Title: 5 Times Javert Expected Valjean To Propose + The One Time He Didn’t
Work ID: 33978106
Author: Javerts_high_heeled_boots
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier, Javert & Éponine Thénardier, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Les Amis de l'ABC Friendship, Javert & Les Amis de l'ABC, Jean Valjean & Les Amis de l'ABC, Minor or Background Relationship(s)
Additional Tags: 5+1 Things, Fluff, Angst, Near Death Experiences, Misunderstandings, Arguing, Parenting, Rain, Anxiety, anxious valjean, Height Differences, Sassy Javert, Romani Javert, Separation Anxiety, Crack, the amis are basically their kids, Family Fluff, Sort Of, impatient Javert, valjean is a dork, Modern Era, Post-Seine
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 6/6

Javert and Valjean had been together for three years. Sure, they didn’t have the most…romantic backstory; but they loved each other nonetheless. They saw each other at their lowest lows and their highest highs. Javert, who had felt so shut off to love, could never imagine that his life would be filled with feelings he only heard in children’s stories and shitty movies. Yet here he was; dating the one man who he every truly loved.

There was only one problem.

They weren’t married.

Javert didn’t mind this a whole lot, he just thought it was a bit…ridiculous. They shared a house (and practically their whole lives, most of which was spent obliviously pining over each other. Even through that, there was never even a proposal. Hell, Jean’s daughter was 22 now and married! Before her own father!

Javert shoved it to the back of his mind. They didn’t need a wedding or a ring to show they were devoted to one another, they were happy just the way things were.


“Gooooood morning!”

The bed dipped under Valjean’s weight, who surprised Javert with a kiss on the cheek.

“Hello there.”

“You gonna sleep all day?”

“I wouldn’t mind it.”

Valjean chuckled, snacking his arms around Javert and pulling him snug to his chest.

“Want me to leave?”

“No, stay with me.”

“Gladly.”

Javert made a sound similar to a purr as he twisted in Valjean’s arms, rolling over to face his lover. Jean was looking down at him with soft eyes.

“What are you thinking about?”

“Just how much I love you, and how happy I am to have you in my life.”

“…Sap.”

“Hey!”

The inspector couldn’t help but laugh at Valjean’s mock offense. Soon enough, he even joined in on the laughter himself. That soft rumble filled Javert’s heart to the point where it felt as if it were going to burst. God, he loves this man…

“Hey,” mused Valjean, bringing Javert back to his senses, “I know you’re tired, but you should know that there’s a surprise for you out in the dining room.

Oh?

“A surprise? What kind?”

“I can’t tell you, then it won’t be a surprise.”

Something about the look in Jean’s eyes made Javert think…Surely it couldn’t be-

“You wanna see?”

“Should I get dressed?”

“If you want, it doesn’t matter much.”

“On a scale from 1 to ‘I have the greatest boyfriend in the entire world’, what do you think I would rate it?”

“Why are you asking so much questions,” chuckled Jean, gently pulling him out of bed. “I think you’ll enjoy it, how about that?”

“Good enough for me.”

Javert let Valjean lead him from the bedroom to the hallway, where he covered the younger’s eyes before escorting him further.

“Three, two one-“

Please be a ring please be a ring please be a ring-
It wasn’t.

“Tada,” announced Valjean triumphantly, standing in front of the extravagant breakfast before them.

Oh.

“Well? What do you think?”

Well, it wasn’t what he was expecting…oh, Jean looked so proud though; Javert couldn’t bare to show any sign of disappointment.

“…I think I have the greatest boyfriend in the entire world,” smiled the Inspector, looking up at his joyous husband. Jean smiled before giving him a big kiss.
Oh well. He liked pancakes anyways.

Javert and Valjean spend some time in the garden

“How much longer? I can’t see anything!”“Just a minute! I’ll say when!”“You and your damn blindfold-surprises.”The sun shone over the backyard, it’s last bit of life covering the flowers as it sunk below the horizon. The air smelled of apples and roses, and the only sound besides Jean shuffling through the grass was the soft chirp of distant birds.Javert barely had time to take his shoes off before Valjean covered his eyes, saying there was a surprise in the backyard. As exhausted as he was, the Inspector agreed to follow his love outside. The summer heat drew him further to sleeps clutches, but nonetheless he pretended to be wide awake for Jean.“Can I open look now?”“Just one second- ok! You can look-“The older gently removed the blindfold, the sudden sunlight disorienting the other for a moment. Once he was able to fully open his eyes, Javert was greeted by a smiling Valjean. In his hands was a large bouquet of flowers from their garden, all his favorites.“Surprise,” mused Jean, bending down to kiss Javert on the forehead. “What do you think?”As much as he tried, the younger couldn’t help but blush. The way the light hit Valjean’s hair made him even more beautiful. He looked like a Roman statue, hand outstretched to the one he loved.“…They’re beautiful,” smiled Javert, once his initial flustered state eased up a bit. Roses, daisies, violets…Valjean handed them to Javert before sitting besides him, eyes never once leaving his flushed face.“…Do you remember our first date?”“Like I’d forget,” grumbled Javert, rolling his eyes.Their first date…hadn’t been the best. It started off great, but ultimately ended with an angry ex, a tossed drink and tears. As chaotic as it was, Javert came home the next day to an extravagant picnic in the backyard. He was greeted with a bouquet of flowers.He blushed every time he thought of it.“I can’t believe that was three years ago.”“Long time ago, no?”Jean smirked.“I knew I loved you that night.”Javert could feel his heart hammering against his chest. Maybe he was just overthinking, but everything seemed just right; the look in Valjean’s eyes, the flowers, the day being similar to that of their first date-“Can I ask you something?”Yes! This was happening! He was going to propose!“Of course,” said Javert, words airy as he tried to contain his excitement. Valjean smiled down at him, lips slightly parted as if he was about to say something.“I- I just…”He opened and closed his mouth, seemingly searching for the right words. Javert leaned a bit closer, eyes and smile wide.“Yes?”“I…umm…I just wanted to-“He was fidgeting with the end of his flannel, now refusing to look at Javert.“Jean? What’s wrong?”“I just…wanted you to know how much I love you.”Oh. Was that it? What was the question?“You can tell me anything, you know,” assured Javert, free hand gently taking one of Jean’s own. The older looked down, a sad smile on his face. He gave the other’s hand a soft squeeze before kissing his forehead again.“I know dear, thank you.”“Wanna say what you were going to?”“…Maybe some other time, I…forgot what it was.”Oh you had to be-“Alright,” whispered Javert, trying not to let a hint of disappointment out. Before he could pull away, Valjean put his other hand around their intertwined ones.“Hey…I love you. I really do. I don’t want you to forget that or feel like I don’t.”“I know,” smirked the Inspector, pressing a soft kiss to Valjean’s chin, laughing from the scratch of the older’s beard. “I love you too.”

Valjean and Javert are interrupted with some good newsWARNING: flashback to child abuse, and mental health struggles due to it

“Jean? Are you- woah!”Before he could finish his sentence, Javert felt a strong pair of arms snatch him up by the waist and spin him around. It was just who he was looking for.“Jean!”Valjean collapsed them both down onto the bed, Javert’s hair falling over his eyes.“Bonjour, mon amour,” laughed Valjean, tucking the stray brown strands behind the grinning Inspector’s ears.“What is wrong with you,” teased Javert, giving his lover a playful shove.“How was your day?”He spoke with a warm and smug look on his face, one hand gently rubbing up and down Javert’s back. The Inspector layed his head against the older’s chest, a soft hum being his only response to the question.“Pretty boring?”“To much paperwork.”“Well, at least your home now.”“Speaking of which,” he purred, lifting his check from Valjean’s chest, “do you have any more ‘surprises’ for me?”“I do, actually,” smirked Jean, rolling over so that he was now on top.“And what would it be?”“How does dinner downtown sound?”He asked the question in between kisses, eventually pulling back and allowing Javert to cradle his face.“Downtown?”“At that new Italian place Cosette mentioned?”“Dinner sounds lovely.”“I knew you’d like it,” mumbled a grinning Valjean, lowering himself down to kiss Javert again. They were occupied for a few minutes before the sound of Jean’s phone went off.“You have to be kiding-“ he lifted himself up once again, Javert still smirking up at him- “You get dressed, I’ll see who it is.”Javert watched as Valjean left the room, digging his phone from his pocket to answer whoever interrupted them.Hm. Dinner.Once again, his mind began to wonder. All these surprises in one week, it all just seemed to perfect- and the night before; he had tried to ask him something! Surely he wasn’t crazy for thinking a proposal would be soon.What if it was tonight?At that, Javert perked up a bit. What if it was tonight…Javert had grown up with married but unhappy parents. While his father came in and out, he never much cared to interact with his family- and when his wife was sick, they fought constantly. Javert was just 13 years old when he heard his father say that he wanted nothing to do with his own son.“That damn bastard isn’t mine!”“Shut up! That is your boy!”“Well I wish he wasn’t!”A moment later, his father stormed out of his moms bedroom. Just before he left the house, he spotted Javert in the corner.“What the hell are you looking at?”“You can’t talk to her like that,” he had squeaked, attempting to hide his fear. Instead of leaving, the man grabbed him by the hair and hoisted him up.“Don’t you EVER tell me what I can’t do!”“Daj! Daj!”“You get the hell away from my boy!”He remembered that night all to well; the screaming, the punches, the tears…What he remembered most was what his mother said to him once his father had left. They were huddled together in her room, the only sound being Javert’s weeping.“Love is corrupt,” she grumbled, staring out at nothing. “No good. A lie.”That scared him.He had never seen a perfect marriage. They all either ended in divorce or affairs. What if his would be like that?The joy drained from his heart as if it were water from a shattered glass. What if his mother was right? What if this would only end in ruin? God, why would Valjean even want to marry him? He was dumb for thinking that. Surely, this was just an ordinary date. Perhaps in a few weeks Jean would confess that he didn’t even love him. What would he do then? What if-“Emile! Emile!”“Jean?”Valjean stood in the doorway, a wide smile on his face and phone in hand. Before Javert could ask who had called, he felt himself being picked up once again and spun.“Oh, she did it!”“Who? What- getting dizzy, getting dizzy!”“Cosette,” laughed Jean, setting Javert down, “she passed at the top of her class! She’s going to be a nurse!”“Oh my god,” gasped Javert, his previous thoughts gone from his mind. A nurse! His sort-of-daughter was going to be a nurse!“She invited us over tonight to celebrate!”“What time?”“She’s home now!”Valjean beamed proudly, tears brimming his eyes. He gave Javert a tight hug before suddenly pulling back.“Wait, what about- crap, I didn’t think this through-““Hey, hey- it doesn’t matter. We can go out to dinner a different time. This is more important.”“Are you sure?”“Yes, Jean! Now come on, she’s waiting!”Valjean stilled for a minute before allowing a smile to grace his face once more.

Javert gets caught in the rain

That’s it. That was enough. He was sick of this.“You!”“Vert? Where-““Is this some kind of joke?!”“What? What are you talking about- get in the car, please!”“I am so sick of these ‘surprises’,” spat Javert, closing the passenger door sharply. Valjean scanned him, a confused look on his face.“Vert, what are y-““I was waiting here,” he started, shivering in his soaked clothes, “for a half hour! What the hell, Jean!”“I told you-““You told me to meet you here because you had another ‘surprise’; was this your surprise? Standing alone in the rain for 30 minutes?! I mean, you didn’t even call or anything!”“What are you talking- I called you ten times! Check your phone!”Angrily, Javert pulled out his phone. He couldn’t wait to prove Valjean wrong.What?Ten missed calls?“…What?”“I called you to tell you there was a change of plans, and you didn’t pick up! Check your messages!”He did. So many texts from Jean, saying it was going to rain and asking if everything was ok, why he wasn’t picking up.Shit…“Oh…god-““Vert-“Javert had hurried his face into his hands, wet hair dripping onto the car seat.“I had my stupid notifications off,” he sobbed, feeling like a fool. Why the hell did he do that?!“God, Jav, I didn’t mean to y-““It’s my fault- I shouldn’t have- I’m so s-“His words were cut off by his own crying. Valjean say their awkwardly, unsure of what to do. After a moment, he rested his hand on the Inspector’s shoulder.“Come on,” he whispered, rubbing his thumb over Javert’s back, “let’s get you home.”Javert nodded.“I’m sorry-““Don’t apologize, you didn’t know. Now come on, you look like you’re freeing.”————————————————————————————-“God, you poor thing.”Valjean fused over his boyfriend, combing out his wet hair. Javert snorted. He was perfectly capable of brushing his own hair, but if Jean wanted to do it, then so be it.“No more surprises, ok?”“I know.”“If you have something to say, just tell me.”“Yes, Inspector.”A smirking Valjean dodged Javert’s playful hit, setting down the brush and hugging him from behind.“Beautiful…”“…Go take a shower yourself,” blushed Javert, “you look freezing too.”“Whatever his majesty says.”“Oh, cut that out.”The older chuckled before heading to leave the bedroom. Before he did, Javert managed to grab hold of his hand.“And…if you want to ask me something, just ask me.”Valjean stared down at him, hints of a smile still on his lips. He took a step closer, taking Javert’s face in his hands.“Can I ask you if you know how much I love you?”“…Very much.”“Correct.”He pressed a soft kiss to the younger’s nose, causing him to chuckle.“Go take your shower, dumbass.”“Whatever you say, Einstein.”“Hey!”

Privacy can be a little hard when you have 13 grown adults who think of you as father figures

“It’s getting late,” mumbled Javert, cheek pressed against Valjean’s shoulder. The white haired man had an arm around him, holding him close in the dim-lit room.The ending music of the movie faded, leaving them in silence. The only sound left was their soft breathing and the occasional cricket from outside.“Hey,” whispered Valjean, “don’t fall asleep down here.”“Then let’s go to bed already.”“We can’t.”“What? Why?”“Because you decided you wanted to have brownies at 11:30, and now we have to wait until they’re done baking.”“Just turn the oven off,” yawned the Inspector, sitting up and rubbing his eyes.“…Look at me.”Javert turned, sleep still hanging heavy in his eyes. Valjean had a soft, admiring expression on his face.“…What are you looking at?”“You, silly,” he laughed, sitting up straight as well.The soft glow from the TV and lamp illuminated Valjean’s features perfectly. Now it was Javert’s turn to be the admirer. Soft white hair, short beard, hooked nose, brown eyes…“…You’re beautiful,” sighed Javert, lazily resting his head against the couch back.“Funny, I was going to say the same about you.”“I bet you to it.”“That’s not very fair.”“I think it’s pretty fair.”Valjean smiled, caressing Javert’s cheek. The smile slowly faded and was replaced with a content but serious face.“…I love you. I really do.”“You tell me that everyday,” teased Javert, pressing a kiss to Jean’s palm.“And I mean it.”He shifted, coming closer to the edge of the couch. What was going on?“…What are you doing, Jean?”“I…I love you. I’ve never loved anyone like this before.”“Jean?”“I should have asked you this a long time ago, and I know we said no more surprises, but I- I can’t wait any longer.”Javert watched as Valjean kneeled in front of him, heart hammering. Was this-?“Emile Javert, will you-“Before he could finish, the front door opened, startling them both.“What the h-““Oh, you’re home.”It was Bahorel.“Bahorel,” yelled Valjean, genuine anger in his voice, “what the hell are you doing here?!”“I got locked out of my dorm.”“So you come here unannounced?!”“You said if I ever needed I could come h-““At a reasonable time!”“Please stop yelling,” mumbled Javert, covering his ears. You had to be kidding.“Look, if you want I’ll leave-““No, it’s- I just wish you called or something,” sighed Valjean, pinching the bridge of his nose in frustration. God, he was such a dad to his daughter’s friends.Bahorel looked the couple up and down before sudden realization hit him. He turned to Valjean.“Shit, man- I totally forgo-““Shut up,” yelled Valjean, frantically waving his hands, “shut up-““What the hell are you two doing,” asked Javert, more confused than frustrated at this point. Did Bahorel know something?“Nothing,” squeaked Valjean, taking Bahorel by the shoulder and leading him into the kitchen. Javert didn’t managed to pick up on what they were talking about as they walked away, but whatever it was made him mad for some reason.What the hell was going on?First Jean was to scared to ask, then when he was just about to he was interrupted, now he was talking to Bahorel as if he was in on something. This whole thing was starting to become infuriating. Why couldn’t he just get an answer; was Valjean going to propose or not?!He didn’t get the answer to that question that night. Or the next night. Or the next one. Not even a week later did he have an answer.

Howdy! Sorry about the wait, I’ve been going through some writers block. I mean this whole thing was basically written during writers block but still.

“Are you insane?!”Javert rubbed the soot from his eyes. It was Valjean.“You!”“What is wrong with you?!“What’s wrong with me,” yelled the inspector, speed-walking towards the white haired man. “What’s wrong with me?!”“Are you trying to get yourself killed?!”“Give me a break!”“Why the hell would you do that?!”Ok, maybe he didn’t make the best decision; he probably should have left running into a burning house to check for people up to the firefighters- but there was no way he could just stand by as that poor mother screamed for her baby.Getting calls for arson wasn’t very common, and it wasn’t one that Javert would want to experience again.“Why are you even here,” he spat, finally standing firm in-front of Jean. “What prompted you to drive your ass all the way down here just to yell at me?”“Because I’m your boyfriend!”Oh, here they go.Javert threw his hands up in the air- mostly due to a lack of response, but mainly to make it clear that he was not shutting this argument down any time soon.“You could have died!”“Whatever!”“Are you being serious right now?!”“You know, maybe you should just go home. Work on another one of your ‘surprises’!”Valjean gawked at him, eyes wide and jaw hanging.“You’re insane!”“I’m insane?”Jean watched as Javert shoved off a paramedic attempting to check him for injuries.“Who the hell runs into a burning building,” he exclaimed.“It’s my job,” hissed Javert, waving away yet another EMT.“No it’s not!”Alright, that was true.As much as his boyfriend tried to get his attention, Javert ignored him. This was not the time or place to have this fight.“Do you have any idea what could have happened to you,” yelled Valjean, clearly not taking a hint. “Any at all? What if you got stuck in there, huh? What would I have done?! Do you- have you got any clue how I would have felt?! You could’ve gotten hurt, or killed, or- damn it!”Javert spun around, throwing his hands up in the air once again. He could feel his cheeks burning a dark red.“Are you done?”“No! No, no I’m not done! You have no regard for your life!”Not this. They had this talk at least once a month.“You put yourself in situations without thinking- you never think! You always charge right into danger! It’s infuriated me!”“Do you have anything good to say about me then?!”He could feel his heart breaking. Maybe Jean was right, and maybe he was as stupid as he said. All he wanted was to curl into a ball and die.“Yes! I love you! I’m in love with you!”Valjean’s yelling had already gained the attention of a few people besides his target, but now everyone at the scene was staring, including Javert.“I have been from the moment I met you,” he continued, shaking his hands in front of him dramatically. “I’m crazy in love with you! You’re the best thing to happen to me, and the thought of losing you is terri- it’s- I can’t even begin to explain! And you’re so good to me, and you’re beautiful and amazing and I just WISH you could see yourself through my eyes because maybe then you’d see why I care so much! And I- I know this is the worst possible time to ask this, but if I don’t ask soon, I’ll go mad-“The older hesitated before shaking his head and getting down on one knee, digging out a small ring box from his pocket.“Oh my god…”“Emile Javert, I can’t keep this from you anymore. You’re my life, my light- and I need to…I need to know I-if…Emile Javert, will you marry me?”“Are you stupid,” cried Javert, wiping the tears from his ash covered face. Valjean froze, heart dropping.He barely even got to ask what Javert meant by that before the inspector threw himself at him, arms wrapping around his neck in a tight embrace, their lips crashing. Thankfully, Jean managed to catch him before they both hit the ground.“Yes! I will!”Oh…oh thank god. Thank god. Valjean had nearly passed out from the first reaction.He laughed joyful, snaking his own arms around Javert’s waist and hoisting him off the ground, bringing him down to a kiss once again. The inspector’s hair had fallen from its bun, creating a curtain type formation over their faces. They didn’t care.“I love you-““I love you!”After another moment of gleeful kissing, Valjean set his boyfriend- no, fiancé -back down. He took his face into his hands, brushing off ash gently with his thumb.“How did you know I w-““Chabouillet called me.”Javert nodded. Of course he had.“Is this what you were trying t-““All week.”“Oh my god.”He knew it.The happy moment was interrupted by one brave EMT who dared attempted to check the stubborn inspector for injuries.“No- stop it,” hissed Javert, slapping the young man’s hand away. Valjean shook his head.“Go, let them make sure you’re ok.”“I’m fine-““Just go, you ass.”Fair enough. If Jean said to go, he would.Javert didn’t care about the lecture he would get from Chabouillet at the hospital. He didn’t care that he would most likely have to get stitches for that one cut on his leg that he managed to hide from Valjean. All the trouble he’d have to deal with didn’t matter to him. He’d gotten what he wanted at last.Engaged.