Title: alone, unknown, sorrowed
Work ID: 19116589
Author: iberiandoctor (jehane)', 'Sir_Bedevere
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Identity Issues, Barricade Day, Emotional Hurt/Comfort, Emotional Baggage, Angst with a Happy Ending
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 5/7


14th June 1832


He’d missed his dinner almost every evening for a week, and Richard was determined that today he would escape Madame Martin’s wrath, and the bread and cheese that was the punishment for daring to commit such a crime. 

The weather had improved, over the past few days, warming up into what was to be expected of June, and people lingered in the streets on their way home from their work. Richard wove between them and listened to their chatter. It was a remarkable thing that the city, so recently the scene of such horror and pointless bloodshed, had returned so quickly to normal. Aside from his workload, finally decreasing, there was almost nothing to make Richard believe the whole sorry affair had even happened. How soon the revolution came about full circle. 

Richard hurried up the street as the clock on the church began to chime. He was going to make it, and eat a real dinner for the first time since it happened. Sweat beaded on his brow, and he regretted wearing his heavy jacket, but his summer one had been so soaked in sweat the last few days that he’d been compelled to wash it just to be able to abide his own company. Not that his charges at the morgue complained about the smell. 

Piers was sitting on the doorstep sunning himself as Richard leapt up the steps, and he grinned good-naturedly, leaning to the side so that Richard could get past him. 

“Beef tonight,” he said, in his careful French. “You chose a good night to be on time.”

“Anything for Madame’s beef.”

Richard was the first in his seat at the table, and Madame Martin even graced him with a smile for his efforts. He’d forced a comb through his hair and changed his shirt – he didn’t want to give her a reason to dismiss him – and coming back down the stairs, he had passed Henning’s bedroom. The door was open, and Henning was sat at his desk. André was sprawled on the bed, and they were speaking in low voices. Henning was poring over something as they talked, and Richard recognised even from a distance the inflammatory student pamphlet that Henning had brought to him for translation a few weeks before. Why on earth the man still had it, Richard did not know, and why he should be discussing it with André was an even larger mystery. But Richard was hungry, faint almost with it, and he did nothing more than nod at André as he went past the door, and watch them as they came into dinner a few moments after he did. Henning seem distressed, as he had been every time Richard saw him since the barricades had gone up, and André was inscrutable as ever. Whatever they were up to, Richard wanted no part in it. 

The meal passed pleasantly enough. Richard ate voraciously, and Madame allowed him second helpings, a rare treat that surely indicated he had been forgiven for his sins. He suspected that Piers or Monsieur Barnard had spoken for him, explained to her the nature of his work and why he was so busy at this particular time, for she had never been so magnanimous to him before. Still, whatever had happened, he was grateful for it, and when he retired to the sitting room with Henning and André, Richard felt lighter and more well in himself than he had in days. 

They did not bring up the pamphlet, and neither did he, for he’d had enough of the revolution. In the evening sun, with a good dinner in his stomach, the guilt of being living still seemed a little further away.

So it was a mistake to pick up the newspaper, and to peruse it whilst half listening to André’s stories about his day in the corridors of the hospital. Of them all, he never failed to have an anecdote or two that was almost beyond belief – the things people did to themselves, the things they did to one another were a horror and a delight in equal measure. And André was a great storyteller – Henning at least could be counted upon to hang on his every word. 

Henning was in fact laughing, a rare sound – and a pleasant one – when Richard saw the notice in the paper. All of his hard won good humour seemed to drain from him, and he slumped back in his chair as though it had been the only force keeping him upright. 

“What’s the matter with you?” André broke off his story to peer at Richard’s face. “You’re deathly pale. Read a story that doesn’t agree with you?”

“No,” Richard said faintly, reading the notice once more. “I am going to a funeral, it seems.”

Yes, we ARE rocking up one year after we started this, on Barricade Day Eve 2020, to finish the story off this time. 

Apologies for the tiny little gap in posting ;)

It began to rain just after ten of the clock, and Richard was glad that he had thought to borrow André’s umbrella. He did not have one of his own since the storms of the previous autumn had smashed it to pieces, and it was a luxury he could scarce afford to replace. Usually he did not mind the rain anyway, but on this occasion he wished to look respectable. 

It was a funny thing, but he was nervous. Although his job involved working with the dead, he had attended very few actual funerals. He had vague memory of his grandfather’s, when he was very young, and that of an aunt who had passed more recently, but he had been relatively unscathed in his life by death. And he had never attended a funeral where the deceased’s demise had not been expected well beforehand.

The graveyard at Père Lachaise was very large and, seemingly, very busy. As Richard entered the huge iron gates, he passed several small groups of mourners already leaving even at that early hour. None of them wept; rather they seemed glad to be getting out of the rain. He could hardly blame them for that and besides, it was not his place to pass judgement on how people mourned their dead. He’d seen many reactions over the years, when the bereaved came to identify their loved ones, from cold, dry eyed acceptance to passionate weeping, and all in between. Some of the most composed people were the ones who had lost the most. So he would not judge.

But none of them, not even distraught mothers of little children, had ever moved him as much as Monsieur Fauchelevent on the morning he came to visit Inspector Javert. Something about the old man’s grief had just stuck with him, and so he was here on his day off at the funeral of a man he only knew through that grief. 

Richard did not know the man the inspector had been, but he did know he was at least worthy of one man’s love. Curiosity was truly what had brought him here, but he hoped his presence might be welcomed too. 

As he reached the first fork in the path, Richard realised that the graveyard was much larger than he had thought, and he had no real notion of where he was supposed to go. As he looked about him for some clue, a uniformed policeman emerged from the grey mist of rain behind him, hat pulled down low over his brow. 

“Excuse me, officer,” Richard said. “Are you here for Inspector Javert?”

The man stopped and tipped his hat back, eying Richard with no small amount of distrust. He was young, almost as young as Richard himself, but his face was tired.

“Yes,” he said eventually. “I am.”

“Do you mind if I follow you? I don’t know where to go.”

Another moment of silence, and then the man seemed to reach some sort of conclusion. He stepped closer and drew himself up to his full height. 

“Are you a journalist?”

By instinct, Richard stepped back and shook his head.

“No. Just - a friend.”

“Forgive me, monsieur,” the policeman said, after yet another pause. “The inspector, as I’m sure you know, had few friends. But there are those far too interested in how he came to die, and we will not have his name sullied more than it already has been.”

“Of course, I understand your concern. I can assure you that I am here only for the same reason that you are.”

“In that case, allow me to escort you, monsieur, to the service,” the policeman said, fixing his hat back down over his brow.

The policeman struck off down the hill, shoulders hunched. Richard followed more slowly, at a respectful distance. The man was clearly defensive, and he could hardly blame him for such a thing. Richard, of course, knew precisely why members of the press should be interested in the demise of Inspector Javert. There has been precious little in the newspapers that he had seen; just a very short report noting the death, but not the cause, and then the announcement of the funeral. The unfortunate man’s privacy was, so far, defended honourably. 

The speculation, should the press find out how the inspector died, would surely be rife - a curiosity in a city that was barely beginning to recover from the events of the last month. And speculation would, perhaps, lead to Monsieur Fauchelevent - whoever he had been to the inspector. So deep in thought he was that he almost ran into his new companion, who had stopped to allow him to catch up. Speculation indeed. An easy thing to fall into. 

“I beg your pardon,” Richard said. “Would you care to share my umbrella?”

The policeman nodded. He was slight enough that there was room for the two of them, comfortably. 

“Forgive me my rudeness, monsieur,” the man said. “I did not make my introduction. I am Sergeant François Bernard.”

“Richard Hugo,” he replied, offering his hand. “You knew the inspector well?”

“I did,” Bernard replied, beginning to walk more slowly. “I worked for him since I was a young officer. Eight years or so, I suppose.”

“A long time.”

“Yes.”

When no question was forthcoming, Richard offered the answer anyway. 

“I knew him through a mutual friend of ours, Monsieur Fauchelevent. Perhaps you know him?”

Bernard shook his head. 

“I do not. No one knew the inspector well, outside of the station. There are many who would believe he was incapable of having a friend at all.”

“But not you?”

“I think - Inspector Javert was a hard man to please. He asked for perfection from every person that he worked with, and if he did not get it - well, he was not afraid to make it known.”

Despite his words, Richard could see the hint of a smile on Bernard’s lips. 

“But he was fair. He punished no one more severely than himself. I do not see why he could not have a friend or two, so long as they could tolerate perfection. I know he liked to argue. There is no reason he could not have done that with a friend.”

Richard nodded. 

“Beside, Monsieur Hugo,” Bernard said. “You are here. And you name another as a friend too. I was right all along.”

“Indeed. I am certain Fauchelevent will be here today.”

And he was correct. At the far end of the graveyard, furthest from the gates, was a large open space. The stones here were small, and seemingly neglected. Long grass grew over them, and ivy overwhelmed the fence till it was just a wall of tangled green. 

“Doesn’t seem right,” Bernard mumbled. “A proud man laid here.”

A fresh grave had been dug near to a tree that provided the only colour in the desolate section. The tree had shed many of its pink blossoms, but some stubborn clusters remained. A reminder that it was, in fact, still summer here. 

A handful of uniformed officers was already gathered at the side of the grave, and, standing a little apart from them, was an old, white-haired man. Richard knew it was Monsieur Fauchelevent from the curve of his shoulder, although he did not seem as large as he had done on that early June morning. 

There was no else there, beside the priest, and the men waiting at a respectful distance to fill in the grave. 

Bernard went to join his colleagues, and Richard edged closer to the old man. He did not expect to be recognised, but he had to make it seem to Bernard at least that he was supposed to be here. 

“A poor turnout,” he said softly, by way of a greeting. “Would you like to share my umbrella, monsieur?”

Fauchelevent knew him immediately. His eyes were on the policemen for the most part, but when he glanced at Richard’s face, there was recognition there. He did not relax, but he did nod. Richard stepped forwards and covered him with the umbrella. 

“Inspector Javert had few friends,” Fauchelevent said softly. “He was not a man for frivolity.”

“I suppose he would be glad that you are here then, monsieur,” Richard said. “Just as he would be that you visited him before.”

Fauchelevent did not reply, but there was a small puff of air from his nose, and when Richard glanced at him, his eyes were shut tight. 

“I am sorry, monsieur. I should not presume to -”

“You were very kind to me, before,” the old man said. “I am certain I took advantage of you. But I ask you now, please. Do not speak of it. I cannot - please.”

“Of course,” Richard said, a kernel of guilt blooming in his chest. Whatever had been between the inspector and Fauchelevent was a secret thing. Personal and precious. He should not have come here to witness an old man’s grief. The least he could do was to shut his mouth and be respectful. 

As the distant sound of the bells ringing their eleven o’clock peal, the priest began. 

The service was short and impersonal. As though the inspector was an unknown victim, a starved beggar found in the streets and given a pauper’s funeral. It did not seem fair. Richard had searched out old newspaper stories - and there had been several - tales of Inspector Javert’s dogged and efficient work in the Paris police. That it should all end like this, sullied and without honour, was a tragic thing indeed. 

Beside him, the old man trembled his way through the service. He could simply have been cold and he did indeed feel that way, his hand icy where it brushed against Richard's beneath the umbrella. But Richard was sure there was some oppressed emotion as well. He’d seen the tears before, after all. He knew that they were there. 

When the service ended, with little ceremony, only Richard, Monsieur Fauchelevent and Sergeant Bernard stayed to watch the cold, lonely grave filled.

Update by Jay, beta by Beds. Content warning in this chapter for graveyards, and things that happen there.

It had been an unsettling day, and Richard was not sorry it was over. 

After the funeral ended that morning, there had been no fiacres to be had in the bad weather, and so he had to make his way home on foot from Père Lachaise, the rain soaking through his good shoes and hat. He thought André’s umbrella might be permanently bent out of shape.

He had, of course, first offered to see Monsieur Fauchelevent home. The old man had looked even more drained by the end of the ceremony; there were new shadows under his eyes, and lines in his face that had not been there when the day began. But he brushed off Richard’s concern, as Richard had thought he might.

“It is kind of you, Monsieur. But there is no need to trouble yourself with me.”

Richard said, “Sir, it’s no trouble at all. Only that I thought you might want to continue to shelter under this umbrella while we find a fiacre for you. This is not a day to be out on the streets.”

The white-haired man’s sad countenance softened with an almost-smile. Richard could almost imagine how Fauchelevent might have looked in his prime. “I have suffered worse hardships. Good day.”

Fauchelevent’s handshake was perfunctory, almost weak. Then he headed off into the rain, his still-handsome head bowed low, preoccupied with his private grief.

Surprisingly, Sergeant Bernard had also stayed to say goodbye to Richard. His handshake was firm and vigorous. “I need to get back to the station-house,” he said. “It was good of you to come, Monsieur Hugo. You didn’t have to do that.”

“I wanted to be here,” Richard began; the words The inspector deserved better were on his tongue, and he only stopped them at the last moment.

Bernard nodded. “I think the inspector would have appreciated it.” 

He paused, his brow furling, before adding, “Actually, he might not have – he was never one for ceremony, or for making a fuss, especially not over himself. But I appreciate it, anyway. If you ever have need of me, come look for me at the station-house on Rue de Pontoise.” 

He touched the brim of his policeman’s hat, and then walked rapidly off down the path in the direction of the main road.

Richard kicked himself for not making a similar offer of the umbrella to Bernard. Then he wondered why he was chastising himself, for obviously the sergeant would have turned him down, in the same way as Fauchelevent had. Alone in the rain, he, too, set off toward his home.

When he finally arrived back at his lodgings, Madame complained about him trailing puddles into the house, and sent him upstairs to change his clothes before he caught his death of cold. 

Richard didn’t really feel up to facing André or Henning, or any of the others at dinner. It wasn’t difficult to persuade Madame that he had in fact taken a chill, and to ask for her to send a tray up to his room. 

After he had finished eating, Richard tried to catch up on his reading, but for some reason he found it difficult to concentrate. His mind kept circling back to the events of the day: to the still, quiet cemetery in the rain, to the inspector’s lonely grave, to the even lonelier man who had mourned him.

Finally, he gave the reading up as a bad job, and went to bed.

 




That night, Richard returned to Père Lachaise. 

This time, he passed under her iron gates and walked her cobbled paths in thick darkness. The sprawling city of graves and sepulchres looked ghostly in the moonlight, a place inhabited by spirits of the dead who had found their final resting place beneath the earth.

Once more he followed the twists and turns of the pathways to the far end of the graveyard, to the large open space where neglected moss-covered stones sank into the overgrown grass, where the wild ivy seemed to be choking the fence alongside. 

Night had covered the pink-blossomed tree, dressing it in wraithlike hues. Its otherworldly branches reached down towards the grave that had only this morning been filled, and the new gravestone put in place.

As silently as a wraith himself, Richard drew closer to the tree. 

As the moonlight fell upon the gravestone, it also fell upon the outline of a man that reclined upon the freshly-dug ground before the stone.

At first Richard thought this could be no living man – an unhappy spirit, perhaps, come to pass the time with the newly dead? – so frail-seeming and lifeless and unmoving it was. Then the spirit raised its handsome white head, and with a terrible shock Richard found himself gazing upon the grieving, tear-stained face of Ultime Fauchelevent.

“I see you,” Fauchelevent said, in a shaking voice.

Richard took a step back, and tried to stammer out something, only to realise he could not utter a word. He was mute; whatever hand or purpose had brought him to this place on this night had not seen fit to permit him to speak – or to touch anything, either, as he discovered when he put his hand out to steady himself against the trunk of the tree and found himself as insubstantial as if he were a ghost.

“I see you,” Fauchelevent repeated. “Why will you not speak with me?”

Richard opened and closed his mouth mutely, as powerless to help the old man now as he had been at the funeral that morning. 

Then out of the darkness came a terrible voice that he had never heard in life, and Richard realised Fauchelevent had not been addressing him.

“You know why, Jean Valjean,” said that voice. It was colder than the grave; a fitting comparison, since it seemed that was the place from which it had come.

A tall, towering figure strode out of the darkness between tree and gravestone to stand in front of Fauchelevent. It was wearing a tall hat, and an unseasonal woollen greatcoat; in one hand it clutched a long cane. It paused in the moonlight, and Richard recognised the rigid, uncompromising features of the drowned inspector who had not a week ago been laid upon his table, and not a day ago been committed into this ground.

Luckily, this apparition appeared as how the inspector must have looked in life; frowning and fierce and terrifying in itself, of course, but at least not the pale, exposed corpse that Richard had last seen in its final extremity.

The man Richard knew as Fauchelevent rose to his knees in the dirt. Quietly, he said, “I’m not sure I understand. Why don’t you explain it to me?”

Javert made an impatient gesture with the cane. “For the love of God, can you not see? I have nothing more to say to you!”

Fauchelevent was silent, and finally the inspector asked, in equally frustrated tones, “Why did you come here, Valjean? Will I never be rid of you? You know what I did, and still it seems I cannot escape you.”

Fauchelevent – whom the inspector had addressed by the name of Valjean – flinched at this, as if the words hurt him. Looking away, addressing the ground beneath him, he muttered, “Why … why did you do it? I thought we understood each other.”

The inspector burst into mocking laughter. “What, you thought we understood each other, because I allowed you to touch me, like any common whore would? Because I let you give me relief in an alleyway outside the Rue de Mondetour? Do you think my loyalty could be bought so cheaply? I would rather die.” He looked thoughtful. “In fact, as you see, that was the path I chose … Strange how things seem not to have turned out as anyone would have expected.”

Richard didn’t know what had transpired between the two men in the alley being referred to, but a prickling discomfort crawled up his neck all the same. He desperately wished he was elsewhere, for it seemed a dreadful invasion of privacy to witness a discussion that was obviously so intimate, and that had brought so much pain to the both of them. But the strange force that had brought him here continued to hold him fast in the shadow of the flowering tree. 

Slowly, painfully, the white-haired man said, "I had not meant to buy your favours, Javert. I touched you to give you something you wanted, something that the mayor couldn’t have in Montreuil, but that I could finally give when we stood unmasked to each other."

"Yes, yes, you did say all that. I was there, remember? The man of mercy, the good man, finally deigning to end a poor policeman’s years of obsession. Just like putting a dog in heat out of its misery, isn’t that right?” 

These were awful, cruel words, but Richard could hear how the self-loathing dripped from them; it was obvious even to him that Javert’s vitriol was not in fact directed at the man he called Jean Valjean. 

It must be clear to Valjean as well, for he spoke with a gentleness no man so accused could have mustered. He said, finally raising his eyes to meet Javert’s gaze, “It wasn’t mercy. I told you that as well. It was something I wanted, as much as you did.”

“More mercy? I would not take such lies from you, then or now.” The spectral image of Javert got down on his knees as well, all the better to stare into Valjean’s face. His ghostly hands opened and closed restlessly, as if they could still bodily grasp hold of Valjean’s shoulders; a sign of the obsession that he had just derided. “How could you ever have wanted this? You know what I did; you know what I was!”

Valjean looked into Javert’s face. His own expression was conflicted – full of grief, and a strange tenderness.

“Not mercy, and not lies, either. You were the only person in this life who truly knew me. Cosette tells herself she loves her father, but she doesn’t know who that father truly is. It’s different with you. You always knew I was a criminal. I may have known what you were, but the same was true for you as well.” He took a deep breath. “And what of my knowing what you had done? I never thought to blame you for doing your duty. It was something I admired about you from the start.”

Javert was silent for a long while, staring into Valjean’s face as if he could read the lie in its sorrowful lines. Richard knew it wasn’t a lie, of course; he had seen the real tears the man had shed over the inspector’s corpse and then later at Javert’s graveside, the kind of grief that could only have come from love.

Finally, Javert said, “You are a strange man, Valjean, to admire the thing that could have killed you. That still might, if you discount it.” He shook his spectral head. “Why do you think yourself undeserving of your daughter’s love?”

Valjean smiled sadly. “Inspector, I could ask you the same question.”

“Indeed! Indeed.” The inspector nodded again, acknowledging the point. Then, “But I had another reason. You let me go free. I could not remain myself and withhold from your arrest; as long as I lived, you would never be safe… So I did what I did.”

He lifted his hand, and Richard could almost see it as it had been when the inspector had been pulled from the river – blue and mottled, dripping wet from the bottom of the Seine.

Valjean lifted his own hand, reaching out with fingers that were suddenly trembling.

“You did it for me?” His voice was a whisper.

Javert barked out another laugh. “Not just for you. Did I want to live in a world filled with such manifest unreasonableness, where a policeman might admire a criminal, and the converse? Best to make an end of things, and enquire of God.”

Valjean said, slowly, “You are strange, as well, to have had so much distrust of God and rejection of His gifts. And yet, in your extremity, I see something of myself.”

The moonlight blurred the lines in their faces, as if it had the power to turn back time, and return them both to the young men they had been when they had first met each other, before they had set foot on this path that had led to the death of at least one of them.

“I have very little I can say to this,” Javert said, after a while. “I am no longer living; you have buried me today. How I feel about you is no longer relevant. Your feelings for me, however, are quite another matter.”

He opened his hand. Richard could see the ghost of the rosary that nestled in its transparent fingers

“I died so you might live, Valjean. For the love of God, live! For your child, if not for me.”

Valjean murmured, “I don’t know if I can,” and Richard’s heart bled for him; it bled for both of them.

The ghost made a scoffing noise. “Well, that’s for you to figure out. If I see you again, here, and too soon, I will be rather disappointed.”

He pressed the rosary into Valjean’s palm, and closed the fingers around it, as if he had become substantial for one moment. Then he lifted the hand to his transparent lips.

Richard’s mind was reeling. He didn’t understand most of what the men had been speaking about; he had no clue as to the long history of their pain. But in that moment he understood that, in his own way, the inspector had loved as well as been loved.

The inspector released Valjean and rose from the ground. Standing tall and implacable, he put a finger to his hat; Richard couldn’t remember where he’d last seen the gesture before.

Valjean scrambled to his feet, reaching out to him. “Javert, wait,” he said, but the inspector took a step backwards, and then another, and then he vanished into the darkness from which he had come. 

“Wait!” Valjean called again; this time, Richard felt the cry dissolve the invisible bonds that held him to this place and this man. 

He felt himself falling sideways and upwards, drawn away through space and distance, into the stars and the night and the cold intervals between moments, until he was back in his bed once again.

Richard blinked as the cold grey morning dawned across his room. He could not remember the dream he had had. Only bittersweet remnants lingered in his mind, like the aftertaste of love and loss that had drifted too soon out of reach.

Happy Barricade Day, y'all. 

Yes, this story started in 2019. Yes, it is now 2021. Blame me (Beds) entirely for this, and rejoice that my dear Doc reminded me we should probably finish it ;)

He was the first down to breakfast. Madame was pleased with his fortitude, for shaking off the chill of the previous evening, and she gave him extra cream in his coffee as a reward. Richard thanked her, his mind only half on the meal laid out before him; he was hungry, and ate voraciously, but he was trying to grasp at the threads of the dream too. The feeling he had woken with, the strange melancholy ache in his heart, was still there, settled in his chest like a small animal, curling up to sleep. And there was just one image that swam in and out of his mind’s eye, as though he were seeing it below the water.

The old man. Fauchelevent.

And there was one name repeating in Richard’s ear, as though a ghost were at his elbow, chanting it over and over again. 

Jean Valjean. 

He could not remember why the name was important, or who it belonged to. He could not remember why the old man was in his dream. 

Madame was watching him as he ate; even as the others began to drift in, she did not let her thoughtful gaze wander from Richard for very long. But he could not blame her for thinking his behaviour odd, because it was. The events of the past few weeks were troubling him deeply, and he knew he had been more pensive, more taciturn than he usually was. Henning had noticed it too, he was sure, and even Andre, who never noticed much at all if it did not concern him, had on occasion seemed to muse over Richard’s behaviour. 

Richard did not know why the old man was affecting him so much, why the plight of one disturbed police inspector could not be laid to rest. After all, Javert had been one body among many in the days after the failed revolution, and he not even the most tragic of them; Richard had tended also to a little boy, no older than ten years old, who proudly wore the rosette of rebellion upon his chest. That boy had been shot three times. Three bullets, for a body so small. That was a tragedy, if there was to be one at all. But truthfully, Richard had not thought much of that child since the day he was turned over to the church for a pauper’s burial. 

Perhaps it was because Fauchelevent had laid himself bare, apparently untroubled that the young man should know the truth of him: that he had been in love with the dead man on Richard’s table. It was so shockingly intimate that it was no wonder Richard could not get him or the inspector from his mind.

He left the breakfast table and went back to his room. It was a Saturday, and he had no plans for the weekend ahead, except to go and see about having his shoes mended. The thought of two long days with only his unsettling thoughts for company was too much to bear, but neither could he be contented to spend the weekend in the sitting room with only his fellow tenants to distract him. 

Instead, he finished dressing and packed his shoes into a box. It seemed as though it would be a warm day, and he did not put on his coat. Perhaps that was rash – the weather had been unpredictable – but the idea of being confined in the coat seemed rather too much on that morning. 

He was down the stairs and out of the door before anyone else had even left the breakfast table. 

He hurried along to the cobbler on Rue des Petit-Champs and delivered his shoes into the hands of a young girl who was perched on a stool behind the high counter. He did not look her in the eye; he was rather ashamed to do so, having only that morning remembered the little boy with the bullets peppered in his body. He feared that he would see the boy’s face, grey and pale, with a delicate bruise at the temple, if he were to look at another child too closely. 

It was barely half past nine when he stepped back out into the sunlight, and for a perplexing moment he did not know where he was going to go. There was always the option of coffee, of course, and he was halfway towards a place that he knew, further down the same road, when he stopped again. A woman walking behind him almost lost her balance as she bumped into him and although Richard put out a hand to apologise, to help her regain herself, she shook her head and did not touch him. Instead, she walked away, muttering under her breath, her basket clutched tightly in her hand as though Richard was going to run and take it from her when her back was turned. 

He retreated across the pavement to lean against the wall of a butcher’s shop, and bit at his thumbnail – an old nervous habit, resurfaced in these trying days. His chest still ached and his jaw was tight; he did not feel at all himself. Fauchelevent’s face – not the one from the dream, but the exhausted and heartbroken old man from the funeral – was on his mind still, and that name, Jean Valjean, still echoed in his ears. 

For a strange moment, he felt as though there were indeed a presence at his side and he turned, quickly, to look down the alley directly to his right. There was no one there, but it had felt as though a body was pressed against him, a hand tightening around his arm. 

Richard shook his head. He was driving himself mad. 

He needed – he needed to think. He needed, somehow, to lay these men aside. 

With a final glance around him, to be sure that there was no one following him, he set off again, this time in the opposite direction. 

The only way to put this right was to find some answers. 

The station-house on the Rue de Pontoise was an old building, even by Paris standards, and smaller than he would have imagined. Richard had visited police stations before, usually in the line of his work, but they were much grander. This one seemed like an afterthought, tucked away almost on the edge of Saint Michel.

The policeman at the desk was unimpressed when Richard approached him asking for Sergeant Bernard, saying the man was indeed working that day but was presently out. He was even less impressed when Richard said he would wait, and settled himself on one of the three chairs set to the side of the desk in a sort of waiting area. 

“He may be gone for several hours, monsieur,” the policeman said, as though Richard’s presence was an inconvenience to him.

“No matter. I don’t have any pressing engagements.”

As it turned out, Bernard was not long in returning to the station. Richard made eye contact with him as soon as he walked in the door, and although Bernard looked curious, he did not blanch at Richard’s presence, which was an encouraging sign. 

“Good morning, monsieur. When I told you that you could find me here, I was not expecting it to be so soon.”

“Forgive me, sergeant, but I have some questions to ask of you. If it is not too much trouble.”

The desk officer scowled at Richard as Bernard jerked his head in affirmation, and led him past the desk and into the house itself. 

“Forgive Martin his rudeness,” Bernard said in a low voice. “He is very unimpressed with anyone he thinks may be a student at the moment.”

Richard nodded but did not speak, for now he was here, he felt very foolish. But the prickling skin at the back of his neck, the feeling that he was being followed, urged him onwards, and as soon as he was at Bernard’s desk, he began to speak. 

“You will think this a strange request, but I need to find Monsieur Fauchelevent. I do not know where to begin.”

Bernard’s eyes narrowed, and he bit at his bottom lip. 

“I thought the two of you were friends? Why do you not know his whereabouts? His address.”

“I’m afraid I was a little reticent when I spoke to you yesterday,” Richard said. “We are friends, but our acquaintance was through Inspector Javert, not the other way around. I have never had need to visit Fauchelevent at his own home, and I did not think to ask for his address yesterday.”

Bernard cleared his throat. There was a twitch in his jaw as he considered Richard’s face, and Richard felt himself shrinking beneath the scrutiny. Bernard was a good man – that he could tell – and he had genuinely cared for the inspector. His determination to defend him when he thought Richard was a journalist made that clear enough. 

“I do not know much about Monsieur Fauchelevent,” he began eventually, slowly as though unwilling to prise the information from himself. “But I have seen him, out distributing alms in the slums. And the church there – Saint-Jacques-du-Haut-Pas– would be as good a place as any for you to ask after him.”

Richard smiled, the first time he could remember smiling in days. 

“Thank you, sergeant. Your kindness will not be forgotten.”

Bernard made that same noise in his throat, and stood to shake the hand that Richard offered him. He did not let go, holding it tightly and drawing Richard in. 

“I do not know the nature of your friendship with the inspector, or how the two of you know this Fauchelevent,” he said in a low voice. “But I do think it very strange, monsieur, and your behaviour stranger still. Please do not make me regret telling you where to find the old man.”

Richard flushed, but the hand squeezing his own was just loose enough that he knew he was only being cautioned and not threatened. Not as such, anyway. 

“I assure you, sergeant, there is nothing to be concerned about.” 

In the end, finding Fauchelevent was not such a difficult task. As Richard hurried along to Saint-Jacques-du-Haut-Pas, intent on his mission now that he knew what it was, he felt as though that unknown presence was with him, falling into step. It gave him a fortitude that he had not expected. He was doing the right thing. Of that he was sure.

The priest, remarkably young, was in his church when Richard arrived and asked after the old man. The priest, his face hiding nothing, looked at Richard curiously. 

“Why should you need to find our good Fauchelevent?” he asked. “Surely a friend would know where he lived already?”

Where Richard before might have shrunk under the scrutiny, this time he held the man’s gaze and repeated his story; how he only knew Fauchelevent through Javert, so tragically dead just these two weeks past, how he wished to be a comfort to the old man. In many ways, nothing Richard had told Bernard or this priest was a lie; it was only how they chose to interpret what he said that made it a slight untruth.

He must have appeared trustworthy enough, for the priest finally nodded and told him Fauchelevent’s address. As Richard was leaving, the priest called after him. 

“Monsieur, could you tell our friend that we have missed him of late?” 

“You haven’t seen him?”

“Not for almost three weeks now. And no word either, which is strange for him. Tell him we are thinking of him.”

“I will,” Richard said, and turned on his heel. No. 55, Rue Plumet was some distance away, though if he set off now he would be there before lunchtime, or else he might be obliged to wait for the afternoon before he could visit. 

The house was large, but modest in its outlook; no one had updated the façade in many years, and it looked its age compared to the other houses on the street. As Richard approached, he saw a woman at the top of the steps, a bucket and brush in hand. Her face was flushed, as though she had already been working, but the step was dry, so he must have caught her at the beginning of the task. She looked at him suspiciously as he made himself known.

“Good morning, madame,” he said, with the same burst of confidence that had sustained him all morning. “Is Monsieur Fauchelevent at home?”

“He is. Who is calling?” 

She stood with her arms crossed, a guard at the threshold. Richard knew he would never enter the house if she did not decide to grant him access. 

“My name is Richard Hugo. He and I met just a few weeks ago and I saw him – yesterday, we renewed our acquaintance, and I thought to visit him.”

The woman put her brush down and stepped purposefully into the house. She was going to close the door, Richard realised, and he wondered why she would behave so rudely to a stranger she did not know – but then she cleared her throat.

“Monsieur is not feeling at all well, Monsieur Hugo,” she said. “Forgive me, but I will speak to him before I allow you to come in.”

As a sign of good faith, she did not close the door entirely. And she did not take long either in completing her task. 

“Follow me, please.”

The house was cool, shadowy even, and Richard felt a slight shiver go through his spine. He did not know why. But there was some evidence that the house was in upheaval too; packing cases, and wooden boxes had been stacked neatly against one wall, under the staircase. 

The woman led him into a small library where, despite the heat of the day, there was a fire burning in the grate. Perhaps Fauchelevent had caught a chill at the funeral. Richard felt absurdly guilty about that, although he had offered the old man his umbrella. It was not his fault that he had refused to accept it. 

The man himself was sitting on a sofa, a blanket over his knees. He seemed to be gazing into the fire and not to hear the housekeeper at all, although he must have allowed Richard’s entry. The light played over his lined face, casting deep shadows under his eyes that gave him a curious, skull-like appearance. Richard felt that shiver again, but then Fauchelevent moved his head, and he was once again just an old man. 

“Good morning, Monsieur Hugo,” he murmured. “Please have a seat.”

Richard perched on the edge of the armchair, and folded his hands neatly on his lap. Now that he was here, he did not know where to begin. 

“How are you, monsieur?” he asked. 

“Well enough. Thank you.”

“Your priest sends his regards. He was concerned that he has not seen you in several weeks.”

“He is a good man.”

So far, there had been no curiosity in Fauchelevent’s look or his speech. Richard was sure that the first thing he would have asked such an unexpected visitor as he would be their purpose. 

“I am sure you wish to know why I am here,” he ventured, and at that, Fauchelevent turned his head just enough to indicate that there was an ounce of curiosity there. 

“You will have to forgive the strangeness of my account, monsieur, but since I was called upon to tend to Inspector Javert, I have scarcely been able to keep the man from my mind.”

There was a twitch of Fauchelevent’s lips at that, and Richard was encouraged. 

“And last night, I must confess I had the strangest of dreams. I do not recall the place or the subject, but I awakened this morning with the feeling that I must speak with you. And it is as though there is a spirit at my side, whispering a name in my ear. I wonder if you know that name?”

Fauchelevent had turned to look at him properly in the course of his speech, and Richard was shot through with another jolt, something that said he was making the right choice in coming here. He had missed the look of apprehension on the old man’s face to begin with, a thing that he would come to regret.

“What is the name, Monsieur Hugo?”

“Valjean. Jean Valjean.”

If had missed the apprehension before, then he could not miss the way that Fauchelevent started as though he had been shot.

Happy Barricade Day 2022! We're back with an update on our 2019 barricade story - chapter by Jay, beta by Beds. Hope you guys enjoy, and that this is the year we finally finish!


“ Jean Valjean.”


That was the name that had been ringing through Richard’s mind all day, as if the spirit was standing at his side, whispering it into his ear. He gave it breath, unleashed it into the world, where it echoed around the small library, above the crackling of the fire in the grate and the hush of the morning outside the window.

For a long moment, the old man who had named himself Fauchelevent did not speak. His frame shrank back against the sofa, the shadows cast by the fire giving his features a skull-like appearance. Richard felt the aftermath of the name shrivel on his lips, tasted bitter regret – at having come here, at having disturbed this man, at having interfered in a story and a private sorrow that he didn’t understand and never would.

Then Fauchelevent took a deep breath, and climbed painstakingly to his feet. The blanket fell from his knees. Haloed in the sunlight streaming from the window, colour rising into his cheeks, he straightened his still-powerful shoulders as if he was a much younger, haler man.

“Monsieur Hugo, let me tell you about the man whose name was Jean Valjean.”

In a resonant voice, he continued: “Valjean was a peasant of Faverolles, who earned his living by pruning trees. He stole a loaf of bread to save his sister's starving son. For this offence, he spent nineteen years in the galleys.”

Richard felt a shudder go through him. Nineteen years in prison merely for stealing bread? It wasn’t to be countenanced. But the man was just beginning his story. 

“After he served his time, he tried to start a new life as an honest citizen. But his criminal past caught up with him, and he was condemned to life imprisonment for a second offence.” The man shook his white head fiercely, his lips set into a straight, determined line. “This time he had a child who depended on him. For her sake, he broke his ban and lived a life apart from the world.”

Richard was aware that the mystery that had been dogging him since he had been called upon to tend to the inspector was being revealed at last. And yet, instead of answering his questions, these revelations were more confusing to him than ever.

Finally Richard found his voice. “Valjean had a child?” he asked. 

The man’s eyes shone with emotion. “She is named Cosette. His adopted daughter, his entire world, his night and day. It would break her heart to know the truth about him. That her beloved father is a convict and a fugitive from justice, that he does not deserve to be in her life and never did.”

Suddenly, a memory returned to Richard. Once again he was standing at far end of the graveyard in Pere-Lachaise under a night sky, beside a pink-blossomed tree and a fresh grave, watching this man confront the ghost of the inspector that had just been laid to rest. 

In his dream, he heard this man murmur words which he did not then understand, but which now finally took meaning. Cosette tells herself she loves her father, but she doesn’t know who that father truly is.

The man was continuing, now, to Richard, “It was for her sake that Valjean returned to the world and saved the boy she loved... Now it seems the boy might live and, if so, Valjean’s great commission might finally be at an end.”

Richard felt entirely at sea. Was Cosette’s lover somehow mixed up in the rebellion? What did this great commission entail? Why were there boxes throughout the house, as if its owner were on the cusp of moving away? 

But there was one question even more important than these. It was the question which the policeman’s ghost had asked in Richard’s dream, which had then gone unanswered. A question he, Richard, was now able to ask, now that he finally understood this fundamental truth that had been hidden for so long.

“Why do you think yourself undeserving of your daughter’s love?” he asked the man who had once been Jean Valjean. 

Valjean said, as if he was facing a firing squad, as if making his last confession to judge and jury, “Because I’m not a good man; I have never been. I stole silver from a bishop, and a coin from a child. My pride and arrogance ruined a poor woman’s life. Because of my cowardice, I almost let another man take my name and my place on the scaffold.” He swallowed, and added, “And because of me, a man is dead. A policeman who served the law, a man who loved...”

He couldn’t continue, but Richard understood what he meant; who he meant. 

“Inspector Javert,” Richard said, naming him, and saw that name, too, resound in Valjean’s eyes. “What happened between you?”

Valjean looked warily at Richard, hesitating, clearly unsure of how much Richard knew, and of how much to tell him. “I know you kindly attended to the inspector,” he said, the uncertainty making him once again as unsteady as an old man, “and yesterday you were even more kindly in attendance when he was sent on his final journey. But forgive me if I fail to understand your true interest in this matter.”

Richard caught his breath. In truth, he wasn’t sure he could understand it himself. But the memory of his dream seized him, together with the image of the inspector’s dead face on his table and then Javert’s undead one at his own grave, and what he had seen in Valjean’s own expression under the ghostly moonlight. Impulsively, he said:

“I saw you last night. Beside the inspector’s grave in Pere-Lachaise. I was there, somehow, in my dreams, together with you in yours. I heard what you said to him, and what he said to you from beyond the grave.”

”The man of mercy, the good man, finally deigning to end a poor policeman’s years of obsession,” Javert had said, and after Valjean had demurred, “You are a strange man to admire the thing that could have killed you.”

Valjean gasped, and staggered on his feet. Richard leaped up to assist him back onto the sofa. Valjean crossed himself with a shaking hand and said, “It wasn’t a dream. I was there last night, standing before his headstone. And he came forth from his grave and spoke to me.” 

Richard re-arranged the blanket over Valjean’s legs; he couldn’t help observing that Valjean’s trousers were mud-stained, as if from kneeling in the soil at the inspector’s graveside. “Then I dreamed about you both,” he said, returning to his seat. “I heard the inspector call you by your real name. I heard him tell you…”

Once again he saw the inspector’s grim, ghostly countenance. Heard him say to Valjean, You let me go free. I could not remain myself and withhold from your arrest; as long as I lived, you would never be safe… So I did what I did.

Helplessly, Richard concluded, “I heard him tell you he loved you.”

Valjean nodded. His face was a rictus of different emotions, his mouth trembling as if with palsy. “He was the only person in this life who truly knew me. Not Cosette, not her mother, not even my friend Fauchelevent, from whom I borrowed this name. Javert knew me, and he thought, against all reason, that I was a good man.”

“Because you released him?”

Again, Valjean nodded, his pallor now almost as white as his hair. “He had been captured at the barricades. I could no sooner harm him than my own child, or the other misguided boys at the Corinthe, and certainly not for my own sake. And I even thought…” He drew a shaking hand over his mouth. “I even thought we would be allowed to set our masks aside, and be ourselves together. But I did not imagine that this would lead him to destroy himself to save me.”

Richard said, softly, “He told you he destroyed himself because he didn’t want to live in the world any longer. He also said… he said he died so you could live.”

“It wasn’t his decision to make,” Valjean said, an almost-savage note entering his voice. “Nor does it happen to be yours, Monsieur.”

“That may be so. But it is surely not your decision alone, either.” Richard leaned forward at the edge of his chair. “Think of your daughter! She needs you.”

Valjean bowed his head heavily. “The truth is that she needs me no longer. The boy loves her, he is from a good family, he will take care of her. I have spoken to his grandfather, they will marry in the spring. Her happiness is secure. Now I must remove myself from the scene to secure that happiness, for fear that my convict past would cast a stain on her future.”

Richard could not endure this flat, empty tone, the anguished expression. Grasping at Valjean’s sleeve, he exclaimed, “Monsieur, this must be a mistake. I’m certain your daughter will understand about your past. And you say you saved her lover at the barricades! Surely, he would be most grateful – all one would need do would be to tell him – to tell her –” 

“No!” The word cracked out. Valjean shook off Richard’s hand with a sudden, astonishing strength. Once again he rose to his feet. An angry flush suffused his face, fierceness filled his broad body with a vigour that almost frightened Richard, as if Valjean was capable of tearing him limb from limb. 

Between his teeth, Valjean ground out, “You must never disclose my secret! Or else … or else I will… I …”

As quickly as his rage had come upon him, it vanished; the furious strength drained away in a blink of an eye like water from a cracked vessel. Valjean slumped back onto the sofa as if his legs could no longer hold him, and dragged in a painful breath.

Richard’s heart lurched in fear and pity for Valjean. How could he ever have thought this old man could possibly hurt him, that he was capable of hurting anyone? It was unendurable how distressed Valjean looked, how terribly defeated. “I promise I won’t. I’m sorry. I never meant to upset you, Monsieur. It’s just…I don’t understand.”

Valjean shuddered. In a wretched tone of voice that sounded barely human, he murmured, “There is nothing to understand, Monsieur. I do not have the right to be happy. I am a convict and I stand outside of life.”

“But I still –” 

Valjean raised a large hand. His palm was scarred, his fingers trembling. “Please leave me,” he said, a dismissal that Richard could not refuse.

Richard got up. His legs were shaking. “I am so very sorry,” he muttered, through numb lips, and headed for the door of the library.

The housekeeper had flung open the library door, her face like a thundercloud. “What have you done?” she hissed, looking over his shoulder at her employer. “You never should have come. Leave him alone, and don’t darken our house again.”

Richard hung his head, his heart throbbing as badly as his temples. Indeed, he should not have come. What possessed him to think he could meddle in this man’s life and that of his daughter, what had made him presume to disturb the sanctity of this household? 

Crossing the room’s threshold, he paused to take one final look at the man called Jean Valjean. 

Valjean was folded over on the sofa, his eyes closed, that venerable white head slumped against the threadbare fabric, as if his old body had already been broken together with his heart.