Title: An Officer and a Mayor?
Work ID: 3567182
Author: Pizzapig
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Romance, Heart Break, Angst, Identity, Smutty, Self-Harm, Internalized Homophobia, Suicidal Thoughts
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 10/10

https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11121635/1/An-Officer-and-a-Mayor

An Officer and a Mayor?
By Pizzapig

 

He awoke with a headache and a sour taste in his mouth, an arm was carelessly thown over his chest, the feeling of warm breathe was against his neck. His first thought was of apprehension, followed by an overwhelming curiosity to open his eyes. A deep dark dread settled in his stomach as he realised what he had done. Jarvet recoiled in horror. He had failed once again, sinned terribly against all that was moral and respectable. Truthfully he had no one to blame but his own person, through fault of his own character and too much liquor he had easily became what he so diligently tried to resist. Jarvet had been fighting his way through adversity, yet he always ended up in the bed of men. He had tried to stay on the path of righteousness and godliness, tried to resist every earthly sin god had tested him with. yet he always ended up here. Fallen, fallen into damnation and sin, lured in by carnal lust and immorality; His head hit the pillow with a thunk, he was hell bound for sure. Without a passing glance he pulled on his pants and quickly left the lodgings. Shameful and hating himself he walked quickly without destination. Jarvet found himself in the middle of a dark alleyway, a ruffian was set upon a lady grabbing her tightly.
"Oi! What are you doing"
"Stay out of this boy."
"Unhand the lady at once."
The vile creature sized him up with a leer and a swagger. "Piss off will you."
Jarvet felt himself react and desended upon the ruffian pushing him down.
At that moment 2 coppers rounded the corner and grabbed himself and the lowlife.
What is going on here?" They demanded.
The lady cried out with a sob. "This man saved my life sir."
"Is this true?" he asked Jarvet raising his eyebrow at the poor state of the boy.
"I did what any decent citizen would do."
The officer raised to his full hight and raised his hand, Jarvet cringed. He merely patted him on the back
"Well done boy. If you are looking to better yourself the force is always looking to hire." Jarvet took the card the copper offered in trembling habds. For the first time in a long time Jarvet felt a pride, a sense of purpose.




Many years later



For the last four months every Wednesday night Monsieur Le Maire had entertained the head inspector detailing reports from the week passed. An obligation both parties were required to partake in for the good of the city. It was a routine operation Jarvet would transcribe both an oral and written report to the mayor, answer any questions required of him, then leave to attend his duties. As the weeks wore on Jarvet got the distinct sense Monsieur Le Maire did not care for him very much, a feeling he was not unfamilar with, his rigid morality rubbed people the wrong way. Jarvet was not one to easily make friends. Growing up in desuetude he had learned early if he did not firmly set himself apart from the sinners he would be brought down with them. He could only rely on himself, the good lord, and the firm hand of the law to stay on the path of the rightous.

 

It was a particularly lonely and snowy Wednesday night that Jarvet found himself late arriving to Monsieur Le Maire office. He had spent the night chasing down an eulisive theif who thought he could escape by burying the evidence in a snowpile. standing in Monsieur le Maires' warm office the snow started to melt. Jarvet cursed himself, if only he had stressed less about getting to an appoitment with his superior on time, and went to the office for a dry shirt.
“This will not do.” Said Madeline shaking his head at Jarvet shivering .
Jarvet froze as he stood in the hallway feeling shameful at his less then presentable behaviour.
“You’ll catch your death in those clothes, have sense man, I did not expect for you to come to me in such a blizzard.”
“My duty is first above all”
Madeline frowned "Please officer, I have some spare clothes in my home that would see you more comfortable."
"I would not like to trouble you Monsieur le Maires."
"I can not sit comfortably whilst a guest in my home freezes."
Jarvet nodded stiffly and followed Monsieur le Maire as he led him into a grand but simply furnished house.
"This way my good man." Monsiejr le Maire touched him on the arm guiding him gently through the house.
Jarbet was handed a simple cotton white shirt and a pair of breaches.
"Thankyou." he replied softly, "I have coin to pay you."
"No need." Monsieur le Maire said waving him off.
Jarvet did not know what to make of this kindness and decided that it was basic duty that Monsieur le Maire made sure that the people of the town was not left without police to guard them.
“Drink?” asked Madeline pouring himself a generous amount.
“No.” Said Jarvet, since joining higher society he refused to engage any tempations he could not control.


"Thankyou" Jarvet said relaxing the warm fire against his back. His chair was stationed across from Monsiour le Maire and every so often there knees would brush.
Monsieur le mare looked back confused. "for the clothes Sir."
"It is no matter, and please call me Madeline." He said leaning in imtently "We have known each other long enough."
Jarvet shifted uncomfortably at the break in proticol, yet it was being asked by his superior so surely it was allowed. "As you desire" he said blushing. Jarvet had not spent his time to talk to Monsieur le mare/ Madeline outside basic duty. Madelines shirt was swimming on his own person. It made his eyes examine Madlines own figure. Taking in how strong and musicular his form was. Jarvet blanched. He was doing it for his duty, it was his duty to take note of everyone around him. No matter Muscular or not.
"Jarvet, Are you quiet comfortable?" Madeline said staring intently at him.
Jarvet blushed again "I am." he said clearing his throat noticing the squeek. "You have quiet a fine home here."
Madeline talked without pride or boast. "The town has given it to me for my services to the people."
Duty, that was a familar topic for Jarvet. "I have never seen a crime with such a low crime rate. I would like to know how do you achieve this accomplishment?"
"I offer anyone in seek of employement a job."
"How do you know you are hiring a person of good repute? What if they are a vagrant out to cause trouble?"
"I have not had any issues of yet. Jarvet what brings you to our small town of low crime?"
Jarvet grew sullen. "My superiors decided I needed a smaller posting to refresh my sensibilities."
"Is there something wrong with your sensabilities" he raised his eyebrow touching Jarvet on the knee.
"It is not buisness of polite company." Jarvet cleared his throat.
"Im sure Ive heard worse." Madeline said withdrawing his hand. Jarvet felt the absense of touch like a kick to the stomach. Jarvet examinded Madeline, his kind eyes stared back. Madeline bothered him, his face reminded him of someone long ago. The feeling was of someone familar. Someone best forgotten.
"My superiors believed I was being unfair to the criminals in my charge."
"I would not have guessed, I have no complaints with how you conduct your person in this town."
"I was a diffrent man then, it was a diffrent situation. I will not make those same mistakes again. Men like that never change. If you start to care about these convicts. That is the downfall." Jarvet said spirilling
"You cared about a convict in your charge." Madeline said surprised.
"It is getting late, I must hasten."
It wasnt until Jarvet got home that he realised he had not given his report to Madeline. He stay awake until the early hours of the Morn thinking about the Mayor with the familar kind eyes.


 

The rising sun broke Jarvet from his musings, a reflection flashed across his vision. Shadowing his eyes Jarvet reached for the object in question, the familiar shape felt heavy in his hands, The object was cheap, dented, and crafted from rejected metal scraps, a holy divinity of symbolism, warm within his tightly closed fist, the sharp edges cut into his hand. A tiny drop of blood ran down his arm staining the pristine white sheets below. His salvation came through a set of hands, gently resting on his own, relaxing his grip he let the object softly fall onto the bed sheets, revealing a simple silver cross painted against the white backdrop. The man reached out to comfort him and Jarvet recoiled in horror as if he had been burnt. A feeling of deep shame assaulted his senses, and he leapt out of bed, backing up as far as his legs would carry him,
"Dont be ashamed Jarvet, I know you love it." the prisoner cooed presenting his leaking cock. 

 Jarvet awoke in a sweat, his erection straining uncomfortably against his pants. He refused to give his body the pleasure it desired. Jarvet grabbed a handful of snow from the window sill and shoved the coldness down his pants. He winced as the shock of his failings overcame his body. Jarvet dry heaved, then vomited the contents of his stomach onto the floor. He hated himself, his immorality, his sins. No matter what he did, he would always be hand in hand with the devil himself. Jarvet wondered what would be enough to cleanse his soul. To reach absolution. 

A little after sunrise Jarvet found himself at Madelines door. He had to confirm his suspicions. Jarvet rapped loudly.
A tired Madeline answered, dressed and ready to start the day.
"Inspector Jarvet, What brings you to my door at such a early hour?"
"I remembered that yesterday in my state I had mistakenlh forgotten to give a detailed report of the unlawfulness going on in this town."
Madeline nodded. "Please come in."
Jarvet recounted the week in mention precisily and without falter. Jaevet then excused himself routinely as possible and hastened his way to the office.
He had no doubts burried in his sinful dreams was a message. Madeline, was the wretched escapee, Jean Valjean, 24601.

Um. Smutt at the end.so if you hate it, skip. Im sorry im rewriting this whole thing.

Chapter 2

Wednesday had rolled around like usual, but to Jarvet the wait was unbearable, insufferable upon his usually patient disposition. Often times throughout the week Jarvet had found himself getting distracted like a young school boy, checking impatiently for a reply from his superiors. To be so easily rid of the distraction that was Madeline was more than Jarvet could hope. His officers had started to whisper about his usual stoic manner taking on a sudden change. Jarvet was twice as strict upon the juniors to make up for it. They soon quieted their dishwasher tongues. Jarvet threw himself into his work with a valiant zeal, determined to prove that he was as moral as always.

 "Sir mail for you."
"Hand it here then" He comanded quickly breaking through the wax seal.
 Requested for information.
Subject: Prisoner 24610.
Prisoner 24610 in question was found January 4th 1823 hiding in a dwelling far from this town. Sentencing and Trial is to be held shortly. No further investigation required.
Signed
Pierre Moreau
Chief of police.”
<









Jarvet frowned at the letter. He was so sure.
"Is everything okay Sir?" his coworker inquired
"I had my suspicions about Monsieur le maire but I was wrong."
"Be careful sir, dont want to be making waves, accusing of upsetting authority. After all we are under the emplotement of monsieur le maire at the end of the day."
"Noted." he said grimly.


As routinly as the sun rising and setting, Wednesday rolled around as expected. Jarvet raised his arm, wiping the sweat that had gathered upon his brow and knocked upon Monsieur Le Maires door. No answer. He knocked again - nothing. Doubt began to creep in Jarvets mind when he was not immediately received. Yet he still had a duty to fulfil and could not turn away now like a cowardly mouse. A third time he knocked, significantly louder, rat-tap-tap upon the solid oaken doors.
“Jarvet! Welcome! My apologies for the delay, I was discussing a matter of importance with the house keeper and did not hear your knock.”
Jarvet nodded, undoing his overcoat and removing his hat. His observant gaze was drawn to the mayor who had his hand wrapped in bandages.
“You have sustained an injury?”
“Yes.” Said Madeline shiftily, “I burnt it on the fire as I was moving the embers, do not concern yourself, it is small and healing nicely.”
Jarvet could tell the mayor was lying, but knowing what was best for him he let the matter drop. He had
aused enough harm already.
“Shall we proceed?” said Jarvett grimly.
"Monsieur le Mayor, I have a crime to declare! I have disgraced the uniform that I wear I've done you wrong, let no forgiveness be shown. I've been as hard on every rogue I have known. I mistook you for a convict, I have made a false report, Now I learn they caught the culprit, He's about to face the court. And of course, he now denies it, You'd expect that of a con, but he couldn't run forever, No, not even Jean Valjean!"
"You say this man denies it all and gives no sign of understanding or repentance? You say this man is going to trial and that he's sure to be returned to serve his sentence."
"He will pay, and so must I, press charges against me, sir."
You have only done your duty, It's a minor sin at most.
All of us have made misjudgments You'll return, sir, to your post."


 Jarvet searched Madelines face for mistruth or misjudgement but found nothing. "I admit I do not understand you Madeline." he admitted honestly.
"Is that good or bad?"
"I am not sure." The tension held as Jarvet realised how close to Madeline he had become in his passions to be punished, rather finding himself absolved by the genourous man before him. Jarvet stepped back. "I must be going." he said rushing out straightening his hat. 

 Wednesday again. He knocked.
"Jarvet!" Madeline greated him warmly, Jarvet noticed he was intoxicated.
He took his coat and hat off as usual and put it on his spot on the rack. He chastised himself. It was not his spot.
"Im just about to have dinner. Ive had meetings all day. Please join me."
Before he could object at such liberties Jarvet found himself being pushed into a chair, and a glass of wine being poured for him.
"My mistake." Madeline exclaimed "You dont drink."
"Leave it." Jarvet felt himself say. Completly sober he had wandered into sin, a dash of wine would not corrupt him any furthur than he corrupted himself.
Madeline sat across from him. Waxing and wanning about his plans for a decent orphanage for the children of this town. Complaining about a nuisance in his factory the other day.
The dinner came out as Madeline started to lament on his favourite Shakespearean plays. Jarvet admitting he did not have time for such frivolouties.
The dinner tasted peppery. Jarvet found himself reaching for his wine more than he could notice. The servants filling it up without prompting.
Jarvet stood up and felt hinself quiet lightheaded.
"Monsieur Le Maire, the Lavatory!?"
"Please, Please, Madeline."
Madeline started to walk him through the house showing him the way. As he exited he found Madeline waiting for him.
"Can I be so bold to ask you a personal question." He had always much more gall after he had been drinking.
"I am apprehensive of what you may ask but I shall grant you 2 questions."
"You are not young no, How come you have never married?"
Madeline sighed. "It is not that I havent want to, I guess I did not think it fair to stick someone such as me."
"Someone such as you?"
"Is that your second question?"
"No. Last week, why did you forgive me so easily. I could have brought ruin apon your reputation with my ignorance."
"I have made mistakes I have wished to be forgiven for in the past. I would hope one day someone could pay me the same kindness."
Jarvet was still not satisfied with his answer. "I do not deserve your forgiveness."
"Jarvet, everyone deserves forgiveness." His name came out roughly from Madelines mouth and he felt something hungry shift within himself.
"Now it is my turn to ask something of you." Jarvet leant in with anticipation.
"What led you to believe I could be a common criminal?" His tone was dangerous, it compelled Jarvet ever so more. He blushed, He could not explain his dream of Madeline lying naked in his bed.
"Oh?" he said seductivly, trying to draw the words from Jarvet.
"It is not decent."
Madeline reached out brushing his arm in a compelling way. Jarvet couldnt take it anymore and grabbed Madeline by the lapels and kissed him messily. Jarvet stepped back with horror, and before he could appoligise Madeline pushed him against the wall and devoured him. He kissed him in a way he had not felt in a long time. Desire unfurled in his belly, he pulled madeline in close and grinded up hard against him. Madeline groaned in a sinful way as he pushed his own erection against Jarvet. Not here. He said deeply as he pushed Jarvet into the nearest doorway.
He grabbed Madeline cupping his face and kissed him messily. All tongue and desire.
He had fallen, why not go straight to hell. At this point he didnt care as Madeline reached into his pants and he grinded into the hand holding his straining cock. Madeline kissed his neck as he pushed him onto the bed.
Madeline stadelled him looking down on him with an appraising look. Jarvet tried reahing up to touch Madeline.
He grabbed Jarvets wrists and pinned him against the matress. Jarbet winned in complaint at the loss of friction on his buldging errection. Madeline Kissed bruisingly and sinfully as he held him in place. If we are to do this. I have conditions.
"Anything." Jarvet begged.
"Listen first." He repriminded. Finding joy in telling Jarvet off. Jarvet sulked his as Madeline squeezed his ass. Madeline pinned Jarvet down with one hand and took his pants off with the other.
"If we do this we must have rules."
"Rules?" Rules made sense. Rules was were Jarvet found comfort.
First rule. He licked the tip of Jarvet erection.
Jarvet groaned.
"Im in charge."
"Say it." he comanded kissing the top of his erection and twirling his tongue.
"Youre in charge." Jarvet affirmed.
Madeline rolled off Jarvet and tore a strip of fabric from his shirt. I want you to wear this, he handed it to Jarvet who covered his eyes. To be honest it felt less condeming if he couldnt see.
"Third rule: No touching."
"Not fair," Jarvet complained.
"It is my rule, if you dont want to participate." Madeline said pumping his erection and sucking his testicles. "You dont have to."
"Okay." Jarvet agreed. "Just dont stop."
Madeline chuckled, low and throaty.
Jarvet heard another ripping sound and felt himelf being flipped arpunf and his wrists being tied to the headpost.
Is that all the rules. Jarvet panted facing the bed head, on his kneed needing relief.
"Last one." Madeline promised.
"You have to tell me, enthustatically that you want this."
Jarvet hestitated. He wish it was anything else. It was worse saying it than doing it.
Madeline lightly touched his thick and buldging erection. taking his hand away quickly. "Otherwise I wont touch you."
"Please," Jarvet begged.
"Say it." he teased the edge of Jarvet hole.
"I want this. I want you."
Jarvet felt the feeling of two warm and slick fingers enter him. He groaned in esctasy. Feeling his hole being opened and stretched. he grinded against the fingers sliding and stretching.
He whinned as they retreated. The emptiness and darkness lonely.
"Rule 4." The deep hoarse voice comanded.
"Please" he begged, "Dont make me say it."
"Rule 4." the voice demanded.
Jarvet sighed, he was to be lost forever. Willingly so.
"I want you inside of me." The man groaned "Please fill me up with your cock." He grinded against the air.
Sunddenly he felt somethung touch his entrance. Pushing into him. He shifted, and felt bliss as Madeline grinded into his merciless and with growing speed. He didnt know who was louder. Him or Madeline, as Madeline thrusted, Jarvet felt the makeshift blindfold slipping. Conspiciously he looked back to get a glance of the esctasy he was causing. His wrist were so tight all he could see was Madeline gripping his hips and trusting. For the first time ever he saw Madelines uncovered wrists. Circling around them was old scars, angry and revealing.
His desire rose, and a warm heat spread through his body as he exploded all over his stomach. Merely a moment later his partner came too. His warm liquid filling him up. Dirty and delicious. He felt his wrist loosen and Madeline kiss him softly on the neck as he helped him pull up his breaches.
"That was most enjoyable. Unfortunatly, I must take my leave." 
Jarvet stared in disbelief as Madeline smoothed his hair and turned on his heel. "You can let yourself out. With a soft thud the door closed behind Madeline leaving Jarvet alone in the spare room. Jarvet smoothed his regulation white shirt leaving behind their sin.

 The warmth of the house left behind. The cold wind found its way under Jarvet navy jacket, its icicle fingles traveling down his spine. Jarvet disapeared into the first allyway near the house. He was a stupid fool. Jarvet hit the wall once. A sinner. Twice, weak. Thrice, Gutter trash. He pounded the wall bloody. Hot tears rolled unstopping down his face. Jarvet slid down the wall, He fisted the tears roughly out of his eyes. Enough was enough! He was a officier of the law! A respected man! No one would find put about his slip! 

Jarvet pulled himself up out of the alley and onto the pathway to the church. He bowed his head and prayed to the almighty god for his forgiving heart.


Chapter 3

 Jarvet arrived on the scene breathless. He had ridden the poor beast hard at the commotion. He had Hoped to intervene before Monsieur Le Maire was called. Too late! Monsieur le Maire was already there. Jarvet conspicously hid within the crowd. A Citesian was trapped beneath a cart. Monsieur Le Maire stepped forward offering his assistance. Monsieur Le Maire put the heavy cart upon his shoulders. Straigning under the inpossable weight he lifted tbe cart off the man and returned him to opportunity. That cart was extremly heavy, for a man the age of Monsieur le Maire, it should have been impossible to free the unfortunate soul.
The clouds moved away from the sun, A memory spoke the truth within him. The strength of Monsieur Le Maire was of no ordanary man! The scars on his wrists was extremely abnormal. A man of so long ago that Jarvet had paid close attention to ran through his mind. A prisoner who escaped his parole.
It cannot be the same man! For sure! He was stunned to his very core. Although he had been wrong before! he couldnt risk it again!. He had to be sure this time. 

 

That same week Jarvet was called upon a scene where a prostitute had attacked a young gentlemen. Ready to prosecute, to do his duty. Jarvet raised his baton, halting only when Monsieur le Maire stepped in. Jarvet frowned. Again! Madeline was here. Monsieur le Maire did not act the way a convict acts. To save the life of a stranger that was not the act of a former convict. Maybe he was doing it to stay in good graces of the people? If he was 24601 truly than being Monsiur le Maire came with special privileges.
Had the only reason Madeline been with him to throw him off the scent?
Jarvet refused to let his mistakes get in the way of justice.
Jarvet was glad Monsieur Le Maire had not had more time to converse with him. Lest he chance a glance at the storm raging within his mind.

After many a day of pacing around his office, and nights filled with unrest and anxiety, nightmares, and little sleep. The next day was to confirm the prisoner was in fact Jean Valjean. Taking one look at the convicts face he immediately knew it was 24601. How had he confused the respectable Monsieur Le Maire with this degenerate? It was clear this was a criminal sitting in front of him. He felt very ashamed at how wrong he had got it.

Chapter 3
Jarvet was frozen to the spot as the mayor entered the courtroom.
Monsieur Le Maires usual neat appearance was ruffled as he ran down the isle.
“Stop! This man is no guilty than you your honour, for I am 24610.”
“I do not believe it, Monsiur Le Maire has lost his sanity.” Remarked Jarvet shocked at this confession.
Monsieur Le Maire unbuttoned his over coat removing his waistcoat and his under shirt in one smooth motion, letting the article that had so long hidden his shame fall to the floor. There branded upon his skin for the world to see was the tell-tale mark, TF, travaux forcés for forced hard labour, the mark of the Toulon convict.
Colour drained from Jarvets face, he lost all sensation, and all anchor to the earthly realm. It was as if he was witnessing the scene from above, he was within purgatory, and this was his punishment. The gavel of the judge shocked his senses enough to be brought back to earth. The noise of the courtroom came rushing back all at once and he felt quiet faint. He was a fool, a tool used by a devil, a gullible idiot! Never again will he be so foolish.
“You’ll know where to find me. Confirm with inspector Jarvet." Jarvet caught the Devil’s last parting words before he left the courtroom un-harassed by uncertain hands. All looking towards his own person for direction. The pressure of the court drew him to action, with hard difficulty he turned away from his own feelings and emotions on the matter. Now was the time for action! He was inspector Jarvet, the law was his only guiding principle, it had never failed him before, guiding him from the life of desuetude to righteousness, and was sure to prevail now.
“Stop gawking men! After the guilty convict, he has confessed, and you are letting him get away.”
“Inspector he is the mayor.” said a Junior officer naively.
“No man is above the law, not even a mayor.”
It was his duty, and he was going to fulfil it personally. He would bring the convict to justice, balance the scales of justice once again. 

 

Later that night, it took Jarvet a moment of careful consideration before he went to the hospital, sending the other officers off in a diffrent direction. This was something he had to do alone. News had yet to spread of Monsiuer le maire crazed confession, it was going to be only a manner of time in a small town such as Montreuil-sur-Mer. Tired and weary Jarvets feet seemed to make their way up the wooden stairs by themselves. Thunk! Thunk! Each step brought his reckoning.
“He is a criminal.” he put all his belief into that one known fact, focusing his attention on who that man was, what he had done.
Reaching the top of the tower he placed his hand upon his weapon. He entered the room and Madeline. NO!Jean Valjean! Turned from the bed of a local prostitute, a deep sadness within his eyes. The only explanation Jarvet concluded was that he was involved with the prostitute. Conning her like he had his own person
"Monsiuer le maire!" he accused "At last we see each other plain."
“Before you say another word Javert, before you chain me up like a slave again. Listen to me! There is something I must do. This woman leaves behind a suffering child. There is none but me who can intercede - In mercy's name, 3 days is all I need. Forget the transgressions of the past! You say we see each other plainly now. Start anew with me! We shall attend to this child, and leave tonight, well go where no one knows our name.” 

Javert drew his sword and aimed it at Valjean. Another trick from this devil, so in consorting with this woman, he had fathered a child (if there was a child). He would take no part in this rouse to earn the prisoner his freedom, he would not let the convict deceive him again. How dare he try to lead him from the path of righteousness into sin.
"Take my word, I am not decieving you Jarvet. I know you feel what I feel."
“You must think me mad! I’ve hunted you across all these years, men like you can never change. A man such as you can never change!" Jarvet struck at Valjean with his sword. He paried with a wooden beam. "Men like you can never change." He struck a few more times unsuccessfully .
A grief was in 24610’s eyes that confused Jarvet, a grief he could not explain away by easy words, looking away from the mans face, he ignored the pained look upon the convicts face.
"A man like you can never change!"
"Believe of me what you will, My feelings are true.
There is now a duty I am sworn to do."
Jarvet was beyond listening, beyond reasoning, all he felt was rage.
He swung the sword quick. Valjean blocked every swipe.
"You know nothing of how I feel."
"No I dont Jarvet!" He accused as Jarvet started swiping more furiously.
“You know nothing of my past- All I did was steal some bread to feed my sisters child, you know nothing of me Jarvet. You know nothing of the world. You would sooner see me dead." Valjean finally realised
"Come with me. You have no rights." He admitted he didnt have the heart to kill Valjean, rather intended to imprisson him. He could not run away with a man such as he.
"Not before I see my duty done." Valjean parried.
“Dare you talk to me of crime, and the price you had to pay. Every man is born in sin; Every man must choose his way! You may know my body but you know nothing of me" Jarvet stood in Valjean wooden beam trapping him against a wall. "I was born inside a jail! I was born with scum like you. I am from the gutter too.
Valjean realised that Jarvet was about to strike and ran and left out of the nearest window into the canal below.
Jarvet watched horrified as Valjean disapeared below the surface of the water. He didnt know if he was hoping Vajean would sink and save them both the mysery or swim away to terrorise someone else. He turned away as to not know the outcome, let the good lord make up his mind.

 "Inspector!" his good friend and coworker called. What right had he to hold that title? Dishonored! He did not deserve such a prestigious honour. He had failed. Never again must he be so foolish, to bring such shame on himself and his title. If not for the wrong he had to set right he would resign then and now. Instead he set his focus on an old familar task. Locking his heart away forever more, he was going to bring 24610 to justice. Jarvet rushed down the stairs straightening his uniform and heading the call of duty.
“Wherever you may hide.” He vowed “I will be there.”


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Chapter 5

With few threats Jarvet gained access to Fanine’s quarters, and procured one of her letters. Reading the return address he found the whereabouts of the child that Jean Valjean had mentioned. Surprisingly, Jarvet found that the convict had been telling the truth. The prostitute had a child. A product of an absent father. Not Jean Valjeans spawn as he had previously assumed. Further inquiry informed him that Monsieur le Maire had never in fact ever visited Fanine in the night, nor any other woman, as so many men had before to sate their urges. It baffled and confused Jarvet that Jean Valjean would rescue a child with no relation to him. The only motivation being a debt he felt he owed the mother. It did not match the image he held within his mind of a convict. A convict never had a pure honest reason behind their motives. There must be another explination. It was a rouse to earn more money or a shield to hide behind. As usual he felt a headache coming on thinking about Jean Valjean 

 

“Wheres the child Cosette?” Demanded Jarvet riding up to the bar.
“Gone with a gent, didnt tell us where he went. Didnt leave his home adress.” Jarvet sighed. It was obvious this couple was of ill repute. By there brimming pockets, Valjean couldnt be far away.
“Did you catch the fellows name?” said Jarvet imposing, towering over them his horse stomped impatiently. Jarvet knew the type: Scum of the earth, it was hard to get an honest answer on a good day.
As if sensing his anger the Thenardiers shook their heads, backing away from his fierce form. Warning them to stay out of trouble he rode away from the establishment, it would not do to lose his temper just yet.
The doubt set his veins on fire so, for sure it could not be Jean Valjean, but another gentleman. The child’s father perhaps? A con such as Valjean could not be trusted, he would surely break his word. 

 

“Set up a barrier along the road.” Jarvet instructed the men, "Ask around for gentleman travelling alone, potentialy a young girl by his side. Apprehend him immediately, he is dangerous.”
The night progressed slowly after that. A standstill of routine checks. Jarvet diligently searched each face and checked every pass. He could not shake the tense feeling within his bones, an edginess that encompassed him completely like a knife within his ribcage. Twisting and turning every time his eyes scanned the darkness, seeking out Valjean on the road behind, a sinking feeling every time he turned up empty. 

Another routine search of the darkness, before turning to the next gentleman in front of him, searching his document. If not for an owl hooting he would have missed them completely, Out of all the barriers and ways to escape. It was as if god intended it for, to look up at the right moment to notice two dark figures in the distance. The taller one was helping the smaller one climb a wall.

Valjean! 
He kicked his horse hard and set off racing against the convict.
His horse scaled the wall in one sweft leap and set off down the concreted walkway after valjean and the girl.
His horse balked as the climbed down some narrow stairs.


 "24601" he yelled frustrated.

 The horse lost his shoe so he jumped off immediatly running the way he thought Valjean had gone. His breathe came quick and fast. His legs straining. He ran until he hit a dead end.
"Valjean!" he yelled scraping his knuckles against the wall in frustration. The pain cleared his head and he followed the wall around. Searching. Failing to find the convict. He found the highest perch available and scaled it. Looking out into the city below. His melanchoy overtook him. There in the city below was Valjean, a fugitive running. Valjean was fallen from god and grace. If god be his witness he shall never yield to Jean Valjean again. Jarvet would not stop searching for him until they came face to face. Jarvet teetered on the edge of his perch, loneliness and shame overtook him. He wasnt sure what was worse: Being with Valjean in the first place or refusing to escape with him. Valjean is darkness. His must follow the way of the lord. He was sure of it. Those who follow the path of the rightous will one day recieve their reward. This empty hopeless feeling is his penance. Those who fall like lucifer fell, deserved: the flames, the sword. 

 He paused. Looking up, Searching the heavens for forgiveness. The stars in their multitudes lit up his night. The stars were comforting like angels: orderly, bright, silent, and sure. The stars keept watch over his soul. The stars knew their place in the sky, they know their course and aim. 

He turned away from the stars searching the city. A prayer on his lips.
"Lord let me find him. Let me help his soul. Return him safely behind bars. A promise- I will never rest till I find him. This I swear by the stars."


 

Don't forget to leave a comment, it would be awesome to hear what y'all think, I really would like to hear if youse think my story is any good, or completely terrible, or what. Im sorry if ypu liked the earlier drafts. Im feeling this newer vibe more. I tried to keep it basically the same. Just make more sense.

Chapter 6



9 years later, Paris, 1832.



Jarvet had been traveling from city to city, gaining repuation for being one of the toughest inspectors in the city. His latest posting was on the busy streets of Paris. Jarvet had full command over a station and a city full of criminals to quieten. It was all he had ever dreamed, yet he could not shake the dreadful emptiness within himself. A deep dark smog which kept him up most nights pacing the edge of the highest roofs of the police precedent. A watchful eye kept on his city bellow, looking out for disturbances, the rats rising their heads. One such vermin was the dreadful Thenardiers, regretfully it seemed to be his destiny to travel through life side by side with them. As his influence and good fortune grew within Paris so did theirs. The Thenardiers were part of Paris most treacherous and long standing gang. Crime after Crime Jarvet was called to that had their stamp all over it
Yet they were always conveniently gone before he could gain substantial proof. The next crime scene he attended the gang had been negligent, staying longer than intended. Jarvet had arrived in time to pull them off a gentleman and his daughter. Justice! Jarvet Interrogated a known criminal child of the area. As expected he got no answers. 

"Look at this fine collection," he said sarcasticaly "crawled from underneath a stone. The swarms of worms and maggots could have called you one of their own." He finally descended upon Thenardier "I know this man over here, I know his name and his trade. By your witness good sir. Ill see him locked away for good." Jarvet turned around searching for the gentleman and his daughter. Why on earth would he run?
The scum Thenandier spoke up "Youll have a job to find him. Hes not all he seems to be, that child that trails behind him." He dabbed a hankie to his eyes. "Is the child he stole from me."
"and me" the wife spoke up. 
"Yes both of us." he agreed

A cold dread filled Jarvet, Could it be the old jailbird? The tide has finally rushed in? Heard my name and started running. My past caught up to me?The girl by his side, so fair and true, little Cosette, has he done what he promised to do? Jean Valjean, run! Pray that I never catch up with you.
"In the absense of a victim" Thenardier began. Silding up to him and trying to flirt, toucing the arm of his jacket "May I go?" Jarvet looked at the wife who winked back. Thenandiar touched his face and Jarvet swallowed his anger down, trying to compose himself. "Remember when youve nicked him. It was me what told you so." 
Jarvet shrugged off the mans attention. Stepping away and staring him down with the full force of his anger.
"Let the old man keep on running, I will run him off his feet." He searched Thenandiars face trying to think something he could convict him with. Thinking of nothing, except harrasing a police officer which wouldnt stand in trial. Jarvet turned towards his fellow officers. "Everyone go about your buiness. Clear this garbage off the streat." He yelled pushing the dirty Child away and stormed off.

Ever since his run in with the Thenandiars Jarvet was extra vigilant to monitor their movements. Thenandiars actions reminded him of another time best forgotten where someone else also tried to maniplate his duties with flirtations. This time he was ready.
He heard a lady scream and it gave Jarvet the excuse he needed to apprehend the scoundral.
"Police!" he shouted dragging Thenardiar away.
He threw him in a cell and booked him on attempted robbery.


Chapter 7

"One more day to revolution!" Jarvet announced. The portraits of known schoolboys were sketched and stuck upon the stark wall. Malicious intent evident in expression! Far from innocence! Known criminals! Figureheads of a revolution!“Take note,” they were instructed. A note of agreement reverberated around the stuffy box room, guns were armed and ready. An impassioned speech was sure to follow. Jarvet was ready, he was determined, he would nip the revolution in the bud. Jarvet listened with eager ears. He felt alive, purposeful, and angry. He was ready to serve! The schoolboys will bathe in their own blood.
“Our plan is simple, but most dangerous and risky. We need to infiltrate the camp, learn all we can.”
“I will do it,” volunteered Jarvet willingly, he did not fear death. “I shall join these people’s heroes, join them where they go, learn their little secrets, all there is to know.” The other men breathed a sigh of relief, to be free from the pressure of being chosen for what surely was a suicide mission. Jarvet knew the men had families, lovers, or children. He didn’t blame them for stepping back, no one would miss him. He had no one to mourn him when he was gone. A perfect candidate for the job ahead. One more day to revolution, we will nip it in the bud. Uniform, In line with his comrades, an officer of the law. Jarvet would not falter, hand on gun, boots polished to perfection he ignored the sombre looks shot his way. Jarvet would see his duty through till the end, One day more to a new beggining! Tomorrow would be the judgement day.

 

The day had arrived and Jarvet hid invisible obscured by the crowd in plain clothes. His anger was there like a drumb beat in his heart. The disrespect of these children for the law.
The boys rushed forward with their flags, making a stance. Jarvet watched carefully as the boys mounted the carriages waving their flags and yelling abuse. Their words were getting more heated. The crowd was swarming. Jarvet ran to keep up with the fullest carriage.
The youth knew nothing of despair and trappery.
The youth raised their guns at the incoming police. The police rallied back by unsheathing their guns. An officers gun went off and the crowd surged when the bullet found its home in one of the rebels, an old gal. Immediately the flames of the revolution were fanned. Jarvet scouted the crowd looking for the officer that fired. It was not part of the plan. He pulled a schoolboy back as he was about to run into the pathway of a horse.

"Thankyou monsiour!" He exclaimed.

Jarvet scouted the area the rebbels had conviened. Hiding in the shadows as they grabbed tables, chairs, matresses anything available to them to build a barricade. Jarvet found the ribbon he secretly hid earlier that day. Pinning it onto his lapel the symbol of the rebellion. It was but a disguise yet Jarvet never felt dirtier in his life. A reminder to his life on the streets. He wished to shed the symbol immediately but could not forsake his duty no matter his personal apprehensions. Jarvet squared his shoulders and shoved down the twisting feeling of disgust following the moving crowd. A blonde boy sporting a red waistcoat called for volunteers.
"We need to find out the enemies plan."
“I can find out the truth, I know their ways, I fought their wars, served my time. In the days of my youth." To Jarvet this did not feel like a lie. Within his life Jarvet had served diligently, sacrificing all he had for justice and order. The leader nodded, a few of the boys praised him gripping his shoulder. He moved away from their touch. A choice between sending a stranger to the front lines or his rebel friends, they would choose Jarvet everytime. They shoved a gun in his hand as he contemplated the task at hand. His plan was succeding he thought grimly as he moved away from helping build the baracade. 

 

Climbing over the half built barricade Jarvet reported to the chief of police all he knew of the rebel force, reporting number, weapons, and intelligence. The Chief of police nodded in approval and leant in close to whisper the words of influence Jarvet was required to report back to the rebels.

 A congratulations for his bravery and a reminder of the lives Jarvet would be saving, he was sent on his way. Jarvet would not describe himself as a brave man but standing outside the barricades nervous at being shot by rebel fire he found a new form of courage he never knew he possessed. This was the deciding moment, whether he would be accepted back or shot instantly as he made his presence known.

 "Listen my friends." he pleaded "I have been to their lines. I have counted each man. I will tell what I can." He tried to pursue the boys not to throw away their lives. The leader lowered his gun, still donning the red jacket "Better beware they have armies to spare and the danger is real. We will need all our cunning to bring them to heel." 

 

“Have faith!" the leader rebuffed unconverned "If you know what their movements are we’ll spoil their game. There are ways that we people can fight - We shall overcome their power!”.
Jarbet recounted what the commisioner told him “I have overheard their plans. There will be no attack tonight. They intend to starve you out before they start a proper fight. Concentrate their force, hit us when it's light –“
“Liar!” Interrupted a small rebel boy.
Dreaded panic filled Jarvet’s chest. This may very well be the moment of his undoing.
“Good evening, dear Inspector. Lovely evening, my dear!" Jarvet ran as he remembered the boy he had been so rough with earlier this week. He was immediatly set upon by a group pf the rebels."I know this man, my friends. His name's Inspector Javert! So don't believe a word he says cause none of its true. This only goes to show what little people can do.”
The rouse was up, and far too soon as well. He had failed.
"Bravo Gavroche youre the head of the class." a black haired rebel praised.
"So what we going to do with this snake in the grass."
Jarvet stared defiantly at the boy behind the trigger, he was not ready to meet his maker yet, he still had a duty to do on this earth.
“Tie up this man and take him to the tavern over there! The people will decide your fate Inspector Javert!” announced the leader.
His anger bubbled to the surface who were they to judge him when they knew nothing of him? Corrupted schoolboys none the less! Rebels and traitors to all fair and just! He was sick of this childish game!
“Shoot me now or shoot me later - Every schoolboy to his sport! Death to each and every traitor! I renounce your people's court!” He would welcome death foundly
Just because he was a bastard through and through. He couldnt resist getting a few shots in at the schoolboys. He grabbed a familar weapon, a black pipe and hit the boys with it. As expected he was over powered, he felt a crack to the head and darkness overtook him. He smiled at the thought this was the end.

Chapter 8

 

Jarvet awoke tied to the staircase, one rope around his neck, and another tying his hands together. Blood was dripping down his face. Unfortunatly that meant he was still Alive, or in hell as he stared up at Jean Valjean through the open doors of the room. The rebbels had there guns turned on Valjean, He considered if there was anything he could do to help the foolish man.
"Dont kill him I know him." exclaimed Gavroche
"Enemy marksman!" yelled Valjean grabbing a gun and aiming, Valjean was nothing is not predicatable. Valjean inched closer to him exhaling hard at his injuries. Jarvet stared back, silently begging Valjean to leave him be. The effect of his intense gaze was not lessened by the years, Jarvet could not stand to hold it for long less he shatter into a million pathetic pieces. Thankfully Valjean looked away as the leader apporoached him. What was he doing here? Why? How? So many questions swam within Jarvets head.


 "Thankyou Monsiour" The leader thanked Valjean.
“Give me no thanks monsieur, there’s is something you can do."
"If it is within my power.."
"Give me the spy Jarvet! Let me take care of him.”
Jarvet listened with grim satisfaction, it made sense that this is the man to be his unmaker.
“Do what you have to do"
Gavroche handed Valjean a gun
"the man belongs to you.”
Jarvet made his peace, sending out a final prayer.
Valjean grabbed him by the hair yanking his head up and stared into his face. Jarvet tried no to cry as he reached behind him and losened the noose. Yanking him up roughly by the waistecoat Jarvet unsteadily rose to his feet, hiding his weakness as he attempted to walk on his disused legs, he would show no vulnerability in front of his executioner. Valjean roughly pushed him down the side alley.
Ignoring the stabbing pains working their way up his limbs Jarvet tried to stand to his full hieght. "
"We meet again." Valjean said dangerously holding the knife high
"Youve hungered for this your whole life." Jarvet parried back, justtung his chin out in defiance as Valjean approached. "Take your revenge. How right you should kill me with a knife." a knife was much more personal and intimate than a gun.
Jean Valjean raised the knife and Jarvet looked away, uttering a silent prayer he was prepared to meet his maker.
He cut the bonds and Jarvet looked at him amazed. "Get out of here." Valjean urged.
“….don’t understand.”
“Get out of here!" He whispered pushing him away
“Once a thief, forever a thief. What you want, you always steal. You would trade your life for mine? Yes, Valjean, you want a deal! Shoot me now for all I care - If you let me go, beware! You'll still answer to Javert.”
Valjean walked closer, Jarvet had revealed too much. “You are wrong, and always have been wrong. I'm a man, no worse than any man. You are free."Jarvet swallowed the pain in his throat flairing, he didnt feel fred. "There are no conditions, no bargains, or petitions. There’s nothing I blame you for. You've done your duty, nothing more." Once again Jarvet did not understand the man before him, yet somehow Valjean understood his own person completly. They were so close they were almost touching and jarvet reached up and carressed Valjeans face. Valjean leant into the touch, and Jarvet kissed him softly and crassly before pulling away.


"If I come out of this alive you’ll find me at Rue de l'Homme-Armé no 5. No doubt our paths will cross again.”
Jarvet stared at him in wonder, Who is this man? What sort of devil is he? he has caught me in a trap and choose to let me go free? It was his hour at last to put a seal on my fate wipe out the past and wash me clean off the slate! All it would take was a flick of his knife Vengeance was his and he gave me back my life! Was it possible I had misjudged him after all these years? Is he still the Madeline I once knew? The man I still love?

Jarvet did not want to go, he hesitated on the doorstep, years of unsaid words upon his lips. Jean Valjean raised the gun and shot it in at the banister by his head. He was right, now was not the time. He took one last lingering look at Valjeam before his legs carried him away

Jarvet ran, he ran as fast as his legs could carry him. He ran from Jean Valjean; he ran from himself; he ran with fear, with freedom. Jarvet did not trust himself. He feared he would turn back, beg the other man to leave with him. Ask if that offer of long ago was still available. To go far away where no one knew their name, to never be apart again, to love, and forget himself in the process. Foolish! To do that is to forget who he was! What he stood for! An officer and a convict.

 Jarvet froze as he caught sight of himself in a murky puddle, dishevelled and bruised he looked like a lunatic disguised as an officer of the law.
“What has become of me?” he questioned to no one in particular.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Chapter 9

As routine Jarvet made his way to the police barricades. Upon returning he was patched up and rewarded a medal for his efforts with a personal congratulations from the chief himself. Just yesterday this would have touched his soul deeply; nowdays Jarvet hardly noticed the prize as it was pinned to his lapel. The words of praise background noise to his misery. Jarvet wished to escape their penetrating gazes, fade into obscurity. Thankfully Jarvet could soon volunteer for another duty and started cataloguing the dead from the losing side. Even such a grim task Jarvet welcomed just to escape the crowd of celebrating colleagues. 

 Jarvet did not expect for the morbid sight to affect him so, he had seen worse in his profession, but the sight of so many boys lying dead, lined up in a row made him sick to his stomach. So young - deemed to such a cruel fate. They had their whole life ahead of them, snatched away with no chance in which to redeem themselves. Schoolboys and nothing more. Jarvet silently walked along the row, each step heavier than the last till he reached the end, the youngest lay there among the rest, Gavroche. One word rang true in Jarvets mind, innocent. The boy did not deserve this fate, Jarvet wished he had more pity for the boy when he was alive. He was far too young to lose his life in such a terrible way. With a deep dark despair Jarvet unclipped his own medal of valour and presented it to the little boy that had been so brave.

The bible clearly stated, have nothing to do with a false charge. Do not put an innocent or honest person to death, for I will not acquit the guilty.  Was Jarvet guilty of such a sin? A child so young could not be anything less than innocent? What other innocent people had the law condemned? That he had condemned? His mind flashed to Jean Valjean. Jarvet felt a self-loathing so deep that he could feel the very darkness oozing from his soul. He could not stay in the room a moment longer. 

 Outside was no better as he looked around at the schoolboys killed by the very institution he had sworn his whole life protecting.

 

A banging noise like a heavy weight being scrapped painfully against metal sounded, He opened a door trying to find the cause of the noise. Jarvets duty as a investigator called loud and clear and Jarvet followed the noise. Jarvet arrived at a sewer grate where he was surprised to see Jean Valjean crawl out. A weary look upon his weathered face and a boy by his side. Covered in grime and filth it was not too difficult to imagine Jean Valjean as the convict that he was remembered him to be.


 Jean Valjean looked up hopefully at him.
“Its you Jarvet, I knew you would not wait too long, the faithful servant at his post again. This man has done no wrong, he needs his families care.”
“I warned you, I would not give in, I will not be swayed.” He said clinging desperately to his lawful morals in a turbulent sea of doubt.
“Another hour yet and I’m yours, all our debts will be paid,”
Jarvet shook his head. He owed Vajean nothing. Ot was laughable they kept crossing paths.
“The man of mercy comes again and talks of justice.”
“Come now Jarvet, time is short." Valjean pleaded "Look down Jarvet, he’s standing in his grave!" 
Jarvet nodded his approval. He would not let another person die tonight. 
Vajean moved towards him, the boy upon his shoulder. Jarvet drew his gun, already regretting sympathsing with the enemy. He would not be decieved this time. Jarvet would fulfil his final duty at last, find peace and solid certainty again. “One more step and you die.”
Valjean turned towards him, an incredobolus look in his eyes. He stared down the barrel of Jarvets gun with no fear. As if he knew Jarvets hidden heart. He knew that Valjean could easily overpower him, take the gun and kill him dead.
"I see your heart Jarvet, I will not die this night." Jean Valjean called his bluff and turned away taking the boy with him. 

Jarvet cursed himself, staring at the gun as though it was broken. His thoughts turning dark he threw.the tempatiom away. Even when everything was clear and simple he couldnt do the right thing. He was indebted to this man, owned body and soul. The loud splash echoed through the empy corridors.
Jarvet turned away, walking along the stone steps and onto the railing. He stared out into the river. Jean was gone. He was alone. A failure. A sinner. He had been tested.and failed. Despite all his hard work bis sins won put over his duty. 
“Damned if I am owned by a thief. Damned if I yield at the end of the chase. I am the law and the law is not mocked! I'll spit his pity right back in his face! There is nothing on earth that we share! It is either Valjean or Javert!" Jarvets thoughts were.flighing apart as he was screaming hysterically into the darkness of the night.
"Shall my sins be forgotten? Shall this man be believed?" He pictured Valjean telling the world that a respected officer was in love with a convict, and had been for many years. It was easier when he was just a officer, and valjean was just a mayor. "Shall his crimes be reprieved? and now I must begin to doubt. Someone who has never doubted all these years. I have made my heart like stone, and still it aches and trembles. A world I have known, Lost to shadows. Tell me is he from heaven or from hell? I cant quiet tell. Does he know? That granting my love and life today. This man has killed me and condemmed my soul. 
As I am reaching for hope. I fall. The stars are black and cold. As I stare into the void of a world I cannot hold, A man I cannot have. I escape from this world, from loving Jean Valjean, there is nowhere I can hide. There is no way to go on. ” Jarvet shudderded as he looked into the dirty Canal below. Stepping and leaning over the edge. 
Jarvet felt a hand grab the back of his waist coat pulling him back roughly. 
Jarvets eyes was closed. He opened them slowly to see a very pissed off Jean Valjean galring at him.
Jarvet cried. "I have made it into the heavenly gates.
He reached forward and kissed Jean Valjean with passion. Jean valjean kissed back. 
"I thought I lost you. If I didnt have to come back to grab my pocketwatch." 
Jarvet pulled away, frowning. "Am I alive?" He questioned. 
"I pulled you back from the edge love." He looked pitiously at Jarvet. 
Jarvet backed away horrified. 
"Its always you." 
Jean Valjean reached out, "Surely this must mean something ." 
"Answer me this? Are you devil or angel?" 
"I am nothing but a man." Valjean reached out placing his hand on Jarvets chest "Same as you." 
Jarvet allowed himself to be touched. To see where this was going. 
"After many years of punishement, do we not deserve to be happy at last?" 
Jarvet cried. "Dont cry my Love." Valjean cooed. 
"I do." Jarvet admitted. 
Valjean looked at him confused. 
"I do love you."
"As I my love" Valjean kissed his face, kissing away the tears. 
For once in his life Jarvet hoped that Love was enough. Just once. God let it be enough. 


I would like to sincerely thank everyone who has subscribed, commented and Kudosed this fic, honestly did not expect for this fic to get the reception it did and being my first fic posted on ao3 it has really been a nice encouraging welcome to post more future fics on here. So thank you, thank you so much.

Anyways, I posted a crack!epilogue on my ff.net, so if youre interested check it out as im not posting it here for respectability reasons.https://www.fanfiction.net/s/11121635/10/An-Officer-and-a-Mayor

Yes im crazy enough to rewite this 6 years later and add another chapter.

Chapter 10

Jarvet waited outside Marius pomfreys mansion as his partner confessed his sins to the boy. 
Valjean decided it would be for the best for them to disapear in secret. Corsette was getting married and didnt need him anymore. 
Jarvet did not comment, but almost wept himself at the sadness in Jeans eyes. He had turned into a softie since loving Jean.

"Ready to go Undyne." Jarvet scoffed, can you not call me that in public. "Its your name is it not?" Jean accused. Jean has spent many night trying to get Jarvet to reveal his secrets. Admiitedly the most fersome criminal couldnt break his person but one swipe of Valjeans tomgue had him undone.

"Not by choice" he remarked "wait in the car" he urgered pulling put a feather and quill from his bad and openning a quick letter hiding it under a rock in marius front yard.Jean was quiet the 4 hour carriage ride to the chapel. He went into the small cottage showlders slumped and sadness radiating from his being."Jean" he urged "Tell me. what is in your thoughts.""You my love, always."Jarvet rolled his eyes, backing Jean into a corner. Staring him down with a shadow of that feral anger that used to govern him.Jean blanched, sighing, "Relax love. I will tell you. How can you stand a monstrosity such as I? Youve tied yourself to monstor. You should have not come, waste what little years you had left by the side of one such as I."Jarvet grabbed Jeans hand. He was not usually the one comforting. "I wanted to come you fool" he said kissing his hand. "You know I love you. We have struggled, both you and I. Do you remember what you said to me when I tried to end my life."Jean shook his head. Jarvet plaved his hand over Jeans heart. "We are only men. I dont see any Monstors here.""I am sorry. I am missing my Corsette terribly."Jarvet hugged him close. Rubbing his back. "It will be okay Love."

 Jean started teaching Jarvet about the diffrent types of plants in the garden and the diffrence between weeds and plants. Jean Finally let go of his shame about his scars and ket Jarvet see him unabashedly naked. The next day Jean shaved off all his hair. Jarvet doing the same. I big fuck you to polite society, which had made him nothing but miserable. He had never felt this free and happy. Well, ever. 

Within the Month Corsette and her new Husband showed up. Jean lit up in a way only his daughter could bring out of him. Jarvet smiled fondly.
"Corsette, why are you here? How did you find me?"
Corsette smiled gently looking at Jarvet. Someone left us a letter. 
Jarvet blanched at the feral look jean shot his way. "I was trying to help." He shot back. 
"I know everything papa. Marius told me" Corsette playsated
"I am a monstor." Jean broke down, baring his scars. Your should not sully yourself with one such as I.
"You are my papa." Soothed Corsette.
"After knowing the truth of everything, you still want me to be your papa." 
"Always." She smiled. "I love you, and I already Love Jarvet for the hapiness he brings you." 
Jean hugged corsette. Then hugged Marius and lastly landed next to Jarvets side squeezing an apology with his arthritic hands. 

 In the Morning Corsette awoke to find her papa and Jarvet passed by peacefully in the night hand in hand, peaceful looks on there face.

"Oh Marius" She said burying her face in his shoulder.