Title: Animal Devotion
Work ID: 45208318
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: There are too many tags so I'll update them as I go, A/B/O, ruts n heats, omega/alpha, past trauma, mention of past acts of abuse towards a child, oppressive social dynamics, questionable consent between two stupid old men who can't communicate healthily, Fuck hormones, Sub Javert, Bottom Javert, Omega Javert, Top Valjean, Mentions of past self harm, Dom Valjean, Alpha Valjean, Valjean's a stinky boy and Javert loves it, Sterility
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 8/8


Chapter 1.



 



It is an inevitability that Chabouillet should call him into his office; it is an inevitability that he should command Javert to sit, that he should turn to him, arms folded and say: 



“You have disappointed me.”



Javert is a liar. That much is true, but a liar by omission only (if that gets him any further into the door of Heaven, he does not know but he highly doubts it). 



“You cannot be a police officer,” Chabouillet says and Javert does not argue the point. He merely says,



“Let me prove myself, Monsieur.”



“It is not a matter of proving yourself, Javert,” his superior replies, turning his back once again to squint out of the window, blonde moustache twitching, “if it were, we would not need to speak and I would not be so disappointed. You are an Omega, and you hid that from me.”



“Yes, Monsieur, I suppose I did.”



“Suppose? You most certainly did. You know that Omega’s cannot be police officers, Javert?”



“I had heard such a thing.”



Chabouillet turns to him with a wide-eyed look of disbelief and barks a laugh,



“The stones on you, man.”



“Monsieur,” Javert says, young voice low and firm, “It is true that I am inhibited by my blood in many ways but I have worked amongst hard and dangerous men all of my life and I have never fallen. I have never laid a step from my path. Those brutes hold no appeal to me Monsieur, no mystique or magic that might seduce me. I am wedded and bred to my work, Monsieur, and I could dream of nothing more. I only ask you let me prove this to you. It is not a matter of fighting for the improvement of Omega’s opportunities, of that I care none, I only wish to commit myself and my value to the betterment of society and the upholding of her laws.”



Chabouillet worries his bottom lip and then turns his back again. 



“Javert,” he says and there is a pregnant pause in which Javert wisely keeps his lips tight, “Javert I see in you real potential: that is what makes this so hard. I wish that you had told me.”



“Would you have seen potential in me then, sir?”



Chabouillet tenses and then sighs, shoulders sagging,



“I cannot give you this opportunity in Paris, Javert, it is industrious with Alpha’s and their criminal kin. It is too much of a risk.”



“Monsieur,” Javert interrupts, perhaps unwisely, most certainly with a gruff rudeness he should not dare, “I have been working in Paris for almost a year without issue- surely!”



“No, Javert!” Chabouillet barks, and Javert shrinks back once more slipping into his place, “I am being generous with you to give you any opportunity at all, by all rights I should be sending you out on your ear. Do you know of the harassment I would get if it were to become public knowledge that I have introduced an Omega police officer? Of course you have not considered that. Why should you? You are blind to the complicated politics of the world. It is thugs and jailers to you and nothing more. I will assign you elsewhere. I had already decided, I mean more that I had considered somewhere. A quiet, developing town: Montreuil-Sur-Mer. It is a small town, an inconspicuous place where I insist you keep yourself out of trouble. You can do two things to satisfy me Javert: prove to me that you can work without your nature impeding you, or, better yet, find yourself an Alpha to claim you. One with good standing in society who will not cause me any problems and who will protect you from any attempts at future claims.”



Javert’s eyebrows have raised and his face paled at that order, his lips thin and livid. When his superior turns pin him with a look he nods a short, curt dipping of his head. Chabouillet’s eyes cringe in sympathy but he does not rescind his order, instead he turns away and says,



“Dismissed.”



 



Javert is angry. He is angry at himself, he is angry at the world, he is angry at God, he is angry at the vast expanse of Nature and all of the different types she might have given him only to choose to make him as he is: a gay, Omega, dark-skinned gypsy. It is a rotten hand and he has no chance to draw again. Instead, he spits on luck and turns to practicality. He will work hard, he will keep himself in control, he will prove to Chabouillet that he is not a simpering weakling like the common Omega and he will take his rightful place once more amongst the Paris prefecture with no taint on his record beyond those of his birth. He arrives in M-Sur-M sturdied and strengthened by these ambitions. M-Sur-M is indeed a boring town. He can feel it the moment he arrives, it is in the cool sea air and the quiet cobbled streets, and the faces of of the simple empty-minded people. He is a hunting dog assigned to watch over his master’s slippers. 



He feels the collar pinch tight at his neck as he enters his new police station. The men here are peasant types, or peasant types in practicality: they are indolent, disorganised, and illogical. All of that will change. Like a sheepdog he wastes no time nipping at the sheep’s’ heels until they begin to move to his tune. They do not like him here and he thinks they will grow quickly to hate him. He curls his lip at that and thinks that it is right. If he wanted to be liked he would have learnt to lie.



 He is in M-Sur-M for over a week before he deigns it is worth his time to finally visit this factory. 



There is a smell in the factory that he initially mistakes for some chemical product or material used in production. It is as he ascends the steps to the office that he realises with a squinting of his eyes that it is the smell of an Alpha: musky and hot. He steels himself, hands clenching and then releasing. It is always a different game interacting with an Alpha: too assertive and they take it as a challenge, too submissive and they take it as an invitation. He must get a sense of the man and temper his behaviour. He pulls his scarf tight around and up to his chin to avoid being accused of showing his neck, then knocks on the door and waits. There is an uncomfortable drawn-out silence and then a soft voice calls him in. It surprises him but he conceals it and opens the door. The man seated behind the desk is as Javert expects: broad, powerful, his dominance writ in his physique; and yet he is the complete opposite of what Javert expects: meek, shoulders hunched, body slumped as though he is attempting make himself seem smaller, his head bowed and his expression passive. When he looks up and finds Javert watching him silently from the doorway this expression changes into one of fear, like the look of a rabbit spying the hawk. Javert is surprised by this until he realises in a second, only a flicker of a second, that there is something familiar about this man. It passes as quickly as the look of fear passes from the man’s face.



“Monsieur,” Javert says gruffly, feeling somehow young and vulnerable, like a teenager deepening his voice, “I am the new Inspector in Montreuil. I have been making my rounds amongst the wealthy and influential introducing myself. I was informed you were such a one for me to visit.”



“Yes,” the man says, face pale and carefully schooled in a way that makes the hair on the back of Javert’s neck stand on end. He pauses and then Javert watches as his nostrils flare and his cheeks slightly flush. Now, Javert thinks, now I will see the Alpha. He prepares himself but the change does not come. Instead, the man seems to retire more, eyes darting down to his papers as he shuffles them pointlessly,



“Well, Monsieur Inspector it seems we are introduced. It is a pleasure to meet you. I am Monsieur Madeleine; you are welcome to look about my factory and offer any safety precautions you deem fit. I will not keep you any longer.”



This is strange. This is very strange. Javert almost wants to ask him: Can you not smell me? I have seen you scent me. Instead, he dips into a short bow and turns on his heel, pulling the door behind him shut. He does not search the factory. He is stunned, mind shuttering and false-starting. He has never had such a reaction, never met an Alpha that has receded from him upon catching his smell. It is… almost insulting. The man is a pervert, he thinks. Perhaps he is one of those Alpha’s who seeks out other Alpha’s to dominate him. Yes, that must be it. 



Yet still something niggles at Javert even in the evening, when he sits in his new home in his solitary chair at his lonely table. It is annoying. He has grown more offended by the perceived slight and he sniffs himself to reassure himself that he does still smell as he has always smelled. It then occurs to him that he knew that face, or those shoulders, or something about the man. Yes, something had been familiar. What? This further niggles. He does not like niggling. He scratches his coarse beard and wrinkles his brow. There is something strange about Monsieur Madeleine, perhaps it is that he is a pervert, if it is not: Javert will seek it out.



Chapter 2.



 



He endeavours to make Montreuil-Sur-Mer less boring; he endeavours to show his worth. Of course there is crime, even in this timid place, and he sniffs it out with a ruthless and tireless determination. Soon the town is bustling with activity, with fear and disbelief at the discovery that there is in fact a criminal element within their sleepy seas-side town! The arrogance of them. Where there is money - no- where there is humanity there is crime. What M-Sur-M lacks is Alpha's and Javert has to admit that he finds relief in that. He does not spend so much time looking over his shoulders, he does not so often mediate his voice. He is so busy in fact that he almost forgets about that one troublesome creature with the factory. Almost, but not completely. The sea air reminds himself somewhat of Toulon. But this place is not Toulon, and it is only when his sensitive nose picks up that musky smell again that the force of those memories strike him. The cramped, enclosed space, the intolerable heat, the dirt, the lice, the fleas, the salty sea air which cracked your lips and stung your eyes, and the smell! The unholy smell of Alpha upon Alpha, the testosterone fuelled nightmare stench. Territorial scent-mark over territorial scent-mark, and when those blended into one indiscernible stink the smell of piss: each man seeing who could mark his scent highest. Pathetic. If there is anything that kills desire it is lice and piss and stink. When he smells that musk now, he thinks of those things and itches all over. Still, he follows that smell, stalks it through the streets until he comes upon the beast that emanates it. 



The figure is immediately recognisable, bundled up in shapeless clothing though he is, and Javert finds it galling that it is so. There is nothing about this man worth his interest. The figure walks with stooped shoulders, hands deep in his pockets, head bowed and, as Javert watches, he stops to place something in a beggar woman's hand. No mind, Javert thinks, it is no crime to be naive. Still, he finds himself following, stalking with that natural quietness so admired in Omega's: the ability to shut up and stay out of sight until you're needed. He watches as the figure stops again to pass out another token and he curls his lip. They enter into a particularly run down street and from those narrow corridors winding off in many directions appear beggars and haggard creatures that swarm upon that ignorant, bowed beast. Javert announces himself with a bark like a dog and the stomp of his cane on the cobbles and the pale, gaunt faces turn to him in horror and just as quickly disperse like phantoms into the night. Monsieur Madeleine has also turned to him, face ashen, eyes wide, mouth open and Javert is suddenly struck by how odd it is that the Alpha had not smelt him. He approaches, cane clacking on the cobblestones with every step,



"Monsieur, it is dangerous to travel these streets alone so late at night."



The man's lips are almost grey as he purses them into a thin, aggrieved line,



"Forgive me, Inspector, you startled me. Yes, I suppose so, however, I like the quiet of the evening to fulfill my Christian duty."



Javert almost laughs but manages to restrain himself to the curl of a lip.



"Forgive me, Monsieur, if I should come across as disrespectful but the only Christian Alpha's I have heard of were the Crusaders and I cannot see what you crusade against here."



The man seems to firm at that, shoulders pulling back, chest broadening, and that familiar grotesque tingle trembles Javert,



"Poverty." Monsieur Madeleine replies, "it is poverty."


 


They do not see eye to eye. In Javert's mind it is hard work that cures poverty and a lack of it that is the true social ailment. To Madeleine it is some cruel, intangible spectre of capital that grinds down the peasant classes. This is of course nonsense. The duty of the law is to protect and serve each man to the level he deserves it and if this were not the case then, yes, perhaps he could concede the poor are poorly treated, but as it is they are served by the law as anyone is and, so, served by that state. If I can do it, Javert thinks (silently cursing his lot,) anyone can.



His opinion of Madeleine the factory owner does not change. He finds the man insipid, weak, ignorant and naive. He is handsome yes, in a plain way. He creeps around town during the day, flinching and grimacing at company, and prowls like some ghoulish nightstalker when the night falls. He is awkward and cringing and false, only showing any true warmth when handing out his strange little dolls to the children that busy the streets. For some reason the people love him. For some reason he avoids Javert like the plague. Javert is keeping his head down and his arrests up and so he turns his attention elsewhere. It is late one evening after writing out a letter to Chabouillet (attempting to make a particularly dull arrest seem like a victory) that the thought occurs to Javert that he has been set up, that the goal of sending him here to this quiet town was to make it impossible to prove himself. He swears loudly and dashes the letter from the table spilling the oh so expensive ink on the floor. His anger is immediately overcome by annoyance as he is forced to clean it or risk paying a fee to the matriach he rents the room from. When he's done, hair wild and hands ink stained, he sits on the floor in a heap. Will his life never come to more than this? If this has been a trap, he must escape it. He is wilier than any rat. He thinks and in a moment of what must be sheer madness fuelled by desperation he comes up with a marvellous solution.



He takes his plan to Monsieur Mouse (as he has come to call Madeleine in the privacy of his mind) one late evening after the factory is closed. Of course, the man leaves the building open and unguarded- fool. He paces up the steps mind lighting as the waft of hormones pass over him in waves and he knocks sharply. The voice quavers unsure,



"Come in?"



Javert throws open the door and steps in, all assertion, all dominance. The 'Alpha' (as he is in biology only) pales,



"Uh, yes, Inspector?" 



"Monsieur," Javert says, smiling almost, "it seems I have come up with a solution to our little problem."



"Our problem?" Madeleine answers, blinking stupidly,



"Yes," Javert strides across the room. He has never been this much himself in front of an Alpha and the feeling is heady. He pulls out the chair opposite the desk with a flourish, adjusts his coat with suitable drama, and sits, leaning forward. 



"Monsieur, you are aware that I am an Omega,"



"Y-yes," somehow the man seems to pale further,



"You are no doubt aware of the restrictions that places upon my life and career. I am a far superior Inspector than required by this town, on that we can both agree. The truth is I was placed here because of the nature of my birth. My superior has supplied me with one option to solve my dilemma, to enable me to serve France as I wish. You and I are both aware that you are a weak and meek man, prone to shyness and retiring to the privacy of your home. Monsieur you are rich and handsome and single and have had no luck attracting a partner. I am ugly and independent and have no desire for one. You will be single forever, just as I am. I know this because I know Omega's; whatever Omega ends up pursuing you will not do so because of your Alpha attraction but because you are weak and rich, she will make your life a nightmare and you will spend all of your time trying to be free of her. I propose a solution for both of us. Monsieur you claim me. You claim me then I go to Paris alone and you remain here a hermit. There need be no love between us, only a perfunctory mating on occasion for which I will come here to save you the effort. I think this is a fine solution."



And with that, he drew away his scarf and lifted his chin to expose the long expanse of his throat,



"Go ahead."



Madeleine stared at him, dumbstruck, mute. A pang of annoyance passed through Javert, the thought that maybe the man was incapable of doing even this basic Alpha function.



"Come along!" He snapped and suddenly the mood shifted. The man before him unbowed, the shoulders drew back, the chest widened, the eyes hardened, and some treacherous part of Javert trembled and grew weak and slivered down into his loins' making him gulp. 



"Monsieur Inspector, I cannot imagine what has drawn you to these conclusions," Madeleine rumbled, rumbled in the deep Alpha baritone that vibrated up from that immense span of chest. Now Javert blinked, mind ticking over slowly as though it were dragging itself through mud. It occurred to him that in fact that was the biggest chest he had ever seen. That this was the biggest Alpha he had ever seen, and he felt himself grow pale and flush at the same time. His hand shot up to his own throat with the speed of a viper and Madeleine rumbled,



"You are right to cover yourself. I am willing to forget this imposition. You may leave. Do not presume to proposition me again."



Javert found himself leaping from his seat as if burned. He snatched up his scarf and fled, metaphorical tail between his legs, whimpering almost like a beaten dog. He did not even draw closed the door behind him, furthering his shame by allowing the man to watch him flee. 



He did not recover until he was safely within the walls of his meager room and there he despaired. He sniffed himself all over, he examined his throat, his face, his body- so undesirable! All these years he had thought he remained single because he had no interest in mating- now it seemed it was because he was unwanted! What was wrong with him? His face was ugly, yes, he lacked the basic training of Omega's in housekeeping, socialising and entertaining, yes, he was independent, highly strung, dominant, stubborn… my god. He thought, sinking onto the bed. I will be unmated forever. 



He went through a terrible phase of despair which was only compounded by the realisation that he would be in M-Sur-M forever, having to look on that man's face for the rest of his life: knowing he had repulsed him. He felt shame, he felt grief, he felt anger at himself because he hadn't wanted Monsieur Madeleine anyway and why had he given him such power in his life? He felt a fool. This was all wonderfully solved in one foul swoop one afternoon.



The cart sat upon Monsieur Fauchelevent like a comfortable cat lying upon its master’s face, slowly smothering him in his sleep. This was unfortunate and Javert, in best circumstance, would do something about it but it was not best circumstance and nobody liked Fauchelevent much besides so it was not the worst thing to happen in M-Sur-M. That is when Monsieur Madeleine arrived, drawn no doubt by the opportunity for action. 



“We must free him! Will no man help me lift this cart?”



Javert lets him ask, lets him flash his money before he intrudes,



“Monsieur it is not a lack of desire that stalls them but a lack of strength. I have only known one man capable of such an act. An Alpha, a prisoner in Toulon by the name of Jean Valjean.”



Madeleine surprises him once more, shooting him a look of despair that Javert finds momentarily incomprehensible until he shucks off his jacket and holds it out for the Inspector to take. Javert takes it, then watches in silence as the man squeezes himself beneath the cart. The people cry out, in disbelief, in fear, in horror but the man does not listen. He… lifts the cart. Javert trembles once more, his body weak, his nostrils flaring. Madeleine’s legs shiver, his arms flex, his face reddens, the veins on his neck and forehead bulge and the smell… the smell rolls off of him in waves and it strikes Javert like a fist to the face. It is a familiar smell, powerful and masculine and it carries with it the scent of the sea and then the stench of sweat and urine and sickness. Javert does not startle, he is paralysed, he stares and, as he stares, he finds Madeleine raises his eyes and they meet. Those eyes, they carry the depth of the unexplored jungle, they carry the threat of the deep unknown earth, they are fearsome, they are fearless, they are knowing in such a way that they transpose that knowing onto Javert’s mind and in that moment Javert knows him completely. Then Fauchelevent is being pulled from beneath the cart and it is thumping down into the mud and Madeleine is retrieving his jacket from Javert’s frozen fingers and leaving.  



This is wonderful news. It means that Javert can prove himself by arresting one of the most dangerous escaped convicts in France. It means that ‘Madeleine’s’ rejection of of Javert is because of his own fear and guilt and not because Javert is undesirable. This leaves the back-up option of being claimed open. Not that Javert will need it. Her eagerly writes his letter of condemnation and posts it to Chabouillet. Then the worst happens. Then once more life kick’s Javert in the gut; Madeleine is made mayor. 



Time passes and once more Javert falls into an angry stupor. He despairs that Chabouillet will never answer, he despairs that Chabouillet will answer and answer in the negative. He does not hear back from Chabouillet.



Deep in mid-winter he is humiliated. Mayor Madeleine (the title brings bile to his mouth) turns him aside, throws law and order into disregard, insults a victim and praises a criminal. There is no coming back from that. More importantly there is no coming back from the confrontation in the police station. There is no coming back from the fact that with a look and a low word Jean Valjean, escaped convict, takes mastery of Javert; sends him away once more with his tail low. Javert is disgusted with himself, disgusted by how his body trembles and his skin prickles and his legs move of their own accord. Of how so easily he gives up any power, any hard-won independence. He is as Chabouillet feared he would be. It is right that Omega’s should not be police officers. He almost gives up then and there but he refuses to let the convict win. He will destroy the man, then perhaps he will send himself away, somewhere lonely, somewhere he can labour in peace unknown by anyone.  



It is not to be. Chabouillet replies to his letter and it devastates him. He carries himself head bowed, soul defeated to the mayor’s office and knocks a meek, quiet rap on the door.



“Enter,” comes the gentle response.



He enters and gentleness leaves. Instead, there is a tense, terse tolerance in its place. He deserves it. 



“Monsieur,” he begins, voice low and quavering, “I come to report on a dangerous criminal.”  



The mayor’s thick, dark, proud brows raise on his noble forehead. How could Javert not see it before? The healthy commanding moustache, the high intelligent forehead, the twinkling, noble eyes. The man is every bit the gentleman, and with the immense span of chest bracketed by square powerful shoulders he is every bit the Alpha. He flushes with shame.  



“A criminal? Who?”



“Me, Monsieur, I have been a spy. I have been a traitor. I must be put out.”



“Spied? On who?” Madeleine continues, no doubt attempting to protect Javert the shame of his obvious knowing (how could he not know?)



“On you, Monsieur. I have accused you of being a criminal. A blackgard and a vagabond.”



Madeleine chuckles at that,



“For intervening in your arrest of Fantine?”



“For being the escaped convict, Jean Valjean.”



The mayor goes livid. He stares.



“Excuse me?”



“I am sorry, Monsieur,” he rushes, fumbling over his words, “Forgive me- I cannot ask you to forgive me! I have disrespected you, I have undermined your authority, I have undermined the rule of law, the order of society. Monsieur,” he says, “You have tolerated me admirably after my initial insult, but instead of showing gratitude I have compounded that insult.” 



Madeleine does not answer, he only stares, lips tight and cheeks drawn. Javert finds himself with nothing left to say, he wishes to justify himself he wishes to explain, he cannot. Instead, he grasps at the man, taking one broad coarse hand in his own trembling, unworthy appendages, and brings it to his lips for an intense but chaste kiss. Then he draws away and flees to the door,



“Monsieur le Mayor,” He says, turning briefly but refusing to lift his eyes, “I will resign my position.”



“No.”



”I must.”



“No. You have done good work.”



“I have been spiteful. I have been unjust. I must.”



“I will not let you resign your post. You should be promoted instead.”



“I will stay then, until I can find a suitable replacement,” Javert pauses, then turns and bows. He has failed once more: refused the direct order of a superior. He makes his leave. 



Chapter 3.



 



The story does not end there. Javert does not get to give up hope. He does not find a replacement and he does disappear into the dim nothingness of obscurity, digging holes in the ground, working his body to breaking point and dying alone in some hovel. Instead, he goes to court and, as he brushes down his horse, he hears that a man has appeared at the trial of Jean Valjean and revealed that he is in fact the criminal. Better yet, he hears that the true Jean Valjean is none other than Mayor Madeleine of Montreuil-Sur-Mer. He does not believe it. He does believe it. He is delighted. He is enraged. He is delighted again. He leaps upon his horse and makes his way back to M-Sur-M, triumphant. An avenging angel. 



 



The arrest of Jean Valjean is a masterful victory. Javert overcomes. He is not cowed, he is not manipulated, he remains tall and strong and dominant. Oh Valjean tries, he wheedles and whines and flutters his eyes, he intimidates, he postures, he fails. Javert arrests him, single-handedly, and knows that his future is assured. Jean Valjean the dangerous criminal is returned to his rightful place in Toulon prison and Javert is returned to his rightful place among the Paris prefecture, more lauded and respected than before. His career is fulfilling, his arrests exciting and frequent. His reputation brings with it new opportunities, and better: a layer of protection from hungry Alpha’s. Of course, there are those that find his reputation as fearless and independent as an invitation to master him but Javert’s experience defying the power of Jean Valjean has emboldened him and he is more than willing to make his suitors aware that he is not worth a prison sentence. Yet, he is not happy. His work grows to bore him. Valjean’s captivity concerns him. The guards at Toulon are ignorant to the wiliness of the criminal, of his cunning, his physical strength and his masterful acting. He writes letters demanding to know of Valjean’s treatment, of how they are watching him, of who is watching him, of his behaviour. The letters do not please him, they do not ease the nagging feeling at the back of his mind. He should go there himself he thinks, he should check himself. He does not. It is a foolish thought and he endeavours to put Valjean out of his mind.



 



Then one day he lifts the paper and his eye catches on an article. The breath exits his body. His mind grows numb. He says,



“That is a good article.” and he drops it to the tabletop.



It should not concern him. It merely means he no longer has to write letters.



 



Work continues on as it always does and one day Javert finds himself saying,



“What more is there to Javert’s life than this? What more will he make? What more will he achieve?” 



He has never had to ask this question before. He wonders if it is a biological imperative and so he ceases to outright deny those Alpha’s he meets. Instead, he entertains them, judges them, weighs them; they all disappoint them. There is some mark he holds them against which they all fail to meet. They are small minded, they are ignorant, brutish, ruled by their desires, or by their desire to assert themselves in society, they are whimsical, they are conceited, they all fail to reach… what? Some ideal of the Alpha Javert holds in his mind. He cannot define it anymore than to say ‘that is not it’. He is once again frustrated by himself. He gives up.



 



Once more life will not let him. 



 



He hears of a man: the beggar who gives alms. This man intrigues him only as much as anything unusual does until one day he is manhandling a beggar and a smell catches his nose. He searches the old man’s pockets and finds a coin, without shame he brings it to his nose and breathes in. Yes, weak and faint but a familiar smell. He presses the coin into the pocket of his jacket,



“Where did you get this?”



“The beggar who gives alms!”



 



It is enough for Javert. He tells no one. He conspires to borrow a disguise and positions himself by a fountain, hand held out in supplication. The evening comes and the cold creeps in and he huddles there almost despairing until the chill wind brings on a slight and subtle scent. His stomach drops, his heart flutters. It cannot be. The man approaches him but Javert dare not raise his head. A coarse hand presses a coin into his palm and the shock that passes through Javert at that touch draws his head up against his own will. He meets Valjean’s eyes. It is Valjean. He is sure of it. They stare at each other in mute shock, Javert’s mouth is dry but he is unable to swallow. Valjean turns and begins to walk away. It is not Valjean. It could not be Valjean. The man is old, bowed, decrepit. It is Valjean. It is not Valjean. Javert staggers to his feet and follows. He must know. 



 



He traces the scent, head low, mouth open and panting. They arrive at the Gorbeau house and he almost slaps his forehead because of course! He rents a room. He cannot hear Valjean but as night falls into the deepest and darkest of hours he creeps down the corridor and sniffs from door to door until he finds it: heady and musky and masculine. He bends at the knees and peers through the keyhole, it is impossible to see anything. He presses his nose to the keyhole shamelessly huffing in the scent. He breathes it in until he grows breathless and dizzy. There is no doubt it is Valjean, no doubt. It is his smell, heavy and thick, slightly spiced, deep and dark like the most expensive chocolate, tanged by the sour and salt of sweat. He wipes his mouth and snuffles again at the keyhole then draws himself away as though burnt and flees back to his room, mind swimming. His first thought is to rush to the prefecture and gather a police party, yet his stomach turns at the thought, no: Valjean is his. His victory, his prey, he cannot bear the thought that he should give that up. He decides instead that he will catch Valjean himself. He does not fear the man, he has overcome him once before and he will overcome him again. This is a fateful mistake.



 



By the yellow lamplight he pursues Valjean and the mysterious child through the streets of Paris. It is a foolish attempt, Valjean cannot escape him; even the stench of the Seine cannot conceal his smell. Besides that, Javert has introduced the usage of two Alpha’s from the prefecture. They have no idea of the identity of their prey but they needn’t know to be caught up in the thrill of the chase. They are soon accompanied by three soldiers, all of whom think the thought that five Alpha’s might be necessary to capture one Old Bull is hilarious. Javert has to very harshly remind them that their prey, despite his aged appearance, is no Old Bull yet. He still has plenty of strength in him yet and Javert has no doubt he will give all five of them a run for their money. Of course they all take immense insult at this but it only fuels their desire to capture their prey and that makes them useful. Proud, Javert thinks scornfully, Arrogant. They do not know who they’re dealing with. His excitement only grows as they reach the highest point of the bridge and look down on Valjean standing haloed by moonlight in the square. Javert does something mad then, something that could see him torn apart by the Alpha’s that surround him but he doesn’t think: he dives his hand into his trousers and swipes the sweat from between his legs and holds up his hand for the wind to take the scent. The Alpha’s around him stir, that twitching of muscles, the darkening of eyes that herald’s danger but he has no eyes for them. Instead, he watches the slow lifting and then angling of the old man’s head as he turns to look back at the bridge. Javert grins, a wide tigers smile all teeth and then he is running, long legs pumping carrying him towards the square, towards Valjean and the fleeing child. The Alpha’s pursue him, half hunting their prey and half hunting him, the urge to chase and the lingering smell blurring the line in their minds. Javert knows the streets Valjean flees into, it is a rabbit warren full of dead ends. It’s perfect, he could not have picked a more ideal setting for their final confrontation.



 



He slows down as he enters the warren, sniffing the air, exulting in the tinge of fear that taints Valjean’s scent. The Alpha’s at his heels are restless at the pace he has set, they wish to run and keep running, they are still plains-hunters at heart and they want nothing more than to bellow and grunt and spear a mammoth. 



“Fan out,” Javert says, making sure to keep the policemen with him (he’s no fool.)



They separate and Javert follows his nose, grinning ear to ear. He does not find Valjean.



 



He does not find Valjean!



How!



 



He can smell the man! He can smell him all throughout the dead-end alley! How! The man is a magician! Javert howls. The Alpha’s return to him, vibrating with frustration, mentally and emotionally prepared for a fight. Without that release a scuffle quickly breaks out between the police officers and the soldiers, one group wanting Javert as compensation and the other repressing the desire to protect their careers. Javert ignores them, pacing the wall huffing and panting, attempting to figure out what door or window Valjean somehow escaped through. When the fight turns too severely in the soldiers’ direction, he chooses to flee instead making the long angry run back towards the prefecture. He does not despair, he seethes. He’s not sure exactly how old Valjean is, no doubt not even Valjean knows, but the chances are he will be reaching his Old Bull age sooner rather than later and that puts a severe timer on how long Javert has to chase him. His smell will begin to change and Javert has no idea how much it will change only that when it does, he will be harder to identify. He comes to a staggering stop outside of the prefecture, panting clouds, legs burning, and turns his face up the moon. It is a pale and distant as that halo of white hair and he bows his head before it, resting his hands on his knees to catch his breath. Then he reaches into his jacket pocket and pulls out the coin bringing it to his nose and then to his mouth, tasting the fading scent, 



“I will find you,” he gasps, gritting and grinding his teeth, body trembling, “I will have you, Jean Valjean, before the year is out.”



Chapter 4.



5 Years later 



 



Javert has not seen Jean Valjean in five years. By God, he has scented him, by God, he has stood at that wall and lifted his nose to the air and trembled like a dog barking from behind a fence. He cannot get to Jean Valjean, he cannot ease the growing ache in his body to lay his claws upon him and bite and gnash and- 



The scent changes, it grows deeper, smoother, like oiled wood, Javert opens his mouth and gulps it down and tries to memorise it. Then one day the scent has gone. He had not realised it had been fading, he curses himself. Valjean is gone. His claws turn inward, ripping, but he refocuses and puts his mind to pursuing Patron-Minette.



 



This satisfies him… for a while. As everything seems to. 



 



One evening, vibrating with anticipation, he apprehends them in that hideous old hovel the Gorbeau house. They have captive some white-haired old man and Javert almost disregards him so busy is he kicking awake their watch-man and ignoring the plaintive and pathetic attempts at romancing from their Alpha brute Gueulemer (who suffers a terrible mocking from that pretty little omega-impersonator Montparnasse.) The smell is so well covered by the stench of the house it is only after a gentle wind blows it back in the window that he pauses. The tilts his head. He turns and paces to the window, pauses again and looks about,



"Where is their victim?"



And there, in but a flash, is the realisation. He cries out and pounds down the stairs, almost putting a boot through the floorboard before he's stumbling out into the night. 



 



He turns his open mouth to the sky and breathes, breathes and breathes until he's coughing, lungs choking on the freezing night air. Valjean is gone. 



"Out!" He barks, "Out!" Sending out Patron-Minette and prefecture alike until he is alone. He stares out of the window. He paces. And then he drops to the floor and presses his nose to the seat where the old man sat. He drags his face across it huffing in the smell, familiar and yet changed; aged like a fine wine. He takes out a handkerchief and, with a trembling hand, wipes it over the surface and then brings it to his nose to test: the smell is weak but present. He can smell the Old Bull in Valjean, that hormonal change that beckons in the third stage of his life. He will be both harder and easier to catch now: less aggressive and so less dangerous to apprehend, but more patient and so more cunning. It only makes the prospect of victory sweeter. He rises to his feet.



 



A horrible sense of shame passes over him, a flavour of shame he had only felt in his youth. A desire has taken hold of him and he glances at the chair seat with guilty nervous eyes. It has been a long time since he has been seized by such an unhealthy ideation.



 



 It was Valjean who had seduced him last time; when he had been young. In his youth he had still had… not ruts, he had never been cursed with having those, but he had had times of the season where he would smell more powerfully, when he would drive the Alpha's wild with his presence. The wisest move was to stay away, he had personally watched unfortunate Omega prisoners be torn apart by warring Alpha, but he had not acted wisely. No. A madness would fall over him in those days and he would descend into the depths of hell until he stood before those Alpha cages. How they had beaten themselves against the bars for him, but their savage pleas had meant nothing. He had only seen one man: the man who looked but did not ask. They had stood, separated only by a few feet and those iron bars and they had met eyes and Javert had willed him- what? He did not know, even now. They had paced together, back and forth like tigers, eyes never drifting and Valjean- Valjean had wanted him. There had been a dark loathsome sort of desire there, one filled with contempt and hatred, but Valjean had never begged for him, never barked for him, roared or rattled his cage or reached with grasping hands. The memory brought a deep flush of shame to Javert's face. Not only because of his youthful indulgence but because of how powerfully he could remember those eyes, dark and hard and holding Javert like a moon in the clutches of a planet's gravity. Before he could grow too aware of his own disgrace he dropped to his knees once more and dragged his tongue over the breadth of the seat, then he stood as quickly, wiped his mouth and fled. 



 



He could not flee from his act. He tasted Valjean late into the night and did not eat for fear of losing it. He tossed and turned and pulled on his whiskers and groaned in agony because he did not - could not- rut but still something compelled him from sleep and from sanity. I must have him, he thought, burying his teeth in his thin pillow, I must have him!



 



The years wore the hope from Javert. He often felt he caught scent of Valjean but could never catch sight of him, like chasing the wispy tail of a dream. He let these thoughts pass through his mind as he tested his head back against the wood pillar. The rope chafed his throat red but he had experienced pain many times in his long life and this was easily ignored in favour of turning over the successes and failures of his past. The emphasis seemed to be on the failures. Primarily the absence of what would have been his greatest achievement. The cries of the doomed boys had long since faded behind the haze of pain and it took him several minutes to realise that the shooting had stopped. It was no relief, only a holding back of the one inevitable. In some ways it would be kinder to simply and quickly kill the boys rather than dragging out their fear and grief. Handing out that mercy was not within his power. A shadow fell across the window and Javert sighed, then paused and breathed in again. His nose was filled without blood, muffling any scent but something still tasted familiar. 



 



He lowered his chin to peer through bleary eyes as a figure filled the doorway. Their eyes met. Valjean, broad shoulders straining his red and blue guards uniform, turned to the only Alpha of the rebels,



"If you will give him to me, I will deal with him."



"You are welcome to him," the blonde pup replied. Still young, still full of that Alpha vitality, that passion and desire to do without fear of consequences. What a contrast they made: young and old, hot and cooled. 



Valjean approached and Javert remained silent but for the hissing of his breath between his teeth. 



"He disgusts me," the boy said. Enjolras? Yes, that was the face to the name. 



Valjean took Javert by the rope and hoisted him to his feet, riding up his groin in a way that was both painful and brought a nervous flush to his cheeks. They walked together in an uneven stumble to the door.



"You disgust me," Javert hissed as they passed, "Will your pride still serve you when these boys lay dead at your feet?"



"I will lay dead with them."



"All the more a waste."



Valjean tugged at the rope with a grunt and Javert staggered, turning his back to the youth, he was forced instead to keep his eyes down for fear of staring at the powerful figure that drew him along. Had that not always been the way? Had he not always been staggering just a few steps behind?



 



They turned into an alley and Valjean's broad powerful hands are turning him and so easily pressing him into the brick. Something in Javert is broken, is weak, and he tips up his chin and closes his eyes. He listens as Valjean breathes heavily, sawing through the rope between Javert's feet and then he straightens and the breath halts. Javert remains still.



"What do you mean?" Valjean says, voice low and rough but not unkind. Javert denies him an answer. 



The cool flat of a blade presses against Javert's neck,



"Kill me then," he says, voice cracking, "if you insist."



Valjean exhales. The knife leaves Javert's neck but he does not open his eyes, only asks,



"Have you hungered for this?" 



"No." Valjean replies. There is no room for uncertainty.



Javert swallows, adam's apple bobbing heavily. There is a pause and the broad, powerful heat of Valjean's body is moving closer, not touching just pressing Javert into the wall. The heat moves at his throat and there is the gentle exhalation of hot breath over prickling skin. Javert's head tips to offer more of the skin beneath his jaw and Valjean huffs in three quick puffs. He remains still,



"I don't understand you," Valjean grunts.



What is there to understand? Javert wonders.Is it such a shock to discover I am no stronger than my biology?



He does not speak. 



"What do you want from me?" Valjean rumbles again, hot breath sending trembles through every inch of Javert's body.



"Tell me," Valjean rumbles, "I need you to say it with words."



"I'd rather die," Javert croaks.



"I cannot do that for you."



The heat of Valjean's body recedes and Javert feels himself arching from the wall to follow it. He keeps his eyes squeezed closed in shame. 



The knife cuts through the rope between his hands and he sags, defeated, head hanging.



"If I survive you will find me at No. 7, Rue de l'Homme Armé. I live under the name of Fauchelevent. You are free."



"You will never free me."



He cannot bring himself to look at Valjean until he stands at the lowest point of the barricade, then he stops and turns to peer over his shoulder. He cannot control what expression is on his face, he does not know what it is. He does not know what he feels. Valjean stands alone among the wood dust, powerful hands resting at his sides, white hair haloing his wide, handsome head. Javert wishes he knew what those sad eyes said. He turns away and crawls from Valjean's sight.



 



He creeps like a wounded animal, dragging himself through the streets, head bowed and eyes unseeing. He ends up on the doorstep of his own home and paces the old worn floorboards of his room. He sits, restless, at his desk and writes his confession. He rises and paces once more. He changes into his coat and returns to the battlefield. He will have Valjean or he will die.



 



With his mind newly set, he returns to the barricade. It has long been broken and he wonders how long he paced in a stupor. The smell of Valjean has been blasted away by the sulphurous smell of gunfire and he stalks and hunts through the wreckage and bodies growing increasingly terrified. It cannot be so, even when he had believed before it had turned out untrue- why not now? He decides Valjean is alive. With this in mind, he searches for escape routes. When he finds no doors or easily accessible roofs, he instead turns his nose to the ground and sniffs furiously, like the scent-dog he is, searching for that familiar smell. He finds a faint scent that he decides must be Valjean near a sewer grate and takes towards the river, nose in the air and dark eyes hard. 



 



At this proximity, the stench of the Seine wipes out any other and Javert grunts and growls with frustration. He finds a sewer grate, the one closest to the barricade, and rattles the bars like they are the bars of his cage, then he stalls. He stalls because there is no further action he can take. So, he waits. He stands and waits. He waits as the light fades from the heavens, he waits as the heat of the day cools into the cold of night, he waits as the rain begins to fall, soft and delicate almost as though it fears it will wake him from his reverie. He waits because he does not know what he will do if he stops waiting.  Eventually, a key rattles in the door of his prison cell and he stirs, silent and concealed still be darkness.



“Hold there,” says a familiar, slimy voice (slimier even than the gruesome water of the Seine,) “It seems I have done a good deed by you by freeing you of this place.”



“You have been rewarded.”



“You ought to reward me further if you wish for me to keep this meeting to myself.”



There is an angry grunt and Javert steps forward into the light,



“And what doing is that Thernadier?”



“Ho!” Thernadier cries turning to him, placing one bony hand on his bird chest in surprise, “The policeman! It is too late, my friend, I shall have to tell him. Well, Inspector Javert you see I have caught this man red-handed thieving from this body.”



“It is not a body,” the other figure says, “He is alive. He is injured. I am carrying him to safety.”



“A likely story,” Thernadier supplies, raising a convincing eyebrow to Javert,



“And what were you doing skulking in the sewers Thernadier?”



“Me?”



“Come forward into the light man,” Javert says, a lump in his throat and the figure stalls for a moment and then with heavy footsteps drags himself up into the wan starlight. It is a broad, powerful, square figure. A limp in the step. 



“What is your name?” Javert demands. The man pauses,



“You know me well, Monsieur.” He answers and Javert’s heart rushes into his chest, almost bursting.



“Thernadier!” He says, a growl in his voice, lips pulled over his teeth, “You are interceding in the preserving of this young man’s life! I am of the mind that you have been thieving yourself!”



“Never!” Thernadier cries, “I-I am in shock!”



“Be gone with you! Gone from my sight! I will hunt you later. Consider this a reprieve.”



Thernadier snarls, shoots the filthy creature at his side a foul look and creeps again from the light, deep below the ground.



When he is long gone Valjean speaks,



“Javert-”



“Hush, you are filthy. The boy is dead.”



“No, he must be taken home. I have his address.”



“Then I will call a cab.”



Valjean staggers after him,



“Why?” he pants



“A life for a life.”



“I see.”



“You do not see!” Javert snaps as his raises his arm to hail the cab. It rattles to a stop beside them and Javert beckons for Valjean to climb in first. He does and lays the boy out on one side before crawling into his seat on the other, scrunched up against the window making himself as small as possible. Javert takes a moment to stare at him. To stare and soak him in. Then he climbs in after and slams the door. The carriage rattles off.



 



They trundle through the pitch dark of night, rocked by the cobblestones, so close and yet so far. Their knees would touch if Valjean would only uncurl, would only relax. Its a foolish thought. Why would Valjean relax? Javert can’t bring himself to say anything, instead, he stares straight ahead and says nothing as the moonlight slips through the window and disappears over and over.



 



They reach the Gillenormand household, a grand old place, and together they lift the unconscious boy from the carriage and take him up the stairs. The meeting passes in a haze. The old man is an Alpha and although he looks at Javert with poorly concealed distaste he presses his hand just a moment too long. Valjean does not react and it should not strike Javert so deeply but it does. They leave the house in silence. Javert halts at the carriage to allow Valjean to climb in first and asks,



“At what address are you staying?”



“The address I gave you.”



Javert nods grimly. He gives the address and they proceed again.



“I will… I will bathe and then you make take me. I will be yours.”



“No,” Javert grunts.



Valjean pauses, he has hunched with his body twisted, his back to Javert but now he uncurls ever so slightly, turning to look at the man with cautious, uncertain eyes,



“What do you mean?”



“I have made my intentions clear.”



“To yourself perhaps.”



Javert swallows,



“Do not make me speak. Let us ride in silence. I will let you bathe and then we shall talk. I will say this: you do not have to fear me.”



Valjean uncurls and actually rests back in his seat, head tipping back and eyes closing in relief. It eases Javert’s heart some.



 



They arrive at the gates of No. 7 and Javert pays the coach driver as Valjean limps his way up the garden and to the door. They enter together and Javert takes Valjean’s coat to hang it over the coat rack. It’s foul, but they’ll concern themselves with that later. Valjean grunts a breathless disbelieving thanks and then moves into the kitchen to pour himself a bucket of water. With the bucket in hand, he ascends the stairs. Javert follows until Valjean stops at his bedroom door,



“I would like some privacy,” he says as Javert goes to enter after him.



“Of course,” Javert answers, flushing. He steps back and rests against the hallway wall as Valjean quietly eases the door closed. From within there is silence followed by the splashing of water. Javert swallows and lets his eyes draw closed. His imagination has always been poor but he knows Valjean’s body, or knew it once, and he lets himself now play out that performance in his mind: the slow peeling away of clothes, the gentle swiping of cloth over skin revealing the pink flush below. He finds himself growing breathless and draws his wits back to him. It’s disrespectful to think of Valjean in such a way without his agreement, especially in his own home. Still, he finds his nose draws him to the door as the stench of the sewerage is washed away and the smell of that old bull grows. He feels himself grow weak and lets his forehead rest against the bedroom door, breathing in that heady, hypnotic scent. It is strangely easy to let go, here in the warmth and darkness of Valjean’s home where his faint scent permeates everything. 



“You may enter,” Valjean calls and Javert’s heart leaps into his throat at the thought of that body bare, those powerful thighs, the heavy balls resting between them, he opens the door and finds Valjean… dressed, that body hidden beneath a loose shirt and a pair of tan trousers. He hopes he hides his disappointment well. Valjean is sitting on the edge of the bed, hair wet and plastered against his skull. 



“I’m sorry I made you wait, you may sit if you want,” and he gestures to a little chair in the corner of the room. Javert’s fist clenches and flexes at his side,



“I would rather not.”   



Valjean stares at him, his look is not judging, it is kind and gentle and curious and it burns the skin of Javert’s face. He swallows heavily. 



“I smell you,” Valjean says, “You do not need to keep secret what secrets your body already tells.”



Javert sags, it is like all the wind has been blown out of him because of course, of course. He staggers to the chair and falls into it, head in his hand, hair falling from its queue.



“I am weak, Valjean. I have been strong all of my life and I find now I fail. Or perhaps I have been failing for a long time. Perhaps I have been falling and only now realise I am about to hit the water.”



Valjean hums,



“What is it you want from me, Javert?”



“I do not know.”



“I do not believe you.”



“Fine: I am ashamed to say it.”



“There is no shame in it.”



“There is.”



“There is not.”



“You have rejected me once before!”



“You insulted and belittled me.”



“Yes,” Javert concedes, that is true. 



“Besides that, I could not pursue you without truth between us.”



Javert trembles, and then very slowly looks up and out from beneath his fringe,



“And would you?”



“Pursue you?”



“To put it plainly Valjean… could you desire me?”



“It is not a could,” Valjean sighs, opening his hands in supplication, “For I do.”



Javert flushes a deep red, body heating, skin tingling. He sits up,



“You are certain?”



“Yes,” Valjean chuckles, “I’m certain.” He rubs the back of his neck, cheeks flushing in a way that is effortlessly charming. 



“The problem,” Valjean continues, “Is not the could, it is the would. Our history, our relationship, has been complicated. Would it be right? I have asked myself why God would put such a desire in me for a man who holds me in such contempt.”



“I have cursed God the same.”



“I have not cursed him, although I have been angry with him at times but I have questioned and I have failed to understand.”



“I understand now,” Javert says, “and it fills me with self-loathing for all these years I have thought myself the better man, too good for you, and now I see you have always been my superior. I have been over-proud, I have lived a delusion. Even now I cannot believe I dare approach you and yet every part of me yearns for your claim.”



Valjean has flushed, he has paled, he stares at Javert with wide-eyed fear mingled with disbelief,



“Me?” he says and Javert sputters,



“Yes, of course, man! I am an Omega, not a simple Beta looking for one night of affection!”



“Oh,” Valjean answers and he tugs the hem of his shirt from his trousers and begins to wring it in his hands,



There is no answer to that so they sit in an impatient, drawn-out silence. 



"I should write a letter to my daughter and then … perhaps we should eat."



"Very well," Javert grunts and they rise together and make the short uncomfortable trek to the kitchen. 



 



Valjean digs out some various pickled foods of indeterminate age and some salted meat and they eat in silence, both grateful that they have never developed a taste for the finer things. When they're done Javert follows on Valjean's heels to the sitting room where he interrupts Valjean's painful descent to light the fire to insist he lights it himself. Valjean blinks owlishly at him but stands and heads to the dusty table to acquire a pen and paper and begins drafting his letter. Having lit the fire Javert seats himself by it in a threadbare armchair and waits, staring into the shadows of the opposite wall, as Valjean's pen scratches over the paper. After a while the sound stops and Valjean's sigh shows that he too realises that there are no more excuses for ignoring the sword that has been hanging over both their heads. He rises with a grunt and limps to the opposite sofa, drawing away the sheet and sits heavily, hands on his knees. They take a moment to just look at each other in the dim, warm light.



"You would be making a mistake," Valjean says.



"I know."



"I would be an anchor around your neck."



"One I would welcome."



"I might end your career."



"I might end it myself."



"I cannot dissuade you?" Valjean sighs,



"I am stubborn. May I try to dissuade you?"



Valjean pauses and then chuckles, it is small and helpless,



"You may."



"When I make up my mind I do not back down," Javert begins, "I am tall and broad and ugly, all undesirable traits in an Omega, I am argumentative, I am small-minded, I can be cruel, I can be petulant, I am prone to sulking, I am career minded, I am untrained in any fashion fitting for an Omega: I can clean house only so much as any bachelor, I hate small talk or any casual conversation, I do not know how to host a party and I hate them, I cannot cook, I hate being trapped indoors, and…" here he grew bashful, "I am untrained in pleasing an Alpha… the sexual type of pleasing an Alpha." 



Valjean had flushed deeply but he nodded,



"In my favour," Javert said, "I can sew."



There was another fraught silence and then Valjean burst into laughter, head thrown back, stomach heaving and Javert found himself pulled helplessly after him starting as a chuckle and then into a deep laugh, rough from lack of use. 



The laughter faded slowly and they took turns scrubbing their faces and shooting each other shy looks. 



"You know, I never imagined laughing with you," Valjean said, "I found it surprisingly natural."



"Speak for yourself," Javert chuckled, scratching through his beard. Valjean huffed.



"Have I convinced you to refuse me?" Javert asked,



"It was never those factors that perturbed me. I am old enough to clean my own home and cook my own food. And besides, I too am a retiring person. I would rather only associate with my daughter and then only when she requested me so that I did not put upon her. If I have any misgiving it is that … we do not know each other."



"I know you, Valjean."



"You do not. I should hope if you did you would not have hunted me all these years."



"It is true it seems I have only known you this past day, but know you I do," at this he rose and gestured to the space beside Valjean, "may I?" 



"Yes."



Javert sat beside him, knees clenched tight, hands in his lap, fearful almost that they should touch each other. 



“Valjean,” he begins, and he ruminates on the fact that he has practised this speech for the last half an hour and still finds it hard to speak, “I know you. I know you are the best and kindest man I have known, a better man than I might ever hope to be - do not interrupt. You are merciful to a fault, naive but not from idiocy, ignorant to man’s wickedness but by choice; you are generous, selfless, you are unburdened of greed, you are charitable when you need not be, you are uninterested in gossip or the whims of the small-minded, you are noble, you are honest despite being an intolerable liar- do not interrupt. You are a man who has made mistakes, yes, yet despite that barren ground to which you were born you have bloomed into the most magnificent oak. I know oak’s do not bloom, I do not know why I said that only that a flower does not do you justice. I digress. Yes, I am aware you have flaws, no doubt, you must, you are human but I…. if you were to let me, I would make up for all the hardship I have caused you all these years. I would lift any burden that rests on your shoulders, and, although I am not a man particularly devoted to God, I believe I would make you my altar to him,” after a pause he finished, “That’s all.”



He did not dare look Valjean in the eye.



“You profess I am a man but you wish to lift me to the level of an icon.”



“Yes,” Javert said, “No. I worship you, that is all. I would worship you if you would let me.”



“That is against God.”



“Have you asked him?”



“Do not jest, I struggle deeply with my religion. I… I have struggled many years with this yearning for you. I have questioned- as I have often questioned- if you were but another challenge laid at my feet, a test of my willingness to sacrifice in his name. I fear... I fear your offer is but another test.”



Javert looked up then, eyes hard and sharp,



“I am not, by God, I am my own man. I have lived in the shadow of God for years, his light has not shone on me; I have not been his instrument I have been a wild thing, a shade that has wandered the darkness of the world inflicting upon others the ungodliness of his existence.”



Valjean offered him a gentle, amused smile and patted his hand,



“You exaggerate.”



Javert would have been angry at him if that hand, coarse and broad and warm, had not felt so deliriously wonderful resting over his own.



“Valjean,” Javert growled, clasping the offered hand between his own clawed paws, “Do not dare martyr yourself in my name!”



Valjean sighed and Javert growled again,



“Do not test me! This dog will still bite!”



Valjean rolled his eyes at him again, beautiful mouth pulled up in just the shyest approximation of a fond smile. Javert could not hold his tongue,



“Do what you will with me to excuse your acceptance of my gift. Make me go to church, have me re-christened, whip me, beat me, by God-”



Here Valjean darkened, his face falling, thick white brows pulling together over his eyes,



“No, that is not the way I love God. But,” he paused, seeming to wrestle with the words, “you say you wish me to claim you. I cannot do that quickly; I cannot rush to that. I could… I would be willing… you understand that a claim would make me possessor of your mind, body and soul?”



“Yes, and how I hunger for it!”



“You would let me gift that soul to God?”



Javert froze,



“What? I would gift my soul to you and you would give it away?”



“Do not make it seem so trite. I would gift your soul to God, I would have you in his keep once more, I would have you assured that you are saved.”



Javert curled his lip,



“It is no insult to God but I say I would rather it in your care.”



“Javert,” Valjean warned, voice low. Javert surrendered,



“Yes, you might do that. I said you may do anything you wish with me and if that is what you wish I will concede to it.”



“It is not so much as a hardship as you make out.”



“What must I do? Eat a wafer? Be spat upon by holy water?”



“No, nothing,” Valjean said, readjusting himself on the seat so that they sat face to face, knees touching. Very slowly he brought up his one free hand, not clutched painfully between Javert’s own, and cupped Javert’s cheek. Javert jerked not so unlike a feral dog feeling the first kind touch, and, just as cautiously, Valjean’s thumb stroked over the coarse black hair of his beard,



“It is not so bad,” he rumbled and Javert nodded in agreement as that gentle touch painted the slope of his cheek with heat.



“What you give me I give God,” Valjean rumbled, “And in return you will be born anew in his light. Give yourself to kindness now, Javert, that is all I ask of you. For that, I am willing to try,”



“Can I kiss you?” Javert breathed, mouth dry, words hasty. Valjean flushed, eyelashes fluttering over his cheeks,



“Y-yes. I’ve never-”



Javert leant in and kissed him.



Their noses bumped, their teeth clattered together, Javert’s lips were fierce and pushed hard against Valjean’s own as though to knock him over. It was wonderful.



 



When they drew apart the world seemed in a marvellous haze and Javert could do nothing but watch the gentle bob of Valjean’s adam’s apple in his throat.



“Was that nice?” Javert asked, hopeful and fearful in equal measure for the answer,



“Yes,” Valjean answered.



Javert nodded and then leant forward again, just as jerkily, and pressed their faces together once more. This time Valjean’s lips pressed back and by measure they found themselves moving against each other, taking turns to suck on each other’s lips. Valjean’s hand found its way around the back of Javert’s neck, curling in his hair and tugging it from its queue, and Javert released Valjean’s hand from one of his to make a grab at a bicep to ground himself. They stayed like this until the fire grew cold, pulling away only by centimetres to breath and then kissing and sucking at the corner of each other’s mouths, and then down over the hard line of a jaw, and finally to the soft hot skin of a neck. Javert’s hand found its way from Valjean’s and knotted in his shirt, and at some point Valjean’s hand came to rest on Javert’s hip, and Javert’s leg came to be thrown over his lap, and they both found themselves falling back on the chair and then it wasn’t so far for Javert to shift himself into Valjean’s lap aching to press closer. Valjean’s hands came to wander the length of Javert’s back and then to mindlessly cup the swell of his arse. Javert gasped, hot breath seeming to wake Valjean from the reverie he had fallen into and they both drew back, staring into each other’s eyes in the now almost darkness. 



“I have never…” Valjean’s voice drifted off and Javert nodded,



“Nor have I. I want to.”



“I am frightened.”



“I feel brave.” 



Valjean nodded and Javert leant in again, this time gentle, and took his now reddened bottom lip to tease between his teeth. When Valjean’s hands left his arse Javert grabbed them and guided them back holding them firmly. Valjean rumbled deep in his chest and turned his head to the side to say,



“It should be that I lead affairs.”



“I told you: I do not make a good Omega.”



He took the opportunity to suck on Valjean’s pulse point, to feel that thick bullish neck arch towards him. Valjean’s hands squeezed deliciously and Javert ground himself down against him. They both gasped.



“I don’t think I can- I don’t think I can go that far tonight.”



Javert tilted his head up and kissed him again firmly on the lips,



“That’s alright. I am yours. I am your servant. What is mine is yours to do with as you will, when you will it.”



They drew back again then to look at each other, softened by some terrible peak of hormones that had claimed both of their minds. Valjean hummed, a deep rumble in his chest and Javert found himself purring in response. 



“You are a temptation,” Valjean said and Javert found himself grinning his terrible tiger’s grin. To his surprise, Valjean’s face lighted in response,



“I must have you from my lap,” he said, “for my back is hurting. I had not expected to feel the weight of two grown men tonight.”



“Please,” Javert chided, “Do not ever compare me to that bag of linen. Did you see the size of that pup? I am a man.”



“You are,” Valjean rumbled and the sound made it infinitely harder for Javert to shift himself but he did, sliding to sit by the Alpha’s side once me. He stood and offered his hand to pull Valjean and his aching knee to his feet, and they stood side by side in disbelief as they held hands.



 



With a shy smile, Valjean led him upstairs and they undressed, eyes turned demurely to the floor and climbed in bed beside one another. It was torture. It was bliss. Javert’s heart was fluttering in his chest and his skin was prickling, hair all on end, yet he couldn’t wish to be anywhere else.



“How do you like to sleep?” Valjean asked, voice hushed in the darkness,



“I don’t know. I have never slept with anyone else.”



“Me neither. Well, not intimately.”



After a pause Valjean said,



“I would like to hold you in my arms, I think?”



“I would like that!” Javert said perhaps a little too eagerly and then Valjean’s hands were guiding him onto his side and the hot, firm length of Valjean’s body was pressing up against his back. Javert’s heart leaped from where it had been battering his ribs into his throat, and then Valjean’s thick heavy army was resting over him, his hand splaying over Javert’s heart as though he knew to soothe it.



“Is this ok?”



“Yes!”



Valjean chuckled and it was low and painfully intimate, the heat of his breath teasing the hair on the back of Javert’s neck.



“Good night,” he said and Javert found himself having to summon some moisture into his mouth to answer a meek,



“Good night.”



He did not expect to sleep but found himself slipping quickly into a deep comfortable darkness.


Forgive my lack of editing, I have not bothered to edit and never will. Also, there is another chapter written but I want to keep it back a little while to motivate myself to write chapter seven.

 


Chapter 5.



  



 
He woke in the morning alone but surprisingly not lonely. The bed smelt of Valjean and even if it hadn't the waft of his odour was pouring up the stairs. Javert buried his face in Valjean's pillow and breathed in deeply, then rubbed his cheeks all over it until he was thoroughly mussed. Eventually, he dragged his heavy limbs out of bed to find his neatly folded clothes and pulled his trousers on and his braces over his undershirt, then finally his boots. He stood peering into the small silver-backed mirror attempting to unknot his hair for a while, gritting and baring his teeth and then gave up. He pulled it back into a messy queue instead and hurried downstairs, more than eager to see Valjean in the light of day. 



Sunlight was streaming through the window and Valjean stood, as broad and majestic as only he could be, shirt stretched across his back so tightly it almost appeared translucent. He too was in his trousers and braces but he stood barefoot as he moved something about in a pan. Javert took a moment to just look at him. To absorb that white thinning hair, the scalp beginning to show through on the back of his head. He will be handsome bald too, Javert thought. Valjean huffed,



"I can smell you, you know."



"Yes. Good morning."



"Good morning."



"You left me to sleep."



"You looked so comfortable I could not bear to wake you. Besides, we had no food and I did not want to be a bad host. I am making eggs and toast and there is a little bacon. I hope that suits you?"



"May I kiss you?"



Valjean paused, glancing shyly over one wide shoulder,



"I, uh, perhaps we could talk before-"



Javert hurried to him and took his hand,



"Just here then?" He said lifting it to hover his lips over the chapped knuckles.



Valjean flushed,



"Yes."



 Javert brushed his lips over that rough skin,



"Thank you."



"You like bacon then," Valjean answered, eyes creasing beautifully. 



Javert huffed,



"It would take less than bacon every morning to have me kissing you."



Valjean blushed a deep red and turned away quickly,



"I need to serve these. Sit."



Javert sat. 



They ate together in a not entirely awkward silence: black bread, eggs, and bacon, and even fresh orange juice. Javert could not think of the last time he had had fresh orange juice. 



"This stuff is foul," Javert said, picking at the black bread, "do not tell me you enjoy it?"



"Well … no."



"Then why do you buy it? You're a wealthy enough man for white bread, surely?"



"It would be a waste," Valjean answered also picking at his black bread, nibbling on it like a mouse,



"Of money? Valjean your money was fairly and lawfully earned, you are quite justified in 'wasting' it on decent, edible bread." 



"It's not the money," he groused, resistant, "it would be a waste on me. I am used to black bread."



"I am used to it, Valjean, used to it enough to know I hate it. Buy some damn white bread."



"I will buy you white bread if you insist."



"If you buy me white bread I will eat your black bread as punishment and force you to watch me do it."



Valjean creased his nose,



"Why, you hate it?"



"So do you. I will behave stupidly in answer to stupidity."



At this Valjean's brow darkened and his irritation rumbled in his chest,



"Don't growl at me," Javert answered, "you tell me you deprive yourself of the meagre pleasure of white bread out of stubbornness. I am not the unreasonable one here."



"You are being rude."



"You are being a bad host insisting on circumstances in which I'd have to eat black bread."



"You do not have to eat the black bread!" Valjean said reaching for it but Javert snatched it from his reach,



"Ah ah. As long as you eat black bread I eat black bread. If it is a worthy punishment for you it shall be for me too."



Valjean folded his arms, puffing out that impressive expanse of chest and tucked his chin into his neck.



"I am the more natural pouter," Javert said, "I have warned you I am a master sulker. You are challenging a life-long participant in the craft."



"I'm not sulking," Valjean sulked,



"Eat white bread and I will leave you alone."



"You are a rotten old hound," Valjean answered unfolding his arms to poke his eggs about a little,



"I've been called worse." Javert answered chewing methodically, "and besides," he continued, "those people didn't even feed me bacon."



At that Valjean laughed.



Eventually, they had to wash and dry the plates. 



"I have sent my daughter her letter," Valjean said, leaning against the table for lack of anything better to do.



"Yes."



"I suppose that leaves me with nothing to do. We could read?"



"I do not like to read."



"Ah."



Valjean tapped his fingers on the table. 



"You could tell me," Javert began, "although you probably don't want to…"



"Tell you what?"



"What you were doing with that boy at the barricades."



"Ah," Valjean said, touching his hand to his face with a coyness that made Javert prickle with jealousy, "he is my daughter's beau. Truthfully, I know nothing of him but… she is head over heels. What can I do? I would do anything to make her happy."



Javert had felt the tension seep from his bones at the mention of the daughter and he grasped at that new thread,



"You have mentioned your daughter many times yet you said you have never…"



"Yes, well she is… you may not remember… she is Fantine's daughter."



"The whore!" 



A look like thunder fell over Valjean's face,



"Javert…"



"Yes, I- I apologise. It has been many years; it was only an instinct."



Valjean's look softened, creasing instead in discomfort and he tapped on the table and glanced about the room.



"Uh, do you have any family?" 



It was Javert's turn to bristle,



"No. None."



Valjean's brows rose,



"None?"



"None. And do not pity me, I have never had need for any."



Valjean tapped his fingers on the tabletop,



"Yes, you've said: you are an independent and domineering creature."



"Has it put you off yet?"



Valjean shot him a forgiving smile,



"I wonder if you are trying to."



"I am not," Javert groused, "although if I were a better man I would try to. I am not good enough for you."



"I have been thinking about that," Valjean sighed,



"So you should!"



"I mean to say you have lifted me too high and yourself too low. I was awake last night- now-" he said raising a palm, "it is your turn to not interrupt. My relationship to you as a man has been complicated and unexplored for many years. I woke last night to find you sleeping with your head on my chest," (at this Javert flushed,) "and I took some time to ponder on you. Your nature. I think, yes, you are proud but I understand your pride. You have held yourself to high standards, you have worked hard, you have committed yourself to your morals and you have sacrificed to remain true. That is admirable. You are loyal, dedicated and steadfast. When given the opportunity to be cruel you are lawful, when faced with bribery you snub greed. These are noble traits in a man. Without aid you have lifted yourself and I understand why you might believe all should do the same. You too have grown yourself in barren soil but unlike me (who has had the unquestioning love of a daughter) I believe you have been alone in the world. Is that true?"



Javert shifted,



"Yes." He grunted.



"Love is like sunlight, we must have it to grow and bloom. But love also is a great teacher, it teaches us to love, but also all those other softer emotions: mercy, forgiveness, generosity, selflessness. I feel… Javert I cannot say if you love me or if I am capable of inspiring love in you but I hope that you will be willing to learn those soft emotions from me. Those ones you have held in contempt so long."



"If you are asking if I love you-" Javert rushed,



"No, I would never presume-"



"- it is only to say I do not know what love is or what it might feel like. I can only say this: that I would worship and serve you. That I would please you. That where before I would have broken, I wish for you to bend me. I do want to soften… for you."



Valjean had flushed, eyes bright with some emotion Javert could not name. His busy hand had stilled on the tabletop. After a moment he said,



"I have loved but never been in love, I… I too do not know what it means to feel such a thing. Nor would I know how to identify it."



"Good then," Javert snorted, "We will not embarrass ourselves by over-assuming."



Valjean laughed again and it was beautiful, and then he held out a hand,



"Let's go for a walk."



 



Javert panicked and flapped over his appearance until Valjean reassured him he meant around the garden. The madman still did not wear shoes but tread with bare soles over the stony and overgrown ground seemingly unperturbed. 



"A little love and care will turn mother Nature to gentleness. Her hard soil will soften, and her leaves no longer sting and scratch."



He pointed and said,



"When my daughter marries, here is where I will grow onions. And you see this wall? It takes full light during the day; I will grow plants up it. I'm not sure yet what. Here is an apple tree and there a pear, they will fruit when pruned. Over back is a mighty blackberry, you see he has turned feral left unattended. He will still produce a hefty harvest. Over there I will plant potatoes. There tomatoes. There and there: beans and peas and cabbages, and vegetables of many kinds. Perhaps I'm running away with myself," he laughed, face radiant in the sun, "but I did love this garden."



All the while Javert listened in silence, eyes glowing, enraptured, as he soaked in every drop of reflected sunlight from that broad, sublime face. As they reached a little seat he brushed his knuckles shyly against Valjean's and received an embarrassed smile as an answer. They sat knee to knee in the shade and listened to the birds which, when they flew into sight, were each given their own name by the gardener:



"He is the blue-tit. He is the Short-toed treecreeper. The handsome blackbird, and the curious magpie."



Javert had never cared for birds before now. He looked at them in wonder, not as God's creations but at how they created joy in Jean Valjean. He envied them and yet was brimming over with gratitude. They paced back to the house hand in hand and stopped in the shadow of the doorway. Javert turned them chest to chest and Valjean smiled up at him shyly from beneath heavy brows,



"May I kiss you?" Javert asked again, voice soft now and low.



"Yes," Valjean whispered and Javert leaned down and so gently pressed their lips together. It was just as wonderful as the first time. It was perhaps more wonderful. Will it get more wonderful by increase the more it is done? He hoped so. Here, in the heat of the sun it seemed the whole world smiled to see them together. He drew back swallowing heavily and Valjean's still dark eyelashes fluttered over his cheeks before he grew bold enough to raise his gaze to meet Javert's own. Neither of them could speak. Javert was dumbstruck. They turned instead and went inside.



In the kitchen, Valjean wet a flannel and went to wipe his feet but Javert took it from him and with a gentle but insistent hand guided him to sit. Then he kneeled at his feet and taking one and then the other washed them carefully. When he was done, he looked up to find Valjean smiling down on him, eyes gentle and shining. He took first one foot and then the other in his hand and placed a kiss upon them.



"There," he grunted, turning brusque with embarrassment, and he hurried to put the cloth in the sink for washing. When he was done with his shyness, he turned to find Valjean waiting for him hand outstretched and they went instead to the sitting room, hand in hand.



"I know you do not like to read," Valjean said, "but would you be willing to listen?"



"Yes," Javert demurred, hoping his disinterest in fiction was well hidden beneath his attempt at good manners. It seemed to be because Valjean blessed him with another smile and guided him to sit beside him on the sofa, book in hand. God knows what it was about as he did not listen to a word. He gazed instead in admiration at the man who sat beside him. How had he looked upon this man in Montreuil Sur Mer and thought him timid and cowardly? No, this man was demure, private, yes, personable without being overly friendly; self-controlled He was brave but without the prickling of arrogance that made it showy, confident but without the need to exclaim it. He was a true Alpha. Those boys who fussed and postured could not understand what that meant and never would. Valjean did not dominate because he did not need to, when he decided to speak others would listen. All of this filled Javert with a heady desire, with a powerful need to lay himself out in supplication, to surrender himself, to press himself on his belly in submission. The contents of no book could hope to overcome these thoughts and after almost an hour when Valjean turned to him and asked him ‘What did he think of the story?’ Javert could only answer,



“I have not been listening at all.”



Valjean gave him a mild but decidedly disappointed look,



"Not at all?"



"I'm afraid I have been thinking of nothing but you. May I kiss you?"



"You are incorrigible. The entire time?"



"Yes, and you have read for hours. In fact, I think it has been at least two since I last kissed you."



"Look at the clock and then tell me how much time has passed," Valjean said, eyebrows and lips quirked in an amused smile.



Javert grumbled but looked. Then he fell silent then he turned around and said,



"It doesn't matter anyway."



"No, tell me. My eyesight has grown poor over the years. How much time has passed?"



"It's beside the point."



"Javert," Valjean chided, tipping his chin to look at him from beneath judgemental brows.



"Fine! It has been forty minutes! But enough time to warrant a kiss. Indeed, I have been especially quiet and attentive - just not to the words. The intonations I have been very aware of."



"I do not know if such naughty behaviour warrants a kiss."



That did something to Javert.



"Valjean," he began, almost helpless, "you know that is unkind, unmerciful even. I am quite good at following orders, I promise you."



"I am aware."



"You have set me a Herculean task. How can I listen when you are sitting there so handsome? As you were seated last night when we kissed,"



At this Valjean flushed, 



"And if that is not enough: show mercy on my weak Omega soul led by its nose. You have never smelt so good as you do now."



Valjean placed down his book and Javert felt the beginning of a victorious grin which he quickly suppressed, 



"You would hate it so much to kiss me?"



"Of course not," Valjean rumbled,



"You would let me show you how well I take orders?" 



Valjean gave him another chiding look but this one softened by something warm and dark, 



"Javert," he purred



"Valjean," Javert purred in return, leaning in with a rumble to press a kiss to the corner of his mouth before angling to tease his neck and jaw before the Alpha's nose so he might best catch his scent. 



"Let me be a good Omega," he rumbled,



"You are pawing at me."



He was indeed kneading at Valjean's thigh, he hadn't even noticed. He distracted from this by nuzzling his beard against Valjean's, spreading their scent. 



"Javert," Valjean rumbled again, bringing his hand up to rest on Javert's middle back. 



The smell had grown thick in the air and Javert heavy with it. He wanted that hand lower and arched his back to slip it down. It resisted. He slung one long leg over Valjean's lap, recovering their position from the previous night and then Valjean was kissing him, firm and intent, and Javert was pressing himself up against every inch of him. They grabbed at each other blindly, hands seeking warm, firm flesh, lips moulding together, sucking soft noises from each other’s mouths. Javert, hungry beyond satisfaction, lathed his tongue over the seam of Valjean's lips and Valjean huffed and drew back,



"Wait! We should talk about this?"



"What is there to say?"



"Ugh," Valjean swallowed. Javert's big hand had managed to find a nipple beneath his shirt and his eyes fluttered closed, "we have to talk about it…"



Javert leant in and kissed him, sealing their lips and Valjean's tongue came to meet him pressing into his teeth, pressing into the warm heat of his mouth. It was strange but plenty welcome and Javert ground down against that striking rod of heat in Valjean's lap. Those powerful hands finally groped his arse pulling him harder down against it and Javert found himself moaning helplessly into Valjean's mouth, every sound muffled by that fearsome tongue that sought to taste every inch of him.



"Wait," Valjean slurred, eyes hazy, "I remembered. There's God."



Javert mouthed at his throat,



"I'll tell you this: if a gamin knocks on that door in the next few seconds, I will concede God does not want this from us."



"That's foolish-"



They both froze, ears straining. A carriage had indeed rolled up outside. They clung together in a panting silence. No knock came,



"Oh, thank you God!" Javert groaned and he dived in again to suckle and bite that powerful neck. Valjean groaned,



"That was a facetious test."



"Valjean," Javert sighed, drawing back to look at him. Admire him really; laid out as he was, flushed and heady with desire, "You want me. I smell it on you. I have smelt your desire all day. Why do you refuse yourself this?"



Valjean swallowed. His hands had come to rest unconsciously on Javert's hips and seemed unwilling to dislodge themselves,



"It is that you are not an object. I should not make you-"



"You cannot make me do anything."



"We might not suit each other-"



"You do not have to claim me tonight. I'm not asking that," Valjean seemed surprised and Javert took that look and drew it downwards, trailing his hand down that firm stomach to rest on the waistband of his trousers.



"I want to give you something Valjean… you do not have to take anything from me. I want to give you pleasure, an ounce of it to make up for all the pain. Let me. It is not wicked to have one small thing to call your own. It is not wicked to eat white bread."



Valjean swallowed.  Javert could feel where his left hand rested that great heart pounding within his chest. 



"It's alright," he whispered, as if soothing a frightened animal.



"Alright," Valjean murmured.



"Say again?"



"I said," Valjean lifted his chin, "show me what it is you wish to give."



Now it was Javert's turn to grow afraid. In large part he had expected to fail. He had expected to be left wanting. Instead, he bolstered his courage and shuffled back a little way to begin unbuttoning Valjean's trousers with both hands. He felt himself unable to breath, swallowing around a lump in his throat, until finally Valjean was releasing a breathy groan as he was pulled free from the confines of his clothes and Javert's own breath stuttered to life in reply as he felt that heat and weight in his hands for the first time. It was big, soft to the touch and flushed dark. Not unusually long but so very thick with that throbbing vein bulging against the skin, and burning hot with desire. Javert licked his lips as he traced his thumb around the flared edge of the dark flushed head and Valjean's breath hitched in reply.



He had to release it in order to climb down on his knees on the floor between Valjean's spread legs but he couldn't take his eyes off it. It flopped over Valjean's stomach, too heavy to hold itself aloft and Javert groaned with eagerness as he tugged Valjean's trousers down around his ankles, revealing those immense heavy balls. He flicked his gaze up to read Valjean's face and found his eyes dark: look cautious and searching. 



"Tell me to stop and I will stop," Javert whispered placing a hand on the inside of Valjean's thigh and slowly beginning to slide it up towards that delicious heat.



"I-stop."



Javert stopped,



"You don't want this?"



"I do."



"You want me to stop? I can sit on the other side of the room while you calm down."



"No-I- I just needed to know. Tell me: what are you going to do?"



"I'd like to taste you, if that's alright?"



Valjean's voice quivered as he asked,



"With your mouth?"



"Yes."



"On my…"



"Yes." Javert's hand had come to move in soothing circles over that powerful thigh and Valjean's cock made an attempt at a jump much like a tired, beached fish. 



"Oh."



Javert raised a brow,



"Do you want me to continue?"



"Only if you want to?"



I do, Javert thought, I very very much do. But there was no need to put it into words as instead he buried his head between those thick thighs and pressed a kiss to Valjean's heavy balls. Valjean released a strangled groan in reply as Javert began to mouth over the sensitive swollen sack. It was big. It was why Alpha's of Valjean's age got their name 'Old Bull': the calming of their temperament, the bulking of their bodies, and most distinctly the weight and sagging of their impressive testicles. Javert had tried to imagine them and found himself preferring the reality, kissing and licking every inch of skin before dragging his face up to nuzzle in those curly white pubes. One of Valjean's big hands came to rest on the back of his head and he moaned against the base of Valjean's shaft, excited by that restrained power. The smell between Valjean's thighs was overwhelming and Javert found himself keening and whimpering, sucking and kissing and worshipping up the hot underside of that cock, aching with every throb of the thick vein. He finally took it in both hands and lifted it so that he could taste the precome that had beaded thickly on the tip. Valjean's hand knotted in his hair and his body heaved with a great groan of need as Javert flicked that precome from his slit with his tongue. 



Every inch of Javert's body was alive with electricity. He was burning up. He stretched his lips around the head and drove his mouth down until it was so stretched it hurt and the head was making him gag. He managed about four inches. He was disappointed with himself. He drew off with a hard suck and a wet pop and then dove down to try again. This time Valjean's hand held him there and Javert moaned around the thick member filling his mouth, hands beginning to massage the base and shaft to make up for his failure. It was completely insane to think he'd be able to swallow it all on the first try but he was feeling insane, driven by the need to please Valjean. Driven by the need to feel every twitch and quiver of pleasure on his tongue. His eyes had fallen closed, his nose buried in the heady cloud of Valjean's musk, the whole world simplified down into the hot mass sliding over his tongue and that heavy but not forceful hand gently tugging on his hair. It was ecstasy. Better than his poor, ignorant imagination could have conjured. Valjean groaned and grunted above him, thighs and stomach, slightly softened by age, twitching with pleasure. Javert forced his eyes open to look up, to gaze upon that flushed neck and the tipped-back head, the mouth fallen open in helpless abandon. It was with a deep, primordial sort of satisfaction that Javert felt that hand tighten in his hair to the point of pain and that gravelly baritone voice growl,



"-Javert! -soon!"



He did not let up, he sucked harder, drew on that thick member, hollowed his cheeks, stroked with his hands and took the weight of those heavy testicles and worshipped them. Too soon Valjean's hand was peeling him from his cock and Javert was whimpering, begging with his eyes to continue. His lips left the precome and spit-slicked head with a pop and Valjean rumbled,



"Stroke it."



Javert did, muscles of his arms flexing, eyes bright and locked on that deep dark gaze that had captured them. Valjean was groaning,



"There…- Javert!" And he cried out a short noise, almost of despair. Javert's eyes pressed closed and he moaned, opening his mouth to receive those hot sticky bursts of spend that striped his cheeks and chin and eyes and waiting tongue. He groaned again as Valjean moaned above him,



"Good. Beautiful."



Those powerful hands gripped him under his armpits and lifted him like a naughty cat, captured with its face in the milk, into Valjean's lap. One thick arm wrapped around his waist and the other hand came up to cup his jaw, the thumb massaging the spend over his cheek in circles. Javert groaned again, rocking himself against Valjean's stomach, aching for release, as that coarse thumbpad painted his face. It slowly, masterfully pressed into his mouth, sliding sticky and salty ejaculate over his tongue and he closed his lips around it and sucked.



"There," Valjean purred, "You have wanted my smell; you'll have it. Good boy. Taste it."



His heart was pounding, his breath coming in gasps, Valjean's palm flat on his lower back pinning him so deliciously tight against him, and that thumb, massaging his Alpha's spend into his skin, slid again and again into his mouth to feed him. He came with a strangled cry shuddering against that powerful body and then collapsed against Valjean's chest. 



He was briefly aware of movement and then his eyes were fluttering open and he found himself staring at a ceiling. He turned his head and found himself laid out on Valjean's bed. He grunted.



"You fell asleep," Valjean said, smiling, "I've taken your shoes off. Do you mind if I take off your trousers and shirt? I think they'll need washing."



Javert shook his head then decided he needed to speak and croaked,



"No. Go ahead."



Valjean nodded and gently undressed him. Javert's head was deep underwater and he lay there drifting until he felt himself bared to the cool air, then he lifted his head to watch Valjean undress. Valjean noticed him watching and flushed, eyes shy. Still, he did not turn away and Javert watched intense and entranced as he took a washcloth and wiped down the sweat and ejaculate from his own cock and then Javert's.



"It's the middle of the day," Javert croaked, suddenly coming to the realisation.



"Yes. We are debauched. The curtains are closed; you're tired. Let's sleep. I like to walk in the evenings anyway."



Javert grunted and nodded and then let his head fall heavy on the bed. He was briefly aware of Valjean's hands closing on him and that powerful force adjusting him and then he was once again deep beneath the waves of sleep.



Chapter 6
 



    Javert awoke once more in the bliss of that warm bed that smelt so strongly of Valjean. The smell was overwhelming and Javert luxuriated in it, loath to get out of bed but, after a while, the draw of knowing Valjean was downstairs grew too strong. He had never lain in bed so long during the day- let alone for such a reason as had occurred the previous night! It seemed like a mad dream. He moved to the mirror with a comfortable familiarity and started to see himself. He was covered still in Valjean’s… he reached up and touched himself lightly, swallowing. No wonder he smelt Valjean so strongly. He took a clean cloth that rested beside a waiting bowl of water and lifted it to his face then hesitated. The thought struck him that to wipe it away would be a sacrilege, then he brought the flannel to his face and began to clean himself. It took some time, particularly to get it out of his beard but when he looked in the mirror, he found himself a new man. Indeed, even in this short time, Valjean had somehow changed him. He dressed and took himself downstairs, waistcoat and jacket on, scarf pulled around his neck. He found Valjean sitting at the kitchen table sipping a cup of tea, reading by the weak light of a single candle.



“Do you ever sleep?” 



Valjean looked up with a small smile, 



“Yes, but not often I will admit. I have received a reply from my daughter. She is worrying for me. She is overfraught, I think, fearing about her young man.”



“Hmm.”



Javert did not want to be separated from him, something powerful had grasped them two and pulled them in like a whirlpool, but he knew that if he held onto Valjean too tight he would lose him.  



“You should go to her,” Javert said.



Valjean looked up, eyes gentle,



“Are you sure?”



“Of course. My needs do not outweigh the needs of your family.”



Valjean rose and folded the letter into his breast pocket,



“Javert-”



“Don’t thank me, it is the bare human compassion I offer.”



“Yes, well-”



“More than I used to show I suppose.”



“Javert,” Valjean chided, “Really, I only mean I wouldn’t want to leave you alone so soon after… after… I wouldn’t want you to think I was running away.”



Javert blinked and then barked out a mad laugh, head thrown back,



“You are always running from me!”



Valjean did not find humour in this. He approached and took Javert’s hands in his own,



“I will not run this time. I promise you.”



Javert swallowed heavily, he had not realised the tension that has held his body until he softened in Valjean’s hands.  



“I know. I think I will return to my flat.”



“You should stay here.”



“I’ll be bored.”



“No, I meant you should stay here with me. Here. You should collect your things and bring them here.”



Javert trembled in his grip,



“Are you sure? You said yesterday you wanted things to be slow.”



Valjean smiled,



“Yes, I know. But I have been awake and thinking. Thinking about Cosette and her boy and the barricades. All of those young men who died… I wondered if they had beau’s waiting for them to return… knowing they will never… Well. I thought on it and I decided that I have spent enough of my life running, procrastinating, and eating black bread. I am frightened. That has not changed. But I want to give this redemption a proper attempt; our redemption.”



The candlelight flickered. Javert realised he had been holding his breath,



“Yes. I would like that.”



Valjean lifted himself onto tiptoes and pressed a gentle kiss to his cheek, paused and breathed him in.



“You’ve put on a fine perfume today.”



Javert chuckled,



“Yes, I quite like it.”



 Valjean pressed another chaste kiss to his cheek and then they were going their seperate ways, pulling on coats and overcoats and checking pockets for keys and waiting at the door while the other locked it and shaking hands by the gate and walking in opposite directions. It was a farce and Javert was thoroughly unnerved by it as he made his way home. 



He walked in a daze, only his fearsome reputation keeping him from being pickpocketed of his meagre belongings. His mind twisted and turned its way into knots. He was making a mistake: he was thinking. He was thinking about what Valjean had said about chances and relationships, he was thinking about all the time Valjean would waste on him that could be used to find someone more worthy. He was thinking about what a mistake it would be to leave his flat and take all of his belongings to the Rue de l'Homme Armé, to stay there for a week, maybe a month- two months, only to bring all his belongings back out again hunting for somewhere to stay when Valjean grew tired of him. Grew tired of the dream of a Good Javert. Of a Javert worth his love. It was a hopeless venture. Had he not proven his wickedness the night before by forcing himself on Valjean? By pressuring him, when he knew Valjean wanted to take things slow! Oh yes of course Valjean had forgiven him but he had covered Valjean in scars before and been forgiven. He had stolen something last night that he could not give back. 



He arrived at the door of his house and fumbled with his keys; his hands were trembling. The old dam who owned the house opened the door on him, brows knitted, and then gave a start to see him there. She pressed her hand to his forehead to feel for a temperature, as old dams were want to mother young Omega studs like himself. He wanted to turn her fussing away but her matronly scent as an old Alpha female drew him to her like the lost little boy he felt and she coddled him in through the door and into a parlour to make him sit and drink some tea and eat the weak broth she had prepared for his dinner. He felt suddenly unhungry, miserable and chilled to the bone and in his misery, he ignored how she sniffed him loudly and obtrusively as she served his meal. She sniffed him so intensely and unstoppingly that it would have been apparent to anyone watching that she wanted him to notice and ask her why so that she could broach the subject with him, but he hunched morose, spooning the broth into his mouth mechanically and paid no mind to her nosing. He was grateful for the silence, for the fact that he had, upon moving in, paid her extra each month for silence (as he truly hated casual conversation.) She had stuck to their deal and even, being an Old Alpha dam, kept unwanted and often over-vigorous young suitors from Javert's door, shooing them away with her harrigan tongue and a pointed finger. He thought, as he stared into his broth, that he had a good place here, even if it were cold, and that he should struggle to find such a place if he were to rush into giving it up. He made up his mind: he would take a few days worth of clothes to Valjean's home and leave everything else under the dam's protection, keeping his rent paid here. That was the wise choice. It sat leaden in his stomach. 



He dragged his feet upstairs as though weighed down by chains and unlocked the door to his rooms. There were two: one for toiletries and one for cooking, sleeping and working. Thankfully, he did not cook much and so the place wasn't over-cramped. In fact, it was spartan. Nothing but a single bed beneath a low titling roof, covered by a thin lumpy mattress, a desk that sat a little two low to be comfortably sat at, a chair with a large stain on the seat (knocked down in price and so greatly appreciated) and a wardrobe in which he kept his perfectly folded and maintained attire. There was also a little stool that acted as an alternate sitting spot for when the old chair grew uncomfortable on his back. Altogether, he could walk about ten paces to reach one side of his rooms to the other, and that counted both rooms. He looked about his meager possessions and found no joy in them, then laid himself out on his bed, which was so short his feet and shins hung over the end, and stared at the ceiling. The old dam had been sniffing him because she smelt an Alpha on him. Little did she know what uproar this Alpha had brought about in Monsieur Javert's heart and mind. How simple the world had been once. How high he had stood and with what contempt he had looked down on the Alpha's of this world! Now he found himself wishing to be the lowest of the low. To wriggle on his belly no better than the worm or snake. He had changed but he could not tell if it were for the better. For example, he knew he would lie. He, who had never lied in his life! He would lie to protect Jean Valjean. He would betray the law, he would betray his morals, he would betray his life's beliefs! And for what! It seemed trite to say it was to taste Valjean's lips. To kiss the sweat from his body. To worship him. To bathe in his presence in the day and steep himself in the wonder of it as he lay beside him at night.



Was he becoming a bad man or a better one?



Was it possible for him to lift himself enough to ever be in reach of Jean Valjean?



He lay himself on his bed staring at the low ceiling, into the cracks and creases of the old bowed wood and then realised he had not cleaned his teeth in days. He forced himself up and found a rough cloth which he wiped his teeth with. Then, he dug out his old leather bag and began to carefully fold and pack the two other changes of clothes he owned, his notebook and a few washcloths, his hair brushes (of which he had two), and some lengths of silk for tying his hair. This was all he could think of to bring. He paced around for a while unsure of what to do with himself, the task so quickly done, and then he set his mind to writing a letter. He sat for a long time on that old stained chair, hunched over his too-small desk, writing ferociously. The letter grew and grew in length, spirally out of his hand and control, cramped dark ink staining in the page, each letter squashed together like so many prisoners in their beds. He wrote until he ran out of paper and then he signed off the letter with a mention of the fact that he had further to say but no more means to say it. Then he sat back and stared at his work like a man looking at a noose. He simultaneously loathed it and loved it for the potential release it offered him. He tidied himself, changed his trousers and shirt, and headed out with his belongings and his long letter tied with a piece of string. 



He received many a strange look as the entered the prefecture and strode with the same confident long strides he had when he had left it before the world had turned on its head and the water had become sky and the sky had become earth and the sun the moon and the moon the sun. He approached Gisquet’s office and knocked a short sharp rap. It seemed the building was silent except for the strange cacophony of sniffing and huffing from the multitude of Alpha’s that had raised their heads like antelope spying a lion. Gisquet called him in. What happened in that office was to remain a mystery. Some reports came that shouting could be heard, at times but one voice, at others perhaps two- this is impossible to confirm. What is known is that there were never made any official documentations. When it was done, Javert strode out again, head held high, and exited the building. 



By now it was very late in the evening and the deep dark had fallen over the streets of Paris and the lamplighter had begun his daily trudge to set about brightening the night. Javert strode through the streets, cold and foggy-headed and greyer than the stones that made the city streets. It occurred to him, distantly, that he did not care if he lost his job or no. It occurred to him distantly that he might kill himself. He came to Valjean’s gate and stood at it for sometime before entering the garden. When he came to the door and rapped he found Valjean was not yet at home. He sat on the stone bench.



The powerful, hunched figure entered the gate with a practiced stealth and began its creep to the door. Javert rose in the shadows,



“Valjean.”



Valjean jumped,



“Javert!” he cried, pressing a hand to his chest, “How long have you been there?”



“Perhaps an hour.”



“It is freezing cold!”



“I was waiting for you.”



Valjean shook his head in disbelief and let them both in. He hurried to the fireplace and lit it as quickly as he could feeding the hungry flames to roaring and then turned to Javert hustling him to the fireside,



“By God, man, you’re freezing!”



“It is not so bad.”



“Your hands are like ice!”



“I have stalked on colder nights.”



“You’re being stubborn,” he grumbled, rubbing Javert’s hands between his to stimulate the blood. Javert stared at him, wide-eyed in the firelight,



“May I kiss you?”



“Yes,” Valjean answered gruffly and they kissed once chastely and then drew themselves together with a frantic urgency, peeling coats and shirts and stumbling back onto the sofa,



 “I’ve missed you,” Javert panted,



“I’ve missed you.”



They kissed like that until the colour had leeched back into the world and then Javert drew back panting,



“I’m sorry!”



“For what?” Valjean asked, brows drawn



“For pushing you. For rushing you. It was selfish of me to put my mouth on you, I made you feel you had to do things faster than you wanted in order to keep me, or in order to please me. I have taken so much from you, I shouldn’t make you feel you have to give me more.”



Valjean’s hands, big and warm, came up to cup his face. They were a cradle, they were the warm encompassing blankets of a bed, they were safety, they were home,



“Javert,” he said, “What I give I give freely. Thank you. Do not speak, hush. You say you will follow my orders, my order is: hush then.”



Javert kissed him instead. Eventually, they found themselves falling from the sofa in a shocked tangle of limbs and they rolled on the floor instead, hands roaming, learning. Javert pulled back again, grinning his tiger’s grin, and pushed himself up on his arms to look down on Valjean. To soak him in, soft and mussed and flushed red, and so helplessly gentle in the warmth of the firelight.



“How was your daughter?” Javert asked. Valjean’s blinding smile made the question worth more than gold,



“Good. Relieved. She is very much in love. She spends her days making him bandages and her evenings tending to him. He is doing well I think, the doctor said he is strong. I told her I was seeing to the needs of a friend.”



Javert flushed.



“What have you been doing?” Valjean asked,



“Perhaps losing my job.”



“What!”



“I do not know yet, I did not give my superior time to tell me. I suppose I will find out when I find out.”



“Why the devil did you do that?”



“I had to,” Javert said, turning grave, “Once I began to think I found I could not keep those thoughts to myself. I see my career from a new perspective and I feel it is my sacred duty to shine light on these new truths so that my peers may see as I do. I want to clear the fog from the world, Valjean. You said you want me to live kindly; I want that for the justice system of our country.”



“Ah, Javert,” Valjean said bringing up his hand to once more cup that bristly cheek. Javert turned his face and kissed it,



“I am not afraid.”



They slept once more cuddled together in the warmth of Valjean’s bed. It seemed a heaven of peace. All of the worries that had crowded Javert in his lonely walk to and from his flat had been blown aside by the heady smell of Valjean and the warmth of his presence.   



This time Javert woke in the deep of night. The heat of Valjean’s body was pressed against his back and most intensely, that burning length was pressed against Javert’s rear. He gasped and rolled over, keeping pressed as close as possible and stared into his face, nose to nose. He raised one trembling hand and gently cupped his cheek. Those gentle eyes were closed, the brows slightly drawn, the mouth pressed tight as though concerned. Javert stroked him gently, over the brow, the the aquiline nose, the soft cheek, and finally those full lips. Valjean snorted and his eyes fluttered open. He made a low noise in his chest of bemusement and Javert leaned forward closing the minuscule distance between them and gently kissed it from him. Valjean hummed and kissed him back and there in the darkness they wrapped themselves in each other’s arms. 



It was easy to roll onto his back and offer himself up in surrender. How well Valjean covered him; how well the breadth of his body blocked out the whole world, enclosing them in warmth and darkness. The shadows covered every limb until one couldn’t tell where one began and the other ended. They arched together, rucking up night shirts with trembling hands and pressed together with a gasp, heat on heat. Javert’s powerful legs lifted and wrapped around Valjean’s waist, his toe’s curling, ankles locking over ankles. Lips traced skin, over curves of bone, and bristle hair. The gentle rolling took them easily into ecstasy and they gasped and groaned together, breath leaving one mouth to find its rest in another set of lungs. When they were done they lay together, holding each other, and breathed slow and easy. Slowly, so slowly, without thought of morning discomfort, they fell into an easy rest.



The soft morning light warmed their eyelids and they woke together in stages between the encouragement of day light and kisses. 



“Good morning,” Javert growled, and Valjean grinned at him, brushing his fringe from his eyes for him,



“Good morning. You’re very sleepy.”



“Yes. So are you. You smell.”



Valjean snorted,



“Well!” 



“I meant you smell very strongly today. You smell hot.” 



Valjean chuckled, 



“I don’t know what that means.”



Javert’s hand stroked over his lover’s silver beard and then back up to cup his cheek, he squinted his eyes and furrowed his brow,



“I think you’re going into rut.”



Valjean’s face fell,



“Ah-oh. I’m sorry.” He drew back and quickly moved to get out of bed, “Forgive me, it’s not your burden. I apologise.”



“Valjean!” Javert cried, sitting up and reaching for him, “Calm down! It’s a natural thing.”



“I- I think perhaps we should put back your moving in.”



Now Javert’s face fell into a look of despair,



“You don’t want me?”



“I do! But, Javert, you shouldn’t have to suffer through- I wouldn’t want to. Oh…” He sat back on the bed, hunching over and dropped his face into his hands. 



Javert stared at him, helpless, and then shuffled over to touch a hand to his back. Valjean shivered. 



“Talk to me,” Javert murmured, “Come, talk to me.”



“I’m sorry.”



“Don’t be.”



“You’re not obliged to tolerate it.”



“I’d be honoured to.”



Valjean finally shifted at that, turning to offer Javert a helpless, wet-eyed look, 



“I can deal with it myself,” he said, “I have experience. There are ways to suppress it.”



Javert gently began to smooth his hand in soothing circles,



“You don’t have to.”



“I’m,” he swallowed, “I’m afraid. I have never… I have never had someone. What if I hurt you? What if I claim you when we are not ready? If I do something and you change your mind?”



“It’s alright.”



“It’s not. There are so many things that could happen-”



“That’s life,” Javert answered, voice growing firm, “you make a decision and then you follow through with it.”



Valjean grunted.



“You have a few days yet,” Javert continued, “let us think on it. Together. First of all, we need to eat; I’m hungry and I’m sure you will be. Especially if your body is preparing.”



“Yes,” Valjean answered, voice monotone. Javert rose and tugged down his offending nightshirt, cleaned them both with the wet washcloth and then took Valjean by the hand and led them downstairs. 



Javert was no cook and after about five minutes or so of his fumbling and confused looks Valjean straightened out and stepped in to fry some bacon, quite a large quantity of eggs, and some tomatoes. 



“We need some more food,” Valjean mumbled,



“Yes, we’ll have to go to the market and get some.”



Valjean looked up at him like a kicked puppy,



“You want to go out together?”



Javert almost laughed,



“By god man, someone’s got to help you carry the bags!”



Valjean blinked and then he laughed, throwing his head back and wiping tears from his eyes,



“Alright.”


 


They helped each other button up their coats, sharing shy smiles, and when Valjean had locked the front door he held out his hand to be taken. They laced fingers and walked hand in hand out of the gate and into the actual street. It was frightening. It was euphoric. They blinked against the daylight in disbelief of how the world could change at the touch of a single hand. They locked arms and made their weaving wandering way to the market, no better than two drunks.  



The market was bustling and Javert realised with a start that he did not even know what day it was. He didn’t care to ask. Javert attempted to pay but Valjean gently scolded him and insisted that as the ‘Alpha’ (and most importantly the host) that he pay. He bought a tremendous quantity of meat and looked quite shameful for it. Javert dutifully carried the bags and found himself quickly overladen with a leg of lamb, four various cuts of steak, cured bacon, salted pork, a whole chicken, and a string of sausages. They stopped at another stall and purchased twelve eggs and briefly discussed getting chickens to keep in the garden, 



“I promise I will also purchase vegetables,” Valjean said, “and that this is not the usual quantity of food I purchase. I am not a wastrel.”



They did indeed purchase a large quantity of vegetables and then a lot of dried herbs and spices of which Javert knew not the names. As Valjean was discussing with the farmer over what seeds would best be planted for the coming season and in the current climate Javert murmured that he might go apart for a moment and Valjean, perhaps a little nervously, nodded for him to go about his own business. Javert took himself off to a bookseller and then to another stall. They met again after some minutes at the road that led them back to the Rue de l'Homme Armé. Valjean was quite easily carrying all of the bags,



“Did you get what you wished?”



“Yes,” Javert answered, “And you?”



“Yes. And some little treats,” Valjean answered, eyes twinkling,



“Valjean, I assure you, meat is quite the treat in my diet as it is.” 



As they went to step from the square Valjean froze. His face blanched and he immediately stooped, eyes low. Javert looked up. Indeed, there were two Alpha from the prefecture approaching them.



“Valjean,” he rumbled, “It is quite alright. You are with me.”



“Please,” Valjean whispered, “It is Fauchelevent.”



Javert did not bother answering that, instead he adopted his most professional mannerisms: the highly held chin, the tense shoulders.



“Gentlemen,” he addressed them,



“Good day, Inspector Javert,” The superior officer offered, tipping his hat, “Nice day for it isn’t it?”



“It is mild.”



“We’re making our rounds, Inspector. Keeping an eye out for any troublemakers.”



Javert prickled. The young men were poorly suppressing smiles, eyes flicking unconsciously to Valjean. Did they know? No, their reaction would not have been amusement. So what then?



“Who’s this then?” the officer said,



“A friend.” Javert answered. Curt. To the point. Meaning: none of your business.



“Well it’s nice to meet him,” the officer said again tipping his hat once more, “Good day gentlemen.”



Javert was quite certain he heard them snickering as they paced off. He wrinkled his nose and then he paused; he sniffed again. He took Valjean by the arm and wheeled him around practically dragging him down the street and out of sight of the gendarme. 



“Look up man,” he hissed, “they’re gone.”



“Are you sure?”



“Yes, I’m sure… besides, I don’t think they were after you,” at this Javert could no longer hide the nervous amusement in his voice, “I think they were after me.”



Valjean looked up at that, surprised and confused and was even more so when he saw the strange little smile teasing at Javert’s lips. Javert’s eyes flickered to meet his own and then the taller man was leaning down to whisper in his ear,



“I smell like you!”



Valjean’s mouth fell into an ‘o’ and then he flushed deep red,



“Oh!”



Javert wrapped his arm in Valjean’s and tugged him in against his side,



“The scandal I will have to deal with at work! No doubt the other day when I went into the office I stank of you and they have all been taking bets on what kind of Alpha could finally have tamed the ‘Tiger of the Law,’ as I was so-called.”



At that Valjean chuckled,



“A well-earned title I am sure. In fact, I would say I have found you to be quite the tiger.”



Javert pinched his arm,



“I should hope I’m fired now. No doubt going back to work would be a nightmare. They will be heading back to the prefecture now to spread all matter of rumours! ‘You should see the meek little creature our monstrous Javert has tied to himself! No doubt he has been looking for such a little mouse to crush in his claws all these years!’”



Valjean laughed,



“They probably thought you were so afraid of me!” Javert continued and Valjean’s laughing bubbled over and they staggered against each other giggling like school girls. When he could control himself Javert purred,



“Little do they know I am at the beck and call of my little mouse. And quite the masterful little mouse at that.”



Valjean chuckled, his voice growing low. They had both decided they wanted to be at home.  



They reached home perhaps faster than either of them had believed possible and unloaded the groceries with intent. When they’d finished they embraced, arms around each other’s waists and stood nose to nose, smiling like fools.



“I have bought something,” Javert said, “Something scandalous. You must promise me you will not judge me and will see it purely for its practical merit.”



Valjean raised his eyebrows and Javert uncurled and arm to reach into a deep pocket of his coat. He pulled out a book,



“But you hate reading!”



“Yes, but you don’t and besides there is some content here I thought might be helpful for us in a practical sense.”



Valjean took the little book, simply bound and with no title. He opened it to a random page and began to read it and then flushed deeply,



“Oh my.”



“I told you not to judge me.”



“This is…”



Yes.”



“They’re talking about…”



“Things you and I have never done but might very much like to try, I thought.”



Valjean swallowed deeply and then and then snapped the book closed. He looked up with the fearful look of a little boy caught with his hand in the sweetie jar. Javert smiled his wide, smug tiger’s smile,



“I thought you could read it to me.”



Valjean flushed deeper,



“Oh.”



“And I bought this,” Javert said, pulling out a small bottle of oil,



“What’s that for?”



“I suppose you’ll find out. I don’t want to spoil too much for you.”



Valjean had flushed so deeply red now that he looked as though he might pass out any minute,



“Oh, well, my little surprises are decidedly less exciting, I’m sorry. I just got us some nice wine and chocolates.”



“Valjean,” Javert purred, “I would be quite happy to lick chocolate from your body.”



Valjean did almost faint. 


 


Somehow they made their way up to the bedroom, shedding layers and giggling with nerves. 



“How do you want me?” Valjean asked standing by the bed,



“Any way I can have you,” Javert breathed, eyes bright with desire, “Perhaps you could sit on the bed and I could lay my head in your lap? Then you could read so nicely to me.”



Valjean’s hands shook,



“Oh, I thought perhaps you were joking.”



“I never joke,” Javert answered deadpan. Then he grinned like a madman as Valjean climbed onto the bed to rest back against the headboard. He climbed quickly onto the bed after him and lay his head on Valjean’s thighs, almost salivating with excitement at being close to his bare, tender flesh. 



“Please,” Javert panted, “Begin.”



Valjean hummed, reached into a drawer beside the bed and took out his small reading glasses, “Well I suppose I will jump back to around where I opened before. I don’t suppose we need to be too cautious of plot.”



“Valjean! Please!” Javert was already quite hard, eyes bright and dark.



Valjean cleared his throat, smacked his lips, and began,



“The Omega Aloïs dropped to his weakened knees, his pale bare flesh shining in the moonlight. The terrible Alpha General Luis struck his baton across his palm, Now he said, voice firm and fearsome, you shall be punished for your insubordination.”



“What do they look like?” Javert asked,



“I have no idea,” Valjean answered, clearly not as enamoured,



“Aloïs did only as an Omega could do in such a terrible situation, he crawled upon his knees and supplicated himself, Please, he begged, Please Monsieur, spare me. Let me pay for my life with your pleasure.” 



“Really,” Valjean said, “This is quite an unpleasant setup.”



“Keep going.”



Valjean sighed, dropping one hand to mindlessly play with Javert’s hair as he continued,



“It was true Luis has looked upon his prisoner many times with desire in his eyes. The desire to show the supremacy of the Spanish over the French, the desire to show the strength and virility of an Alpha, and the simple desire to plunge his member between those red blushed lips. He took Aloïs by the hair and dragged in his wanton mouth. It was warm and wet and eager and licked at his hardening member through his trousers.”



Javert swallowed deeply. He rolled very subtly to his side, eyes on Valjean’s gently rising and falling stomach.



“Aloïs' fearful trembling hands unbuttoned the General’s trousers and released his turgid member. Turgid member, how completely off-putting. I digress. Released his turgid member. It was immensely thick and long and powerfully red and it commanded the weak and trembling Omega to suck it- oh!”



Valjean cried as Javert, who he had noticed had been jostling a little in his lap, licked his cock,



“Javert!”



“Ignore me, continue.”



“Javert,” he rumbled, but he continued as Javert’s hand lifted his cock and his eager lips began to mouth around the head, “the Alpha’s cock was so powerfully overwhelming in its scent and taste that no sooner had Aloïs tasted it that he forgot all about his captivity, his fear, his desire to return to France. He thought only of how he might worship this cock for- oh, oh Javert- how he might worship- that’s, careful, you’re making it hard to read. The Omega’s sensual mouth sucked its new master in. Soft and velvety wet it sucked and sucked that cock deeper, licking along the vein that throbbed with Alpha masculinity. Javert, god. Those lips teased the sensitive skin around the might crown and Aloïs suck-sucked! Sucked it, god help me, and teased it between his teeth. The baton came to rest upon his cheek. Careful, Prisoner, the General said, those teeth will get you into trouble. The Omega wanted nothing more than his new master’s pleasure oh Javert, oh-”



He broke off, arching into Javert’s mouth. That delicious mouth that was driving down, taking him deeper, making his thighs twitch and clench, making his heart pound. His hand that had toyed with the dark hair now fisted in it and he rocked Javert down, setting the rhythm. 



“Javert,” he groaned, teeth clenched and eyes squeezed closed. Javert hummed around his cock and he forced them open to look down and found his eyes meeting Javert’s own: bright and hungry and unbearably worshipful. Valjean shuddered and just barely kept himself together as Javert slowly and agonisingly lowered himself, mouth stretching around his member, eyes holding eyes. Valjean could only groan, body hardening, consciousness being sucked down to his groin. He noticed then how Javert’s large powerful hand was working over his own member and the sight of that cock, which he was only first seeing now, long and slender and dark flushed, slick and glistening with precome, sliding in and out of that rough hairy hand, drew him over the edge. He made a noise like an angered bear, pressed Javert down on his cock and came tremendously down his throat. Javert swallowed around him diligently and, what he could not swallow, spilled from his lips as Valjean let him draw free.  



Javert moaned, lips coated in Valjean’s spend, which was dribbling over his chin, and came into his own fist. He lay there on his side, shuddering and trembling as Valjean’s coarse hand gently stroked his stomach and chest and then he lay still and sighing. They both took a good moment to rest, the book forgotten, and then Javert looked up at Valjean with a grin.



“A good book?”



Valjean scoffed,



“A book you enjoyed at least.”



Javert laughed and Valjean drew him up, wiped his mouth with his thumb, smearing more than cleaning, and kissed him.



“That wasn’t really the content I bought the book for,” Javert said when he was free to speak, “I was hoping more that we could get advice on things we don’t know how to do. Perhaps I shall read that book myself so I can surprise you.”



“Hmm,” was all Valjean replied, 



“You know this is the second time we have engaged in coitus mid-daylight?” Javert said,



“I was just thinking that,” Valjean answered, “We are quite doomed, I think, to depravity. Seeing as we have started off on the wrong foot.”



Javert laughed.



They cleaned up once more, joking with one another about how many new washcloths they would need to buy and headed downstairs. Valjean put on the steaks to sizzle and sliced some vegetables to go in the oven. They drank wine and talked, laughing and giggling, while the food cooked and then ate like starving men. It seemed that they were both desperately hungry for when they had finished their dinners they quickly went to curl against each other on the sofa and feed each other chocolates only laughing more at their own decadence and how absolutely exceptional it was that this trait should show in them now and at this age.  



"I feel terrible really," Valjean said,



"When don't you feel terrible about enjoying yourself? I saw how guilty you looked earlier buying our food."



"Yes, well, I meant I felt terrible courting you and having such intimacy when all the while Cosette is worrying after her beloved." 



Javert sighed and embraced him, resting his head on his shoulder. He said nothing, just held him. Eventually, Valjean continued,



"And worse than that, I sometimes think, well… if he were not to recover I would not lose my Cosette. -Of course I don't mean I wish him to die! I do not! Only that I… I am afraid of losing my daughter."



"Valjean," Javert said, voice low and serious, "you are not a saint. It is perfectly acceptable for you to occasionally have an uncharitable thought. Can I…. Can I ask if your daughter is an Omega?"



"No, she is like me."



"I see then," Javert said with a sigh, "that is better then. You will not have to worry too much about her."



"I will still worry."



"I get the feeling you are a worrier."



"Well, yes."



Javert took Valjean’s hand in his and pressed a kiss to each knuckle.  



“Can we talk about what you meant earlier? When you said you could suppress your rut?”



Valjean cleared his throat,



“It is a matter of no importance. My concern, you do not have to burden yourself with me.”



“Oh, enough of that!” Javert chided, “I am here and you would have an easier time prying the fingers of a thief from a rich man’s pockets. Talk to me. Don’t deprive me of my chance to finally know the secrets of the mysterious Jean Valjean.“



“Javert,”



“You chide me. Speak to me instead. You haven’t been taking the medications have you? Many of them do not work at all and many more contain dangerous substances. I should know, I have been helping get them off of the streets.”



“No, I have not. I did, I tried almost all of them when I could get them but as you said they did not work. When I was in Petit-Picpus-”



“Valjean! Petit-Picpus? How? They only accept women, and almost exclusively Omega’s and Beta’s. How on earth did you remain there?”



“You see my problem then. The nuns took mercy on me, they had some Alpha there, although it is a carefully guarded secret,” here he crossed himself, “and they took it upon themselves to train me in some ways to suppress the flesh.”



“Like?”



Valjean screwed up his face and attempted to turn away but Javert held tight on his hand and tugged him back,



“I… depriving yourself of food weakens your body, makes your blood sluggish… it makes the rut milder and even when the tortures are the same you cannot act on them.”



“Valjean,”



“It was no hardship, I am used to starvation.”



His eyes had settled on the fire, his mouth drawn and lips pale.



After a wait, Javert said,



“And?”



Valjean’s eyes flicked to his face but could not meet his eyes,



“And? There was-”



“There is something else? I have always known when you were keeping secrets Valjean.”   



Valjean swallowed. Javert squeezed his hand.



“There is a reason I have been afraid of being seen… of you seeing me… naked. I- not all of the scars I have are from Toulon.”



Javert remained silent. Very slowly, and very gently he cupped Valjean’s cheek and drew his face towards him until they met eye-to-eye. 



“The pain helped. It distracted. The nuns would sometimes whip themselves in worship of God and I… I learned to self-flagellate.”



“Valjean…”



“Don’t. You do not have to say anything.”



“Then let me do this,” and he leaned in and chastely kissed him. When they drew apart he murmured,



“There is no scar on your body you have to be ashamed of but, please, do not hurt yourself again. I am here now.”



“I might hurt you.”



“You won’t.”



“I don’t know what I’m capable of.”



“I do.”



“Javert-”



“I need to tell you something,” Javert said, his hand trembled where it held Valjean’s and Valjean frowned and covered it with his other.



“Javert…”



“You have put your trust in me, let me be honest with you. Completely. Valjean, I… I am sterile.”



Valjean squeezed his hand,



“That is ok. I have a daughter, I have been a father. If we never… that would be ok.”



Javert hung his head,



“Oh, thank God. I feared-”



“No, I am an old man. I do not need any more children. I want only you.”



“Thank you,” he kissed Valjean’s knuckles. Then he trembled again,



“There is more… Valjean, I cannot enter heat at all. I, it is an unpleasant story. I have told no one. You do not have to hear it.”



“You do not have to tell it, my tiger, but I will listen.” He pressed them shoulder to shoulder. Javert nodded,



“I was born to an Omega mother. When I was a little boy I… I entered my sexual maturity young and she- to protect me from the guards and prisoners she- she told the guards that she was pregnant and requested a device to remedy her illness. But she… she used it on me,”



Valjean swallowed,



“I was very ill afterwards. I bled terribly and had to be kept in the prison hospital. I was afraid of her after. I hated her. I almost died. The hospital doctor told me I would never bear child nor enter heat… I was too damaged.”



“Oh, Javert…”



“It’s alright,” he said gruffly, “I have been grateful to her all these years. When I was old enough to realise how precarious my position was. I might have thrown myself away on any old Alpha, any dangerous reckless man, just as my mother did if she had not spared me the heat. She only did what she believed best by me, even if I hated her for it.”



Valjean clasped Javert’s head with his hand and drew him in to press a kiss to his temple.



“Can I help you?”



“You can not pity me. That would help me.”



“I do not pity you.”



“Do not say you are proud of my strength.”



“I am, but I was before this. It is nothing between us if you do not want it to be.”



“Thank you. You are certain you do not want any more children?”



“I am certain.”



“Thank you.”



Valjean’s hand gently stroked Javert’s hair,



“Have you ever- I apologise if this is overstepping- have you ever seen a doctor, Javert?”



“The one in the prison hospital.”



“But not since?”



“There was no point and besides that, I had no money.”



“Perhaps-”



“Leave it alone,” Javert growled, 



“I’m sorry,” Valjean murmured, pressing another kiss to Javert’s temple, “I will not press you.”



“You should see your daughter tomorrow before your rut comes on. Comfort her and explain your absence.”



“Yes, you’re very wise. Let us go to bed. I want to hold you.”



“Will you let me see your scars?”



Valjean hesitated,



“Yes.”


 


They put out the fire and crept up the stairs hand in hand, fearful of disturbing the night. They lit a pair of candles and very gently, and with kiss after kiss, Javert stripped his Alpha, folding each item and resting it over the back of a chair. In return Valjean stripped him, peeling away the layers of the policeman until he had the bare animal. They stood together, touching each other with curious and wondering hands. Their bodies were alien and yet familiar territory, thrillingly new and yet comfortingly known. They touched each other with awe and when the ghost of fingers and the gentle heat of palms was not enough they pressed together and kissed each other. Kissed lips, necks, shoulders, the plane of the chest, hands, stomachs, and finally they climbed upon the bed and tangled together, nervous hands growing confident as they stroked and squeezed. Mouths breathed into mouths, rapid beating hearts matching rhythms as they pressed chest to chest. Valjean’s fingers carded through Javert’s hair, his lips curved around the lobe of an ear. Javert’s whiskers scratched the sensitive skin of a neck down over the swell of Valjean’s chest to enclose lips around a small, pink nipple. They arched together, groaning like animals, hands grasping, touches and breaths growing more urgent until, finally, they were spilling over their stomachs, exhaling their orgasm’s into each other’s mouths. 



Valjean pressed a kiss to Javert’s cheek, his brow, his nose, his eyes, and finally his lips.



This time they did bother to clean up. Javert insisted it be his labour and when he was done he instructed Valjean to lie on his stomach and then he draped himself over the broad rippling width of Valjean’s back and began his process of veneration: pressing kisses to every inch of puckered scarred flesh. Valjean was at first tense but by measure softened until finally he lay limp on the bed. Javert’s lips trailed lower as he trailed those wounds, lower and lower still until his tongue was grazing the swell of Valjean’s behind. Valjean grunted but did not dislodge him and Javert took his cheeks in hand and squeezed them, pressing kisses over the firm flesh. Valjean chuckled,



“Come now, tiger, you were so nicely putting me to sleep.”



“Sorry.”



“Let me rest now, I am your elder and I feel it.”



Javert grunted at that and then crawled up the bed to lie out beside him, pressed against him as close as possible. He pressed a kiss to Valjean’s ear and then to his lips when he turned to face him. They smiled at each other.



“Go to sleep,” Valjean rumbled, “In the morning I will warm you.”



Javert grinned,



“I will have sweet dreams while I wait.”



Valjean chuckled and closed his eyes. Javert watched him a moment and then he sat up and quickly blew out the lights dropping down on the bed to throw his leg and arm over Valjean once more and they fell together into sleep.


Next chapter is the Epilogue :)

Without fully slipping into wakefulness, they pull together, kissing, holding, exploring. It's not the mad rush of sex that drives their lazy touches but something deeper, something more akin to the primal need to touch, to understand the world through the press of fingers. Javert rolls onto his back and pulls Valjean on top of him and they gaze at each other and want nothing more. Very slowly Javert's face splits into a grin and Valjean begins to giggle and then they are hiding their faces in each other's necks. 

"I need to see my daughter," Valjean says breathlessly when he draws back again,

"I know," Javert says, "and you ought to make it soon: you're hot this morning, like a furnace. You don't have much time."

Valjean grumbles at that then leans down to peck him on the lips,

"I need to eat."

They eat a full-course dinner for breakfast. It is no surprise that Valjean can eat plate upon plate of red meat, vegetables and cheeses, but Javert surprises himself by being equally famished. He usually lacks any appetite, so accustomed to eating perhaps one meal a day, but sitting across from Valjean seems to have imbued him with a bottomless hunger. When they're done eating, they drink together and then, much to both their surprise, snack again. 

"I need to see my daughter," Valjean groans hopelessly, pressing kisses beneath Javert's jaw.

"Go," he laughs in reply, pushing Valjean away. Valjean draws away hurt,

"You want me gone?"

"Hush. Put away those puppy-dog eyes, I am working on a surprise for you."

Valjean kisses him, it seems for a moment as if he will rise to his feet and then they are kissing again and flopping around on the sofa,

"Go! -go!" Javert cries, "before it's too late! You don't want to enter your rut on the way home."

"No," Valjean pouts and he finally does get to his feet. He buttons his own coat with a pitiful look as Javert laughs at him, sprawled out on the sofa.

"You won't be bored?" Valjean asks,

"I will but I will find ways to entertain myself. Go."

He casts one terribly sad look over his shoulder at Javert before he closes the door behind him, hounded by Javert's laughter. 

The moment the door is closed Javert runs the window and watches him walk up the path, bouncing in the balls of his feet. When Valjean reaches the gate, he looks back and they wave to each other. It's foolish. Javert cannot contain himself, he leaps up the stairs two at a time and bursts into Valjean's bedroom with a mischievous glee. The little vial of oil is in his coat pocket and the terrible book in the draw beside the bed. He closes the curtains, strips off his clothes and climbs on the bed hurriedly flicking through the pages in search of what he wants. When he finds it, he reads avidly, face fierce, brow furrowed, and mind uninterested in his slowly hardening cock. He flicks his tongue over his lips in concentration. When he finds no more use in the text he places it on the side table and lays back, staring at the ceiling. He lies like that for a little while, flat, bony chest rising and falling. Then he lets his knees spread and says to himself,

"Stop being a coward, Javert."

He unstoppers the little vial of oil and slicks up one finger, puts the stopper back in carefully, places it on the bedside table and lies back breathing again. 

Unwilling to falter further he reaches his hand down between his legs and begins the cautious process of touching himself where he has never touched before. His heart hammers, he swallows heavily. It is tight and sensitive and his nerves get the best of him. He draws his finger away and curses. The best course of action is to stroke his cock in one hand while his other presses inside: that will distract him. It works well enough and he's soon hissing in a mix of surprise and discomfort as the first finger enters to the knuckle. He lies still, heart hammering and adjusts to the feeling. After a moment it is not so bad.

"Valjean is far bigger than a finger," he says gruffly and he presses in further. He immediately grows afraid and slips his finger free when his body does not immediately acquiesce. He re-oils and tries again, stroking himself languidly, and manages to get it in up to the second knuckle.

"They make it sound so easy in the book!"

He finds he has a newfound respect for prostitutes. 

He works his finger inside of himself diligently, unwilling to be beaten, thinking of Valjean's pleasure. He must not fail. He presses past the second ring of muscle and gasps again, having to stop and adjust. 

"There," he says, "not so bad."

Then he remembers he must insert a second. He almost whimpers. Perhaps he will not master this today. 

No, he thinks, I must try.

He oils his second finger and bites down on his first as he pushes it in. It is not pleasurable like they say in the book. Still, he works them both inside, slickening and loosening himself, taking his cock in hand to stroke himself through the discomfort. He is soon panting and gasping and having to release his cock or risk finishing too soon. There is supposed to be a place inside that feels good and he curls his fingers in search of it, heavy brow furrowed and lips scowling. He cannot find it.

"I'm no good at this."

He will have to try three fingers, that's all there is to it. He remembers as he nervously inserts the third, that Valjean's fingers are thicker than his. Inserting three hurts, there's no doubt about it. He thinks he must be doing something wrong. He gets inordinately upset for it. He wishes Valjean was with him, not that the man would be any help; he'd probably blush and stutter and be absolutely flabbergasted by the concept of putting anything inside anywhere. He wants this, he thinks, he wants to be a good Omega who can satisfy his Alpha's every desire, and more than that he wants to feel Valjean inside of him, to have that closeness in body and soul. He tries again, this time a little slower, stroking himself through it, and with a sudden gasp of surprise he finds that mythologised spot. It does indeed feel good. It turns out it is all downhill from there and Javert is soon grunting, mindlessly thrusting himself down on his fingers, grinding on that spot until he's spilling over his stomach, face pressed into Valjean's pillow. He lies slumped on the bed breathing heavily, drowning in Valjean's smell and then he finally slides free of himself and sits up. He feels very satisfied that it is a job well done and he stands to retrieve the washcloth, catches sight of himself in the mirror and smirks,

"I knew you could do it, old dog."

 

He is immensely bored after that. Valjean is gone for hours and he flounces around the house huffing and puffing and occasionally snacking on salted pork and grapes and cheese and whatever else can distract him. He puts his head in a pillow and screams. He bathes himself. He brushes his hair. He reads that terrible book again a bit and grows even more bored. He wants to go outside; he does not own a key. He spends several minutes with his forehead pressed to the window staring at the front gate willing Valjean to enter it. Eventually, he has enough and goes upstairs and penetrates himself with his fingers again. It's easier the second time. Then he is bored again. He retrieves some paper and a pen, thinking he must apologise later for not asking first, and continues his diatribe against the current unjust nature of the legal system. Then he sits with his head in his hands, then he continues. He becomes quite engrossed in the process and almost misses Valjean's return- almost.

 No sooner is the key in the lock than he leaps to his feet and bounds to the door. It opens, Valjean enters and they embrace before it's even closed. Valjean is as hot as the devil and billowing waves of pheromones. He kicks the door closed with his heel and sweeps Javert up in his arms carrying him towards the stairs, coat still on.

"You need to eat first!" Javert gasps when he can finally extricate his tongue from Valjean's mouth, "hold it off or you'll be starving!"

Valjean just grunts at him. Javert wriggles in his grip until they're both moaning and wrestling to hold onto and be free of each other and then he's slipping to his feet and darting into the kitchen. Valjean makes chase, pinning him to the worktop as he haphazardly grabs handfuls of meat and bread and fruit from the countertop. 

"Here," he pants, "upstairs!" And Valjean lifts him again easily, kissing him, and carries him up to the bedroom. 

He drops Javert onto the mattress and the food scatters across the bed. They ignore it, too busy ripping every item of clothing off, wriggling their way up the bed and then tangling themselves together. Valjean nips Javert’s lip, top then bottom, and growls,

“You have been naughty while I have been out,”

Javert’s whole body trembles,

“I have?”

“Yes,” Valjean rumbles, “I can smell it. You have not even tried to hide it.” His hands roam down Javert’s stomach and sides and Javert arches against him, panting,

“What is to be my punishment, Monsieur?”

Valjean leans back to sit on his haunches, mouth pulled into an affectionate smile but eyes mischievous.

“Lie still,” he commands and Javert places his hands, palm down at his side and swallows heavily. Valjean’s eyes now follow the path his hands had previously taken, down over Javert’s bony ribs, over his flat stomach with its trail of dark coarse hair, and then to his erect cock. It is nothing to be ashamed of, large, actually, for an Omega and he has taken pride in it over the years. It is, of course, nothing compared to Valjean’s. Javert licks his lips.

“I have not got to enjoy this,” Valjean rumbles, stretching out a hand to gently, with a single finger, stroke up the underside. Javert gasps, his body jumping up.

“Ah-ah,” Valjean says, powerful hand coming to rest on Javert’s hip pushing him down against the mattress, “I said: still.”

“Yes, sir.”

Valjean smiles at that and it is gloriously smug. Javert’s face grows hot under that look, cock the only part twitching. It is a delicious agony Valjean’s finger, broad and coarse stroking leisurely up his length. Occasionally it pauses in its ministrations to tease that spot beneath the head that has Javert gasping and whimpering, pressing himself down into the bed for fear of disobeying, only to return to gently stroking the shaft. 

“Javert,” Valjean purrs, “You are doing so well.”

Javert cannot answer him beyond a whimper, eyes pressed tightly closed, jaw clenched. If he could speak, he would beg for more. He would beg for anything. As it is, that finger is joined by its friends and delicately tickles his balls, making his leg twitch. 

“Jean-” he finally chokes out and Valjean only chuckles at the name before stroking his hand, that had so lazily rested on Javert’s hip, down through the trail of dark hair to lightly grasp him around the base. 

“Very handsome,” he rumbles as he begins to slow, torturous process of stroking up the length and over the head, “quite admirable.” He switches hands so that he can move one up Javert’s stomach and over his ticklish ribs to tease a nipple as he finally begins to grant Javert the mercy of a steady rhythm.    

“Good boy.”

Javert almost bites his bottom lip to bleed,

“Please,” he keens, “Please, monsieur!”

“What is it, my tiger? My handsome beast.”

“Please!”

Valjean only chuckles and lifts himself off of his calves, leans over Javert and kisses him so gently. There is nothing salacious about it, no sliding of tongues, no penetrating of wet heat, and yet it is that gentleness that drives Javert over the edge bringing him to cry out and spill over Valjean’s fist. He whines like a dog and trembles, eyelashes fluttering, and Valjean gently kisses the tears from his cheeks as he strokes him through his orgasm. 

When Valjean finally sits back on his calves Javert forces his eyes open, swallowing and shuddering. Valjean smiles at him, bright and beautiful and so very generous. His cock is painfully hard and flushed dark, leaking heavily where it rests over his thigh. Javert reaches for it,

“Can I?”

Valjean chuckles, 

"You’re welcome to it. Let me get comfortable, my knees hurt.” 

He adjusts himself and Javert pushes himself up onto one elbow so he can watch that beautiful cock sway as Valjean positions himself to sit, legs spread. He crooks a finger and Javert obeys eagerly, crawling the little way to put his head between those thighs, taking him in his mouth. Valjean’s hand comes to rest on the back of his head as he sighs a long helpless sigh of relief. The hand does not increase pressure, does not set the pace and Javert feels his heart swell with pride that he is improving, that he has found the pace and speed himself. He soon has Valjean grunting and groaning, thighs twitching, and hips rocking gently into his mouth, and he almost moans with pleasure at the thought that he has learned Valjean so well in such a short space of time. Valjean touches his cheek and groans,

“I want to see you,” his voice rough and broken. Javert has to adjust himself but he manages to tilt his head so that they can make eye contact. Valjean cups his cheek and gently strokes his thumb through the thick scratch of his beard,

“You enjoy this,” he rumbles and Javert moans around him in affirmation. Valjean groans, eyes fluttering closed, “I want you to enjoy this. There,” he groans and his hand cups Javert’s jaw firmly as his cock twitches and spends in Javert’s mouth.

They moan together and Javert sucks him dry and then licks him clean before pulling away to rest breathlessly on his thigh, Valjean’s fingers gently stroking through his hair. 

“Good,” Valjean rumbles.

“Good,” Javert purrs and they choose to move together laying themselves out side by side, face to face. Valjean presses a peck to his lips and Javert pecks him back. They grin foolishly at each other.

“I’m not softening,” Valjean sighs and Javert grunts,

“It’s time then.” he sits up, hand groping around until he finds an apple and then flops back down, “Eat this.”

Valjean chuckles,

“Really?”

“Yes, I am nothing if not practical.” 

They kiss again and Javert takes a loud crunching bite before leaning forward to kiss Valjean, pressing the piece between his lips with his tongue. Valjean rumbles with amusement but takes it and Javert takes another bite. They lie side by side feeding each other pieces of apple until they are too distracted kissing each other and then they give up and the poor fruit is tossed aside in favour of lips and hands. 

They lie together for a long time, lips and hands gentle and tenderly exploring. It seems there are endless bounties to discover: dips that collect sweat, ticklish spots, prickled skin that when kissed draw gasps. Eventually, Valjean's hand slides down to fondle that stiffening member that has surprised them both,

"I can't believe it," Javert gasps, "although I suppose I am ten years younger than you."

Valjean grumbles at that but continues languorously massaging him to full hardness. When he's stiff and moaning they slot their bodies together and begin that smooth rolling of hips to hips, sucking on each other's lips. Javert breaks the kiss to purr,

"Would you like to see what I have been working on?"

The deep low noise that rumbles from Valjean’s chest is an obvious affirmation. Javert pushes himself up on his elbows and fumbles to open the drawer bringing out the vial. He opens his mouth to explain and then finds he can say nothing, he swallows instead and drops heavily back onto the pillow. Valjean rolls himself onto his side, propping his head up on his hand, and restrains himself to trailing his fingers up and down Javert’s stomach as he watches him oil his fingers and then return the vial to the sideboard with shaky hands. His eyes stay glued to Javert’s hand as it journeys down between his legs and when Javert exhales a shaky breath they exhale together. The muscle of Valjean’s jaw flexes. He inhales heavily. Then his eyes shoot up to watch Javert’s face begin to flush with pleasure, his eyes slowly flutter closed. 

“Javert-” he says roughly, then he says nothing at all just watches, hand roaming, teasing. 

“Javert,” he says eventually, “Can I?”

“Yes,” he answers, “One finger, gentle.”

And Valjean leans over him to retrieve the bottle, slicking his fingers easily and dives them down to bump against Javert’s own. They trade places and the low, needy moan that escapes Javert’s lips brings Valjean down to kiss him. 

“Thank you.”

“Thank you.”

Valjean presses into the knuckle and Javert sighs, grinding down on him. Valjean cannot take his eyes off him. He works his finger, exploring him, discovering the new sounds he can draw from him, the way he can make him arch and clench and writhe against the bedsheets until Javert is begging him:

“Another!”

He presses a second finger against his entrance and then in and Javert makes a strangled noise,

“Painful?” Valjean rumbles,

“Yes, but don’t stop.”

He presses in gently and begins to move them,

“I want you,” Javert groans, “I want to take you inside of me. I’m trying-”

“You’re doing so well. You look beautiful.”

Javert whimpers, hand racing to his cock but Valjean catches it and guides it gently to rest on his stomach,

“Not yet,” he murmurs, “Stay strong for me.”

It takes everything in him to nod. Valjean's fingers, broad and callused, continue to work him open, continue to caress him until he's gasping and almost sobbing with need. 

"Oh please!" He cries, "please!" 

Valjean loses whatever fight he has been battling in his mind and he growls as he spills oil over his cock and climbs between Javert's spread thighs. It's not slow or easy, it's still painful despite the gentle working, but he presses inside and they howl together like wounded animals, gripping and clinging to each other. Valjean's body lies out over him, dense and hot and they rut together, Javert yowling like a cat in heat and Valjean grunting - more of a beast than he had ever been. It's quick. Valjean bites down on his lover's shoulder to muffle his shout as he bucks and shudders and Javert moans beneath him, glistening with sweat. Valjean's dead weight is almost suffocating but the body pressed tight also means it is easy to rock up against it and Javert spills with a shudder and a whine between their stomachs, Valjean still buried inside. 

They rest for a long time.

"I'm sorry," Valjean rasps against Javert's neck, "I couldn't last.'

"It's alright," Javert answers, voice equally sore. His fingers dance patterns over the muscular back; their hearts beat slowly together.

"I tried. You feel so good…"

Javert laughs,

"I'm glad! I'm so glad. That was wonderful."

Valjean adjusts himself until they can kiss. It's messy and uncoordinated and unbearably sincere. 

"Thank you," Valjean says when he pulls away.

"Thank you," Javert whispers.

"I need to sleep."

"Me too!"

They eventually manage to separate and stretch out, side-by-side, eyes heavy. As Javert slips into sleep he feels fingers brush and curl through his own and he smiles. 

 

He wakes wrapped in Valjean's arms, the warmth of lips trailing over his cheek,

"Hello,"

"Hello,"

"We should have something to eat and drink," Javert rasps,

"Yes." 

Valjean's lips do not cease their task, his arms do not loosen; Javert cannot find it in his heart to pull away. Instead, he rolls over until they're pressed chest to chest and buries his face in Valjean's neck. Valjean's fingers trail up and down his back. 

"You're beautiful," Valjean mumbles against his ear, "you're so beautiful."

Javert makes a doubtful noise,

"Let me worship you," the low voice murmurs in his ear,

"No,"

"Why?"

Javert harrumphs and Valjean chuckles, warm breathes ghosting over his skin like caresses,

"Make me happy," Valjean murmurs, "don't deny me…"

"I can deny you nothing," Javert sighs. He is weak. The warmth of Valjean's body moves down, followed by the trailing kisses. Javert rolls onto his back and spreads his legs for him. It's effortless and natural and his eyes close of their own accord. Valjean's lips press over his hips and his fingers dust through the dark hair of a lean thigh. Hot breath ghosts over Javert's half-mast cock as it rests on his thigh. He sighs. 

"Beautiful," Valjean rumbles, and then he is kissing the length of it from the head to the base. Javert cries out and grips at the pillow, stomach clenching. He rises to full hardness beneath Valjean's tender ministrations. Soft, barely-there touches, the slightest suck on skin and then nothing but the torment of hot puffs of breath. Javert shivers and trembles for him,

"Stop- I don't deserve-"

"Let me," Valjean rumbles and then his hand is cupping Javert's balls and his lips closing around the head. It's ecstasy. He has never felt anything like it. So slow, so safe, teasing him painfully towards completion. There's no thorough sucking, no swallowing, just gentle flicks of the tongue and warmth and then the cold rush of air contrasted with the heat of kisses. 

"-Valjean!" He cries, "Jean-" he is broken. Whatever strength or resistance remained in him is lost. He succumbs to the will of his new owner and passes into the blissful fade of his orgasm. Valjean's tongue licks him through it, his hand resting firmly, soothingly on a shaking thigh.

When he pulls away, he kisses up Javert's stomach, nudging his erection against Javert's taint. Javert wraps his arms around him and pulls him in. With a little oil and a little guiding it is easy and painless, and Valjean plasters himself over him and works inside him, rolling and groaning his way to completion. It does not take long and Javert kisses his face and strokes his spine as he rumbles and shudders. He rolls to the side and they wrap themselves in each other's arms, noses pressed into cheeks. They kiss each other lazily. It's natural to rest forehead to forehead, to breathe in each other's breath. Time passes in a dream, or perhaps it doesn't pass at all. Eventually, Valjean groans and lifts himself, first to clean them both then to stagger downstairs on aching knees. He reappears with a tray carrying a half-full bottle of wine, two glasses, a teapot and two cups awaiting tea. He puts them down on the bedside table. Javert grunts and drags himself up to sit against the headboard. He's sore but smiles helplessly when their eyes meet. 

"Wine, Monsieur, or tea?" Valjean asks, towel thrown over his arm,

"What do you advise? What best accompanies sweat and discarded bed cheese?" 

Valjean chuckles as Javert's hand retrieves the lump of cheese they'd brought to bed,

"Wine, Monsieur, it dulls the senses so that you don't notice the hair."

Javert kisses his fingers,

"Magnifique."

Valjean pours them both a glass of wine and then climbs back into bed as Javert breaks the hunk of cheese in two. They lie in bed, side by side, munching on cheese and sipping wine. 

"What a life," Valjean sighs. 

They laugh again like mad people until they're crying tears of disbelief. It's sheer madness that the world has turned so upside down in little under a week! Only a week to transform, to evolve from hunter and hunted to resting peacefully side by side; not only equals but something more. Valjean presses a firm kiss to Javert's forehead and then jumps when the doorbell rings. He leaps from the bed and throws on his dressing gown. Their eyes meet, the spell has been broken and they are wide and fearful. Javert stares back, equally shaken, equally panicked. Valjean presses a finger to his lips and disappears down the stairs. Javert's ears are pricked. He listens, body stretched taut. He only exhales when the thump of Valjean's feet return up the stairway. He pushes open the door, face ashen and holds up a letter,

"Just a letter from my daughter."

It is enough to remind them of reality.

"Yes, good." Javert says, then, "you're flaccid."

Valjean looks down,

"I am," he says, tone halfway between disappointed and relieved, "it's over then."

"Yes."

"Briefer than I feared."

"Yes."

They stare at each other,

"We should bathe and dress," Valjean says, voice trailing off. 

They do, separately. 

 

Once again, the world has turned on its axis.

Javert descends the stairs with heavy treads. His feet feel as though they're made of lead. He stops in the kitchen doorway, hands deep in his pockets, braces half slipping off one shoulder. He is uncomfortable in his last pair of clean clothes.

"I've stripped the bed," he says, "we should employ a washer-woman."

"Yes," Valjean answers, not turning around.

"What are you cooking?"

"Breakfast. Sausage and eggs." 

Javert doesn't have the heart to tell him he's not hungry. He pours them both a glass of water and places them on the table then sits. Valjean serves them both. He muffles a cough in his throat,

"Thank you for stripping the bed, you needn't have."

"It was half my mess."

"Yes."

Valjean, it seems, is not hungry either. When Javert risks a glance up he finds him pushing the food around the plate with his fork. 

"I'm not hungry," he says, offering the man a way out and Valjean looks up relieved,

"Me neither. I will put the eggs out for the cats and birds and perhaps some of the homeless will want the sausages."

"Yes."

He stands and begins the process of wrapping the sausages in paper and depositing the eggs in the garden. Javert sits at the table, fingers dancing on the tabletop, feeling thoroughly out of place. When Valjean returns he hovers in the doorway. 

"I suppose I'll take the sausages now?"

"Yes, fine. I'll have a bath while you're gone."

"Yes, and I'll take the washing too. I know a woman who will clean them."

"Very good."

They don't kiss goodbye. 

The door closes and Javert collapses in his seat, head in his hands. He is at a loss. He realises he had not asked where to find the bath. 

He hunts for it all throughout the house to no avail, then he remembers the little shed and goes out there. The sun is bright and hot as it had been the day before but now, he shields his eyes from it as it gives him a headache. He finds the little shed occupied by a single bed, wardrobe, table and mirror, and a bath. It becomes apparent to him that someone has lived here and he grows annoyed: 'Another secret,' he thinks. 

He carries the bath indoors and places it down in the kitchen and begins the process of filling it with cold water, then, while the water warms to room temperature, he heads upstairs to retrieve bath towels and his hair brushes. 

The cool water of the bath is a welcome relief to his tacky and dirty skin and he scrubs himself thoroughly, paying particular attention to places he'd never cared for before. When he's done soaping his body, he turns to his hair, dipping it, soaping it, and then beginning the painful process of unknotting it. It's horribly matted with sweat and he soon gets fed up, washes out the soap and resolves to do it while he dries. 

Sitting in Valjean's living room, hair still wet, and half-clothed is not a comfortable experience. He feels out of place and rather wishes he were at home at his desk with his little mirror brushing to his heart's content. Instead, he sits taught as a bow string flinching at every sound. Despite his best efforts, he has even developed a headache from the sunlight. He finally gets his hair untangled and wraps it in a dry towel high on his head and sits with his elbows on his knees. What is he going to do? He wrote that letter and then hasn't been to work in what three or four days? He can't bring himself to check a calendar, that would make the madness too real. He wipes a cold sweat from his forehead with the back of his hand. Does he even have a job to go back to? Can he go back to it with a clear conscience after everything he's done and, worse, with everything he now knows? His head feels heavy. He feels sick.

Valjean returns. He pauses in the doorway, stares at Javert, and then closes the door behind him. Javert gives him a curt nod, then looks back sharply,

“You’re pale as death!”

“As are you,” Valjean answers, “I feel cold.”

“As do I.”

“And no appetite.”

“Hmm.”

“Perhaps we should speak to a doctor?”

“Don’t be absurd!” Javert snaps,

“You dislike doctors.”

“My feelings hold no part in this. We’re not sick. Just tired. Vigorous exercise can do that to a man.”

“Vigorous exercise makes a man hungry.”

“Well…. We ate cheese and wine.”

Valjean seems to give up the fight, sagging against the door. 

“I have sent another letter to my daughter.”

Javert's mouth grows dry. 'Telling her you are done tending to your friend?' He thinks. He cannot bring himself to say it.

"How is she and… her beau?'

"Well. Well, not well but better. She said he has been briefly awake. He is hurting in his soul." Valjean looks up, "will you … are you… it occurs to me you might report him for his part in the rebellion?"

Javert scoffs,

"After helping you save his life? No."

Valjean exhales, sagging further against the door,

"Good."

"You thought I would?"

"I didn't know."

"After I have been so gentle with you?" Javert sounds all but gentle now, in fact, he finds himself growing angry, "after I have devoted myself to you?"

Valjean looks up with a face like a guilty dog,

"It's only… I had the feeling as I walked that you regretted…"

Javert feels sick. His anger flees like a dog with its tail between its legs. Does he regret?

"I don't - I won't-" 

"It's ok if you do. I would understand." Valjean says, ever the infuriating martyr.

"I have a headache, and a lot to think about: my job, not turning you and the boy in; it just occurred to me that life continues outside this house."

"Ok."

Valjean does not believe him but he does not believe himself so he can't resent him for it. He picks at the bed of a nail. Valjean breathes in slowly then steps away from the door. He muddles about for a moment, taking off his coat and scarf, and then says,

"I'm going to make some tea."

It's an immense relief when he disappears into the kitchen. Javert spreads his hands over his face in horror. Only this morning that man had been inside of him! An escaped convict! A good man- yes, but a man pursued by the law! He is concealing a criminal from the law! He balls his hands into fists and beats the sides of his head, teeth bared and gritted, eyes squeezed shut. Something latches tight around his wrist and pulls his hand away. He forces his eyes open and finds himself staring into Valjean's face, pale and wrinkled, with dark bags under the eyes, and deep creases of worry around the mouth and brow. He never noticed them before. There are speckles of discolouration on his cheeks, redness and a couple of moles. He never noticed them either. He realises Valjean is talking to him, saying his name-

"-Javert! Javert, it's alright. What's wrong?" He has taken Javert's hands in his own, wrapping those paws around Javert's tightly clenched fists.

"Hush," he soothes, "it's alright." His voice low and smooth and baritone.

"It's not alright!" Javert hisses, "it's not alright! I've ruined everything! Betrayed everything I ever believed in! All my life I've walked on the precipice and now I've jumped! It's madness! You are good! It is wrong!"

"I am human, so are you. Neither of us is good or bad-"

"I am bad! I am bad! I have hurt people- destroyed lives! I was on the side of law and wicked and you were unlawful and good!"

"Javert," Valjean murmurs, gently beginning to rub circles with his thumbs over the hairy, taut back of Javert's fists, "remember what I told you: your soul is with God. You have done wrong but always with righteous intentions. That is not evil, it is mistaken. But the past is the past. We have changed, we are changing."

"Men like us can never change."

"We can and we shall, if we are brave enough."

Javert squeezes his eyes shut and shakes his head. No, no, it's all wrong, it's too easy to simply give his soul to God and be forgiven. It's not right.

"I should be punished."

"You will be," Valjean says, "your conscience will punish you, but it must be a punishment that enables growth. Punishment for its own sake turns men into beasts. You know that as well as I. Javert, you said… you said you wished to give yourself to me. Is that still true?"

Javert shakes his head,

"I don't know."

"No matter. But know this: I am here to help you. You do not have to struggle alone."

"If the law is wrong, what can I believe in? What can I trust?"

"You must choose what to trust," Valjean answers, as if it is all so simple, "because trust is a gift we give. If you will give me your trust, Javert, give it freely, I will work hard to be worthy of it. I ask not that you believe in me, I am no god, but I would like to give you my trust if you would have it."

Javert tests the strength of those hands and finds no give in them. It relieves him. Strength, bondage, loss of control: all comfort him. He exhales heavily and begins the process of relaxing his breathing.

"Good," Valjean murmurs, "good boy. You are strong and brave and stubborn; you will overcome."

The words feel true even though he doubts. He nods his head.

"Good," Valjean continues and he passes both of Javert's wrists into one hand so he can smooth the hair from Javert's eyes with the other, "Good boy. Breathe now. Calm for me."

Slowly the gentle passing of Valjean’s hand over his brow and the steadying of his breath calms him.

“I’m going to call a doctor,” Valjean says, voice firm, “And you cannot debate me on it.”

Javert does not.

 

The doctor is tall and shaped like a barrel, with the natural swagger of an Alpha. He opens his black leather bag and takes out his stethoscope and other appliances and checks over Valjean as he sits at the kitchen table. Javert hovers at the door, pacing and staring, arms crossed over his chest. When the doctor turns to him he balks, but Valjean instructs him with a firm glance and Javert allows the man to place the thermometer under his tongue and open his shirt to listen to his heart. He even manages to only slightly jerk away when the doctor pries open his eyes and shines the light in. The doctor tuts and harrumphs at his resistance then places all of his belongings back into his bag.    

“Well,” he says in a tone ripe with the professional’s arrogance, “You are both perfectly healthy. You’ve recently been in season?”

“Yes,” Valjean answers, flushing with embarrassment,

“I thought so, you both stink.”

Javert bites his tongue,

“Then it's natural you should feel this way,” The doctor continues, “Is this your first time coming into season with a partner?”

“Yes,” Valjean answers again, eyes flicking to the tabletop,

“Well, and you are two grown men! Did neither of you bother to do any research on post-season sickness?”

“I’ve never heard of it!” Javert snaps, “And besides that, that cannot be our affliction because I did not go into heat! I am incapable.”

“And who told you that?” replied the doctor, pulling on his long walrus-like moustache,

“A doctor-”

“An idiot. How long ago?”

Javert flushed, hands moving to clench at his sides, “Almost forty years ago.”

“And you haven’t sought a second opinion since, nor read a book. Of course. You wouldn’t believe how many ignorant people waste my time with their heat-based complaints. You two would be the oldest. I can inform you, in my professional and correct opinion, that you have well been into heat.”

“That’s not possible,” Javert answered, sticking out his chin,

“Have you been unusually hungry?”

“Yes.”

“Unusually tired? Sleeping at strange times of the day?”

“...yes.”

“Suffering from powerful bouts of infatuation? Of the belief that your Alpha is the light of your life? That the sun shines from his very eyes, that you could not live without his presence?”

Javert swallowed,

“That’s-”

“And when you weren’t with him you felt despairing. That the whole world was grey, that you might as well throw away your life if he did not love you.”

“Well,” Javert said, tucking his chin back into his neck, “We didn’t use that word.”

“You have been in heat and he has been in rut.”

“That still can’t be possible,” Javert argued, “Because I would have been in heat before now.”

“Not true,” the doctor answered, raising his chin and looking at Javert down his nose, “How has your diet been?”

“Recently?”

“Historically.”

Javert shuffled, “Poor. Primarily bread and vegetables. Broths and the like.”

“Peasant food. And recently?”

“Lots of meat,” Valjean answered, “Cheeses, milk, vegetables, fruit.”

“There you have it,” the doctor said with a sniff, “Poor nutrition hinders an Omega going into heat. Most Omega’s struggle to enter heat, it is a very common but extremely well-kept problem. Doctors have been writing papers for years on the relationship between nutrition and heat. If you ever read a scientific paper you would know.”

Javert grunted,

“And it has been a perfect circumstance for you,” the doctor continued, “No doubt you have been living here being cared for by your Alpha?”

“Yes,” Javert conceded,

“Then it is obvious your body has decided that now is a suitable time. They are a very clever thing bodies, even when their occupants might not be.”

Valjean wiped a cold sweat from his brow,

“And… doctor… if it is true, we have both been in heat then does that mean…? I mean that, is there a chance that we could… that we could be a bonded pair? That I have made my claim?”

The doctor stared at him,

“Well? Have you?”

“Have I what?” Valjean blinked,

“Claimed him?”

“I don’t know,” Valjean answered,

“Dear god, how can you not know?”

Valjean sat back in his chair, hands flattened on the table,

“Well, sir, I do not know what it entails.”

The doctor laughed then, a short derisive sound that had Javert tensing as if to leap upon him and tear out his throat,

“Another well-spread ignorance! You have been reading too many romances! A claim is nothing, it does not exist. It is an idea created by the Church to keep young Omega’s and Alpha’s from mating with more than one partner! You two are truly a pair of ignorant ninnies the two of you. A claim is something that takes time and effort, it involves the re-scenting of a partner, it takes commitment, dedication and love between two consenting adults. It is simply another name for marriage or, worse, love. If you do not love each other do not fear, you have done nothing that cannot be put behind you. Now, if you’re done using me to avoid making the effort of reading a proper book I will be going. I have actual patients. Your symptoms will lessen over the course of a week and then you will be yourselves again, for better or for worse. Whatever else needs to be sorted between you is a private matter and one I have no interest in.”

Valjean stared at him, mouth agape,

“Payment.” The doctor said and Valjean leaped up and pressed the money into his hand, tipped his head and led him out.

When he returned, he stood in the hallway and they stared at each other in silence,

“Well,” Valjean said,

“I would disembowel that man,” Javert answered.

 

What was it then? That thing which now spread between them, taught and fragile and inexplicable. They slept in bed together still, back-to-back, and washed separately. Over the week their appetites improved but their desire for physical contact did not. Javert returned to work and suffered the consequences of sharing his troubled thoughts and Valjean retreated to his daughter. They spent their evenings in an uncomfortable silence. 

Javert looked at him, really looked at him. There were things now that he saw that he had not seen while caught in the mad rush of heat: deep creases, wrinkles, sagging earlobes, thinning hair, the softness of his stomach and chest as he ages, the wiry hairs that he had to pluck from his ears and nose in the morning. Javert looked at Valjean and wondered if he desired him. He was too afraid to wonder if he loved him.

It seemed they were both too afraid to confront the problem and neither of them knew who would have the bravery to step up to it first.

It was Valjean, much to Javert’s surprise. 

They were sitting in the dim light of the living room, Javert stretched out on the sofa and Valjean hunched over the desk writing when he looked up and met Javert’s eyes,

“I wish you wouldn’t look at me like that.”

Javert blinked,

“Pardon?”

“You look at me as you looked at me in Montreuil sur Mer, as though you suspect me. Your eyes search me.”

“I do not-” Javert swallowed and then he stood, rising to his full height. For the first time in some while he watched Valjean flinch with fear and he felt his heart stutter, “Valjean,” he rumbled, “it is true my eyes are searching but they do not persecute. I… I am searching. I have been trying to find in you an answer to the problem the doctor set us- that circumstance set us. I- I have,” here he balked, “I have been trying to understand if I love you.”

Valjean paled, 

“Oh.”

“You look fearful at that.” Javert said,

“No. I- I am. Yes, I am fearful.”

“You have not thought on it yourself?”

“No. I have been avoiding it.” He cast his eyes down with shame.

Javert’s hand clenched,

“Well,” he said, “Think on this: If I were to love you, would you object?”

Valjean fiddled with the papers in front of him,

“I will think on it.”

They did not speak on it again. In fact, Javert moved his belongings (but for a perfunctory few which he left as a reminder to Valjean to think on his question) back to his apartment and Valjean went briefly to stay with his daughter. They did not see each other for some weeks.

The world was not grey, Javert found, but it was cold and confusing and harsh. It battered his mind and soul and he found himself often behaving in ways that he felt would make Valjean ashamed of him. He always promised himself he would keep them secret and yet spent his evenings committing his sins to paper and mailing them anyway. Valjean’s brief letters of forgiveness did not entirely comfort him but then warmed him somewhat. He walked occasionally to the gate of that now abandoned house and stood at it, looking to the windows for signs of life and thinking on how he had sat on that little bench in the wind and rain awaiting his master. 

This was how Javert learned that Valjean was home.

The curtain twitched and Javert waited until Valjean came down and hobbled up the pathway to open the gate for him. Javert scowled; the man in front of him was bowed, pale and frail. Not like the Alpha he knew so well.

“Valjean,” he rumbled,

“Javert.”

They went inside together.

“You look unwell,” Javert said, taking off his coat and hat and hanging them. Valjean passed his hand over his face as though he were closing the eyes of a corpse,

“My daughter is getting married.”

“I see.”

They stood in the living room until Valjean said,

“I will make tea.”

“No-” Javert answered stepping forward to clasp him powerfully around the bicep, “No. Tell me, have you thought on my question?”

Valjean‘s eyes looked everywhere but his face,

 “Yes,” he answered guiltily,

“Then do not be afraid, man. Put me out of my misery.” 

Valjean looked up at him pleadingly,

“You would let me make tea first?”

“No.”

He sighed, “I have spoken with my daughter. I must confess I told her everything- well, not everything. I needed her youthful wisdom. I had to know what it felt like to be in love.”

Javert swallowed,

“And?”

“And… I hope you might forgive me. Yes. I think I might love you. Be in love with you.”

“You think?”

“Javert,” Valjean said warningly. Javert growled back, equally warning,

“It is only,” Javert said seriously, “That I am certain I am in love with you.”

Valjean looked up at him and, yes, that face was handsome even with all of its wrinkles and hairs and moles. It was more than handsome, it was beatific. Valjean’s hand rose, trembling, and gently cupped Javert’s cheek,

“You are certain?"

“Yes,” Javert answered, voice rough, “Very. I have thought long and hard on it.”

“Then I am certain,” Valjean whispered and his hand moved tenderly down Javert’s cheek to rest upon his jaw and then to slide its fingers through the coarse hair of his beard.

“Valjean,” Javert said, voice trembling, “May I kiss you?”

“Yes,” Valjean answered, and his smile was blinding.

 


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The evening has well settled in and the party has grown raucous. It certainly feels like time to leave, the wedding couple themselves seem to be perpetually on their way to edge out of the door, but Valjean knows in his heart of hearts that if it weren’t for Javert being there to tug him out into the garden for a walk that he would try to spend all night into the new morning by his daughter’s side. She is a wife now. She is a woman now. He, selfishly, cannot bear the thought of giving up his little girl. 

Javert has linked their arms and dragged him out beneath the moon to walk with hands gripped tightly. This man, this wonderful man, has kept him distracted from his melancholy all night with a gentle hand on his thigh, or even the sneaky pinch of his bum when nobody was looking. Javert is grinning at him now, a little red-faced from more than wine, dark eyes glinting in the starlight. He is walking them without shame in a specific direction and although he makes light conversation, mostly leaning down to murmur into Valjean’s ear how handsome he looks in his tailored olive suit, it is obvious he is eager to get them under cover. There is a little summer house in the garden for young lovers and Valjean expects them to sit together there but Javert pulls him behind it and presses him up against the paneling to kiss him hungrily. When he draws back, he is all teeth and gums, nose wrinkled with delight. 

“Oh, I love you, Jean Valjean,” he purrs, “you have looked delicious all night.”

Jean giggles, 

“Don’t,” he murmurs, pressing his hands to Javert’s chest, not to push him away but to draw him closer, “people will be wondering where we are.”

“Envying me, you mean,” Javert grins, “thinking to themselves how they wish it were them that handsome bull was bending over and splitting open.”

“Don’t!” Valjean cries as Javert leans down to capture his mouth again. When they break apart, he whispers, “you have been terrible all night. What has brought this on? You must be ready for your heat.”

“It’s not that,” Javert murmurs, nuzzling his cheek, pressing exploratory kisses along the arch of his cheekbone to finally suck on Jean’s earlobe in that way that makes him sigh and wrap his arms around Javert to draw him closer. 

“It was thinking about this,” Javert breathes over his ear, fingers finding Valjean’s hand and tracing the band of silver there on his finger. 

Oh.

That.

Yes, that thing that Jean had thought of far too soon and far too obsessively, and, yet, in his typical fashion, how he had put off and put off the decision; pacing the floor at night and tossing and turning in bed. Javert of course knew him too well and one day had returned home with the two simple bands. He had opened the box with a fearsome,

“This is what has been worrying you isn’t it? Here, no more keeping me awake.”

And they, both at a loss at how this thing was to be done, had both taken a knee and laughed as they placed the rings on each other’s fingers. 

Jean being Jean he had wanted to keep it secret from Cosette for fear of ruining her wedding planning but Javert had insisted on honesty and she had been delighted for them both and even attempted to talk them into a shared ceremony! What a terrifying, diabolic thing that would have been.

“Our wedding won’t be anything like this,” Jean murmurs, pressing soft closed mouth kisses to Javert’s heated lips as Javert attempts to capture his mouth and deepen them,

“Thank God!” Javert grumbles, “I’m much more interested in the honeymoon”

He draws back to purr, eyes half-lidded with desire, 

“Yes,” he says, “I have been thinking of the honeymoon, and I have been thinking to myself: why wait?”

His hands, which had rested on Jean’s waist make their way like spiders up and down his sides,

“Why leave the vigorous sex for after marriage when we have been doing so well so far with it?”

“Javert,” Jean grouses, eyelashes fluttering in a way that would be more suited for a teenage girl. Oh, how they both love this coquettish game: the chiding, the resistance, the feeble attempt at deflection; the illusion of a chase when they both know that the capture lies inevitably at the end. It only excites Javert further and he growls as he presses his erection into Jean’s belly and kisses him with open-mouthed hunger.

“A naughty dog needs a master with a firm hand,” he growls, “a disobedient subordinate needs to be reminded of his place.”

Jean giggles, inevitably submitting and taking two firm handfuls of Javert’s pert behind and squeezing them roughly. Javert growls in his ear,

“Come on,” he says, "you have wanted me all night, the same as I have wanted you.”

“We can wait until we get home.”

“Can we?” Javert says. Jean gasps, scandalised,

“You wouldn’t suggest!”

“Come now,” Javert pouts, “you have loved every touch and tease tonight. How you’ve blushed and batted your eyes in encouragement when I pinched your behind! How your fingers stroked mine when I caressed the inside of your thigh beneath the dinner table! Don’t try to tell me it had not crossed your mind.”

Yes, true, he had considered finding a dark lonely room with a dark lonely wall to pin Javert against but he had just as quickly realised that those were the thoughts of a madman.

“How jealous they all are of me,” Javert hisses in his ear, fingers tugging at the hem of Jean’s trousers as he rolls his trapped cock against the old man’s still firm stomach, “how they envy me. Knowing that this big handsome bull is all mine. That I know what it feels like to have him inside.”

“Javert,” Jean murmurs, voice low and rough. The chasing is coming to an end.

“Jean,” Javert rumbles in his ear, “press me up against this wall. I’ll tug down my trousers and you can have me right here. It’s quiet, it’s dark, we’re alone.”

“Someone would catch us,” he whispers, brushing his lips over the corner of Javert’s mouth,

“And what?”

Jean giggles again, nervous, 

“No!” he whispers, “It is my daughter’s wedding!”

“An evening perfect for love. Let me show you how much I love you.”

“Javert,” Jean said, sinking so easily into that stern commanding tone that takes Javert by the balls and can make him do just about anything, “I’m not going to make love to you in the Gillenormand gardens.”

Javert pouts, his bottom lip quivers,

“You would let me suck you then?”

“No!” Jean says, voice wavering, fierceness breaking around a little affectionate laugh,

“Oh, Jean,” Javert whines, pawing at his chest, “I have been coming apart all night for you. You wouldn’t torture me? Not when some part of you,” his hand brushes over Jean’s trapped cock, “has been wanting me just as badly.”

Jean shudders. Whatever he had intended to say is cut off by the sound of girlish tittering. Javert darts to the edge of the wall and peers around. Jean can tell from the way his face screws up with annoyance that the little lover’s house has visitors. Javert darts back to him pulling him into a firm kiss,

“It doesn’t matter,” he whispers, “I will be very quiet with it.”

“Javert!” Jean whispers back. He can hear the voices of a young man and woman talking quietly. No doubt they are using the summer house for its proper intended purpose.

“Come,” Javert whispers, taking him by his hands and leading him further into the corner of the garden. There are prickly bushes here and low plants and they giggle foolishly, logic impeded by love and wine and the maddening moonlight. They kiss between breathless noises of pleasure and soon Javert is tugging Jean against him again so that he can feel the length of him against his stomach and hip. 

“On the grass,” Javert encourages and Jean submits to his will and they lower themselves awkwardly, all jutting elbows in the dark, to kiss on the grass. Javert’s hands stroke down Jean’s stomach to tug his shirt from his waistband and Jean tuts,

“Ah, I did not consent to that.”

This is all still the chase. He will keep resisting, he will keep running, putting up barriers, Javert will keep jumping over them, pursuing relentlessly. This particular barrier does what it is intended, drawing a hot rough breath from Javert, an exhalation of desire. 

“Please,” he murmurs, sliding his body on top of Jean in the dark, knees getting green on the grass as he rolls their trapped erections together, “Please,” he murmurs, “I will not even spill. I won’t have my release; I will wait until we get home. I will sit in the carriage hard all the way home,” he says, “for you. I will be so very good and so very stiff and won’t do anything about it. I’ll be all yours when we get home. I just want to taste you. I just want to suck you. I have been thinking on it all night. I wanted it even before we left.”

Jean’s hands have found that pert behind again and he squeezes it harder, driving the hips down against him. He pants into Javert's hungry wet mouth,

“Jean,” Javert breathes, “I’ll be so quick and quiet I promise. No one will see. Come. Let me suck it.” 

Jean grunts and Javert pants, eager with excitement, as he wriggles his way down his bull’s body tugging his shirt from the waistband completely and rubbing over the big trapped erection. He unbuttons the trousers and releases it. Jean almost does not have enough time to shove his hand in his mouth the muffle his moan as Javert takes him deep in his mouth and sucks him hard, moaning around him with relief. Indeed, he is making good on his promise of making it quick. His hand, with the wedding band, links its fingers with Jean’s free hand, the other big hunter’s hand cups Jean’s fat balls lovingly. 

In the dark, the wet sound of Javert’s sloppy suction is almost unbearable. It’s terrifying to think they might get caught. Jean’s heart is beating itself against his ribs, it feels as if it might flutter right up his throat and out of his mouth. His fist, clenched between his teeth is the only thing holding it in. He rolls his hips, thrusting into Javert’s hungry mouth as the man drools over him, drawing back only to slide his tongue beneath the foreskin to lick all around that sensitive head. This is madness; completely irresponsible. It is an excellent distraction from the grief of giving away a child. Javert draws off him to growl,

“Jean, fuck my mouth. I want you to watch.”

Jean groans but he cannot resist and he releases Javert’s hand to grip his hair and sits up to watch his cock thrust against the back of Javert’s throat. To stare into his beloved’s eyes, watering with pleasure, black as the shadow of the gently swaying tree they hide under. When he cannot bear it anymore, he spills and Javert, always Javert, swallows him down. 

Those loving lips press an affectionate kiss to the head of his cock and then Javert’s big predator’s hands are tucking him gently and tidily back into his trousers and straightening his shirt and waistcoat.

“You’ll have to help me up,” Jean says breathlessly and Javert chuckles,

“I know,” he replies, “I do good work.”

He helps Jean up onto shaky legs and Jean’s hand finds Javert’s painfully hard cock in the darkness. Javert hisses.

“You’ll do as you promise,” Jean rumbles, “How will you hide it?”

“I’ll tuck it in my belt,” Javert pants, “and I wore my long coat.”

 

They make their way back across the garden, completely uninterested in the pair of young lover’s canoodling in the summer house, and head straight to the doorman to request Javert’s coat. There is only so much the night can hide. Jean touches his face in shame and requests a piece of paper to write a letter to apologise to his daughter,

“I am so ashamed,” he whispers to Javert, “if only we had not! I might go inside without everyone smelling what we have done!”

“They have been smelling our lust all night!” Javert replies in a hiss. It is not comforting. Jean hands the letter back to the doorman and requests he take it in for the bride.

They get in one of the coaches and begin the journey home in relative peace. After about ten minutes Javert unbuttons his coat and releases his cock from his belt. Jean tuts,

“You promised nothing until we got home.”

“I keep my promises, Jean. When have I not?”

Still, his roguish wolf’s smile suggests otherwise. Jean raises a brow at him but says nothing. 

Slowly, cunningly, Javert’s hand finds its way to rest on Jean’s knee. He sighs but when he casts his eyes at Javert he finds the man feigning innocuous interest at the view outside. Jean harrumphs. It occurs to him that he has as much power over this man as this man has over him and he places his own hand on Javert’s knee. How quickly Javert’s leg’s part. How quickly he turns eagerly and says,

“What will you do with me when we get home?”

“I don’t know,” Jean chuckles, “you have made something of a barrier for yourself as I do not know if I will be able to get hard that quickly.”

“I don’t care,” Javert says with breathless urgence, his thigh muscle tensing under Jean’s gently caressing hand, “You know I take anything you give me. How I delight in your delight, whatever it may be.”

Jean chuckles again and even slides his hand up to stroke that sensitive join where thigh means hip. Javert gasps.

 

Love has been an unexpected delight. Love with this man an even more unexpected delight. They had spent a year falling in love all over again and it had been a tumultuous, frightening and exhilarating year. It happened that, even without the heat of hormonal madness, they connected wonderfully in the bedroom. This applies even now, when Jean commands Javert to undress in the hallway and then carries him upstairs to what will be their marital bed. They stumble briefly on the stairs, and laugh with breathless fear, smothering the sound with kisses and then continue on their way. Jean, it happens, cannot get hard again in time but he folds Javert in half regardless and thrusts his fingers inside of him until he’s crying out with pleasure and spilling between Jean’s pursed lips. 

They lay stretched out beside each other, bathing in the warmth of each other’s nude bodies. Completely comfortable and content. Their fingers find each other on the mattress and link.

“We will be Monsieurs Valjean,” Javert murmurs, “Or Fauchelevent. Both.” 

“I’m sorry I can’t give you a last name to be proud of,” Jean sighs. Javert’s looks at him,

“You are. I have never had a last name. No name to be proud of at all. Whatever name of yours you give me I will… there is no word for what I will feel. For what I feel now. You do make me feel proud.”

Jean meets his eyes and smiles at him. Javert’s face softens in a look of affection. 

“Then why have you been unhappy?” Jean whispers. At this Javert frowns, turning his eyes to the ceiling, brow heavy,

“It has been nothing to do with you. It is only me. I am unhappy with me.”

Jean’s fingers stroke over the back of his knuckles,

“Tell me,”

“I have been trying to be better,” he says, “I have been trying to be better for you but I can’t help but feel I’m failing. I thought I could change things. The Law, I mean. First, I thought that if I changed myself that would change the Law but I found what I did undone by those around me. Then I thought I could change those around me to change the Law but that is undone also. You know, they even called Chabouillet out of retirement to question and chide me? Can you imagine my rage? The indignity! As if I were his little boy and he my father called into school to give me a telling off!”

He shook his head,

“I have realised I am living the life of a dog with two masters. I just don’t know what to do.”

“I’m sorry.”

“It’s alright. I must think is all, and that is hard for me. I must find some solution. I just don’t know… if that solution lies with the Law.”

Jean frowns, 

“You are too young to retire. I know you too well,”

“I know.”

“You would drive yourself mad if you were at home.”

“I know. I cannot do a desk job.”

“Hmm.”

They look at the ceiling together.

“I just don’t know who I am if not Inspector Javert.”

“Javert Valjean.”

Javert’s laughter is surprised and delighted and catches quickly. 

“Yes,” he says, “I suppose so. I just wonder who he is.”

“My husband.”

“Hmm.”

“My lover.”

“Hmm!”

They chuckle again and sigh again.

Javert turns Valjean’s hand to look at the ring and then brings it to his lips, kissing it,

“I love you,” he says, “but if I don’t have a job, I will drive you mad.”

“I know.”

 

After a little while, when they have both begun to doze, Jean finally says,

“You know… I had been thinking on this myself but was afraid to mention it for fear you would shut down my suggestion without thought.”

“Hrrm?”

“It is only my thought that there is no reason you should not continue using your great depth of knowledge on the Law. I have plenty of money and Marius plenty of connections. You might-”

“No,” Javert answers.

“There,” Jean pouts in the dark, “I knew you would not give it a chance.”

“I am not letting other men make my life for me. No offense, my beloved, you are not just other men, but you know how I loathe-”

“Spending my money. You mean I know how proud you are.”

“It’s not pride-”

“It is.”

“Hrmmph.”

Javert sighs,

“To ask Marius for help… of all people.”

“If it meant you could be a lawyer it would be worth it.”

Javert is quiet. Finally, he says in a voice that makes Jean’s heart ache,

“I’m too old and… I am not intelligent enough.”

Jean rolls over, throwing his arm over his beloved to embrace him,

“Oh, my love, you are.”

“I’m not. You know how I struggle to read… it is an effort. All those books I would have to read.”

“Yet you have read so much! I would read them to you.”

“I couldn’t make you; it would be unfair.”

“You wouldn’t have to make me do anything. Oh, my love, you would be just as worthy as any man at Law school, I promise you. More worthy.”

“They would not think so.”

“And you would let some stuffy-nosed boys scare you away?”

He can feel Javert’s fearsome pout and he leans in and kisses that face adoringly. 

“Javert,” Jean says, “think of how much good you could do protecting innocents from corrupt law officials. Think of how shaken those boys would be to see a man who has worked hard to come from nothing supersede them all. I would be here, always behind you, always supporting you, believing you. I would make your notes, read to you, anything you wish.”

“I don’t even know if they would accept me. I never went to school.”

“Let me solve that.”

His hand presses over Javert’s heart,

“Please, let me make your life easier. As your husband.”

Javert grumbles again but kisses him on the nose. Jean’s hand slides up to find his cheek in the dark and he kisses him gently and deeply.

“I love you,” he says against those lips, “I believe in you. Let us make the future together.”

“Yes,” Javert answers, voice low and soft with love in the dark of their shared room, “I would make a world with you.”

“Our world,” Jean says, “a better world.”

Javert smiles,

“The world of Javert and Jean Valjean.”

 

Thank you for reading everyone! I hope the ending is satisfactory. I know it's a bit of a twist an end for this appearing halfway through Monsieurs Dog but I am nothing if not disorganised.Thank you for reading.Much love,Mr. Bird