Title: Another story must begin
Work ID: 51272806
Author: Miss_Lyuba_Smith
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Hurt/Comfort, Songfic, Angst, Drama, Love/Hate, Pre-Slash
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Javert was drowning. A mad foamy whirlpool was sucking him in, there was no strength to resist, no strength to get out. Javert tried to take a breath, but was choking. The stars shone through the thickness of the muddy cold water — so ominously, so condemningly! However, Javert still tried to reach them. But the stars melted, and instead of them he appeared — number 24601. Valjean looked the same as he did then, in Toulon, twenty years ago. Javert screamed, but his scream could not be heard. Javert was choking and could not breathe. He tried to run away from Valjean, even into this hellish whirlpool, into the darkness, just to run away from Valjean! But Valjean was inexorably overtaking him, coming closer, there was nowhere to run, nowhere to retreat, nowhere to hide. Javert was cornered. «Please don’t! No!» — the Inspector begged the convict. But Valjean took out a knife and cut the non-existent ropes on his hands, which made Javert’s hands tightly tied. These bonds burned his wrists like hot chains, they were inhumanly heavy, they bent him, pulled him down, and Javert fell into the mud, at the feet of 24601. From bottom to top, he looked into the mercilessly merciful eyes of his benefactor-tormentor. «You are free, ” — Valjean pronounced the sentence. The earth disappeared under Javert and the opening abyss swallowed him up.

Javert woke up, jumping up in bed. His shirt was soaking wet from a nervous, painful sweat, and clung unpleasantly to his body, as if he had been in that damned river again.

The Inspector understood that it was a dream, but the horror of the dream receded slowly, the dream still felt more real than reality. Javert tried to stop trembling and even out his breathing. He felt disoriented; he could not immediately remember where he was.

But when he remembered, he felt even worse. For about a week now he had been staying in the house at 55 Rue Plumet. He could not understand exactly how many days he had been here, because he did not know how many days he had spent in delirium, and, of course, he was not going to ask him this.

Javert felt defiled by Jean Valjean. Jean Valjean trampled the law. Jean Valjean seduced the inspector from the path of truth. He drove him to suicide, but didn't let him leave with dignity, and pulled him out of the river in order to humiliate him, force him to live in shame, and continue to torture him.

And also, ever since Javert woke up in Valjean’s house, a nightmarish obsessive thought was burning in his sick mind that now the same thing was happening to him as with that whore many years ago. That woman lost her dignity, just like he does now. She deserved prison, punishment. And Valjean brought her to his home and nursed her, and now he is doing the same to him. How low Javert has fallen — now he himself is dirt picked up on the street, at the mercy of Valjean. This thought made him want to smash his head against the wall or return to the cold water of the Seine.

Breathing heavily, Javert looked gloomily at the simple interior of the darkened room. Daylight filtered dimly through the tightly closed curtains. Javert lay back down and turned to the wall.

As soon as the inspector's heart calmed down and his breathing evened out, there was a knock on the door, causing Javert to jump up in bed again.

— Inspector Javert! Are you awake? — that hateful voice. It was as if he had been standing outside the door all the time and could see through it when Javert came to his senses.

Javert did not deign Valjean to respond. Door opened. The powerful figure of Valjean appeared in the rays of soft diffused light. The mighty figure of Valjean appeared in the rays of soft diffused light.

A bleak picture appeared before Valjean's gaze. Like a prisoner in a jail cell, a haggard, sick, broken man sat dejectedly on the bed in a dark and stuffy room. This man recently tried to take his own life, and even now he was only partially alive, only physically. Valjean noticed how tense and nervous the Inspector was when he entered. How he turned his face to the wall, trying to hide his gaze. Valjean saw Javert's fear and shame, hatred and self-loathing, lack of understanding of how to live on, and unwillingness to live.

Every night Valjean heard the Inspector scream in his sleep. Still, it was better than what had happened just five days ago, when Valjean had spent several days with the feverish Inspector. Of his delusional speeches, Valjean could only make out «24601» and «no.»

And this was much better than how nine days ago Valjean pulled an unconscious cold body from the Seine and resuscitated Javert on the embankment, feeling his pulse with horror and hope.

When Valjean brought the wet and delirious Inspector to his home and laid him in his bed, he thought that he had been here once before, in this situation. Only in Javert’s place was Fantine then. For the first time in a long time, this woman's presence made Valjean feel that he was not alone. But she died. Then Jean Valjean found a daughter. Now Cosette has grown up and is starting her own life.

And Valjean had nothing left. Nothing but duty to the law, nothin but a complex relationship with the man who embodies this law.

Valjean did not hate Javert. On the contrary, over all these long years of persecution, a connection arose between them that can be called attachment, interdependence. They both got to know each other well and learned each other as if they were friends. Valjean respected and admired Javert. He did not know a more loyal, devoted, honest, reliable and responsible person than the Inspector, even if these qualities were directed against Valjean. Valjean felt that the Inspector was always with him, always close, always following. Valjean was afraid that if Javert caught him and sent him to prison, Cosette would be left alone. But, no matter how strange and irrational it was, the thought that there was a man in the world who needed him so much and was important warmed the heart of Jean Valjean. Even if this man needed him based on a manic idea of justice. Valjean felt that there was actually something else behind this, something more, whether Javert understood it or not.

Although Valjean probably realized this only when he saw Javert throw himself into the river. Valjean couldn't let this connection break, couldn't let another significant person leave. He didn't care what the Inspector would do to him when he came to his senses. The main thing was to save him, to preserve this incredible connection.

***

The inspector did not keep track of how Valjean managed to so unceremoniously let life into his room. The heavy curtains were open, the window was open, the room was filled with morning light and freshness, the smells of flowers, coffee, and hot baked goods. The noise of the city could be heard from the street — voices, laughter, the clatter of hooves, the ringing of church bells. The surrounding reality was filled with life. Javert was the only gloomy, lifeless spot on the bright, colorful canvas of that day.

— Good morning, inspector! How are you feeling today? You don’t go outside at all — it’s so nice there today. I would invite you with me to distribute food for the poor in the square, but I am afraid that they may misunderstand your appearance.

Javert looked murderously at Valjean. Valjean stood in the rays of the morning sun, golden dust particles flying in the air around him. His hair beautifully framed his face, and his eyes beamed with acceptance, warmth and care, looking at the Inspector. Valjean seemed to radiate light himself.

— When are you going back to your job, Inspector? — Valjean asked as if nothing had happened, sitting down next to the Inspector's bed.

Javert turned pale at such impudence. Valjean said this as if he did not understand what it meant.

— I left the police and had no plans to return to work. And don’t call me Inspector, — Javert managed, trying not to look Valjean in the eyes.

— It's a pity. You left your post not long ago, and there are already riots on the streets of Paris. This city needs you, Javert. The law needs you. A person like you is needed to maintain social order. I think you did a great job.

Valjean said this easily and calmly. Javert's blood began to boil and he began to shake.

Jean Valjean dares to lecture him, preach him mocking morality, contemptuously talk about his work, express his opinion! And what kind of opinion is this? That a policeman who allowed a criminal to get away, a suicidal loser, a mentally unstable person has the right to stand in the service of the law?! What does he know? After everything Valjean did to him, he still mocks him, mocks the law?

Javert violently grabbed Valjean by the collar and yanked him towards him.

— How I hate you! — Javert hissed in Valjean's face. — You're a fool! I'll put you behind bars, Valjean! I'll send you to hard labor!

— By the way, what about this? You've wanted this for so long. Now I'm ready, I'm all at your disposal, Javert.

Valjean looked into Javert's eyes and he felt sick from his gaze. The soft and calm gaze of Valjean's blue eyes made the Inspector want to hit, kill, or maybe something else, something different. Javert pushed Valjean away from him and jumped out of bed.

— Damn you, Valjean! I do not believe you! I know who you really are! You are a thief, you are a convict, you are a criminal! You always have been, and you always will be! You won — why are you babysitting me now? I broke the law, I am a fallen man, I am a suicide. I'm your enemy! How dare you treat me like this? How dare you talk to me like that? You must hate me, despise me, you must wish me dead, you must have killed me then, and you… you… How dare you care about me, how dare you not hate me? You've forgotten what world you live in, Valjean! You are breaking all laws!

And Javert spat in Valjean's face.

The image of Fantine immediately flashed painfully in Javert's mind. He took the place of this whore, he became exactly like her!

Valjean wiped his eyes and looked at Javert with longing and pity. In Valjean's eyes, Javert read the memory of Fantine. But even worse, he saw that Valjean knew that Javert was comparing himself to her. Javert felt that his consciousness was darkening, he was suffocating, everything was clouded before his eyes. His face was distorted, he screamed strangledly as if in severe pain and fell to the floor sobbing.

Valjean tried to pick him up and put him to bed, but Javert struggled. Then Valjean dropped to the floor next to him and grabbed him by the shoulders, covering the Inspector's shuddering body with his own. Javert felt the warmth and heaviness of Valjean's body, and convulsively dug his fingers into his hands. The police inspector, in the most pitiful, shameful and insignificant manner, sobbed bitterly in the hands of the escaped convict.

All these years, prisoner 24601 has been Inspector Javert's passion. This was the only thing that made the Inspector alive, awakened human emotions in him, distinguished him from a machine. Javert saw 24601 exclusively in some dramatic, supernatural, religious image — Jean Valjean was for him either a devil or an angel, but not an ordinary man. Because Javert did not know men like him.

The thought that one day he would catch Jean Valjean was for Javert a light in the darkness, a guiding star. It nourished him, gave him hope and vitality, made his stone heart beat. There was nothing and no one else in Javert's life. No one interested him as much as 24601. He knew no one as much as 24601. No one aroused in him such feelings as 24601. Hatred, rage, thirst to catch, imprison, punish, destroy. But along with them there were other feelings. The Inspector did not dare name them, but they were affection, respect, admiration, and then gratitude, and even awe and worship.

And then, finally, he found Valjean. But not in the way he expected. It was he who found himself in Valjean's hands, it was he on his knees in front of him. But for some reason Javert felt warm and calm. As if everything is as it must be.

Javert did not yet understand, did not accept this, but he felt that he had no other way in any case. Either the cold, murky abyss of the Seine, or the warm embrace of Jean Valjean. He's already tried the first one. He wanted to escape from this world, the world of Jean Valjean, but it didn't work out. Valjean wouldn't let him do it. Maybe try to give this world a chance? And Valjean. And to himself. It was wrong, illegal, but Javert felt that Jean Valjean had long ago atoned for all his sins and should be forgiven.

Then maybe Javert also has a chance for redemption and forgiveness? For the old Javert, such concepts did not exist. But in those minutes that he spent in the Seine, a part of him remained there and died. And now there was only this. Incomprehensible, frightening, trembling, warm, soft, accepting, forgiving.

— Hush, hush… — Valjean whispered through his tears, tightly hugging Javert, who was shaking with sobs, laying his head on his chest and rocking him. — I order you to forgive yourself, Javert.

Sitting on the floor with Javert in his arms, Valjean remembered that he had once been in his place — lost, confused, despairing, embittered, drowning in darkness, but yearning for a new life. One day another story began for Jean Valjean. Another story must begin for Javert too. For both of them.