Title: black glass, white beads
Work ID: 33247153
Author: feetass
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Dubious Consent, First Time Blow Jobs, Anal Sex, Identity Issues, Forced Orgasm, Minor Violence, Light Bondage, Suicide Attempt, Character Death Fix, Javert Comes In His Trousers
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

The night air was cold on the neck of the young guard of Toulon, who had been regarding the stars. Head upturned, he granted himself a momentary reprieve from his duty, rationalizing, as he did so, that he was not remiss – looking at the stars was to him as fortifying as prayer. As he took scrupulous care in all other aspects of his life – in maintaining his peak physical condition, in abstaining from drink, in shunning base temptations – so he must also take care to frequently remind himself of that grand celestial order, which reflected a nobler constancy than any mortal man he had ever come across in his burgeoning career.

This was his reverie as he heard the unmistakable click of a snapped twig.

Jolting to attention, the guard whipped his head around and searched the darkness. He was standing at his post on the northeast corner of the bagne, where he had been making rounds up and down the eastern wall, weaving between the cypresses.

He heard nothing further but the hum of the sea. But he did not allow himself to relax. His senses, he often flattered himself to say, were sharp; there had certainly been a foot that caused the twig to snap. Peering into the shadows cast by the cypresses, he looked for a hidden form. Seeing none, he walked carefully in the direction of the sound, along the wall.

The night was still with the occasional gentle and chilly breeze. The sky was mostly clear. The stars glistened vibrantly. A lone cloud moved in front of the nearly-full moon, widening the shadows as if they were pooling liquid. The scene was so serene that the guard had nearly eased himself back into his contemplative reverie when he suddenly realized he was half a meter from the dark shape of a crouching man.

The guard extended his baton in a calm, smooth movement, belying his own abrupt terror. He knew he could project authority, it was always his will to do so – but he could not help but feel a thrill of fear and disgust, and a heightened awareness of his own body’s vulnerability. “On your feet,” he spoke with a clear voice, heart pounding.

The mass of shadow did not budge. The guard had nearly resolved to strike when it at last did move, uncurling like a caged animal set free – it was indeed a man, who rose to his full height, a good ten centimeters above the guard. His face was still obscured, dim and formless in the cloud-choked moonlight, but the guard recognized his body instantly.

There was only one convict in the bagne who had this build – tall, broad, but not bulky, dense like a hound, with the staggering power of a piston in each limb; the other inmates, and eventually the guards, called him Jean le Cric for his inhuman strength, but the guard thought it improper to honor a prisoner with such a florid nickname, and always referred to him, mentally, by his prison code.

“Against the wall,” snapped the guard. The convict, again, tarried in obeying, but then stepped from the shadow of the cypress to the stone wall, and faced it. The guard swept his eyes over him – tattered uniform, craggy skull patchy with mange, bulging neck, calloused hands, a raw band of scabs on his wrist where one should typically find a manacle.

“I know you,” the guard said, wedging his wooden baton between the convict’s shoulder blades, pressing him fully against the cold masonry. The convict let out a short and bitter gasp. “Prisoner 24601 – this is not your first escape attempt, nor your second. Then you know well that the punishment for attempted escape is a three-year lengthening of your sentence. Was that not penalty enough to still your criminal urges?”

The convict said nothing, but the guard saw his ribcage expand and compress, tremulous and slow, as he no doubt attempted to quell a hideous rage.

The guard paused, and again regarded the criminal. Was there trembling in his fingertips? Some escapees begged for mercy on their knees when caught, but that did not seem a tactic that 24601 would use. No, this man was known to be quietly defiant – he spoke little, was slow to obey, and would flaunt his insubordination with a threatening stare even as his body submitted to hard labor with shocking ease. It was that lack of humility that had first led the guard to fixate on him, and seek him out among all the other prisoners, to observe, when they (chain gang and guard company alike) sweltered under the unforgiving sun.

In the barracks, guards often exchanged schemes for breaking such unrepentant prisoners – the ones who were not content to humbly serve their time, but defied the law at every turn. He had seen 24601 beaten many times. He had seen him in the stocks, leg hair matted by his own piss as he stood for hours. He had seen him lashed until his back oozed. The guard had never been the one to enact these punishments, but had given much thought as to what could truly induce submission in a man who endured all else with barely a grunt.

“Turn around,” said the guard, “and on your knees.”

For whatever reason, this time the convict obeyed promptly, startling the guard, who took a step back. The convict sank to his knees on the damp grass and cast his gaze down, his eyes hidden in shadow, his strong cheekbones jutting above a wiry beard.

On these late shifts, with all silent, the guard’s thoughts had often wandered to the concept of punishment. In his estimation, all the convicts of the bagne had been hardened at one point or another by physical pain. Like the leathery skin of their hands, their entire bodies had become inured to whips and batons. These abuses, the guard reasoned, only served to embed them further into their perverted shells. That shell must be cracked open for true penitence to take place; they needed humiliation in order to be laid open before the light of God. He had never administered the particular punishment he was now considering, but the other guards were often advising it, with smug and bitter laughter, and the guard surmised that he could manage to enact it now.

The guard’s cock twitched slightly as he extended his baton and with it tipped up the chin of the convict, who still would not meet his eyes. “For your third strike,” the guard said, attempting to smooth his voice and reveal nothing of his ratcheting nerves, “a novel penalty is in order.” With his free hand he undid the front of his trousers and pulled his swelling cock into the filtered moonlight. “I’m sure you’ve some experience with this particular vein of corporal punishment.”

The convict flicked his gaze to the cock and immediately looked away. He gave a brisk shake of his head.

The guard faltered. “No? Then I have some hope that it may temper you yet, 24601.”

The convict now looked directly at him, eyes hollow in the night. “My name is Jean Valjean.”

The guard gave him a swift crack on the collarbone with his baton. Valjean winced and gave a sharp gasp but returned to placidity in moments, and resumed his defiant stare.

“I have no need of your name,” the guard snarled. “Mine is Javert – may you ever remember who brought you to heel on this night.”

Valjean gave him a grim look. But just as Javert was on the verge of preparing another strike, Valjean swayed closer, then took two steps on his knees, bringing him centimeters from the half-stiff cock. Without the slightest hesitation he opened his mouth and closed it around the tip. Javert let out a slow exhale. Warmed by the convict’s tongue, his cock rapidly hardened, and Valjean, who at first had seemed almost chaste in his attentions, gulped it deeper.

Javert was not prepared for the sensation. In thinking of this scenario, which he thought of more often than he would ever admit to himself, his primary delight stemmed from the satisfaction of subduing a hardened criminal. There was a righteousness pervasive in the act, in concept; it was almost biblical in its profundity, for such an act must be infinitely humiliating for the one who received, and conversely very empowering for the administrator.

He did feel powerful; at least, he thought he did. His cock had rarely grown so hard. But there was something disturbing about the softness of the convict’s tongue. His whole body was a mess of bruises and scars, yet his interior felt luscious and painfully pleasant, like a ripe fruit.

Valjean did not seem practiced; he went haltingly, yet the very unevenness of his rhythm was paradoxically arousing. Eyes closed, dark eyelashes trembling, he swung his head down until the whole cock was nearly in, and Javert felt it press against the warm back of Valjean’s throat. From there Valjean rubbed his tongue up the shaft, and gave the slightest stifled choke, then moved back, nearly moving off entirely, but stopped at the head, rubbing the tender edge with his full lips. Javert had remarked often on those lips.

Something felt off. The pleasure was intense. But the righteousness that he had so often fantasized about seemed to ebb with each thrust of the convict’s head. Javert swayed, and, not wishing to touch the man with his hands, steadied himself by placing the tip of his baton in the shallow hollow at the back of Valjean’s head where his neck met his skull. Valjean took him deep then, and Javert reddened with fury as he realized rough groans were escaping from his own mouth.

“Two fo–” Javert was panting and could not finish his sentence, nor did he know what he had intended to say. This was wrong. He had not known the act would make him feel so weak. Moments before he had felt himself the embodiment of authority; now, with his legs beginning to shake, he sensed the raw form crouched beneath him exacting some kind of unholy control.

Then, time seemed to slow. The light changed. The light – the thick and lonely cloud had moved off of the moon. Javert looked up and felt that the moon was the eye of God shining a terrible light into his soul. Then he looked down.

Valjean was staring up at him, cock halfway in his mouth. His gaze pierced. His eyes once hidden by shadow were now exposed, brilliant brown, and glittering in the moonlight. The corners of his soft lips curled in a savage smile. One of his battered hands was between his own legs, clutching something bulky through his trousers. Javert had the sensation of falling even as he stood frozen. A hideous feeling of dread suffused his entire body. He felt a terror he could not attribute, and had no way of knowing that this was the awe of seeing an unforgettable sight, one that would loom in the darkness of his dreams for decades to come.

Javert moved feebly to pull away. Valjean moved forward to keep him trapped, and took him deeper. Javert began to hyperventilate. Somehow, at some point, he had dropped his baton; his hands helplessly grasped air. He moved one hand to push against Valjean’s forehead but Valjean snatched it with his own strong hand, and grabbed Javert’s other hand with his other; with a forceful thrust Valjean pushed him back a few centimeters, up against a cypress trunk, and pinned his hands down against the bark.

Javert tried to buck him off; Valjean forced him back against the tree. Javert squirmed, but every motion seemed to heighten his erotic agony – Valjean’s tongue was working him, and the convict’s mouth was hot and wet and slick. He tried to kick and Valjean’s thick legs were like columns of marble. Javert thrashed his head back and forth impotently. A frightening feeling was building within him. He could not stop – everything urged on an inevitable release: his straining arms pinned solidly at the wrist, the broad chest that pressed against his thighs, the scabbed head he saw pounding down on him, relentless as a storm –

As if he had been knocked from a cliff and had no choice but to fall, Javert felt a cascade of white-hot anguish and spent deep in the convict’s throat. He knew he was gasping but could barely hear himself, let alone the sea, above the blood rushing in his ears. And Valjean, hungrily, had pushed himself deep on Javert’s cock, his nose pressed into the trail of hair from his belly to his shaft, and was drinking him down.

The next sensation Javert felt was a strong thud against his left shoulder. He scrambled and thereby ascertained that he had collapsed onto the ground. His hands were free. He blinked furiously, trying to clear the haze of darkness that had hit him – details swam in the shadows, he could hear nothing but a sweet hum, his fingertips prickled, his face was numb. Valjean was nowhere. The pleasure was still there, in his bones, seeping like honey in a cake. Gasping for breath, Javert touched his own face, oriented himself, cursed, tucked his wet cock into his trousers with vicious embarrassment, and tried to stand, bracing himself against the tree.

Down the row of cypresses he saw a shadow darting. Without stopping to search for his baton, he charged forward, breathless before he even began to run, his legs weak.

As he rounded the corner of the wall Javert called for the watchman there, his voice an unrecognizable smear of pained wrath. Off in the distance to the north he heard shouts from where the two northern perimeter guards were stationed. He clambered into the ditch and hopped out the other side, dashing through a barren lot of disused bricks and pillars, glancing quickly to avoid errant obstacles in the darkness.

He could make out his two colleagues in blue at the end of a furrow. They were waving at him – no, they had arms raised, but were not facing him. They were whirling their batons around like windmills, but where was Valjean? The two guards were whaling on what looked like a large rock in the middle of a clearing, and as Javert approached he heard not the earthy clatter of wood on rock, but the sickening thud of wood on flesh.

He slowed to a jog and then a full stop, still several meters away. Over the rhythmic rushing of his own breath he could hear the grunts of the guards and that dead thump of blows landing on bone. The moon shone and he saw the crouched figure between them, curled up in a ball, thick knots of knuckles where he was protecting his neck and head with both hands.

He was not moving. Javert could see his eyes, narrow with rage, which darted around like those of a trapped rabbit, and only stilled when they happened to catch Javert. Valjean looked at him, with a gaze impossible to interpret, and then squeezed his eyes shut against the streams of blood that flowed from his forehead.

–

He saw Valjean often over the next eight years, but never from any closer distance than that; he would see him splitting stones in the quarry or digging in the fields, and if Valjean ever looked at him, Javert did not see him do so.

Javert watched from afar also when Valjean’s sentence was completed and he was awarded his yellow passport. Valjean did look at him then, briefly, though Javert had tried to be discreet. How strange it was, to see him walk off down the road like any free peasant, while Javert remained behind, one hand on the wall, steadying himself against pangs of some unknown emotion as Valjean’s distant form vanished behind trees.

 

–––

 

Javert was looking at jewelry. Having little to no aesthetic sensibility, he could not form a strong opinion on what he saw, but he granted the craftsmanship was good. There was little else in the room he could look at to pass the time – from the front corner of this, the office of a M. Madeleine, one could see the factory floor below, but that had already exhausted his interest.

So instead his eyes roamed the small room; it contained a rustic wooden desk and chair, some beaded samples which lay upon the otherwise bare desk, and in the corner an armchair with worn upholstery... and a window without curtains that looked down into the street. It was a spartan setup, but Javert admired the modesty of the furnishings; they did not seem shabby, rather, respectably efficient.

Footsteps on the stairway outside made him snap back to attention. He straightened, held his hat behind his back, and looked to the door, which opened, and Jean Valjean entered the office.

For two moments, Javert stood stunned. Doubting his own sanity, he gave a quick bow and a “Monsieur le maire,” and when he had risen from his bow the man was no longer Jean Valjean. No – of course not. How bizarre that he had thought so. They looked nothing alike – a similar build, perhaps – but this man, Madeleine, was clean-shaven, with a healthy head of black curls that greyed at the temples. His coat and vest were clean and unostentatious, his shoes shone, and he stood with a gentleman’s carriage. Certainly a man who had never been beaten, never done hard labor, had not the strength of le Cric even if he was tall and broad like him.

They exchanged formalities and discussed the administration of justice in Montreuil-sur-Mer. Madeleine was soft-spoken, with a clear and gentle voice. In his capacity as mayor he had formed many opinions on law and order, and Javert agreed with most, though he found others a touch liberal.

“I have found,” Javert said, conciliatory, yet not wishing to bend from his convictions, “that when punishment is spared, criminality proliferates.”

“Would you not say,” replied Madeleine, moving to his desk, “that some punishments are best left for our savior to mete out? It is an impossible task, at times, to weigh a man’s soul, mere mortals as we are. But God in his wisdom will guide the penitent down a just path.”

To punctuate, he picked up a rosary from the desk and offered it, wordlessly. Javert reached forward to accept. The patter of the beads falling into his hand made him think, inexplicably, of semen landing on his palm.

–

Before meeting Madeleine, Javert had not dreamed of Jean Valjean in Montreuil-sur-Mer. There were no cypresses here, and the hectic nature of his new position granted him long days and heavy, dreamless sleep.

When he awoke with a shudder the night after he met Madeleine – his sheets damp with sweat and, he soon bitterly realized, with his seed as well – he cursed that he should have been reminded of the convict who had so often haunted his dreams in Toulon.

He had learned, of course, that Jean Valjean had broken parole and disappeared soon after his release. The knowledge had done much to shake him out of a strange fugue that had gripped him ever since Valjean left Toulon. It was like a fixed star in a spinning world, this knowledge that criminals could not change after all. Banished were the strange trains of thought that made him wonder if Valjean had taken a wife and started a family in some small rural town, living out the rest of his days in peace. Of course there was no rehabilitation for that scoundrel.

In the dead of night he returned in his mind to that moment, sixteen years ago; he replayed the events by the wall, but in the fantasy of his own telling Valjean did not overpower him, instead, it was Valjean who was wracked by debilitating pleasure and fell to the ground. Javert kept his pride by pleasuring himself over the convict’s twitching form, spattering his filthy face with pale droplets. And Valjean would gaze up at him with the ecstasy of St. Teresa, a changed man, purified by his own debasement; he would morph into a gentle creature, and when Javert planted a boot next to his face, Valjean kissed it with gratitude.

He saw Madeleine often in the course of his work. He could not dispel the comparisons to Valjean, but soon he thought of them less as doppelgangers and more as evidence of some cosmic joke. For Madeleine was learned and witty, sharp of mind, and compassionate – sometimes overly so – with his employees and citizens. He embodied well those Christian principles which Javert heard preached so often – forgiveness, empathy, hospitality – though he himself considered those principles intended for the waylaid, not those who had righteously earned power, as Madeleine had. In short, he was a fine man, and not a criminal.

–

The two of them bickered one day, in Madeleine’s office. Javert was espousing harsh treatment for a band of gamins who pickpocketed in the square. Madeleine was arguing for leniency. They parted without resolution and Javert was still arguing with Madeleine in his mind hours later, in the evening, as he patrolled the wharf, when he came upon a gentleman assaulted by a feebleminded prostitute.

Javert bid his subordinates seize her and bring her to the jail. He was mentally composing a defense of his harsh actions to Madeleine when the man himself emerged from the shadows. Javert had never seen him in the night before, and something about the moonlight on the edge of his nose and brow gave him a jolt of displeasure. They argued viciously then and there, which ended in Madeleine overruling him and directing Javert’s men to bring the woman to the hospital. He dismissed Javert without the slightest attempt to salve his wounded pride, and the sight of Madeleine walking away stirred another strange, pained feeling.

Humiliated, Javert turned to attend to the rest of his watch, but a crash and commotion inland sent him running in the direction Madeleine had gone. He arrived on the scene in time to see Madeleine, coat discarded, gripping one corner of a cart filled with barrels and boxes. Loose iron cleats tumbled from the cart and sang as they struck the cobblestones, and the cart was lifted, and wailing women dashed from the crowd to pull out the man who had been trapped underneath. 

Javert stared fixedly at the curve of Madeleine’s neck, and his straining hands, which, as Javert had noticed on previous occasions, were calloused to a degree unbefitting a gentleman. He remembered a winter’s day in Toulon when he had watched Valjean lift a beam that four men had struggled to move. And he had then also looked closely at Valjean’s neck, and the fluttering dark eyelashes, and the hard hands.

Javert returned to his apartment, composed a letter to his superior officers calling for the investigation of Madeleine as a possible false persona of the convict Jean Valjean, masturbated, and went to sleep.

–

A week and a half later he received a letter back, read it, and went immediately to Madeleine’s factory, where he had not been since the day they quarreled.

Madeleine’s face betrayed some surprise when Javert was shown in. He stood from his desk and walked past Javert to the door, which he closed, greatly muffling the hum of the factory. “Good morning, Inspector – to what do I owe the honor of this visit?”

“Indeed, monsieur, I dishonor you, and have come to beg…” Javert trailed off. “... for disciplinary measures, for I have committed a grave error.”

Madeleine said nothing, but urged him on with a gentle nod.

“Monsieur, I believe I have mentioned I was a guard at the bagne of Toulon before my arrival here.”

Another nod, this one slower.

“There was a convict there, an infamous man, who was known for his feats of monstrous strength. Shortly after completing his sentence, he failed to report to the local magistrate as was his duty as a parolee, and is still at large. When I saw – when you lifted that cart – monsieur le maire, I deeply regret my mistake, but the shock of seeing a man your age manage such a task… I entreated my superiors to investigate you.”

Madeleine’s face darkened, no doubt mortally offended. Javert looked down at the floor, and saw Madeleine turn from him and walk to the window.

“Of course,” Javert continued hurriedly, “I come to you now with the full knowledge of my oversight. I knew this convict well – you are nothing like him, no, you are a great man and a credit to this city. I will write to my superiors this afternoon, expressing my guilt, and I will inform them –” he straightened and looked up, Madeleine was at the window looking back at him, “– that my punishment is in your hands, as is fit, given it is your name I have maligned. I entreat you to dismiss me from my position here.”

Madeleine blinked, and seemed perhaps confused. “Punish you? Me?”

“It is fitting, monsieur, as I have said. And please do not go lightly, I beg you – I know you are a compassionate man to a fault – please heed the many conversations we have shared on the nature of vice. I have… I have been consumed with an unhealthy fixation on this convict, ever since… he disappeared. Therefore I should not be coddled with mercy. I have let myself grow distracted from my true occupation, which is to ensure the safety of these – your – streets.”

Madeleine’s look of confusion had been replaced by one more somber, which now shifted, under Javert’s nervous glances, into one of mild curiosity.

“We indeed argue often on the efficacy of a harsh punishment,” Madeleine said, quietly, and he stepped away from the window back towards his desk, and walked around the front of it, near to Javert. “You must have witnessed, and wrought yourself, many brutal punishments in the bagne.”

“Indeed,” Javert said, his spine stiffening. “Some men – a minority, in my opinion – respond favorably to pain. I do feel that I deserve lashes for my failure. But pain is relatively fleeting compared to disgrace. Therefore I request that you dismiss me from Montreuil-sur-Mer.”

Madeleine softly tsked. “Inspector, though some of our views differ, you have become indispensable here, and brought many murderers, violators, and corrupt extortionists to justice. I would not see you dismissed. I’m sure we can settle on a punishment that leaves you feeling suitably chastised without impeding your responsibilities.” He tilted his head gently to one side and leaned back against his desk. “Apart from physical cruelty, were there any subtler punishments exacted in the bagne? I have no taste for administering the whip.”

Javert suddenly found himself dizzy. “Monsieur… you ask me to speak of grotesque acts which no gentleman should be compelled to imagine…”

“I am no prude,” said Madeleine. “And are you not often encouraging me to be less soft?”

Javert could not pinpoint when his hollowing dread had turned to an effervescent excitement that bubbled in him like wine. Desperately he tried to read Madeleine’s tone, the words unspoken between his statements and questions, and the language of his body as he leaned back on the desk with his legs crossed at the ankles.

“There is,” Javert began, haltingly, “a form of discipline with which I am but passingly familiar; the other guards spoke often of it, and touted its effectiveness. The most brazen criminal, so they said, would be reduced to utter degradation thereby. Though this act posed some risk for a guard of Toulon, seeing as –” he stopped, swayed, strengthened, continued, “– it involves, monsieur, placing one’s most vulnerable organ in the mouth of a treacherous lion, so to speak… and they took preventative measures, these guards, to proactively ensure the docility of their charges… as I am, monsieur, a strictly law-abiding man, despite my momentary lapse in judgment, you would not…” He paused, breath trembling, ”you would not need to fear… any such peril… from me.”

There was a painful pause. “So,” Madeleine said, “you made cocksuckers of them, is that it?”

Flushing crimson, Javert could only nod.

Madeleine gave a broad grin unlike any expression Javert had hitherto seen on his calm face. “Indeed, Inspector, I think this punishment suits us both, as it will sufficiently humiliate you without causing the slightest guilt to me.” With that, he uncrossed his legs, slipped one hand down the front of his trousers, and wrested out a startlingly large cock – which, Javert realized, after recovering from his initial surprise, was still mostly soft, prompting a further wave of shock.

“I do believe you can do nothing for me from where you stand,” Madeleine said. And, catching Javert’s agitated glance towards the door, he added: “We will not be disturbed. All my employees know they are not to mount these stairs if my door is closed.”

Javert took a deep breath, and then, barely thinking, slid to his knees. Madeleine’s cock was thick, heavy, nestled in dark hair, and lightly twitching. Javert longed to put his hands on it, but did not know if that would be welcomed, so he instead brought the head of it into his mouth with a kiss. There was a taste there like a breeze from the sea. He ventured to take it deeper. The feeling of the flesh hardening with every touch from his tongue was enthralling. The more he tried to take, the more it seemed to evade him, swelling as it did; soon he found himself struggling to take more, and it was barely halfway in. Recalling Valjean, he began to move his head back and forth, letting Madeleine’s cock slide down his throat as far as it would go, then withdrawing, caressing the shaft with his tongue as he went. It grew ever harder.

He did not dare look up, though part of him longed to. He wished to know if he pleased the mayor. He could hear no moans, but now and then sharp inhales, which encouraged him. Javert’s own cock was straining below, and he dared not address it either. He felt something that was not quite shame, though maybe a neighbor to it. He had felt such an excruciating guilt at being wrong. This act, degenerate as it was, was soothing the pain of that guilt. He felt that order was being restored, and justice done. The heartsickness he felt – it was impossible to name. Had he not, occasionally, in dreaming of Valjean, sometimes found him transfigured into the gentle mayor who now blessed him with his favor?

Javert felt a warm palm on the side of his cheek. His eyes shot open – he had closed them in rapture. Another hand made itself known on the back of his head, fingers twined in his hair. On his cheek, a thumb stroked his skin. On the back of his head, a palm pushed, ever so lightly.

Taking the touch as permission to reciprocate, Javert reached up and spread one hand on Madeleine’s thigh, then slid it over and took the base of his cock between thumb and forefinger. Stroking him firmly, Javert renewed his attempts to swallow as much as he could, and worked the magnificent cock deep down his throat, eyes watering. He heard a murmur from Madeleine that he could not make out and the hand on the back of his head pushed more firmly.

The sensation of Madeleine’s strong hand on the back of his head sent Javert into delirium. Again remembering Valjean, he grasped his own aching erection through his pants, hoping the mayor would not notice, or at least would show him some of his treasured empathy. A few rubs brought Javert to the brink. He faltered, contemplating the indignity of spilling in his trousers, and then continued rubbing, deciding he did not care. Three strokes more and it was happening, he grunted and then groaned around Madeleine’s cock, but did not pause his attentions, even as dizziness swarmed him. The hot pressure on his tongue only intensified his own pleasure.

Head clearing, Javert attended to his task with fresh vigor. Working his throat, he massaged the head of Madeleine’s cock, bathing the shaft with his tongue. He reached up his free hand and cradled the mayor’s heavy balls – he wished he had tasted them too – and Madeleine responded with a gasp, a curse, a groan, and then spoke, quietly, but with strangled effort, “This too is a component of your punishment, Javert, swallow –”

Thick seed flooded his mouth as Madeleine stifled a guttural moan that came out like a growl. The taste was bittersweet, delicious, unlike anything Javert had ever tasted. He strained to swallow every drop, but with a choke he felt some dribble out. He sucked Madeleine’s cock thoroughly, working his way down to the head, panting, until he finished as he began, with a deep kiss on the tip, and then he stared at the lurid red beast of a cock as it drifted back to rest.

Javert wiped the rivulet of semen from his chin with the back of his hand and felt Madeleine’s eyes on him. He glanced up.

Madeleine was watching, his hands gripping the desk, his face serene. He was breathing deeply, as if at rest. Then, as if abruptly awakened, he pushed his softening cock back into his trousers, straightened his coat, and swiped his locks back into place with a few practiced flicks of his fingers. He instantly transformed back into a respectable businessman. His expression became austere.

“Is something wrong, monsieur?” Javert rearranged his own tousled hair and stood up.

Madeleine’s gaze remained pointed towards the floor, where Javert’s face had just been. He did not speak. Then, dreamily, he said – ”I found myself wondering if you’ve done this before. With some other man.”

“No,” Javert answered abruptly, and then, “except –” and halted just as suddenly. An uncomfortable silence ensued.

“One other man, then,” Madeleine said, moving away from his desk and towards the window.

“One other time,” said Javert. “It was just one incident – a momentary lapse. I was younger. I… received, I did not provide. And it was not with a man with whom I would be proud to associate, monsieur.” Javert hoped the unspoken compliment to Madeleine’s worthiness would not go unnoted.

“A fellow officer, perhaps,” said Madeleine, his back to Javert. He was watching the street below.

“No.”

“Don’t tell me the scrupulous Inspector Javert stooped to engaging a rent boy.”

“No,” Javert said forcefully, and then, with some contrition, “but he was a criminal, to my shame.”

When Madeleine said nothing, Javert continued. “At the bagne in Toulon, when I was a guard there. As I said, I was young. I had witnessed the other guards engage such measures to enforce submission in their charges. There was a convict I dearly wished to break...” He paused. “As he defied the rule of law by breaking his parole, I cannot say that I successfully expunged his criminality. But I daresay that he has not forgotten our encounter.”

“I should think not,” Madeleine said. He turned and looked to Javert, who stood at attention, looking as crisp as when he had first entered. “But tell me, surely you do not mean the convict you mistook me for – what was his name?”

Javert set his jaw. “I do not recall at present,” he said, not wishing to feel the name in his mouth, “but his number was 24601.”

A slight smile tugged Madeleine’s lips. “How fascinating – that I remind you of such a man.”

“You are alike him only in passing,” Javert asserted hurriedly. “A slight resemblance – and the commonality of your great physical strength – but he is a depraved criminal, not an upstanding gentleman such as yourself, monsieur. I meant no offense –”

“I understand you,” Madeleine said dismissively. “and I take no offense, but I do wonder at your surety, Inspector.” The mayor blinked languidly and shifted to one foot as if pondering a gambit. “The years can wear down or break a man, but with God’s grace the reverse is also possible, that a wretched man may be uplifted to a position of wealth and power – and rich clothes can hide many traces of former poverty.” He fixed a stare on Javert. “What was it that made you rescind your accusation when you came to me in penitence?”

Javert smiled now, with grim satisfaction. “Oh – it’s quite decisive… they have caught him, and brought him to Arras, and he goes on trial this afternoon. He fought like the devil, which sounds about right, though he’s much weakened since I last saw him, by all accounts... and as he would not give a confession, I am to identify him; I depart soon.” He sighed, again with satisfaction. “I look forward to it – I confess I was haunted somewhat that he has evaded capture these many years… I’ll rest well when he is back in the bagne.”

Madeleine had turned back to the window. “So he denies it all?”

“Typical of a convict, monsieur, but I know his face very well –” Javert glanced at Madeleine, who still had his back to him – ”I will bring him to justice, it’s certain. And at any rate, he has the mark of the bagne on him.”

Madeleine said nothing for a time, and then, with a half-glance over his shoulder, dismissed Javert without further dialogue.

–

Javert was uneasy as he descended the stairs from the mayor’s office. He felt uneasy at the station, at his apartment, and in the carriage to Arras, though he was not sure why. Likely, he reasoned, it was the prospect of seeing that man again.

Jean Valjean – of course he had not forgotten his name. He felt proud of himself for affecting such a disinterested tone in Madeleine’s office, as if this man had not been a fixture in his thoughts every day for nigh on a decade. He was frightened of seeing him, though he knew it would bring relief – the relief of no longer feeling perverse surges of emotion when Madeleine gave a certain gesture. He could replace Valjean in his heart, devote himself instead to winning the mayor’s respect and esteem. Yes, it would certainly be a relief to put the matter to rest. He should welcome the opportunity to do so.

And yet – he was frightened, undeniably, as well, of the piercing dark gaze that would be turned on him, a gaze that would dig up their shared secret, like a reopened wound, and bring those intense feelings to the forefront when he had struggled so long to contain them. Like the look Valjean gave him when he left with his yellow passport – a deeply knowing look, one that shamed him.

Valjean had managed to haunt him so long with so little; therefore, despite Javert's attempts to embrace calm neutrality, he was forced to admit to himself that he had good reason to dread the coming encounter.

–

In the courtroom's antechamber, his hands trembled. The moment of anticipation stretched out perversely. When he was directed to his seat in the court, he did not allow his eyes to search the room desperately as they so desired. He looked ahead and focused on the judge's words.

Once or twice in his peripheral vision he caught the edge of a tattered sleeve on the man in the dock – a man turned away from him, so only a quarter of his profile was visible – but the sight of that neck caused his heart to pound, and he silently begged God for strength. At last, the judge summoned him to the stand, and he strode forward with the air of conviction that came naturally to him, thinking, as he mounted the stand, that surely Valjean was more afraid of him then he was of Valjean – that if laying eyes on that awful, beautiful face was a frightening prospect, perhaps he could comfort himself with the assurance that his own countenance would inspire as much terror in the other man.

Javert introduced himself to the court with a firm and steady voice, and before the judge had finished his command – "Inspector, do you recognize the accused?" – Javert had let his eyes glide with sickening fatality to Valjean's face, but instantly he was overwhelmed by the rushing of blood in his own ears, and darted a hand out to grip the podium, for the man's face, while it would pass for Valjean's if described in writing with broad superficialities, was, in fact, in the flesh, absolutely not the face of Jean Valjean.

The judge was repeating his question. Javert exhaled a breath he had not intended to hold, and tore his eyes from the face of this incidental godforsaken man, who, on account of not being Jean Valjean when Javert had wished him to be, was loathsome to regard.

The judge was asking a third time and Javert interrupted him, curt and bitter. "I do not recognize this man," he spat, not intending to disrespect the law, yet not able to contain his disgust at his own miserable position. "This man is not Jean Valjean."

A murmur in the courtroom, which had been a mild whisper even before he had spoken, escalated to a babble, and then crescendoed to a roar as the main doors flew open with a clatter and the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer strode in, somewhat disheveled but still exuding a bold dignity, sweating as if he'd only moments ago dismounted a galloping horse, which Javert supposed he had. Their eyes met. Javert shook now with rage and righteous indignation and a third incomprehensible sensation; one that manifested as a cascade of thoughts that came compulsively, as if he was shouting them to Madeleine in his mind: "Don't – don't speak – be silent – leave –"

He watched helplessly as Madeleine addressed the judge, as he asserted the man's innocence, as he claimed he himself was Jean Valjean, and, amid the furor of disbelief, as he untied his cravat and pulled down the collar of his shirt to expose the fleur-de-lis burned onto his right pectoral. The sight of the brand sent Javert spiraling beneath an avalanche of unpleasantly vivid memories. He did not believe it could be true. Yet, at the same time, with a shame that turned his stomach, he admitted to himself that he had always known this was true, and had repressed the fact out of the realm of conscious thought with an elaborate charade he'd been only too eager to accept as reality.

Madeleine – no, Valjean – had been addressing the judge, but now his eyes flickered back to Javert, and he must have seen an urge in Javert's glare that Javert himself had not yet internally articulated, for he turned around and strode back towards the door. Then, perhaps picking out the scramble of Javert's boots as he vaulted over the witness's podium above the din of general chaos, Valjean ran. 

Javert ran also, elbowing the swarming crowd, and fumbled to open the door that had just slammed shut, but by the time he emerged onto the street, Valjean was on horseback, and rapidly vanishing.

–

After a few minutes of nauseating desperation, Javert realized he knew precisely where he could locate Valjean – and, in a matter of hours, he was back in Montreuil-sur-Mer, racing up the hospital steps. The sun was long descended and the halls were hushed.

He found Valjean where he sought him, seated at the bedside of the prostitute from the wharf. Neither stirred. Valjean's cravat was retied, his collar closed. It nearly did restore the illusion, but Javert, having seen that face contiguous with the mark of the bagne that evoked such a powerful sense memory of Toulon, could no longer see Madeleine – much as he might have wished to.

"Valjean – I see you plainly now," Javert hissed.

"And I you," Valjean replied, wearily. "The obedient servant has withdrawn, the brutal arm of the law emerges – no, don't speak," he cried, rising, cutting off Javert, whose rage was boiling. "I have a duty to this woman, who just this moment has gone home to God. Allow me three days – to fulfill my promise to her, to tend to her child, to assure the girl's secure future. Once I have done this, I'm yours to do with what you will –" his eyes darkened heavily, and Javert thought he caught the wisp of a sardonic smile. "I'll submit to your arrest and serve my time –" 

"I am not the imbecile you take me for," Javert spat out. Down the hall, the nuns congregated fearfully. "You may congratulate yourself on humiliating me with a base ruse – I cannot believe I let myself bow to such disgraceful extortion –"

"Come now," Madeleine said, tilting his head and smirking, and Javert felt a twisting pain in the pit of his stomach, for the words tugged at him as if he was a doll clutched in the claws of Satan, and he had not meant to think of Valjean as Madeleine ever again.

"I will bring justice upon myself for my own failings," muttered Javert, "as soon as I have seen you back in manacles. You are a criminal, 24601, no matter what you play at."

"I doubt I can change your mind on that account, but nonetheless, I will keep my word to this woman." With that, Valjean grabbed the chair behind him and broke it on the floor in one swift and shuddering strike. He now held a splintered club. Javert's sword was drawn. They clashed, Javert rabid, Valjean with a steady precision. Javert fought until he panted like a dog, but Valjean seemed to easily parry every thrust, and Javert cried out in frustration as he realized that he himself was embodying the panicked savagery of a criminal, and Valjean the cold order of the law.

“You cannot escape,” Javert barked, “even if you run – you cannot hide your true form –”

“You think you know me, having tasted me?” The verbal jab achieved its desired effect and Javert’s swing faltered as his face reddened. Valjean dodged him easily. “You know as little of me as you do of the world – you confine yourself to the narrowest of dogmas – I am a new man, thanks to the grace of God –”

“You are a beast,” Javert cried, “how dare you lecture me – I know your kind, was raised among them, when I was born in a prison cell!” Javert had not intended to catch Valjean off guard with this statement, but Valjean did indeed give pause, and Javert rushed the opening, narrowly missing as Valjean strafed towards the open window.

Seizing the advantage, Javert continued. “I learned only too well that a convict cannot change his ways. The best we can hope for is to cow him under constant vigilance. How often I heard the vulgar protestations of a criminal begging for mercy again and again and again – it is a waste to indulge them – they who have turned willfully from God’s light…”

“Such sermons from a man who knelt not at a pew, but at my feet…”

“Damn you, you ensnared me!” Javert lashed out violently, but Valjean effortlessly batted his sword to one side.

“If I remember, the idea came to me from your suggestion,” Valjean replied drily, “a punishment of the bagne that you – at first – claimed to know only secondhand…”

“You ensnared me then as well,” Javert murmured, panting, as he strangled the last part of himself that had refused to believe it was really Jean Valjean before him. “God puts you in my path to test me... “

“I would believe that God crosses our paths for a reason,” Valjean said, “but I do not think it is to test your moral absolutism.” He lowered his club, slowly. “Perhaps God, in his grace, shows me to you as an example of redemption…”

“Silence!” Javert raised his sword. “You won’t drag me down with you! By God, I’ll see you in chains!”

Valjean contemplated him but made no move to defend himself. Then, calmly, he stepped forward, towards Javert’s upraised sword. The tip trembled.

“Do you really think,” Valjean muttered, “that you can overpower me?”

Javert said nothing, and did not move, as Valjean turned on his heel and jumped out the open window into the Canche.

 

–––

 

Javert found Paris a strange limbo. The seasons seemed muddled, the narrow streets constricted one’s thoughts, and the shops changed often, especially compared to Montreuil-sur-Mer. The criminal element, at least, was vivifying. Some years past his semicentennial, Javert had not experienced any decline in his zest for justice. Many officers his age rotated to less strenuous career paths. Javert found Paris a wonderland of absorbing projects, and the more he focused on these, the less his mind drifted into that dark place which was an indomitable web of torment to him.

So it was with the satisfaction of a bather vacationing by the seaside that he strode firmly into a scattering crowd of layabouts and petty criminals. One of them had even shrieked his name as he approached – that tickled. He gave a brief, respectful address to the eldery gentleman and young lady who had been accosted, then launched into an oration on the depravity of the delinquents his men had gathered, most of whom were not new to him. He felt a strange nostalgia, not for the criminals, no – there was something else in the air, a scent, that reminded him of a sunlit room and the tangy flavor of salted caramel. Brushing the uncomfortable memory aside, he turned to address the gentleman again, only to find him fled, and the maiden with him.

Javert had developed an acute anxiety around the very concept of men fleeing. And his heart began to pound at the swindler’s description of an ex-convict on the run who hid his past, and his brand, under a gentleman’s disguise – someone who fled at Javert’s advance… 

The nine years he had militantly numbed himself to all memory of Valjean had not been enough, and that night, sleepless, staring at the ceiling, he permitted himself an indulgence he’d sworn off for ages, and stroked himself to thoughts of that tongue.

There was no triumph in his release. He felt, and was, old. His long hair was streaked with much gray. He had not seen the gentleman’s face – and there was no doubt in his mind he would have recognized Valjean if he had – but he had seen the snow-white curls, the edge of a full white beard, a man stooped somewhat from his once great height. He prayed to God he would see him again.

–

It was not long after, a matter of months, when his chance came.

He had not had any opportunity to hunt Valjean, with the city in chaos. He thought of him often, and searched crowds for him, but passively, fearing in his heart that Valjean had surely fled Paris, and that the project of tracking him down would need to be an occupation for his retirement.

It felt like a mercy, then, when the boys at the barricade found him out and trussed him up like an animal for the slaughter. In his mysterious way, perhaps, God had spared him the pathetic shame of spending his twilight years chasing a man who would then be a septuagenarian.

Javert felt chills reverberate down his spine as he urged the boys to shoot him and be done with it. Some of them looked frightened at the viciousness of his command. The capitol embroiled in anarchy, rich libertines playing with guns, Valjean slipping through his grasp for perhaps the last time – the entire situation repulsed him.

But the boys did not shoot him, feigning morality, and instead bound his hands and tethered his neck to a bannister in a tavern.

It was there he swayed deep into the night, thoughts drifting with no particular aim. He had actually been thinking of Valjean at the moment he heard a low and steady voice outside conversing with the students. Not the voice of a hairless bourgeois, but an older man’s voice, firm, calm, strong, sweet. He heard his own name, spoken by a boy, and raised his eyes just in time to catch sight of a lined face, white hair, dark eyes, broad shoulders, as Valjean peered through the glass at him.

Then he was gone, and there was a chorus of gunfire outside, leaving Javert to ponder his life and his choices.

When the shots settled, Valjean reemerged before the window, talking to the young man who Javert supposed to be the students’ leader. There were gestures in Javert’s direction. Javert had not yet decided for sure that this was not a vision of delirium brought on by several hours’ worth of rope pressing on his neck.

Then he was suddenly there, inside, close. Javert could smell him, that same scent. Valjean did not stoop to meet Javert’s gaze, but pulled out the knot that tied his neck to the banister, and jerked him upright, and turned him towards the back door, pressing a pistol between his shoulder blades, as Javert had pressed him with his baton, a quarter of a century prior.

The alley was dead silent, as if the boys and their vigil at the barricade were miles away. The cobblestones were wet with drizzle. There was a moon, hazy through the fog, a nearly full one.

Valjean gently turned Javert to face him, and Javert looked to him without fear. Valjean was aged, yes, but he still bore that strong neck, the powerful hands, the thick legs. There was no trace in his eyes of the savagery Javert had often projected on him in Toulon.

“It is as I have wished,” Javert said, “kill me, Valjean, as you’ve no doubt long desired.”

Valjean let a smile warm his face, but it was not one of anticipation. “I cannot say I have desired that.”

“You are the one to do it. Release yourself from me.”

“I have sensed you on my heels these many years,” Valjean said, and reached his hand down to grab the knot between Javert’s wrists. This he lifted, and when Javert’s arms were taut above his head, Valjean pushed back, carefully, so that Javert was obliged to stagger back on tiptoe, and he felt his back thump against chilly stone. Valjean pulled his bonds up over the stub of an iron bar that jutted perpendicular to the wall, so that Javert nearly dangled, the soles of his boots scraping the ground, and he was suspended there, helpless.

“I don’t understand,” said Javert.

“No, no indeed, I have not known you to understand,” said Valjean, and he knelt.

“You despise me,” Javert choked.

“I did,” Valjean said, undoing Javert’s trousers, “I often did, and I suppose you have despised me, too, at times.”

“What you want you always steal,” Javert whimpered, but his cock had already rose to meet Valjean’s lips. Valjean toyed with it for a few moments, then gripped it in one hand and looked up.

“Do you not give yourself to me?”

“Shoot me like this,” Javert hissed through gritted teeth, “then all of Paris can know what I am to you – a victim of your corrupt torment...”

“You are wrong,” said Valjean, and descended on Javert’s cock once more.

Valjean was gentler than he had been at Toulon, but no less hungry. And the press of his great hands on Javert’s thighs made him ache. Slowly he slid his mouth down Javert’s length while tenderly squeezing his hips. One hand came up and vanished under the hem of the canvas shirt that had temporarily disguised Javert as a member of the disaffected revolutionaries. Valjean’s hand stroked the hair on his belly as if he were languidly petting a treasured dog.

Javert made no attempt to stifle his arousal as he once had, and found himself very soon on that familiar edge, and, believing it would be his last orgasm, closed his eyes with a sob, then forced himself to look down at the beatific Valjean, who, he supposed, was granting him a last rite. Valjean’s gaze flickered up to meet him. Still those full and soft lips, still those glittering brown eyes. Javert groaned a crescendo and willed that he would not black out. Valjean’s face became vibrant with delight as the seed filled his mouth.

When Javert regained control of his senses, Valjean was still kneeling before him, head down, curls dewy. Then he raised his head and reverently returned Javert’s cock to his trousers. Javert’s whole body twitched like a violin string at the feel of those fingers on his sensitive skin.

“I thought often of that taste,” Valjean said, rising. “Chicory coffee with cream but no sugar… a sage leaf, raw… no, not quite. There is only one flavor like it... not that I have ever tasted any other man but you.” He regarded Javert. “For many… many years, it troubled me greatly that I should remember with such fondness a man who surely loathed me. But perhaps you know what I mean.”

“You despise me,” Javert said again, his voice creaking.

Valjean shook his head. “I hoped that you would know me better by now. You are a man of duty. I do not hold that against you.” From his borrowed army jacket he unsheathed a knife.

The expectation of a blade plunging into his bowels was oddly not unpleasant. Javert closed his eyes. His breath quickened as he felt Valjean draw close. Their chests pressed together. One arm wrapped around his waist. There was a sound from above and Javert’s arms tumbled to his sides, and Valjean was supporting him as he slumped, freed from bondage. Javert opened his eyes numbly. Valjean set him on his feet, and gave him the gentlest shove down the alleyway away from the barricade.

“Get out of here,” murmured Valjean.

“If you free me, you’ll regret it,” Javert whispered, unsteady on his feet. “I will chase you til the end.”

“I have no doubt,” Valjean said. “Let’s make it simple, as we’re old men – find me at Rue de l'Homme Armé number 5, when this –” he gestured toward the barricade with the pistol – “is finished.”

Javert stared at him.

“We’ll meet again,” said Valjean, and Javert turned and lurched away. He heard a shot as he rounded the corner, imagined his body limply hitting the stones, but no such luck; he walked on.

–

Javert found himself perversely thinking, as he stood quietly in the shadow of an arch, near a yawning sewer entrance, of Valjean’s cock – why had Javert not thought to look down and see if rendering him that sweet service had engorged Valjean in turn? Javert was miserable. The sky was thoroughly clouded. A pernicious thought had taken root in his brain over the past few hours, and he pushed it away grimly, turning instead to the comfort of his duty. The only action that seemed logical was to arrest Valjean, and put him in the bagne, and leave him to die there. Valjean had more than a decade on him, the bagne was no place for old men – he would perhaps die within a year, and Javert could finally go begin to live his life.

He attempted to fantasize about a life without Valjean. Minutes passed, perhaps half an hour, and he slowly realized his mind was empty – no thoughts, a grey cloud like the ones that hung overhead.

What did he enjoy apart from this chase? The occasional snuff, the odd treatise on crime, certain baked goods from certain boulangeries – but only if he had earned it. The shell-shaped génoises reminded him of Valjean. The lives of others alienated him. He did not have any friends.

He did not even care enough about himself to feel sorry for himself. He stood, mutely, filled with fog, until a distant sloshing pricked his attention and breathed life into him again.

Valjean was caked with shit and carrying a young man covered in glistening stains. Javert stepped from the arch to block his ascent out of the muck. He could not see the young man’s face and had no idea who he was.

Valjean smiled as if he had been expecting him. “I told you our paths would cross again,” he said.

“Come with me, Valjean.”

Valjean shook his head. “Not yet – I have another duty to fulfill. This man’s life is in my hands, and for the sake of one dear to me, I must above all else see him saved.”

“Three days, or an hour, you need, yes – and I will never see you again.”

“Now is not the time,” Valjean snapped, and his mild smile vanished. “He has done nothing wrong… and he deserves the happiness that awaits him if he survives. I’ve told you where to find me.”

Javert was not expecting the hurt that welled in him, childlike.

Valjean set his jaw as if he recognized the wound but said no more, and climbed from the sewage, the young man slung over his shoulder, light as a feather for all the effort it seemed to take him. He passed Javert without a second glance and disappeared towards the thoroughfare.

–

Javert was searching for the stars – there were none. He looked around for another fixture, but saw nothing. The moon was hidden. Somewhere far off, a fire burned. The Seine flowed relentlessly. The pernicious thought that had rooted in him hours before now blossomed – there was not likely to be a God in heaven, or a heaven above, or anything beyond death, Javert had decided.

The thought had come so suddenly and now seemed as if it had always been there. Who was Valjean, what was his meaning? He was not consistent with an ordered world. Javert had so often thought of him as his incubus, but what demon would have refrained from murdering him with impunity?

It would have been better if Valjean had buried the knife in him – Javert had not the will to catch him and no idea what he would do with him if he did. He could not send a saint to Toulon. His mission on earth lay in shambles. There was nothing to do.

He supposed the young man was a suitor of the girl Valjean had adopted. Thinking of Valjean as a venerated father stirred a new heartsickness in him, with an unfamiliar texture, yet it settled in with all the other pains that plagued him.

This pain was his lot, as it had been at the fresh age of 26. His body felt useless. He stood up from where he had crouched on the bridge, and moved as if to return to his apartment, but the prospect disgusted him, and he decided instead to fling himself into the river, and did so.

–

Heaven, or, upon reflection, hell, was to be carried by Jean Valjean as the young man had been – slung over a shoulder. An odd damnation. Javert’s limbs felt impossibly heavy, yet still Valjean carried him with ease. Javert blinked, but could see nothing but dark and twisting forms. There was intense pain in his shin and his collarbone and his shoulder. It all seemed curiously specific for an afterlife.

The thought of a demon in Valjean’s guise, or perhaps Valjean’s true form, tormenting him for eternity, gave Javert comfort even as the pain in his clavicle sharpened to a degree so unbearable that it paradoxically convinced him that he was still alive. He coughed violently, and fetid water leaked from his nostrils.

His consciousness faded, and when it returned he could see Valjean’s face. Javert twitched and felt he was perhaps on the damp grass of a lawn. There were lanterns flickering somewhere. Valjean’s face drew back – Javert lashed out an arm with tremendous effort, and managed to grasp his sleeve.

“Don’t go,” he breathed hoarsely.

Valjean obeyed, but only for a moment, long enough to lean so close to Javert’s face that their cheeks brushed against each other.

“Find me,” Valjean said, “but only – if you are prepared to say what you have left unspoken.” He was then gone; Javert flailed for the sleeve, but that too was gone. There was a dawn light glowing. He heard the beating of footsteps on stone, then the rustle of footsteps on grass, as the sisters of the hospital flocked to where he lay.

 

–––

 

Javert passed two months in the hospital. The sisters were sweet to him, and he was not beyond taking comfort from their noble attentions. But he preferred when they left his bed and he could enjoy the late summer light in silence.

How lonely he was. Not in the hospital, but in life. He had never given a second thought to the fact that his peers went drinking together, took wives, even went on the occasional vacation, while he, Javert, did no such thing. What did his life consist of? Reading alone in his room – walking the streets at night. Regarding the stars. From the outside he imagined he seemed utterly abstemious and joyless, and he had indeed heard some of his reportees mutter such things when they thought he was out of earshot.

It was only his inner life of fantasy that granted him any depth. He had taken much joy from those compartmentalized trances. Enclosed within the stalwart walls of his own mind, any manner of scenarios could transpire. From the basest – himself on a lead like a dog, Valjean’s rough feet resting on his back as he sat by the fireside – to the purest… but those pure fantasies were much harder to imagine without weeping in shame.

He occasionally let himself imagine that Valjean would come visit him while he convalesced, but he knew, in his heart, that he must go to Valjean. Returning to the bridge to pull Javert from the river would be the only time in their dance that their roles were reversed.

 

–––

 

Javert left the hospital and let many months pass. The leaves withered and fell, the sky grew white like one enormous cloud, and it began to snow. He walked in the snow, day and night, but did not go to the Rue de l'Homme Armé.

He learned offhand of the engagement between Marius Pontmercy and Cosette Fauchelevent. Hearing the names brought him a jolt of recognition – the young man Valjean had carried, that was indeed Marius; he had glimpsed the boy’s face as Valjean passed him, but he had not recognized him then. So Cosette was Valjean’s daughter, and they were to be happily united.

On the day of the wedding Javert let his wanderings steer him near the chapel. He did not go in. He sat on a bench in a park across the way and listened to the bells. The bride and groom emerged in a flurry of petals and cheers. Javert did not see Valjean in the party. Marius and Cosette were so very young – and both radiantly beautiful, beaming with joy, a spot of clear warmth in the cold winter morning. They had their whole lives to share together.

The sight began to bring Javert some pain and he looked away, noticing, as he did so, an elderly gentleman, with white hair, standing on the far corner of the park, watching the procession from a distance. It did not seem like it should be Valjean, but it certainly was. And it did not look as if he had noticed Javert.

Javert allowed himself a few moments’ contemplation of this proud father who had raised a wretched child in God’s light, and had lived to see her wed to a kind and noble young man. Then he stood and left without making his presence known.

 

–––

 

It was springtime when Javert woke one morning and decided, at last, to go to the Rue de l'Homme Armé.

He dressed simply in civilian clothes and started out. The walk took the better part of an hour. He could not allow himself to rush. He wanted to see Valjean, indeed, he had thought of nothing else, but try as he might he could not think of what to expect, and that slowed his step. It was possible this would be the last time. Every time felt like the last time. At least Javert had let go of the insane compulsion to arrest him.

The rue was quiet, and number five, when he arrived there, was utterly empty; there was not even furniture.

Javert was sitting on the cobblestones outside, his head swimming, when a woman’s voice broke the silence. He glanced around but could not find from whence it issued. She spoke again and he looked up – across the street, on the third floor, a ruddy face with tawny ringlets jutted from a window.

“Monsieur, are you an inspector?” she hollered.

“I am a retired inspector,” Javert replied.

Her mouth flattened at these words, but after a moment’s consideration, she went on. “Have you a rosary?”

Javert’s heart skipped a beat. He nodded slowly.

“I am to see it,” the woman said, gesturing explicatively.

Javert reached inside his coat and pulled Madeleine’s rosary from where it always rested in a pocket by his heart. He held it up and let it dangle in the morning light.

The woman squinted. “Black glass – indeed. Well, monsieur, I am to tell you that the gentleman who lived at number five has relocated.” She gave an address in the country a few hours away by carriage.

“I thank you, mademoiselle,” said Javert, and bowed deep, and made for where he knew a coach could be hired.

–

It was an hour before sunset when Javert’s gentle strides brought him to an isolated farmhouse down a broad country road. He had seen it from afar. The hills were rolling and there were many patches of thick forest in the middle distance, but this road and its environs were clear, and fields lay on all sides. Some scattered laborers bent in distant furrows. The clouds were as huge as mountains and lent them a peaceful shade.

Javert had seen the house from a distance on account of the towering cypresses that lined one side. As he drew nearer he could make out further details. Flowers in the front, a garden to one side, three stories and a cellar, an orange cat curled under a tangle of raspberry bushes.

Valjean was in the garden, tending to the plants. He wore no gloves, his bare hands were in the dirt. Javert walked near to him, but not too near, about the length from which he had seen him beaten in Toulon on that long-ago night, and stopped.

Valjean glanced up at him and smiled but did not turn away from the gourds to which he was tending. “Javert,” he said, “I see you have found me.”

Javert said nothing.

“Did you have something,” Valjean continued, wiping his brow, “you wished to say to me?”

How it moved Javert to see those strong hands so delicately holding the stalk of a plant.

Javert spoke. “I do love you,” he said, all force and power gone from his voice. “I have long loved you.” He paused. Valjean had paused as well and was looking at him.

“You are a good man,” Javert continued, “you are, to me, a saint, and it is the profound shame of my life that I have ever caused you pain and degradation, that I have ever impeded you.”

Javert could not read Valjean’s expression, and went on, determined to bare all.

“I have thought of us together in so many configurations,” he said, bowing his head. “When I was young I wished to dominate you. Now I envision myself as your obedient dog. No amount of abuse you could level against me will ever erase the mortification I feel at having done you ill. I imagine myself at your feet. I know I can never deserve forgiveness –”

“I forgive you,” Valjean interrupted.

The interruption did consternate Javert, who had not considered this as a possibility, and was now at quite a loss.

Valjean rose. “God has shown me infinite forgiveness,” he said, “and the idyllic life you see before you is my reward, a promise of future bliss in heaven eternally.”

Javert could not deny that Valjean was bound for heaven, and yet he said: “I have not believed in heaven as of late, nor God.”

A look of marked concern passed over Valjean’s face. “Indeed? Yet you carry my rosary, I wager.”

Javert withdrew it as answer, held it a moment, and returned it to its home, the beads clinking softly.

“But you do not carry it as a reminder of God’s grace?” Valjean inquired.

“It is a reminder of your grace,” Javert said. “God has been absent from my life – it is as if my prayers fall on deaf ears. Though perhaps he shuns me alone. It would not surprise me, given the hypocritical and delusional way I have lived my life.”

A smile crept slowly back onto Valjean’s face. “I am sorry you have not felt the warmth of his grace of late. I can assure you it exists, and flows freely to those who open themselves. Indeed, if you would permit me, I can demonstrate?”

Javert, who held no more inhibitions in his body, said nothing, but looked to Valjean with a silent plea.

Valjean stood and stepped to the side, and dipped his hands in a bucket of spring water nearby, rubbing them until they were clean. The surface of the water, thus disturbed, threw diamonds in the air, as the sun was low and casting a brilliant light. Valjean stepped to Javert, bringing with him the scent of earth and sweat. He did not hesitate, but cupped Javert’s face in his damp hands and kissed him.

Each man knew the other’s mouth from having felt it on his cock, but their lips had never met. Javert took in the new taste, and his head felt heavy against Valjean’s palm. His knees weakened and Valjean’s other arm hooked around his waist to steady him. Now they were pressed together, chests rising and falling. Javert let his trembling hands go to Valjean’s body, and felt the solidity of his form pressing through his clothes.

They withdrew simultaneously for a breath. Javert leaned in again. Valjean kissed him briefly with exhilaration, then gently pulled away, wishing to speak.

“I love you as well,” said Valjean, “and I thank you for coming. I was not sure you would. I know you have been trapped in a web of your own design. I had no wish to forcibly free you from it, and, at any rate, I would not have been able to – only you have that power, and now you have exercised it. To take pleasure from you, when you were unable to admit the true nature of your desire, gave me much pain. Now, if you freely admit your feelings before God, then your reward shall be the free and unrestrained expression of my own desire for you.”

“I love you – I love you,” Javert stammered breathlessly, and moved in for another kiss. This one began as a hurried scuffle but slowed into a steady flow, as each alternated tender pushes of the tongue into the other’s mouth.

Now Javert withdrew. “Take me,” he said, “do whatever you wish with me. Make me your dog. I am yours, utterly.”

Valjean laughed, a deep and pleasant sound, and Javert felt a twinge of anxiety, but it was banished when Valjean caressed his face and kissed his forehead.

“We will do what we both wish,” Valjean said, and in one effortless movement he lifted Javert and swung him over his shoulder, and made for the house.

–

Javert only perceived some random blurs of furniture and textiles as Valjean strode inside with heavy footfalls, then brought him up a wide staircase and through an open door into a high-roofed bedroom, with bare wood floors, white plaster walls, and a heavenly wide bed with an iron frame.

 Valjean gently deposited him, standing upright, at the foot of the bed, with his back to it. Javert swayed backwards and clutched at the footboard, suddenly dizzied by the return of gravity after having been so effortlessly ferried as if he weighed no more than a stalk of straw.

As he stood there, legs trembling, Valjean knelt and unbuckled his boots, then pulled them off, casting them aside without ceremony, his attention consumed by the task at hand: the slow and deliberate unveiling of Javert's body, which he attended to with piercing curiosity. He rose and summarily removed Javert's coat, then opened his shirt, taking in the details of his chest – the black hair, which spread from his collarbone to his belly and beyond, but was not particularly thick; the gentle definition of muscle; his nipples, dark and tender.

Haltingly Valjean extended a finger to stroke a rib – Javert's chest heaved with a shudder, and Valjean pulled his hand away with a contrite smirk, as if chastising himself for partaking before his task was complete. He knelt again and undid Javert's trousers, bowed his head and removed them before he could be distracted by what he had exposed – then paused, looked up ever so slightly, and for the third time in his life let himself be swept up in a reverie of appreciation for Javert's cock, while Javert, looking down, contemplated Valjean's gentle dark gaze, and the feel of Valjean's warm breath on his skin.

Javert's cock had stiffened and softened much since they kissed in the garden, alternating excitement and terror, affection and shame, but now, with Valjean's eyes on it, it grew boldly, remembering their rendezvous of the previous year, and of twenty-five years ago.

Javert's heart raced at the anticipation of Valjean's tongue, but it did not come then. With another contrite smirk Valjean rose to his feet and looked down at Javert, whose grip tightened on the footboard as a wave of vulnerability threatened to unsteady him. Completely exposed as he was before Valjean's broad form, he again felt a tremor of insecurity, but Valjean's firm words – "Onto the bed, if you please –" soothed him with comfort and stoked his excitement.

He met Valjean's gaze with a look of trusting surrender, then turned and climbed onto the bed, his face flushing as he momentarily showed Valjean his backside. Then he turned and reclined on his back onto the mound of pillows at the head of the bed. His legs gently splayed, his arms passive at his sides, he met Valjean's gaze again, and the look of warm awe he saw on Valjean's face served to fully harden his cock, which was prodding his own belly impatiently.

Nor was Valjean unaffected, for when Javert broke eye contact he saw a heavy bulge partially obscured by the bars of the footboard. With another bashful smirk Valjean glanced down to acknowledge it, then gave a slight bow as if to credit Javert.

With Javert's eyes upon him, Valjean unbuttoned his own coat and vest, loosened his cravat, and began to remove his shirt. Javert's eyes widened and his breath quickened as the brand of the bagne came into view, faded but unmistakable, cruelly puckering Valjean's skin, and one by one numerous scars emerged as well, a wretched constellation incongruous with the gentle lined face of this paternal old man. When Valjean turned momentarily to toss away his shirt Javert repressed a gasp at the lines on his back left by the lash.

Each article of clothing removed from Javert's body had made him feel more vulnerable and helpless, but as Valjean stripped he seemed to grow more powerful, leaving behind the image of an aged domestic gentleman and revealing instead a man battered by the world, yet defiant and resilient. He wore his scars like the robes of those pledged to God, with quiet dignity. And when his trousers fell to the ground and Javert saw Madeleine's great cock unfurl, finally the whole man was resolved in one image, naked before him. Not a beast of a convict nor a saintly mayor, but just a man, though Javert could not say he was the same as any other man, no, certainly not in his eyes.

"Would you be so kind as to do me a favor?"

Javert started, shook from his trance, and tore his eyes from Valjean's swollen cock. Valjean was smiling patiently, radiantly. Moments passed before Javert realized with a second start that he had not yet answered Valjean's question.

"Of course," he said, breathless, pausing as various lurid possibilities flooded his mind, and as he found them all desirable, he added: "Anything you want, anything at all."

Valjean gave a slight nod of satisfaction and placed his hands on the footboard, and lifted one strong leg up, then the other, as he climbed over the footboard and crawled onto the bed, placing each hand softly before the other like a prowling cat. He paused when he had his hands on the sheets on either side of Javert's chest, and murmured, "It's not an easy thing I ask of you. Indeed it may seem very selfish. But I have my reasons for asking, and as I've thought of this moment often these many years, I hope you will trust in my judgment until my reasoning becomes clear."

Cautiously, with a small yet pernicious renewed insecurity gnawing at him, Javert replied, "You granted me your reward for my confession – that you will take me without doubting my true affection for you. Do not doubt now that I am yours to use, and that my heart's greatest wish is to lie here open to you in every way."

Valjean's placid smile shone. "I ask you to open but also to close. What I desire is –" his eyes flickered down to Javert's cock, "– that you wait for me... do not spend, that is, preserve this –" he shifted his weight as he lifted one hand and, gently as a feather, caressed the side of Javert's shaft, causing his cock to spasm, "– preserve yourself until I give you permission. Will you do this for me? Permit me this caprice, Javert, I have dreamed of this, and I think you'll find my intended scenario a just one."

At the sound of his own name Javert felt lightheaded, blood rushing to his cheeks and groin. He could say nothing, but gave a firm nod, even as his mind raced and his cock twitched – he made the promise to refrain without a second thought, but, in practice, he was not wholly confident in his ability to keep his word.

With a grin of deep satisfaction, Valjean leaned forward and gently kissed his lips, but as if tearing himself from the brink he quickly lowered his head to Javert's chest and gave him a sweet, wet kiss on his sternum. Refusing to linger he continued down, nuzzling the thicker hair below his belly, planting a quick chaste kiss on the underside of the head of his cock, caressing Javert's balls with his tongue (eliciting a guttural moan), until finally, settling comfortably with his head between Javert's legs, he tucked his strong hands under Javert's backside and gave his pelvis a gentle tilt as he began to lick his asshole.

Javert sucked in his breath and shut his eyes. The darkness behind his lids was no less sensual than the warm golden sunset light of the bedroom, so he opened his eyes again and tried to gain mastery of his thoughts.

His most pressing need was to make good on his promise to not spill. Breaking an oath in less than a minute would be shameful indeed, and yet the sensation of Valjean's tongue there was so arousing it verged on terrifying. No sooner did he calm his thundering arousal than he became aware that the sheet beneath him was bunched in both fists and he was panting like an animal. Desperately he tried to still his breathing. His cock throbbed painfully.

He glanced down and immediately had to shut his eyes against the sight of Valjean burying his face there, looking as blissful as if he were in prayer. Now and then Valjean would let slip a groan muffled by Javert's body, and Javert could feel the hum reverberating inside him, for Valjean, after warming the edge of his hole with supplicating licks, had begun to prod his tongue inside. Javert did not bother suppressing his grunts of tortured pleasure. Just as he was wrestling another wave of panic at the imminent prospect of losing control, Valjean came up for air, smiling broadly as he panted. Javert trembled as he looked down. 

Valjean was gazing warmly at Javert's cock again, as if satisfied to see his hardness intact, though the tip of his cock was slick with moisture. Valjean's face was wet too, with his own spit – his white beard glistened in the red sunset light.

Valjean's gaze flickered up to meet Javert's. "You've done well... you please me," he breathed, and as he spoke he shifted up a bit and moved a hand between Javert's legs. "I confess I so enjoyed myself down there that I forgot my intention to check on your resolve." Javert felt one thick yet gentle finger press the passage Valjean had tempered with his tongue. "Do you feel capable of holding on? For me?"

Javert opened his mouth to speak just as Valjean's finger slid gently in, and he found himself choking on a babble of meaningless words. "I... you have... I'm..." Javert brought a hand to his own forehead – he was soaked in sweat, and the intensity of his arousal pierced him like a sunbeam. "I'll do as you wish," he finally managed to stammer, and taking it as encouragement Valjean slid in a second finger, while with his other hand he caressed the hair on Javert's right thigh.

Both of Javert's hands were now covering his own face. Every part of his body ached with sensitivity, from the tips of his arching toes to his trembling lips. Valjean's relatively free hand trailed up and down his thigh, then up to his hip, and across the top of his belly, relishing in stroking the hair there; but he did not let his hand so much as graze Javert's cock. With his other hand he plunged deeper into Javert's body.

"How warmly you welcome me," Valjean breathlessly muttered, and Javert felt himself squeeze involuntarily at his words, and could feel each knuckle inside him, massaging him wider. Valjean felt the squeeze and gave a barely audible moan. Through the lattice of his own fingers covering his face, Javert gazed at Valjean, who, now kneeling, revealed his own swollen cock, red and thick, his heavy balls nestled between his thighs, large as a bull's but tight and wreathed in white curls.

Valjean slid in a third finger and Javert's head swum as he realized the full enormity of the task ahead of him – Valjean's tongue, then fingers, paving the way for his cock – the cock which loomed there, impossibly large, and yet Javert was shocked by how Valjean was easing him open so skillfully. He himself, in his moments of self-pleasure, which at the time had seemed so hopelessly debased, had sometimes pushed one of his own slender and elegant fingers in, but even just one had brought him a bitter pain that nonetheless did not curtail his mounting pleasure – envisioning as he always did Valjean's cock pushing into him, he would spend within seconds of the intrusion, holding onto the pleasure like the back of a wild horse for as long as he could before it wilted and turned to foul shame. His inner tumult over what he considered an impure act had made his asshole tight and unrelenting then, but now around Valjean's fingers it parted eagerly even as it squeezed tightly, without pain. Javert shuddered with gratitude that his body did not involuntarily turn away the one he had so often longed to welcome inside.

Forestalling orgasm proved more challenging with Valjean's fingers, for they went deep, and Javert could feel the eagerness in them, reflected in Valjean's gaze as he glanced between his handiwork and the effects of it on Javert's face. Javert was struggling to slow his breathing – all over him his hair was matted with sweat, and his legs twitched as if he was clenching his thighs on an invisible saddle. Every time he fleetingly gained mastery of himself, he was immediately struck by a presentiment of Valjean's cock to follow, which tossed him anew into a desperate struggle to calm down.

Valjean, too, seemed in the throes of a struggle, for he kept nearly withdrawing, then would pause and sink deep again, as if recalling the great girth Javert would need to accommodate. But at last, with a look on his face reflecting pride in a job well done, he did withdraw his fingers, and settled back for a moment, with his hands on his thighs, framing his quivering erection.

A still, charged moment passed, and they locked eyes. Valjean smiled still, but weakly, and his eyes glittered, as if a dark beast was wresting control of him. Then he again placed his hands on the bed on either side of Javert's heaving chest, and dipped his head down, and kissed Javert's forehead where the long stray hairs were smeared in sweat. In one smooth movement Valjean reached out to the side table and plucked up a tiny tinted bottle. Returning to a kneel, he uncorked the bottle and poured a little stream of oil directly onto the head of his own cock. Setting the bottle aside, he took his cock in a calloused hand and stroked up and down, spreading the gleaming oil all over, his eyes closed, releasing a soft and pained exhale.

Javert watched, transfixed. From Valjean's measured and practiced strokes Javert knew that he must often use this oil to pleasure himself. The self-pleasure was hypnotic to watch, the way he slid his thumb over the head of his cock and then moved his hand down to squeeze the base, but the strokes slowed to a stop, and Valjean opened his eyes, his smile gone, replaced by a look of utter hunger.

He leaned forward, his dripping cock standing strong. Roughly he grabbed Javert's thighs and pushed them up. Javert gasped. "You... you don't intend to take me like a dog?"

"I'll take you however I please," growled Valjean, and propping Javert's legs against his strong chest, he aimed his cock at Javert's throbbing hole and pushed in. That hole that had been so yielding embraced the head of his cock and squeezed tight. Both men groaned, Valjean low, Javert with a panicked yelp. The rest of Valjean's cock did not enter as readily, but gradually he eased it, rocking his hips back and forth, moving ever deeper. Javert's eyes rolled back. His entire body shook – he felt every millimeter stretching him wider, and the heat radiated from within him. Valjean's cock went as deep as his fingers had, and pressed ever further.

Javert felt he dare not look at Valjean's face, but it was no use holding back – Valjean towered over him, demanding obeisance, and his face was that of an angel, morphing between sweetness and agony. The white curls at his brow stuck to his wet forehead. His breath escaped ragged from his parted lips. His eyelids fluttered and he gave a final prolonged groan as he pushed the last centimeter in, and then they were flush together, Valjean's cock buried deep within him, filling him, and Javert did not even comprehend how he was managing to hold on.

Valjean held that position and inhaled deeply. "How I could torment you," he murmured, eyes closed, "How I could make you scream..." he opened his eyes then and stared down at Javert, splayed, cleaved open, on the precipice of release and holding on for dear life. "I daresay I could even force you to break your promise... but I must confess, my friend," Valjean said after a pause, "I am no stronger than you in this regard; I am on the verge myself, and if I attempted to push you over the edge I am sure I would tumble over first instead. So I will be quick, if you'll forgive me, and thereby keep you an honest man."

As he spoke these last words his hips began to tilt and push slightly, and he shifted his grip on Javert's thighs. With small movements he drew himself in and out ever so slightly, probing Javert's depths, soaking up the warmth and enjoying the gentle yet focused sensations. Javert could say nothing, but watched him. The confession of Valjean's lack of control had given Javert the presence of mind to slow his own breathing and indulge in the pleasure without slipping beneath the surface of it.

Languidly Valjean fucked him, with the occasional little thrust; he did not withdraw to give him a deep pound, but instead seemed to be swimming in him tenderly, and though the movements were slight Javert could see that Valjean was heavily affected – his teeth clenched, the sinews of his neck stood out, and his eyes drifted like those of a drunkard. Valjean leaned forward with his shoulders pressing Javert's knees back, he pushed deep and his lips met Javert's in a flurry of messy, ravenous kisses.

Valjean groaned, it seemed as if his entire body was gathering like a storm cloud, and suddenly he raised his head and roared a yell of pleasure towards heaven, thrusting urgently as he did, gasping, tears shining in his eyes – Javert desperately willed himself to hold on as he observed the spectacle, feeling heat welling up deep within him, knowing it came from within Valjean.

Much like a rainstorm petering out, Valjean eventually slowed his thrusts and collapsed in a sweaty heap on top of Javert, his cheek coming to rest on Javert's left shoulder, his hips still slightly twitching. Javert swallowed and gasped hoarsely. Feeling the whole heady length of Valjean's body pressing down on him, including Valjean's warm belly on Javert's cock, was enough to make him shudder. He turned his head and buried his face in Valjean's curls, overwhelmed by emotion. Valjean panted slowly and quietly, and tenderly eased his softening cock out of Javert's ass, which had been well drenched by his seed.

Valjean reluctantly pulled himself upright again, looking as spent as if he had done a hard day's manual labor. That knowing smile returned to grace his sweaty face. "Well," he said, looking down at Javert, "You held on, I see, and I thank you for it… perhaps my ministrations are not as compelling as I'd thought, and my request was not as taxing as I'd feared?"

"You," Javert sputtered, reddening, "Of all the – you don't – you have no idea –"

"A tease, Javert, forgive me," laughed Valjean, tousling his own sweaty locks. Then he looked somber, moved. "I do thank you. You've given me a great gift, one I'll delight in now." He gazed warmly down at Javert's cock, which was red and intensely engorged. "For if we are to be together, as I've longed wished, then it will be as equals."

Valjean reached to where the tinted bottle lay at the corner of the bed. Uncorking it once more, he grasped Javert's cock at the base. Javert shivered, noting that Valjean had not yet given his permission for release. A stream of oil drizzled over his length, and when the bottle was discarded Valjean attended to him with both hands, sliding his fingers up and down in a languid massage.

Javert was wondering dizzily if Valjean was going to force him to beg for leave to spill when Valjean suddenly shifted, climbing forward again, but this time he straddled Javert's thighs, bringing his own softened cock to rest against Javert's tight balls.

Javert's eyes widened as he suddenly realized what was to transpire. "Valjean," he stammered, and then, with a gulp of breath, "Jean – you wouldn't –"

"You don't wish it?"

"It's not that I… that is… I never…" Javert's breath quickened. "In all… the years I dreamed… dreamed of you, I didn't… I would never… that is, there is a hierarchy… I belong to you! I would not dare to… to subvert that."

Valjean gave a gentle shrug. His smile was sleepy and beatific. "There is no subversion here. We are equals," he said. "We are one before God. I have no wish to own you, yet I would gladly share my life with you – would you enter into such a partnership with me?"

Javert, as answer, clasped Valjean's left hand with his right, his lips trembling, and then, with mounting passion, pulled Valjean closer and steadied his own cock with his free hand, so that Valjean, with the same blissful smile, descended onto him, and with some effort (but less than Javert had required) took Javert's cock up to the hilt.

Javert's whole body shook. Valjean exhaled. "I had to ask that favor of you, and take you first," he said, a dreamy look in his eyes, "Because I knew I could not bear this myself without spilling, and then I would not be able to take you – and what a pity that would have been –" he let his hips rise and fall in a slow rhythm. "I release you from your promise, Javert," he murmured softly, quickening his pace, "You have my permission to share in that exquisite pleasure I still feel even now –"

But Javert's hands shot out and grabbed Valjean's hips, stilling him. "No," Javert panted, "No, please…"

Valjean's eyebrows rose. "Are you in pain?"

"No," Javert replied, and entirely against his will tears sprung up and rolled down his cheeks. Valjean did not move his hips, but extended a hand and stroked Javert's jaw.

"I would have this last," Javert whispered, on the verge of a sob. "If I may tomorrow find you gone… if you run… if you run away again, and leave me, then…" 

A knowing gaze washed over Valjean's face, and he shook his head emphatically. "I will not run," he said, "This is the first of many times with us, Javert, as many as you wish; you need not hold back, I will be here for you whenever you want me."

Javert exhaled, blinking away tears. "Then," he said, pushing Valjean's hips down, "Then, for God's sake, please, I beg of you…"

Valjean rode him hard, and Javert became aware that he was suddenly falling without having even felt the edge approach, seed was spilling from him with tremendous force, pulsing deep within Valjean, where it was warm and tight and as soft as velvet. He was screaming without having willed it. Valjean looked down at him with breathless pleasure, proud and touched.

In the haze after, his limbs tingling, Javert felt Valjean delicately climb off of him, then lie down next to him, then sweep him into a strong embrace. Javert could only whimper. The twilight was fading. The only sound was their breaths, heavy and gentle.

"This is our bed," Valjean said, "We have consummated our union. This is our house. We will live here as we please. I will be here when you awake, and ever after."

Both fell into a thick sleep as night came, and though Javert drifted in and out of slumber throughout the night, Valjean's strong arms around him eased his fears before they even had a chance to rear up – he would open his eyes enough to reassure himself of Valjean's steady profile in the moonlight, and then, closing his eyes with gratitude, and basking in Valjean's scent, he would drift off to sleep again.