Title: calm eyes, stern and pure
Work ID: 50700880
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Hurt/Comfort
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


Javert is good at hiding behind a mask of indifference. All his life, he’s been taught to ignore the existence of pain in his tired body, lest he appear vulnerable. He believes acknowledging the existence of discomfort brings forth emotions that will only distract him from his duty, and it is no different with physical ailments. There is nothing worse than feeling like that boy inside a jail, begging for help amidst men turned monsters, feeling useless and weak. Javert clenched his fists. Better to ignore it altogether.


 


But the problem is that Javert is not alone now. He can feel his gaze as Javert straightens his back and ignores the smarting pain on his bad knee. Jean Valjean is staring at him curiously from the armchair in their shared home. The law has abandoned him, but this man has not. In this strange new reality after the incident, Javert finds it harder to hide behind the wall he’s built since he was but a child. He’s not used to someone looking at him so critically, typically he is the one doing such a thing not the other way around. 


 


Valjean has not stopped staring. Javert felt himself sweat. He dropped his book and went to leave the room just to avoid the man’s gaze when Valjean spoke.


 


“Are you alright, Javert?”


 


Javert turned to look at Valjean and said, “Yes. Why would I not be?”


 


Valjean still stared at him and Javert stared back as if in a challenge, making sure his eyes were calm, his tone stern. Minutes passed and Javert could feel the pain in his leg increase in pressure. Still, his face remained emotionless as he distracts himself with his nails digging into his hands. 


 


Somehow, Valjean notices that. “Javert, come sit down, please.”


 


“I was planning on going upstairs,” Javert said stubbornly.


 


“You are in pain.”


 


“I am not.”


 


Valjean sighed and stood up. He took the younger man’s hand and pulled him to the sofa. Javert may be stubborn but he knew his limits, and it was pointless to fight Valjean’s strength in this instance, especially with a bad knee. So, he sat unnaturally close to Valjean without complaint.


 


The older man was looking at him with such concern and, Javert observed, even a hint of amusement. A hand went to rest on his aching right knee, and Javert repressed a jolt. 


 


“Is your knee bothering you?” Valjean asked.


 


Javert remained silent. He finds he could not lie now. He isn’t used to this kind of concern, genuine and caring, not even with his own mother. Most people would leave him alone by the time he barks out an answer. But, of course, Valjean doesn’t leave him alone. Of course, the saint will pester him to tell the truth, knowing the Inspector can’t lie for long.


 


“Did you take the medicine for the pain?”


 


The dreaded question. “I don’t need them.”


 


“Javert—“


 


“I am not weak, Valjean,” Javert said, unable to hide the anger in his voice. “I can handle a little pain.”


 


Immediately, the amusement in Valjean’s eyes died. Javert felt his hands shake. It was barely noticeable, a slight tremor, but Valjean suddenly covered it with his own.


 


“I never called you weak,” Valjean said softly. “I merely do not want my friend to suffer when he doesn’t need to.”


 


“I am far from suffering.”


 


Valjean sighed, exasperated. “I do not understand, Javert. You didn’t take your pain medication the entire week I was gone, and don’t you deny it!”


 


Javert can feel his eye twitch. This was not going to plan. He just wants to escape the questioning, but Valjean was still holding  his fist.


 


The most dreaded question. “Why didn’t you take the medicine, Javert?”


 


“Medicine is expensive. I can’t pay you back.” It was not entirely a lie, he thinks.


 


“I don’t need you to. You know I will never ask for payment. What really is the reason?”


 


Javert put his head in his hands. He can’t look at Valjean. He doesn’t know what to say, so he opted for the truth.


 


“Because it makes me feel… weak.”


 


Valjean smiled hesitantly. “But doesn’t pain make you more weak?”


 


“You don’t understand, Valjean,” he snarled. “It’s not just about what is physically there. The mere act of taking medication for a little pain is already an act of indulgence I can not afford. I will not let the pain control me. I am not that weak. I’m no child that needs to be coddled for every discomfort. I have sustained far worse without help, and I won’t need it now.”


 


At the end of his agitated speech, Javert felt tired and ashamed. Valjean has provided him with so much comfort and healing, and yet this is how he reacts, callous and cruel, unable to let go of past habits. 


 


Valjean only looked at him sadly, brows furrowed in worry. “There is no shame in needing help, Javert.”


 


Javert snorted. “As if you are any different.”


 


Valjean flushed. “Yes, that may be true. But that is why we have each other now. If you would not help yourself, then I will.”


 


With that the older man stood up and went to the kitchen. He came back with a bottle of pills on hand. Javert resisted the urge to flee. 


 


Valjean handed him his mug full of water and gave him a pill. Those soft eyes seem to bore into his soul, pleading and hoping.


 


“Please, Javert, I do not want to see you in pain.”


 


Javert took the pills and swallowed it in less than a second. Anything to stop Valjean from staring at him like that.


 


“There, that wasn’t so bad was it,” the older man said gently.


 


Javert grumbled his protest, but Valjean didn’t seem to mind, instead pressing a light kiss on the stubborn Inspector’s forehead. 
