Title: First Mate Javert
Work ID: 41823564
Author: orphan_account
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables)
Additional Tags: Unresolved Sexual Tension, Resolved Sexual Tension, Alternate Universe - Pirate, Romani Javert, Javert is a strict first mate, Valjean just wants to be nice, tension ensues, Anal Sex, Anal Fingering, Javert has low self esteem, kind of
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Javert run a tight ship. He would not entertain slacking or backtalk, and as the first mate to captain Chabouillet he endeavoured to only ever please his captain. It proved satisfying to be under the command of monsieur Chabouillet, being strict with the crew of his ship and planning their next route, until they were made to collaborate with Captain Valjean of La Madeleine in regards to a scuffle with pirates near the island of Montreuil-sur-mer. As infuriating as Valjean himself was, it was not only the insufferable captain that gave Javert issues. Not only did he and monsieur Chabouillet need to leave behind their ship and temporarily sail on La Madeleine, his crew just had to be insubordinate and unruly. The crew themselves didn't even identify themselves as the crew of La Madeleine, they called themselves Les amis. All in all, Javert severely disliked having to submit to this, but he would overcome it in the name of bringing the pirates into custody.

Valjean, himself, and monsieur Chabouillet spend the hours prior in the captain's cabin charting a course, but as exhausted as Javert was he still had to work. It was necessary to make sure the ship would not run itself to ruin. In any other situation he would have let the chaos take place, but in the circumstance of him and monsieur Chabouillet being on board, he really had no choice. 

"Monsieur Grantaire! What do you think you are doing? get back to work." The boy in question seemed to be attempting to flirt drunkenly with some blonde boy who was attempting to work, but he just looked back to Javert and grumbled, slowly moving back to his station. Such insubordination would've had Javert lashed in his position, but Javert simply turned to adjust the rigging in the absence of someone to correct.

"Javert." Javert looked down from where he was fixing the ,honestly appalling, rigging to see Valjean staring up at him disapprovingly. 

"Valjean." 

Valjean seemed to frown at that, continuing on anyways.

"Would it hurt you to be kinder to my crew, first mate Javert?"

Javert huffed in annoyance, "If you wish to have your ship run to ruin due to an insubordinate and unruly crew Valjean, by all means do it. But I will not allow your crew's failings to impact upon me or monsieur Chabouillet, however temporary our placement here is."

the captain's frown deepened at his retort, the man seeming annoyed at Javert's undermining. Javert finished up the rigging anyways and climbed back down to the deck. Valjean was still there waiting for him.

"Javert. As much as I appreciate your concern for the ship, I assure you my crew are perfectly capable of managing themselves." Javert gave him an incredulous look, but did not dispute him verbally. "Another thing, as long as you reside on La Madeleine, I am im charge of you. I would appreciate less insubordination from you monsieur Javert, as it is important to keep the ship functional and respectful." Javert sneered at the man but still said nothing, the passive agressive smile he was receiving not doing much to temper that agression. He bristled at the suggestion of insubordination, and stalked off after Valjean had finished speaking.

It would not be truthful to say that Javert had been seething all day, but his temper would have been easier to cross. And his temper was crossed, many times. But as he had an order (Javert would not and could not disobey orders), Javert could not effectively discipline Valjean's crew apart from simply telling them to focus on a task.

Even that seemed to displease Valjean, as he approached Javert about it in the mess hall at dinner, Javert had even given the suggestion of enjoying his food next to monsieur Chabouillet, before Valjean had appeared of course. Javert was simply eating next to his superior when Valjean came up behind him and leaned over his shoulder, the proximity was irritating and unbearable, seemingly to talk about his conduct with the crew that day.

"Javert, I wish to speak to you privately. Come with me, please." Javert looked to Chabouillet as if to protest, but the older man only nodded in permission before Javert sighed inwardly and followed behind the shorter man. Javert's already tall height paired with his ramrod straight posture was by design imposing and intimidating, but the sturdy man infront of him never seemed intimidated or scared, only exasperated. Javert had obeyed the man's orders, but of course Valjean's attitude towards the crew coincided with Javert's view of being lax. It was frustrating, but to be expected. It was to Javert's surprise then that he had been lead back into the captain's cabin, not perhaps the main deck or his own small cabin. 

"Valjean. If you take issue with how I address your crew, I am not sure of what you expect from me. I only strive to maintain order on your ship but if you do not allow me to discipli--" he was quickly cut off by Valjean's hand on his shoulder, and the captain was speaking.

"Javert. I understand that your and my styles of leadership are contrary, and I respect that you have attempted to be kinder to my crew, but I want no animosity between us. If you have a personal gripe with me, I wish you to address it in order to not impede upon our work with chabouillet."

Javert glowered, where to start on his 'personal gripes'? There were many. Not only did Valjean have no control over his young crew, he had no respect for propriety or authority (two things which Javert held dear). Javert could think of a few dozen 'gripes' with Valjean, but he settled for simply denying he had any issues with the man at all.

"You and I both know that you are unhappy with the way I handle things. Do you expect me to believe that none of it is personal?"

"I do not appreciate being talked down to, Valjean. You and I both know that I dislike the way you lead. It supports a criminal mindset and breeds insubordination and insolence. You are infuriating. Your crew is lax and your ship cannot live off of 'kindness and love' alone. I apologise that my not wanting to go down with your ship upsets you, Captain." there was contempt in place of his usual respect, but even though Valjean saw this, he did not comment on it. They were standing close now, practically on top of eachother. Neither of them moved away though.

"Thank you, Javert. We seem to both have very different mindsets however." 

"Evidently."

There was something, then. There was a change in the air surrounding them, as if it became electric. A spark of something unnamed and heavy in their gazes, making them lean in with something not quite irritated as before.

Then there were hands on Javerts hips, stilled, as if he were to startle and flee at any moment. For the most part he was right, Javert could flee back to the mess hall, forget the perhaps accidental contact, but that change in the air somehow prevented it. That spark in the air made Valjean hold onto his hips more steadily, walk him back and crowd him up against the door of his quarters. Valjean then twisted the lock, sealing any plausible deniability for both of them. Unsurprisingly, it was Valjean who closed the distance first, hungrily connecting their mouths and nipping at Javert's lower lip in a request to enter. Much to Javert's own dismay, he honest to god whined at the insisting bites to his lip. Valjean didn't want to think about how deeply the sound affected him.

His carefully maintained semblance of control quickly became undone after that, Valjean's mouth moving lower onto his neck. And after undoing the leather stock around his collar, Valjean was sucking small marks into his clavicle, the bruises quickly becoming pink against his tanned brown skin. Javert was panting into the air, gasping at Valjean's careful ministrations. Valjean couldn't help but stare at the high flush on his cheeks and his almost pained expression. 

Javert tried to grind out a 'hurry up' to move things along, but with Valjean's hand suddenly pressing onto his half hard prick, he found it rather impossible. What came out instead was a garbled whine, perhaps a plea, and Valjean petted his thigh soothingly.

"shhh, don't worry."

Stumbling on his unsteady feet, Javert followed Valjean to his bed, then he was being thrown down, pressed into the sheets as Valjean furthered his exploration into Javert's body. With his shirt off and figure open to scrutiny, Javert suddenly felt conscious of his body. He had never before thought about his physique past his health, staying fit was important for duels after all, but the idea of someone desiring him always seemed far away and unreal. He assumed that his lithe figure and lean muscles would prove attractive to some, but he had no experience of that or expectations of perfection outside his duty. Javert heard a short and sharp intake of breath and steeled himself for scorn.

"Gods Javert you're beautiful." 

He huffed a laugh at that. Though Javert had a thinner waist, his shoulders were broad and he had not the supple curves of a woman. His face was sharp and angular, his brow was severe, and his legs were long and lean. He lacked womanly qualities some men wanted, and did not fit the criteria of a thickly muscled man such as Valjean. It was frankly ridiculous that he felt the need to lie, but Javert wouldn't push it.

Valjean on the other hand, was overcome. Javert spread out was not something he'd had opportunities or the want to think about, but him lying there under Valjean's gaze stole his breath away. He was in no sense womanly, far too tall and angled for that, but Valjean couldn't help but think of his legs around Valjean's waist, or those large hands raking down Valjean's back. Snapped out of his reverie by Javert's incredulous huff, he got back to work in reducing the first mate's mind to mush.

Javert felt his hair being freed from it's ribbon, hummed as his thick black hair was fanned out on the pillow. Javert only ever seemed to have patience when absolutely needed, fastidious in his duty as always, but here in the captain's cabin he didn't need or want to be patient. So Javert got to work on undoing his pants and taking off his boots, getting completely naked apart from his stockings. At this point Javert's seemed to see Valjean's own state of dress, mussed as it was, and quickly set to fixing that problem. when they were both undressed, Javert scrabbled around to look for any lubricant, needing some sort of contact. Valjean seemed to take the hint, thanks be to God, fishing out a small vial of oil from God knows where.

Unbearably slowly, Valjean lowered Javert back into the sheets, popping the cap open and slicking his fingers up before pressing one inside of Javert's entrance. It was tight, as it was bound to be, but easy enough to add another and stretch further. Javert pushed back onto the intrusion, needing more, but Valjean just tutted and scissored his fingers to prepare him. 

After the third finger, Javert was on the brink of begging Valjean to just get in him, or for God's sake he is leaving and going back to the mess hall. It was an empty threat, they both knew, but Valjean still slicked up his own erection with the oil and slid inside in one thrust. A small wail exited Javert, nerve endings thrumming with the want and need for the older man to move, but also being overwhelmed at the stretch. Valjean was not by far the largest man he'd ever seen (quite hard to be when you're on a ship and see new men every day in various states of undress), but he was indeed impressive. He could barely think with how full he was, making small sounds until Valjean tentatively pulled out and pushed back in again. A shock of pleasure shot through his body, making Javert cry out once again.

"God Javert you're so tight." The older man cursed and thrust in sharply, wrenching gasps from the both of them. Valjean couldn't stop from thrusting hard and fast, despite Javert having no complaints about the treatment. 

Javert started giving out little gasps with every thrust, his back arching against the mattress and his legs spread wide. He distantly chastised himself for acting like a whore, but he was too far gone in the feeling to care. Valjean was coming undone, too. He was constantly making smug little remarks and praise for how good Javert was being, and the younger man was practically preening for it. He would be embarrassed if he didn't enjoy it so much. Then Valjean hit a spot inside of Javert that made him shudder and whine, his eyes rolling back into his head. His gasping became more fraught then, as Valjean abused the spot and started getting close himself. They were both too far gone to understand what they were saying anymore, little garbles of praise and 'please's traded as they both teetered over the edge into oblivion.

Javert came suddenly with a shout, Valjean's name on his lips. Valjean followed not soon after, fucking him hard and abusing his prostate through both their orgasms. Javert seemed intent to get everything out of Valjean he could, making little gasps of reverence as he tightened around the large intrusion. Eventually, Valjean pulled out and sighed, wiping Javert's mess off of him with a towel he somehow retrieved.

They stayed like that for a while, embraced in the warmth of afterglow and eachother, before getting up to check on the crew. Hopefully they hadn't ran the ship to ruin too quickly.

....

If Grantaire happened to leave the mess hall early and hear a few suspicious noises coming from the captain's cabin, that was really none of his business. Javert needed to loosen up anyhow.