Title: forgotten where it’s buried
Work ID: 51980512
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Stuck in a Wall, Crack, Crack Treated Seriously, Anal Sex, Spit As Lube, Outdoor Sex, let valjean be confident and horny 2k23, Established Relationship, Post-Seine, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables), Humor, Old Married Couple, Kinktober 2023
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Valjean had mentioned that one of the walls out in that wilderness of a garden was crumbling: half of it fallen over already, the other half covered in ivy and bramble thick and dense as curtains. Valjean had postulated that it might have once enclosed a private section of the garden; maybe for someone’s own tending separate that of a gardener, or simply to offer additional seclusion and respite for the party who had the walls built, buried halfway past a haphazard grove of fruit trees and a row of flowerbeds Valjean had recently been attempting to corral into some semblance of order.

It had been an old wall when Valjean purchased the property, the other man had told Javert; and had not given it much thought until its more recent collapse. Both men had debated the merits of whether they should tear the wall down entirely now, or allow for its gradual decay on its own. And then, as they idly argued the topic back-and-forth—more for the sake of their easy, familiar bickering than any real investment in whatever conclusion they eventually reached—Javert had stretched, the long curve of his body pressed up against Valjean sat beside him on the sitting room sofa.

Valjean’s eyes had drifted down Javert’s lanky limbs and arched torso before settling on the familiar line of Javert’s mouth, and then his gaze had flicked upward to meet Javert’s, half-lidded and knowing. After that, they had been rather distracted by other matters for some time, and the subject had been forgotten.

Javert had remembered their conversation a few days later, when Valjean was happily attending to his daily visit to the Gillenormand household to call upon Cosette; expectant with her second child and all the more radiant for it. If Javert thought Valjean a doting father in the early days of their companionship, it was nothing to what the other man was capable of when Cosette was several months pregnant and not-so-secretly pleased to be fussed over—and relieved to have a devoted grandfather on hand when Little Fantine was feeling exceptionally rambunctious and intrepid. As Cosette had divulged quietly to Javert one afternoon while Fantine and her Grandpapa fed ducks in the park, Cosette’s sore feet did not always feel up to the task of meeting Fantine’s specific levels of enthusiasm.

Javert was vaguely curious about the purported ruin buried in the jungle at the depths of the Rue Plumet, and without Valjean at home Javert was left idle after the end of his shift at the office where he clerked four or five days out of the week. There was not anything in particular around the house for him to do as the afternoon stretched before him—Valjean had rehired Toussaint shortly after her departure from the Gillenormands, and although as she grew older Valjean had gradually reduced how many days he called upon her for cooking or for cleaning (while, Javert had snorted fondly and rolled his eyes when he realized, keeping Toussaint’s wages the same as when she worked a full week), she still made her way over two or three times a week for dusting and dinner preparations. Valjean and Javert themselves lived so simply that Toussaint’s efforts were more than enough to keep the floors spotless, the larder full, the linens fresh, and very little in the way of a need for chores on the part of the two gentlemen who had made the house in the Rue Plumet their home.

With his options limited to some solitary card-playing, purloining one of Valjean’s more tolerable philosophical texts from the library, or taking a brief walkabout, Javert seized the idea of going back out-of-doors with both hands. But he did not want to venture far—Valjean usually returned home from his visits with Cosette before dusk, and would likely not be gone for longer than another hour at most. He had just remembered their discussion about the falling wall in the gardens; it would suffice as something to do to pass the time, Javert decided. He straightened his cravat and tugged at his waistcoat, but forwent his hat or coat in light of the fact he had no intention of going beyond the gate of the Rue Plumet.

Before stepping out the back door, Javert dashed off a short note to Valjean on a scrap bit of paper, lest Valjean return sooner than Javert anticipated. Telling the other man he would be examining the garden wall, Javert placed the note atop the book Valjean was currently reading and had abandoned by the sofa the previous evening, easily spotted as soon as Valjean entered the sitting room.

Javert’s typically brisk, steady stride took him quickly over the pale flagstone path that provided the gardens with some approximation of structure, overgrown along the edges though it might be. Javert readily recalled where Valjean mentioned the ruined wall would be, past the flowerbeds and fruit trees, and dawdled only to occasionally pause and inspect some shrub or plant where Javert thought he recognized Valjean’s deft hand and gentle touch.

He would never be well-versed in the greenery that ensconced the house—or the miserable little cottage he had eventually convinced Valjean to abandon. But Javert had enough years of experience in sitting on cracked stone benches and burlap sacks of soil, the sun in his eyes and Valjean’s broad smile turned in Javert’s direction somehow even more dazzling, watching Valjean pull weeds and plant bulbs. Javert hazarded he knew well enough by now what the gardens looked like wherever Valjean chose to tend to them.

After ducking under the low branch of an apple tree and taking a few moments to survey some nearby flowers Valjean had replanted into neat and tidy rows—appreciative more of Valjean’s skill than, perhaps, the flora itself—Javert spied, beyond a row of hedges and the thorny tangle of a wild rosebush, what he thought might be the beginnings of the garden wall. Here it was barely taller than the bushes, and thick with vines both green and long-dead, and Javert assumed this must be the end that was more significantly crumbled and fallen to ruin.

Javert truthfully did not spend much time in this corner of the garden—he preferred to stay within a few paces of the house if possible, and tended to only venture further as demanded by whatever Valjean’s latest gardening project. He supposed he had seen the wall before, bracketing a little square of now-barren soil and a rusting bench. But Javert had not given it much consideration until Valjean noticed the stones that constructed the wall tumbling onto the path, crushing shrubbery, and in one instance flattening one of Valjean’s tomato plants.

Javert thought, as he slowly paced around the perimeter of the wall, that they might need to call an expert to determine how structurally sound it was, of what masonry remained; if the wall posed a danger to anything besides Valjean’s tomatoes. Stonework was an area neither he nor Valjean could claim any expertise in, and although he knew that even with a pardon Valjean was still leery of strangers on the grounds in the Rue Plumet, it would be irresponsible for either of them to ignore the possibility of the wall continuing to disintegrate and seriously hurting someone. And what if Valjean was out working in his flowerbeds when more of the stones collapsed?

Satisfied with the decision that the ultimate fate of the ruined wall ought to be determined by someone with a better understanding of the design and its materials, Javert allowed himself a few more moments to pace around the structure. He studied where the wall stood nearly fully upright; where it had crumbled almost to its foundations; where vines seemed to have worked their way through every crack in the mortar binding smooth grey stones both small and large together in what must have once been an impressive display of craftsmanship.

Javert had no intention of touching the wall. It had collapsed in enough places that he was uncertain what even a slight pressure might do to the parts that remained upright. He had merely noted one segment—still tall and stately but so covered with vegetation that he would have scarcely realized there was anything underneath the plants at all—was quite close to a row of empty plots of earth Javert knew Valjean meant to make his next project.

Leaning forward, Javert scrutinized the thick blanket of foliage clinging to the wall, wondering if he might convince the other man to postpone his plans until they had established the continued durability of this section—when a rabbit hopped past the path, right over the top of Javert’s boots; the rabbit’s abrupt appearance startling several birds in the trees overhead into taking flight.

Muttering in surprise at the sudden burst of activity, Javert reflexively took a half-step back, the heel of his boot catching on the edge where the flagstone path ended and muddy earth began. The unexpected shift in firmament knocked Javert’s balance off-kilter for but a moment, and he raised one hand in an instinctive motion to steady himself.

Javert’s hand passed through the wall of ivy, and he would have thought to next make contact with the craggy grey stone beneath; instead, Javert simply felt air, and then he was tilting sideways.

The entire incident took mere seconds: the rabbit darting across his path, his aborted step backward onto unstable ground, his rather undignified attempt to avoid precisely what had happened anyway; his torso twisting in an attempt to keep himself from completely losing his footing, his hands grasping at vines in an effort to stop his fall.

There was a jumble of green plants and rough stone and a low grating sound coming from immediately behind him, and Javert felt himself scratched and banged and bruised—although what smarted above all else was his dignity. Javert was not an excessively religious man, but he nevertheless sent a prayer of thanks heavenward that no one but a few birds and that wretched rabbit had been present to see that utterly shameful display. That his balance would so fail him, that he would be unable to catch himself from toppling arse over teakettle from a simple stumble… indeed, Javert was so busy scowling at the humiliation of his awkward, somewhat painful tumble against the wall that it was another minute yet before the full force of his predicament began to dawn on him.

Blinking dirt and grit out of his eyes and shaking his head—his queue well and truly ruined, hair long and tousled about his shoulders—Javert could plainly see the empty flowerbeds and corroded bench that lay hidden within the interior of the wall. So; he had fallen through it. He surmised there must have been a gap hidden beneath the vines, and moved to look over his shoulder to ascertain the trajectory of his fall—only.

Javert’s brow furrowed in consternation.

Only, it was—a bit—more difficult to move and turn than he would have otherwise presumed.

Javert tried to move his legs—they were on the other side of the wall, it seemed. He had fallen forward, as he assumed, but only from his torso upward. The lower half of his body was at that moment pressed firmly against the exterior of the wall, his boots digging into moist soil. The angle of his legs relative to the wall and soft ground provided enough leverage, Javert thought, for him to push in one direction or another; churning up dirt and gravel as he kicked at the bottom of the wall as hard as he dared.

He yanked his pelvis against the exterior side of the wall, and listened to the dry rasp of stones shifting as several smaller slabs wobbled ponderously before stilling once more, his position no more or less unchanged for his efforts than it had been before. Javert could only conclude that whatever hole had been large enough for him to fall through had not survived his wild floundering intact; possibly the gap filled with scattered shale and moldering mortar above—Javert presumed, from the firm weight settling at the base of his spine—his prone back. Snarling, he gave another sharp shove with his legs, and this time heard no scrape of stone and felt no new movements from the surrounding rock. It would seem that whatever had been rattled loose by his mishap had now settled into place.

Endeavoring to ignore the improbability of his circumstance following his inglorious bumble into and through the wall, Javert thought next to use his arms to pull himself forward. If necessary, he could crawl—artlessly, laboriously, with very little self-respect remaining to him should he succeed—through the hole, clawing at dirt the whole way. But his forelimbs were caught in the thatch of vines, knotted and looped in a web of greens and browns down his chest, around his biceps. Javert pulled and tugged and found there was some give; but further contortions only abraded his hands on thick vines and decaying masonry, without providing him the leverage needed to pull himself through the narrow gap. Maybe if his arms had the strength of Valjean’s, he could simply rend the leafy curtain like so much paper, but…

Javert turned his head back to the private little garden and grimaced, his cheeks burning with a creeping humiliation. Of all the ridiculous, insensible, asinine—he was a grown man! An old man! Former Inspector of the Paris Police, first class, who had survived rebellion and rivers and his own impossible guilt, feared and respected by criminals and ordinary citizenry alike.

And he was—he was—trapped, by a sagging wall and a bit of verge, in the garden of his own home!

It was preposterous. Appalling. Maddening beyond endurance—Javert needed to consider his options for freeing himself, and as quickly as possible, before Valjean returned home and there was someone to actually bear witness to this absurdity—

“Javert?”

Javert wasn’t sure if it was ice in his veins freezing him in place, or if he might actually combust from the blazing inferno of embarrassment that swept over his entire body.

Valjean’s warm voice resounded throughout the garden, still some distance away. “Javert, are you still out here? Your note said…”

Oh, God. Javert could not allow anyone—not even Valjean!—to see him like this. It did not matter that Valjean would be kind, and understanding, and, and—saintly, and… perhaps a touch amused, but certainly a bastion of empathy and compassion as he witnessed what was rapidly becoming one of the more mortifying incidents in Javert’s five-and-some decades of life.

And Javert had once been held captive by university students.

Javert scrambled at the vines for a fierce moment, as if he could throw himself bodily away from the gap in the wall before Valjean discovered him; and then he just as quickly stilled, lest his movement make too much noise and draw Valjean’s attention.

It did not matter, either way; Valjean’s voice was closer now, because of course it was: Javert’s note would lead the other man right to him.

“Javert?” Valjean called again. And then more quietly, muttering under his breath: “Did he return to the house? Is he upstairs, perhaps?”

But Valjean was going to check by the wall anyway, because Javert’s blasted note had said he would be there. Javert grappled with the confining ivy for another desperate second, his boots scraping uselessly over dirt and rock, his torso remaining securely wedged between the gap. And the noise of his heels against rock had been noticeably loud besides, for now Valjean’s footsteps were hurrying forward, and his voice held a joyful lilt as he cried, “Javert!”

Javert slumped briefly against the wall he was trapped within, giving himself over to fate with a resignation not dissimilar to when he had once given himself over to the Seine. As always, there was no escaping Jean Valjean—not for him.

Valjean’s footsteps sounded very close now, although Javert could do nothing more than strain over his shoulder to glimpse the wall of ivy and stone surrounding him.

Javert realized at once when Valjean spotted him, for the other man had been chastising lightly, his tone indulgent despite the admonishment, “If you were here, my dear, say something—”

And then there was silence, save for a startled puff of air, much too close at hand for Javert to remain unnoticed. Javert’s head swam with the blush flooding his cheeks, scorching his neck, shooting in flaming rivers down his chest. His arms were trembling within the tangle of vines, his hands shaking, his eyes—dear God, were his eyes actually watering?

Truly, for a moment, he almost wished Valjean hadn’t fished him out of the river. He was positive he was going to expire of the sheer ignominy here and now anyway, and waste all of Valjean’s efforts in rehabilitating him into an acceptable human being.

Still; there was no point ignoring Valjean now.

“Jean,” Javert said, in his most level, reasonable, no-nonsense tone of voice. He had been becoming markedly skilled in his delivery whenever Little Fantine asked for something she already very well knew she was not permitted, like eating her way through Toussaint’s famous cherry clafoutis before dinner—no, not even when her Mama and Papa were not present; no, not even when Grandpapa had stepped out for a minute and Uncle Javert was, inexplicably, the only adult-shaped person in her immediate vicinity.

“…Javert,” Valjean replied. He sounded vaguely dazed. “What on Earth—”

“As you can see,” Javert said, still striving to keep his bearing calm, composed, and judicious; as he might when speaking with to a superior. “There has been an incident.”

“Indeed!” Valjean barked, laughter caught in the back of his throat, and he coughed; “That is, are you all right? You’re not hurt, are you?”

The last few words were delivered with an aching sincerity, and Javert had well imagined they might be. Valjean was too good to truly laugh at him and his plight, and he would genuinely fret that Javert might be injured before he poked fun at how Javert must look, stuck halfway through a hole in the wall—only his legs and backside visible, and God in Heaven, Javert hadn’t thought his cheeks could feel any hotter than they already did; and yet.

“The only wounds sustained have been to my pride,” Javert said, stiffly, and he heard the muted snuffle of a repressed chuckle from Valjean’s direction. Javert pressed on regardless: “I have found I cannot easily free myself on my own, at least not without the wall possibly falling on my head, and I would very much appreciate your assistance.”

There was a short pause while Valjean digested this information and, very likely, considered it from the perspective he was privy to. That is—Javert with his backside hanging half-out of the hole.

Valjean tried to reassure him, “The wall here is safe enough.”

“There is a hole in it!” Javert’s perfectly even and imminently rational speech was taking on a rising note of hysteria. He cleared his throat and said, sedate once more, “I cannot see how this is safe.”

“I had already inspected this section several times—I’ve found the gap here as well before, although…” Valjean’s words trailed off, and Javert felt his shame reach new heights as he became conscious of what Valjean was telling him; that Valjean had managed to stumble across the hole without stumbling into it.

“There are entire sections collapsed further along in the garden,” Javert pointed out, fidgeting against the course rock and draped ivy enmeshed around him as he considered the structural integrity of the remaining wall. “Surely this is in no better shape?”

Valjean’s voice was nearer now, and unusually breathy as he replied, “The collapsed parts are older.” Javert could hear leaves rustling and the light scrape of stone as Valjean parted vines and ran his fingers over aging masonry. “If you push through the ivy, sometimes you can find the date the wall was first laid inscribed on one of the slabs.”

Javert wondered if it might only be his imagination, but Valjean seemed very close now. Javert could have sworn he almost felt the other man’s body heat radiating against his own, and Javert shuddered in a way that had nothing to do with embarrassment—and then promptly felt ashamed to have such a reaction, when he was in such a state as this. Javert was aware enough that a lifetime of self-abnegation, overturned and discarded entirely once he had discovered his feelings for Valjean and been privileged to have them returned in kind, had often left him perhaps more—overzealous—than what was strictly recommended for the sake of propriety.

But really. There were times to consider the closeness of Valjean’s body near his own, and this was not one of them.

Seeking to refocus his thoughts, Javert said, “So I could—” and kicked a little harder, pushing more of his weight into the stone slabs. If the wall was not about to come falling down upon his head, then maybe he could be more aggressive in his attempts to free himself, especially now that he had Valjean’s strong arms to contribute.

Although, additional struggling had not yet rallied the prodigious strength of the man who had once been Le Cric, and Javert’s thin lips pulled down in puzzlement.

“Jean?” He asked. “Your aid, if you would?”

“Hmm,” Valjean replied, in a considering tone Javert wasn’t quite sure what to make of, much less in his current circumstances. “Of course, dear heart. It is only…”

Javert shifted again within the ersatz cage of the stone wall and leafy vines. “‘Only’?”

“Well,” Valjean said, and yes; Javert was most certainly feeling the other man’s body heat, Valjean so close that all he would need to do is lean forward to plaster his hips across Javert’s back.

Despite Valjean’s proximity, the first soft press of the flat of Valjean’s palm on the small of Javert’s back was startling, unexpected, and Javert jerked—against Valjean’s hand, against the vines, against the accursed wall.

Javert felt both strangely confined, entrapped within masonry, and very exposed—unable to see anything of Valjean as the other man stepped closer.

“Jean,” Javert said breathlessly, “What in the world are you doing?”

Valjean’s response was not in words, but in the slide of that callused palm, angling downward to wrap around Javert’s clothed hip.

“Jean,” Javert repeated. He turned forward, eyes wide, heartbeat beginning to thrum rapid and pounding beneath his sternum. “You aren’t really—Jean, we don’t know if the wall—”

Valjean thumped the wall solidly once, twice; the stones wedged above Javert’s back did not so much as quiver.

“Oh, certainly, now they won’t budge,” Javert grumbled. “That couldn’t have been the case before.”

“Perhaps you’re serving as their new mortar,” Valjean mused.

Javert could think of a few possible rejoinders to that, not all of them fit for polite company, when Javert felt Valjean’s other hand alight on Javert’s opposite hip, gripping him firmly, unmistakably as Valjean sighed, “You have no idea…”

If Javert was under any additional illusion as to Valjean’s intentions, they were dashed completely when Valjean pressed forward and Javert felt through the fabric of his trousers the warm, solid weight of Valjean’s cock nestle between the dip of his cheeks.

“No idea…” Valjean said again, with a grind of his growing erection against Javert’s arse.

“What do you mean?” Javert panted, unable to deny his body’s usual reactions—expected, eager, instinctual as Valjean pushed against him; intimate and pulsing heat.

“Walking over here… seeing you.” Valjean dragged his stiffening length in hard, even strokes along Javert’s trousers, over his cleft. Javert dropped his head, body relaxing against the wall now helping to hold him up so much as ensnare him, his own cock stirring in response. “Your legs, your—bent over, at just the right height for me… the only thing I could see, Javert, the very first thing I saw…”

Javert felt a moan pulled inexorably out of his throat at Valjean’s halting confession, the sound reverberating through his chest, his body swaying with the movement of Valjean rocking against his backside.

It was reckless, of course. Irresponsible. They were hidden in the depths of Valjean’s tumultuous garden, this was true; but it was yet early evening, the sun just dipping below the horizon. Beyond the iron fence surrounding the Rue Plumet, there were Parisians scurrying to their homes, or to a café or public house, or calling upon friends, or hailing cabs… It was not impossible for Toussaint to drop in, or even Cosette or Marius—what if there was some emergency with Little Fantine? They couldn’t, not outside, not amongst the shrubs and flowers Valjean so lovingly chose to either tend or let run wild, now when they were two grown men with a perfectly comfortable bed just a few minutes’ walk away.

Not when Javert was trapped inside a wall. That would be foolhardy—insane—absurd.

Valjean pitched forward, the bulk of his still hale and muscular body bearing down on Javert’s lower back. His cock was fully erect and throbbing where it rutted between Javert’s cheeks, Valjean’s objective unmistakable, undeniable.

“Jean,” Javert said; a final plea for sanity.

“If only you knew,” Valjean said, his voice gone low and hoarse with need, and Javert shuddered, caught by that voice as readily as he was caught in this ridiculous wall, by this ridiculous situation. It was easy to get lost in the throaty rasp of Valjean’s words and forget entirely where Javert was or what they were doing, because nobody had ever spoken to Javert like that before Valjean.

Nobody had ever looked at Javert and touched Javert and burned with want for Javert, had caressed and kissed and stroked—not only because Valjean wanted to please Javert, but because somehow, Javert could also bring Valjean pleasure. And as the years passed and their comfort with one another grew, so too did Valjean’s confidence and boldness, his enthusiasm and his desire to find that pleasure in Javert’s hands and mouth and body.

Valjean’s fingers tightened around Javert’s waist hard enough to bruise, and Javert found himself canting his hips back, groaning aloud; damn the fact they were outside and anyone walking along the pavement on the other side of the tall fence could possibly overhear them. Anything for Valjean like this, free and unrestrained in desire for him, for Javert, that he forgot himself and did not check his strength at every moment.

“If you knew what you looked like—what it was like, to find you, like you were waiting for me—”

Javert’s breath was rough, gasping, broken. He could picture it, in his mind’s eye, through Valjean’s words. And he could imagine, if he had planned it, it he had been waiting—if he had been hoping Valjean would find him, would see him bent at the waist and would simply take him, claim what was Valjean’s; because Javert belonged to Valjean wholly, completely, in his entirety. Javert did not always understand why Valjean wanted him, yet there was no part of himself that Javert would not offer up to Valjean if the other man but asked.

If Javert had intended—if he had planned to present himself in this way—

“God, Jean,” Javert said, his hands tangling in the thick vines for grip. “Please.”

He wasn’t fully certain what he was asking for—please touch him; please keep talking; please keep moving—but Valjean understood well enough, because he was reached around and fumbling with the fastenings on Javert’s trousers. Valjean’s knuckles jostled along Javert’s stomach as he groped awkwardly between Javert’s legs and the rock wall until both trousers and drawers were pooling halfway down Javert’s thighs.

Javert’s cock pushed insistently past the flap of his trousers and flexed against his stomach, already roused from the heady sensation of Valjean’s erection sliding between his cheeks. Javert felt the ghost of heat from Valjean’s hand as it fluttered above the length of Javert’s shaft, Javert trying to rut up into Valjean’s palm even as Valjean slid his hand away; Valjean’s answering laughter rumbling against the back of Javert’s neck as Javert groaned in frustration. His cock bobbed and twitched between his legs, heavy and dripping and aching to be touched, but Javert could not lay a hand on himself—every touch he could receive would have to be by Valjean’s hands, and Valjean’s hands alone. Javert shuddered at the realization, his eyelashes fluttering, his limbs trembling.

He spread his legs as best as he could within the space allowed by the fabric bound around his legs, and Javert felt another shiver travel through his nerve endings as he registered the fact that he could not move very far—that he would truly be entirely at Valjean’s disposal for what he, Javert, could offer the other man; what he would feel from Valjean in turn.

Valjean brought his hands to the curve of Javert’s cheeks and kneaded the plush muscle beneath, his touch proprietary in a way Valjean did not always allow himself to be; his palms pulling at Javert’s arse until Valjean held Javert spread and open, baring Javert’s ruddy, wrinkled hole to Valjean’s gaze.

Javert pressed his cheek against his own shoulder, his arms still raised and clutching at coiled mat of vines, and tried to steady his breathing; dizzy with the rush of blood to his face, his cock. He wanted to take himself in hand—he could feel the fluid leaking from the slit, the sweet ache of his cock, his sac hanging full and heavy and sensitive. He had been brought close to the precipice of his release already by the proximity of Valjean’s body, by the strangeness, the thrill of this ludicrous predicament, by the fervor of Valjean’s need, for him, for him—Javert thought that any touch at all on his throbbing length, and he might spill right then, with just a single hand on him—

But Valjean swept a dry thumb over the delicate skin of Javert’s hole instead, and Javert felt the high-pitched whine yanked from his mouth as much as he heard it. His hips pushed back eagerly toward Valjean’s finger, seeking more and harder and thicker to fuck himself against; Javert’s body suddenly intensely, agonizingly empty, hollow, desperate to be held and taken and filled.

Valjean had pulled back his thumb, however, and Javert whined again, beyond caring for how he looked or sounded when Valjean was teasing him. Valjean had started this, Valjean had pressed against that yielding ring of muscle and then pulled back—

He heard the faint rustle of fabric on the other side of the wall, felt the air stir with Valjean’s movement; and then Javert gasped, startled, as Valjean spat, unbearably crude, onto Javert’s hole. Javert’s eyes were hot and his heart was hammering as Valjean spat again, smearing his saliva across the soft, dusky skin of Javert’s entrance.

Javert felt Valjean’s body shift behind him again as Valjean replaced his finger—his forefinger, Javert guessed, from the length and feel of it—and pushed against that muscle, meeting only momentary resistance before Javert relaxed; instinctive, welcoming. Javert’s limbs went loose and his hips raised and his hole opened easily to the first slick slide of Valjean’s finger questing inside, stroking along wet walls with deliberate focus—and there, Valjean rubbed firmly over the nub of Javert’s prostate, Javert’s feet scrabbling over grass and soil and stone. His legs fought the confines of his clothing to spread wider, to take Valjean deeper, and Valjean skimmed over that nub again—

Javert wrenched at the thick curtain of ivy twining around his arms for support and jolted back against Valjean’s hand, even as Valjean chuckled again behind him, even as Valjean still wasn’t touching his cock. Javert’s length brushed the open placket of his trousers, bumping lightly at the greenery carpeting the wall before it—tantalizing whispers of a caress, but not what he needed, not enough to bring Javert where he wanted to be.

“Jean,” Javert growled. “Jean, it’s not enough—touch me or fuck me, please—”

“But I am touching you,” Valjean murmured, one fingertip tapping unevenly at the soft swell of Javert’s prostate. Little lightning sparks chased down Javert’s spine, sizzling along his nerves; his head dizzy and his cock throbbing, a pulsing heat building in his balls and rolling in slow cresting waves up his length, pre-ejaculate drooling wet and sticky across Javert’s stomach.

Valjean’s finger thrust forward once more, grazing that sensitive nub again, and again as Javert bucked and squirmed; his lower body caught between the full ache of his cock and the near emptiness of his hole, with only Valjean’s finger to fill him.

“And,” Valjean said, with another shove of his forefinger that struck Javert’s prostate. “I am fucking you.”

Javert tilted his head back, his skin growing damp with sweat; his hair sticking to his temples, his cheeks, along the back of his neck and across his shoulders. “Touch my cock,” Javert begged. “Or fuck me with yours—or both—either—Jean!”

Valjean stroked jagged circles over the smooth walls of Javert’s passage, around the spongy nub within him—each circle growing tighter, closer, and every accidental sweep along his prostate sending a distant, answering throb through Javert’s length. Never enough to bring him to completion; only enough for Javert’s cock to twitch and flex and thrum with a roiling, rising pleasure, and God above, he wanted to come, if only he could touch himself—if he weren’t tangled up, if he could down through the hole in the wall—

But Valjean withdrew his finger, derailing Javert’s thoughts as he whimpered at the loss. Valjean stroked Javert’s exposed skin—above his arse, across his hips—in aimless, soothing patterns, Valjean’s voice rich and resonant and just filthy enough; the way Javert liked best, the way they had learned together as he asked, “You would want that? You want me to fuck you?”

Valjean nudged forward, and Javert’s breath caught in his throat at the warm weight of Valjean’s girth as it dragged down his cleft, the fat head of Valjean’s dripping cock catching on the puckered skin of Javert’s hole.

“Y, yes,” Javert panted, clutching at the matted curtain of ivy, angling his pelvis on the other side of the wall. He nodded furiously for all that Valjean could not see. “Yes, I want that.”

He heard the messy, sucking sound of what he imagined to be Valjean’s mouth around his fingers, the slap of wet skin along Valjean’s length; and when Valjean pressed forward again, his cock nestled between Javert’s cheeks, his precome was a sticky smear at the base of Javert’s spine, his shaft slick with saliva.

Valjean’s words were husky, heady, intoxicating as he asked, “What do you want, Javert?”

“You,” Javert keened, rocking back into the implacable wall of warmth and muscle that was Jean Valjean. “Want you, Jean.” He dragged the swell of his arse over the glorious, surging heft of Valjean’s shaft, imploring, “I want you, your cock. I want you inside me, taking me—”

Either Valjean had decided to stop teasing him, or Valjean was closer to his own release than Javert realized, because Valjean drew back—the thick, leaking head of his cock dragging along the dip of Javert’s cleft and then Javert felt it: the broad, blunt pressure, burning hot and dribbling pre-ejaculate over the delicate skin of his hole. Javert’s lungs constricted and his stomach flipped, the head of Valjean’s cock pushing against him, Valjean’s hands grasping and lifting Javert’s hips into position, lining Javert up—

“You want it like this?” Valjean asked, “Trapped here, and bent over—for me—” The head of his cock dug into the tender flesh of Javert’s entrance, too much and not enough. “You want me, even like this?”

Valjean’s voice was strained, breathless, knowing, and Javert could have howled with frustration. Instead he planted his boots against the wall and shoved back with as much force as he could; bearing back on the heated, velvet skin sliding over the rim of his hole.

It wasn’t much, with the awkward angle he was caught at; but it was enough for the head to pop past the tight ring of muscle, Javert moaning unabashed and unreserved as he felt himself split wide and spread open around Valjean’s thick, pulsing length.

Javert’s body lit up from within, his skin vibrating with need, the sensation of being filled, taken; of accepting something so large and solid inside his body, sinking deeper and sliding further into his passage, thrusting past Javert’s slick walls and possessing him, remaking him.

Javert heard Valjean’s answering groan thundering out of the stocky barrel of his chest, felt the sweat-dampened fumble of Valjean’s hands around Javert’s waist, hauling Javert back as Valjean pushed forward. Javert’s mouth fell open as Valjean’s cock plunged further inside, thicker and heavier and impossibly hotter. As Javert was reshaped to fit Jean Valjean, to take everything of what Valjean would give him—all of Valjean’s adoration, all of Valjean’s desire; Valjean’s reverent touches and his teasing caresses and his firm strokes, his love and his kindness and his humor and, yes, his compassion too:

For Javert could think of it as nothing but mercy when finally, finally, finally, Valjean reached around the curve of Javert’s hip to wrap a broad hand around Javert’s cock. His fingertips brushed along Javert’s sac before stroking upward so that Valjean’s thumb could rub beneath the glans, and Javert was shaking, his muscles contracting, his long nails digging into the meat of his palms as he pleaded, “Almost, Jean, I’m nearly—just a little more—”

Javert sobbed to feel Valjean pump his length, slow and steady and just this side of too tight and exactly as Javert most liked it. Valjean’s knuckles bumped the stone wall where his hand was trapped between it and Javert’s body, and Valjean’s grasp around Javert’s length spasmed at the reminder—the reality of Javert trapped within the wall, his backside so perfectly positioned and willing to accept Valjean’s cock.

Javert could hear Valjean’s breathing grow faster, more erratic as Valjean shuffled his hold around Javert’s waist—Valjean’s cock sinking all the way inside of him, Valjean’s pelvis pressed flush to Javert’s buttocks. His balls rested against the dilated skin of Javert’s hole, stretched taut and tender around Valjean’s girth.

Javert felt the edge of his release in the gentle roll of his balls between Valjean’s fingers, in the deliberate drag of his cock back out of Javert’s hole—just a bit too much friction, just enough burn that Javert would feel its echoes in the days to come; Javert reduced to quivering and shaking and crying out, nonsense words and Valjean’s name, always Valjean’s name, a litany and a prayer and a plea.

Valjean halted before he pulled out completely, the head of his cock held just inside Javert’s entrance, the reddened skin pulled smooth and gleaming with pre-ejaculate and saliva where it spread open around Valjean’s shaft. Javert bucked his hips, trying to force Valjean back inside, or to move Valjean’s hand around his length, and Valjean waited—for just a moment—with Javert caught and thrashing on his cock, insensate in his desires.

“Beautiful,” Valjean whispered, but Javert was lost as Valjean stripped his cock with quick, brutal, perfect strokes. And then Valjean was thrusting forward again, deep and penetrating and right where Javert needed it; the unyielding silken weight of it wholly possessing and consuming where it pushed against Javert’s walls, where it stuffed Javert full and split Javert apart.

Valjean fell into a jerky, juddering rhythm, his length brushing past Javert’s abused prostate in time with his fingers twisting around the head of Javert’s cock. Javert felt the white hot lightning that had been building at the base of his spine evolve, erupt; his skin on fire and his hands and feet tingling, his sac drawn up tight beneath his shaft. His cock pounded with each push of Valjean’s length inside him and then Javert was shouting, coming in long pulsing gushes over Valjean’s hands, Javert’s seed splattering the garden wall, seeping over the ivy and over Valjean’s fingers in fluid, thumping spurts.

“Oh,” Valjean sighed, dazed, as Javert’s hole rippled around him; as his hand drifted lazily over Javert’s softening cock, the prickling skin. “Javert, I’m—”

“God, yes,” Javert moaned, shoving himself onto Valjean’s cock, fucking himself on Valjean’s length with as much force as he could gain in his precarious position. “Let go—Let go, Jean, inside me now. I want to feel all of you.”

Javert felt that too-tight, too-bruising grip again, and his spent cock gave a twitch of satisfaction at knowing Valjean was past worrying; at knowing Valjean was only chasing his own pleasure now, and Javert reveled in receiving it, in causing it.

His expression relaxed into a smug, contented smile that no one else would see as Valjean threw his hips against Javert’s, their skin smacking together wet and obscene. The rhythm of Valjean’s thrusts faltered, unraveling into rough shoves while Valjean chased the slick and heat and friction of Javert’s hole wrapped around his cock.

And then Valjean’s grip was seizing around Javert’s hips and Valjean went still against Javert’s backside; tipping forward to rest against the wall between them as his seed poured inside Javert, the spreading warmth filling him from within until Javert was squirming on Valjean’s spent cock and Valjean was murmuring senseless, reverent, “Oh, Javert. Oh, beautiful.”

They were both a long time in catching their breath, Valjean yet resting his head upon the smooth ivy and cool stone of the wall. Javert drooped forward bonelessly, latching on to the surrounding vines and greenery to help hold himself up as his sagging body began to press uncomfortably at the uneven ridge of stone.

Javert could still feel Valjean inside of him, softened; but a familiar weight as Javert gently squeezed and relaxed his entrance, the trembling walls of his passage, and Valjean groaned as he gave Javert’s arse a pinch.

“None of that, now,” Valjean said, “I think I could sleep for a week.”

Javert shifted, feeling the first trickles of Valjean’s seed slipping around his flaccid length and oozing down Javert’s loosened furl.

“I will remind you,” Javert said, as reasonably as a man could with spend running down his thighs. “That this was your idea.”

Valjean grunted and pressed his hands flat against the stone barrier that had proven so inspiring, carefully pulling his hips back, dragging his cock through the thick fluid of his own release as he slid out of Javert’s stretched ring with a lewd squelch.

Javert shivered, feeling curiously cold and shockingly empty but for Valjean’s emission still seeping out of him. His hole fluttered, clenching and unclenching again, and he heard a ragged inhale from Valjean, and realized the other man must have seen—must have been watching.

“If we were younger men…” Valjean mused, a frequent refrain, and his hand was gentle on Javert’s bare, sweaty hip. Javert’s cheeks were still flushed from their exertions, and flared hotter still at Valjean’s appraising murmur as Javert’s empty hole continued to flutter around nothingness.

He was almost tempted to ask Valjean to push his fingers back inside, just to keep feeling that incredible fullness, but—Javert twisted slightly, the fog of arousal beginning to dissipate after his release. There really was quite a prominent ache starting to build at the base of his spine, and along the hard edges where stone dug into the flesh of his hips.

“I think we already carried on like young fools,” Javert admitted, trying to pop his back in his prone position within the wall, to absolutely no avail.

Javert pushed aside the last hazy vestiges of his release, no matter that his knees were wobbly and his clothing soiled and Valjean’s seed still streaked down his legs. He wriggled against the wall again and said, “Jean,” and then again, louder: “Jean.”

“Javert,” Valjean returned, languid and indolent where he draped himself against the coarse stone wall. Javert supposed Valjean could be forgiven; he was not the one stuck in between rock and mortar, and moreover he had a very different view before him than Javert, who would happily never see these empty flowerbeds and this rotting bench ever again.

One of Valjean’s hands tightened, still clasped possessively over Javert’s backside, and Javert shifted; very aware of exactly what view Valjean still had.

“Jean, if you wouldn’t mind,” Javert said, as Valjean traced his fingertips over Javert’s skin, heedless of the sweat and semen still clinging to it. Valjean’s wandering hands after they had both found their release was nothing unusual, and ordinarily Javert was more than happy to lie back and allow Valjean to carry on for as long as he wished.

However.

“Yes, darling?” Valjean asked, his thumbs lying perfectly in the dimples above Javert’s cheeks.

Javert fought the urge to lean into that touch, and tried to muster the same gravitas he had carried with him through decades of demanding either fear or respect—or both—as he said, “Would you please help me get out of this damned wall?”