Title: I don't mind stealing bread
Work ID: 20641553
Author: anna_chronistic
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Karaoke, Music, Grunge, i honestly only wrote this fic just to make music references, Sorry Not Sorry, Post-Seine, Cheesy, I Wrote This Instead of Sleeping
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

As a 50-something cop, Javert wasn't the type of person to attend any kind of party. He was regularly tasked at finishing his work and planning ahead for the next day. In fact, the last concert he had been to was Alice In Chains back in 1992. Years had gone by, and for the most part he kept to himself.

One of the few people that he saw regularly outside of the police department was Jean Valjean.

Now Javert knew about Valjean's past, his criminal history, his years as a fugitive. But despite this, they were still friends and even joked about it from time to time. This is because Javert learned to be more forgiving after Valjean had rescued him from the Seine. After learning about the context of Valjean's situation, Javert (as stern as he was) began to see Valjean as just an ordinary person.

"Cosette is forcing me to go out more," Valjean said to Javert. "So I was thinking of going to karaoke night at the bar."

"Oh really. What song would you sing?" asked Javert.

"Hunger Strike by Temple of the Dog," said Valjean.

"I don't mind stealin' bread from the mouths of decadents" Valjean sang.

"To be fair, you aren't lying," Javert pointed out the technicality.

"Come on, Javert. That was back in 1981," Valjean laughed. "I've definitely served more than enough time for that."

"Well good luck singing that song," said Javert.

"Well, Javert, the thing is that the song is best performed by, um..." Valjean hesitated a bit and blushed. "Two people." 

"Are you asking me to sing with you?" Javert asked rather directly.

"Maybe," Valjean teased. "You know this song, do you?"

"Of course I know this song. I'm a Gen X-er," said Javert.

"Great! Then your age group is the perfect target audience for this song."

"It might be for them, but not for me."

"Why is that?" Valjean asked.

"I never stole bread," Javert scoffed. And Valjean just stared at him.

"That can't be the real reason you don't want to sing this song," Valjean said wryly.

"Alright, you got me," said Javert. "I'm not really much of a singer. I'm more of a listen-to-the-radio-in-the-car-during-traffic kind of person."

"I don't think anyone who goes to a karaoke bar is gonna make it big on American Idol," said Valjean.

"Fair enough," said Javert.

"And I'll promise to tell Cosette's goofy-ass boyfriend not to put it on snapchat."

"Alright, I'll do it," said Javert. "I can't quite get the high parts, though. I have a pretty low voice."

"Then I'll sing Chris Cornell's part, and you can sing Eddie Vedder's part," Valjean suggested.

"Okay, I think that'll work."


Friday at 10:15 pm


The karaoke bar was lively with people who just got off their night shifts and a bunch of hipster students. Bahorel and Feuilly sang "Interstate Love Song" by Stone Temple Pilots. Marius and Cosette sang "Total Eclipse of the Heart". Joly, Bossuet, and Musichetta sang "Love Me Two Times" by the Doors. Éponine sang "Love is a Losing Game" alone, followed by Grantaire, who sang "Why Can't This Be Love" alone. Javert became tense as his turn came closer.

"You should so wear your hair down for this," Valjean suggested. "You'd look so grunge after you take off that librarian ponytail."

"That's not a librarian ponytail, for your information," Javert laughed. "And it sure as hell isn't now." Javert then took off his black hair band and put it around his wrist, and wildly shook his head like a biker chick that just took off her helmet.

"Coming up next to the stage, we have René Javert and Jean Valjean singing Hunger Strike!"

Valjean and Javert walked up to the stage hand in hand. The acoustic guitar in the intro played, setting the mood for what seemed like a placid soft rock song. When the first verse came about, Valjean began singing.

I don't mind stealin' bread from the mouths of decadents
But I can't feed on the powerless when my cup's already overfilled, yeah
But it's on the table, the fire's cookin'
And they're farmin' babies, while the slaves are all workin'
Blood is on the table and the mouths are all chokin'
But I'm goin' hungry, yeah

And just like that, it was Javert's turn.

I don't mind stealin' bread from the mouths of decadents
But I can't feed on the powerless when my cup's already overfilled, uh huh
But it's on the table, the fire's cookin'
And they're farmin' babies, while the slaves are all workin'
And it's on the table, their mouths are all chokin'
But I'm goin' hungry

Javert sustained the long note of the last word "hungry".


Goin' hungry, yeah!


Valjean sang an octave higher, joining Javert so that the two were singing simultaneously.


I'm goin' hungry


Javert sang the lower, longer note.

I'm goin' hungry, yeah! 

Valjean echoed again. The pair repeated that two more times.


I'm goin' hungry



Goin' hungry, yeah!



I'm goin' hungry



Goin' hungry, yeah!


As the instrumental interlude played, it became more apparent that this was indeed a grunge song. Javert flipped his hair the way a lot of guitarists do when they want to look cool. Never has a police in their 50's looked so metal.

The song then went to the refrain.


I'm goin' hungry (Goin' hungry, yeah!)
I'm goin' hungry (Goin' hungry, yeah!)


Yeah, I don't mind stealin' bread 

Valjean sang rather passionately.


I don't mind


Javert echoed this time, holding the note "mind".


No, I don't mind stealin' bread!


Valjean sang the highest part of the song, his voice soulful and melismatic. His gaze locked onto Javert's vivid blue eyes as the two harmonized.


I'm goin' hungry (Goin' hungry, yeah!)
I'm goin' hungry (Goin' hungry, yeah!)


Then a final guitar riff ended the song. There was some applause after that, mostly from Cosette and the hipster students.


Friday 11:45 pm


"Thank you for singing with me, Javert," Valjean said, putting his hand on Javert's shoulder.

"That song means a lot to me, you know. It reminds me of my life in Favorelles. You know, trying to help my family in this unfair, cruel world. My struggle to be a good person. It brings me back. And reminds me how far I've come since then. I just wish things had changed earlier," Valjean shed a tear, brown eyes shining. "Then just maybe my sister might still be alive today."

"I didn't realize how much that song meant to you," Javert said. That was all he could think to say at the moment.

"Behind every person is a story," Valjean said. "And I am so grateful that you have come to understand mine and Cosette's. No matter how many decades it took, it's still such a meaningful thing."

"And I have you to thank for that, Jean Valjean, for teaching me that lesson."

Valjean and Javert shared an emotional hug. It turned out that this night was more than just a karaoke night.