Title: I Walk with Him Till Morning
Work ID: 1339855
Author: pushingcrazies
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy, Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Underage Drinking, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Working for Valjean certainly had it’s downsides.  During the first two weeks of the semester, not to mention the last two weeks of the previous semester and the whole time in between, things got crazy busy.  All his employees rushed around, sometimes skipping classes to take on extra shifts.  Helping customers, shelving books, pulling overstock, buying used books, sending off online orders…the work was never-ending.

 

But there were plenty of perks to balance out the negatives.  Not the least of which was the fact that Valjean bought lunch and dinner for anyone lucky (or unlucky) enough to be working those shifts.  Also there was a fat bonus at the end of the rush season, the amount of which depended on how hard you worked.

 

And then there was the traditional end-of-rush party.

 

Almost all of Valjean’s employees were under 21 but he was always willing to supply beer and liquor and a place to crash if anyone drank too much, which invariably happened.  He was the sort of man who understood what being a young person meant, and he figured if you can’t stop the kids from doing what was forbidden, you might as well give them a safe place to do it in.  Anyone who staggered too much had their keys stealthily swiped and their beer was replaced with water or else they were shown where to lie down.  It wasn’t unheard of for the sun to peek into the window on the following morning to find half a dozen young men passed out in the living room with an extra three or four young women camped out on Cosette’s large bed.  The only rule (other than not driving drunk) was that nobody, no matter how funny they thought it might be, was allowed to give Gavroche any alcohol.

 

(All of this may or may not have been one of the reasons why the head of campus police, Javert, kept such a close eye on Valjean.  He suspected wrongdoing, but he had never been able to pin anything on the owner of the bookstore, nor his employees.)

 

Eponine had already attended one end-of-rush party, and it had been a blast.  She hadn’t drunk anything that night, but she was feeling a little more adventurous this time.  Maybe if she gained a little liquid courage she would be able to talk to Marius…and maybe more.

 

Grantaire promised to start her off slow.  He set up a game of Quarters on Valjean’s kitchen counter, which apparently was the perfect height and width for it, he declared.  Courfeyrac, Bossuet, Bahorel, and even Jehan joined in.  Enjolras watched them, rolling his eyes, but even he cheered and laughed when Eponine somehow managed to bounce the quarter into two glasses with one go.

 

“Are you sure you’ve never played this before?” Courfeyrac asked skeptically as he and Grantaire drank.

 

Eponine only smiled.  Yes, it was her first time and she wasn’t even aware it was possible to hit two cups with one shot.  That was what made it so awesome.  It made her feel warm to hear their cheers, or maybe that was the beer seeping into her system.  The game continued, but after half an hour Eponine was feeling brave (and drunk) enough to go after Marius.  She grabbed Joly, who was passing through.

 

“Play for me.  Where’s Marius?”

 

“Out by the pool, I think.”

 

There was a loud cheer as Bossuet bounced the quarter into the center cup, and then a mad scramble as everyone grabbed and chugged their beers.  Poor Joly was completely bewildered.  “Wait, why do I have to drink the center cup?” he asked as Eponine stumbled her way to the back door.  “WHY IS THERE A QUARTER IN THERE?  I’M NOT DRINKING THAT!  DO YOU KNOW HOW MANY GERMS ARE ON A SINGLE QUARTER?”

 

Eponine grinned.  She was finally going to do it, after months of pining.  She was going to tell Marius how she felt about him.  She wondered what it would be like to kiss him.  He had such soft-looking lips.  And she could bet he would be gentle.  She smiled and shivered a little at the thought.

 

Which, of course, was the exact moment she spotted Marius.  Making out with Cosette beside the pool.

 

Maybe it was the alcohol, but Eponine suddenly felt as though the world had been turned upside-down.  She could not make sense of her thoughts; she wanted to scream and cry and throw things but it all seemed like too much effort and all she could do was turn around and march back into the house.  The boys were too engrossed in their game to notice her reentrance, even Enjolras, who was now calling out strategies and lecturing about the physics of a bouncing quarter.  She grabbed Grantaire’s shoulder.

 

“That was fast,” he said, laughing.  He didn’t seem to notice the look on her face or maybe she had no look on her face.  Maybe the beer had paralyzed her expressions in the same way the shock had paralyzed her heart.

 

“Make me a shot.”

 

“Of what?”

 

“I don’t care.  Anything.  Everything.  I’ve never had a shot before.  Or a mixed drink.  Can you make me a mixed drink?”

 

Grantaire grabbed his beer so they couldn’t gang up on him and led her to the liquor cabinet.  Valjean had some pretty classy stuff, but Grantaire extracted a few of the plainer bottles.  He could already see this wasn’t going to end well, so there was no point in wasting the fancy alcohol.  A better man (Enjolras) would say it was his duty to make sure things didn’t end poorly, but Grantaire was not the sort to stop anyone from systematically destroying themselves.  That would make him a hypocrite.

 

“We’ll get you a mixed drink.  Shots aren’t for beginners, little girl.”

 

He poured a little bit of a couple different types of alcohol into a large plastic cup, just a few splashes each.  He was about to reach for some juice when Eponine said, “More.”

 

And who was Grantaire to argue?

 

Things became a blur after that.  Eponine wandered from group to group, watching some play Rock Band on Valjean’s giant television, watching some play Quarters, watching some smoke on the back porch next to the pool.  Marius and Cosette had disappeared, or maybe Eponine just didn’t want to look at them.  She giggled and flirted and let Courfeyrac talk her into flashing him and maybe they made out a little or maybe that was her imagination.  Now that she knew how to mix her own drinks, she made liberal use of Valjean’s cabinet, except she had no clue about proportions yet and that last cup may or may not have been sixty percent alcohol, thirty percent Coke, and ten percent fervent prayer that she could keep it down.

 

And then, without even being consciously aware of her decision, she slipped out the front door and headed down the block.

 

The air was cool against her hot face.  She still clasped the cup in her hand and occasionally she sipped from it, though she could no longer taste the alcohol.  She couldn’t taste much of anything, for that matter, nor could she feel the tears that were falling quick and silent down her cheeks.  How did she let herself get so worked up over a boy?  (Although if she were completely honest with herself - and what better time to be honest than when you’re too drunk to remember it in the morning - it was never about Marius, not really.)

 

So what was it about then?

 

Before she could answer that, a rock jumped into her path completely of its own volition and tripped her.  She landed hard on her elbow and just lay there, sobbing for her spilled drink and ripped shirt.  Her head hurt and she wanted to go home, but not home-home because then her parents would see that she was turning into them and god didn’t that just beat all.  So where was home, then?  If home is where the heart is, did that mean Eponine had to return to Valjean’s house?  Or did it mean she never really had a home at all?

 

Hands grabbed her, hauled her to her feet.  She could find no will to protest and she thought she knew those hands but couldn’t place them at the moment.  They were good hands, strong hands, attached to a strong body and a worried face.  She could see the police car down the block a little ways and she remembered the name: Javert.  Javert was the one escorting her to his car, buckling her in like a child, speaking soothingly to her and smoothing down her hair.  She thought he must be taking her to the campus police department to book her for public intoxication or disorderly conduct (is it disorderly to cry on the sidewalk at 1 AM?  It must be) but instead she found herself back at Valjean’s and there were voices but she didn’t want to listen.

 

“-didn’t even know she had gone, where did you find her?”

 

“-few blocks over…Valjean, I thought we had a deal…look the other way and you would keep these kids safe-”

 

“I’m sorry, I don’t even know how she got so drunk…is she okay?  Did something happen to her-”

 

“…tripped, I think.  Nothing too horrible…lucky I found her before anyone else did, though.”

 

“-not a bad neighbourhood-”

 

“No, but you’re close enough to the campus where other students might be hanging about and not all the students are as well-behaved as these…”

 

“-what were you even doing on patrol?”

 

“Keeping an eye out.  Everyone in the world knows when your parties for your employees are.  Wanted to make sure…”

 

Eponine wriggled out of Javert’s grasp and pushed her way into the house.  Most the other kids were gathered around, but she couldn’t be bothered to feel embarrassed.  Mostly she just wanted to lie down.

 

Grantaire grabbed her by the arm and pulled her into the bathroom, depositing her in front of the toilet.  Just as she opened her mouth to protest she didn’t feel sick, a wave of vomit rose up her throat and she barely remembered to aim it into the toilet as it did.  Again and again the alcohol ejected itself from her system as yet more tears leaked from her eyes.  How could one person lose so much water and still be alive?

 

She finally stopped vomiting long enough to take a deep breath, but her stomach still felt ill.  She unceremoniously shoved her finger down her own throat - she’d never tried to make herself vomit before but it was surprisingly easy.  When the rest of the poison had left her system, she sat back with a sigh and a sniffle.  She must look a mess.

 

Grantaire handed her a glass of water.  “Sip it slowly,” he advised her.  “Don’t gulp or you’ll end up throwing it back up.  And you don’t want to throw up any more.”

 

Eponine obeyed.  Grantaire started to leave the bathroom, but she made a high-pitched whining sound and he crouched by her side.

 

“Please don’t leave me alone,” she whispered.

 

He sat down beside her.  “Okay.”  Slung an arm around her shoulders and pulled her close.

 

Javert and Valjean poked their heads into the bathroom, both looking worried.  Javert had known Eponine since she was small because of her parents’ tendency to get into trouble all over the city, including on the university campus; he felt a strange sort of protectiveness towards all her siblings, but it was strongest for her and Gavroche.

 

“Is she okay now?” Valjean asked Grantaire, but Javert spoke over him, addressing Eponine directly.

 

“How do you feel?”

 

She shrugged.  “Like crap.”

 

Javert huffed a small laugh.  “I bet.  Jean says you’re welcome to stay the night here, or I can take you to your home if you want.”

 

It’s an offer he only gave out of ceremony.  They all knew there was no way she’d be going home tonight.  “I’ll stay,” she told him.

 

Grantaire refilled her glass for her and pulled her to her feet.  She only wavered a little, much to her small delight.  He led her to Cosette’s room, put her into the bed, and tucked her in like a child.  “The others should be coming to bed soon.  Things have kind of died down out there.”  He started to leave.

 

“R,” she cried, sitting up and disturbing the blankets he so neatly tucked around her.

 

He stopped.  “What?”

 

“I really…really can’t be alone right now,” she choked.  “Please.”

 

To his credit, he only hesitated a moment before joining her on the bed.  Grantaire never stayed the night after end-of-rush parties.  Enjolras never drank very much, if at all, so he would be okay to drive and Grantaire would normally beg a ride from him.  There would be other parties, he told himself.  Other chances to spend twenty minutes just him and Enjolras and the radio to break the silence.

 

Eponine had only just drifted off to sleep when Courfeyrac stumbled into the room, looking bedraggled.  “Hey,” he protested.  “You’re not supposed to sleep in here.  Girls only, Valjean said.  Boys in the living room.”

 

“Keep your voice down,” Grantaire whispered.  “And what are you doing in here then?  Got that sex change operation already?”

 

Courfeyrac stuck his tongue out at him.  “Wanted to say g’night to ‘Ponine.”

 

Enjolras poked his head in, frowning.  “There you are.  I thought maybe you’d left already.  You need a ride?”

 

Grantaire cursed his ill luck.  He’d expected Enjolras to just leave, but for him to offer Grantaire a ride…that was unprecedented and something Grantaire would never dare hope for.  “Guess not.  I’mma stay here with Eponine, make sure she’s not too hung over in the morning.”

 

Enjolras raised an eyebrow.  “Valjean is going to yell at you if he sees you in here.”

 

Courfeyrac snorted.  “Valjean is too busy with the looooong arm of the law, if you know what I mean.”  He waggled his eyebrows.

 

“Now there’s something I didn’t want to picture,” Grantaire muttered.

 

“Shhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh,” Eponine hissed.  Her eyes were still closed but it she was awake and smiling slightly.  “You’re all too noisy.  Courf, get your arse in here.  You too, Enjolras.  You’re not going home tonight.  So says me and I’m ill so you have to do what I say.”

 

Enjolras huffed as Courfeyrac jumped onto the bed.  “If we all take over the bed, there won’t be any room left for Cosette.  It is her bed after all.”

 

Eponine groaned and shoved at Courfeyrac, who was reaching across her to warm his cold hands on Grantaire’s neck.  “Cosette will find room.  She can sleep anywhere, believe me.  She’s worse than a cat.”

 

Enjolras shook his head.  “Sorry.  I don’t sleep well in strange places.  I’m going home.”  He looked at Grantaire.  “Last chance for a ride.”

 

Eponine pushed Grantaire when he hesitated.  “Go on,” she said.  “I’m okay now.  I’ve got Courf to throw up on if I need to.”

 

“Hey!”

 

“You’re sure?”

 

“Yeah.”

 

Grantaire was out of the bed faster than lightning and he and Enjolras gave Eponine quick hugs goodbye.

 

“Send Jehan in here,” she instructed them.  “Or Joly,” she added as an afterthought.

 

They ended up sending both in, much to her delight.  Cosette’s bed was large, but it was still a bit of a squish, especially when Cosette herself joined them.  Courfeyrac pretended to snore loudly, which set them all to giggling.  It took nearly an hour but eventually they all settled down enough to go to sleep.

 

It wasn’t exactly the best night of Eponine’s life, maybe, but it wasn’t exactly horrible either.  At least she had gained a reputation as Best Quarters Player for her miraculous double-bounce.