Title: The Montreuil-sur-Mer Community Raffle
Work ID: 51355507
Author: thegreatgaygay
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Modern Era, One Shot, raffle tickets, Dinner, Dinner Date, Silly, valvert - Freeform, MsurM era, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Mayor Madeleine - Freeform
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


MONTREUIL sur MER 
COMMUNITY RAFFLE


ALL PROCEEDS BENEFITING THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

-personal shopping session with the Forest’s Edge Boutique (€250 value)

-bottle of wine from the Golden Bacchus winery (€40 value)

-children’s ride to school in a police car (€28 value)

-free gutter cleaning from Prince Gutters (€300 value)

-librarian for a day (children under 12 only) (€30 value)

-dinner at Leanne’s with Mayor Madeleine (€500 value)

-Fall gift basket from local businesses (€90 value)

-custom cake from Marceline’s Bakery (€175 value)

*€25 per ticket-winner will be notified by phone call-checks should be made payable to Montreuil sur Mer Parent-Teacher Association*

 

Inspector Javert read the list of raffle options, then flipped the paper to make sure nothing more interesting was written on the back. Just as he went to crumple it up and throw it away, he paused. Two of his colleagues were discussing the raffle, and their voices drifted in from the station break room.

“What are you going for?” asked his stupidest colleague, Officer Delatour.

Snickering, his second stupidest colleague, Officer Thibert responded. “Obviously dinner with Madeleine.”

“Why?” laughed Delatour. “I’m going for the wine!”

Javert could virtually hear Thibert rolling her eyes. “Because he’s dreamy,” she said conspiratorially. “And one dinner could very well be the gateway to another, and another, and another…soon enough, I’m Mrs. Mayor Madeleine!”

The two officers dissolved into hysterical laughter. Javert suddenly realized that his hands were curled in fists so tight that his fingernails were digging into his hands. He blinked vigorously several times.

How silly his colleagues were. How foolish! Madeline was not “dreamy”. He was a man! A regular man! And furthermore, he was a fraud, a corrupt magistrate, a treasonous convict. Javert was sure it. He just couldn’t prove anything-yet.

Turning away from the raffle sheet and ignoring the stack of papers he needed to review, Javert flipped on his monitor and pulled up an email from his mentor in Paris. His blood pressure rose as he read it for going on the thirtieth time. Certain lines jumped out to him.


Frivolous investigation…obsession…waste of departmental resources…he’s been nothing but good for that town…official reprimand…


Javert huffed and abruptly turned his computer back off again. So what if Chabouillet thought he was being frivolous with his investigation of the Mayor? The so-called Mayor. That s-called Madeleine. Javert, for one, knew his real name. And it was only a matter of time before the whole world, did too.

Picking up a pencil from his desk, Javert began to gnaw on it. He was beginning to formulate an idea. What if he entered the raffle for dinner with the mayor? What if he won, and was able to get Madeleine alone? What if he was able to confront him in private and get him to make an admission of his guilt? From there, it would be easy to denounce the false mayor and provide evidence of his true identity as parole-breaker Jean Valjean. Then Chabouillet would have no choice but to apologize to Javert and shake his hand and bring him back to Paris with him and Javert could escape the provincial confines of Montreuil sur Mer…

Javert looked the raffle paper over again. Then, he fished around in his desk and retrieved his checkbook.

Madeleine adjusted his tie in the mirror for the millionth time, and checked his watch for the billionth. It was nearly time to leave for his raffle dinner. He’d been opposed to the whole thing from the beginning, of course. Who would want to pay to have dinner with him? Apparently, the president of the PTO had informed him, a lot of people. In fact, the winner had purchased forty whole tickets! They hadn’t told him who had won yet-he was going to find out at the restaurant. As he locked his front door and made his way to the car, a pit began to open in the depth his stomach. He hated this kind of thing, this kind of official event. He hated having to perform, but then again, that was most of his life these days. He drove himself to Leanne’s restaurant in silence. Pulling up to the street nearby, he nearly crashed his car into a concrete pylon. There was a news van, and a camera, and standing in the middle of a group of reporters, looking like he was praying for lightning to strike him down immediately, was Inspector Javert.

Veering his car away from the pylon and feeling like he wanted to vomit, Madeleine did the worst parallel parking job of his life, watched by the glass eyes of the many cameras and by the small crowd.

He stepped out of the car to light applause and the clicking of camera. Madeleine went to stand beside Javert, noting as he did that he had never Javert out of uniform before. Madeleine just barely had time to register this, and to register that he actually didn’t look half bad, before a microphone was shoved nearly all the way into his mouth.

“Mayor Madeleine!” cried the reporter. “Any comment?”

Madeleine pulled at his collar. “A comment...on what?”

The reporters all laughed, sounding like a flock of squawking crows.

“Inspector Javert has personally. Raised one thousand dollars for the PTO!” said one of them.

Javert turned purple and opened his mouth as if to say something, then quickly closed it again.

“Any comment, Inspector?” a third reporter asked.

Javert cleared his throat. “I-uh-I wanted to do a good deed? For the children?”

He glanced quickly at Madeleine who wanted to scream, or laugh, or go running through the crowd until he reached the outskirts of town, never to return.

“Yes,” Madeleine said loudly. “The Inspector is known for his charity, and I’m happy to provide a vehicle for him to do good.”

He nodded at the breathless reporters. “Now, if you’ll excuse us, we’d like to have our dinner now.”

Holding open the door to the restaurant, he followed Javert inside, closing it firmly behind him.

Javert turned to him. “thank you,” he said quietly, sounding as if the phrase pained him to say.

“No problem,” muttered Madeleine. He cleared his throat, hoping his thoughts were not visible on his face. Why had Javert spent a thousand dollars on raffle tickets? And why would the Inspector want to have to dinner with him? Madeleine had always thought that Javert hated him-or worse, suspected him.

Looking over the restaurant, Javert frowned. “I’ve never been here before,” he said. “I was hoping it’d be a bit more…intimate.”

Madeline’s eyes widened. Oh. That was why.

“Yes,” he said awkwardly, “Well, it’s usually a bit less crowded.”

Indeed, it seemed that half the town had gotten word that tonight was the Mayor’s raffle dinner and had gotten seats at Leanne’s to watch the circus.

As the hostess led them to a booth in the back corner, a woman, who Madeleine recognized as another police officer, waved to Javert who glared daggers at her.

“I’m very sorry about all this,” Madeleine continued as they sat down.

“It’s fine,” said Javert gruffly, disappearing behind the menu.

The food at Leanne’s was much richer fair then Madeleine was used to. He selected a soup and a chicken pasta which both felt unlikely to give him indigestion. Javert, shifting uncomfortably in his seat, ordered a salad with goat cheese.

Once the waiter had brought them drinks and gone away again, they settled into uncomfortable silence.

After an indeterminate period of time, during which Madeline considered ripping the cushions of the booth open, burrowing into the stuffing, and not emerging until at least a decade had passed, Javert asked him a question.

“Do you work out much?”

Madeleine caught very much off guard, answered honestly. “A bit. I do some stretching, a bit of weightlifting at home. It’s good to stay fit, at my age.”

Javert narrowed his eyes. “but you’re very strong. Very … muscular.”

Madeline blushed in spite of his deep, late-onset confusion.

“What?”

“Yes,” said Javert, plowing on. “Why, if I got a flat tire, I’m sure you could replace the jack…” He stared at Madeleine significantly.

Madeleine swallowed. Javert had clearly had a major change of heart regarding the mayor. While usually, Javert was very cold and basically rude towards Madeleine, suddenly he seemed to be trying to put the moves on him!

 “I’m sure I don’t know what you mean,” said Madeleine politely.

Javert crossed his arms.

“Right,” he said skeptically. “Well, Monsieur le Maire, I feel as if we don’t know each other very well. You should tell me a little bit about yourself.”

Madeleine fidgeted with the corner of his suit jacket. “There isn’t much to know. I’ve been Mayor for a year and a half, I own the bead factory, I do a lot of charity work-like this-I have a small garden…”

“Nothing of interest before Montreuil-sur-Mer? No…ex-wives, no false identities?”

Madeline paused, reaching for his glass of water. What was Javert getting at?

“Neither,” he said coolly, taking a sip from his glass. “And you?”

Javert cocked his head and went to respond, but their food arrived and for a while they. Were busy eating. Javert carefully picked every bit of goat cheese off his salad and set it aside on the edge of his plate.

“Not a fan of the goat cheese?” Madeleine asked bemusedly.

“I didn’t know goats made cheese,” said Javert. “I’m a city kid. My mother-well, I just didn’t get out much as a kid.”

“I was born in the countryside,” admitted Madeline. “We had goats. They’re hard to milk and they’re smart as anything.”

“I see,” Javert nodded thoughtfully.

They ate for a while longer, though the silence between them was much less awkward than before. It was almost companionable, noted Madeleine, completely shocked. Once they’d moved on from prying, dangerous questions about his personal life, all was well. They discussed the town, and disagreed on all political questions. They discussed business and disagreed on all economic questions. But it was almost fun, Madeleine admitted to himself. He felt, although he certainly couldn’t be honest around Javert, shrewd Inspector that he was, that they were in some way intellectual equals. Two men who came from nothing and who had, in the process of moving up in the world, acquired two very different views on life. Madeleine nearly didn’t regret the raffle. Nearly.

Outside the restaurant, they shook hands.

“Thanks for buying all those tickets, Inspector,” said Madeleine.

“Of course,” Javert said quietly.

Gears were clearly turning in his mind.

Javert tried to say something else, but it seemed that even he wasn’t sure what it was going to be, so he decided on, “…goodnight, Monsieur le Maire.”

And he turned on his heel and stalked off in the opposite direction, hands shoved deep in his pockets.

As he watched Javert go, a strange feeling washed over Madeleine. He couldn’t quite name it. Regret? Longing? Anger? He shook himself, and got into the car, vowing never to participate in another raffle, as long as he lived.

 

On the walk back to his apartment, three thoughts occupied Javert. One, that the mayor would’ve been a nice dining companion had Javert not spent most of the meal interrogating him. He tried to ignore this thought whenever it surfaced.

Two, that Officer Thibert would never let him live this one down.

And three, that he had spent the next three month’s grocery budgets on raffle tickets.

 

 

 