Title: The Supreme Trial
Work ID: 31736224
Author: Esteliel', 'MagicFishHook
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Rivette & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Barricades, Action/Adventure, Rescue Missions, Hurt/Comfort, Paris Era, Javert Lives, 24/7 D/s Relationship, Masturbation, Blow Jobs, Kissing, Recovery, Valjean Riding Javert, Valjean dealing with his issues in the usual way, Javert dealing with an injury as well as you'd expect, Art
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 4/4


Up to that day, Jean Valjean had not been vanquished by trial. He had been subjected to fearful proofs; no violence of bad fortune had been spared him; the ferocity of fate, armed with all vindictiveness and all social scorn, had taken him for her prey and had raged against him. He had accepted every extremity when it had been necessary; he had sacrificed his inviolability as a reformed man, had yielded up his liberty, risked his head, lost everything, suffered everything, and he had remained disinterested and stoical to such a point that he might have been thought to be absent from himself like a martyr. His conscience inured to every assault of destiny, might have appeared to be forever impregnable. Well, any one who had beheld his spiritual self would have been obliged to concede that it weakened at that moment. It was because, of all the tortures which he had undergone in the course of this long inquisition to which destiny had doomed him, this was the most terrible. Never had such pincers seized him hitherto. He felt the mysterious stirring of all his latent sensibilities. He felt the plucking at the strange chord. Alas! the supreme trial, let us say rather, the only trial, is the loss of the beloved being. 


Les Misérables Vol. 4, Book 15, Chapter 1

 

Javert hadn’t slept since Lamarque’s funeral procession had started.

He had contemplated infiltrating the insurgents himself, but had finally listened to Rivette and allowed his second to join the crowds gathered for the procession. Clad in workingmen’s clothes, Rivette was supposed to use the chaos to get close to the insurgents and gather information, which would then be fed back to Javert, who was organizing his men’s response from the safety of the prefecture.

Javert knew he shouldn’t have listened to Rivette.

According to the note one of their spies had sent, Rivette had indeed managed to join one of the cells of insurgency— a group of students responsible for the barricade in the Rue de la Chanvrerie.

There Rivette’s luck had run out, and he’d been unmasked as a police agent and taken prisoner.

Javert stared at the note on his table, pinching his nose.

This mess was his own fault, he thought, despite his fury at how Rivette had botched up the operation. If Javert had gone out himself, as he’d planned, none of this would have happened.

He stood so abruptly that the man at the desk closest to him flinched at the sound of his chair scraping across the floor.

Javert paid him no heed, ignoring another agent who’d jumped up to fetch his coat.

“I’m going to the barricade myself,” he said.

He’d been furious—furious at himself for not having gone instead of Rivette in the first place, furious at Rivette for making him look bad, furious at the insurgents for causing this mess.

Now, finding himself face to face with the chaos of a battle field, Javert hesitated for the first time.

All of a sudden, he was hit by the realization that he had not sent note of his plan to Valjean. Valjean had been on edge all week, old instinct helping him sense the unrest that was boiling beneath the surface of the city. It was an instinct that came from much the same place as Javert’s, after all.

Valjean had been worried, but he knew all too well that Javert would not be questioned. And Javert, who ten years ago would have laughed at anyone who thought him capable of such a thing, had reassured Valjean that he, in his position of chief inspector of the prefecture, had more important tasks to do than join the volatile crowds they’d expected for the procession.

Even now, staring at the barricade that was wreathed in smoke, Javert could see Valjean’s eyes go soft with relief, the hard, pained cast of Valjean’s mouth relaxing. Javert ached for him all of a sudden, in the familiar way that even after ten years seemed to escape all understanding.

With the smell of gun smoke acrid in his nose, Javert thought of the softness of Valjean’s hair and the ease with which Valjean’s strong body would yield to him. He thought of the way he had woken this morning, Valjean’s mouth soft and hot around his cock, and the way Valjean’s eyes had closed when Javert had kissed him before he had left.

He should have sent a note, he thought, then took a deep breath.

Too late now. Perhaps it was for the best. He could tell Valjean the story of how he’d had to rescue Rivette this evening. Valjean would get furious—in that quiet, sullen way that made his eyes burn and Javert harden. Perhaps Valjean wouldn’t relent until Javert had beaten the sullenness out of him.

And then Valjean would be all softness and contrition, and they’d both be relieved that Javert had returned home unharmed. It was something to look forward to.

It was easier to find his way to the insurgents than Javert had feared. There was a small side alley ending by the Corinthe tavern, which the insurgents seemed to use as their headquarters.

Early on, this alley had been cut off by the troops sent to quell the riots. The soldiers guarding this escape were blocking streets further back, out of sight of the barricade. With the support of the commanding officer, this made it easy for Javert to pretend that he was an insurgent trying to sneak past the soldiers. 

In case the insurgents had eyes watching the back alley, the small troop gave a cry of surprise, then came running after Javert, their gun shots aimed carefully above his head.

And so Javert arrived at the barricade in a rain of bullets, out of breath and wet with sweat. As he stumbled around the corner and came to a stop before the tavern, bullets struck the roof above and rained down a shower of wooden splinters upon the small square.

Even with that entrance, his late arrival might have caused suspicion. Fortunately for Javert, the insurgents were distracted by another wave of attack from the troops facing the barricade head-on.

Moments after Javert’s arrival, a volley of shots came flying, striking the barricade and the facade of the tavern. One of the insurgents who seemed to think himself responsible for this new arrival grabbed Javert’s arm and pulled him into the taproom.

“Who the hell are you?” he asked. “And where do you come from?”

“Saint-Merry, comrade,” Javert said, who had come straight from a desk piled with reports on the state of the various barricades in the city.

If there was one thing he knew for certain, it was that no one would leave the Saint-Merry barricade any time soon to reveal his lie.

“Saint-Merry?” the insurgent asked with sudden animation, turning to look at Javert with renewed hope. “And what news do you bring?”

“Don’t expect help,” Javert said. “The situation is bad. It’s likely I’m the last to leave. We were hoping other barricades fared better...”

“No better than you, comrade.” The insurgent laughed tiredly and shook his head. His face was smeared with dust and soot. He rubbed his hand across his eyes before he held it out. “Courfeyrac.”

Javert took note of the name as he grabbed his hand and shook it, committing Courfeyrac’s features to memory.

His skin was a lighter shade of brown than Javert’s, his clothes well-cut despite the stains of battle. His manner of speaking betrayed an expensive education. The son of a white landowner from Saint-Domingue, perhaps, sent to Paris to attend university?

And instead of making use of such a chance, Courfeyrac had chosen to squander it with this senseless rebellion against society and the very order which had allowed him opportunities a man like Javert would never have.

“Are you wounded?” Courfeyrac eyed Javert with sudden worry. “We’re running low on supplies, but—”

Javert shook his head. “All I need is a moment to catch my breath. Some water, if you have it.”

“Enjolras will want to talk to you,” Courfeyrac said and lead him through the anteroom.

Another explosion shook the building. Plaster rained from the walls.

Courfeyrac grimaced. “But he’s busy, as you can hear.”

“No matter,” Javert said. “Give me a few minutes to sit down. Those dragoons were hunting me through half the city. Then, if you have a gun to spare—”

“We’re low on bullets, too,” Courfeyrac said with a hollow smile, then lightly slapped his shoulder. “But not low on courage.”

It was easy enough to trick students like Courfeyrac, just as Javert had suspected.

Years and years of hard work, and still the manner of his speech would never compare to that of a man like Courfeyrac. Still, to pose as a worker came easily enough to Javert. Theirs was a vernacular he was all too familiar with. Javert had taken great care to erase the dialect of the south from his speech, but the ways in which workingmen spoke to each other, the conversation in guard rooms and cheap taverns—those memories were still there, a tool available to him no matter how far he had risen.

It might not have fooled everyone—but it would fool a well-educated student.

“How many of you are left?” Javert asked.

“Enough to hold it for a while.” Courfeyrac stopped and gave him a sudden look. “My friend, I’m afraid you’ve come here only to die.”

Javert shrugged lightly. He had no intention of dying in this place, but of course Courfeyrac could not know that.

“Does it matter whether it’s Saint-Merry or here?” Javert asked instead. “And the city might yet rise. We’ve lit the fuse. We’ll see whether it explodes.”

This time, Courfeyrac laughed in delight.

“A man after my own taste!” He clasped Javert’s arm. “Come then, drink and sit down for a few minutes. In here is where we keep our supplies. Don’t mind the prisoner.”

Courfeyrac’s warning came too late. Javert saw him a heartbeat before Courfeyrac led him into the taproom.

They had tied Rivette to a pole. He must have stood there for a few hours, because he had slumped in his bonds. He looked weary—but there was no blood Javert could see, and when Rivette looked up at the sound of voices, he appeared lucid enough to be able to disguise his surprise at seeing Javert.

Rivette’s eyes followed them as they approached, but he kept quiet.

Good, Javert thought. At least one thing Rivette hadn’t messed up today.

“Who’s that?” he then asked with a nod at Rivette.

“A police spy,” Courfeyrac said. “Someone recognized him. He hasn’t been much trouble so far.”

“Why keep him here? You could exchange him.”

Courfeyrac sighed. “I wish we could, comrade. They aren’t taking prisoners. But he’s not doing any harm in here. He’ll get to live until the final assault.”

Javert had to force his eyes away from Rivette. As furious as he was that Rivette had messed up enough to force him to leave his desk where all reports from agents and spies converged, seeing Rivette tied up like this was enough to stir a certain proprietary protectiveness in him.

Just then, another impact of a cannon ball shook the house in its foundations. Shouts erupted outside, and Courfeyrac pointed hastily towards a corner of the room.

“Drink your fill,” he said, “we have water to spare. Then come find me outside. I’ll see if I can find a rifle and some bullets for you.”

As soon as Courfeyrac had left the room, Javert was by Rivette’s side.

“Sir,” Rivette whispered intently, “you shouldn’t have come. If someone comes in—”

“Shut up, Rivette,” Javert said through clenched teeth, his hands checking the rope that tied Rivette to the pole. “Does the house have an exit out back?”

“No, sir,” Rivette said miserably. “That is, there’s a cellar for storage, but the cellar door opens to the street.”

Javert cursed quietly even as he drew his knife. “No matter. We’ll find some other way out.”

“Wait,” Rivette said again. “If they find us like this, it’ll be too late for you.”

“Do I look like I care? Now shut up. You’ve already messed up enough today.”

Strand by strand, Javert’s knife sawed through the rope. His heartbeat echoed in his ears as he listened to the sounds of battle outside. Any moment, Courfeyrac might return…

There. The rope dropped to the floor. Wincing, Rivette rubbed his wrists, and Javert went to his knees to cut the rope that bound his feet.

Was that a break in the noise of battle outside?

Javert hastened his efforts, and a moment later, Rivette was free.

“What’s the plan, sir?” Rivette whispered.

Javert looked around. He tried to recall the layout of the streets—and the corner from behind which he’d approached the barricade. Even if there was no other exit, they might be able to make their way out through a window, as long as it faced away from where the main action was taking place.

He reached into his shirt and drew forth the small gun he’d hidden on himself.

“We have to find a way out,” he told Rivette. “You don’t want to be here when they storm the barricade.”

The noises outside had quieted. The near-constant volleys of gunshots and the thunder of cannons had stopped. All that remained were single musket shots, fired seemingly at random.

The soldiers had ceased their attack for the moment—which meant that they were quickly running out of time. Any moment now, Courfeyrac might return to see how he fared...

“Quick now,” Javert hissed and pointed. “Any window facing that direction will do.”

“Upstairs,” Rivette whispered back. “We’ll have to jump.”

With a curt nod and a worried look at the window behind them, Javert let Rivette take the lead.

Most of the windows of the first floor faced the barricade. Javert slowed down for a quick glance at the battle field below, and what he saw there showed that his instincts had been correct.

The battle was in its final stage. The silence was one last breather before the final push. Within minutes—perhaps even seconds—the barricade would fall.

And then the insurgents were certain to pile into the tavern as their last defense, which in turn meant that he and Rivette would be trapped in here with them. The insurgents wouldn’t survive the final onslaught—but neither would they, if they allowed themselves to be caught.

A loud boom outside announced that the final moments of the barricade had begun.

As Javert watched, the troops stationed before the barricade began their last assault. The sounds of musket-shot and thundering cannons filled the air, the building shaking in its foundations once more. Time was quickly slipping out of their hands.

“Here, sir,” Rivette cried. “This will do. Help me open it!”

Across the room, a window faced the small alley through which Javert had made his entrance. The window was closed and refused to give as Rivette rattled at it.

Javert shouldered him aside, gritting his teeth as he tried his luck instead—to no avail. The window didn’t budge.

Outside, sudden cries arose. The screams and shouts of battle were suddenly much louder than before. The soldiers had made it past the barricade. Within moments, the insurgents would begin to retreat inside...

Javert covered his hand with his sleeve, tightly gripping the barrel of his gun. Then he raised it and let the pistol come down against the glass with all his might.

The window shattered with a loud, ringing sound. Shards flew everywhere. Although Javert had averted his face, he could feel sharp glass graze his cheek. Blood began to run down his face, wet and warm, but he ignored it.

They’d be very lucky indeed if they made it out of here with only a cut to show for their efforts.

Hastily, Rivette grabbed hold of a splintered piece of wood, assisting Javert in getting rid of the broken glass that was yet sticking to the window frame.

Then the door below flew open with a crash, and their time was up.

“Go,” Javert hissed, grabbing hold of Rivette’s coat and pushing him through the window.

Behind him, he could hear shouts. Javert ignored them as he watched Rivette.

The shouts and screams below grew louder. They hadn’t been spotted yet.

Javert could hear the sounds of someone coming up the stair, but he ignored it as he urged Rivette on, who was now dangling from the windowsill by his hands.

Then Rivette jumped. Javert began to sling one leg over the windowsill himself. His heartbeat echoing in his ears, Javert turned, hands gripping the sides of the window—and found himself face to face with one of the insurgents.

“The prisoner is gone,” someone cried in the tap room below.

The confusion on the face of the insurgent facing him changed to stunned disbelief, and then a calm determination as the man lifted his gun.

Javert had pushed his own gun back into his shirt for the climb out the window.

The moment stretched. It felt as if time stood still as they faced each other. Javert was painfully aware of the fact that he was unarmed, his hands still clutching the window frame. Even if he released the window now and jumped, it would be too late if the man’s gun was loaded.

Then the insurgent’s chin lifted. His short, blond curls were raised by the breeze coming in through the broken glass. He pulled the trigger even as Javert let go of the window.

They were still staring at each other when the bullet hit.

Javert felt a sharp pain—his shoulder, he thought with strange detachment. His shoulder, not his chest. He had been lucky.

Then he fell, a moment of weightlessness that seemed to last forever.

The impact took his breath away. Something cracked with a sickening sound, and he felt a sharp pain in his chest. The back alley was filled by smoke, making it difficult to focus his eyes.

The last thing he saw was Rivette bending over him, eyes wide and panicked. Then everything went dark.

Rivette had jumped first and landed on his feet, immediately stepping backwards to make place for Javert.

He pressed himself against the wall. Only a few meters away, right around the corner, muskets were fired and dying men shouted and screamed.

Their officers had to be aware that the chief inspector himself had entered this battlefield, but in the chaos around them, it was easy to be mistaken for insurgents. They had to leave as quickly as possible if they wanted to make it out alive.

Then Rivette heard the shot—not from around the corner, but from right above him, where Javert had just been about to step out of the window.

Rivette raised his eyes just in time to see Javert fall.

Javert did not land on his feet.

He hit the ground hard with the sound of breaking bones. The sickening crack made Rivette flinch—but worse was the memory of the shot, its echo still reverberating in Rivette’s head.

Without any thought for the battle taking place all around them, Rivette hurled himself forward. His hands shook when he reached out for Javert’s shoulders.

There was blood. The bullet must have hit him in the right shoulder. There, beneath Rivette’s hand, red blood was welling up, staining Javert’s clothes.

“Sir,” Rivette said urgently, restraining the urge to shake Javert—but it was too late.

Javert’s eyes were rolling back in his head. Then his body slackened in Rivette’s arm as he lost consciousness.

Suddenly, Rivette found himself all alone, kneeling in the middle of a small alley that was strangely devoid of men, for all that he could hear the scream and shouts of dying men only a few steps away.

Rivette stared at his shaking hand in disbelief. Blood was still seeping from the wound. Javert’s face looked ashen.

Somewhere above, a volley of gunshots resounded, shaking Rivette from his trance.

Without any thought for the danger he was in, he wrapped his arms around Javert’s chest and began pulling him away.

There was no use asking for help from the soldiers currently involved in a battle for life and death. It was just as likely they’d shoot him if he suddenly appeared in their midst, especially as he was still in his disguise as one of the insurgents.

At least he knew that Javert had come through this small alley. It meant that the cordon of soldiers blocking the streets behind the barricade knew him. Their officers would have assisted Javert in making his way past their lines.

If they were lucky, it meant that they would ask questions first instead of shooting when they saw them appear.

With Javert’s blood hot and wet beneath his hand, Rivette kept dragging Javert through the streets, ignoring his own exhaustion. It felt as if hours passed, but in truth, it didn’t take more than a few minutes until they were hailed by a squadron of soldiers.

“Who goes there?” someone barked at him.

Rivette nearly sobbed with relief when he let go of Javert.

“It’s the chief inspector!” he yelled back. “They shot him. He’s bleeding!”

After that, everything happened very quickly, as soon as the commanding officer was close enough to see that the man in his arms was indeed Chief Inspector Javert.

Behind the lines of soldiers, a field surgeon was taking care of the wounded. He had taken over an empty inn, now filled with wounded men who groaned and thrashed. Within minutes, Rivette found himself kneeling by Javert’s side while the surgeon cut off blood-soaked clothes.

Blood was still welling up from the wound, although the surgeon made a satisfied sound.

“Went right through him,” he said. “Lucky man.”

The surgeon was right. When he turned Javert, Rivette could see an exit wound, from which blood was dripping down Javert’s back.

The surgeon prodded at Javert’s shoulder, then nodded. “Looks good. Seems to have missed the bone. If there is no infection, he’ll be as good as new in a few weeks.”

Relief came crashing over Rivette like a wave.

All of a sudden, he felt how weary he truly was after a full day of captivity. His hands shook as he held Javert propped up while the surgeon began to bandage the wound.

A moment later, the surgeon stopped with a frown, eying Javert’s chest.

Rivette was still shaking from the aftereffects of their flight, but the warm relief that had flooded through him now made way for apprehension once more.

The surgeon muttered something Rivette couldn’t quite make out, then called out sharply for his assistant. Before Rivette even had time to understand what was happening, the man pushed at Javert’s bare chest. A strange bump was visible beneath the skin—and it moved in a sickening way when the surgeon applied pressure.

Then Javert cried out and convulsed, and the surgeon cursed.

“Broken rib,” he said. “Well, he’s not spitting blood. With any luck, there are no internal injuries.”

“What does that mean?” Rivette demanded, watching helplessly as the surgeon’s assistant fed Javert a spoonful of a thick liquid.

“Syrup of poppies,” the surgeon said. “So you can take him home. Get a doctor to see him as quickly as possible.”

A second bandage was wrapped around Javert’s chest, pulled very tight before it was tied off. Then Rivette found himself alone with an unconscious Javert and the exhausted assistant, the surgeon himself already bent over the next man who’d been carried in.

***

As the carriage rattled over cobblestones, Rivette found himself flinching in sympathy every time the carriage shook.

Fortunately the syrup of poppies kept Javert safely asleep. His eyes were closed, his breath shallow but regular. His face was damp with sweat. When Rivette dared to press his hand to his brow, he felt warm.

Was a fever already settling in? Was the wound infected?

Rivette shook the thought off. Certainly infection didn’t move that fast. Still, he couldn’t help but worry.

He had never seen Javert like this. Javert had been wounded before, but it had never been anything worse than a shallow cut.

Now, with the gunshot wound in his shoulder and the broken rib, Javert would be out of commission for several weeks. He’d have to rest in bed to help the rib heal and keep it from piercing a lung.

This also meant that Javert would need help for the foreseeable future. Javert wouldn’t be happy about it—which made it even more important that someone took care of him to prevent him from moving around before his wounds had healed.

Rivette had given the carriage driver Javert’s address, but now was suddenly hit by the realization that he could simply take Javert to his own home. His room wasn’t much to talk about, but there was a bed he’d be happy to give up to Javert. Most importantly, he’d be available to help Javert wash and eat and give him his medicine.

He didn’t think Javert would be grateful. In fact, Javert was certain to hate being dependent on Rivette.

Still, someone had to look after him, and from what Rivette knew about Javert, he did not think he had any family in Paris to help him while he recovered…

Rivette was just about to tell the driver to take them to his own address when he realized that Javert would need clothes, and that—no matter how well-intended—Javert would not be pleased to wake up in Rivette’s bedroom without having been consulted first.

Fortunately the solution was easy: Rivette would stay in Javert’s apartment until Javert was well enough to take care of himself. There was a high chance that as soon as that was the case, he’d throw Rivette out of his rooms, infuriated that Rivette had seen him at his weakest—but he wouldn’t have been alone. That was what mattered.

Even if Javert’s portress might be relied upon to bring him his food and give him his medicine, Rivette knew that he would never be able to abandon Javert to the care of a stranger.

He felt vindicated in his decision when the driver reached the house where Javert lodged and no one answered the door. The portress, it appeared, had gone to the market.

Fortunately, Javert was carrying his keys on him—keys, Rivette was surprised to find out, that did not fit the door to the house, although he was certain that this was the address at which Javert had lived for many years now.

A moment’s exploration brought him to another door, half-hidden around a corner. This door, curiously, had a lock that could be opened with one of Javert’s keys. Beyond, narrow stairs went upward.

All of a sudden, Rivette remembered a conversation from many years ago, when Javert had moved out of the lodging house where both he and Rivette had rented rooms at the time.

Javert had moved into a larger apartment—an apartment situated on the first floor, above a stable. Javert had sounded very pleased when he had told Rivette about the space at his disposal and the separate study.

This was what he was facing now. The stairs led not into the main house, but up to Javert’s apartment, separate from the main building due to its position above the stables.

No wonder that Javert had been delighted by it and disregarded the noise made by shod hooves and carriages. Javert had always been a private man. The privacy of the apartment must have pleased him as much as its size.

Rivette left the door open and returned to the driver. For a generous tip, the man helped him carry Javert inside.

“Careful,” Rivette admonished when they reached the stair. “His ribs are broken.”

Very slowly, they made their way up, moving step by step. Javert was still breathing shallowly, his skin clammy, although the laudanum worked as it should and kept him safely asleep.

Atop the stairs, there was a small landing facing another door. Rivette left Javert in the care of the driver as he took out Javert’s keys once more, listening to the sound of Javert’s rapid breathing as he slid the key into the keyhole and turned it.

The door was well-oiled. It opened easily, without making a sound—and right behind it was a man with shaggy, brown hair, staring Rivette straight in the eye.

Rivette jumped.

After the funeral procession, his day as a captive facing certain death and the subsequent escape that had nearly killed Javert, Rivette was so muddleheaded that his first thought was that he had surprised a burglar in Javert’s apartment.

His hand had already reached for his gun when he remembered that he had no gun on him.

“What are you doing here?” the man demanded. His eyes narrowed dangerously as he stared Rivette down as if he had caught Rivette in an attempt to rob him.

Then his gaze went past Rivette, and all blood fled from his face.

“Javert,” he breathed, taking a step forward with wide eyes.

Only then did he seem to remember Rivette, and he halted, his gaze going back and forth between Rivette and Javert in suspicion.

“Who are you?” he demanded—although Rivette noted that his voice was shaking. “What happened?”

“I was under the impression that these were Javert’s quarters,” Rivette said. “I am Inspector Rivette, of the prefecture of police. Who are you?”

The man’s mouth narrowed, then relaxed again, his lips trembling slightly as he looked past Rivette at Javert.

“This is his apartment,” he said quietly. “Please. Come inside.”

The apartment was indeed large—twice as large as Rivette’s own rooms. It was kept in impeccable order, as was to be expected of Javert. Through an open door Rivette saw a glimpse of Javert’s study and a large, sturdy desk, covered by meticulously arranged letters and papers.

The stranger opened a different door and led them into Javert’s bedroom.

The room itself was simple, although the bed was large and made of quality wood, the only concession to décor a headboard of wrought iron. A window stood open, allowing in a breeze and the distant clatter of hooves.

The man hovered, watching anxiously as Rivette and the driver placed Javert down onto the bed.

After Rivette had paid the driver, he turned towards the man once more and held out his hand. 

“You are the porter, I assume?” he asked.

It was the most likely explanation, after all, accounting for why no one had opened the door, and why the man was here in the first place. The porter would have a key and see to errands like delivering wood or water while Javert was out.

In answer to his question, the man flinched as if Rivette had slapped him and took a step backward.

“No,” he said, then fell silent.

Rivette’s instincts stirred. A suspect contemplating whether he could get away with a lie?

“No,” the man then said again, his eyes still narrow with suspicion as they rested on Rivette. “My name is Ultime Fauchelevent. I work for him.”

“Ah,” Rivette said with a small, noncommittal smile. “He never mentioned you.”

Another, almost imperceptible flinch. Curious indeed.

Instincts honed through years of work told Rivette that something was not as it should be. Why was the man so nervous? Why had Javert never mentioned him, if Fauchelevent spoke the truth? And for what reason would Javert employ a man in his own apartment? Surely the portress would see to his cooking and cleaning, and a washerwoman would take care of his clothes.

If there was one thing Rivette was certain of, it was that Javert would not spend money on a clerk to write his letters for him in his own home. Javert barely trusted Rivette to do his paperwork to his standards.

“I am his groom,” Fauchelevent said. “Sir.”

“Ah,” Rivette said, still smiling. “He did mention his horses. But are they not kept in the fire horses’ barracks, by the prefecture?”

What are you  doing here, in his apartment? He did not ask it out loud, but they both knew that this was the real question.

The man’s nostrils flared. There was a touch of danger to him, a hint of violence. For all that he claimed to work for Javert, there were moments when the sight of this broad-shouldered man towering before him, eyes burning dangerously, made Rivette think of tavern fights, of violent suspects barely restrained by handcuffs.

Then the stranger before him exhaled and seemed to visibly deflate.

“That is true,” Fauchelevent said. “I take care of the fire horses—and Monsieur Javert’s own horses. I lodge here with him.”

Ah, a lodger. That made a little more sense. Javert was a frugal man, and Rivette could see how it would appeal to him to have his own personal groom to take care of his horses, for the small cost of giving up a spare room.

Still, Rivette was unsettled by the thought that all these years, this stranger had been living with Javert. It was likely that Javert would have seen no need to talk to Rivette about a groom. Still, if Javert had a spare room to rent out, Rivette would have been happy to rent from him...

“I hope I am not keeping you from your work?” Rivette asked, giving the man a polite opportunity to leave.

Instead, Fauchelevent stared at him from dazed, wounded eyes. “What happened?” he asked again, his voice shaking.

Strange, Rivette thought, that a man who rented from the chief of police should be so shocked to see him come home wounded…

Fauchelevent did not seem at all like a mere lodger.

“He was shot,” Rivette said. “And broke his ribs when he fell from a window.”

Fauchelevent of him shuddered, his mouth surrounded by deep, pained lines.

“A surgeon bandaged his wounds. Laudanum is keeping him asleep right now, but he needs a doctor as quickly as possible. I will take care of him—”

Fauchelevent had already turned away from him. “I will send for the doctor,” he said, then flinched at Rivette’s words and turned again to face him.

Rivette gave him another calming smile. “Please don’t worry. I will sit with him all day.”

He could see Fauchelevent’s throat move, his eyes still wide and dazed. Then Fauchelevent swallowed heavily, as if he had prepared to say something but decided otherwise.

“That is kind of you,” he said, “but there’s no need. As I said, I work for him. You must have work waiting for you at the prefecture.”

“Fetch the doctor first,” Rivette said, who did not like where the conversation was going.

The man did not behave at all like a mere lodger. Instead, he acted as if Rivette had brought a close friend back to him half-dead. And if there was something Rivette was certain of, it was that Javert had no such friend—at least no friend closer to him than Rivette himself.

With another fearful glance at Javert, Fauchelevent nodded shakily. A moment later, he was gone. Rivette could hear the sound of his steps as he hastened down the stairs.

Rivette took a deep breath, then sat down on the side of the bed to bend over Javert.

Javert was still breathing shallowly. His forehead was beaded with sweat. The laudanum kept him safely asleep, but even so his sleep did not appear untroubled.

Rivette stood and stepped towards the window. Before it, a wash basin stood on its stand. A ball of soap gave off a familiar, faint scent of lavender that said Javert.

Rivette took hold of the cloth that hung next to it and dipped it into the water. Then he returned to Javert’s side and used it to wipe the sweat from his brow.

A moment later, the sound of steps could be heard once more. Rivette frowned slightly. He had hoped Fauchelevent would fetch the doctor himself—the presence of the man unsettled him, although he couldn’t say why.

Even if Fauchelevent’s story proved true, he didn’t seem to fit into the life of the Javert Rivette knew. Worse, Fauchelevent seemed just as unsettled by Rivette’s presence in Javert’s rooms, whereas surely it should be no surprise to any lodger that one of Javert’s agents would return the chief inspector to his home and see to his comfort?

Rivette had a good reason to care for Javert. He was Javert’s second-in-command; they had been friends for nearly ten years now.

Who was this strange groom who looked at him as if Rivette had broken into his apartment?

That was the real crux of the matter, Rivette thought. This lodger moved through Javert’s apartment as if it was his own. He didn’t behave at all like a poor lodger who’d rented a small room from Javert and did his utmost to stay out of Javert’s way to keep from arousing his ire.

Rivette’s eyes traveled through the room, making use of this rare opportunity to see a part of Javert he had always kept private.

The furnishing was sparse but sturdy, made of quality wood. The room was neat and tidy, which did not surprise Rivette.

What did surprise Rivette was a glimpse of bright color—red silk, embroidered with gold. A fashionable dressing gown in an oriental pattern of golden birds and flowers was carefully hung over a chair as if to await Javert’s return in the evening.

Rivette stared at it, an image arising unbidden in his mind—Javert, coming home late in the evening, washing at the stand by the window, then pulling on the silken dressing gown...

Flushing, Rivette averted his eyes. To distract himself, he continued to look around the room, his eyes finally settling on a shirt that appeared to have been laid out to be mended.

It was a shirt of cheap, white cotton, soft from use, and not at all the sort of shirt Javert would wear to work. Javert’s wardrobe was not what could be called extravagant, but the shirts, cravats and jackets he wore were always carefully selected, meticulously clean, and in a fashionable cut.

Javert was a fastidious man—extraordinarily so, perhaps, given his occupation. He would not be seen dead in a workingman’s shirt, especially one that had been worn until the hem frayed and was in need of mending. Furthermore, the shirt looked far too large for Javert’s elegant build.

Rivette frowned anew when he thought of Fauchelevent’s broad shoulders and strong arms. Why would Fauchelevent’s shirt be in Javert’s bedroom?

Then Rivette relaxed with sudden relief when his gaze fell upon Javert once more.

Javert had dressed as a workingman to infiltrate the barricade. No doubt he had used some of his lodger’s worn clothes to perfect his disguise. This shirt must have been an item Javert had discarded when choosing his outfit.

Rivette’s gaze had only just returned to Javert once more when Fauchelevent entered the bedroom.

Again he froze when he saw Rivette sitting by Javert’s side, the damp cloth in Rivette’s hand still pressed to Javert’s brow.

“Did you find a doctor?” Rivette said. “The surgeon said the bandages will have to be sewn in place, to keep them tight enough that his ribs can heal.”

Fauchelevent swallowed, his eyes unreadable as he stared at Rivette, although lines had appeared between his brows.

Was the man angry to be used as a messenger by Rivette?

Rivette had tried to send him on his way several times. If the man objected to being kept from his work, then why did he not leave?

“I sent for him,” Fauchelevent said. “I told him to make haste.”

“Thank you,” Rivette said, then added pointedly, “I didn’t intend to keep you from your work. Let me assure you, Javert will be in the best hands.”

Fauchelevent gazed at him, his expression changing between emotions Rivette found it difficult to make sense of.

Anger, Rivette thought. Anger—and fear. If he didn’t know better, he would have said that Fauchelevent was furiously annoyed by Rivette’s presence. And yet there was no possible reason that Rivette could think of.

After a moment, Fauchelevent pressed his lips together, his eyes cold. Then his gaze wandered over towards Javert, and Rivette could see the play of emotions on his face as Fauchelevent seemed to fall apart once more: his narrowed lips parting, his eyes widening, the lines around his mouth deepening.

Fauchelevent took a deep breath. His shoulders hunched, and he ignored Rivette to approach the bed from the other side.

Rivette felt instinctively annoyed by the way the stranger moved as if he was at home in Javert’s apartment. A man as fiercely private and independent as Javert—how would he feel to find his lodger in his bedroom, witness to his weakness?

Fauchelevent ignored the look Rivette gave him as he stood by Javert’s side, gazing down at him.

“Tell me what happened,” Fauchelevent said—and again Rivette thought he could hear his voice shake. “How did he get shot? I know he was to stay at the prefecture. He said he was needed there, to be able to respond to all reports coming in...”

His voice trailed off, and once more Rivette felt annoyance rise inside him. Who was this man to know so much about the prefecture’s response to the riots? Impossible that Javert would have shared such vital information with a stable hand from the fire barracks.

Was Fauchelevent a spy who’d made his way into Javert’s household under false pretenses? Or had he snooped through Javert’s papers when Javert was at work?

And yet, Javert was a suspicious man. It seemed impossible that he would allow a criminal so close.

“I was taken prisoner,” Rivette admitted after a moment. “He came to the barricade to rescue me. One of the insurgents shot him, just when he was climbing out of the window to make his escape. The bullet hit him in the shoulder, and he hurt himself in the fall. The surgeon thinks that he broke a rib.”

Fauchelevent looked shaken. His arm twitched, as if he wanted to reach out.

He looked utterly miserable—so miserable that Rivette knew his theory couldn’t be true. No spy would be so concerned for Javert’s well-being.

And yet, Rivette knew from long acquaintance that Javert could not be an easy man to live with. What stable hand would be so shaken by an employer’s illness?

Did he fear that he might lose his work if Javert was unable to make use of his horses for a while?

None of it made any sense.

“The surgeon said he was lucky,” Rivette added. “The bullet went right through him and missed the bone. But the broken rib...”

Fauchelevent remained silent. It was as if Rivette wasn’t even there. Fauchelevent stood staring at Javert, shoulders slumped and his eyes burning with a strange intensity.

Rivette couldn’t help but feel unsettled.

He’d spent a day as a prisoner, facing certain death. Then there had been the escape, and Javert was shot. Rivette had assumed that he’d take Javert to his apartment and wait for what the doctor said—and then, at last, he’d be able to relax, with Javert safe in his care.

Instead, as soon as he’d walked into Javert’s apartment, nothing was as it should have been.

They waited in silence, both staring at Javert. Fortunately, it didn’t take long until the doctor arrived. Rivette’s suspicion eased a little when it turned out that the man knew not only Javert, but was also acquainted with Fauchelevent. It seemed that Fauchelevent had not lied to him.

The doctor had no high opinion of military surgeons and spent much of his initial assessment of Javert muttering about their various failings—although, when he was finished, he came to the same conclusion.

“I have cleaned the wound,” he said. “He is lucky that the bullet went straight through. I will leave you a chloruretted lotion for it. Change the bandages every day, and call me if it gets infected.”

“And his ribs?” Fauchelevent demanded.

Rivette was taken aback once more when he realized that the doctor had addressed his advice to Fauchelevent and not to him, as if it was only natural that Fauchelevent should be the one to take care of Javert.

“At least one rib is broken. His chest will need to be bandaged tightly—in a moment, you will help me hold him up. I will have to sew the bandages together so they stay in place.”

“Will I need to change them as well?” Fauchelevent asked, and the doctor shook his head.

“His chest will have to be bandaged for a month. In two weeks, I might change them myself. No need to trouble with them otherwise.”

Fauchelevent nodded.

The doctor took a small bottle of dark glass from his bag and handed it to Fauchelevent. “Laudanum. Keep him dosed for a week. He’ll be in too much pain otherwise, and he needs to lie still. Broken ribs can do terrible things to the lungs if you’re not careful.”

Fauchelevent swallowed and nodded.

The doctor glanced back down at Javert. “He won’t be pleased, I think, having to remain in bed. I will come see him in a week. Call for me if he worsens.”

Rivette watched, feeling utterly useless as Fauchelevent held Javert carefully propped up. The doctor wound bandages around Javert’s chest, tightening them until he was content at last, then sewing them together instead of merely fastening them.

All of a sudden, Rivette felt like an interloper—when it was he, not Fauchelevent, who had dragged a bleeding Javert through the streets.

The surreal sensation continued when he saw Fauchelevent reach into Javert’s nightstand as if that was an everyday act, drawing out Javert’s money to pay the doctor.

As Fauchelevent accompanied the doctor back to the door, Rivette stepped closer to the bed.

Javert was sleeping quietly, deep in a drugged slumber. The shallow cut on his cheek was no longer bleeding. His breath was coming regularly.

Rivette reached out, hesitating for a moment before he allowed his fingers to gently graze Javert’s brow.

“You saved my life today, sir,” he whispered. “Thank you.”

It was true that he would have done the same for Javert without a moment’s hesitation.

Still. Javert was a man who kept his feelings close to his chest. To know that even if Rivette messed up, Javert would come to his side to rescue him disregarding the danger—that meant a lot.

With a deep breath, Rivette stood. He could still hear the low murmur of voices.

There had been no time to think since the moment Javert had first appeared in the tap room, accompanied by one of the insurgents. Now, at last, exhaustion caught up with Rivette, and he felt himself suddenly at loose ends.

He’d planned to stay by Javert’s side to care for him, to sleep here in his apartment tonight—but now he was no longer needed.

“If you would like, I can stay with him if you have work to do elsewhere,” Rivette told Fauchelevent when the man returned moments later.

Fauchelevent eyed him—still strangely reticent. Had he been a suspect in a crime, Rivette would have sworn that he had something to hide.

Now, slowly, pieces began to fall into place in Rivette’s mind.

“That won’t be necessary.” Fauchelevent’s eyes were ablaze once more. Then, visible restraining himself, he added in a calmer voice, “Thank you for the offer. And thank you for bringing him home. But you look as if you’re in need of a bed yourself. You should go home and rest. I promise he will be well cared for.”

Rivette’s gaze went back to Javert. Then he nodded slowly.

“I will visit tomorrow,” he said. He didn’t add, If I may. “Please feel free to reach out to me if he needs anything.”

He wrote down his address on a piece of paper. Fauchelevent took it and glanced at it, then slipped it into his pocket.

There was the shirt in Javert’s bedroom, waiting to be mended, too large to fit Javert. There was the change in Javert several years ago—not long after he’d been made chief inspector. It had been close to the time Javert had acquired his horses. He had seemed—happier, as strange a concept as that was to associate with the chief inspector.

And, Rivette realized at last as he went down the stairs, he’d seen all of Javert’s small apartment today: the larger room with the dining table, the small study with its desk and papers—and Javert’s bedroom.

There had been no second bedroom for Fauchelevent.

The man was no lodger at all.

As soon as the door fell shut behind Rivette, Valjean’s tenuous control crumbled at last.

His knees gave out. He dropped to the floor next to the bed, his hands shaking as he reached out for Javert. Something roared inside his ears like an approaching flood.

Javert’s hand felt small in his own, the elegant fingers that knew how to bring such exquisite torment and such exquisite pleasure limp in his grip.

Valjean sobbed once, then bit back the sound, terrified that Rivette might hear and return once more to usurp Valjean’s rightful place.

Fury rose within him at the thought, sharp and tinged with bitterness. Who did Rivette think he was to try and dismiss Valjean like a servant from his own home?

Then despair pulled him under once more. All he could see was Javert’s face, strangely vulnerable in his sleep, devoid of all the fierce emotion and the iron control that made Javert who he was.

Slowly, Valjean slumped against the bed as the reality of what had happened caught up with him at last. He raised Javert’s hand and pressed a kiss to the center of his palm, soothed a little by the warmth of his skin.

They’d come so close—too close to a catastrophe he dared not imagine.

What if Javert had died? Who would have thought to tell Valjean?

Javert might have bled out there on the streets of Paris, and Valjean might have never known…

And what if Javert’s injuries had been so bad that they would have had to take him to a hospital—when would Valjean have known? How many sleepless nights until he’d dare to approach the prefecture to ask after Javert?

“If he comes back tomorrow, I’ll shut the door in his face,” he muttered, furious at the memory once more. How dare this Rivette behave as if this apartment was his own—as if Javert was his?

Then there was the sound of steps on the stairs once more, and Valjean hastily let go of Javert’s hand, wiping at his eyes.

Instinctive terror rose inside him, although there was no reason for it. Even if Rivette disliked him, Valjean had false papers under the name Fauchelevent, and any man in the fire barracks would confirm his story. Furthermore, Rivette had never been to Montreuil-sur-Mer. He had never seen Valjean, and no reason at all to suspect that Javert’s groom was in truth an indentured servant living in Paris

Even if that truth were to come out somehow, Robert was still mayor of Montreuil, and thus in control of Valjean’s whereabouts. Valjean had a letter to prove it.

It might mean an end to his work with the fire horses, perhaps—but no matter what, Valjean would not be returned to the prison hulks.

He was as safe as he could be, Javert had made certain of that. Nevertheless, Valjean’s heart was beating in his throat when he went to answer the door.

Instead of Rivette, their portress awaited him. Word had spread fast, whether from the doctor or from curious eyes watching Javert being carried inside. In either case, unlike Rivette, she had not come to steal Valjean’s time or annoy him, but to bring him a pot of stewed rabbit.

“Is he going to be all right, do you think?” she asked worriedly. “Is there anything we can do for you? If you need something fetched, or some broth for him—or lint—”

“Lint would be wonderful,” Valjean said, who had just been prepared to brush her off. He forced himself to give her a small smile. “I have to change his bandages every day.”

“Don’t you worry, my dear,” she said and pushed the pot towards him. “I will prepare you a basket right away.”

“Thank you,” Valjean said softly. “That will be very helpful.”

She smiled at him and touched his hand with her own.

Valjean often did small favors for her—chopping firewood, doing little repairs, or carrying something heavy—which her husband with his bad leg could no longer do as easily. In turn, the woman, who had initially been reluctant about renting to a policeman, had rapidly changed her mind about her lodgers. Often, Valjean would find an extra penny roll sneaked into the breakfast she brought them.

With a benevolent possessiveness, she watched over Valjean as if afraid that any day her nemesis, the principal lodger of the neighboring house, might charm Valjean away from her.

Javert, in turn, had been wryly amused by the development—and not displeased at all by the sight of Valjean chopping wood in his shirtsleeves in the backyard.

The memory of Javert’s eyes watching him and his pleased little smile brought a new wave of despair with it. Once the portress had left, Valjean mechanically forced himself to eat a little, then spent the remainder of the afternoon sitting by Javert’s side.

Javert slept quietly. He did not stir, even when Valjean warmed some water and began to wash him carefully. The surgeon who had first seen to Javert had cut off his jacket and shirt; now Valjean finished undressing him, wiping the grime of battle from his skin with the help of a damp cloth and Javert’s fine Marseille soap.

The task was soothing. Feeling Javert’s warm, firm limbs beneath his hands was reassuring: Javert was alive and here with him. And had Javert not always defied all odds? Javert faced life like a cliff of granite facing the ocean. He would survive gunshots and broken ribs by sheer force of will alone, Valjean was certain of it.

Even so, by the time the afternoon turned to evening and Valjean had to light a candle, the silence of the room usually filled by Javert’s presence became hard to bear.

Valjean could think of nothing to occupy his time. He had tried to read, but found that it was impossible to make sense of the words on the paper. At last, he put the book away and sat down by Javert’s side once more, watching him.

Javert’s sleep seemed lighter now. Every now and then, his lips tensed, his eyelids twitched, or his brow furrowed. Once he woke, he could have food, if he felt up to it, and then another dose of laudanum to let him sleep through the night.

And then... Valjean couldn’t think of what was to come next. Tomorrow, he should send a note to Fantine. And Rivette had threatened a return.

The mere thought of Rivette striding into his home and acting as if he had a right to be here was enough to send a new wave of anger through Valjean, followed just as quickly by terror. If Rivette had not brought Javert home...

His fingers shook as he reached out, smoothing his fingertips along the line of Javert’s beard.

Javert’s skin was warm and damp. His lips parted slightly at the touch, but his eyes remained closed.

Valjean exhaled, ignoring the burning of his eyes as he reached out to take Javert’s hand instead, raising it to press it to his cheek.

If Javert had died there at the barricade... The thought was too monstrous to contemplate.

After all these years spent together in Javert’s apartment, Valjean could no longer imagine any other life for himself.

There was the small farm Javert had forced him to buy so that Valjean would have a safe place in case something should happen. It was a beautiful place, and Valjean enjoyed the days they’d spend there together in the summer every now and then. But without Javert, what need did Valjean have for safety?

If Javert were to die here, they might just as well take him back to the prison hulks.

Fantine no longer needed Valjean’s help. Cosette had married earlier in the year. Robert was still mayor of Montreuil and well-beloved.

They didn’t need him. He’d surrendered himself to Javert fully that day when he’d knelt on the pavement before this house in the pouring rain. Without Javert, there was nothing.

Didn’t Javert know that without him, it would no longer make a difference to Valjean whether he was free or in chains?

Tears ran down Valjean’s face, but he didn’t bother wiping them away. He kept Javert’s hand pressed against his cheek, crying silently in the darkening room until at long last, Javert’s fingers twitched against his cheek.

“Don’t cry,” Javert murmured, his voice hoarse and dazed. “I hate it when you cry.”

Valjean found himself laughing through his tears.

“That’s the laudanum,” he said tenderly. “You love it when I cry.”

His fingers trembling, Valjean turned his head and pressed a loving kiss to the center of Javert’s palm.

Weakly, Javert’s fingers moved against his skin, trying to brush away his tears.

“What happened?” Javert said. “I remember... the insurgent. He had a pistol—”

“You were shot in the shoulder. And then you fell out of a window and broke a rib. The doctor was here earlier. You’ll have to stay in bed for a while.”

Javert’s brow furrowed again. No doubt the laudanum did its part to make it difficult to think.

“I don’t like being in bed when there’s work to do,” Javert muttered.

Another smile tugged on Valjean’s lips.

“I know that, sir,” he whispered, then bent forward to brush his lips against Javert’s cheek. He took a deep breath, inhaling the familiar scent of Javert until he felt calmer.

Javert did not remain awake for long. Valjean could convince him to accept a few bites of bread soaked in milk, then fed him a spoonful of brandy with a few drops of laudanum in it.

Soon, Javert was deeply asleep once more, and Valjean undressed and washed himself before he joined Javert in bed.

He curled himself against him, careful not to touch Javert’s chest, but close enough that he could breathe in his scent and feel the reassuring warmth of his body.

Even so, it took a long time until sleep came to Valjean.

***

The week passed slowly. Valjean had been tempted to refuse Rivette entry when he came to visit, but then realized that Rivette was useful in that there would be no need for Valjean himself to pass on messages to and from the prefecture.

Fantine came to visit as well with Cosette, who looked shaken when she watched Javert sleep. The students at the barricade, it turned out, had been friends of her husband.

“To think that Marius, too, could be lying in bed now just like that...” Cosette fell silent for a moment, then sat down by Javert’s bedside and took his hand. “He thinks he’s keeping it all secret from me, but I know they all died there. And he feels guilty that he’s still alive. That he wasn’t there; that he didn’t help.”

“He knew he had a responsibility,” Fantine said. “I wouldn’t have agreed to the marriage if he wasn’t aware of that.”

“I feel sad for all those dead young men,” Cosette said softly. “And I feel sad for Monsieur Javert. Isn’t that strange?”

“No,” Valjean said hoarsely. “I don’t think that’s strange at all.”

***

The week passed slowly. Valjean remained by Javert’s bedside night and day. During Javert’s moments of wakefulness in between doses of laudanum, Valjean fed him bread and broth and sips of water. By the end of the week, the doctor returned and appeared pleased with Javert’s progress.

“No infection,” he said. “That is what is most important. The rib will take more time to heal. But from now on, you can try to lower the doses of laudanum. Give him enough at night that he can sleep without pain. During the day, give him as much as he needs—but it is important that he remains still. If he cannot do that, you will have to raise his dose again.”

After a week during which the apartment had been uncharacteristically quiet, Javert’s first stirrings later that afternoon seemed a hopeful sign of things returning to normal.

Before, Valjean would have helped Javert to eat and drink a little before administering another dose of laudanum. Today, all he gave Javert was a single drop of the bitter tincture in a spoon of brandy to keep the pain at bay.

It was a relief to feel Javert’s eyes on him when he brought in a bowl of broth a little later.

“How do you feel?” Valjean set down the bowl to smooth his hand over Javert’s forehead instead. “Tell me when you’re in pain.”

Javert’s brow furrowed as he gazed up at Valjean. “How long have I slept?” he asked.

“It’s been a week since you were shot. The doctor was in today. You’re healing well—but you’re still not allowed to move much.”

With a frown, Javert looked down at the bandages covering his chest and shoulder. “What happened?”

“You broke a rib. Fantine and Cosette have been by to see you.” Valjean hesitated a moment. “And Rivette. He’ll probably come by again soon. He knew the doctor would return today.”

Valjean tried to keep his voice carefully neutral, although he loathed the thought of Rivette encroaching on his bedroom and acting as if Javert’s attention belonged to him.

“Rivette,” Javert murmured, then smiled. “Ha. So he made it out?”

“You rescued him,” Valjean said. He didn’t add, You went to the barricade when you’d told me you’d be nowhere near the danger! “After you lost consciousness, he dragged you back to where the army was waiting.”

“The last thing I remember is that insurgent aiming at me.” Javert shuddered. “I can still see his face—”

“All barricades have fallen,” Valjean said softly. “That’s all over now.”

Javert was quiet for a moment, as if to take in the news, then nodded lightly.

“Have a message sent to Rivette,” he said. “I expect him to arrive with a full report on everything that has been going on in my absence.”

Valjean let his hand sink.

“Sir,” he said, respectfully but firmly. “You are to rest.”

“Nonsense,” Javert muttered. “I’ve rested long enough. A whole week of sleep—who knows what chaos Rivette has caused in the meantime. A week of absence—”

Javert broke off. He tried to push himself up with his good arm before Valjean could interfere, only to flinch and collapse back onto the bed.

“Lie still,” Valjean said, his fear for Javert making the words burst out with force. “Think of your broken rib!”

He knew very well how much Javert hated taking orders—especially from Valjean. But for once, Javert did not lash out in fury at Valjean’s show of disrespect. It was a worrying sign that his movements had indeed been painful—and all the more reason for Valjean to diligently follow the doctor’s orders.

With his eyes half-closed, Javert’s head once more sank into the pillow, his breath coming quickly. His brow was beaded with sweat, his body tense with pain.

“I know you don’t like this,” Valjean said more quietly, swallowing against the fear caused by seeing Javert suffer, “but it’s the only way. If you want to return to the prefecture, and soon, you will have to do what the doctor says.”

Javert remained silent for a long moment, his teeth clenched. Finally, with obvious reluctance, he relaxed.

“Very well,” he said ungratefully. “But have a message sent to the prefecture regardless. I want to be informed of anything of importance.”

“As you want, sir,” Valjean said.

Javert exhaled. After a moment, he turned his head and looked at Valjean. “After, come back and read to me. I know you’ll like that. And I’ve missed the sound of your voice.”

Out of nowhere, Valjean felt tears rise to his eyes once more. He tried to blink them away, but it was no use. Instead, he took hold of Javert’s hand and pressed his lips to it.

“And I’ve missed you, sir.”

***

The next day, Javert seemed to be in a much improved mood. Valjean gave him enough laudanum to dull the pain, but not enough to send him back to sleep. Javert ate with real appetite for the first time, and when Rivette appeared, Valjean forced himself not to hover and fled into Javert’s study with a book he could not focus on.

Valjean could not make out what was said, but he could hear their voices. The presence of Rivette in his bedroom still set his nerves on edge. This space had only ever belonged to him and Javert, with rare visits of Fantine and Cosette. Now Rivette had intruded upon it and made Valjean feel like a stranger in his own home.

Still, it was reassuring to hear the familiar, demanding tone Javert took with Rivette—no doubt handing out sharp orders and rebukes for everything that had been mismanaged during his absence.

Valjean smiled with grim contentment. No matter who Rivette believed he was to Javert, at least Javert didn’t have to take that tone with Valjean. It appeared that Valjean was far better at doing his job to Javert’s satisfaction.

When Rivette finally left an hour later, he looked Valjean up and down in a way that made Valjean’s hair stand on end—although at least this time, Rivette did not suggest that he move into Valjean’s own home to take care of Javert.

“He looks much better,” Rivette said instead with a smile. “You’ve clearly taken good care of him.”

Valjean suppressed the urge to slam the door in his face.

“It will take a while for the rib to mend,” he said instead. “Don’t expect him back anytime soon, no matter what he tells you.”

Rivette laughed. “A break will do him good. I wish you luck in trying to enforce it.”

With that, Rivette was gone, and it took a few moments until Valjean realized that Rivette had completely changed his tune. From addressing Valjean as the porter and trying to persuade him to leave his own apartment behind, Rivette had switched to treating Valjean as if he were someone with influence over Javert.

Had Javert said something to Rivette?

Valjean glanced towards the bedroom with sudden worry. Had Javert said something he didn’t intend while under the influence of the laudanum?

But when he returned to the bedroom, Javert appeared wide awake and in a much better mood, for all that he spent the following hour muttering darkly about the failings of Martel, Poulin and Rivette himself.

That evening, Javert watched with dark, satisfied eyes when Valjean pulled off his shirt and washed himself. When Valjean slipped into bed next to him, the window open to let in the cool night air after the day’s heat, Javert exhaled and reached out with his good arm, his fingers twining into Valjean’s hair.

“Do you want me to read to you, sir?” Valjean said.

Javert shook his head. “I want you to kiss me.”

Valjean smiled. He leaned in, and as his mouth brushed against Javert’s, he thought abruptly of that first time he had kissed Javert, wary and ashamed. Now, when he slid his tongue into Javert’s mouth, he felt hungry for him like never before, moaning without shame at the familiar sensation.

He was starved for it: the heat and the wetness of Javert’s tongue, the taste of him, Javert’s lips soft against his own while his beard scratched against his cheeks. Valjean wanted to drown in him, to never let go—and Javert’s hand tightened in his hair, keeping him in place.

For the first time in a week, Javert was his old, demanding self, and Valjean gladly surrendered himself to it.

When Javert let him draw back at last, Valjean’s lips were swollen. In the light of the moon, a string of saliva glistened between their lips, and Valjean’s hunger and despair increased a hundredfold.

With a groan, Valjean bent down again, kissing Javert as if his life depended on it. Tears rose to his eyes once more when Javert’s tongue pushed hungrily into his mouth. For a moment, Valjean forgot everything but the need to let Javert undo him, to pull him apart and remake him.

Eventually, Javert withdrew with a little groan, and Valjean’s hunger turned to fear when he remembered that Javert was still wounded.

“Are you in pain?” he asked worriedly. “Shall I—”

“It’s that damn bandage,” Javert said, panting for breath. “Can’t breathe in the cursed thing. It’s too tight!”

“You know why that is, sir,” Valjean said as a wave of relief washed away the terror. “Your ribs aren’t allowed to move.”

Javert scoffed, but at least didn’t argue with Valjean. His lips gleamed invitingly in the silver moonlight, wet with saliva and swollen from kisses. Valjean couldn’t resist leaning down once more, gently drawing Javert’s bottom lip into his mouth.

“Soon, sir,” he whispered when he drew back. “Just a little more patience.”

Javert exhaled a small laugh, and Valjean found himself smiling back. Javert had never been a patient man—and was that not part of the sharp attraction that had drawn him to Javert even when he’d hated himself for it?

Javert was not a man of compromise. When Javert gave an order, he wanted it to be followed instantly, without protest. That severity was something to depend on. There was no one else like Javert. No other man knew how to drive Valjean to tearful fury—and how to give him peace.

“Do something for me,” Javert said. The corners of his mouth rose into a small smile.

Valjean gave him a questioning look.

Javert used his right hand to pull away the blanket, baring their naked bodies to the moonlight. Then he took hold of Valjean’s hand and slowly moved it downward until Valjean could feel the heat of his own cock.

Javert’s smile widened as he closed Valjean’s fingers around it.

“I want to watch you,” he said.

Valjean swallowed at the sharp ache of need throbbing in his hand. Until now, he’d been content to ignore it for the pleasure of being able to kiss Javert after a week of constant worry.

“I prefer your touch, sir,” he said hoarsely.

Javert gave him a pleased little laugh.

“I believe that. But you’ll still do as I say.”

Valjean had to swallow again before he nodded. He moved back a little, then shifted to his knees to make certain that Javert could see him.

From the open window, a gentle breeze brushed against his skin. Earlier, the joy of kissing Javert, of breathing him and tasting him and being close to him in a way he hadn’t been for a week had been too overwhelming to think of anything but Javert’s closeness.

Now, with his fingers wrapped around his own cock and Javert’s eyes on him, Valjean could feel the ache of his body. After a week of worry for Javert, arousal made him tremble with unexpected force .

Valjean kept his eyes on Javert, taking in the sight of him. With the blanket pushed down, Javert’s body was bared to his gaze as well. The bandages shone in the moonlight. Valjean ignored them, heartened by the familiar expression on Javert’s face.

There might not have been enough light in the room for any other man to read him, but Valjean knew Javert intimately well, after nearly ten years spent by his side and in his bed. Valjean knew the admiration in Javert’s gaze and the raw hunger. There would be a possessive pride on his face—not entirely unlike his expression when he watched his horses, yet that thought didn’t unsettle Valjean.

Javert’s hunger for him was absolute.

In these moments, Valjean knew that he was fully Javert’s, in a way that had once frightened him so much that he’d fought Javert for nearly a year. Now, it made heat rush through Valjean’s body until he felt even his face flush with it. When he began to slowly stroke himself, there was triumph in that, too: Rivette might work with Javert, but he would never know this. Javert would never look at Rivette the way he looked at Valjean right now.

Rivette would never know what it was like to throw himself against Javert’s iron rigidity until at last, there was no way forward but surrender.

Then Javert reached out with his good arm once more, his right hand coming to rest on Valjean’s thigh. Gently, Javert’s fingers stroked his skin, admiring, caressing, and Valjean found himself shaking at the simple touch, speeding up his strokes.

Javert’s eyes were still on him, dark and expectant. Shivering, Valjean tightened his grip on himself, his fingers turning rough as he imagined Javert touching him. 

He kept his eyes open and on Javert, his heart pounding in his chest. A gasp escaped him as he squeezed around the head of his cock—and then orgasm rushed through him. His release splattered across his chest, dripping over his fingers, his entire body trembling while Javert kept slowly, patiently stroking his thigh, watching him with a faint smile on his lips.

“Beautiful,” Javert murmured when Valjean had finished.

Valjean’s breath was still coming fast, his chest heaving as he gazed at Javert in the moonlight.

At last Javert raised his hand, still smiling. Delicately, he trailed his fingertips through the warm come dripping down Valjean’s chest.

Javert was so beautiful in the moonlight that looking at him made Valjean’s chest hurt with longing, even though Javert was right there.

His heart beating fast with yearning, Valjean reached out for Javert’s hand and raised it to his mouth. He drew Javert’s fingers into his mouth, one after the other, to tenderly suck them clean, Javert’s thumb trailing along his bottom lip.

“I love you,” Valjean whispered hoarsely when he finally curled up by Javert’s side. “If something had happened to you…”

Many years ago, Javert had forced him to make provisions for such a case. Now, Javert merely sighed, as if he knew there was no use in arguing with Valjean.

“Go to sleep,” Javert said gently, and Valjean obediently closed his eyes, reassured by the warmth of Javert next to him.

In the morning, for once Valjean was not the first to wake. When he opened his eyes, he found Javert watching him, Javert’s good hand resting on his thigh.

“Good morning, sir,” Valjean said, happiness spreading through him.

He reached out to brush the back of his hand against Javert’s cheek, his chest expanding with helpless joy. Warm morning sunlight spilled over Javert, bathing him in golden light. As Valjean’s fingers trailed over the silver hairs in Javert’s beard, his stomach contracted with helpless want.

He leaned over Javert to kiss him, and Javert’s hand came up to curve around his nape, fingertips caressing his skin.

When Valjean pulled back, Javert looked pleased, his eyes warm.

“How about you put that lovely mouth to a better use?” Javert murmured, still smiling. “I miss being woken by you…”

Valjean swallowed as he pulled back, then lightly shook his head. “Not while you’re healing. Remember what the doctor said. You have to remain still while the rib starts to mend.”

“I wasn’t intending to do the work,” Javert said with a hoarse laugh. “That’s what you are for.”

“I’ll find something else for you,” Valjean offered. “I’ll ask the portress to fetch you a cake from the English pastry-cook’s shop. Or a new book to read to you.”

“I wasn’t asking for a book.” The smile had vanished from Javert’s face, his voice betraying his annoyance. “You think you’re in charge now, just because some doctor has declared—”

“You were shot, sir,” Valjean said, holding himself up rigidly, “and broke a rib. You could have died. You might still die if that rib punctures a lung.”

Javert scoffed. “I wasn’t going to get up and run around. I just want that mouth of yours back where it belongs.”

Valjean’s mouth tightened. “I’m only trying to do what’s best for you.”

“And you think you know that better than I do?”

Javert’s eyes flashed dangerously. Although he was still resting in bed, his body bandaged, he no longer appeared as small and vulnerable as he had earlier.

This was the fury and the iron rigidity Valjean both feared and could not resist—and after a week of rest, it was finally turned on him with full force once more.

“No, sir,” Valjean said hoarsely. “But neither do you know better than the doctor.”

“In that case,” Javert said, his jaws clenched and his eyes furious, “you don’t deserve to sleep in my bed. Come back when you remember your place.”

Valjean gave Javert a wounded look, but he already knew that Javert would not budge.

There was little Javert hated more than not being in control. Valjean should have known that Javert’s mood could not remain good for long while he was confined to his bed, away from his work. Even so, after a week of constant worry, it hurt to be dismissed with no consideration of his own fears.

Stiffly, Valjean rose. He washed himself, his shoulders hunched, unhappily aware of the fact that for once, Javert’s eyes weren’t following his every move with admiration. Once Valjean had dressed, he turned back around and found Javert demonstratively ignoring him.

Every day, washing Javert had been something to look forward to, shaving him a privilege. Now, with Javert coldly furious with him, even the simple pleasure of running a damp cloth over Javert’s elegant limbs had lost much of its appeal.

Javert was still just as beautiful, his body still as reassuringly warm and alive. But today, when Valjean ran the damp flannel up Javert’s thighs and over his cock, Javert began to harden, and when Valjean looked up to give Javert a guilty look, he found Javert scoffing at him and turning his head away again.

Valjean swallowed miserably. Didn’t Javert know that there was nothing he wanted more than to give him pleasure? But the doctor’s instructions had been clear. Until those instructions changed, Valjean would not dare. Javert had come too close to death.

Quietly, Valjean continued to wash Javert. Although he tried his best to focus on the task at hand, his eyes kept being drawn to Javert’s cock, half-hard and appealing.

Could it truly hurt to give Javert what he wanted...?

Then he thought again of the doctor’s warnings and turned away with a shiver. There were men with broken ribs, the doctor had said, who appeared perfectly well and to be healing at a good rate—only to die all of a sudden two weeks later because the rib had pierced a lung. Tight bandages and strict rest was the best course of action, as much as Javert himself might hate the inactivity.

Javert still wouldn’t meet his eyes when Valjean was done. He continued to quietly seethe even while Valjean began to shave him.

This truly was a privilege, and one Valjean always cherished. Today, even the delight of carefully swiping the blade along the lines of Javert’s beard was dulled by Javert’s obvious resentment.

Still, even with Javert furious with him, he could enjoy the tactile pleasure of the act.

Valjean’s fingers slid over soft skin and scratchy hair, savoring the heat of Javert’s skin and the beating of his pulse. Gently, Valjean brushed a finger against one of the patches of silver hair in Javert’s beard. Any other day, he might have leaned down to press his lips to it; today, he knew better.

“Are you done yet?” Javert demanded coldly.

Valjean swallowed and inclined his head, fetching a towel to wipe Javert clean.

“Is there anything else you want, sir?”

“I’d like some peace and quiet,” Javert said, his jaw hard.

Valjean nodded quietly, trying to hide his hurt.

“And send for Rivette. At least there’s someone around here still doing his job.”

Valjean flinched, pain and fury warring within him at the mere idea that Javert should ban him from his bedroom and invite Rivette into it—Rivette, who had no business at all entering this apartment.

After a moment, he bit back his resentment and sullenly went to do as he was told, listening for any sound from the bedroom, although he knew there was little hope that Javert might change his mind.

Javert did not call for him.

***

The afternoon was worse than any other day so far.

Rivette arrived with a smile and full of exuberance. He greeted Valjean as if he were Valjean’s friend, when the only reason Valjean didn’t slam the door in his face was that he had to submit to Javert’s demands, and that Javert had taken an inexplicable liking to this inept, mustachioed ninny of a police agent.

But perhaps that was why Javert liked Rivette. His second-in-command would always make Javert look good.

Brooding, Valjean remained in Javert’s study while Javert kept Rivette in his room for more than an hour. Valjean tried to read, but it was impossible to focus. At last, he closed the book and remained in his chair, listening to the soft sound of voices. Once or twice, he heard Javert laugh, the sound making him ache as if someone had stabbed him with a knife.

Valjean refused to get up and say goodbye to Rivette when he at last heard the sound of the bedroom door. Instead, he remained in the study, listening to the sound of Rivette’s steps. Finally, the door of their apartment fell shut, and he could hear someone go down the stairs outside.

Valjean covered his burning eyes with his arm. He cried quietly while the sun moved towards the horizon, the shadows turning long.

Any other year, they might have spent a weekend on Valjean’s small farm, taking the horses and watching the crop of foals sired by the new Spanish stud they’d acquired. They would have been happy.

Javert would have been pleased to have only Valjean’s company and that of the horses, and they would have gone on long rides along green meadows and leafy forests. On hot days, they would have bathed in a cool forest lake and let the sun dry their skin afterwards, and Javert might have taken him right there in the green moss, surrounded by flowers and birdsong and their grazing horses.

Instead, Javert had been brought back home to him half-dead. And after everything Valjean had been through, everything he’d given up for Javert, he now had to suffer the presence of Rivette in his own home and hear him laughing with Javert as if nothing had happened at all—as if they hadn’t come close to catastrophe.

Javert was no longer quite as furious, but noticeably cooler with Valjean when he brought Javert his dinner—a cup of warm broth and bread, and as much cold chicken as Javert felt up to.

Usually, he would have read to Javert afterward. Today, when Valjean hesitated by the small table where the book awaited and gave Javert a glance, Javert’s lips tightened again.

“Would you like me to read to you, sir?” Valjean asked quietly.

Javert looked at him for a moment, but clearly did not like what he saw. His lips twisted. There were deep creases between his brows.

“Not while you’re in one of your moods.”

Valjean swallowed and hung his head. Silently, he went to prepare Javert’s medication. After Javert had swallowed his brandy and laudanum, Valjean hovered by his bedside once more.

Javert turned his head to look at him, his eyes dark and hard.

“You know the rules. If you aren’t willing to do as you’re told, you don’t deserve to sleep in my bed.”

Valjean felt his own jaw tighten, but he did not try to argue with Javert.

It had been a long, long time since he had been barred from Javert’s bed for his refusal to put his mouth to use.

Valjean’s eyes burned, but he managed to blink back his tears until he had left Javert’s bedroom. There was still bread and cold chicken awaiting him, but Valjean no longer felt any hunger. Instead, he tried to distract himself for an hour with the same book he had put away earlier, but to no avail.

Javert was already deeply asleep when Valjean came back inside the bedroom.

Taking a blanket and a pillow, Valjean made himself a bed on the wooden floor as he had before, ten years ago. He left the window open, the cooler night air bringing some relief from the summer’s heat. Then he curled up on the ground, wrapped in his blanket and listening to the sound of Javert’s breathing. The moon was shining inside, painting a square of silver light onto the wooden boards, directly in front of Valjean.

Valjean stretched out his hand, then turned it. The light gleamed on the old, pale scar at the center of his palm—a round scar in the exact shape of a silver forty-sous coin.

Valjean closed his eyes, tears dripping down his cheeks as he clenched his hand, achingly lonely and hurting at the unfairness of it all.

***

In the morning, Valjean woke early. Birds were singing outside, a pleasant breeze of cool air came in through the window, and the sky glowed yellow and orange as the sun rose above the horizon.

Warm light streamed in through the window. As Valjean rose quietly, he saw that Javert was still asleep.

Javert’s features were relaxed, lips slightly parted, his stern face soft with sleep.

Valjean couldn’t resist. Quietly, he sat down by Javert’s side, drinking in the sight of him, his stomach contracting with helpless need. Any other day, Valjean would have been able to show his admiration with gentle touches, drawing the blanket away to worship with hands and mouth, and making certain that Javert woke to pleasure, like any other day.

Today, not only was he denied that beloved morning ritual, but he was also denied the sight of a smile on Javert’s face.

As the sunlight made its way across the room, Valjean rose again to wash and dress. He prepared a glass with a small amount of brandy and a single drop of laudanum, which he left by Javert’s bedside.

Their breakfast was waiting in a basket by their door, prepared by their portress—bread, eggs, cheese and two peaches.

Valjean sat down and cut off a wedge of cheese for himself, although the thought of food was not appealing. He kept listening for sounds coming from the bedroom, but it seemed that Javert was still asleep.

At last the cry of the water-carrier outside gave him a sudden idea, and he hastily made his way outside towards the corner where an old flower vendor could be found on most days. When he returned with his flowers, he was relieved to see that Javert was still asleep.

Quietly, Valjean arranged the flowers in a vase by the window. Purple lilacs gave off their strong scent, combining with red roses, blue irises and yellow dahlias into a riot of color. He had not thought about their decorativeness when he’d bought them, but been hit by a sudden need to fill Javert’s bedroom with life and vibrancy.

Javert was still asleep when he was done, and so Valjean returned to his own breakfast. This time, he managed to finish one of the penny rolls, saving the peaches for later, before he heard the first sounds from the bedroom revealing that Javert had finally woken.

When Valjean came to check on him, he found that Javert had already taken the laudanum-laced brandy Valjean had prepared for him. Javert’s face was turned towards the flowers, and as Valjean followed his gaze, he saw that a white butterfly had come fluttering in through the open window to alight on the lilacs, wings slowly shifting in the breeze.

“Good morning, sir,” Valjean said quietly.

Javert’s head turned towards him, and once again an overwhelming wave of love and desperate need washed through Valjean. He’d already taken a first, instinctive step towards Javert when Javert’s jaw tightened once more.

“I see you’re still as stubborn as you used to be,” was all Javert said.

Valjean pressed his lips together and didn’t answer, although he did not bother to hide his indignation as he washed Javert.

Today, like the day before, Javert’s cock stirred a little at his touch, and Valjean felt his mouth go dry with sudden need.

“It’s not stubbornness,” he said abruptly and let the flannel sink. “I want you, more than anything. You must know that.”

“Do you?” Javert said pointedly. “Not enough to do as you’re told, at least.”

Valjean looked up in resentment, and this time Javert gave him a harsh, unamused laugh.

“Look at you. I thought I’d beaten that sullenness out of you, but there it is again.”

With his good hand, Javert reached out and clenched his fingers around Valjean’s chin. “That pained, ill-used look of yours—you think it’s going to get you results?”

“No,” Valjean said just as resentfully.

Javert’s sharp smile made Valjean’s stomach tighten again with helpless need, even though he had to fight the urge to push Javert’s hand away.

“Take care, Valjean,” Javert said very softly. “Once my shoulder has healed, I’m going to make certain you won’t sit down for a week.”

“If you’re still alive by that time,” Valjean said. “Sir.”

“You’re not getting rid of me that easily, if that’s what you’re hoping for.”

Sudden tears burned in Valjean’s eyes. “You know very well I don’t. Even if you could never make use of your arm again, I’d still be yours.”

Javert smiled slightly, a fingertip brushing along Valjean’s bottom lip before he let his hand sink again.

“You’re not doing a very good job of showing that. At least in the prefecture, they still know to do as they’re told.”

Valjean rose abruptly and turned his face towards the window to hide his angry tears.

“Then why don’t you ask Rivette to care for you,” he said bitingly. “I’m sure he’d be only too happy to suck your cock, even if it kills you.”

Javert was silent. Blinded by his tears and a helpless, desperate anger, Valjean kept staring at the window.

When Javert at last spoke, his voice was quietly furious.

“Any other time, I’d make you fetch my belt right now. You think you can take advantage of the fact that I can’t handle you the way you need to be handled right now? I’ll have to teach you better, I can see that. And I will. That is a promise, Valjean. The day I can leave this bed, you’re going to get a thrashing you won’t forget any time soon.”

Valjean pressed his lips together, his shoulders hunching instinctively as he stared at the flowers. A moment later, the butterfly took to the air once more, escaping from the brewing storm through the open window.

Clenching his teeth, Valjean turned back around.

“A thrashing for the fact that I’m caring for you as the doctor ordered?” he said resentfully. “That I’m willing to do anything—anything at all—if it means that in a few weeks’ time, you will be whole once more? Very well, if that’s the price I have to pay, you can whip me if you must, and make me sleep on the floor every day for a year. It still won’t change my mind.”

“I haven’t seen you like that since the early days in Montreuil,” Javert said. “I enjoyed breaking you of that behavior the first time. I’ll enjoy it just as much the second time, if that’s what you want.”

“What I want? What I want is for you to be well,” Valjean cried, tears of fury and frustration spilling free once more. He took a step towards the bed, then hesitated. A moment later, he turned on his heel and fled from the bedroom, feeling as miserable and ashamed of himself as he hadn’t since Montreuil.

For an hour, he kept hiding in Javert’s study again before he finally returned, eyes averted, clutching a book. Javert was still furiously ignoring him, but now that Valjean’s anger had passed, all he felt was shame.

Javert had been confined to his bed for over a week. It was no wonder that he was in a terrible mood. Even worse, he was currently dependent on Valjean for everything. For a man as fiercely independent as Javert, this had to be worse than the broken rib itself.

This wasn’t the first time Valjean had taken umbrage at being treated unfairly and been chastised for it. The last time, it had happened when he’d found a man hanging off a cliff in a storm, and Valjean remembered Javert’s words well.

If he’d truly only wanted to do what was right, no matter the consequences to himself, then Valjean would have disobeyed all orders to rescue the stranger and returned to Javert to report his disobedience—accepting the results of his actions without complaint.

The same was true now.

Valjean was disobedient for a good reason—Javert’s own well-being, as ordered by a doctor. Instead of feeling resentment at Javert’s anger, shouldn’t he be content to accept the consequences that would follow once Javert was better?

The rest of the day passed more quietly, although Javert’s displeasure never abated. Still, his sharp words were easier to bear, now that Valjean had recalled the day when he’d saved the Englishman from a storm.

Valjean could do the right thing and gracefully accept the consequences of his disobedience. And once Javert was well again and capable of taking up belt or riding crop, all hurt feelings would vanish soon enough. All that would be left would be gratitude that Javert was alive and well.

Javert must have sensed the change in him. The next time their eyes met, Javert’s nostrils flared and his brows drew together—questioning more than angry this time.

Valjean met his gaze calmly, and after a moment, Javert pointed to the floor by his bed.

Without protest, Valjean stepped close, then went obediently to his knees. Once more Javert’s hand clenched around his chin, tilting his face so that it caught the last rays of sunlight.

Javert’s thumb drew around his mouth, following the lines unhappiness had left there.

“How long has it been since you’ve looked at me like that? Montreuil? When you first came to Paris?” Javert mused. The pad of his thumb traced along the side of his mouth. “Such a martyr. Don’t you know those pained looks have only ever made me want to hurt you more?”

Warmth spread through Valjean’s chest. He turned his head until he could press a kiss to the inside of Javert’s wrist.

“My rules are still my rules,” Javert said, and this time, Valjean could hear that he was struggling to keep the warmth out of his voice. “Do you think you can change my mind?”

“No, sir,” Valjean said in quiet adoration.

He rose and went to fetch Javert’s favorite belt—supple leather worn to a pleasing smoothness by years of use. Valjean knew from long years of experience that it would leave broad, stinging welts on his backside. Out of all of Javert’s belts, this was the strictest—kinder than cane or riding crop, perhaps, but also more personal.

With the belt, he went to his knees before Javert once more, then placed it on the bed, next to Javert’s hand. He kissed the leather, then Javert’s palm. 

“Get well soon, sir,” he said softly, and Javert sighed.

After a moment, his hand curved lightly around Valjean’s nape.

“What am I going to do with you?” Javert murmured. Gently, the pad of his thumb drew little circles against Valjean’s skin. When Javert spoke again, the reluctant humor in his voice was unmistakable.

“And how will I entertain myself all day if I can’t even be angry at you?”

A smile stole onto Valjean’s face, although he remained obediently still beneath Javert’s caressing hand.

“I could read to you.”

“No more of your damn Byron,” Javert said.

“If you don’t like him, I will read you Robinson Crusoe again.”

“No books,” Javert said firmly. “I’m sick and tired of it all. This room, this bed, these books.”

“Tell me about what you would like to do once you’re better,” Valjean offered. “Where you would want to go.”

“There’ll be so much work waiting for me. I dare not imagine the mess on my desk...”

“Not work, sir,” Valjean said tenderly. “Would you like to spend a few days on the farm? This year’s foals will all be out in the meadows by then.”

“Perhaps,” Javert said slowly, considering. “I suppose, now that the city is quieter...”

“I have been thinking of it a lot, sir.”

“Have you?” Javert now definitely sounded interested. “And what is it exactly you have thought about?”

“How good it feels to slide into a cool lake on a hot summer’s day,” Valjean said. “How good you look in the water. How much… How much I’d like you to fuck me in the soft moss as the sun dries our skin.”

Javert drew in a sudden breath. “Tell me more.”

Valjean swallowed to overcome his embarrassment.

“We could stay a weekend—or perhaps, once you can get up again, we could stay there for a week or two while you finish healing. We could walk a little every day, see how the mares fare—and if the weather stays hot, take two of the horses and ride deep into the forest, to one of the lakes where no one ever comes. Just the two of us, sir. Perhaps a basket with wine and food. Just the sun and the water and your skin against mine.”

“Perhaps,” Javert murmured thoughtfully. “Perhaps...”

His thumb stroked along where Valjean’s pulse was beating in his throat.

“Or perhaps I can take you to the sea,” Javert said, his voice distant. “Rent a small house somewhere, far from any village. Stay a week or two. Breathe in the salty air. Swim when it gets hot.”

Dunes and reeds and sand and the cries of seagulls. Happiness enough, perhaps, to forget even the sound of water lapping against the sides of the hulks at night. Javert’s skin against his own, slick and cool from the water. Javert fucking him in the surf, water lapping at their feet as Javert filled him, hot and hard, straining against each other with only the ocean as their witness...

“I would like that, sir,” Valjean said quietly. “I would like that very much.”

And then, once Javert was up to the exertion, the belt. Valjean would not mind that either. Wasn’t that the reason he had returned to Javert in the first place?

He’d always been drawn to Javert’s severity—and the soft, human vulnerability visible in rare moments, and all the more precious for it.

Slowly, Valjean rose onto his knees. Javert gently twined his fingers into his hair to pull him in for a kiss.

When Javert released him, Javert was smiling again, his hand falling back down onto the bed to touch the belt.

“And don’t think I have forgotten this, either.” Javert’s lips curved upwards, pleased. “Nor my promise to make certain you won’t sit down for a week.”

Valjean kissed his hand again, breathing in the scent of Javert mingling with the scent of leather, his stomach instinctively tightening with sharp, painful need.

Just a few hours earlier, he’d cried hot tears of anger and frustration at Javert’s unfairness. Now, Valjean could barely wait for the return of the old Javert, although he didn’t doubt that the day Javert was well enough to hold a belt would be a painful day for him.

Javert would be well again, that was what mattered. And no matter how Valjean might rage and throw himself against him, Javert would always stand firm and strong like a cliff of granite that did not care about the ocean’s fury.

***

That night, Valjean settled willingly down onto the floor with his blanket. He missed the warmth of Javert next to him, but it was soothing to have Javert’s rules encircle him like his arms might otherwise. There was security in the awareness that they hadn’t changed in all these years.

In the morning, when he washed Javert, Javert’s cock seemed of the firm opinion that Javert was well enough for some attention.

It was hard to pull his gaze away from where it had risen, curving proudly against Javert’s stomach. For a moment, Valjean caught himself thinking that surely, it could do no harm if Javert came in his mouth, as long as he didn’t have to move…

When Valjean moved away in embarrassment, Javert gave him a knowing look.

Javert had never taken well to not being in control, and even less well to being denied the things he thought were his due. Still, today, there was humor mixed in with his frustration, and the smile he gave Valjean was sharp.

“I hope your backside isn’t going to regret your choices.”

“I have no doubt it will, sir,” Valjean said. “But I’ll bear the consequences of my actions happily.”

“We’ll see about that…” Javert’s eyes narrowed as his gaze went back to where his belt hung, draped over a chair.

Later, in the early afternoon, the doctor visited once more. The shoulder wound was healing well; the chloruretted lotion had kept infection at bay.

“And the rib?” Javert said. “I’m sick of lying in my bed all day. There’s work to do.”

“I have no doubt about that,” the doctor said gravely. “It will have to keep waiting for a while. Still, you seem to be healing well so far. You may sit up in bed now; no doubt that will make you more comfortable.”

“And when can I get up?” Javert demanded.

The doctor shook his head slowly and thoughtfully. “In a week’s time, I will come to change the bandages. I will take another look then. Until that time, you must remain in bed.”

Javert looked displeased, but when Valjean arranged pillows behind his back and helped him to sit up, he no longer looked quite as frustrated.

“Much better,” he said. “At least I can deal with my correspondence now.”

“Keep taking laudanum at night,” the doctor advised. “And do follow my orders. Keep him in bed, sir,” he said, turning to Valjean. “He can sit up, read and write if he pleases—but do keep him from walking.”

“Of course,” Valjean said, ignoring the way Javert rolled his eyes at him. “Thank you.”

He couldn’t help smiling once he returned to the bedroom after the doctor had left. The window stood wide open, although the June heat was no longer as oppressive. A warm breeze came in through the window, carrying in the sounds of hooves and wheels from the yard below, the curtain fluttering.

Javert awaited him, sitting propped up against the headboard for the first time in many days. When he saw Valjean, he raised his chin and gave him a smug look.

“It seems I was right. I’m well enough for some activity.”

“It seems that you are, sir,” Valjean agreed, still unable to keep from smiling.

“Are you going to sleep on the floor tonight?”

“No, sir,” Valjean said. “I will sleep in your bed. If I may.”

Javert looked him up and down, although the corner of his mouth was twitching as well. “That depends on your behavior today.”

Something fluttered in Valjean’s chest as he gave himself up to the helpless joy that kept rising inside him. The mere sight of Javert was enough to make him feel overwhelmed and helpless, his chest too tight to breathe.

He had never felt that way in his youth—hadn’t thought he ever would, after the hulks.

Now, there was Javert, as resplendent in his mantle of authority as he was resting in his bed, golden sunlight gleaming on his body, the silver hairs in his beard causing Valjean’s heart to overflow with a tenderness he hadn’t thought possible.

“I’ll work hard, sir,” Valjean said warmly. “Tell me what you want.”

“For a start,” Javert said, mouth still twitching with barely suppressed amusement, “the reports and letters Rivette left.”

***

Dinner was a relaxed affair. Now that Javert was at last able to sit upright, he could feed himself, and Valjean arranged a plate of slices of mutton that had been stewed with carrots and onions, and soft, crusty bread. Through the open window, warm air came inside, bringing with it the heady scent of the lilacs and roses in their vase by the window.

Any other day, Javert might have worked for another hour. Today, after they had finished their dinner, Javert motioned towards the wash basin.

“Strip,” he said quietly.

Valjean swallowed and obeyed. The air was warm, the water cool against his skin. He breathed in deeply as he washed, the scent of the flowers mingling with that of Javert’s soap. He could feel Javert’s eyes on him, and he didn’t have to turn around to know the pleased look that was on Javert’s face.

Outside, it was still light. The sun set so late these days that they had an hour of daylight left. In the distance, the roofs of the city turned into shades of blue and dark purple, the sky curving above glowing with the colors of the slowly setting sun.

Javert awaited him with eyes that smoldered like the sky, lingering with heavy appreciation on Valjean’s naked body.

Valjean felt himself stir at the gaze, his body as hungry for Javert’s touch as his heart.

Javert pushed back the blanket when he approached. Beneath, he was naked and aroused, bare flesh glowing in the dying sunlight.

Valjean knelt on the bed by his feet, pressing a kiss to Javert’s knee. Slowly, unhurriedly, he worked his way upward kiss by kiss, along the inside of Javert’s thigh until he felt the heat of Javert’s cock brush his cheek.

To make up for the neglect of the past week, Valjean pressed a kiss to it, rewarded by the satisfied sigh that escaped Javert. Slowly, he licked his way upward. He paused to swirl his tongue around the tip, seeing if he could coax forth a first few droplets of pleasure, then licked back down again. He had missed this—the closeness, the intimacy, the thrill that came from knowing that he was giving Javert pleasure.

When he looked up, he found that Javert had closed his eyes. His mouth was relaxed, lips slightly parted, stern features softened by his surrender to pleasure.

Tenderly, Valjean bent down once more and sucked Javert into his mouth, taking him in deep until he had to swallow around him and Javert moaned.

One of Javert’s hands found its way into his hair, tangling there. Valjean drew back a little, loving the slide and the weight of Javert against his tongue. Then he swallowed him back down so deep that Valjean’s nose was buried in the coarse hair at the base of Javert’s cock, mouth stretched wide around him.

Javert groaned, his hand slipping from Valjean’s head to caress his cheek, searching out the swell of his cock before he traced along Valjean’s lips.

“That mouth,” Javert said hoarsely, “That mouth...”

All Javert’s to use, as was the rest of him, Valjean thought with a shiver. It had been too long. A little over a week, and Valjean had gone half-mad with need for reassurance...

Slowly, Valjean drew back up, licking his swollen lips when he faced Javert. He crawled forward to assist Javert in lying back down, removing the pillows he’d stacked behind his back.

“I think I know something you like even better than my mouth,” he said with a smile as he reached out for the oil.

Tenderly, he slicked it over Javert’s already wet shaft, working him for a moment out of sheer appreciation for the way Javert’s cock felt in his hand—as hard and unyielding as Javert himself, and as single-minded in its desires.

Javert exhaled a sound of amusement. “Get on with it before I’m forced to add to the list of punishment.”

Valjean moved to straddle Javert’s hips, positioning himself above him. Meeting Javert’s eyes, he reached out for his cock again, holding it to stabilize it. Then he began to slowly sink down.

The sensation was as overwhelming as it had always been, Valjean’s body eager for it after a week of neglect. Javert shivered beneath him, one of his hands coming up to clench around Valjean’s thigh, and Valjean held still even though he could barely control himself.

“You’re not allowed to move,” he warned Javert. “Remember that, sir, or I’ll have to stop.”

Javert laughed hoarsely, his hand running up Valjean’s thigh, squeezing it in appreciation.

“I see. That’s what this is all about. You think you’re in control now. You think you can have your way with me.”

“It’s for your own good,” Valjean said. “Sir.”

It wasn’t unpleasant at all to have Javert helplessly beneath him, laid out for his admiring gaze.

Javert gave him another breathless laugh. “I see. You’re enjoying this. I hope you’ll also enjoy the lesson that’s waiting for you once I’m well again.”

Heat rose to Valjean’s face, and Javert exhaled, satisfied.

“Or maybe that’s exactly what you want,” he murmured. “You’ve always willingly come to me for punishment in the end…”

Valjean’s stomach tightened instinctively as Javert gave him a heated look from dark eyes full of promise.

With a groan, Valjean finished lowering himself, Javert’s cock deep inside him. He felt impossibly hot and thick. For a moment, the sensation took Valjean’s breath away. Instinct took over as he arched and shivered as the pressure of Javert within him sent sharp bursts of ecstasy running up his spine.

With a pleased moan, Javert’s hand slid forward until it could squeeze around a buttock. 

“I’ll teach you that lesson all over again,” Javert said.

His fingers trailed into the crease between Valjean’s buttocks until they found where his hole was spreading wide open around Javert’s cock. With a pleased sound, Javert’s fingertips rubbed against the tautly stretched muscle until Valjean could no longer bear it to remain still.

Slowly, Valjean began to move, his hips shifting instinctively as his body searched for the perfect angle. Once he’d found it, it took all of his strength to keep his movements slow and controlled. Every time he moved up and down, Javert’s cock rubbed against him inside, the pressure as relentless and demanding as when it was Javert who was in full control.

Javert moaned in appreciation. Sweat had begun to bead on his chest. As the last rays of the dying sun tinted his glistening skin a warm shade of russet, perspiration trickled down towards his stomach, leaving behind gleaming paths Valjean wanted to follow with his tongue.

They were both too far gone to slow down. Javert reached out for him again, trembling fingers running up his chest. When they found one of his nipples, Valjean moaned, his entire body trembling when Javert rubbed his thumb against it.

Javert drew in a sharp breath. “I could get used to this sight…”

Panting, Valjean rose and fell again. “It’s yours whenever you want it, sir. You know that.”

His own cock was aching desperately, arching towards his stomach. Valjean ignored it, even though the way he was riding Javert had begun to cause sticky fluid to drip from the tip. Strings of it were glistening in the last sunlight as they stretched from the swollen crown of his cock to Javert’s stomach.

Then Javert reached out and ran his fingers through the pool of liquid.

“Still can’t control yourself,” he said softly, tender and hungry and proud.

Valjean leaned forward with a gasp to catch Javert’s fingers with his mouth, sucking the stickiness from them as he continued to ride Javert until his thighs trembled from the effort.

Javert’s own breath was coming fast now. Valjean eyed the bandages with worry—he could not draw it out as he normally might, not with the strain this put on Javert’s ribs.

Ignoring his burning thighs, he began to move faster, tightening around Javert. Valjean’s lips were sticky and bitter with his own precome. When Javert wanted to pull his hand away, Valjean caught hold of it, sucking two of Javert’s fingers back into his mouth to lick the salt from them.

Javert was watching him—still motionless, as Valjean had demanded, although there was no doubt as to the effect Valjean’s actions were having on him.

Javert’s entire body was glistening with sweat, his eyes wide and dark with arousal. He kept his eyes open, fixed on Valjean, as if he wanted to burn the sight of him into his mind. Then his eyes fell half-shut, a low groan escaping him as he found release with spurt after spurt of heat spilled deep inside Valjean.

Valjean didn’t dare move until Javert was done, drinking in the sight of him abandoned to pleasure—unbearably beautiful.

 

At long last, Javert gently pulled his fingers free of Valjean’s mouth with another loving swipe along his wet bottom lip.

“I missed this,” Javert said, then gently stroked Valjean’s thigh, trailing upwards until his fingertips brushed against Valjean’s full, aching balls. “What about you?”

“I’ll make a mess of your bandages like this, sir,” Valjean said hoarsely.

Javert chuckled. “Turn around.”

Valjean had no choice but to obey, even though his hungry, quivering body didn’t want to relinquish the delicious penetration.

When he rose, Javert’s softening cock slipped from him, leaving him empty and unfulfilled. Warm trails of Javert’s come ran down his thighs, his own cock throbbing, aching for attention.

He ignored it as he followed Javert’s orders, arranging himself on hands and knees before he drew in a sudden breath. Javert’s fingers trailed through the warm mess running down his thighs, then rubbed against his stretched hole before they slipped inside.

“Touch yourself,” Javert said softly.

His fingers curved, knowing exactly where to touch. Fire ran through Valjean once more, his entire body trembling as his back arched and his hips pushed back, demanding more.

Javert’s massage was relentless and demanding, his fingertips massaging, rubbing back and forth—and this time there was no need for Valjean to hold back.

Valjean tightened his fingers around himself, stroking himself roughly, his body trembling as he fucked himself on Javert’s fingers—and then it rushed through him, his body shaking from the force of his orgasm as his release spurted onto Javert’s thighs, dripping from his fingers.

Javert gave him a low laugh of approval.

“As needy as ever,” he said, his voice full of affection. “Your little rebellion isn’t going to take you far.”

Panting, Valjean had to wait for a moment on his hands and knees before he could attempt to stand up.

Once he managed to rise, knees still shaking, he fetched a damp cloth to wipe them both down. Then he all but collapsed by Javert’s side, chest still heaving, body still damp with sweat, and his heart overflowing with tenderness for this most independent of men—who truly, all things considered, was taking his confinement well.

Valjean tilted his head against Javert’s shoulder, pressing a kiss to it.

Affectionately, Javert’s hand settled on his head, tousling his hair.

“Not so wild and rebellious after all,” Javert said gently.

“Worth taming anew once you’re better, sir?” Valjean looked up to meet Javert’s gaze.

“Always worth that,” Javert said quietly. “Always worth that.”

Valjean leaned forward to brush his lips to where Javert’s beard was going silver, then to the silver hairs at his brow. Outside, the city had gone quiet, the rectangle of sky outside the window a deep, dark blue.

Somewhere, a bird sang. The room was still filled by the heady scent of lilacs, mingling with the sweat and musk of their bodies.

Somewhere in this city, barricades had risen and fallen. Men had died. Others had lived.

What a small, small thing this room was, which held the only happiness Valjean had ever known. For so long, he had prayed that it was small enough to escape notice; that Jean Valjean could be forgotten; that the joy of these small rooms, these shared breakfasts and bottles of wine and rumpled sheets and lingering kisses would be safe, hidden beneath a roof that was just one among the thousands that formed this city.

But it was not so easy to be forgotten. A man could forge papers and escape the eyes of the law, but no man could escape fate.

“You look troubled,” Javert said, breathing easily now, his face still soft with the simple contentment that was resting next to each other in the warm night air, bodies sated. “What is it?”

“Nothing, sir,” Valjean said quietly, reaching out with tender fingers to trail over Javert’s cheek, the handsome jaw, the lips he loved. “I’m grateful you are still here.”

“You won’t get rid of me so easily.” The corner of Javert’s mouth rose again. “I thought you’d know that by now.”

Valjean couldn’t resist the temptation to trace that smile with a fingertip as well, trying to pinpoint the force that could make his heart ache so helplessly.

“There’s no life for me without you,” Valjean said. “If you had died there…”

Javert turned his head towards him. Valjean half expected Javert to chide him, reminding him of Fantine and Cosette or perhaps Robert. Instead, Javert sighed.

“I think, if you weren’t mine… I’d go mad,” Javert said. “That year, before you came to Paris…”

He shook his head and covered Valjean’s hand with his own, then pressed a kiss to his fingertips. “You’ll always be mine.”

The words were spoken decisively, in Javert’s customary authoritative tone, but there was a deep tenderness in the words that made Valjean smile.

The warm night air caressed his body, the bird outside still singing. Valjean breathed in deeply of the lilac-scented air, resting his head on Javert’s pillow and his hand on Javert’s stomach, feeling the gentle rise and fall as Javert breathed.

They’d brushed against fate—and they had survived the encounter, as they had survived everything else.

Javert was still his, and he was still Javert’s. Here, in this small apartment where they’d lived and dreamed and loved for almost a decade, that was the only truth that mattered.