Title: Turning
Work ID: 43587063
Author: 3CaptainVox7
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: My First Work in This Fandom, Hurt/Comfort, Angst and Hurt/Comfort, Hurt Valjean, Fluff and Hurt/Comfort, Fluff and Angst, Angst, Drama, Courtroom Drama, Slow Burn, I Don't Even Know, How Do I Tag, I Will Go Down With This Ship, Madeleine Era, Eventual Javert/Jean Valjean, Out of Character, Nightmares
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 6/19

She died; this was not his plan at all. He needs to get her daughter. It’s the least he can do but what about…. “Valjean,” Jean Valjean let out an annoyed sigh as he stood up from the poor woman’s deathbed. Using his hand on the bed frame. However, he didn’t turn around to meet Javert’s eyes. He sighed again and turned around after a few seconds. He saw Javert holding handcuffs in his hand. Pride was in his eyes. This was it. He was going back. No, he couldn’t go back. He can't. He made a promise. Valjean ran his hand over his eyes. He must look after that child, and he couldn’t do it there. Or where else they would put him? He stole bread, that’s all he did. Why can't Javert understand that? Valjean shook his head and stepped back from Javert.

“Javert,” he muttered even more annoyed pulling the thin covers over Fantine. “I don’t have time for this,” The ex-convict added standing up at full height. Javert laughed and walked closer to his prize. Valjean held up his hands telling him to back off. He was stronger than Javert and both of them knew it. That’s what happens when you were in the Galleys for nineteen years.

“Three days. That’s all I ask. Then I’ll go with you,” Valjean added in an annoyed voice.

“Three days for what Valjean? You will try to get away and we can’t have that,” Javert sneered crossing his arms. Valjean let out a calming breath and smiled a little.

“You don’t have to do this. I stole bread. How is that bad!” Valjean said trying to remain calm. However, he could hear in his voice that he was not.

Javert shook his head and held out the handcuffs.

“I need to help this poor woman’s child,” Valjean pleaded putting down his hands. That earned him another laugh from Javert.

“Story of your life 24601,” Javert said laughing again.  The inspector walked closer to him slowly with a sly smile on his face.

“Three days. Please,” Valjean pleaded holding his ground now. If he had to fight Javert then so be it. Javert rolled his eyes. He walked slowly to him. The cuff’s hit his legs with a clang.

“Come with me Valjean, now,” Valjean turned away from him. He then looked at the poor woman lying there.  He was too late and now he might never raise her daughter.

“I need to…” Valjean cut off when Javert cuffed him. However, it was on one hand. Valjean smiled a little to himself before he pushed Javert to the ground. “I’m stronger than you Javert. Don’t test me,” Valjean yelled trying to get the cuff off his hand.

 “There are more guards outside,” Javert said standing up slowly. Valjean would have laughed at how slowly he stood. Javert was ten years younger than him. However, it was not the time because Javert pushed him into a corner and then cuffed his other wrist. Valjean sighed but he didn’t fight back. 

‘Maybe the judge can help. I doubt it though. This was it. I’m sorry.” Valjean thought as he was pushed out of the hospital.

              Valjean was quiet when they walked into the courthouse and up the stairs to the large building. He can't believe he was here again. He was so careful.  He kept his head low as they walked up to the desk. “I have him,” Javert said. Valjean looked up as the man at the desk nodded and pointed to a holding cell.

“I will inform the judge,” Javert nodded and led Valjean to a cell.

“Just like old times 24601,” Javert said with a dark smile and crossed his arms. Valjean said nothing as he stared at the floor. He needed to save that child but…he failed.

“Wait. Please don’t do this. Javert, you can help me, please? A girl needs help and I…”

“Silence, Valjean. Save it, you lost. You never had a chance,” Javert snaped as hit the bars. Valjean didn’t flinch.

‘I’m sorry Fantine.’  Was all that was going through his head. He looked up as Javert left.

“I will be back Jean Valjean,” Javert said tapping the bars. He kept his eyes on him as he walked away.

              Valjean closed his eyes as he left. How could he let his guard down? Now he might not even see freedom again. Unless he can convince someone to help the child. He doubts it though. Valjean closed his eyes. He had to make it good if that is what he is going to do. However, he knew that it would not work. He had to pray and hope that it would. He had pray and hope that it will.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


              The courtroom was filled with muttering as Valjean was brought in.  Well, more like pushed but Valjean didn’t fight back. He was defeated. Maybe he could escape or something. However, Valjean knew that that was not on his mind right now. He can if he wanted to but… “Ah, you found him. Good job inspector,” Javert smiled with twisted pride. Valjean wasn’t scared but the look of madness in Javert's eyes somewhat scared him.  

“Now, Jean Valjean,” Valjean looked up to the judge and nodded slowly. A memory flashed before his eyes as he thought back to when he was first arrested. He was a different man back then but why he had the thought to run? He needed to pay for what he has done but what about… “You broke parole ten years ago,” Valjean looked down in shame. He was not proud of that, but he had to. He wouldn’t survive anyway if he didn’t.  “However,” Valjean looked up.  “That was ten years ago,” Valjean nodded slowly wondering where he was getting at. “You helped people,” The judge sighed and looked around him. “But that does not make up for what you did. Inspector?” Javert looked up and nodded.

“Yes?” he said voice a little confused.

“I’m placing Jean Valjean in your care. He is under house arrest for a year. However, he may go on with his life as he sees fit. You may tell him otherwise if he chooses to do something against the law,” the judge told the two confused men. Valjean saw the shocked look on Javert’s face for a short moment before it turned back to the normal stern look.

“Very well,” Javert said. Valjean heard the confusion in his voice, but he kept his mouth shut. He then saw Javert walk over to him.

“As for you Jean Valjean. You must do everything that Javert has to say. No getting into trouble and you must go back to your real name. You cannot change it again. Do you understand?” the judge said. Valjean nodded. He then cleared his thought deciding to speak up.

“I know I’m in no position to ask this but there is a child that I promised to look after. May she be with us?” Valjean asked looking at Javert who gave him a look. The judge thought for a moment before he nodded slowly.

“Yes, she may,” he said making Valjean’s heart swell. He nodded and allowed Javert to push out of the courthouse.

              Valjean was pushed into Javert’s house. He kept his head down but he was confused. Why didn’t the judge tell him to go back? He should be back there. Why didn’t he tell him about the child earlier? Maybe he didn’t need to, or he was too shocked.  “Valjean,” Javert said cutting him out of his thoughts.

“Yes?” Valjean said quietly. He looked up and saw the same pride in his eyes but there was also confusion there as well.

“Good, now we will get the child later. For now, though, I’ll lead you up to where you will be staying, and you will stay until dinner. Do you understand?” Javert demanded. Valjean nodded and followed Javert to the stairs.  

              It was darker now, not that Valjean cared. However, he really needed to get the girl. He will though he made sure of that. He looked to the door to his room when he heard a knock. “Come in Javert,” Valjean said. The door opened and Javert was in the doorway with his arms crossed.

“We are going,” he said. Valjean nodded and got off the chair at the desk that he was sitting on.

“Alright, I’m ready,” Valjean said making sure that he has his wallet. He then nodded to Javert and soon they walked to the carriage.

How was that? I know it’s not good but I don’t care. Thank you all for reading and tell me what you think. Did you like it? Thank you all for reading and I will see you next time


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


              The ride to the child was long and quiet. Valjean didn’t mind it but he wondered what was going on in Javert’s mind at the moment. He looked at him and watched as he just sat there not moving. Valjean wanted to ask him something, but he kept his mouth shut. He didn’t want to get on his bad side. Even though he already was. “We are almost there,” Javert said cutting Valjean out of his thoughts. Valjean nodded but he stayed quiet. Javert smiled a little at this. “I will remain in the carriage while you get the child. I’m just here to make sure you don’t do anything,” Valjean nodded as they pulled up to a loud inn with bright lights and drunk singing. Valjean let out a shaky breath to calm himself before he got out of the carriage. However, as he made his way to the door’s he stopped when he saw a child walk into the woods behind the inn. The ex-convict followed the child ignoring Javert who was watching him.

              He stopped in his tracks when he saw a girl in raggedy clothes and no shoes trying to lift a heavy pail. Valjean looked down sadly and got down to his knees. “Hello there,” he said calmly. The girl looked up and flinched away from him. “It’s okay. Don’t be afraid,” Valjean held out his hand. The girl wiped the tears from her blue eyes and nodded. “What is your name, child,” he said trying to use a calming voice. the girl stood up and said:

“I’m called Cosette,” she said in a small but sweet voice. Valjean smiled gently at her but in the back of his mind, he was yelling.  Who would do this to a child? He knew though when he gets to her “guardians “he would have to remain calm. He didn’t want to go back to prison.

“Cosette,” he said in a shocked but happy voice. Or he was trying to stay happy. “Why don’t you show me where you live?” he said picking up the pail and holding the hand of his new charge, no daughter.  

              It had started to snow once Valjean and Cosette walked into the inn. It was not as loud, and everyone was asleep. The girl was smiling when they walked in however when she saw the woman who was cleaning tables run at her she ran behind Valjean. Valjean shook his head. “I found her wandering in the woods. I’m here to help Cosette but I’m afraid I would have to take her away,” Valjean said running his hand over the girl's head and smiling a little. Soon the innkeeper came down the stair and started to fake cry. Valjean tried so hard to roll his eyes. The man and his wife started to ramble about cost and money. After what felt like an hour Valjean raised his hand.

“No more words,” he said putting the money down on a table and walking away. “Goodbye,” he said leaving the inn. The last thing he heard was laughter and something else that he didn’t want to think about.

              Javert wasn’t annoyed but what was taking Valjean so long? All he had to do was get the child and… oh what does he know? He was born in a jail. He didn’t know what children liked. After a few more moments of waiting the door opened and Valjean and a small child around nine climbed in. “Sorry, we took a little longer Javert. I needed to get some other things done,” Valjean said watching the child as she looked at Javert. “Cosette, this is Javert. He’s my roommate,” Valjean told the child who waved at Javert. Javert waved back keeping his eyes on Valjean as the carriage started to move back to Javert’s house. Cosette was looking out the window looking at the sites around her. Thankfully she did ask why they were “Roommates or anything” however Valjean was worried for the child she seemed scared of him and everything else around her. Valjean will have to fix that, and she will be a happy young girl. They had a long way to go, however.

I’m not sure how long this story will be but this Is getting fin to write. Thank you for my first comment on this story. Tell me what you guys think. Did you like it? Thank you again and I will see you next time.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The ride back was just as quiet after Cosette fell asleep. Valjean could not help but smile at the small child as he ran his hand through her matted dirty blonde hair.  ‘She will need a bath.’  Valjean thought as he looked at Javert who was staring at him. Valjean wondered what was going on in his head. He realized that he didn’t know Javert very well. He guesses that this year he will learn a lot about him. Javert however didn’t know how to act at the moment. Valjean was acting so gently. He knew the man was kind but…

“Valjean?” Javert asked trying to keep his voice demanding. However, it was failing a little. Valjean looked up at him and Javert saw anger in his eyes.

“How could anyone treat a child so…so cruelly,” Valjean muttered to him. Javert nodded sadly. However, he didn’t say anything. He knew what Valjean was like when he was upset.  “I will make this right,” Valjean said mostly to the sleeping girl. “I know I have to stay with you Javert but none of that matters now,” Valjean said before they fell quiet.

              Valjean walked into Javert’s house with Cosette in his arms with Javert close behind. Valjean sighed as he looked around the house. This was going to be a long year, but it will be worth it. He gets to look after a child. He never thought that this would be his life. Valjean looked at Javert before he walked to the stairs and walked to his room.  

              A warm smile formed on his face as he laid the girl down on the pillow and pulled the covers over her. “Sleep well, child,” Valjean whispered. He then looked around his room. His new room. He felt weird, and out of place. “At least it’s not prison.’  Valjean thought as he walked over to the desk and sat down. “I can do this. It’s going to be worth it,” he told himself as he heard a knock on the door. “Come in Javert,” he said in a quiet voice. Javert walked in a Valjean heard the clanging of metal. Valjean sighed but he didn’t say anything. Javert walked quietly up to him and crossed his arms.

“Valjean,” Javert said making Valjean turn around. He nodded meeting Javert’s eyes.  “Just in case,” he said holding out the cuffs.  Valjean nodded and stood up slowly. Javert half smiled and placed the cuffs on Valjean’s wrists behind him. “Now you can't leave the house at night. Do you understand?” Javert said making Valjean nod slowly. “Good. I will be downstairs. Food should be ready later,” Javert added before he left the room closing the door behind him.  Valjean sighed and looked back to Cosette who was sleeping still.

“This is going to be hard to explain if she wakes up,” Valjean said closing his eyes. He didn’t realize that he had fallen asleep as well.

How was that? Sorry, this is short and about the wait on this story. A lot has happened, and I didn’t feel like writing. Anyway, tell me what you think. Did you like it? Thank you again for reading and I will see you next time.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


              The house was quiet. Valjean didn’t know if he liked the quiet. However, he was happy to not hear the cries of prisoners and yelling. He didn’t care though that he heard the mental chains behind him. A knock came on the door again. “Come in Javert,” Valjean said looking over to Cosette who didn’t stir. Valjean smiled at her. However, he sighed when he heard the door open.

“Dinner is ready Valjean,” Valjean nodded and stood up. Javert walked behind him and uncuffed him. “Don’t get used to this,” he added before he walked out of the room. Valjean nodded before he followed him.

              Valjean was quiet during dinner. Javert didn’t blame him. It’s been a weird two days. Or has it been longer? Javert didn’t know. “Is she still asleep?” Javert asked. Valjean looked up from his plate and nodded.

“Yes. Tomorrow, I will bathe her and… How do I explain this?” Valjean muttered the last part, but Javert heard him. Javert didn’t have an answer, but he knew Valjean will figure it out.

“I don’t know Valjean,” Javert answered shaking his head before he started to eat again. Soon the two of them grew quiet.

              Valjean couldn’t sleep. He’s been up for a long time and now he can't sleep. Why? Why can't he sleep? He rubbed his eyes and sighed. “You’re not there. You’re not in prison,” he told himself before he fell asleep there in the chair that he was sitting on.

              Cosette woke up to a soft bed. She didn’t want to leave it but she knew that she had a lot of work to do. However, when she opened her eyes she saw the kind man, her new papa sitting across from her at a desk. He was writing something. “Hello,” she said in a quiet voice. The man turned around and smiled at her.

“Good morning,” he said standing up. “How are you feeling? Are you hungry?” He said gently. He didn’t know how to raise a child, but he could figure it out. Cosette looked at him confused for a second before she nodded with a smile.

“Yes, sir, pappa,” she said in a quiet voice. Valjean smiled gently.

“Just papa Cosette,” Valjean said standing up and walking over to her. Cosette flinched a little but there was a small smile on her face. “Come on, let’s get some food,” Valjean said picking the girl up and walking out of the room.

              Javert was gone by the time Valjean and Cosette walked downstairs. ‘He went to work, good.’ ’  Valjean thought. He then walked over to the table and put Cosette down in the chair. “Alright let’s see what we have to eat today?” Valjean said looking at the child. Cosette looked at him confused but she didn’t say anything. She just watched Valjean as he made her breakfast.

              After a few minutes, Valjean set a plate down in front of Cosette and smiled. She looked down at it and started to eat. However, she was eating quicker than Valjean liked. That’s when he realized that he did the same thing after he was freed. “Child, you don’t need to eat so quickly. No one will take it away from you,” Valjean said gently. Valjean smiled at her as she started to eat slower.  It took a while, but Valjean started to eat as well. ‘I can do this.’  Valjean thought to himself with a small smile.

Thanks for all the wonderful comments on this story. I never thought that this story will get any. I’m not good at writing this fandom but I wanted to write it away. that’s why I love writing. Anyway, thank you guys again and I will see you next time.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


              Cosette liked her papa. He was calm and gentle, but she saw something in his eyes. She didn’t know what it was. He didn’t make her do chores or stay up late. Cosette was sitting in the living room playing with her new doll laughing a little to herself.  Valjean was reading the newspaper close to her with a small smile on his face. “Look Papa, she’s a beautiful princess,” Cosette said holding up the doll. Valjean smiled at her.

“That’s wonderful, Cosette,” he said back looking up at her. Her hair was still wet from her bath. It wasn’t hard to bathe her, but she didn’t know what to do with what was happening. “Did you name her yet?” Valjean asked, putting the paper down. The girl shook her head.

“No, I don’t know what to call her,” she answered looking down at the small doll with blonde hair and a blue hat on. “I’ve never had a doll before,” she added looking to the fount door which opened. Valjean tried to hide the finch.

“Valjean? Are you two home?” Valjean looked down at Cosette and smiled a little at her.

“I’ll be right back,” he said standing up slowly. He winched a little at his leg, but Cosette didn’t notice.

              Javert sighed when he saw Valjean walk up to him. “Hello, Javert,” Valjean said looking at Cossette. Javert nodded.

“Hello,” was all Javert said as he walked into the house. Valjean followed him.  “What did you both do today?” Javert asked standing in the living room. Valjean stood in front of him with his hands behind his back.

“We did a little shopping and the little one had a bath. Did you have fun today dear?” Valjean asked. Cosette smiled at him and nodded.

“Yes, Pappa,” she said before she ran out of the room. “I’m going to play outside. If that’s ok,” she asked in the doorway. Valjean smiled at her.

“Yes, dear. Don’t go too far alright?” Valjean told her. She nodded before she ran off.

              Valjean looked up at Javert who was watching him. His eyes were tired. Valjean didn’t blame him. He wanted to ask him how his day was, but he kept his mouth shut.  The two stood there awkwardly for a few seconds before Valjean left the room to watch Cosette.

Sorry this ch is short I couldn’t think of what else to put in this ch. Thank you all for reading. Did you like it? Tell me what you think. Thank you again and I will see you next time