Title: Unfinished and Abandoned Bits
Work ID: 14692566
Author: sketchbook henry (bessemerprocess)
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Montague John Druitt/Helen Magnus, Clark Lane/Dean Parker, Rachel Maddow/Sloan Sabbith, Olivia Dunham/Emily Prentiss, Rachel Maddow/Emily Prentiss, Patrick Jane/Teresa Lisbon, Adam Carter/Tom Quinn, Bruce Banner/Pepper Potts/Tony Stark, Clint Barton/Phil Coulson
Additional Tags: Abandoned Work - Unfinished and Discontinued, Multiple Work Compilation, kink bingo, thwarted suicide, Corsetry, Family Fluff, Camping, Wedding, Multiple Major Character Deaths, Immurement, time traveling serial killers, Apocafic, The 28th Amendment Universe, Stitches, Crossover, Avengers Merchandise, Vampires, Quidditch, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Wakes & Funerals, Alternate Universe - Gender Changes, The Search For Bucky
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 14/?

“Javert,” Jean says looking not at Javert, but at the rushing waters of the Seine below. “If you are to throw yourself into the river, throw only your name.”

“My name, Valjean?” Javert asks, catching Jean’s eye. 

“Leave Javert here, and come with me, another man.”

“Men cannot change,” Javert replies.

“They can. Throw your name into the river, and come with me. I shall prove it to you.”

This started as a fill for "Vanilla Kink" on my Kink Bingo card.

"You should wear a corset more often," John growls against Helen's neck.

"I wasn't wearing it for you," Helen replies. "The dress doesn't work without it."

"I like the dress as well. It reminds me of those halcyon Oxford days."

"And here you are, wearing flip-flops."

"Sandals, and you didn't tell me this was Victorian Friday," John says with a grin. "Perhaps there was a memo."

"No memo," she replies. "Though if this were Victorian Friday, you'd be obscenely under dressed. Not even a waistcoat."

"So this was for me." John circles Helen, and she can feel his eyes on her body.

"Perhaps," she says, a blush rising in her cheeks. "Though the mission at hand called for it as well."

"Well then, my lady, perhaps a stroll in the garden, if we could find a proper chaperon, would be to your liking?" John holds out his hand, and Helen takes it. Muscle memory is strong.

"I doubt you could find a proper chaperon here. Young Kate would most likely tell us to get a room." Young Kate would probably laugh her head off, and then suggest quite a few things for them to get up to, if she didn't pull her gun and ask which one of them was possessed.

"And isn't that a refreshing change of pace, no one caring if we are proper or not?" His smile is wistful now, lost in memories of better days.

"It does take some of the fun out of sneaking kisses in the garden, though," Helen replies to lighten the mood. "Always wondering if we were going to be caught and chastised."

"I want to do so much more than kiss you now, Helen." John's voice is low and gravely, and it raises goosebumps on Helen's skin. She hadn't planned this, not exactly, but she'd been considering the possibility ever since John caught sight of her.

"That wouldn't be proper at all," she says with a sly grin. "And I doubt you remember how to get me out of my stays."

"I would never forget, my dear, never," John says, and takes Helen by the hand, pulling her into her rooms, and setting about proving her wrong.

His fingers work at the clothing, but his mouth is preoccupied with her skin. There are so many fiddly bits that just aren't a part of the modern woman's wardrobe, but he uses each one as an excuse to linger over her, running his fingers over the curving seams of her neckline, every once in a while brushing skin. Helen is actually surprised that he remembers the intricacies of Victorian garb. She is not at all surprised at the pleasure his mere fingertips can bring her still fully dressed.

By the time John has removed her outer layers, Helen is wishing for a pair of safety shears. She wants to be naked now, and she growls as John nips at her neck, urging him on.

"Patience, patience. These clothes weren't designed for easy removal, you know," he says as he fumbles with her corset strings.

She's forgotten how to do this, and she goes light headed when John gets frustrated and pops the hooks and eyes.

"Don't swoon on me now," he says, kissing the bare skin of her shoulder as she leans against him to take a deep breath.

She kisses the top of his head while his tongue is distracted by her collar bone. "I don't intend on it."

John runs his hand up her sides, pushing the camisole up and over her head so that she is finally nude before him. "You are stunning."

"And you are not nearly naked enough," she says back, smirk firmly in place, as she pulls his shirt up and over his head. His pants follow quickly.

"'Helen," John says, as she runs her hand down his chest.

She leans down and kisses him long and hard.

Originally this was formatted as a newspaper article, but I seem to only have the text. It was supposed to be the start of a bit of AU batfam fluff.

Bruce Wayne is once again grabbing media attention, but it is no longer for his playboy ways. In his twenties and thirties, Wayne was romantically linked with most of Gotham’s prominent socialites from Selina Kyle to Julie Madison. These days, however, Wayne focuses on being a father.

“The house seems empty if the kids aren’t home,” Wayne said, when asked about his shift in priorities. “I never expected to be a father, but these kids have brought such joy into my home and my life.”

Bruce Wayne formally announced today that Damian Wayne is his biological son, and that he will be seeking full custody of the boy. Damian, who just turned eleven, is currently residing at Wayne Manor with his father and siblings. Wayne did not comment on the identity of Damian’s mother.

“I’m both proud and lucky to be able to call Damian my son and the newest part of the Wayne family,” Wayne remarked.

Wayne previously adopted four other children: Richard Grayson, Jason Todd, Cassandra Cain, and Timothy Drake. Dick Grayson, twenty-nine, now serves on Bludhaven’s police force, but is most well known to readers of the society pages for his broken engagement to Barbara Gordon, daughter of police commissioner, Jim Gordon. Grayson and Barbara Gordon remain friends, and Gordon is often sighted at Wayne Manor. 

Tragically, Jason Todd is perhaps more remembered for his death than his life. Eight years ago, sixteen year old Todd was brutally murdered by the Joker during the same rampage that paralysed Barbara Gordon. 

Cass Cain, nineteen, avoids the limelight so often shone on the Wayne children. Fiercely intelligent and blessed with the grace of a ballerina, Cass prefers school and home life to Gotham’s social scene. 

Tim Drake, seventeen, is a junior at the Gotham School. Drake recently won the Gotham City Science Competition, and is being recruited by several prominent universities. 

While interviewing Wayne, a Kennedy-esque game of touch football broke out on the back lawn of Wayne manor. Grayson teamed up with Damian and family friend, Kate Kane, to take on Cain, Drake, and Drake’s girlfriend, Stephanie Brown, while Gordon refereed. 

“Usually, I’d be out there,” Wayne remarked, “but I wouldn’t want to put you in the line of fire. Damian has really taken to the game, and he and Dick lost the last go round, so they’ll be anxious to regain their title.”

Its clear from his manner that there is no other place Bruce Wayne would choose to be. 

As most readers will remember, Bruce Wayne, himself, is an orphan. He was the only survivor of a mugging that took the lives of his parents Thomas and Martha Wayne. Thomas Wayne built Wayne Enterprises into one of Gotham most prominent businesses before his death, and both Thomas and Martha Wayne were deeply involved in Gotham society circles. Wayne Enterprises, currently helmed by Lucius Fox, continues to be one of Gotham’s most successful companies. 

Bruce Wayne has been even more successful than the company that bears his name. Wayne has built himself a family to fill the once empty halls of Wayne manor with a family his father would be proud of.

Series finale au of pain, as I do.

“And here’s the happy couple!” the DJ exclaims into the mike. Dean ducks his head as the entire room turns to look at him and Clark. They are clapping and smiling, and soon enough he’s being pulled away from Clark so that everyone at the reception can hug him.

Clark pulls Dean on to the dance floor as the DJ starts up their song.

“I love you,” Dean whispers, figuring if there is any moment to be a sappy romantic, it is during your first dance at your wedding reception. They get halfway through the song before Izzy grabs Sadie’s hand and they are joined by the two girls on the dance floor. Both are beautiful in their flower girl dresses, but every time Clark’s mom looks at them she break into tears again. 

Everyone had cried when they lit the memorial candles. Clark had lifted Izzy up and they had lit Ed’s together, while Dean and Sadie lit one for his dad and hers. 

The music changes, and they kiss once again before breaking apart. Clark’s going to dance with his mom, but Dean still isn’t speaking to his mom, and besides, Jules has been more of a parent to him than anyone else since his father died. That first awful month, they’d kept watch together at the hospital, waiting for dad to die. 

At first, they’d just sat there, sat there and stared at dad’s unmoving body. There wasn’t much else they could do. Neither wanted to return to empty houses, filled with reminders, and so Jules sat by dad’s right hand, between him in the door, just daring any more danger to cross his threshold. Dean took the chair between the bed and the wall, and watched as his father faded away. By the end of the first week, he’d start keeping watch on Jules, too. 

It was six weeks before dad died. One last shuddering breath and then nothing at all. Dean hadn’t known what to do. How could there be a next after this? His dad was dead, and Clark couldn’t walk, and Jules’ husband was dead, too. 

They’d sat there with his father’s body for what seemed like an eternity. It was Mr. Lane who had finally roused them out of their chair, and with Mrs. Lane’s help, packed them up into her minivan and taken them to the Lane’s house. Dean had spent a week there, in Clark’s room, without Clark, and when Jules finally decided to leave, he went with her. They’d been family ever since.

So now on this dance floor, that was supposed to be the beginning of many happy memories, Dean took the hand Jules offered, and attempted not to step on her toes. “Your dad would be so proud of you, Dean,” she says quietly.

“Yeah?” he asks, because he’s always thought of his dad being proud of people who ran into burning buildings to save other people. He’s known, ever since he’d come to Toronto, that his dad loved him, but it’s always been harder to believe his dad would be proud of him.

“Yeah,” Jules confirms, and Dean trusts her to know.

I'm pretty sure I was writing this for someone, but the identity of that person wasn't noted in the file. This was going to involve the worst NORBAC camping trip ever, and end up with David being carried out of a canyon with a broken leg.

Carlos knows this is all going to go badly even before he even gets to the trailhead. David’s “Biomedical Wilderness Skills Course”--more commonly known at NORBAC as David’s grant-funded backpacking vacation--isn’t exactly a bad idea. They do end up traversing the wilderness more often than Carlos would have suspected when David hired him on, and it's not a bad idea for David to make sure his staff can survive out in the wild. Carlos suspects it's a bad idea for David to be the one doing the teaching, especially when he sees what David has packed for the occasion.

David looks green in the morning, but he waves off Carlos’ concerned face as he stumbles over to where Bob is making coffee over a tiny camp stove. Bob packs like he’s packing for the apocalypse. David packs masks, sterile gloves and maybe some food and water.

This was going to be in the same universe as Doesn't Count, wherein Keith and Will were college roommates and end up hating each other and also sleeping together, as one does.

MacKenzie McHale spent four years in a warzone and a whole childhood in the presence of Marines. She’s pretty good at knowing when a disagreement is going to turn to yelling and when yelling is going to lead to punching.

She never sees the punch Keith Olbermann throws at Will McAvoy’s jaw coming.

They’re in a green room at the Paley Center, ACN piled on top of MSNBC for reasons she’s already forgotten. MacKenzie’s known Keith almost as long as she’s known Will, and they’ve known each other since college, so the atmosphere had started off jovial enough. It goes downhill quickly. 

Rachel pulls Sloane behind her and the two of them share a look of surprised concern. That’s the moment Mackenzie figures it out, Rachel’s hand on Sloane’s. Rachel and Sloane are together. Rachel and Sloane are together, and the boys are using them as an excuse to continue a fight that’s been going on since they were sixteen years old and were forced together as Cornell’s own resident geniuses.


This is the future.



Olivia Dunham holds Emily Prentiss' mangled body and doesn't cry. 


The note at the top of this file said: The BAU catches a case of a time traveling serial killer, who is brings his victims forward in time (and across universes) to after his death to kill via immurment. The Fringe division comes in to take over and instead ends up sharing the case with the BAU. The murders and cross 'verse hopping are causing something worse than these women's deaths, it's causing every conceivable alternate dimension to fold in on each other and the entirety of existence to be destroyed.

What this actually is: tiny bits of horrible angst, where-in the case never really manages to make much of an appearance.

This is the future.

Olivia Dunham holds Emily Prentiss' mangled body and doesn't cry.

***

"Who is that?" Peter asks with an appreciative tone. He's looking at one of the FBI agents down from DC. Kevlar still on, long, dark ponytail, and a gun in the holster. Olivia doesn't recognize her until she turns around. It's not a face you forget, even under the bruises.

"Emily Prentiss."

"You know her?'

"We went through Quantico together."

"Introduce me."

"Not this time."

"Olivia," Peter says with that look on his face.

She sighs. "Later. Work now."

The building is relatively new, a library built off the internet boom of the nineties. They wouldn't be here at all, but a drunk driver had plowed through the front doors and exposed the arm of Sarah Ellen Grey. The BAU has been on the case for two weeks, three dead bodies immured in public buildings. Fringe division had only been called in because of the temporal issue, and Olivia is pretty sure the invite hadn't been voluntary.

***

This is the future.

Olivia drags Emily after her, limping and bleeding. The air shimmers around them and it's hard to tell what is solid and what is not. It doesn't help that everything is in a state of flux, changing from solid to liquid to gas without so much as a warning.

***

Prentiss keeps one eye on Hotch and the other on the scene. There is no time off anymore; not for injuries, not for deaths, not for anything, so the team is still in the field. It's the fourth consecutive case they've worked. Homicide is up forty seven percent, and almost all of that is serial in nature. Things have been getting bad for a while. Recession are often a trigger, but no one knows why so many abnormal serial killers are showing up; the Foyets and the Franks. 

***

This is the future.

Derek Morgan puts five bullets into the unsub, but it's not enough to save the girl. She's been dead three days.

It's not enough to kill the man, the thing, either.

***

To Olivia it looks like a shift of color. Subtle, but powerful. She shakes her head and looks again, and now she sees instead, that everyone in the room is haunted by an extra shadow.

Prentiss and Hotch are still crouched next to the body, while Reid recites something about the building code. They don't seem to notice that anything is different, but Peter does. He is staring at her.

"You saw it too?" she says more than asks.

"Like someone just walked over my grave," Peter answers with a shiver.

***

This is the future.

Aaron Hotchner stands at the back of the church and watches his son marry his bride.

He slips out after the kiss, while Jack only has eyes for his wife, and walks out into the blinding sun and tries to remember why he's still alive.

***

He's tearing the world one and they're trapped in his game. Each woman dead rips the hole larger, each woman dead leaves another self sharing their brains. Olivia at least has practice with this, knows what it's like to share her brain. It's not so easy for the others. Truly, it's not so easy for her anymore. There are twelve hers in her brain, twelve hers and John. It's worse for Emily she knows. Olivia Dunham was born to fight, to survive, to prevail. Emily Prentiss, it seems, was born for pain and loss and grief. She says there are only three other Emilys. Three other Emilys, and nine hollow sucking black holes, where Emily Prentisses overdosed, or died having a back alley abortions, or hung themselves, or were beaten to death by an angry husband or shot to death by an angry unsub.

***

This is the future.

There is no future, after all.

Rachel Maddow and Emily Prentiss and surviving the end of the world.

The first American she fucks after is an FBI agent. Was an FBI agent. Rachel's not sure how this works anymore so she tries not to think. Instead she buries herself in Emily Prentiss' mouth, kissing her as if the world is about to end. The world has already ended.

Rachel winds her fingers through Emily's hair, and thinks only of smooth skin and warm hands. Of searching fingers and roving tongues. She resolutely thinks of nothing but the woman in her bed.

Emily leaves before the sun comes up. It's almost a year before Rachel sees her again.

***

Emily appears in Rachel's kitchen, leaning heavily on Steve. She's just in time for dinner and bleeding sluggishly from a head wound.

Still, it's Emily and Rachel sighs.

Rachel hands Emily a shot of whiskey before Kristen does the stitches over her eye.

"It'll scar," Kristen says. "I'm not really a doctor."

Emily just waves her on.

If she was willing to stay in Canada, to give up her border hopping ways, they could take her to hospital. She could have a plastic surgeon, whatever she needed. She'd be an American refugee, a freedom fighter. They're the cause celebrity right now. Rachel could get her anything she needed.

There's a price though, one Emily won't pay, and so instead of staying here, staying with Rachel and waking up in a warm bed with a willing woman, Emily Prentiss is letting a comedian put stitches in without anesthesia. Emily gasps as the needle pierces her flesh and then bites down on her lip and is silent.

Emily is silent about a lot of things.

In which, the Avengers meet their cartoon selves.

Tony plops down on the couch, bowl of Fruit Loops in hand. It's Saturday morning in Stark Tower, and that means kid's cereal and cartoons with Bruce. Which is usually an excellent way to start (or just as often, end) the day. Except Bruce is looking a little perplexed. And when Bruce looks anything but the purest of zen calm, Tony starts cataloging backup plans.

"What's up?" he asks, before spooning cereal into his mouth.

Bruce merely points to the screen. On which an animated Hulk is smashing.

"The other guy gets a cartoon?" Tony asks. "I want a cartoon!"

"It's an Avengers cartoon. So, you are, in fact, a cartoon," Bruce says with the faintest trace of a smirk.

"I'm a cartoon! This is excellent! JARVIS! Pepper! I'm a cartoon!" Tony gleefully bounces off of the couch.

"Was that in question?" JARVIS asks, in full snark mode.

Bruce murmurs, "Seriously," but Tony ignores them both. Ever since the Avengers saved New York, there've been Avengers products. Tony gets sent action figures and shoes and t-shirts on a near daily basis. This, though, this is better. Now there is a tiny animated him teaching the children of the world how to grow up and be awesome.

"JARVIS, how many episodes of this cartoon are there?"

"Three. It just entered the television lineup. There are eighteen episodes in this season," JARVIS replies.

"More if they get renewed," Tony says with a grin.

Bruce laughs, "Before you start plotting world domination, sit down and watch an entire episode and make sure you actually like being a cartoon."

***JARVIS puts Avengers: The Mightiest Animated Warriors into the DVR lineup before Tony can even ask him to. What's perhaps more surprising is the other Avengers who come to him with the same request.

Steve is the first to ask, after Tony. JARVIS had not anticipated that. His calculations had suggested that it would be Clint who asked first. Steve is less adept at modern technology, and less interested in modern entertainment. Still, Steve waits until he's alone in the Tower.

"Uh, JARVIS?" he asks tentatively.

"What may I do for you?"

"Is there anyway to save the episodes of the Avengers cartoon, so that I could watch them later?"

"Of course, sir,," JARVIS announces, and then walks Steve through the steps of retrieving television shows from the DVR. "The first four episodes are available via the menu, Captain."

"Thanks, JARVIS," Steve says.

"Groceries were delivered this morning. There is popcorn in the kitchen if you are interested." JARVIS monitors food intake in the Tower for inventory purposes, but he is also aware of Captain Rodgers caloric needs.

Steve grins. "Thanks, JARVIS."

***

“Come on,” Clint says in his best puppy dog voice. It’s Saturday morning, and usually that means spending the morning in the gym, lifting weights and then sparring, at least for Natasha and him. Cap and Thor join them sometimes, but Tony has already dragged them out for waffles, and Bruce likes to spend his mornings in the lab.

Natasha rolls her eyes. “No.” 

“But, this is my episode,” Clint says. His tone of voice slips into more of a whine than he really meant it to, but Natasha sighs.

“Fine, but we work out afterwards.” Natasha folds herself onto the couch next to him. 

“Excellent,” Clint exclaims, and flips the television on to the right channel.

The opening sequence is set in a punk-pop song about saving the world. The Hulk smashes across the screen, followed by Thor and Iron Man flying across the screen. Cap runs in, and then Black Widow, and Hawkeye jumps down from the A in Avengers. Clint bops to the beat, even after Natasha thwacks him on the leg. 

“You look fetching in purple,” she says with a smile.

“I look fetching in anything,” Clint replies, though he’s a little confused as to why the artists decided purple tights were the way to go for his character. Green tights, at least, would’ve made some sort of literary sense. 

Animated Hawkeye is a little too skinny and a little too tall to resemble Clint exactly, but it not a bad match. Animated Hawkeye flips through the enemy horde, shooting arrows right and left when Clint realizes exactly what the enemy horde is made up of. They’re zombie vikings, and an animated version of Loki has just appeared on the screen to confirm Clint suspicions.

Natasha catches his eye and raises an eyebrow, but he just shakes his head minutely. Animated Loki is dissimilar enough from his corporeal self, and Clint isn’t going to be bothered by a children’s show. 

On the screen, Loki turns Clint’s arrows in jell-o, and then bats Iron Man across the screen. And then suddenly all the animated Avengers freeze. “I grow weary of this. I require your assistance, not your enmity. Sleipnir has been kidnapped,” Animated Loki says, still holding the Avengers in place.

“Brother,” Animated Thor says, “The Avengers will help you rescue your son! Release us, and we will find Sleipnir, and deal with whatever villainous personage who has accosted him.”

“What?” Clint exclaims, as the credits roll. “We would never help Loki.”

“Cartoon, Clint,” Natasha says.

“There’s a difference between putting me in purple tights and making us help Loki. He tried to destroy New York!” Clint doesn’t mention the other things Loki has done. It’s not something he wants to talk about if he doesn’t have to. 

“Writers never get it right,” Natasha says with a shrug. “Come on, let’s go spar.”

“Yeah, okay,” Clint says, and let her pull him off the couch. “It’s just a kid’s show, anyway.”

Nikola being Nikola.

Set in the There is Magic in Science 'verse, probably is only funny if you've read that.

"I joined the Qudditch team," Nikola says.

"You're a vampire, that's cheating," James replies, as Nigel snickers.

"I told them. They argued about whether it was canon compliant enough, but they didn't actually care as long as I don’t go around biting people," Nikola says with a shrug.

James just sighs.

I think this was supposed to be pwp that tried to develop plot instead of porn.

The paramedics are fussing over her when Cho walks through the door of the cabin, Rigsby hot on his heels. Cho looks grimmer than normal, and Rigsby looks like he about to hyperventilate, but all that can be explained by Craig O'Laughlin's dead body, still on the floor.

Cho flips open his phone, listens for a moment, and sits down abruptly, still listening. When he hangs up, his face is pale. "Boss," he says, "Jane killed Red John. We left him at the mall. He shot him three times in the chest."

Jane was right. She hates when Jane is right. Especially about this. She'd promised Jane that she would be there to stop him when the time came to arrest Red John. She'd promised handcuffs and Miranda Rights and a fair trial. And Jane had said right then and there that he would take his revenge and nothing she did would stop him. She had really believed that this time he would be wrong.

Jane was, of course, right. She wasn't there. There were no handcuffs or Miranda Rights or a fair trial. There is just Jane and Red John and three bullets to the chest.

***

She wants to bang his head against a wall, but instead, she picks him up when they let him walk out of the jail. He's in clean clothes, probably provided by Van Pelt.

"Fuck you, Jane," she yells and pushes him against the wall as hard as she can. She keeps pushing, over and over, until he grabs her arms.

"Lisbon," he whispers. "Shh, it's okay."

"It's not fucking okay, Jane. Not. Okay." She tries to pull away, but his hands are wrapped all the way around her arms, and he's pulled her in close, right up against his chest.

"It's okay, Lisbon," he says and again, and then leans down and kisses her. "Everything is fine."

"You killed a man," she says.

"I did," he replies, and then kisses her again. "I said I was going to kill Red Jane and I did. I am a man of my word, Lisbon."

"You are so lucky, you bastard. You should be in jail for the rest of your life. I know Red John wasn't pointing that gun at you."

"He was not," Jane says, and leans down and kisses her again. This time she shoves them both against the wall, and turns his gentle kiss into a clashing, fierce thing, full of her angry and her worry and her pain.

She wants to break him apart, show him to the world for the man his is. A man of his word. A murderer. The person who had wormed his way into her life and sent it end over end.

"No more secrets. Show me yourself, Jane," she says, not knowing if she really wants to see inside him, or if she's already had enough truth for one day. She needs

"Everything. I'll show you everything," he says, and Jane has proven beyond the shadow of a doubt that he is a man of his word, at least for her.

Harry's sharp inhale lets Lucas know that Tom's appearance at Adam's memorial service is a surprise. It probably doesn't help that Wes runs to him, and Tom scoops the child up like he's his. They stay that way, Tom holding Wes, as Lucas and Harry stare on. No one else seems to recognize Tom beside Malcolm and themselves.

Tom slips into a pew upfront and pulls in Wes beside him and Harry's eyes never leave them. So Lucas watched Harry and Harry watches Tom and the only thing Tom has eyes for is Wes and the coffin which contains Adam's earthly remains.

The funeral is solemn and Wes remains tucked under Tom's arm until it is time to carry the casket out. Lucas and Tom stand opposite of one another, Adam between them. There are so many questions he should be asking right now, questions the service demands of him. Instead, he whispers, "How are you holding up?"

"Lucas," Tom says, like he's seeing him for the first time. "How?"

Lucas knows exactly what he's asking. "I'm with Harry."

The completely gender switched AU project that never really got off the ground.

Tam’s plan is to get the professor out, but Ada has other thoughts. “We’re going to mine,” Ada says, and then drags Tam into a cab over her protests. Her flat is nice, much nicer then Tam’s. Done up like someone who knew what they were doing had been in charge of the decorating.

“Harry sent you after me,” Tam says, it’s not a question, not really. Not with the way Ada refused to take no for an answer.

“I read between some lines, but yes,” Ada says. “Now drink up, and get some sleep and Harry might not kill us both in the morning.”

“How would you know?” Tam asks, suspicious for a moment, but not too much, since she knocks back the drink.

“I’ve known Harry since I was a wee little lass just out of training. Let’s just say I owe her enough that this doesn’t even count as a favor.” Ada sits beside Tam, and refills her glass.

“More than money or intelligence, we save the world on the power of Harry’s bank of favors,” Tam says with a sigh.

“I’ll drink to that,” Ada says, and clinks her glass against Tam’s.

*

Tam comes awake with a groan. Usually, she wakes up instantly. Peter trained her for that. Today though, everything is a foggy haze. It takes her a moment to figure out where she is: Ada’s couch, and longer to figure out she’s been drugged. At least she’s still fully clothed and unrestrained. Most of the time when she wakes up feeling like this she is not in such good conditions.

“Morning, sleepy head,” says an unfamiliar male voice. 

Tam manages to mumble something that sounds like a question, but she’s not quite up to sitting up yet.

“Finn Carter, Ada’s husband. Want some tea?”

“Please,” she manages, and once he’s out of the room, she gets herself up right. Tam’s on her own two feet and about to make her way to the kitchen, when the front door opens. 

Ada bounces in, like she hadn’t drugged Tam to sleep last night, and says, “Do I smell tea?”

“And biscuits!” Finn calls from the kitchen.

Ada smiles at Tam. “Come on, he makes amazing biscuits and I’m betting you’re hungry.”

Tam’s stomach rumbles at the words, and Ada throws her head back and laughs. Ada drags her to the kitchen, pushing her towards a barstool, and Finn sets a cup of tea and a plate of chocolate biscuits in front of her.

“I won’t end up unconscious again if I drink this?” Tam asks. 

“Harry wants you back on the Grid today, and I try and avoid the wrath of Harry,” Ada says. “So nothing but tea this time.”

Tam takes a tentative sip, and the hot liquid rushes through her system, waking her all the way up. 

“The prof and his family are safe, and we caught the bad guys. Thought you should know,” Ada offers.

***

Ada Carter knows this job inside and out, and still takes pleasure in the days gone right, a thing it looks as if Tam Quinn has lost. It’s why she drags her back to the safehouse she and Finn are currently using as temporary housing, and its why she makes Tam sleep.

Sleep, Ada knows, cures many things. She’s had enough trouble getting it herself over the years, that she also knows sometimes you need help to get there. Ada likes helping people, though she generally prefers it to be via an adrenaline pounding chase scene. There is nothing like a runner’s high combined with saving the world once again.

***

Harry’s eyes are screaming Tring when Tam walks into her office. Maybe she’s reading too much into it, but Harry is clearly still stepping lightly, like she’s primed to explode. Considering Tam had walked out of the office fully planning on what could be looked on as an act of treason, it’s not so surprising.

“Tommy,” Harry says gently, and she flinches, can’t help but flinch. Peter called her Tommy, dragged her into all of this with a “Tommy, your country needs you.”

“Tamsin,” she corrects, not meeting Harry’s eyes.

“You could retire you know, go somewhere warm. The service would see to it that you were taken care of,” Harry says.

“No,” Tam replies. 

“Then you’ll go to Tring.”

“Harry, I’m fine,” she says.

“You are remarkably not fine, Tamsin.”

“I just needed some sleep to get my head back on straight, and Ada provided sleep in droves,” Tam argues.

“You’ll take some leave. This is my last offer,” and Tam knows this is Harry doing her best to be kind.

“Fine.”

***

“No worries,” Ada says, and wanders off to where Zane and Dani are trying to look like they’re not watching, while gathering as much intel as possible. Tam doesn’t know what they think has happened, but it’s obvious that she’s not been dismissed from the service or dead, and everything else is fixable.

Ada’s been slapping her on the back and telling her not to worry since they first met, back when Tam put her life in Ada’s hands for the first time. Back when Ada talked a woman into killing herself to save Tam and the service. Tam has almost started to believe her.

Zane follows Dani over when Tam heads for her desk. Dani likes to lead, likes to run into danger, while Zane is thinking, calculating, moving in circles to find the best approach.

 

***

With Tam gone on leave, Ada takes up the slack. Five is a different beast than Six, but not one she’s unfamiliar with. Harry is Harry, just as she has always been, and Tam has built a good team.

Dani and Zane are prickly at first, but she earns their trust quickly enough.

***

Tam’s forced to watch the whole debacle on the telly. Agent X goes down in legislative flames, and the world rejoices over the fairness and transparency of the British government. Harry won’t let her anywhere near the Grid, not for another two weeks, but Ada fills her in on the bait and switch they played, after. Zane is safely out of the service, somewhere far, far away. She’d always fancied him a bit, not that she’d ever cross that line. It would’ve destroyed what little reputation she had left. Still, it hurts not to get to say goodbye, to be stuck here unable to fix things. It’s all Tam has ever wanted, to set things to right. 

 

Tam comes back to a subdued Grid. Rowan smiles with sad eyes, and Mal gives her a quick pat on the shoulder. Dani follows her around like a puppy dog that’s lost its mum.

Ada just tries to stay out of her way.

***

Ada should be going back to Six, now that Tam is back, but Harry is in no hurry to return her and they’re a man down with Zane gone away.

***

Elliott had fucked her up but good. She’d stood and watched as he’d held Maisie, and waited helplessly for them both to die, and later, once they were all safe, he’d yelled at her, said things that could never be taken back, about how she was a bad person, and a bad role model and how she never really could’ve been a mum, anyway. 

Even after that, she’s tried to get him to forgive her. The second time he hadn’t yelled, had only told her that her job was no career for a decent woman, and that if she quit, he'd take care of them both. Tam’s not sure what it says about her that it's not the cruel words that drive her away, but the lack of understanding about what she does that ends the relationship.

Chris had been even more disastrous, with his attempt to sell her out to save his own skin. 

Tonight was supposed to be an attempt to get over all of that. All of that, and Zane, but here she is, in the pub with Dani and Ada, her date escaped from using tricks learned in the service of her country. “I’m giving up on men.”

Which, in retrospect, hadn’t been the smartest thing Tam had ever said either. Ada seems to take it for permission to follow her out of the bar, push her against the rough brick wall, and kiss her senseless. 

***

Mal and Colleen have their heads bent together over the latest crossword. Every morning its crosswords and coffee for the two of them, and Tam thinks it's probably been that way since they met. Mal came into Five with Harry, back in the heady days of the Cold War, when they were two girls out to prove themselves. Colleen is younger, she grew up building robots and programing in BASIC. She’s Mal first and only protege. Mal trained Colleen up to be her perfect other half and the two are inseparable, and so very good at what they do. 

 

***

Ada looks at the man sitting across from her, and knows this day has just gone down the toilet. 

“We have your husband,” he says. “If you do as we say, we will return him to you.”

*

Tam doesn’t hear the gunshot, though she finds out later that Ada had. 

She does see the aftermath. Dani’s dead on the floor and Finn is being rushed into an ambulance, Ada following hot on their heels. By the time the paramedics have Dani bagged, Harry and Rowan have arrived.

Tam watches as Rowan unzips the body bag, gently touching Dani’s face. He talks to her slow and soft and Tam’s heart breaks all over again.

***

The funerals are painful. Finn’s is first. Closed casket, minimal outsiders. Just his parents and Wes, who runs straight for Harry when he sees her and won’t let go.

Dani’s funeral is worse. There is a full contingent of family: mother, father, brothers, aunt, uncles. And a rumble followed by a cacophony of pagers. 

Harry leads them out, Zaf, Mal and Ada. 

***

They’re like the double helix of destructive spirals. Ada does her fifteen minutes in Tring like a good girl, and Harry doesn’t even yell too much when she finds out that Tam’s read Ada in on Songbird. And so Ada works, and Tam works, and Zaf and Joe try and makes sure nothing flies out of control.

***

“I see Harry’s Angels are in attendance,” Jools says with a smirk.

Tam Quinn suppresses the urge to roll her eyes, Ada Carter doesn’t bother. She’s been rolling her eyes at Jools Siviter for most of her career. Ross Myers just stands like he doesn’t know Jools is including him in the group.

“What do you want?” Harry asks, as if she has all the patience in the world.

“Nothing much, just some domestic clean up that Five can handle for big sister.

Written and abandoned post-Avengers, before we knew anything else.

“Tony, stop trying to turning your boyfriend green by flirting with me,” Darcy says in between yawns. “I know you like them extra large and all, but not this early in the morning.”

Bruce shoots her a shy smile, and Tony keeps on grumbling, but she ignores both of them and makes straight for the coffee pot. Tony, or rather, Tony’s robots, have thankfully seen to it that the pot is kept full. 

Of course, the rest of them are all just waking up early, Tony hasn’t been to bed yet. Or possibly he slept in his grease marked t-shirt and jeans. Not that Pepper lets him sleep in their bed like that, but Pepper is in Hong Kong this week, leaving Darcy and Coulson to be the voice of reason in the Avengers Tower, and Bruce to be the arbiter of proper bed wear. 

Coulson pushes his mug out, and she fills it, too, even with Clint hovering. Darcy knows who is scarier, and the man with the arrows isn’t it.

“You’re supposed to be limiting your caffeine intake,” Clint says. He’s been in mother hen mode ever since Coulson was released from the hospital two weeks ago. Not that you’d know that Coulson had spent the two months in a coma and another two months in recovery. He’s sitting at the kitchen island in a neatly pressed suit, maybe looking a bit pale, but not even the slightest bit rumpled. Clint on the other hand, is sitting on the island in worn purple t-shirt and plaid bed pants that actually belong to Thor (they’d been a present from Steve, who felt strongly about Thor not showing up nude in the common areas. Thor had appreciated the present, but not gotten the message at all.)

“We heard anything?” Darcy asks, bolting her first cup of coffee, before pouring herself a refill. This time she doesn’t refill Coulson’s mug, mostly because Clint physically blocks her from doing so. Coulson just shrugs and give her that half-smile she’s quickly come to interpret as “what can you do, superheros.” 

Three days ago, Steve and Natasha had disappeared, telling Thor, the only person who’d been at the Tower at the time that there was something they’d needed to take care of. Thor had offered his help, which had been declined, and asked no more questions. Avengers, Darcy had quickly learned ran off to do their own thing all the time, no use worrying too much about it. 

Except, Tony got cranky when Steve was gone, and Clint kept looking for Natasha over his shoulder. And when Tony was cranky Bruce got extra zen and forced them all to drink tea, which only made Tony crankier and more likely to give the toaster artificial intelligence. Even worse, Clint had already been off kilter from the whole, hey, your boyfriend isn’t really dead, thing, and so Natasha’s disappearance has only turned him into a even bigger mother hen over his remaining chicks. Let’s just say, Darcy never ever wants to have to drink chamomile tea again, it tastes too much like guilt and worry, and also, chamomile.