Title: With My Life
Work ID: 9065812
Author: bazemayonnaise', 'Ninjaninaiii (bazemayonnaise)
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Bahorel/Feuilly, Enjolras/Grantaire
Additional Tags: minor jehan / montparnasse, Minor Joly/Bossuet Laigle/Musichetta, Non-Binary Jehan, Transgender Enjolras, Alternate Universe - Vampire, Alternate Universe - Werewolf, Families of Choice, Implied/Referenced Suicide, Madeleine Era, Post-Canon, Fix-It, Vampire Hunters, Asexual Relationship, Implied/Referenced Alcohol Abuse/Alcoholism, Implied/Referenced Drug Use, What started as a crack-y Twilight AU is now a serious fic, Case Fic, Self Harm, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Slow Burn, Not Beta Read, Canonical Character Death
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 13/13


“Here. Drink this.” Javert could not lift his head up enough to see what was being offered to him, his sore neck and tired body too tired to support even the simplest movements. Not that he would be able to see in the darkness of the room anyway; packed away in the corner opposite the dead Mabouf’s body, the dawning day’s sunlight could barely reach them. 



Whatever it was, Javert was not about to accept it from this… beast. He would prefer dehydration, death, to accepting pity from Jean Valjean.



What he got instead was a gruff “don’t be a fool, Javert,” and the lip of the glass bottle pressed against his parched own. “Please drink, or you shall die.” Javert might have been surprised about the amount of emotion in the voice above him, but perhaps the convict did not want to kill a man on the brink of death. Perhaps Valjean wanted to slay the slayer in his prime.



Either way, Javert drank: an almost involuntary action, his body desperate enough to fight his damning mind. He couldn’t handle more than a couple of gulps, a wetting of the tongue more than a drink, but still he choked, spitting out some of the liquid.



Valjean sighed and Javert couldn’t help but frown, needing not to look weak, especially now. “I have tasted too much of my own blood tonight,” Javert excused, licking his lips as if he could still feel blood on them. “All I can taste is salt and iron.” Javert felt Valjean shift underneath him (the sheer embarrassment of being propped up by the man was enough in itself.) 



“Drink,” was all the man said, and Javert could admit to himself that he was starting to feel better for doing so. He could swallow now without the grating sensation he’d had to suffer through since his capture, and his eyes were not quite as sandpaper-dry. Valjean brought the bottle up again and Javert drank more readily, though the bloody taste still permeated. 



He swallowed in quick gulps, adjusting to the taste and finding it not as bad as it had been that first sip. Wine, his mind supplied, what with the sudden wooziness coming over him. He hadn’t eaten for days through the insurrection, nor had he been given water, nor indeed, was he partial to drink from the outset. He disliked the taste of wine, the clouding of the mind, the actions it made too many respectable people commit, all in addition to the price, an expenditure he would rather spend on ink or bread.



Javert knew that alcohol on an empty stomach proved to make for horrible nights, but despite the light-headedness, the clawing of hunger had begun to dissipate, as if he’d gorged himself on a full meal.



What a sight he must be for Valjean, for any of the schoolchildren still fighting outside: a human spy, raw around the throat from the noose he’d been near-hung by, being bottle-fed by a criminal potentially hundreds, if not thousands of years older than he. The criminal Javert had been chasing since youth. He finally had the man in his grasp, and here he was being cradled by the fiend.



A fiend. A monster. Vampire. Javert didn’t know where his weapons were, but he assumed the children had taken them away, perhaps burned the hidden stakes, melted the crucifixes, thrown his vials of holy water down the sewers.



A sudden, ridiculous panic came over him. He would laugh at himself, were he not currently so pathetically weak. While itemising the possessions he had had on him during his capture, he had thought about the rosary he had been given over a decade ago by a man he’d thought of as a benefactor. He had carried the thing about his person partially as a reminder that he could not trust anyone but himself, and partially because he could not bear to throw it away.



Javert and Monsieur Madeleine had spent four years bonding, and though Javert knew better than to covet the memories, he allowed himself the deathbed pleasure of letting himself reminisce. The keepsake was all he had had from a time he had considered himself genuinely content. Happy, almost.



Of course, he’d stopped relying on crucifixes after he had discovered Valjean was apparently immune to the things, (who, after all, would have looked for a vampire in a factory producing the religious beads,) and yet, here he was. More desolate now than he had been before finding the string of jet beads missing.



His distress must have shown—Valjean was applying a light pressure to one of his shoulders in order to steady him, still applying the damned bottle to his lips, making a small shushing sound as if Javert were a babe to be comforted.



Javert could feel his strength coming back to him and Valjean was having to apply stronger and stronger force to stop Javert from sitting up, from moving around too much to search himself for the missing gift. 



“Javert, stop. What is it you’re looking for?” At least the man had put the bottle down, Javert thought with slight triumph. He delved through his trouser pockets, but he found them emptied, nothing but lint residing in the cheap fabric. Javert grunted, falling back down to his previous position, finding no use in sitting up anymore.



Well, whatever. When the boys died, he would search through their belongings and take the rosary back. That was if, of course, Valjean did not kill him first. Javert was alive and kicking now, that was for sure, much less the re-animated corpse he had felt like before. And yet Javert did not feel fear at the thought. What was there to fear? He had long since accepted death. What was different about dying to this hand than dying to any other?



Javert had led a pious life. He had obeyed the law, he had prayed, he had not sinned. If he were to die now, as a human in this festering city of creatures, perhaps God would accept him into His garden. And, well, what would the alternative be but yet another challenge to him? Life was hell, the afterlife might as well be too. He had suffered much at the hands of humans and earth-bound monsters alike; what were demons after these?



Javert startled a little at the pressure of a thumb on his neck, where he knew his jugular lay beneath the skin. “How right that you would bleed me dry, right to the end,” Javert scoffed, tilting his head away so as to lay his neck all the more bare.



At his movement, Valjean removed his hand and remained quiet, a curious gesture that made Javert open his eyes to search for Valjean’s expression. When he found it, it read of a kind of regret, a guilt that could only be felt 

after 

one has committed a deed.



It was the look not of a gammin caught with a pilfered apple, or of a spooked grisette taking shelter in an alley, but the look of a man who has killed his wife in a bout of rage, and now kneels, in her blood, in shock. Something leapt in Javert’s stomach, nearly at the same moment his brain attempted to fit the puzzle pieces together. 



Javert tilted his head to where the bottle from which he had been fed lay discarded to one side of them on the dirty floor. It showed the drips of the dark red liquid it contained. Javert’s eyes trailed from bottle to Valjean’s hands, to his wrists, where a small, now-healing cut had been. It was almost curious the calm Javert felt as his own hand reached up to touch the spot on his neck Valjean had pressed against only moments before, to find two ridged puncture marks, a couple of centimetres apart.



He attempted to recollect what had happened in the last hour. He could remember waking to the sound of debating outside, had overheard the leader of the rebels attempting to convince some of the young men to leave, to retire to their families back at home. Then a silence, or a temporary loss of consciousness, and then Valjean had been there. Initially, Javert had assumed the phantom face a cruel hallucination, but then the ghost had cut the rope around his neck and- and perhaps another blackout? The next he knew he had been drinking from the bottle, head on Valjean’s lap.



A cool, dejected hatred descended upon him. Javert sat up, ignoring the queasy sensation in his stomach, stood despite the wobble in his legs and the sound of Valjean’s objections, and went outside via the café’s back entrance, where he promptly threw up.



The dimness of the alley behind the abandoned café was clearing, like he was rubbing sleep from his eyes. He had always had bad eyesight, never having been able to afford spectacles, not when they were so easy to break, but now it seemed like things were focusing more than they ever could. The lines of the walls were becoming so sharp he could make out the whorls of the wood, the grit of the bricks. He turned and turned, and he could see.



Then, the smell of acid, of blood, it threatened to clog his throat, to crawl into his every pore and latch on— he could pick out the smell of rancid garbage from the alley, then another layer; rat feces, and then, deeper than that, everywhere, the smell of Paris’ sewer but somehow stronger, somehow permanent, like it had settled its film of stench over everything. Just as he had learnt to see, his body had now learned to smell, as if everything had been blurred before.



“It’ll be worse for you if you do that,” was Valjean’s quiet interjection. The man hadn’t attempted to physically prevent him from doing this, from ridding his stomach of its foul contents, but had come to stand beside Javert, just aside from the slowly-forming pool of blood, bile and wine. “If you’re trying to prevent… it’s too late. The blood is to-”



“Prevent me from searching for victims on my first night.” Javert wiped his mouth, throat now sorer than before with the application of acid to the rawness.



 “Javert…”



Javert couldn’t handle the pitying tone of the voice, as if Valjean were a concerned neighbour, taking care of a drunkard. “What a cruel punishment you’ve thought of.” He spat, attempting to rid his mind as well as his body. “Eternal damnation, 

Monsieur, 

truly despicable.” He laughed, a short, crazed sound, his grin more akin to a rabid dog’s than the wolf he’d been in life.



“If you do not digest something now, the craving will become uncontrollable. There is no telling what… who you might attack. Please Javert, let me feed you.”



“More of yourself, Valjean? Perhaps I might, perhaps I’ll allow you to drain yourself for me. The man of mercy till the last.”



“If that will please you, Javert. Only, I do not wish you to commit an act you will later come to regret.”



“Done plenty of that, have you not?”



Valjean glanced away, down and to the right. “Come.” The bottle appeared again from behind Valjean’s back, Javert able to see that it was half-full now that they were in the light of the dawn.



Loathsome as the man was, Valjean had a point. If Javert did not drink this wicked drink now, he might not have the strength to pick and choose who to attack later on, when left on his own. He had seen plenty of new ‘recruits’, who had starved themselves out of their minds, only to cause more damage to the world as they went on a mindless ravaging spree. Javert would not become one of them. He would sooner die.



He took the bottle from Valjean and drank, attempting not to think of the taste, of the fact that he was drinking the lifeblood of the criminal. That this creature’s blood would be what fuelled him for the next few hours, days… however long it would need to last. When he had finished, he dropped the bottle to the floor, the glass smashing across the cobbles.



The sound might alert the boys, he knew, but he had so little strength to care about anything right now, and if, as seemed to be the case, Valjean was intent on letting him go, he would need that precious energy to get through the next few hours. He would have to pretend to his colleagues, to his superiors, to the world that he had come out of this war as human as he had gone in.



“No. 7 Rue de l'Homme-Armé, Javert. Find me there, when you are able, under the name Fauchelevant.”



“Rue de l’Homme-Armé,” Javert repeated, trance-like.



“No. 7. Remember.”



Javert stumbled back a couple of steps, staggering, unable to believe.



When Valjean didn’t seem to be setting a trap, when he looked, for all intents like he would allow Javert to leave, with his life, Javert turned, hurrying for a few paces.




With my life. The tattered remnants of it. 

He slowed to a halt, just before the small barricade at the back of the building he had been imprisoned in. Too much longer and this area would be teeming with soldiers, stemming any escape from the barricade. “You should have killed me.”



Valjean had produced a pistol, perhaps taken from one of the dead National Guardsmen, or perhaps given to him by one of the boys. Either way, the bullet drove into the wall beside him as Javert ran through the escape route he had been given. He could hear the bullet scream as it whipped through the air, followed by the gritty thud of metal lodging in brick— the report of the gun nearly deafening. He screwed his eyes shut as the deafening whine kept with him for another hundred metres. It seemed louder, clearer than any gunshot ever had before. He could practically feel the ripples of it underneath his skin. 



Hopefully he would not be shot as a traitor once he has reached the other side. 



He had not called Valjean “thou”. 



He would have preferred being shot.



-



Beside the Seine was the Morgue— a simple building lined with cells, bodies behind the bars like prisoners, strapped to exhibition slabs. Lately Paris city-guides had added it as a must-see destination. The cadavers had become a public spectacle. Mothers would take their children. Soldiers would visit when they had an hour spare. Valjean thought that he may be the only one of the crowd there attempting to identify a body.



In the early hours of the morning, people in need of coin would row across the river to collect the bodies it carried. They would return the corpses to the police for a small reward. The police would give the bodies to the morgue, and, every day, Valjean would visit hoping every morning he would leave the same as he had entered. Javert had disappeared after the barricade and Valjean could not catch any information about his whereabouts beyond a small note left at the police house beside the Pont au Change.



He hoped Javert had had enough of the blood to help him survive so long alone. He did not want Javert to feel obliged to stay with him, but he felt responsible, and like Javert could only cultivate hatred with his distance. 



It was ridiculous. Valjean had spent literal decades wishing to be rid of the man, only to find himself waking before dawn to check for the man’s body.



After a few weeks, it seemed unlikely Javert’s corpse would be found, if he had done as Valjean suspected and attempted to take his own life. Such an act would not kill most of their kind, but Javert had been weak, barely functioning. His body could have given in.



But, then, if Valjean knew Javert, he would not have simply allowed his body to give in. ...The Javert Valjean knew would not have committed suicide. 


 

 


There was a knock at No. 7, Rue de l'Homme Arme.



Valjean heard it from his room, but had stopped expecting visits from Cosette and her husband, a vampire by the name of Marius— the same boy Valjean had taken from the barricade just shy of six months ago. 



Marius knew that Valjean had killed the spy, Javert, at the barricade to protect his identity as a thief and parole-breaker. Marius was thus keen to keep a murderer and a liar from having any further contact with his wife. Valjean understood. It had been exactly what he had feared should the day come when he would give Cosette away. 



He shifted in his chair, the wood legs creaking. As the days passed, the more he was coming to identify with the chair. Valjean had not left the room for nearly three months now. His body was set to give. He did not expect nor hope for guests. He did not expect nor hope to live. All that stayed Valjean’s hand from the deed itself was the thought that to die by one’s own hand would be a final betrayal to the memory of Bishop Myriel. 



Another knock at another door, this time closer. The door to his room. Valjean frowned. The housekeeper was not due to offer him food for another four hours. He went to talk, only to find his throat dry and cracked. He cleared his throat. “I am not hungry, Madame.” 



“May I enter?”



It was not the voice of the elderly woman of the house, but the voice of a ghost. Valjean almost found the thought amusing, that he would be called to heaven by the voice of the Inspector that had haunted him his entire life. 



“Yes,” Valjean said in a whisper, ready. More ready than he could have believed.



The Inspector was strangely corporeal. Valjean had been expecting a spectre, an apparition sent to direct him towards his judgement. Nevertheless, Valjean relaxed, closing his eyes to his death.



Blood. The sudden smell of it, overwhelming. It took Valjean seconds to snap his attention away from the intoxicating pull of it. 



“Drink,” the ghost of the Inspector was saying as he pressed a bottle against Valjean’s lips. “I will not have you die now.”



Valjean’s initial instinct was to drink, to accept the offering and regain some of the life he had wasted away. It was cool, and thick, and— too close to human. He choked, drinking too fast and spluttering his mouthful out. There was a tut, then a rough clap to Valjean’s back, forcing him to cough and clear his airways.



Once Valjean’s throat had stopped stinging, the bottle was again forced to his lips. As he slowly gained coherency, he understood what was happening; being bottle fed blood by the inspector, healed by the liquid, no longer on the brink of death. 



It was Javert, then, and not a spectral force of God. 



“What is it?” Valjean asked, not able to place the taste to any animal he knew. 



“Mostly pig, some lamb. It simulates the taste of human. I was hoping 

closer 

to human might mean that there were similar effects on the body.” The tone of Javert’s voice implied there had not been much luck yet.



“You’ve tried different amounts of each animal?” 



Javert nodded, fiddling with the cork of the bottle. “Cow, poultry, any animal I could buy from the butcher. I have been attacked by enough of our kind to know this is the closest I have come so far.”



Valjean frowned, at once alarmed that Javert spoke of being attacked so casually, and confused as to how he had not smelled the mixture until it was in his immediate vicinity. “I could not smell it before.”



“The trick is the container.” Javert held up his bottle, apparently custom-made. “It must be tightly sealed to prevent the smell from escaping. Plus, I rather gather you were on your last breath.” 



Custom-made bottle, human-like but not human-made blood, referring to being a vampire as a shared experience, an ‘our’, Javert was not the same man Valjean had known. 



Javert was inspecting Valjean’s room, looking completely unsurprised that Valjean would be living in a freezing, unfurnished room populated with nothing but a hard bed, a writing desk and a wooden chair. Above the bed were the twin candlesticks, above them, a simple cross. 



Javert watched the cross for a moment longer. “I thought you had given me a false address.” He did not fidget, no doubt having killed all outward signs of hesitance years ago, but Valjean could sense that the inspector was unsure of what he was admitting. “I’ve been watching your house. It occurred to me that you might have moved, only…” Sheepish, Javert tapped his chest with two fingers in a slow pulse; unrecognisable as a human’s. 



Valjean recognised the beat as his own, though minutes ago, it had been much slower; a beat on the verge of death. Conscious that Javert could very easily read his current mental state, Valjean shifted from his seat on the chair, rubbing sensation back into his limbs. 



“Your daughter married, then.” 



Valjean nodded. 



“Apparently I address the father of a baroness.” 



Valjean did not move. “I have no right to call the baroness my daughter. I have cut that tie from her, if that is what you have come to address.” 



Valjean read confusion in Javert’s expression. “Cut… your ties? Valjean, what have you done?”



“I assume you have come to warn me not to near the baroness again, lest a negative light be cast upon her.” Resigned to his fate, Valjean met Javert’s eye.



Javert was incredulous. “What? ...Why?”



Valjean realised, after a beat, that Javert was waiting for an actual answer to his questions. Not since he was Madeleine had Javert expected a conversation to follow his demands. Valjean was much more used to providing his explanations to a deaf ear. 



When they had exchanged their blank looks, Valjean and Javert discovered their incomprehension was mutual. Valjean was the first to laugh, hoping to break the rising tension. “I think we need to talk.”



“Perhaps,” Javert conceded, his rigid posture relaxing by several degrees.



“I’ll have Toussaint bring up another chair, and tea if you would not mind drinking it. She will not think kindly of me if I have a guest without offering him so much as a drink.”



“No, I-”



“Javert. I know you are not a man of pity, but consider this dying man’s last request.” Valjean said this with a slight smirk, knowing Javert not to be a man of humour. 



He was very much surprised when Javert rolled his eyes, almost… fond. 



-



As Toussaint prepared the drinks, Valjean collected the papers from his desk and left them in a neat pile on his bed, setting the chairs at the desk in a crude attempt at hospitality. “I apologise,” he said as he worked, “I did not ever intend to entertain guests.”



Javert simply watched Valjean work, not wanting to get in the other man’s way. “It is my fault, I might have informed you of my visit.”



The stiff attempts at playing the guest-host relationship, one neither had actively attempted before with anyone, let alone with one another, gradually become less icy as they sat, and tea arrived, and they staged steeping, pouring and sipping.



Having had time to think over Valjean’s comments, Javert set his cup down with a reformed plan of attack. “You told Cosette, or, more likely her husband, the bare minimal of your past to incriminate yourself but enough to pretend that you have come clean, absolving yourself of the lie. Thus you have been prevented from seeing the couple, due to their misconceptions of you.” 



Valjean’s cup stayed halfway to his lips, his eyes on the rippling contents. “...That’s not… Accurate. I told the Baron the truth. What he did with it was his decision to make.”



“I thought you abhorred lying.”



“I did not lie.”



“Omitting the truth, Valjean, is lying, as we both well know. Madeleine was a lie. Fauchelevent is a lie.” Seeing Valjean had not unfrozen from his position, Javert sighed. “Now, I see, they were necessary lies. I… have not agreed with you in the past, but now…” Valjean looked up from his tea, the barest flutter of panic in his expression. “I do not think you were wrong in hiding your identity.”



To Javert’s utmost horror, Valjean had a literal heart palpitation, the shock of Javert’s admission making the man skip an actual beat. The horror of giving the man a stroke spurred Javert into action: Javert took Valjean’s cup from his hand before Valjean could drop it, gently plying it from his fingers and setting it back on the desk. 



When Valjean did not keel over, dead from shock, Javert noticed that Valjean seemed to be crying. 



Not knowing whether to bring up the tears or to push on as if it weren’t happening, Javert decided he might as well push the point while Valjean seemed emotionally responsive.



“So you’ll listen to me, then, when I say I know you perhaps better than any man on this earth, and that while hiding your past has brought prosperity to towns and life to children, this 

lie 

that you are nothing but an old con, is doing more damage than good.”



Valjean shaded his eyes with one hand and covered his mouth with the other, his body shaking as he cried. It was oddly eerie to watch a man break so completely in such silence. 



While he waited for Valjean to regain composure, Javert wondered how long it had been since Valjean had had a conversation without having to worry about trapping himself in a complex web of lies. He wondered whether Valjean had been able to be himself in Faverolles; been able to play with his sister’s children, or whether he had been as much of a shell even then. Javert’s curiosity would not let him let the question go; was Valjean’s altruism intrinsic to his very being, or was it a learnt habit? 



Perhaps, one day, Javert might be able to ask. 



“I did not peg your daughter’s husband as an ingrate.” Javert was thankful that Valjean seemed to have stopped shaking. “To treat his saviour as a common criminal…” 



That night had been the first in many years that Javert had retched, and it had not been a singular occurrence as his senses had heightened, the true grime of Paris flooded him. The blood of the barricade, the piss in the street, nothing prepared him for hauling Valjean and Marius to the baron’s house. Even the memory of the smell threatened to make Javert gag. In some ways, he was thankful he had not returned to his house that night; his soiled greatcoat swallowed by the Seine instead of stinking out his room.




God 

only knew what a vampire of Valjean’s age would have smelt in the depths of Paris in the long hours he had been down there. Valjean had wiped his eyes, but, wordless, he continued to sip at his cup. Javert’s eyes narrowed. “He does 

know

 about your trials that night.” Silence. “Oh for 

God’s sake

, Valjean.” Javert realised that it was very easy to mistake Valjean for a hardened criminal mastermind when Valjean’s social tactic seemed to be to leave so much of his actions out in order to seem 

worse

.



“Ah,” Valjean tried at last, as if he had not been accused of slander.  “You must have come for some purpose, forgive my selfishness. What is it you would like to discuss with me?”



Javert did not think Valjean’s self-deprecation worthy of a reply, simply rolled his eyes. “No purpose. None but concern. Why did you not tell Marius it was you who brought him home?”



“It did not seem relevant. Why were you concerned about me?”



Javert sensed the conversation derailing, Valjean finding Javert’s weaknesses and pushing at them so as to distract him from Valjean’s. 



“Are you honestly telling me that I had no reason to be concerned? That if I had not brought you blood today, you would have been fine?”



“No, but—” Valjean was, to say the very least, at a loss for words. “Javert, when we parted last, you said you wished I had killed you, that what I had done to you was 

worse

 than killing you, and I agree— what I’ve done to you throughout our lives is more than enough excuse for you to hate me as you do— so... why? Why were you concerned about me?”



Javert sat back in his chair, letting out a breath for old time’s sake, sighing for the sake of it. He closed his eyes. 



He didn’t know. Why 

had 

he staked out Valjean’s house? Because he was curious as to whether Valjean had lied. When he had thought he 

had

, when he had not seen Valjean leave or enter the house, he had been disappointed. Disappointed that the truth he had been attempting to confront turned out to be yet another of Jean Valjean’s lies. 



But once he had found that Valjean 

had 

told the truth, he did not have time to confront why he felt 

relief

: he knew, then, about Valjean’s body’s worsening condition, how close he was to death.



“I have come to the realisation that there is a stretch of time ahead of me. I took to plotting revenge against you. My first port of call was to check whether you did, indeed, reside here. Once I had gone through the trials of tracking you down, I took more time to think. This proved perilous. I spent the last of my hatred on myself. And now, here I am.” Javert lifted his teacup in Valjean’s direction. “A truce.”



“A truce?”



“If you will have it. I regret my life, almost the entirity of it. I will not forgive myself, nor do I think you should forgive me of my sins. My truce regards our mutual hatred of one-another. As this conversation proves, I feel we have enough self-hatred without the added pressure.”



“A truce,” Valjean repeated, sounding dangerously close to another stroke. “Then we should… talk,” Valjean said. “About everything. Toulon. M— sur M—.” 



Javert would not meet Valjean’s eye. He wasn’t ready. “What does it matter now?”



“It matters, because I cannot understand you, Javert, and neither can you understand 

me

 if we do not share our narratives. So much of what you have been taught: by yourself, by others, if we are to… continue together without animosity, I’d like to know what will affect your treatment of me.”



Javert had nothing to fall back on. He had no pre-made arguments. No past experience. He was, for the very first time, alone in his decision. He was honestly unsure what he wanted from being in such proximity with Valjean. He felt his past like a pit in his stomach, threatening to overrule him, volatile, powerful. He didn’t understand Valjean, he still didn’t, even now he was supposedly on his side. 



Javert, searching for anything to latch onto, recalled the lectures he had been given as a member of the police, that even if his skin was not white, he must not sympathise with the men darker than he. “I was taught that your freedom might ‘infect the slaves with a sense of independence and mobility’, Valjean.” Javert could feel his stomach flip to say the words, the self-hatred he continually endured to overcome his own prejudice. It did not feel ‘just’ to obey the law, now. “I was taught many things that I could, but never have, exercised upon you. Should I tell you each of those, too?”



Valjean’s hands clenched. Javert watched them do so. He felt it would be right for Valjean to beat him, now, to finally realise what a callous, hate-filled man Javert was. He watched as Valjean’s pale palms became paler, the strength of his angered fingers rejecting his blood. The pinky of Valjean’s fist connected with the table, but the strength of it seemed curtailed, the anger escaping from the now-unclenching fist into the wood.



Javert unscrewed his jaw, slowly, forcefully, still watching Valjean’s hands, still unsure whether Valjean might be provoked into attack. Valjean was more used to his superhuman strength, after all, and Javert had begun to suspect that, even within the undead, Valjean was not to be considered of ‘average’ strength. 



Valjean had never attacked him, Javert realised. In all the years, in all the hatred, Valjean had not once attacked Javert. He had made threats in Toulon, they had played cat and mouse, but… Valjean had not touched Javert with the intent to harm.



“I don’t know,” Javert said, after a long silence. “I don’t know if I can.” Javert had beaten Valjean multiple times. 



“Well, we have eternity for company.” Valjean poured more tea from the teapot into their empty teacups. Then swilled his cup, watching the leaves dance as he did so. “Why not start the conversation now?”



Javert had not meant to kill him.



He had been a young man then, only twenty three, attempting to please his superiors, attempting to fit his actions to the Justice he knew he had to become. The man below him was thirty four, he was told, only eleven years his senior and yet had toiled in this prison for seven years before Javert’s arrival. The man was just another Jean, another number. He had been a manual labourer before his criminal activities, that much was obvious from his broad shoulders. 



But this manual labourer must have been poor. Must have had a large family. He was weak, feeble, little more than skin stretched atop bones. He had probably been strong, but seven years of mould-crusted food and purposeful prevention of sleep had changed this. This Jean Valjean was bound to die.



Valjean had been in trouble with many of his fellow prisoners. They did not like having to sleep with a man darker than them. They attacked him, pushed him about, and Javert had allowed it. This was what he had been taught was natural behaviour in scum like those below him. They could not be changed, no matter what he tried.



And then Valjean had tried to escape. Javert’s superiors recommended the lash for his disobedience, to prove his virtue as a guard. There was no room for pity, not at Toulon, not for men like these. Javert never felt pride or joy from the act as some guards did. But at twenty three he had felt sick, could still feel the lashes against his own back from a not-so distant past. Instead of the lash, he had opted to strip Valjean from his rights to food.



It was slow. Much slower than the lash. Ten times a minute, Javert would change his mind as he watched Valjean’s abused body slowly turn into a corpse before his eyes. Ten times, he would choose his reputation over Valjean’s suffering.



Javert knew that Valjean’s silence, as he lay convulsing on the floor, was no subservience. Javert had meant to make an example out of Valjean, yes. But he had not meant to kill him. He had changed shifts, avoided the prisoners of that particular area of the bagne. 



A year later, Javert had been pleased to discover that Valjean had not died. That he had survived the starvation. Javert had wondered, in his youth, at how the man could have recovered his colour and his strength quite so quickly, at how he had gone from a sickly, dying frame of a man to the almost mountainous one only twelve years later when he left Toulon. 



Javert had worked it out soon enough, of course. Valjean must have been one of the creatures all along, pretending to starve to garner Javert’s pity. Waiting for the chance to attack. 



-



Valjean had never known so much pain, and yet, to die seemed like a blessed relief. This new guard, this youth barely out of childhood, to die at his hand seemed like a cruel twist of fate that Valjean was only too ready to accept. Valjean had died by the hand of a child, because he had wanted to feed a child. He was too exhausted to feel anger, to feel horror, to pray. He had given up on God long ago.



And then he could breathe again. His stomach did not groan or heave at the mere thought of food. His muscles knitted together again, his bones regained their strength. For months, Valjean was in and out of consciousness, a bleary haze of faces he had now long forgotten.



Valjean was convinced it had been Javert who had made him what he was. Into this creature. He had seen the pleased look being given him, had watched as the young Javert had applauded his sudden, almost miraculous strength. Had exploited that strength in order to prove that 

his

 prisoners worked the hardest.



So Valjean retaliated. He had attempted to escape again and again. He had added years onto his sentence: what use had he with years? He was, as far as he could tell, immortal. Years would mean nothing. And Valjean had assumed Javert was the same. That they would be playing this cat and mouse for centuries.



Until, almost ten years later, Valjean had realised that the young, smooth-faced guard was now a figment of his imagination, that the Javert who looked down upon him was now the age Valjean had been, would look forever. The ten years had not been unkind to Javert, but they had certainly taken their toll on his frown, on his permanent scowl, his distrust. It was then that Valjean had realised Javert was human, and a human ignorant of the otherworldly entities surrounding him.



Valjean did not know why he felt especially protective, from then on, only that he knew that if anyone was to be the death of Javert, it would be him. He could not abide the thought of the jailor falling by anyone’s hand but his own. Valjean would imagine himself killing Javert as the guard watched them toil, as he watched the prisoners eat, work, sleep.



Valjean hated Javert. For killing him. For leaving him vulnerable to whoever had done this to him. Immortalised him in a life he wouldn’t wish on anyone. Valjean would have to escape somehow. Eventually Javert would be old enough, would have watched Valjean long enough to realise that he had not aged a day since his thirty-fourth year. Thus came his blessed relief. Patrole.



-



M— sur M— was a town like most; filled with sin and hatred. But unlike most, it had recently gained a benefactor, a lawful factory owner. Javert did not like this man. 



The mornings were dark at this time of year. The nights were darker. Every night, Javert would walk a path from the church towards the dock. From the church he would receive holy water to coat his weapons, leaving just enough to use to test his captured party. M— sur M— was a nest of vampires and Javert was determined to kill every one of the scum that resided amongst the innocent civilians of the town. He had had a tip that a blood bank operated near the docks, where women prostituted their bodies for human and vampire vice alike. 



Every night he would pick off a man from the group, catch him by the neck with a noose and drag the superhumanly powerful creatures into the darkness while he had them surprised, most struggling against the bonds like fish writhing in a net. A splash of holy water would test what sin the man had been looking for. If the liquid dribbled off them, he would be questioned about his associates before being freed at dawn with a warning not to return. A fizzle of black smoke, usually accompanied by an inhuman scream allowed Javert the rare pleasure of burying a stake deep within the heart of the vampire he had caught.



Tonight was colder than most, which Javert almost relished. The cold meant there was a greater chance his catch would not be human. Not many humans ventured out in weather like this but him. His path was not lit. It never was. To use light would be a beacon as to his location. To sneak up on a creature with animal-like smelling, Javert would test the wind, like one would if on the hunt for game.



He had further masked anything that might give his sent away as his own; he did not wear his usual greatcoat on hunts like this, instead using one he had taken from a dead drunk. It smelt of tobacco, sweat and alcohol, as most of the inhabitants of the docks did.



Once he had reached his favourite haunt, he stopped in the shadows of a dilapidated building, leaning against the brick as if he were resting to chew his tobacco. Long shadows would flicker past, but most would smell of heady perfume and sex. Prostitutes were not his game on hunts like this.



A crunch of a footstep against the frosted grass. Javert glanced at the man passing. Well-kept, attractive, clean. Something about this man’s pace was different from the usual 

slink 

of the creatures who passed through. It seemed familiar. Javert dislodged himself from the building and trailed the man further than he usually dared. The steady pace was easy enough to keep up with without being caught. 



Javert was curious; it ruined his habits. They passed the usual divide where he would collar his victim, around corners, further into the labyrinthine streets of the docks. Javert could feel his heart pick up— dangerous in a place like this. He took deeper breaths and calmed himself. This was no time for nerves.



The thought crossed him that this could be his death. A trap set to catch the hunter hunting the creatures. The target was almost too perfect, and Javert realised he would not be able to navigate himself back to the town from wherever he was.



A door burst open to Javert’s left. He ducked away from it, hoping the noise had not attracted his prey’s attention towards himself. The open building was releasing shouts, music and, crucially, candlelight. A shock of thrill ran through Javert as the light illuminated the figure. It was the mayor who continued the path he had been taking, seemingly oblivious to the door that had just released its patrons. 



Javert sobered himself quickly. He would have to continue the chase to gather more evidence. The mayor, the judge might rule, was known for giving alms and many beggars chose the docklands. Javert had no evidence that the mayor was here to sin. Another thought crossed him, but he dulled it quickly. The mayor was known for the small brass cross hung around his neck. If he were a vampire, the constant touch of cross to skin would be no small agony.



Javert took stock of his surroundings. Tonight was not the night to continue the chase. It was getting towards the hour patrons would stumble home, and there was far to walk before he was free from the stench of the docklands— too far to travel alone with his reputation as a hunter.



Javert made a note of the clothes the mayor was wearing. Not like anything Javert had seen the man wear in public, which seemed to suggest a disguise. Javert allowed himself a smile. Why would the mayor need a disguise unless he were up to something irreputable?



Javert would have to plan how to catch this man without getting caught himself.



He walked into the street to take stock of where he was, pulling his cap further down his face to hide his eyes, the collar of his coat hiding the bottom half of his face. He had lost sight of the mayor, but that was fine, he would let the man go for now.



He backtracked through streets he could remember, guessed ones he couldn’t. The light had not been conducive to following the mayor, and Javert had spent too much time concentrating on not losing his target instead of memorising the route. 



Several minutes into his journey, he heard the telltale footsteps of a gang; purposeful and heavy footed but with hushed voices, swaying in an out of hearing. Javert attempted to casually speed his pace. He was alone, lost, and underprepared; three significant handicaps in a fight. 



As was to be expected from the circumstance, Javert found himself in a street he was fairly sure he’d never seen before that turned a corner only to become a dead end. There was a laugh as his only exit was blocked. Javert gripped the handle of his baton under his coat. If his assailants were human, he might survive this. If they were not, he would at least try to take some down with him. 



“Out for a walk, Monsieur?” The leader called, bulking himself up. Javert kept his hat lowered. They had not called him inspector. If they did not know who he was, they might let him live. “Not seen you round these parts.”



“Just docked, boy.” Javert deepened his voice. Perhaps they might be more lenient towards a wearied sailor. 



“Looking for a bit of entertainment are we?” one of the group cajoled.



“‘s right.”



“We’ve just run out of money… you wouldn’t mind sharing some of yours, help a couple boys along?”



He considered a non-confrontational approach. To give the boys what they wanted. Javert avoided gripping the wallet in his pocket. He could not afford to lose the money he kept on him. He had little enough to sustain himself, let alone give away to these drunks. “Spent it,” Javert said, putting a drunken lilt to his voice. He hoped he looked like a man kicked out from a beerhouse and who had lost his way. 



“Oh, that’s a shame,” the lead boy said. “You won’t mind emptying your pockets for us anyway?” 



Javert took a step towards them, careful to keep up his rouse. He needed to pass them, one way or another. First, he would attempt camaraderie. They did not part as he closed the distance between them. He would have to brush against them before they would move, he thought.



“We asked nicely, old man.”



The first hit knocked the air out of his lungs; a punch to the gut bending him in half. A second, to the back of the head, forced him to the ground. He felt his chin smash against the cobble floor. The boys hauled him over, hands going through his pockets. One pulled out his baton. Another his stake.



The leader let out a smooth whistle before flicking off Javert’s cap. “

Inspector

,” he said, “This is not a nice neighbourhood to find yourself lost in.”



Javert tried to pull himself up, but the leader tutted, holding the stake to Javert’s neck. “Sharp, this. Could do some real damage.” Another boy held out Javert’s pillaged wallet. It was dropped on Javert’s stomach. Javert growled, forming his words, memorising the boys’ faces. 



“You’re lucky we’re no friends of 

them

.” The youngest boys looked around, as if even mentioning the creatures could draw them out of the darkness.



“You shall not escape from this unpunished,” Javert spat. 



The leader could not be older than twenty. The rest, children. The leader smiled. Pushed the prick of the stake into Javert’s skin until it broke, before dropping it, letting the warm blood trickle down Javert’s neck. 



“Must’ve slipped.” The boys sniggered. “Good luck, Inspector. I hope you don’t find yourself in the company of those less friendly than us.” Javert watched them scamper off, keeping in a tight group. Preventative methods to keep from being picked off while nobody was looking. 



Javert groaned as he sat up, feeling the muscles in his stomach pull. He raised a hand to his neck. It did not come away covered in blood, but it was no papercut. He pressed his hat against the cut, mopping up at least some of the blood. He managed to stand, leaning against the alley wall as he decided where to go from there. 



The boys were right. He didn’t know how close one of the vermin would have to be to smell blood, but he imagined he would attract quite some attention if he were to walk through the main streets with his neck pre-cut for them.



He glanced at the woolen, slightly damp cap and threw it towards the back of the alley. Hopefully that might distract anything that followed his scent. He pulled his collar up as far as it could go. He felt nearly naked without his face covered. Who knew who might recognise him and finish the job the boys had started.



Javert had made it all of five steps before his name was hissed at him. “Inspector?” The mayor swept towards him, tugging off his own hat to cover Javert’s head. “You shouldn’t be here.” The mayor’s eyes flicked from shadow to shadow in terror. 



“Monsieur Mayor,” Javert laughed, “It is you who should not be here.” Javert tilted his head up to squint at the mayor, wondering, vaguely, where the man had been since Javert had lost sight of him. 



“There is no time, Javert. You must go, before anyone catches you here.”



“Not until you explain your own reason for being here.” The mayor grimaced. Javert had him caught. 



The mayor reached into his pockets. Javert wound himself for a fight, tensing his muscles, watching for the glint of a knife. The mayor drew his hands out and showed their contents. Javert’s shoulders slackened. One hand held a fistful of rosaries from the mayor’s factory, the other small vials of water. Holy water, Javert would assume by their size. 



“To help the women protect themselves from attack. There’s been a spate of murders recently that I would like to prevent from increasing.”



Javert’s jaw clenched. The disguise to stop rumours as to his being seen in the alleys from spreading. The secrecy because he did not want to fuel his reputation for unconstrained charity, or to be convinced otherwise by people like Javert.



“You’re injured. We should hurry.” Javert’s hand came to his neck, self-conscious to be seen weak. “You will attract unsavoury people if you stay here.” The mayor’s hand grabbed Javert’s upper arm, pushing him towards an alley to the left, the hand only moving once they had cleared the darker of the streets.



The mayor could not possibly have seen the small nick below Javert’s collar. Perhaps he had witnessed the attack; had not wanted to jump in and ruin his own disguise. Or perhaps he had relished the chance to watch the only man openly against him in the town kicked to the floor. Perhaps he was a vampire and could smell the blood, and was leading him towards a quiet spot to enact Javert’s demise.



Javert allowed himself to be pulled along by the mayor, their pace quick. Eventually he recognised roads he had passed before; could place himself again. They passed the spot he had initially started to trail the mayor, then through the main part of town, before arriving at the factory. 



The mayor directed Javert into the building first and Javert walked through to the mayor’s office. Perhaps he would be asked to debrief why he himself was there, and in the sorry clothing that he was wearing. The mayor walked behind his desk, hung up his cloak and looked at Javert. He pulled Javert’s stake from his coat pocket and placed it on his desk. “This is not police equipment, Inspector.”



“No.”



“Did you stab yourself?”



“No.”



“Who did?”



“A group of boys I did not recognise. Rest assured I will find them and put them to justice.”



“Perhaps it was an accident.”



“They took my wallet. I can assure you it was not.”



A look passed across the mayor’s face. It was remarkably close to pity, but with a fraction less compassion than the mayor usually sprung on victims. Understanding, perhaps. 



“How much did they take?”



Javert’s lips thinned. He was to be treated like a beggar. “That does not concern you.”



“Inspector. Until you can find the boys who took your money, you must eat.”



“So must you.”



“I have more than enough to eat,” the mayor said with a grim smile. “But I will not force you to take any.” The mayor bit his thumb, a curious action. “Let me see your injury. It must be treated before you return home.”



“It is not serious.” Javert was given a look, one he took to mean that ‘no’ was not an answer. Javert sighed and turned down his collar. 



He felt the mayor’s thumb stroke against the wound, first with his thumb and then with his handkerchief. “Monsieur,” Javert said, stepping back. “You will ruin it.”



“It was old,” the mayor said, tucking the material back into his pocket. “I was to throw it away this week anyway.” 



Javert did not believe him. He lifted his own hand to his neck to find the wound closed, the skin clean. The cut must have been small. He must’ve looked a real fool, having his nick cleaned by the mayor. He cringed, sought a way out. “I must leave. I must write my report before my shift.”



“Of course.” The mayor handed Javert his stake with a bit-down look.



“Good evening, Monsieur.” Javert bowed.



“Good evening, Javert.” As Javert turned to leave, the mayor hmm-ed. “Inspector?”



Javert watched as the mayor picked up a string of beads, a rosary. The rosary was one of the mayor’s own, had been sat on his desk, a personal possession rather than one of those from his pocket, to be given to the prostitutes.



Javert could not help but keep his eyes fixed on the small cross fixed to the beads. He watched as the wood shifted, toppled, rested against the vein on the heel of the mayor’s palm— Javert’s eyes snapped to the mayor’s face, to catch any sign of a flinch, of any pain, anything a vampire would feel had he been subjected to the crucifix.



Nothing.



Nothing but the mayor’s calm smile. The mayor held the rosary out towards Javert. “For you; a small token of appreciation. For your service.” 



Javert swallowed. The mayor was not a vampire. He had handled Javert’s stake. Could handle the cross. He did not visit brothels. He was a lawful man. The hard wall of Javert’s soul, formed from years of suspicion of the mayor were being lapped at by the softness of the smile. 



“No need, Monsieur, it is my job. I get paid.” Javert held his hands at his sides in clenched fists.



“Not nearly enough for the hard work you do. For the… overtime you work without pay.”



Javert focused on the floor. It felt nice that his hard work was being recognised by a man he was now coming to understand as a man who worked as hard as he. Javert felt… proud to be of service for this man for the first time. He nodded, and lifted one hand. The rosary was placed in it. Javert bowed again and left. 



-



When Javert woke up the next morning, he found a silver coin in a crack in his floorboard. It certainly was not his, it was worth nearly a month’s wage, four times what he had lost the night before. He would not have forgotten about it if he had ever owned it. It would not have rolled through the door, nor fell from the room above. Someone had been inside his room, and had wedged it there to make it look like an accident. 



-



Javert started to accompany the mayor on his nightly visits to the docks. The mayor forbade Javert from going alone lest he be mugged again. Javert used the same reason to prevent the mayor from going himself. They held themselves at a stalemate that neither, both could tell, wanted to be at. They could really only go in one direction; together. 



At first their walks were silent and tense. Javert did not wish to cause trouble for the mayor, but he also disagreed with how the mayor would let acts of crime pass without judgement. The mayor did not like Javert’s violence, did not like his use of the stake.



Soon, they adjusted themselves to an equilibrium. Far from perfect, but able to keep up a steady conversation on most days without coming to an angry standstill.



“Until tomorrow,” Javert said as his ritual parting words.



“No, I…” Javert tilted his head, the mayor’s response unexpected. “I am not available tomorrow.” 



The mayor looked tired after their hunt that day. He had spoken less than usual on their walk to the dock, even less on the walk back to the station. He had also attempted to be more lenient than normal too, something Javert resisted until the mayor had almost seemed to snap, using his authority over Javert to overrule his verdict to let the prostitute they had caught with fresh puncture wounds go without naming who had done it to her. 



Javert had argued that she was withholding crucial evidence. The mayor had said she would be a target of attack if it was known she had given the information to the inspector. 



Javert bowed. “If I may speak?”



“Of course, Inspector.”



“You should try to get some sleep. You look tired.”



Valjean snorted. “I’m glad I look that way to you.” Javert felt himself colour, glad for the orange cast of the candlelight to prevent the mayor for seeing how foolish he felt. “Thank you, Javert.”



Javert’s brows pinched. “For insulting you?”



“For caring. You should get some rest yourself; I know how early you start your shifts. Good night, Javert.”



Javert bowed again, not knowing how to respond. 



On the walk home, Javert wondered what the mayor was doing. They had not spent one night apart this last month. They had hunted every day. Certainly, Javert’s number of kills had decreased, but so had the number of civilian victims.



Javert was curious. Curiosity turned to suspicion. Suspicion turned to self-loathing. What right had he for suspecting the mayor? Who had been a perfect civilian? Javert clutched the rosary in his pocket. Sometimes, he disagreed with the mayor but, he thought, he trusted him. He certainly trusted him with his life these days, and there wasn’t much else Javert could give someone but that.



-



Javert felt strangely alone as he walked towards the docks the next night. He had made the journey alone for months before his journeys with the mayor and had not encountered any problem but the one mugging. He would be fine. 



It was getting colder as they approached winter. Soon would come snow, making it harder to track his prey without sound. He wondered how he and the mayor would overcome such a problem; though they looked less suspicious walking towards the dock together than one man walking through shadows. Soon they might be recognisable as regulars and given the benefit of the doubt by locals to the area. 



Javert resisted the urge to blow on his hands, stuffing them deeper into his pockets instead in the vain hope that doing so might find some heat deep within. His right hand, wrapped around his disused stake, felt like it had frozen into its grip around it.



He passed only one man on his way to the dock, an elderly man with a drunken stagger that looked like the parody of the character Javert had attempted to play only a month before.



Once he arrived at his old haunt, he leaned against the frozen brick and removed a bottle from one pocket. Uncorking it with numb hands was much harder than he could have imagined, the tiny glass bottle threatening to be crushed in his grip. He couldn’t get a hold of the cork so he removed his knife from another pocket, freshly whetted, stabbed the cork and twisted, perhaps more violently than was necessary. He hated that his body did not move as he wanted it to. It was weakness. He was only glad the mayor was not here to witness the sorry sight.



Thinking of the mayor brought back his complicated revelation from the night before; that he had hated the man for years, and that he didn’t understand why, or when, he had become so devoted him. 



Javert thought it was only appropriate. His earlier behaviour towards the mayor was inexplicable, and it was frankly absurd the mayor had not punished Javert for his disdain. But the mayor was above punishments simply to make an example out of someone. Another complicated string of thoughts from Javert’s youth. A prisoner who had not obeyed Javert. He had been one of the creatures, strong, manipulative. Javert poured the holy water over his weapons. Valjean had nearly convinced Javert that vampires could be pitied.



Javert’s thoughts towards the mayor were not inappropriate in nature, he was relieved to note. He simply respected the authority the mayor had. No further desires. He spotted a target and moved to follow. 



Javert could not work out what was wrong with the man he was following. By the way he walked, the man looked like just another man come to spend his money on alcohol and women; a sort of swagger that these men tended to adopt so as to seem important to at least someone in the world around them. But there was something additionally unpleasant in watching the way the man’s coat swung, and an unsettling feeling of familiarity swept through Javert. He did not recognise the man, he thought; though he could not see much of him, the way a man stepped was individual and Javert would recognise the footsteps of anyone he knew.



So perhaps the man was feigning the swagger to hide his appearance… Javert took a risk and closed some of the distance between them, to be just close enough to see the patches on the man’s coat, from years of being mended. A maroon patch on the left elbow. A dark navy replacement pocket. That coat was the mayor’s.



Anger swelled in Javert’s gut. He reached out and grabbed the mayor’s arm. Javert knew the mayor was strong, so he made his grip stronger. “What are you doing here?”



He did not expect the mayor to release a wail and try to rip his arm away. “I’m sorry, I’m sorry please don’t put me in prison I haven’t done anything yet, please—” 



Javert turned the man around.



This was definitely not the mayor. This man was in his middle-ages and about the mayor’s height, but scraggly and in need of cleaning. Javert recognised his face as one that usually sat outside the mayor’s factory, begging for scraps of food or coin.



“Where did you get this coat?” Javert demanded, the thought of the mayor’s mugged corpse lying drained of blood in a back alley hitting him like a wave of nausea.



“He gave it me, I swear, the mayor, he said it was cold and he gave it me!” 



Javert kept hold. It sounded plausible, but anyone could use the plausibility as an excuse to exploit the situation. To make sure, he should take the man to the police house, to jail him, extract answers. 



...But what would the mayor say if he found Javert holding the man he had so recently donated the coat to? Would he not think Javert paranoid? Unfit to serve in the mayor’s town? The mayor had put his trust in this beggar but Javert could not trust the mayor’s judgement? Javert would be mortified to be told by the mayor that he had overstepped his boundaries. 



His moment of indecision was evidently visual as he was punched square in the nose. The pure unexpected nature of it (very few of the men he previously caught were given the chance to fight back, before the mayor’s interference,) meant he was unprepared to follow the attack with one of his own— instead his grip slipped and the man went running.



Javert was stunned. He had allowed his thoughts of the mayor to override the usual imperative to attack, or to give chase. He blinked, then brought his hand up to his nose when he felt a thick track of warm blood drip from his nose. It didn’t feel broken, but there was more blood coming from his nose than had come from his neck. He removed his pocket handkerchief and held it to his nose, his gaze empty as he stared into the darkness.



Perhaps most disturbing was the emptiness he felt in having let the man go. Why had he been so angry when he thought the mayor had been out here, alone? He analysed the feeling. Jealousy? He had never been 

jealous

 in his life. 



Betrayed? Betrayed that the mayor had lied to him, told him he would be busy. The mayor could go wherever he wanted without Javert’s permission, Javert thought, bitterly. But did they not have an agreement? The mayor did not want Javert to go alone because it was dangerous. Javert wanted the same from the mayor. 



Whatever the reason, it came to nothing now. The man was a beggar in the mayor’s coat, the mayor was not here but at home, resting, or catching up with paperwork. Javert had felt betrayed for no reason. 




Unless it was a distraction

, a part of Javert told him. Javert felt sick. Why could he not convince himself to trust the man? He wanted to, desperately, but some part of him always brought out suspicions, suspicions he longed to drown. 



If the mayor knew Javert would be waiting for him at the corner he frequented. If he had left some coin in his coat pocket to urge the beggar towards the dock. If he was hiding something and wanted to distract Javert from finding him… there were a lot of ifs. 

You’re paranoid

, he told himself. He and the mayor had never walked the same route as the mayor had taken the first day, when Javert had tailed him. 

Coincidence.

 But if that was the mayor’s usual route, why not take it with Javert? 

Coincidence

, he repeated. He shut his eyes, feeling his mind spin. 



He felt the blood slow. Wiped the back of his hand across his nose and sniffed. He wasn’t being paranoid, he was being careful. If the mayor 

had 

chosen to go out tonight, and he had gone to whatever destination he was heading to a month ago, it would be better if Javert was there to lend a hand.



He’d been paying attention when the mayor had dragged him home, lest he had to run from further danger, and so was able to find his way to the alley he had been mugged in. From there were two streets, towards home and towards where he’d lost the mayor the first time. He passed the inn that had spooked Javert and followed the street around a bend. Now he had a choice; to explore the handful of smaller alleys that branched off from the street, or find one he could perch in and wait. 



The first would be warmer, the second safer. He backtracked and found a space in an alley that could see out into the street without being seen. A perfect ambush. He tried not to follow the thought that the mayor might have already passed this spot, as it implied that Javert was certain the mayor 

was 

here under suspicious circumstances and this was not a simple search and rescue operation. 



Javert sat on a crate and waited. The skin on his hand itched. He scratched at it, then realised it was the dried blood from his nose, now caked under his fingernails. He rubbed at his nose, hoping to clean any remaining flecks. He regretted it once he felt the blood shift again, a thin trickle making its path back down his lips. 



The taste of iron and salt. He spat, pulled out his handkerchief and held it against his nose until it stopped. This was almost becoming a habit, bleeding in dark alleys. And if this was becoming a habit…



As if on cue, a laugh from the end of the alley, closing the entrance. Javert pinched the bridge of his nose, stuffed his handkerchief in his pocket and stood. Hopefully, it was just the boys, finding their prey again.



He glanced at the men and stilled.



“Inspector.” Adult men, mid-twenties and well-built. Hopefully jilted sailors. Thieves. Five or six of them. Javert gripped the stake in his pocket. “You’re bleeding.” 



Javert groaned.



One of the creatures was next to him in less than a flash, by his side, leaning close— Javert stabbed blindly, ripping the fabric of his pocket, not bothering to lift it out before attacking, knowing he didn’t have the time. There was a hiss but no contact between weapon and flesh on either end. 



Javert braced himself for another attack, both arms raised in front of him in defence. The tip of the stake was darker than the rest, the holy water soaked through the wood. One hit to the chest would kill the things, prevent them from healing themselves. He only needed to stab six times and then he would be safe. 



He lurched forward, trying to take one of the smaller ones by surprise, but even this target was too fast, and Javert tripped, tumbled over his own feet as he fell to the floor. They didn’t even use the chance to attack. They stood and watched as he picked himself up. He tried again, swiping as he did, hoping the target would misjudge the distance, would be slower, anything. Javert was met with air. He only just saved himself from tripping again. Another attack. The creature baited him before swishing to the side just before Javert could make contact.



He was already panting, for Christ’s sake. He hadn’t landed a hit and he was already panting. The attackers were in fits, laughing as they surrounded him in a circle. Weak. Weak, weak 

weak, weak, weak

— 



A muffled thud. An opening in the ring of creatures. As one, they all turned to see the missing member, unconscious against the wall. A second, then a third. Javert felt himself slip down the food chain, from prey to dirt. Whoever was picking these creatures off wouldn’t care he was human. The amount of strength it took to throw these men— it would not harm the creatures, but it would smash his skull— A flash of Valjean beating back prisoners who tried to attack him— A fourth hit the wall before the leader could think to protect himself— He and the remaining creature attempted to dodge— Javert could feel a harsh breath behind him, then watched as the leader was thrown over his shoulder— 



Javert stabbed behind him, as hard as he could, hoping to cripple the assailant at the very least by jamming it into the man’s thigh. There was a short gasp of pain, a thud as the man fell to his knees, a beat and then a familiar voice. 



“Javert, 

run

.”



Javert turned, horrified. The mayor. He had stabbed the mayor. The mayor had protected him and Javert had stabbed him— Javert wrenched the stake from the wound without thinking— 



The mayor had a hand to his side, blood on his fingers… then one wet hand came up to meet Javert’s neck, leaving bloodied finger marks along his neck. Javert, dumbstruck, touched his own hand to his neck. Was this some sort of marking of his guilt? Was it a sick sort of revenge? To draw attention to him? The mayor’s hands returned to his wound, and Javert’s eyes followed.



...Thick, acrid smoke sizzled from the wound like charred meat.



Javert’s heart stopped. He couldn’t think. He couldn’t move. They both watched as the wound sizzled, leaking thick drops of blood on the cobbled ground. Javert, dumbstruck, looked at the stake. Holy water. Smoke. He looked at the mayor. 



“

Run

.” 



He should kill the creature while it was injured, drive the stake through the imposter’s heart and leave the corpse to rot in the raw sewage of the alley, surrounded by creatures like itself. A groan— the first thrown creature was waking. A second burst of adrenaline kicked Javert into action.



He ran. He stumbled a few steps before picking up speed. The wind felt like glass against his face, the cold of the air slicing across his skin. His jaw ached, he felt the moisture in his nostrils freeze.



He had left the mayor surrounded by the creatures, alone— he was one of them— he should have killed him— what if 

they 

killed him— the mayor had protected him— Javert had stabbed him— 



He slammed the door to his room behind him, pressing his weight against it as he tried to control his breathing, feeling his insides stab as his lungs heaved for air. He slid down the door, head between his knees. He couldn’t think— 

shit, 

he couldn’t breathe. 



This was not right, it wasn’t real, he couldn’t breathe— he’d seen worse, he’d fought worse, he’d been injured worse— he couldn’t breathe— 



-



Javert eventually moved to his bed, where he sat, looking at his hands. His eyes felt sore. His pride was sore. He was tired. 



-



A knock on the door. Somehow that amused Javert. He laughed. There was really only one man it could be. Maybe if he was quiet, the mayor wouldn’t know he was in. A beat. Of course, the mayor was a vampire, so he could probably smell him. Hear his heartbeat. Javert buried a hand in his hair, smoothing the long hairs back into some semblance of neatness.



“What,” he said, not raising his voice, not going to pretend like the mayor couldn’t hear him.



“I—” the mayor was silent for a second. Even with his human hearing Javert heard the floorboards creak as the mayor shifted on his feet. “Were you hurt?”



Javert’s dignity, however much had not been shattered, refused to reply. 



“I’m…” Javert thought he heard a wince in the voice, “Sorry, Inspector.”



Javert, listening now, could hear heavy breathing, like his own had been a half hour ago. Like a panic. Javert stood, the part of him that still wanted to trust the mayor flaring for control. 

It’s a trick.

 He paused before opening the door— then remembered the bodies of the fallen creatures the mayor had saved him from. 



As the door opened, so fell the mayor, who must have been leaning against it, unable to support his weight. He fell heavily, and against Javert’s mind’s insistence to let him fall, Javert caught him enough to slow the fall, the mayor landing on his knees instead.



In the light of the room, the mayor looked almost corpse-like. Pale, bleeding, dirt in his face. No mercy had been taken on the mayor, that much was obvious. But there was something more. Something nearly feral. 



“You were bleeding so much I thought it was a trick,” the mayor said, laughing, self-conscious, barely forcing the words out. “And dripping a trail from place to place...”



“It was a nosebleed,” Javert said, unable to pin his emotions.



“Oh,” was all the mayor said, swaying slightly now that Javert had let go.



“You thought it was a trap and you still came?”



“You were in trouble.”



“With your kind.”



The mayor was silent. He’d closed his eyes, like he was concentrating really hard. “I shouldn’t have come here.”



Javert couldn’t decide whether the mayor meant M— sur M— or to Javert’s house. The answer to both was the same. “No, you shouldn’t have.”



The mayor’s eyes were still screwed shut, his breathing hard. His fingers were tapping a rhythm. Javert followed the fingers with his eyes. Tap. Tap. Tap. Beat. Beat. Beat. Badum. Badum. As the thought came, his heart sped, the fingers quickened. He stepped back, hand going to cover his neck like an instinct drilled into him. 



“I thought I could survive without eating,” he heard the mayor say, softly, the fingers still tapping. “A day. A week. A month. A year…” The mayor’s tapping fingers gripped into a fist, his face in cramped pain. “I thought I could stop. I thought… for so long, but if I don’t eat, Javert, I fear I’ll do something… something 

bad

.”



“Is that why you were there today?” Javert felt the emptiness of his words. “To eat?”



“I have never taken the blood of anyone without their consent. But— But if I don’t I might kill— one, one hundred— isn’t it… better to eat than kill?”



Javert watched the mayor, his face blank to the dull confusion on the mayor’s. “What consent can a prostitute give?” The words did not sound like Javert’s. They sounded like the mayor’s. When had he come to think of the prostitutes like the mayor did? He did not, Javert thought. He had just become more lenient towards them. It was the mayor who was being hypocritical. Some moral man. He looked tired. Out of his mind. This was not the mayor Javert knew.



The mayor was a vampire. But he had not been feeding. How long had he gone without feeding? How long was it until the haggard man before him became one of 

them

, one of the killers? Javert could return the mayor to how he’d been before. Could fix the broken mayor before him. Javert’s hand reached behind him, sweeping across his desk. The knife he used to whittle his stakes into sharp points. A clean cut across his palm. A shallow pool of blood. He cupped his hand to prevent any of the liquid from spilling. 



“The town needs you. It depends on you. You will work for me and defeat those who want to hurt it.” The mayor shook his head. He looked sick. Hungry. “It is my duty to serve this town. If you work with me to smite the rest of your kind, I will provide as much of my own blood as you need to not attack a citizen.”



The mayor was still now. It was terrifying. Javert had never seen a man look at once like a statue, and like a predator about to pounce. He held his hand out, trembling, to the mayor’s lips.



A grip like a vice steadied Javert’s wrist, threatening to break it like a twig. Javert looked away. He did not want to witness the act. 

Mercy

, Javert’s mind asked, 

or punishment

? 



Javert’s palm stung as the mayor’s tongue licked across the cut, seeming to burn it. Javert wrenched his hand back. The cut was gone. Javert watched as the mayor came back to himself. The man stood without looking at Javert.



“The saliva... heals the wounds.”



“Don’t do that again.”



The mayor nodded. He was swaying again, but already Javert could see the colour return to the mayor’s face. Javert wiped his hand against his handkerchief, then cleaned the knife.



“Javert…”



Javert bowed, shallower than usual. He knew the mayor noticed. “Until tomorrow.”



The mayor nodded. He left in silence.



-



One summer evening, Javert watched as a merchant sold syringes to the town for opiates. He’d seen a few about recently— apparently when mixed with a liquid substance (most chose an acid of some sort,) the drug could be inserted into the body for a greater effect.



Javert bought one of the devices once the merchant had passed through both the richest and poorest parts of town. The desperate and the affluent were the greatest target markets. The syringe could pierce and suck. Theoretically, he could use it to withdraw his blood without having to feel lips against his skin. Javert did not need to use the method for long— the mayor was revealed to be Jean Valjean.



-



Valjean woke and knew instantly something was wrong.



He was aware.



He was aware. That could only mean he hadn’t died. He was waking up. He’d fallen asleep. He jolted up, finding himself on his bed, sitting now, panting. He scanned the room, his hands, his clothes. Blood. …Blood. Cosette. He was on his feet before he could think any further. The room was dark, must still be night, the blood on his shirt was not yet dry, it clung to his skin, not warm, but wet, recent.



Cosette.



The nuns had adopted her into their fold, she no longer slept in the small gardener’s hut he shared with Fauchelevent. He slid from the house, not wanting to rouse the old man, taking the shadows to avoid being seen by any nun who may be out for a night’s walk.



They had been at the nunnery for two years now. Two years since they had left the shadows of M—sur M—.



 He focused on listening to the heartbeats of the convent, trying to find the one he’d been protecting as if she were his own daughter. In the focus, he nearly did not catch the smell that met him near the melon patch Fauchelevent had been tending to this season. 



The smell of death; recent, chilling, mixed with the familiar odour of newly turned dirt and cooling sweat. He was staring at the body of Fauchelevent, sat prone on the garden bench. The body was still, cold.



Valjean wanted to crumple atop the corpse, to beat life back into the man he’d adopted as a brother. He did not want to know whether this had been his fault. Whether he would cradle Fauchelevent’s head and see the puncture wounds he could not remember giving. He could still smell the blood on his own shirt. Could not bring himself to tell whether it belonged to the man beneath him. 



He had had to stop feeding from Fauchelevent a month ago, when he had watched the man faint from anemia. Valjean could not believe he had allowed himself to take so much, until he realised he had not taken more than usual; it was the simple repetitiveness that had downed the man. Fauchelevent had never quite regained his colour since Valjean had stopped. 



Fauchelevent had volunteered himself because he had preferred Valjean take from him than accidentally attacking a nun or Cosette in an unfed frenzy. A feeding once a month for two years had been enough to kill a crippled old man, and Valjean had only taken barely enough to sustain himself.



He had been tired yesterday. Barely sentient. He had felt heavy, had had a headache like he used to get when he hadn’t slept for days. His hunger had been less the churning one of his human days but like an itch setting every nerve in his body on fire. He had been put to bed by Fauchelevent. He had been starving. When he had woken up, he had been sentient and full. 



Valjean slid to his knees, feeling empty. Coming out of his panic, he started to separate smells, placing them where they belonged. The blood on his shirt belonged to the man sat before him. He had not killed a sister or his daughter. He sniffed again. Odd. The wound on Fauchelevent’s neck was not open as it would have been if it had been opened by him in a frenzied state. Valjean had seen countless victims of such attacks; bare muscle and the grim glint of white bone and sinew. Fauchelevent was clean, but for a cut in his palm. The instrument was the small knife Fauchelevent had used for cutting string to tie his vegetables to.



Valjean sat back, taking in the sight. Fauchelevent, sat calmly on the bench, surveying the garden. Knife in one hand, cut in the other. 



Valjean shook his head. No, no, this was not what God would have wanted. He had— Valjean had taken the life of this innocent man in order to sustain himself— had deceived Fauchelevent, had used him for his own gain until the very end, had literally bled the man to a slow death— Fauchelevent had offered himself to Valjean to protect the women of the convent— Javert had warned him of this. Javert had told him to find an alternate way. Instead he had relied, again, on the goodness of a man. Had thought of Fauchelevent’s consent as a good thing. 



Valjean collapsed, stricken with grief.



-



Consent. Death. Consent. Death.



Turning Javert would give the man the option to continue living. What he did with that option would be up to him. Valjean had the choice to give Javert a choice. A time limit. Heartbeat slowing, pulse weak. Valjean had to think. 



He hated the man who had turned him. Hated him with every fibre of his being. Felt the grip of anger tear at his mind. But had he died in Toulon, he would not have been able to help the people of M— sur M—. Would not have been able to rescue Cosette. Would have died a wretch, hating God. Bishop Myriel had seen him for who… what he was, and had told him God would still welcome him. He would not be consigning Javert to Godlessness, not if Myriel was right. But what applied to Valjean may not apply to Javert. Why would Javert have any reason to believe that Valjean had been trying to help? 



When Valjean still believed Javert had been the one to turn him, it had filled Valjean with hate. Every moment of his existence became a scream for revenge. Javert had many more years of hatred for Valjean to compact into such a thought. Valjean could be turning a volatile, hate-filled man into a superhuman creature. Javert could turn the other way, could turn 

from 

God; might use Valjean’s very existence to prove that there was no God to help him. Javert could fall into sin. 



At Arras, Valjean had put aside himself. Had spent hours going to and fro. Champmathieu. The people of his town. Champmathieu. M— sur M—. His soul, his name, his suffering. How much he could do for the town. How little he’d already done. What progress could be achieved. God’s will. Fantine. He could save so many more townspeople. 



Eventually, he had decided not to put trust in future windfalls. To gamble on what God may or may not have in store for him in the town. He could only do what he could at the time. It was not a gamble but a simple decision. To tell the truth when he was asked to tell the truth. What happened to the town was no longer his responsibility. He regretted it every day. More so when he found how the town had been crippled by the discovery of his criminality.



Javert was dying. Valjean had the option to save him. His instinct was to let Javert die. But why? Because in Javert’s position, he would rather have died. Because he would not have to live in fear of the detective. Because he did not wish Javert to turn to sin because of Valjean. Because he did not want Javert to hate his very blood. He could save Javert and Javert would have to realise what Valjean had realised. Every man could be capable of doing so. Every man could change. He could save Javert. He could let him die.


And so the Amis chapters begin.

Enjolras sniffed as he walked into the Musain, his nose scrunching compulsively at the smell. When he realised what he had done, he schooled his features, but it was too late. A quick glance towards the back of the room told him the three shadows had seen, or heard, his expression of disgust. Frankly, he was disgusted with himself.

This kind of bigotry was exactly what he’d been attempting to quash within his group of companions, but it was turning out to be harder than expected, especially having grown up with his education, being told since birth to actively hate those who-

Enjolras clenched his jaw, stopping that line of thought. No. His bigotry was his own, not his family’s. He had had plenty of time to educate himself, especially to the point where he could at least enter a room without visibly reacting to the smell of damp fur. Or so he’d thought.

He attempted to send an apologetic glance at the three, but they had moved, probably outdoors, possibly to the basement, knowing their habits. Habits which, he said to himself, were their own, not of their species. Grantaire’s drinking problem was his own, not because he was a werewolf, as Enjolras’ father would have led him believe. Had led him to believe. For nigh on twenty years of his existence.

Enjolras sighed. Not the start he’d been hoping for today. He’d been actively attempting to bridge the gap, after all, between the majority-vampire-minority-werewolf relations. It wasn’t even a bad smell, his inner child could be heard whining. It was just ingrained in his muscle-memory.

No, no more excuses. He had to admit his racism, and he would have to keep admitting it so he could check it before becoming vocal. Or visible, as it stood. Enjolras went to sit at the table the three had previously vacated: whether as an inward protest, or in the hopes that maybe Grantaire might return, or perhaps because of a mix of the two.

The three had been here for a while, he could tell, and he felt doubly bad sitting in the slowly cooling seat he wouldn’t be able to warm up. He spread his papers about him on the table as if that would make up for the space so recently vacated. It was only April and, despite the spring warmth, it was still cold within the rooms; though not cold enough for the café’s owner to light a precious fire, especially with so few people hanging about. Not that the cold bothered him, not now, but he liked the feel of warmth.

Enjolras was new to the feel of being a living corpse. His parents had wanted to preserve him in his beauty, to walk the earth as an eternal youth, with the prized possession of feminine features, a slight build, agility and grace. His father had been disappointed by his high blush as a child, though post-death, he had paled significantly. ‘Magnificently’, his mother had said.

They had taken him from his crib as a mere golden-curled baby. They were fond of telling him how they had taken him from a family who would most likely disown him, from parents who would not have loved him. They had not been cruel as his human parents would have been, they liked to add. She had seemed too slim to have supported the child herself. They had done a good deed.

For his part, Enjolras was glad he had been taken. His features had remained feminine, yes, but his body had not. He and his sister had been born identical. The blood he had been given only a few years ago had allowed him to die and be reborn ‘beautiful’. But beauty was, after all, in the eye of the beholder, and for Enjolras, that had meant a smoother chest. A stronger jaw. A deeper voice. He knew he had been beautiful, but now he was perfect. His human mother could not have given him this identity, even if she had willed it for him.

Enjolras had met others like him, too, who had been born in bodies they had not found beautiful. Who had struggled for decades only to find a rejuvenated body at the doors of death. To finally be able to breathe. Only at a cost.

Enjolras had been raised on servant blood, even as a human child. He had not known any wiser, not until he had craved it, and had realised where it had come from. He had tried not feeding at all, to avoid the cravings. He had lasted more than a month until he had woken three days after blacking out, a prostitute drained at his feet.

He did not know if she had been his only victim. He did not feel either relieved or pleased that his potential other victims would never be traced to him. There were just too many women killed for their blood to keep a track of who killed who.

Enjolras knew only too well what the world had come to for people like himself. He did not want to kill any more civilians. He couldn’t not feed. At least this way, less women died, and they could make a few francs for their blood. ‘The blood bank’, as it had come to be known. Just another form of prostitution. Just another level of decrepitating the poor. Literally bleeding them dry.

No wonder the werewolves hated them. No wonder Grantaire hated him. The wolves might not have had the most formal of educations or have a history of aristocracy, but at least they didn’t depend on eating humans for their survival, or for eternal youth. Enjolras lay his head in his hands, elbows propped on the sticky wood of the table.

Werewolf-Vampire relations were what Enjolras had been fighting for this last year. Or, rather, a trifecta of co-existence. If he had been either human or wolf, he knew he would have attempted to kill every vampire on sight. Haughty, vicious, man-eating… what positives did any of his kind bring but the personal ones he had benefitted from?

Many of his friends were vampires, some hundreds, some thousands of years old. Many had seen more bloodshed than any child like himself could comprehend. Wars, revolutions, what petty words for men, women and people of all other genders who had seen countless cities torn apart. Some fought violence with violence. Many had spent the more recent of their years in a kind of retirement that Enjolras found strength in.

Combeferre, for example, who found incredible solace in the developments in medicine, who had been teaching his human protégée, Joly, the advances in vaccinations. Enjolras was not entirely sure how old Combeferre was, but he was sure it was not the man’s first name, nor was this the first millennia he had spent teaching his students medicine. It made Enjolras smile to think of the smooth-faced old man as a modern-day Chiron. He only hoped Combeferre’s pupils met better ends than his ancient predecessors.

Jehan, too, had been cultivating themself for centuries. They had been born in America hundreds of years before colonization; had grown in a time where their tribe had accepted their identity. Jehan had watched poetry develop from roots and languages now dead. Where Combeferre could heal a wounded wrist or bloodied knee, Jehan could heal a mourning heart or soothe a crying child. They had attempted all kinds in their life: a constant experimentation of genre, gender, romance, Romance. They weaved flowers into their hair and sung songs of anger and the constancy of death.

Courfeyrac’s autobiography tended to change depending on who he was talking to. According to some he was centuries old, to others he was an Ancient prince. In every story, his personality remained the same. A romancer, a flirter, a charmer. Seductive no matter what era he had been born in.

Bossuet was only a decade older than Enjolras, a fellow youth amongst the leaders. Bossuet smiled. That was becoming rare, a genuine smile, even among the likes of Jehan and Courfeyrac.

Enjolras was also curious as to Bossuet’s current attempts at courtship. Bossuet had already succeeded in wooing Joly enough to be able to safely incorporate him, as a human, into their group as a ‘concubine’, tagging Joly, as it were, so no other vampire would go after him. Joly had been surprisingly pleased with this development, referring to the arrangement as a kind of ‘vaccine’. Human-Vampire relations were regular. Regulated.

Enjolras was more interested in the third party to their relationship, the werewolf Musichetta. If she was successfully courted, Enjolras would have the foundations of his cause set in stone. The first Vampire-Human-Werewolf relationship in history. The problem was not Bossuet nor Joly. Musichetta, from what Enjolras had been told, enjoyed their company in private, and was already a major player in their lives. The problem was Enjolras himself, and his ridiculously bigoted reactions. Enjolras’s mind returned to the three shadows from before: Musichetta, Grantaire and Éponine, the only three werewolves they had thus far managed to convince to even step foot in the Musain.

Neither Bossuet nor Joly would be fool enough to openly criticise Enjolras for preventing their love for their lady, but he was sure Grantaire and Éponine had enough to lecture Musichetta on for years. It was frustrating. Enjolras was pinning his entire existence on the love triangle, only for his own misguided affections to sabotage it all. It did not help that Enjolras was not ready to admit to himself that he, too, was in love with a werewolf.

-

Vampires were not public knowledge. The police, as such, assembled small teams of vampire hunters. Bahorel, for his sins, was one of those vigilante-esque members armed with holy water and stakes and sent out into the night to kill. He definitely looked the part; he was a big man, built of muscle under his dark skin, his regulation uniform comprising solely of black garments to make it easier to slip into the shadows. He could be intimidating with his height, he had grown up used to street fights and pub brawls and he knew the streets of Paris like the back of his well-scarred hand.

He just wasn’t very good at it.

Bahorel did not particularly hate vampires, as most of the operatives in his team did. He had chosen the profession not because of any revenge, as most hunters wished for, but because he had thought being a vampire hunter sounded like a pretty charming title. He would much rather have been a vampire, but there seemed like strict regulations in becoming one (as well as the moral quandary of becoming a pseudo-cannibal) and so hunting had seemed like the easier choice to follow at the time.

He considered this fact while he was watching his target, a vampire of medium build and with skin a shade slightly lighter than his own. The vampire worked in a factory painting fans during the day, and at a tavern hauling barrels at night. That had been what had first tipped Bahorel off; no human would be able to pull the long hours that this Feuilly could pull, first doing intricate, skilled work at the factory then switch to gruelling manual labour. Also, Bahorel could confirm, the creature was  beautiful  , which tended to be the vampire  modus operandi. 

Bahorel wondered how he could ask the vampire if maybe he wanted to kiss as an experiment in human-vampire relations. Then he imagined the conversation they would have to have when one exposed himself as a vampire, and the other a hunter. He imagined multiple scenarios; a bad end, where Feuilly ran into the night, never to be seen again. A worse end, where Feuilly attacked Bahorel, leaving him to explain to his superiors that he had failed to both kill  and seduce him. An even worse end where Feuilly simply killed him. A slightly better end where Feuilly turned him into his human concubine, or better yet, his vampire lover. The last scenario shattered with the thought of his boss finding him, now happily vampire-married to Feuilly and staking him in the heart.

He sighed, downing another drink so he could hail the vampire over for a refill. The tavern was a known den for vampires, which always made covert missions hard. They could smell a human from streets away, which was why Bahorel was sat without a weapon, attempting to blend in with the crowd as if an unwitting human traveller. He’d ditched his uniform for his workman’s disguise, which would hopefully mask any unwanted smells. Over the next few weeks, he would become a repeat patron of this Musain, hoping to befriend Feuilly and maybe a couple of the leaders so as to extract as much information about the rebellion as possible.

“Are you planning on paying for any of the wine you’ve drunk tonight?”

Bahorel laughed, patting his pocket, a few coins donated by the police to form part of his disguise clinking together. “Of course.”

Feuilly gave him a disbelieving look but gave him a refill anyway. “It tastes better when you don’t down it in one.”

Bahorel grinned at Feuilly’s back as he watched the vampire return to his duties. Feuilly had been watching him, which meant Bahorel was in with a chance with him. He wouldn’t be lying to his superiors when he said he was cultivating a valuable relationship… and maybe if he did manage to befriend the vampire, he’d be in with a shot of joining them.

Bahorel was, he realised as he stood to relieve himself, quite under the influence of the alcohol he’d been drinking. His superiors had told him to engage with a target tonight, which he’d done, and then advised him to go home so as to not seem like too much of an outlier.

He thought about leaving, but then one of the other men started to sing, which Bahorel could not very well resist partaking in.

-

Grantaire was quite obviously in love with an aristocratic prick of a prince of a species he did not belong to. Éponine found it hilarious, as she was wont to do. Musichetta simply smiled, coy, when Éponine brought it up. Grantaire thought it was the worst possible outcome he could have achieved from simply finding a nice place to get pissed at.

The place had had decent wine at a tolerable price, he told himself, he had not realised the place would become the meeting place for the vampire brigade. And, he continued, just because he had warily agreed to partake in a trial community of vampire-human-werewolf relations did not mean he had sold his family out because of some infatuation.

It hadn’t even been his decision to make. Musichetta was their pack leader, after they had splintered from the bigger group. It was her who had made the final decision to join Les Amis, and yet was it her who Éponine made fun of for having an inappropriate bias? No. Of course it was only Grantaire who deserved to be shamed for the follies of the heart.

Grantaire took a deep breath. “Zémire et Azor.... it’s an opera. Comedy.”

Enjolras looked up from whatever he had been writing. Something terribly important, Grantaire thought, worth his attention much more than Grantaire himself.  Somehow Grantaire had managed to gather enough courage to catch Enjolras after their meeting, bottle in one hand but not as drunk as he was pretending to be. Could pretend to be if all failed. Grantaire waved his hand around, as if trying to summon words. “Comédie-ballet mêlée de chants et de danses…”

“An opera.”

Grantaire couldn’t help but clasp his hands behind his back in a gesture of subservience at the cool look being directed at him. Had he not, he knew he would be baring elongated nails-come-claws by now, his body reacting to his fear. “An opera,” he confirmed, wondering how Enjolras could look quite so majestic simply sitting on the wooden chair before him, one leg crossed over the other in a kind of lazy, forced nonchalance.

“Well?” Enjolras asked, after a measured pause. “What about it?”

“Oh,” Grantaire cringed, this going nothing like he had imagined it panning out. “I— I have two tickets, if you… would like to join me.” Grantaire frowned, now wondering what he had made obvious. “To the opera. To see Zémire et Azor.... The opera. Comedy. Comedy opera.”

Enjolras looked at him, baffled. “This is hardly the time for folly, Grantaire. We are planning a revolution. What kind of image would we project if we were seen to be going to a... a comedy ballet?” Enjolras’s usually petit frown became harsher, as if he actually had emotions.

“You know  perfectly well that a revolution isn’t built on the back of anger alone.” Grantaire’s tone was dismissive, but at Enjolras’ taut jaw, his slightly raised eyebrow, he continued. “Is that not what Bossuet and Combeferre provide? The smile so that you need not lower yourself to be ‘one of us’?” Grantaire had thought he might have lasted longer than thirty seconds before criticising the man he had been trying to seduce, but apparently he was not destined to do so.

“‘One of us’,” Enjolras repeated, incredulous. “Am I not attempting to bridge our families? Are we not fighting for the same cause?”

Grantaire turned around, then turned back, his hands emphasising the distance between Enjolras and the other members of their revolution. “You sit and brood in this corner of the café as if you’d prefer not to have left your house, with a face like you might suck a man dry just for talking to you and you claim to be one of us—” Grantaire bit his tongue before correcting himself. “One of them?” Grantaire pointed at the rabble currently singing some drunk song or another in the main bar-part of the building. “ They  have integrated.  You  have not.”

Enjolras uncrossed his legs, brushing a lock of hair from his face as he watched Grantaire. It was infuriating and terrifying that Enjolras could control his minute facial expressions to be completely unreadable to Grantaire, who was a self-professed master at tells.

“You would prefer if I played cards? Gambled? Drank and sang?”

“It would make you more-” Grantaire paused, the phrase one he had never been able to remove from his vocabulary. “...human.” He paused again, though this time intentionally, to pull out the moment of supposed insult. “As opposed to a man made of marble.”

Enjolras was constantly divine in Grantaire’s eyes, but the cold flash of emotion- pain, anger, disbelief, they were the flashes of displeased god, a wrathful other, so far from a benevolent, unseeing statue. Depictions of Apollo were never seated, the god meant to represent the youthful beauty of an athletic Greek, but Grantaire could paint him like this, he thought, one arm resting on the back of the chair, the opposite leg tucked under a rung so as to position his body as if almost lying, surrounded by the haze of the candle-lit fumes of nineteenth century Paris… he would not look out of place in the ancient villas of Italy.

The remnants of the late spring sun were still managing to force their way in through the window besides them, illuminating the gold of Enjolras’s curled hair, making it look more akin to spun gold.

Grantaire felt ill thinking about the man. What could he possibly hope to achieve from asking this literal physical form of perfection to join him on a night to the opera, like it was some sort of bonding exercise— “What if,”  Grantaire blurted, the words out of his mouth scarcely before he could even think the idea through. “We called it the first in many werewolf-vampire bonding exercises?”

Enjolras’ look of sudden comprehension was disheartening to say the least. “If you would… enjoy my company, I am free tomorrow evening.”

How simple, Grantaire thought. Eliminate the idea of intimacy between them and the offer sounded tolerable.

-

“What happened to you?” Éponine asked as she sat beside Grantaire, who had been in the same seat for hours now, staring at the empty chair Enjolras had presided in earlier that evening. It was now reaching perhaps two or three in the morning, if the crowd was anything to judge by, and he wasn’t entirely sure when Enjolras had, exactly, left. Éponine sniffed, then scowled, a multitude of expressions wiping over her in quick succession. “Been fraternising with the golden boy, have we?”

“I asked him to the opera.”

“The opera?” Éponine asked, eerily mirroring the exact voice Enjolras had used those few hours ago.

“I thought it would be entertaining to ask. I thought he would know what it was. Doesn't everyone know what Zémire et Azor is?”

“Wrong crowd?” Éponine suggested. She clapped him on the back. “Your angel doesn’t seem the opera type. Sorry it didn’t pan out.”

Grantaire looked up, despair in his eyes. “He said  yes .”

Éponine didn’t react for a moment, needing a moment to gauge Grantaire’s reaction to what should have been a positive outcome. “Oh, well I guess I’ll need to revoke that sympathetic pat on the back.”

“You don’t seem particularly alarmed by his saying yes.”

“What is there to be alarmed about?” Éponine asked, mostly out of a sense of duty than of actual interest.

“You don’t know what it is,” Grantaire realised. “Is it not an opera everyone has heard of?”

“Not all of us have the time, nor the inclination to have guilty pleasures, no.”

“...The— I—”  Grantaire exhaled, resigning himself to the artistic bohemian he constantly stereotyped himself as. “It is an adaptation of La Belle et la Bête.”

“You’re taking your beautiful vampire lover to see Beauty and the Beast?”

“The comedy.”

“Beauty and the Beast the comedy.”

“Yes.”

Sometimes Éponine laughed like she howled; throaty, loud, terrifying. This was one of those times.

“And to make it worse,” Grantaire sighed, knowing he was only incriminating his future self in regards to Éponine’s bullying, “He only agreed once I’d suggested it like it was a team building session. Werewolf-vampire relations.”

“Not technically a lie,” Éponine commented, checking her claws were as intimidating as possible. Grantaire had known her long enough to know it was mostly for show, to impress the young human boy that had been hanging around the area lately. Though Grantaire was sure humans didn’t react too well to the long, sharp reminders that she could kill at any second, he also found it funny to watch her feign antagonism towards Marius while simultaneously showing herself to be a prime mating specimen.

“No,” was Grantaire’s slow reply. “But it hardly says good things about my powers of seduction.”

Éponine snorted, obviously of the opinion that Grantaire was worrying for nothing and no longer willing to engage his self-deprecating self.

Grantaire let his chin lie in his palm, elbow on table, closing his tired eyes. “You know it was Marie Antoinette who popularised nail fashion?” he asked. “Sitting, filing your nails… you’re as bad as the Queen.”

“Gunning for a fight, Grantaire?” Éponine asked, enough fight in her voice already. “Don’t you want to look good for your date?”

Grantaire let out a long, low breath, making Éponine roll her eyes. “You could ask Musichetta to go with you, make it a real pack bonding thing. Maybe some of the other Amis would go; I think Feuilly has his eye on that new one, Bahorel.”

Grantaire opened one eye to glance at her. “Would you come?”

Éponine did not hold his eye, simply looked out towards nothing. ”Don’t like opera,” she said, simply, before getting up and leaving. Grantaire humphed, remembered his half-finished bottle of wine, and continued to finish it.

-

This was not, Grantaire thought, exactly what he had envisioned when he had invited Enjolras. Curse his damned big mouth, and curse Éponine for her unhelpful advice.

As the curtains parted across the stage, he glanced to his left, down the row. Enjolras sat, watching the curtain mechanism with what could have been intrigue, but equally as likely, boredom. Next to him, Feuilly and Bahorel, engaged in a whispered (or, stage whispered in Bahorel’s case,) conversation about the stuffiness of the theatre. Then Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet, the three perfect patrons, waiting for the start in anticipatory silence. Then Grantaire.

The seven of them had managed to convince Gavroche, who had managed to convince his gang of gamins, who had sway over certain seats in the theatre, to let them sit together.

Grantaire had attempted to be a gentleman by waving Enjolras into the row first; hoping also to corner the man away from any of their other friends. Only, Bahorel being the shit that he was, saw the ‘chivalrous act’ and pushed his way past Grantaire too so that it was he, and not Grantaire, who was cornering Enjolras. Engaged as he was with Feuilly in conversation, the smaller man had followed him. By this point, Joly and Bossuet were oblivious to their surroundings enough to sit down next. Musichetta had given him a soft nudge as she passed him, sympathetic but finding humour enough in Bahorel’s action not to act upon it.

“It’s just so hot in here,” Feuilly was saying, to which Bahorel replied that Feuilly was probably better off removing certain articles of clothing. Feuilly swatted him, Bahorel grinned, and they fell into silence.

Grantaire watched the exchange and knew it should be he making the shitty comments, and Enjolras doing the swatting. He rolled his eyes. Humans. Bahorel was new, had only been hanging around for a week or so, but he was a laugh, and he’d had Feuilly in his sights from the moment he’d walked through the door, so he’d become like part of the pack almost instantly.

Feuilly had arrived only a year ago, alone and looking for work. He was well liked by the pack and by the vampires alike; he was impartial to their in-fighting, served both groups equally, and without blinking an eye.

When Feuilly sat with them, Musichetta and Enjolras could hold a conversation that even Courfeyrac could not coerce. They both admired him, Grantaire thought. His hardworking nature and his honesty carefully blanketing his willingness to fight to make him seem unsuspecting.

Feuilly was the exact opposite of Grantaire. Hardworking, honest, docile. They were perhaps the three greatest antonyms Grantaire could have used to describe himself, and God knew neither the man Grantaire loved nor the woman he venerated came close to  admiring him.

There was a short pang of jealousy that Grantaire was quick to smother. He held nothing against Feuilly, he was a great man, he told a sharper joke than even Bahorel, and gave good consolatory pats on the back. Grantaire valued their friendship. He liked Feuilly.

Bahorel had almost been a Godsend, in Grantaire’s eyes. For the last year, Grantaire had been keenly aware of just how  perfect Feuilly was for Enjolras; their ideals matched, they dealt with arguments by systematically sorting through their mismatched thoughts, they saw a similar future for their country. If Grantaire had not had a slight bias, he might have attempted to force the two together for how perfect they were.

Grantaire’s clenched jaw softened as Bahorel touched his hand to Feuilly’s, a movement uncharacteristically shy for the brazen man. When Feuilly did not move his hand, simply kept his eyes on the stage with a secret smile, Grantaire let himself slouch in his seat. It was good that the two were quick to become close. That they were having this innocent romance.

It vexed him that after only six days, they’d found their fairytale romance, and after six years, Enjolras still mostly thought of Grantaire as the local drunkard. He barely heard the first act of the opera, still thinking of Bahorel’s hand on Feuilly’s, and how Enjolras’ lay just next to Bahorel’s left. Would he have had the courage to touch Enjolras’ hand as the curtain rose? No, most likely not. Definitely not.

The theatre was packed, sweaty. Every time someone moved in their seat, he could hear it. Every mutter, every whisper, every secreted release of flatulence. Every heartbeat, however fast. He wondered what Enjolras thought of Grantaire’s heart; how it raced when Enjolras caught him staring. Probably assumed Grantaire was scared; feared him, or was gunning for a fight.

Grantaire licked his lips. Goddamn super-hearing creatures. “Bahorel’s an arse,” he said during a particularly loud crash of the cymbals. Musichetta tittered beside him, but Bossuet seemed not to notice, wincing instead at a screechy violin. Grantaire grinned, until he caught sight of Enjolras, on the end of their group, hands pressed against his ears.

Super-hearing. Opera. Full orchestra. Enclosed space. Reverberation.

 God  , he was an  idiot . The sounds were loud for Grantaire, he could barely hear himself think over the beat of the drums and the pitch of the lead’s voice, yet he knew the vampires’ hearing superseded the werewolves’ — and that as a newly turned creature, Enjolras would still be learning to tune certain sounds out. God, Bossuet was still in pain after a decade to get used to it… Grantaire ground his eyes shut and slid back in his seat, listening as the dancers pranced about on stage, and unsuspecting humans laughed at the comedy before them. God, he was an idiot. God, God, God...

-

Bahorel did not have a desk at the Préfecture de Police, nor would any of the officers there have recognised him had he walked in; instead, to receive his missions and to give his reports, there was a cloak-and-dagger procedure wherein a gamin might be sent to your rented apartment, telling you where abouts to wait for another gamin with another note.

Tonight, Bahorel was waiting on the steps of the Musain, twiddling with a pamphlet he had been given outside of the theatre the night before. On the pamphlet, (an advert for another theatre’s latest production,) was an illustration of a statue of an Ancient that Bahorel recognised from Le Jardin du Luxenburg. Beside the image was a small ‘14’, written in pencil to look like a simple printing error. He released the pamphlet into the wind for the weather to destroy.

It was almost laughable how close the Musain was to the Préfecture de Police— a short stroll down Boulevard Saint-Michel and you were on the front doorstep of the police. Bahorel glanced down that way, hands behind his head, fingers interlocked in his hair before turning the opposite way, heading towards the gardens.

As he passed tall trees shading parasol-holding ladies and long-stretches of the greenest shade of grass, he wondered how many of the single men in the park were undercover police spies, waiting to collect their orders, and how many were the criminals they were attempting to catch, using the park to select their next victim.

Bahorel counted the benches as he walked, looking for the fourteenth. Once he’d reached the tenth, he looked up to find the one he’d been directed to occupied. If Bahorel had not been the confident man that he was, he might have been annoyed that the man had chosen the only bench Bahorel needed, out of all the empty benches in the park. For anyone other than he, the act of sitting next to the man on the only occupied bench out of the hundreds in the park might have been a trial. An assay of their social abilities.

As it was, Bahorel sat down, folding his arms across his breast. For a moment, he sat, waiting for any kind of negative reaction. Once they had passed through the minute’s silence, he turned to the man and held out his hand. “Bahorel.”

The man had not moved from his revelry. He stared, glassy-eyed, at a row of trees across the path from them, apparently at nothing.

Bahorel let his open palm close with a shrug. He took a moment more to study the man, thinking he would not mind, what with the distant gaze and the lack of a formal introduction. The man was young, just barely out of boyishness, skin a light brown, black hair once cropped close now allowed to grow out in tight natural curls. He looked like an bourgouis that had been left out in the rain. Out of his family’s pocket, perhaps. Out of father’s favour. He looked like many of the young men Enjolras tended to dig out. Maybe he was. Bahorel stretched his neck further forwards by an inch, trying to catch a more forward-facing view of the man.

“It strikes me that we may have met before.” Bahorel broke into a grin. “The baron, right? Grantaire thought your name was hilarious.”

At the title, the man had flinched, the only evidence Bahorel had that the man was alive. Bahorel re-professed his hand. “Bahorel, Baron…?”

“Pontmercy. ...Marius.” Marius offered his own hand, though did not give their handshake nearly as much vigour as Bahorel.

Bahorel hoped Marius was in an unaware-enough mindset that he did not notice his wiping the leftovers of Marius’s clammy hand onto his breeches. “So, Marius, what ails you on this fine spring morning?”

Marius sighed but said nothing more. When it grew apparent that the sigh had not just been for dramatic effect and the silence would be permanent if left that way, Bahorel grew bored of waiting for a reply. He leaned forwards, rested his elbows on his knees, his chin in his palms. “Revolution got you down? Or… let me think. Bahorel’s got a memory like an elephant.”

He trickled through everything he’d overheard from simply having a couple of drinks at the Musain, sorting relevant and irrelevant comments, highlighting anything to do with one Baron Pontmercy. A flash, a word,  handkerchief . He glanced at the man and smiled, successful. In Marius’ left hand was a sheer white handkerchief, gripped tight. “A memento of a lover?” Marius’ grip lightened a touch; enough to allow Bahorel a glimpse at the embroidered letters. “UF. Urbaine? Ultime? U…” He scratched his nose. There were very few U names. “Ulrich?”

“ Ursula ,” Marius corrected, “My angel, Ursula.”

“Oh,” Bahorel replied, fairly taken aback by Marius’ angel’s gender. He’d taken it almost for granted that those at the Musain had  other  tastes, whether that regarded their sustenance or their sexuality. “So she’s a human, then? Said no to the prowler of the night?”

Marius shook his head, softly. “She does not know.”

Bahorel clapped him on the back, sending a hearty shock through the man. “That’s rough, friend.”

“Yes. Her father, he is one of us, but does not engage with anyone of our kind.”

“A vampire with a human daughter. The romantic cliché might just kill me.” Bahorel chuckled to imagine father and daughter; the former a hulking figure in darkness, the latter an angel in white. When Marius only fell deeper into his melancholy, Bahorel sat back on the bench. “Pontmercy, hm. Not a name I am familiar with.”

Marius nodded, melancholic. “My grandfather is Monsieur Gillenormand.”

This made Bahorel sit up, eyes wide. “As in  the Monsieur Gillenormand?”

Marius nodded again. Bahorel let out a low whistle. An bourgeois indeed, this Pontmercy. Grandson of the single most prolific vampire bourgeoise in Paris. Gillenormand was perhaps the eldest man on earth that Bahorel knew of, making this Marius a great-great-great to the power of infinite. But, Bahorel thought, perhaps of mixed blood. A product of the great family, born of one of the human line kept regulated by Gillenormand himself so as to pass genes, but tainted by foreign blood.

“My father,” Marius said, “Was a Colonel, and later Baron. He and my mother fell in love, but he was dark of skin, unattractive to my grandfather.” Bahorel rolled his eyes in a snide gesture of understanding. “But my mother was already pregnant, and she was my grandfather’s favourite child of her line, and so I was allowed to enter the world.”

“Let me hazard a guess— neither of your parents survived this.”

Marius again sighed, as if physically attempting to rid every ounce of oxygen in his body. “I apologise, I must come across an incredibly callous fool, revealing my life’s history to you, a stranger.”

“A friend,” Bahorel said with a wave of the hand, dismissing Marius’ pessimism. “A friend of a friend is a friend to me.”

Finally, Marius glanced at Bahorel with a swell of tears in his eye. “Truly?”

Bahorel nodded. There was, after all, the pang of guilt within his breast, knowing he had only asked Marius for his history so as to cultivate a greater view of the Musain’s inhabitants, and to befriend the grandson of Gillenormand by accident was an indescribable achievement. “Truly,” he said, thinking not of Marius, or caring much that he would one day betray the boy, but of Feuilly, and what it would be to betray them all.

“A friend,” Marius said, clutching the handkerchief tighter. Marius opened his mouth to continue, but paused and glanced up just as a boy appeared beside them, hands in his pockets.

“One of you’s B?”

“Big B, that’s me,” Bahorel said as he rooted in his pocket for a coin, exchanging it for the note. Bahorel ripped it open as he watched the boy scamper off. Once the boy had gone, he scanned the words with a calm he couldn’t quite feel. He needed to pretend the note was a trifle, and not something that could get him killed. He hoped Marius was too in love with his angel to notice the transaction between police-hired gamin and police-hired vampire killer happening right before his eyes.


 ‘The filthy malpractices that ran rampant among the urinals of Paris are a breeding ground of revolutionary thought. These pederasts, so beyond the law to be almost protected by it would be the first to succumb to dissident thought.’ 


Bahorel almost wanted to give up his cover, simply to read the letter to Marius. It was almost too good to be true, the wording of the letter conflating homosexuality with revolutionary thought.

 Let us all be pederasts, then!  Bahorel thought, with a smidge of pride. The Inspector had not been wrong, after all, most of the men he knew in the  Amis could not be construed as the ‘going home to a loving wife’ type. Present company excluded, of course.


 ‘You shall disguise yourself as one of those misguided wretches offering himself so as to determine whether this inquiry should be pursued further. Ensure you do not incriminate yourself.” 


The missive wasn’t signed, but it was recognisable instantly. Inspector Javert.

“I’m a wanted man,” Bahorel declared. “My boss finally found out where I live, and he’s coming for me.” His fake excuses seemed to fall on deaf ears. “ Á plus tard , Baron. I will return to help you deal with your angel some other time.”

Mention of Ursula brought Marius’ still-wet eyes eyes up, the gleam radiating thankfulness. “ Á plus tard , friend.”

Bahorel stood, smiled, waved and left, hands in his pockets gripping the note in a tight fist.  Friend. 


“Commitment.” Enjolras shrugged. “There’s your answer.”



“You endured three hours of 

opera

-”



Courfeyrac held up a hand. “His words were ‘bad opera’, Combeferre, don’t be a stingy.”



“You endured three hours of,” Combeferre glanced at Courfeyrac, “

Bad

 opera, because of… ‘commitment’?”



“Grantaire, and thus, by extension, the werewolves, requested my presence at an evening event. I am committed to making sure our families bond well. Thus, I endured three hours of…” He too glanced at Courfeyrac, “

Bad 

opera, because I wished to show that commitment to Grantaire. To Musichetta. To our fellow vampire and human friends.”



“But Bossuet says R left,” Courfeyrac said, swinging his legs as he sat atop one of the Musain’s tables, Combeferre sat in a chair to his right, Enjolras in a chair to his left, both facing him. “If he was the one to invite you, why did he leave at the intermission?”



At this, Enjolras’ expression of composure started to decompose. “I don’t know.”



“And you say you were ignored the entire evening?” Combeferre pushed his spectacles further up the bridge of his nose, a trait he revealed when he was feeling provocative.



“‘Ignored’ is not the word I used. I am aware of Bahorel and Feuilly’s… amours, perhaps more than I could wish after a night spent listening to them whisper their…” Enjolras winced. “‘Sweet nothings’ to one another. I do not wish to seem ungrateful for the invite because I happened to be sat apart from the rest of the group.”



“And so you stayed to the end despite being distanced from the group by our young lovers, and despite your host leaving half-way.”



“Less than half-way,” Enjolras corrected. “He left after the third act begun, though we saw him in the intermission, face red from alcohol.”



“‘Commitment’,” Courfeyrac said, after a beat, his voice full of admiration. “Well then, hats off to our fearless leader, who suffered through a most terrible night in the name of keeping up good relations.



Combeferre seemed lost in thought for a moment and Enjolras, picking up on this (but also wanting to derail Courfeyrac’s before he could turn his attention to the connotations of ‘commitment’ and question Enjolras’s heart,) leant closer to his friend. “What is the matter, Combeferre?”



Combeferre’s lip raised slightly in a smile as he touched his finger to the wire bridge of his glasses. “I have always wanted to see 

Zémire et Azor.

 I am sad to know that the current production is bad, else I might have tried to acquire tickets for myself.”



Somehow, Enjolras’ spirits were both deflated and lifted in one motion. He might have known of Combeferre’s passion for the theatre, and either invited the man along to begin with, or have given a more praising review, even if Combeferre were to hate it himself. But, as ever with Combeferre, his frank but gentle words, touched with humour, could make Enjolras forget, for just a moment, the disappointment he had felt about the trip, and it’s wasted potential on both the public and private fronts.



“Combeferre, you should have said, I might have…” But no, Enjolras thought, he would not have thought to invite Combeferre because he had been under the impression that the trip was to be a private affair between himself and Grantaire until he had seen the group of Amis amassed outside the Musain, waiting to travel together to the show. Grantaire had managed to secure not just the two tickets promised, but seven through Éponine’s brother, the pup Gavroche. Which had been… positive in that Bossuet could entertain his two guests, and that Bahorel and Feuilly could meet outside the café, seemingly the only place they ever saw one-another, but…



But. Enjolras was cultivating a sense of selfishness within him that, now he had identified it, would have to be rooted out. Selfishness in a leader attempting to bridge species? Unthinkable. Irresponsible. He would have to quash his influencing desires so as to focus on leadership. “We should go again. It might be better in the right company.” Combeferre, the sweet man that he was, smiled and nodded, taking up the offer.



- 



“There is a police agent amongst us.” Enjolras allowed the wave of whispers to spread around the room before continuing. “Perhaps more than one. A note from police to spy was intercepted en route to a patron of the musain.”



A hand shot up and Enjolras nodded, allowing the question. “How did you know it was a police note?”



Enjolras held up the paper, holding it between thumb and forefinger like it might hurt him just to hold it. “It smells, monsieur, like Inspector Javert.”



Another rush of whispers. Another hand. “But does he not mask his scent? Is that not why he is so fearsome?”



Enjolras nodded. So at least some were paying attention. He motioned towards the door, from which a flash of fur bounded, rolled, and changed, revealing the grinning Gavroche, stark naked and with his hands on his hips. “I am the pup Gav, and I am your saviour!”



There was a round of encouraging applause, mixed with laughter and whoops from some of those who knew Gavroche’s love of theatrics. 



Éponine threw a bundle of cloth at her brother, who unwrapped it to reveal his recently-discarded clothes, having turned to mutt simply for his entrance. Then, after pulling on his rags, he continued. “Dear Inspector mixes his smells, very clever, likes to use wolfsbane and frankincense to make us turn head before smelling deeper. But-” Gavroche grabbed the paper from Enjolras and took a deep whiff. “Inspector made a mistake, didn’t he. Snuff, probably got it out a second too early to ‘gratulate himself for his good work, left the faintest of smells.” 



Feuilly was next to put up his hand. “So the faintest smell of snuff means it’s a letter from Javert instead of from a friend of a friend?” Heads turned to Feuilly, as well as a disapproving mutter. Enjolras held up a hand to silence the crowd. 



“Well?” he asked Gavroche.



“Too good at his job,” Gavroche said. “Writing a letter without leaving your own personal muff? Inspector’s the only one good enough to be invisible in his letters. He’s been training his hunter buddies good, but none of them can trick this wolf.” Gavroche stabbed his chest with his thumb, proud as he was given approving smiles from the group.



“And if he 

has

 trained his men to be as good as he? Like you say, he is the best at his job. I doubt he would leave the scent of snuff near his work.” Feuilly once again turned heads.



Gavroche glared at Feuilly for a beat, brows meeting in the middle. Then, finding what he wanted, shrugged. “Then no matter, no one else got reason to be hiding his scent but the police, Inspector J or not.”



This explanation satisfying Feuilly, the room’s morale started to lift, and whispers of punishment for whatever spy may dare enter started to spread. Groups of faces started to investigate others, suspicion creeping on members both new and old.



“Quiet.” Enjolras’ voice was barely raised, yet there was instantaneous silence. “I will not see this group of friends torn apart by suspicion. We will use our minds in a productive manner, not sell out our friends and only help those who wish to see us harmed.”



Wariness slowly turned to acceptance, and there was no further vocalisation of doubt among those in the room.



Enjolras sensed Grantaire’s approach and steeled himself, not letting himself react when Grantaire put a firm hand on Enjolras’ arm, just below the shoulder. Grantaire did not bother whispering in the room, though he did imply secrecy by lowering his voice and speaking near enough to Enjolras’ ear that he could feel the breath. To hide any irregularity of his expression, Enjolras lowered his eyes to Grantaire’s arm, which was quickly removed. 



Enjolras glanced about the room of cocked heads and intrigued raised eyebrows, but sensing that war would not break out in his absence, nodded. “We will take a five minute break to dispel tension. When I return, we will discuss what our next actions will be.” He indicated to Combeferre and Courfeyrac that they would be in charge while he left, and the two came to stand in his place at the head of the table, already starting to field questions from the more eager.



Enjolras followed Grantaire to the back room usually only reserved for meetings with the core members of les amis, now empty but for the crates of wine edging the room.



Enjolras sat himself in his customary position at the table, but regretted his custom when Grantaire stood before him, not sitting as Enjolras had assumed he might. Enjolras felt strangely vulnerable in the position, with Grantaire above him, and so he focused on appearing stoic. “Well?” he asked when Grantaire did not immediately speak.



“The spy,” Grantaire said. “You will not be willing to think it, so I will.”



“Think what?” Enjolras probed, already on edge at having been accused of turning a blind eye. 



Grantaire considered his next words for a beat. Then he nodded to himself, pushing out his words. “Feuilly. It must be Feuilly.”



“Grantaire…”



“I know he, you and Musichetta get on well, but that’s just the thing: he’s new to Paris, to the group, and he’s already befriended the upper echelon?”



“There is no hierarchy in this group,” was Enjolras’ stock response, still reeling from Grantaire’s suggestion. Once Grantaire had made his feelings clear about that phrase, Enjolras probed himself, questioning why he had leapt to defence first instead of treating the accusation with logic. “Do you have any other evidence to back up your claim?”



“He’s clever. He asks all of the right questions. Even back there, he was undermining Gavroche, making everyone doubt an informant everyone has trusted since the child was born. Not to mention him being a werewolf? Undermining our voices, tearing the group apart… Feuilly… he’s too good to be true.”



“You’re attempting to pin guilt on a man because you consider him ‘too good to be true’?” Enjolras took the opportunity to stand, feeling it might annunciate his disbelief. “If you have nothing further to say, I’m going back to the meeting.”



Grantaire wheeled, following Enjolras to the door and grabbing him by the arm. Enjolras, shocked, pulled away with violence, leaving Grantaire with stormclouds in his eyes. Grantaire growled, deep, his displeasure at his treatment obvious. “He has no purpose here! He must be the spy!”



“Tell me, Grantaire, what is 

your

 purpose here?”



A laugh caught in Grantaire’s throat. “You invited me. You welcomed me in. 

You

 are my purpose here.”



“But now you dare to question the obedience of those with more purpose than you?”



“You raise this now? The others do not seem to find my presence so offensive!”



“

They

 tolerate you because of your humour.” Enjolras ripped his eyes from Grantaire, turning instead to the door. “You provide obedience to neither the symbols of authority 

nor 

the revolution. You debauch both with your uncooperative presence. You are a drunkard and I, for one, feel you are good for nothing.” 



Grantaire raised his eyes, and suddenly realised he had unconsciously dipped his head in deference of Enjolras’ superiority. While before he had avoided Enjolras’ eye from simple uncomfort in the man’s presence, this feeling was new. This was behaviour reserved only for his pack leader, for Musichetta. Grantaire found difficulty swallowing. Betrayal of Musichetta warred with a stab of reality, that his love for Enjolras really was unreciprocated. 



That Enjolras held Grantaire in low esteem was not news, but his frank dismissal, Enjolras using 

opinion

 to drive his feeling home… Grantaire took in a deep breath, contemplated screaming until his lungs burned, then let out his breath in a soundless sigh. He reached around Enjolras, enjoying the proximity one last time before he opened the door, slipped through the crowds of the main hall and left into streets lit only by the empty sky of the crescent moon above him.



Enjolras followed him midway through the room before being stopped by Feuilly. “Are you okay?”



Enjolras focused on the man through the haze he could feel descending upon him. Enjolras cleared his throat, showed a quick smile and pulled from Feuilly’s grip. “Perfectly.”



-



Bahorel was not a particularly small man, nor was he a very unforgettable one. Thus, he got quite a few strange looks as he stood in the corner of a public urinal, attempting to look ever-so-slightly debauched and ripe for the taking. Just the thought of the words made him snort, ruining a good ten minute’s worth of practise to seem serious.



“Then I says- then I says to ‘im-” A glance at the three men who’d entered the toilets told Bahorel he was best not to provoke them. The leader was dressed in a workman’s muddied clothes and sported a thick beard. The two beside him were similarly dressed and bearded, though slightly less groomed. Thinking desperately of running water, he made himself turn towards the urinal and started to pee. 



“-You one of those boys, looking for a bit’er business?” Bahorel kept his eyes down, hoping to God as the pair accompanying the talker sniggered. “‘Oh m’sieur’ he said, ‘take me right here sir, discount fer yer ‘cos yer such a man-’” Bahorel exhaled, relieved they had not been referring to him. “So there I was, trousers down m’ankles, cock out in the middle of the- middle of the bloody urinal-” The man was having difficult continuing around his own laughter, “then he turns to me, this- this kid, I’m talking, I’m sayin’ he was, sixteen, looked like he hadn’t even seen a bloody razor, he turns to me and he puts on this face, all serious and he says ‘M’seuir, you’re under arrest. I’m a policeman and you’re attempting to deface this public urinal.’”



The two men were in hysterics, doubled over as the speaker continued his impression of the young policeman. Bahorel kept his eyes down, a pit forming within his stomach.



“Yer a copper? I asked, still, still waving it around, still out for the world to see and- and he’s all ‘pederasts like you will not be tolerated-’ and I, oh you should have seen it, I says to him, I says ‘yer a copper? Far’s I see it, yer just cop-u-lated with me. Oh he went white as pissing snow ‘e did, ‘we did nothing of the sort,’ he says, ‘pants ‘round your ankles what you call copulation old man?’ and so now, now I’m laughing, got the kid all in a bind and I says to him, that’s not what your bosses are gonna hear when I tells them you enjoyed it. Pretty boy like you, only one reason you got sent in here. Your first job? and the boy goes all quiet, nods, dunn’e. Yeah. Boy like you practically begging to be taken seriously? Took yer job too serious? Couldn’t say no when I got all close?”



Bahorel could picture the boy they were talking about. Javert’s voice rang loud in his ears. ‘

Ensure you do not incriminate yourself.’ 

This had been the boy, then, the inspector was referring to. He had heard many such case from those spies sent to root out the pederasts; that those criminals they attempted to catch in the act would argue the case that it had been they who had been attacked in the toilets by the eager policeman and would ask for copious monetary compensation. 



“Yer a big lad, ain’t ye?” 



Bahorel smiled at the three men, who had turned their attentions to him. “Gotta store me liquor somewhere, ain’t I?” This elicited a good response from the men.



“Drink too much’n you’ll piss forever,” the man at the centre, the dubbed leader, said. “You got a big bladder?”



Bahorel, feeling rather scrutinised, finished and tucked himself back in, all the while attempting a genial, non-suspicious expression. He nodded to them as he passed, going for the door. “‘Evening.”



As he passed, the henchman to the leader’s left sniffed, then raised an eyebrow. “Friend of Grantaire?”



Bahorel felt his heart sink. “Know ‘im, yeah. You his friends?”



“You could call us that,” the leader said, “More like family.”



“Oh. I… He has never…” Bahorel wondered how best to tread through a political minefield he did not have enough knowledge of. “We don’t talk much,” he settled for. “Good man. Drinks like a fish.”



“Sounds like he ain’t changed much,” henchman to the right said, grinning in a way Bahorel suspected was only to show off his teeth, a pearly white glem of sharp edges.



“You tell him we said hello, yeah? That we still think of him. Him, and those two bitches he follows.”



Bahorel sighed. He had been so close. He could see the street from where he stood. 



He stepped towards the men, still smiling. “I’ll do that,” he said, offering out his right hand to shake the leader’s. The leader mirrored him, clasping Bahorel’s hand in a firm grip. Bahorel widened his smile, brought his left fist up and punched the man squarely in the nose. Then he kicked the man in the groin, throwing him to the ground, eliciting a very satisfying whine of pain from the man. 



The two henchmen stood in shock for a moment before rippling into their wolf form, long claws clacking on the tiled floor. There was only a beat for Bahorel to consider his game plan before the beasts lunged— Bahorel allowed himself to be tackled to the floor, more able to break his fall and avoid significant damage to the back of his skull that was as the two much-larger-than-expected beasts fell upon him. Bahorel struggled, his might just enough to push one wolf away with his hands, the other he lifted and kicked back with his feet. Preoccupied as he was with the struggle, he did not notice the leader pick himself up and transform into a mass of black, eyes brimming with hatred. Bahorel did not notice this, could not protect himself when the lead wolf prowled, eyed his line of attack, and leapt, teeth sinking into Bahorel’s neck.



-



R had set himself up in a café a few streets from the Musain in the past week, hardly leaving his seat but to relieve himself or to empty his stomach in the alley behind the café. He had not returned home, he had not stepped out of the café further than the doorpost, he had not seen daylight. He had counted the hours by wine bottle, by the length of a candle, by the rowdiness of the crowd around himself. He had thus fully resigned himself to the local drunk. He had coin, at least, and so the innkeeper was more than happy to mop around his live-in guest, providing bottle after bottle as the coins kept appearing.



Grantaire, amongst this, had not time to think of much else but his misery, surviving on nothing but self pity and the alcohol that was slowly replacing his blood. His mood had worsened, so much so that any humour he had had when he walked in, his rancorous banter with the tavern’s girls, had faded by the third day into silence, and no patron had heard him say anything further than the occasional muttering of what they thought might be “good for nothing.” This, of course, became the food of much rumour, the most common of which being that the young man had been laid off his job, or that his wife had emptied him out of their house. Either way, without his comedy, they took almost no interest in him, nor did they attempt to disturb his corner of the room. 



His senses washed almost clean by the constant alcoholic fume he now emitted, he prepared to sleep, head on his arms. He did not look up when the doors crashed open; drunk men were rowdy with the doors on a constant basis. His interest was piqued when the room fell to silence. Slow, thudding footsteps coming towards him, followed by the distinct drag of a heavy weight. Grantaire realised he could not smell further than his own unwashed armpits and peremptorily flinched. He would have to look up to know whether the footsteps meant harm. He considered feigning sleep, but decided he would prefer to stare his imminent doom in the face.



It took a good moment for the room to stop lurching enough for his eyes to adjust and focus enough on the man before him before he could break out in a good clean cold sweat. His eyes dropped to the dead weight on the floor and he gulped.



-



Feuilly, leaning as he was against the bar, had a good eye on all those who entered the Musain. Between pouring men and women their alcohol and handing out bottles, he spent the time watching people interact, keeping an eye on the movements of all those he found interesting. As his eyes flicked between groups, he picked between those he knew and those he didn’t, whether travellers in off the street, or old regulars he had not yet been acquainted with.



He glanced Enjolras, more often than not sat between Courfeyrac and Combeferre, their heads down over some document, Marius sometimes perched beside Courfeyrac when persuaded to come. He glanced Musichetta, accompanied by Joly, Bossuet and sometimes Éponine. He glanced Jehan, floating between the groups, tacked on to whichever conversation they found most interesting, though mostly with their notebook out and paying little attention to whatever was being said above them. He glanced the empty seat towards the back where Grantaire should have been, left alone as if a haunted space, waiting for its owner to return. He glanced the bar stool before him, occupied by some stranger Feuilly had no interest in, where Bahorel usually sat. 



Feuilly lost his grip on the glass he was cleaning and swore as it smashed at his feet, the sound barely registering above the crowd. As he swept the shards of glass with a broom, he kept swearing in his head to drown out the near-constant voice that told him that Bahorel had, in some way, betrayed him. It had been a week since Bahorel had disappeared without a word, the day after they had gone to the theatre together.



Feuilly had been nonchalant the first evening Bahorel had not showed up, overhearing Marius say how Bahorel’s boss had found out that he had been skipping work. It had been a surprise to learn Bahorel had a job, but also quite pleasing to know the man did not simply waste all his time on alcohol. Feuilly, for one, had not just been hoping for a bedmate, but had quickly realised that he had been having true affections for Bahorel. Quite thankfully, Bahorel’s reciprocation had been very clear from the outset. Feuilly had just assumed they were taking it slow out of a mutual desire to fan the spark into fire. There should have been no problem.



Feuilly gathered the pieces of glass and disposed of them with a slight touch more anger than necessary. But now Bahorel had disappeared to who knew where, leaving Feuilly feeling not just foolish, but… heartsick. It made every job just that little bit harder, and concentrating was becoming a task in itself. Imagining what Bahorel could be up to, wherever he was, was like a kind of self-inflicted torture. Perhaps Bahorel had bored of this place and had simply moved on, quick as how he had arrived. Perhaps there was another Feuilly out there, sat next to Bahorel at a theatre. Perhaps there were many. The stranger in Bahorel’s seat hailed him and Feuilly refilled his glass without a smile. Perhaps he was busy at work, making up for all the hours he had missed. Perhaps he was hurt. 



A crash from the other end of the room made him look up. Éponine was stood, her hackles evidently raised. Musichetta’s hand was on Éponine’s arm, not just comforting but restraining. Below her, on the floor, Enjolras, clutching his cheek, blood between his fingers. Feuilly felt the mood in the room ice over. Mutterings of dissent, insults whispered about Éponine’s breed, ‘told you so’s… 



Feuilly took himself from behind the bar, standing beside the group. “What happened?” he asked, his tone as neutral as possible.



“Your fucking king kicked Grantaire to the curb, that’s what.”



Feuilly faced Enjolras, still on the floor, eyes lowered. So the truth, then. “Why?”



Enjolras licked his lips before answering. “He brought unfounded accusations about members of our group to me. I cannot tolerate that kind of behaviour in a group designed to root out rumours.” 



“So you told him he was a useless sack of shit and told him to piss off?” Éponine went to attack again but was this time bodily held back by Musichetta. “He’s alone out there, and you— you haven’t even blinked an eye about it, have you. He’s not— we’re not 

supposed 

to be alone— he’ll—” Words failing, she turned to Musichetta, who had, Feulliy realised, been wearing an expression of disgust for Enjolras.



“You should have known better,” Musichetta told Enjolras. “Especially so close to…”



Enjolras was, it seemed, holding back his emotion. Feuilly could see evidence of true regret on Enjolras’ face, possibly even the beginnings of tears. Feuilly nodded. 



“Enjolras evidently regrets his decision. Éponine, you can see he is punishing himself more than your violence can hurt him.”



Éponine, breathing heavily, kept Enjolras pinned to the floor with her stare for ten… twenty… thirty seconds before ripping herself away from Musichetta’s grip and out the door. Musichetta sent her boys a brief look before following, leaving Courfeyrac and Combeferre to help Enjolras up off the floor. Feuilly passed Enjolras his handkerchief and the man wiped the blood from his cheek with it before handing it back. Feuilly bristled at the behaviour. Enjolras, in a time of weakness, had evidently let his body run by instinct than by thought and had returned to treating those about him as his family’s servants, so used to being handed whatever he needed and disposing it without thought. 




Dangerous

, Feuilly’s mind screamed. Enjolras, in this state, was dangerous. To the group. To the public. A glance at Combeferre told him that he was not alone in the thought. They shared a nod while Courfeyrac took Enjolras’s arm, leading the leader back to his room.



Once the pair had left, Feuilly clapped his hands. “Show’s over,” he said, waiting for the café to fall back into its routine before heading to the back room with Combeferre, grabbing a bottle of wine as he went, Joly and Bossuet following behind.



-



“It’s their time of the month,” Joly said, “The full moon is tomorrow, and it’s the first time Grantaire’ll be alone during the transition. It’s not safe for him, especially if, as Ép thinks, he’s mindless from drink.”



Feuilly scratched a fingernail against the table, trying to get rid of some unseen spot of dirt. “Can Musichetta and Éponine not find him somehow?”



“They rely on smell,” Bossuet explained. “And their sense is stronger than even ours. They’ve been around the area, trying to find even lingering tracks, but if he’s still in Paris, he’s very likely holed up in some drink house, fuming from the amount he’s drank.”



“So there’s a likelihood,” Combeferre started, hesitantly, “That he does not know how soon the full moon is, and might transform in public?”



“‘Chetta always joked about how R couldn’t tell the date on the best of days,” Joly said, with a sad smile. The smile faltered and his lip quivered as he neared tears. “If… if they see him, if he’s alone and they see him, they’ll…”



Bossuet put his arms around Joly, allowing the man to cry. Bossuet looked as if he were going that way himself. 



“They probably won’t be much help,” Feuilly said to himself, before opening up his thoughts to the group. “Musichetta, Éponine, they’re on edge. Their senses… heighten nearer the moon?” Bossuet nodded. “And they still can’t sense him. And we’re going on the assumption that he’s still alive?” The group was silent. “Well... we have nothing to say he isn’t.” Feuilly turned to Combeferre. “And Enjolras? He honestly regrets what he said to Grantaire?”



Combeferre looked taken aback for a moment, sharing a look with Bossuet. “You cannot mean you do not know…?” Feuilly’s alarm raised when Joly’s sadness seemed to flip, almost instantly, into a disbelieving laugh. 



“Know what?” Feuilly asked, brain whirring through conspiracy theories.



“Enjolras,” Combeferre said, “He’s in love with Grantaire.”



Feuilly confirmed this with a look about the room, swore, once, then took a deep gulp of wine from the bottle. “Grantaire?”



“The same,” Bossuet confirmed.



“And everyone knows this?”



“Of course everyone knows it,” Joly said, voice muffled by Bossuet’s clothes. “Haven’t you seen them?”



“At each other’s throats all the time?” Was Feuilly’s first response, before looking beyond the harsh words. He pinched the bridge of his nose. 

Obviously

. 



“They both think it could never be reciprocated,” Combeferre said, arms crossed. “Telling either otherwise is a nightmare, frankly put.” Feuilly looked at the man’s face for a good second before passing the bottle of wine, from which Combeferre drank an impressive gulp.



“And so Enjolras told Grantaire he was useless because…?”



“My best guess is that he probably felt his feelings for Grantaire were coming between his ideals and his actions. Grantaire most likely made one mistake, usually easily forgiven, which made it easier for Enjolras to excuse his harsh dismissal.”



“And Grantaire?”



“Could only take so many dismissals to break his heart.” Joly sniffed, then came out of his hug with Bossuet, wiping his eyes. “If they could just talk,” he said, voice small. 



“This is ridiculous.” Feuilly took back the bottle and drank while he thought. “And now Enjolras is self-imploding, Grantaire is missing, presumed in danger, Bahorel is who knows where.”



“You don’t know where he is?” Bossuet asked with a frown. “Bahorel, I mean.”



Feuilly caught the confusion on their faces and mirrored their confusion. “Did you all think…?”



“Well we assumed you knew,” Joly said, “Wherever he was.”



“I had a bet that he was tied to your bed,” Bossuet admitted. “I owe Courfeyrac a lot of money, if you’d like to keep it quiet.”



“To be fair,” Combeferre added, “You didn’t seem particularly… sad.”



Feuilly let out an irritated groan. “So we have 

two

 missing, two about to to turn and one in a state of depression because he hurt someone’s 

feelings.

”



“And Marius is in love,” Joly added. “He’s conflicted about fighting lest his lover be widowed.”



“Which leaves…”



“Us,” Combeferre said, waving at the four of them, “Courfeyrac, Jehan. Gavroche. Musichetta and Éponine if they can forgive Enjolras for killing their packmate.”



Joly made a pained noise. “He isn’t dead. Not... Not until we see his body. He isn’t dead.”



“Someone should visit the morgues then.” Feuilly nodded at Combeferre’s suggestion. “Every morning. I will go if no-one else can.” 



“I will too,” Feuilly said. “Share the areas.” 



“Enjolras will no doubt be hypervigilant tomorrow, to make up for the loss to his dignity tonight.” Combeferre sat back against the wall, head resting on the cool brick. “He’s going to be infuriating.”



Feuilly snorted, raising the wine bottle in a comisaratory salute. “Bossuet, Joly, what is the… procedure for the wolves’ transformations?”



“Traditionally, when they were part of the bigger pack, the family would migrate to the east, towards the thick forests. Now, when it’s just the three…” Joly lowered his eyes. “Two of them, they said they would head as far out of Paris as they could in the time they had left and find some countryside area.”



“And…” Feuilly paused. “What exactly makes this transformation any different from when they choose to do so?”



Joly hmm-ed, then brought out a small notebook from his waistcoat pocket, eyes flicking to his tutor from time to time to check whether Combeferre approved. “I’ve not had the time to propose an in-depth thesis, but… what I’ve noticed is that when the transformation is a choice, the mind stays human even while the features become creature. They can choose how far to transform, from elongating their claws—”



“-like Éponine, all the time,” Bossuet interrupted,



“Or to the full wolf-like appearance. The only distinguishing feature that markes a werewolf from a wolf wolf is that the former has a short, stubby tail, almost like a bear’s, in place of the waggy, dog-like one.”



“So when it is not a choice, as with the full moon…?”



Joly glanced at his notes, but Feuilly suspected he knew the answer and was simply stalling to keep his emotions in check. “The human mind disappears, and the werewolf becomes more animal than human.”  



“We’re all animals,” Combeferre said, eyes still closed. “Humans, vampires, we’re not innately better than wolves, dogs, moths. ...Sorry, carry on.”



“They become like us when we haven’t fed,” Bossuet continued, “Though without, necessarily, the thirst for blood. Ép and ‘Chetta usually feast for days before they transform so there’s no chance of them feeling hungry as wolves and letting instinct take over.”



“‘Chetta said once she had a cold and couldn’t feast this one time and she woke up the next day covered in sheep wool,” Joly said, attempting to joke. It fell flat and he seemed the most affected by it. “Who knows what diseases the raw sheep would have contained…”



“So they become more reliant on instinct than thought,” Feuilly interjected, hoping to prevent Joly’s downwards spiral. 



Bossuet nodded, then bit his lip. “I… That… It isn’t exclusively about hunger,” he said, and Feuilly watched as Joly blushed. “We can’t let Joly go with her on the travels because they… They seem to be able to differentiate between people they know or trust by smell. And for Musichetta, Joly smells like… mating.”



Feuilly couldn’t prevent a shocked laugh, his face splitting in delight at the thought of them having to protect the young Joly from attack by a wiley wolf. 



“‘Chetta says Bossuet does too,” Joly said in his own defence, “But also, ‘cos her nose is all powerful, she says the wolf bit of her doesn’t trust the vampire bit of him.” This seemed to hurt Bossuet, Feuilly catching a small wince in the man’s expression, quickly covered up. “Plus Bossuet is stronger than me, he can just about hold her off when she’s transformed. Even without this,” Joly indicated his leg, “I was never strong.”



Feuilly clapped Joly on the back with a rough grin. “A passionate woman too much for you?”



“I can actually hear Bahorel in your voice as you talk,” Bossuet laughed as Joly groaned from the insinuation. The three started to laugh before the realisation hit them all at once.



Bossuet scratched his neck, awkward to have brought it up. “Haven’t even caught his scent, recently, have you?” he asked Combeferre.



Combeferre shook his head, gradually becoming more serious. “Then we have the spy to deal with. Spies, even.”



“We’re falling apart,” Feuilly realised. 



Combeferre removed his spectacles and rubbed his eyes, suddenly seeming tired. He was old, Feuilly knew. Thousands of years old. Perhaps even older than Marius’ grandfather. Yet, despite his wisdom, he always seemed young, as young as any of them, the glint in his eye, the prospect of believing in a future that so many of the older vampires seemed to lose after centuries of disappointment. Perhaps he was on the brink of losing it. 



“Joly?” Combeferre asked after a moment.



“Yes, master?” 



“You and Bossuet, I want you to visit every place they serve wine in this area. Then move to the next, but I suspect young Grantaire will have stayed close. He’ll likely be there drinking all night, so you must stay up tonight until you find him, yes?”



The two men nodded. “And if we find him?”



“...Do you have a back-up for if Musichetta and Éponine do not make it to the forest?”



Joly turned to Bossuet, who went still. Joly frowned. “You do?” he asked, brows crossing. “I did not know this.”



“We didn’t think you would approve,” Bossuet replied, not looking at Joly. “It was only to be used as a last resort.”



Combeferre cut his young pupil off from further protestations. “Take him there, feed him anything you can. Hopefully he will not be hostile. Joly, if you get him in the room, you leave Bossuet to handle Grantaire and you fetch me, then you go get Courfeyrac. Yes?”



Joly did not miss a beat, nodding despite his slight look of betrayal.



“Feuilly.” Combeferre turned to face the man in question. “I will go to check on Enjolras. Once I have done that, I will send Courfeyrac to help you. I will try my hardest to prevent Enjolras from assisting; the least we need right now is Enjolras going missing too.”



Feuilly nodded. “But where to start?” He did not mean his voice to quiver quite as it did. He must have been more tired than he knew, the confirmation that none of the Amis knew where Bahorel was quick to send his mind reeling.



“Leave the cafés to Joly and Bossuet, if they find him there, so be it. Do you have any contacts within the police?”



“No,” Feuilly said, slowly.



“Then it might make it hard to request their help. Nethertheless I feel we should check the jails.” Combeferre scratched his chin. “Do you know where he works?”



Feuilly shook his head. “First I heard he was employed was from Marius.”



Combeferre confirmed the same, as did Joly and Bossuet. “So then we have our lead,” Combeferre concluded. “Start searching, perhaps the jails if you feel comfortable, and then I shall send Courfeyrac to take you to Marius.”



Combeferre surveyed the three before him and, after a second, smiled. “We mustn’t lose hope.” There was a grandfatherly warmth in Combeferre’s voice that soothed Feuilly, at least, filled him with some sort of soft confidence. 



The four left separately, Feuilly the last, spotting Madame Hucheloup behind the bar he had recently vacated. “Madame, I apologise, I must leave early.” Hucheloup was not best pleased, especially with the disturbance earlier, but with the promise that Feuilly would work more hours the next day, and would call today’s work voluntary or, without pay, she allowed him to leave.



Feuilly felt the loss of the wage keenly, having done more than eight hours of work that day already, but his heart, too, ached, and ached with the loss of something much greater.



Feuilly did not have contacts within the police. He had a single contact, an emergency-only line that usually only worked one way— from employer to employee. Inspector Javert, head of the Vampire hunters that Feuilly was a part of.



Feuilly had an inspector, a great inspector, a purveyor of justice on his side, and yet could not ask for his assistance, for the man Feuilly wanted to find was a vampire. Bahorel, certainly the most beautiful creature Feuilly had ever seen, frequenter of the hub of vampires that Feuilly had infiltrated… fate really was too cruel. 



Feuilly had almost resigned himself to submitting his dignity; he knew that, as a human, he could choose to be Bahorel’s concubine-of-sorts, as Joly was of Bossuet. Only, now Bahorel was gone and Feuilly couldn’t help but wonder if he was the only spy sent to this high-interest area, of if someone else was picking off vampires under Feuilly’s nose. 



Feuilly walked the five minutes it took to get to the Police precinct and hailed the receptionist. “I’m here to see Inspector Javert,” he said. The receptionist barely glanced at him before pointing down a corridor and pointing right. Feuilly was taken aback by how simple it was. He supposed Javert’s job was to protect the public, and that the public could thus walk in and request his assistance… 



There was something fundamentally chilling about the man he knew as Javert, sat behind a desk in a rigid, completely upright position as he flicked through a case file, face carved into concentration so deep-set it seemed almost permanent. Feuilly waited before Javert’s desk, not daring to interrupt the man’s work, taking Javert’s brief flick of the eyes up to Feuilly’s face as a sign to wait. He knew he was in Javert’s peripheral vision and so he waited in a soldier’s silence: not fidgeting, not swaying, hands held behind his back, feet shoulder’s distance apart. 



Feuilly watched the clock just over Javert’s shoulder, counting seconds out just for something to do. When he had reached seventeen minutes and thirty seconds, Javert shifted, so slightly that his impeccable posture had not changed but so that his focus was not on the page. 



“Yes?” The Inspector’s voice did not seem to contain emotion: no pleasure, for sure, but also no annoyance. Nothing as base as curiosity either, which could very much read as disinterest, or hostility. Feuilly wondered if this man were hostile, or perhaps just, with no information, unable to form an opinion one way or another of Feuilly.



“Inspector,” Feuilly started, and then wondered how exactly he was meant to reveal himself to a man who had very strictly told them never to reveal themselves. “I…”



“I know who you are.” Feuilly caught the tone of the Inspector’s voice this time, and could hear a conscious levelling of his familiarity.



“Right.” Feuilly tensed, involuntarily under Javert’s scrutiny. “I wanted to ask you something.”



Javert raised an eyebrow, ever so slightly. “Well?” The lilt of his voice turned into something almost bored, or joking, in a kind of blink-and-you’ll-miss it sense of the word. The briefest of emotion. 



“Are there…” Feuilly stopped and reconsidered his words. “My mission was— 

is

,” he corrected quickly, “Reconnaissance.” Javert nodded, once. “They grow suspicious of a spy,” he said, and saw Javert’s face return to emotionless.



“If you are here to give a mission report, I will not be pleased.”



“No, Sir. I just wanted to know... Is there a second… even third spy?”



Javert’s eyes twitched into a sort-of squint; so brief that Feuilly could not discern whether it was an expression of guilt and thus a yes, or of suspicion, that Feuilly was about to double-cross them. “Why is this relevant to your mission?”



“There have been… disappearances. I wondered whether you had ordered one of ours to…” Feuilly found the right word and felt his heart drop. “Eliminate them.”



The blank look in Javert’s eye told Feuilly that the answer was no, even before the Inspector could open his mouth. “How many?”



“Two that I know of.”



“Two vampires…” Javert’s hand found his pocketbook, flicking it open and scratching notes to himself. “High up the food chain or common foot soldiers?”



“One vampire, sir, new but part of the core.”



Javert’s face betrayed his interest, a slight downwards turn of the mouth. “And the other? A human whore or some such?”



“He’s a werewolf,” Feuilly said, stamping down his instinct to protect, or to argue against. If Javert were to suspect Feuilly’s growing feelings towards the group, there would be little chance he would see them again, more likely locked in jail for… what, treason? Spying? Plotting revolution? 



“A… werewolf?” Javert said, head cocking just slightly. His pencil had stilled on the page. “Have you been aware that there was a werewolf amongst them?”



Feuilly felt his mouth go dry, all at once. No, God, he was a fool. He had not reported the coalition between the three groups, not yet. At first he had simply wanted to gain more information so he could submit a more comprehensive report, but until recently… he had not wanted to jump the gun too fast. He had wanted to protect the secret in case he were to jump the proverbial Hunter ship. And for what? To let his mouth run without thought before the one man to whom it would matter. 



Feuilly swallowed, then nodded. “Yes, sir. I was… hoping to gain more information about the… wolf,” singular, he thought, keep it singular. “Before jumping to conclusions. It seems he was… interested in a member of the group,” filter truths to surround lies, “But he went missing, just after they suspected a spy. I wondered…” Feuilly stopped himself, knowing his next statement would have been going too far beyond white lies to keep his options open.



“Did you converse with him much?”



“Yes.”



“About?”



“He was fairly guarded to anything beyond jokes, Sir.”



Javert considered this for a moment. “He did not tell you why he had split from his pack?” Feuilly shook his head no. Not a lie, technically. Javert scribbled something in his notebook, watching his words as if trying to decode them. “How long had he been part of the group?”



“Perhaps a year. Relatively new, but established.”



“His name?”



Feuilly faltered. “Excuse me?”



Javert glanced back up at him. “His name. Come, you frequently joked with him, you must have his name.”



Feuilly attempted to channel his nerves through thought. “He… he went by ‘R’,” Feuilly said in a rush. Yes, that would protect Grantaire’s identity.



“‘R’? Hm.” Javert noted this. “And his real name?” Feuilly probably went a shade paler, for Javert scoffed. “Come, you cannot think I would believe that a spy of mine did not learn his name.”



It felt as if Javert were reaching out, through Feuilly’s chest, and grabbing hold of his heart, squeezing it dead. Feuilly closed his eyes, tasting betrayal like sour milk. “Grantaire.”



Javert nodded, jotting it down. “Grantaire,” Javert repeated. “Description?”



“A head shorter than myself. Brown skin, lighter than mine. Hook nose, thick curls, beard.” 



“A Greek, perhaps,” Javert wondered to himself. “His interests lay with who?”



Vaguely, Feuilly could hear himself give excuses to his candid answers. If there really were multiple spies, it would only harm his case to give false information so well known. “The leader. Enjolras.”



“Ah,” Javert said, as if this did not surprise him, drawing a tight arrow from the name ‘Grantaire’ to the name ‘Enjolras’ in his book. 



“Reciprocated?”



“I cannot be sure, Sir.”



Javert’s eyes flicked up at this. “You cannot be sure? Were they in bed with one another or not?”



Feuilly’s teeth ground. “No, Sir.”



“Hm.” Javert scribbled something illegible in the book, losing himself to thought.



“You seem disappointed, Sir.” Feuilly willed himself to sound blank.



“Yes.” Javert ran out of room and turned to a new page. “Yes, I have been given orders, and this would have been a nice link. As it is, it may be usable.” 



“May I ask what the order was, Sir?”



Javert smiled, the first Feuilly had witnessed since meeting the man. “How old are you?”



“Twenty seven in October, Sir.”



“Twenty seven. Do you have a wife?”



“No, Sir.”



“A girlfriend? The tavern girl where you work?”



“I’m— I am seeing someone, Sir,” Feuilly said, mostly just in the hopes that Javert would cease his line of question.



“I see,” Javert said, and must have believed Feuilly’s intensity, for Javert shrugged whatever questions were to follow away. “Then no, you cannot ask what my orders were.”



Feuilly’s mind whirred about the apparent non-sequitur— Feuilly’s having a partner and his asking after the orders? So the orders must have something to do with seduction; no respecting Government official would ask its officers to embark on a task when wed or with the promise of such on the horizon. 



Feuilly’s mind wandered back to Grantaire, and Javert’s interest in the reciprocation— Gears clicked into place. 

Javert had been ordered to link revolution with homosexuality and vampirism.

 As the realisation hit him, he saw that Javert very much intended him to figure out the answer, a sliver of pride in Javert’s eye as he watched Feuilly pull each threat together. But why? Why would Javert need Feuilly to know without telling him directly?



“Has there been any other report of people going missing?”



“Not that I know of, Sir.”



This did not seem to be the answer Javert was looking for, evidently jarred by the answer. “No.” Javert sighed, leaning back in his chair. “...No, there have been no orders to eliminate. Simply to watch.”



A confirmation of several spies, then. Feuilly’s mind tracked familiar routes from the last week; revolving through faces, through motives, through disguises in an attempt to identify his fellows. It was hard to reroute suspicion away from fellows he did not know.



“Knowing would put you more at risk,” Javert answered before Feuilly could vocalise his request. “If I were to tell you, you would seek one another out and your conversations could raise questions.” 



“But—”



“You cannot trust anyone in this profession.” Javert’s voice had taken the steel of a superior, one with decades of experience to speak from. He looked serious, not in concentration, as he had before, but with genuine advice, genuine concern. “Even your most trusted allies may not be what they seem. Hence, I reiterate. You cannot trust anyone.”



“Not even you, Sir?” 



Javert grinned at Feuilly’s challenge, the sight so ferocious it sent a shock of adrenaline through his body, every muscle screaming to run. 



“I trust you’ll hide my scent before you return to your duties?” Javert asked, seeming almost entertained.



“I was asked here,” Feuilly said, seeing no point in lying now and desperate to escape. “They will expect me to smell of the police.”



Javert hummed, low and deep. “Well then,” he said, and then focused back on his paperwork, as seamlessly as if Feuilly had not just been talking with him. Feuilly turned, and walked, and left, out into the streets before he could say anything more foolish. Once out, he took a breath of air, deep, to clear the panic from his blood. 



“Head to head with the great Inspector himself, hm?” Feuilly’s heart jumped to hear Courfeyrac’s voice, feeling guilty, so guilty— but no, he had a reason, an excuse, he was told to be here, he was— “‘Ferre told me you might hit up the jails. Got nerve walking in and going straight for the head.”



“Not intentionally,” Feuilly said, calming his breathing, knowing that Courfeyrac would be able to hear his panic. “He was the only one free.”



“Look like you barely made it out.”



Feuilly touched his hand to his brow, self-conscious now of how he was sweating. Then, inexplicably, he started to laugh. “He’s terrifying, Courf.”



Courfeyrac was smiling in that way he did when he was promising that he understood you. Without changing expression or tone, he continued. “Imagine what he’s like with a stake at your heart.” 



Feuilly nodded. No, he could not imagine. Feuilly had met with a reasonable Javert, as close to camaraderie as Feuilly was sure the man could come to. 



For Feuilly, hunting was just another job. He had taken it on simply because Javert had offered it to him, a young man at a factory. Not exactly police work, but better paid than the factory, and for nothing more than sitting, waiting and watching. 




And talking, befriending, having genuine feelings for…

 “Fuck,” he said, “Fuck, fuck this.” 



Courfeyrac took Feuilly in, his still-sweating forehead, his panicked flush, his wide eyes, his ragged breathing, and his smile changed, minutely, into one of sympathy. “He really did a number on you, huh.” He reached out to touch Feuilly’s shoulder. “Come, Marius awaits. We can talk while we walk.”



-



“It is probably for the best that it was me waiting for you outside of that building.” 



Feuilly and Courfeyrac had been walking in mostly silence for the last half hour as they directed themselves towards Courfeyrac’s apartment, and Feuilly had almost forgotten that the other man walked besides him until he spoke, a neutrality rare for the typically bouncy Courfeyrac.



Feuilly’s questioning look prompted Courfeyrac to continue.



“Enjolras and ‘Ferre, they believe in you more than they do most members of the Amis. Some would say they listen to your advice more readily than mine—” Courfeyrac held up his hand to quash Feuilly’s protestations. “And with good reason. I have no mind to organisation, that is why I suit the pair so well.” 



“Courf…” 



Courfeyrac pinched the thumb and forefinger of his extended hand together, as if a conductor signalling for quiet. “I do not envy you,” Courfeyrac assured, “In fact, I am relieved that they have you to provide a human perspective. A touch of reality, as it were.” 



“But…”



“Don’t you worry, I have not lost my ego quite yet. I still believe you cannot destroy our trifecta, nor do I believe you could upseat or upstage me. Because while I may not be as intelligent as our dear friends, I have a good nose for people. It is why they will always trust me to filter out bad intentions.”



Feuilly directed his gaze at the cobble, attempting to swallow the fear he could feel rising in his throat. “I don’t think I understand you.”



“It is why they have trusted me with the task of flushing out the spy,” Courfeyrac said. Feuilly felt himself go cold. Willed himself to keep walking. 



“I do not believe you would go to Javert to report Bahorel missing.”



Feuilly kept going forwards, biting his lip, feeling his breathing start to labour. He had no weapon on him, nor did he believe he could outrun Courfeyrac. It was dark, the summer sun already mostly set. Not many people out on the streets, plenty of alleys to drag Feuilly down— a laugh— Courfeyrac, laughing, Feuilly jumped, not daring to turn back to match expression to laugh. It would be Courfeyrac, then, who would make the killing blow.



Courfeyrac’s hand on Feuillly’s shoulder from behind, squeezing tight. Courfeyrac’s nails were sharp, filed that way by Éponine during one of their evenings bonding. Then— then the hand was gone, and Courfeyrac was chuckling. 



“A mouse! I would mistake you for a mouse, Feuilly, if I were to pass by and listen to your heartbeat. You sound like you’re being chased by a big, scary cat. And your eyes, darting to alleyways. No, come.” Courfeyrac twisted Feuilly to face him, physically maneuvering him around. 



“It- I didn’t- I haven’t—”



Courfeyrac sighed. “You are a police spy, yes?”



“I haven’t—” Feuilly bit his tongue in his haste. “I swear, Courfeyrac, I have not given them anything, I swear, I swear—”



Courfeyrac let Feuilly come to tears, to flush red with guilt, with terror, kept watching him as he turned through each emotion.



“Then that is fine.”



“I’m sorry, I swear, I—” 



“We’re good, Feuilly.”



“No, no, you don’t understand, I lied, I— I told them about Grantaire, I told him, 

him

, Javert knows about Grantaire, and it’s my fault.”



“You told him what? What, specifically?”



“That he was— a part of the group. They did not know that they were part of us.”



“Oh. ...Oh, Feuilly…”



“I know, I’m so sorry, I—”



“No, Feuilly, you don’t understand, you’re a goldmine! A double agent! You only told him about Grantaire?”



“I— I let his name slip, but kept his presence singular.” Feuilly’s fear was ebbing, and he rubbed his sleeve against his eyes to clear his tears. Still feeling guilt like a knife through the heart, he could not meet Courfeyrac’s eye. “He did not seem suspicious.”



“What else did he not know?”



Feuilly dug his teeth into the inside of his lip. So this was it, then. Courfeyrac expected this of him… of course he did. To be doublecross the man who’d taken him in. Courfeyrac’s fingers moved to Feuilly’s lapel. 



“Feuilly…”



Feuilly swallowed. Then swallowed again. His throat felt rough. “Can I… Would you mind if... would you trust me if I asked if we could continue this conversation at a later date?”



Courfeyrac paused. He then took a step back, smoothing out Feuilly’s lapels as he did so. He put a finger to his chin, the other arm propping up his elbow. He looked like a great philosopher, or a dandyish impression of one. Feline, consciously embodying the great cat to Feuilly’s mouse. Even his smile showed canines like a hunter. “You know, Feuilly, I believe I will trust you.”



“Oh, thank God.” Feuilly deflated by half, all unnecessary air leaving his body in a great sigh. While doubled over, his brain was given a chance to empty, then reset. Once he had regained some composure, he stood back up and offered his hand to Courfeyrac. 



It was taken and shaken and the two men nodded their regained friendship. Feuilly could not even begin to imagine what risk Courfeyrac was taking by accepting Feuilly’s proposal. “There are two of us.”



“Well yes,” Courfeyrac said, pointing first at Feuilly, then at himself in an exaggerated gesture. 



“No, spies. Possibly more. That is all I’m willing to say on the matter for now.”



“Then to Marius,” Courfeyrac said, the barest shadow of thought on his face.



“To Marius,” Feuilly echoed. Courfeyrac nodded, kicked his heel against the road and carried onwards.



-



Marius, it turned out, was not at Courfeyrac’s apartment as he had been assuming. “He has not been gone long though,” Courfeyrac assured. 



“You can tell that by just—” Feuilly took an exaggerated sniff of air, making Courfeyrac laugh.



“Nothing as dramatic as that, we’re majestic creatures, not swine.” He breathed, normally, if a bit staged due to the nature of the thing. “The smells are all around us, all the time. His is still strong, hence he must not have left.



Feuilly nodded, understanding. Then, with a thought, frowned. “But then—” he started, “What do I smell of?”



“You? Feuilly we love you. You smell clean, all the time. It’s a goddamn miracle with how much you work. Honestly, you’d think in a group of beings with powerful senses, more would take the time to clean themselves.”



Feuilly felt himself colour, gratified by the compliment. “...But… so then why on earth did Bossuet bet against you, regarding Bahorel’s disappearance?”



Courfeyrac’s face was blank for a half second before breaking into a grin. “That devil, ah so I win! He owes me a lot of money, Feuilly, I thank you.” Courfeyrac rubbed his hands together, as if ready to be handed his coins. “Bossuet believed in your cleanliness to an extent that he said you would be able to wash the smell of sex from yourself. Thus for him, a safe bet was that Bahorel was with you, fucked into submission.”



Feuilly’s face heated further, gratified that the group believed so much of his powers of seduction, but equally mortified that they had discussed the relationship to such an extreme.



“I, for one,” Courfeyrac continued, “Do not believe that that amount of sex could be washed from your sinful skin, no matter how much soap you used. Hence, the safer bet, you had not had sex with him yet.”



Feuilly gaped, for a moment, then decided nothing he could say on the matter would change Courfeyrac’s triumphant grin, so he shut his mouth. 



“Well then, with that sorted, let’s go find our lost boy, hm?” 



-



Their search brought them to the gates of the Gillenormand household. Feuilly felt himself go a few shades lighter. “I can’t go in there, Courf, you know that. They will eat me alive.” 



“No, come, the old dodger’s plenty genial, and his daughter would not make a move on you without the man’s permission. The rest of the sorry lot in there is human, or what’s left of them anyway.” When Feuilly did not move to follow Courfeyrac through the gates, Courfeyrac turned back. 



“We don’t have time for this.” Courfeyrac bit his lip in thought, before giving a dramatic ‘oh course’. “I’m going to concubine you.”



Feuilly blinked. “While I’m flattered, I—” 



“Temporarily, you fool, I know I’m an irresistible catch and any offer of loving is a temptation, but I do have my limits.”



“Oh. Yes, right, quite.” Feuilly nodded. He supposed he did know a few vampires who had cycled through human concubines, able to replace them when the relationship wasn’t working out. “How does it work?” 



“It relies on scent-marking, as a cat does with its territory.”



The disgust must have been plain on Feuilly’s face for Courfeyrac laughed. “I’m not going to piss on you, Feui.”



-



Feuilly’s hand hovered above the smear of blood on his neck. Every eye in the room was pinned on it and Feuilly was desperate to scratch it off, his body urging him to make himself less obvious, to hide from these predators’ sight.



Marius’ eyes flicked to Courfeyrac, panic in his expression. “Does Combeferre know? Courfeyrac, this will destroy him.”



“Relax, my dear.” Courfeyrac was licking his thumb to heal the wound, his very posture the complete opposite of Feuilly’s: relaxed, comfortable, at home. “It’s a temporary measure. A way to get him inside the house without being jumped.” 



Marius nodded, still jittery. His eyes returned to Feuilly. “Courfeyrac, may I speak to you? Alone?”



“Please—” Feuilly said without meaning to, the very idea of Courfeyrac leaving him alone in the room with the five or so servants and Marius’ Aunt sending him to the boundary of hysteria. He implored Courfeyrac with desperate eyes, who then turned to Marius and indicated Feuilly’s face.



“I cannot in good conscience leave the man alone. Look at him. Scared white, the poor mouse.”



“But…” Marius watched Feuilly again, looked back at Courfeyrac, and sniffed, his eyes widening at Courfeyrac in a ‘can’t you see the problem’ sort of way.



“Oh, oh I see!” Courfeyrac broke into a smile. “Dear Feuilly’s just been to the police house to check whether they had Bahorel behind bars,” Courfeyrac said, clarifying Feuilly’s smell. 



Marius calmed some, though there was doubt lingering behind his eyes. 



“He wasn’t,” Feuilly said with a bitter edge. “Behind bars. But thanks for asking.”



Marius, for his sins, had the grace to seem sheepish. “I’m sorry,” Marius said, “My mind has been elsewhere, and, well, with all this talk of spies…” 



Feuilly felt himself rise to the insinuation, before quickly realising that Marius was right to suspect him. Feuilly was exactly what Marius expected of him, and there was no reason Feuilly should feel anything but shame. Courfeyrac put a hand on Feuilly’s wrist and squeezed lightly, encouraging. “Of course,” Feuilly said, as genial as he could make himself.



“You had some business with me?” 



Feuilly felt some relief in getting back to topic. “Bahorel,” he said rather desperately. “You were the last to see him. Did he say where he was going? Or… did you read what the letter said?”



“No, a boy came… and…” Marius squeezed his eyes shut, like a small child attempting to think hard. Feuilly supposed that that was what Marius was… all accounts said that this boy was only a recent addition to the fold, so he could not be more that his apparent age: early twenties, if that. Species aside, Feuilly could well be a decade older than the boy. “I think I recall him saying his boss had found where he lived? That he was in great trouble? Then he called me friend and left.” 




A lonely boy clutching to the promise of friendship. 

Feuilly chastised himself for sounding quite so damning of Marius.



“Humans are exceedingly selfish.” Marius was all but pouting, a petulant child, and Feuilly found himself taking back his mental apology. 

Rich brat

. “What?” Marius asked Courfeyrac, in a confrontational mood. “That he’ll search for Bahorel, but not Grantaire, after what he’s done.”



“Don’t mind him, Feuilly, Marius is just in a bind because his amore is a human girl. Love makes the best of us blind.” 



Prickling at the dismissal, Marius stood, pointing at Feuilly. “It’s because of him that Grantaire left,” Marius said, brows pinching in a way that seemed to suggest half that he was bemused, half that he was accusing.



“What—” Feuilly started, before Courfeyrac cut him off with a sharp “Marius, not now.”



Marius cocked his head at Courfeyrac. Feuilly turned to watch as Courfeyrac sent Marius some silent warning.



“What?” Feuilly asked, “What is it that I have done?”



“It’s—” Marius tried, but Courfeyrac was quick to once again stem the man’s words.



“Courfeyrac,” Feuilly warned, eyes darkening. “Tell me.”



“I shall tell you once Bahorel is safe.”



“And if he’s dead? Shall it remain a great mystery forever?” 



“He’s not dead, Feui.”



“And how do you know that, Courfeyrac? Can you smell him? Can you… sense him? Can you hear his heartbeat?”



“No…”



“No. So tell me.” 



“Grantaire told Enjolras you were the spy,” Marius said in a single breath, too quick for Courfeyrac to censor. “But Enjolras could not believe him and claimed he was simply being spiteful because of your wit, and so he kicked Grantaire out.”



“Enjolras… believed in me over Grantaire?” Feuilly’s heart was well on the way to destroying itself. Every emotion he was capable of seemed to have disappeared to be replaced with the one, repeating notion. Guilt. Guilt, guilt, guilt guilt… He shrivelled into himself, shoulders hunching, head bowing, fists clenching. Whatever had happened to Grantaire, to Bahorel… it should have been him. It should have happened to him.



Courfeyrac’s hand on his back, stroking in soft motions, as if to quell sickness. “Anything else you remember that might help us, Marius?” Courfeyrac asked, his voice softer, quieter, as if to speak away from Feuilly’s hearing.



A silence. Feuilly assumed it was a no. “Except…” Marius said, after a beat. “I thought it strange that the boy asked for ‘B’, instead of using his name. ‘Big B’, he called himself.”



A gamin coming to collect him. A nickname. Feuilly groaned. It could only mean one thing...that Bahorel was part of a gang. 



“When I heard ‘boss’ I actually believed that he was employed,” Feuilly laughed. It was not a very happy laugh. “But of course, he was simply referring to his gang leader. Why am I not surprised.” 



And if Feuilly was to get an in with a gang, he would have to exploit a gang-member. But the only one he had access to was Éponine, who was currently, well, transforming into a creature even less helpful than she usually was. 



Courfeyrac, having come to the same conclusion, simply shrugged. “Is this not good for us? It is far easier to search for gangs than through every place of employment in the city.”



-



Even before entering the room, Feuilly could smell the distinct smell that followed Jehan around wherever they went, even to his unrefined nose. Oil paints, scented candles, alcohol for cleaning brushes with, and the slight tinge of tobacco smoke, apparently from nowhere as, to Feuilly’s knowledge, the artist themself did not smoke.



Courfeyrac knocked once before entering, not waiting for any kind of permission, much to Feuilly’s horror. “Jehan!” Courfeyrac greeted. “Hope we’re not disturbing.”



“Not at all,” came Jehan’s voice. “Welcome, welcome!” they said once they appeared in the doorway. “Feuilly! What a pleasure. Come in!” 



“Sorry to disturb you…” Feuilly glanced at Jehan’s paintbrush. “Are you working?”



“Hm? Oh, yes, but I welcome guests any time. It helps me concentrate!” Jehan beckoned them further in, the mix of smells thickening the further they entered. Feuilly, curious, looked about the room. He had never visited the apartment of an artist before. It was littered with newspapers, drying canvases, various paints and— 



“You’ve got to be kidding me.” All at once Feuilly understood why it was that Courfeyrac had directed them this way, and where the tobacco scent originated from. Sat on Jehan’s bed was Montparnasse, his hat on the bed beside him. Montparnasse raised a hand in salut. 



“I said no moving,” Jehan chastised as they went to sit on a chair directly opposite, easel before them.



“He’s apparently Jehan’s greatest muse,” Courfeyrac explained as he went to sit on another chair in the corner of the room, set up with a table to accommodate two guests. “Make yourself at home,” he said, indicating the other wooden chair, the image of a perfect host in lieu of Jehan. 



From their position, they had a perfect view of both Jehan’s work and the muse himself, Jehan’s paintbrush mixing oils on a palette before dabbing Montparnasse’s likeness onto the canvas. Montparnasse himself sat perfectly still, left leg dangling off the side of the bed, the other drawn up so his right ankle rested on his left knee. He propped himself up with one arm behind him, the fingers on the other hand tangling through the hairs at the back of his neck. His face tilted towards the window, as if in thought.



They watched in silence for some while, the only break when Jehan got up to take another tube of paint, and not once did Montparnasse so much as roll a shoulder out of place. “He certainly acts the part,” Feuilly conceded to Courfeyrac. Feuilly had not once seen the man sit so quietly before, almost trance-like, his attention not catching on anything. Even as he watched out of the window, his eyes did not trail the movement of a bird or cloud, his attention did not wander that Feuilly could see. 



Feuilly himself marked every movement he made on the rickety chair, conscious not to disturb Jehan but most likely doing so anyway. He sneezed, twice, he scratched an itch on his nose, he shook out a crick in his neck, he scratched his cheek, a bird caught his attention… He was not, he concluded, cut for the role that Montparnasse was playing. He found himself building new respect for the dandy. Very few could play a role so much so as to become a living embodiment of it.



Feuilly glanced about as far as he could in his chair to catch glimpses of more of Feuilly’s works. He had not seen their portfolio before, had only heard their poetry and seen pencil sketches drawn on scraps of Marius or another Amis’ pocketbook. Jehan, of course, never brought their own. 



Here in the studio Feuilly was able to see Jehan’s more colourful works: still-lifes he could recognise as this or that vase from the room, some more abstracted works, rivers, he thought, or perhaps skies, and then portraits, some quick, charcoal, others more thoughtful, as the one Jehan was painting now.



“May I?” Feuilly asked after having exhausted what he could see, and indicating the stacks of works hidden under tarps or acting as clothes-hangers.



“Of course!” Jehan replied, barely taking their eyes off of Montparnasse. “What use is art if one cannot view it.”



“Not this argument again,” Montparnasse said under his breath. “Please, please don’t argue with them. Jehan, don’t. Feuilly doesn’t want to hear it.”



“I—” Feuilly started to object, interest in the matter flaring, before Montparnasse moved from his position to throw him a look of hatred. 



“Don’t you fucking dare.”



“You’ve moved!” Jehan cried, so heartfelt that Feuilly could not but feel responsible. And so he shrugged, allowed Montparnasse the win, and moved towards the art.



First he gravitated towards the charcoals, easier to flick through. Most were very quick, a few strokes to capture a movement, most likely all from a life-drawing session. He stopped as he neared the back and realised that this hypothetical session had had a single model, and that he was seeing a lot more of that man’s private areas than he was comfortable with. He glanced behind his shoulder, feeling almost like a voyeur, and caught Montparnasse giving him a wink. Feuilly cleared his throat, nearly scrunching the papers by accident. 



He moved on to the oils. The first was a self-portrait in cold colours; a look on Jehan’s face much unlike any he showed publically. Melancholy… lonely. But almost refreshingly so. It was nice to know Jehan took the time to be sad, too, instead of wholly a ray of sunshine. 



The second was of Enjolras, all glory and youthful victory in red. Then Courfeyrac, sunshine in his eyes, out in the green of a park. Combeferre, in a library Feuilly didn’t recognise, and smaller compared to the first three, the man tucked away in a corner of the canvas. Grantaire, looking away with a smirk, in shadow. Joly, mimicking Combeferre’s pose, but closer, less dower. Bossuet, mid-laugh, almost over-saturated. Éponine, grinning, fearsome, the lines more harsh. Marius… only partially complete, but looking hopeful. Feuilly started to slow as he came to the last two canvases. 



There he was, behind the bar of the Musain, slightly hunched as he cleaned a glass. Maybe thoughtful? Bright. It was the first time Feuilly had seen himself portrayed, and displayed as something worthy to be looked at. He felt his throat go tight at the thought, which was foolish, he told himself, and forced himself to look at the final canvas. 



Bahorel. Grinning. A rush of sound and Feuilly could hear the exact joke Bahorel had been telling. It had only been a fortnight ago, something stupid about a duck. Bahorel hadn’t been able to stop laughing as he told it. Feuilly tried to clear his throat, quietly, not wanting any of the others to pay attention to the way he was wiping at his eyes.



“Feuilly, you’re an artist too, yes?” Jehan had evidently been watching him, then. “Bahorel told me about your fans.”



“I don’t think you’d call them art. It’s just painting flowers on sticks.”



“Then all I do is paint humans on cloth,” Jehan dismissed. “You can have the painting of Bahorel. If you’d like it.”



“...Thanks. I’ll… wait until he’s home.” Feuilly turned and returned to Courfeyrac, forcing a smile. “He’d think I was a real creep if he came home and that was on the wall.”



“Knowing Bahorel, I’d say he’d be more than flattered.”



“All the more reason not to.” Feuilly laughed, wiping his nose with a handkerchief. 



The bed creaked in its corner as Montparnasse was finally relieved of his post, rolling his shoulders like an old man after a harsh night’s sleep. Feuilly watched Jehan watch Montparnasse, watched Jehan dab a slight bit more paint in the corner of canvas-parnasse’s lips, curving the edge into the barest flicker of a smile. That, more than anything else, made Feuilly’s gut wrench. 



“Bahorel is part of a gang,” he blurted, the situation ceasing to stop being calming in its normalcy. “We need him to tell us what he knows.”



Montparnasse was cleaning dirt from underneath his fingernails, feigning disinterest. Then he looked up, and smiled. “‘Him’ has a name.” 


What's this, an update after over a year?


They were not friends, Javert thought, not quite. Javert had no experience with friendship, but he thought it might be a little less… awkward. 



“What?” Javert asked, noticing he was being watched and scowling on instinct.



Valjean shook his head quickly, guilty at having been caught. His eyes dropped to his work, as if hastily reading. When he looked up, minutes later, and found Javert still scowling, he couldn’t help a self-deprecating smile and, once again avoiding Javert’s gaze, he spoke to his work. “Your eyes seem bigger.”



“Excuse me?”



“Your eyes. ...You have been squinting less since M—sur M—.” Valjean had only noticed this a few weeks ago, in a similar situation they were in now; alone in the fire-lit library of Valjean’s house, working alone but together. Valjean had looked up, checking, perhaps, to see if Javert was comfortable, or if he looked as if he would need to rest soon, only to find Javert watching him, book abandoned on the side. 



The moment had struck Valjean (and Javert, too, who had jumped from his seat and gone to fetch another book). He remembered the way Javert would watch him when he still suspected Mayor Madeleine, hard lines of his face pressing Javert’s cold eyes into that perpetual predatory expression, so much so that Madeleine couldn’t have even guessed at the colour of the Inspector’s eyes, despite their proximity at the time.



Since then, Valjean had been noticing Javert’s eyes more and more, not just at home but as they walked the streets together. This too, had changed- where before, on their rounds of M—sur M— and the surrounding docks Javert had marched, eyes forward, head held high through the streets, now Javert’s attention might be caught by the leaves of a tree or a decoration on a specific building, a child playing with a piece of garbage, a pedlar hawking her wares.



Javert’s eyes were a honey-ish brown, the base a hazelnut just darker than his skin. Madeleine would not have cared if he 

had 

noticed. Valjean thought them wonderful.



“I...“ Javert squinted as if to protect himself, his bodily instinct to contradict Valjean. “You...” A frown accompanied the squint. “Noticed.” Javert released the tension in his face, slightly, eyes sliding from Valjean to the window. 



“The leaves,” Javert said, nodding in the direct of the tree outside. Valjean turned to see, but other than a fairly ordinary tree, he wasn’t sure what he was meant to be looking at. Javert cleared his throat, unused to bearing his weaknesses. “Before you… well. My eyes. I couldn’t… Hm.”



It took a moment to decode Javert’s disjointed mutterings, but Valjean soon realised what he had been alluding to. “You had bad eyesight? Javert, you should have said, I would have found an optician.”



“You think I would have allowed M'sieur le Mayor donate me glasses? Pah.”



“Javert,” Valjean reprimanded. He wasn’t sure whether it was because of Javert’s constant separation of Madeleine from Valjean, or whether it was Javert’s aversion to his ‘charity’.



Javert waved his hand. It was not important. Valjean decided he would allow the feud to dissipate for once. “I suppose for this, I must thank you.” Javert studied his own fingers, turning his hands over, before focusing on Valjean’s face through them. If Javert were still capable, he might have coloured to find himself so scrutinised by Valjean, in a setting such as this. As it were, he felt his features soften in an expression of forgiveness. Thankfulness. 



Finding the moment filling with more sentiment than he could handle, Javert sought to change the subject. He cleared his throat before lowering his eyes to watch Valjean’s work. “Your writing. It has changed since M— sur M— .” Valjean’s quill paused, hovering above the page. Javert shook his head. “I apologise. That must be strange to mention.”



“Not at all.” Valjean pushed the papers closer to Javert so he could read them without feigning disinterest. “I wasn’t sure you would notice.”



Javert sat back, his mind, it seemed, in the mood to reminisce. “There was a criminal... Jondrette,” Javert said, slowly. “He would send letters to rich families claiming he had blackmail material, or that their children would be in peril if money was not ‘donated’ to the messengers.”



A flicker of a memory passed Valjean’s face and Javert scrutinised him. A moment of intense doubt: was Valjean Jondrette? Before the eventual guilt, a feeling he was getting more used to feeling. Valjean, perhaps picking up on Javert’s suspicion, saddened. “I was not he,” he said.



Javert nodded, one, twice, thinking, yes, this man was telling the truth. “So why the shadow of memory?”



An involuntary smile. Valjean smothered it quickly. “I have been victim to many such letter in my time in Paris.” Javert’s teeth ground at the thought. Of course. That was not surprising. “Some I had ways of verifying their lack of truth… ones that, for instance, claimed my… fatherhood of a young child.”



“And I don’t suppose you simply handed those to the police?” 



“...To think of such a rouse, one must be in an unfortunate situation…” 



Javert felt his eyes roll in an exaggerated expression of disbelief at Valjean’s extent of charity. “For God’s sake, Valjean.”



Valjean’s smile returned. “Yes,” he said simply. “Exactly.”



“And the other letters? You would believe those?”



Something more serious passed over Valjean’s face. “Once, the author of the letter followed through with his threats. I did not see it wise to provoke any further danger to my family.”



Javert studied Valjean, face downturned, lit by a crackling fire, a bulk of muscle, hulked over, a shag of white hair hiding the most of his expression. Javert felt his stupidity like a punch to the throat. “You. You were the kidnap victim.” Then, “That boy, your son-in-law. He-”



“Marius.”



Javert felt the need to cover Marius’ presence at the scene of the crime, wanting to question the boy and his lack of help for the man Javert now knew was the father of his wife. He opened his mouth to dismiss his hasty words, before squinting. 



“You… You cannot have… He was but a few metres from you.”



Valjean shrugged a shoulder, as if squirming from the question. 



“You knew he was there. Ah God, you irksome man! You might have asked for his help!”



“And endanger the young man’s life? No.”



“Surely you could have smelled the powder, the pistol?”



“I could also smell you, Inspector, and you’ll forgive my past… hesitance to be in the same room as you. Particularly as I was, bound to the bed.”



Javert bit his lip, hating that he felt almost slighted by the turn of events. His past self had been so angered by the disappearance of the very man they were attempting to save that the victory of catching Thernadier had seemed almost dismal. Javert took a deep breath to clear his mind of the negativity of the thought. 



Suddenly, Valean laughed. At Javert’s pinched eyebrows, Valjean apologised. “Sorry, I just… I simply remembered your words when you burst into the room. ‘Would you like my hat?’” I did not appreciate your humour at the time, but now I wish I had been your friend sooner, so that I might have laughed.”



“I doubt many would believe that I had one. A sense of humour, that is.”  



“I admit that you do not show it very often.”



“The thrill of finally catching that criminal had an effect on me, I suspect.” His eyes dropped back down to the paper on the desk, and remembered his thread of thought. He shook away thoughts of comedy. “Jondrette… Thernadier. He would never change his handwriting, and so if we had caught him with a letter, we would have had plenty of evidence. But you…”



A corner of Valjean’s lip lifted in a tight smile. “You commented on my hand before, in M—sur M—, how the letters seemed strange to you. So I’ve been practising. To make them more pleasing. ...Aesthetically.”



“You could barely sign your own name in Toulon.”



Valjean nodded. “I taught myself shortly before I became mayor.”



Javert hummed, sounding impressed as his finger traced the words on the page. “And now this. Nothing short of aristocratic.”



“I wanted Cosette to learn to write with a pretty hand, not like an illiterate ex-convict.”



“I’m sure the Sisters would not have appreciated that, no.”



“It was strange,” Valjean said, as if weighing his words, testing them in his mind before opening them out to Javert. “To… watch her grow.” Valjean looked at his hands, then, tentatively at Javert, as if wondering if he were to be allowed to look. Finding Javert intrigued, Valjean continued. “My sister was my elder. When I was old enough to care, she seemed an adult to me, never an adolescent. Her children…” Here Valjean stalled, not wanting to sour the mood.



Javert put the letter back down on the table and touched his hand against Valjean’s on the table- no more than a gentle brush, no force nor warmth. Simple encouragement, as Valjean had displayed towards him. “I regret not having watched her children grow up. To have seen them living.”



“You wish you had had children?” Javert asked, and then frowned. That did not seem appropriate now. “Of your own blood.”



“…no.” Valjean’s brow furrowed.



“And yet you seem unconvinced by your own answer.”



“Fantine, in her last hours, talked of another daughter she had had. Cosette says she does not remember another child at the house but Thernadier’s daughters. Then there was that savoyard, and my sister’s children, children I’ve wronged, whose faces, whose 

names

 I cannot remember. There are so many children I’ve not been able to save, even if they 

were 

my own blood.”



“Gervais.” The name fell from Javert’s lips like they had been waiting to escape. “Little Gervais. The forty-sou piece you stole from the savoyard.”



“Gervais,” Valjean repeated, little more than a whisper. “You— how did you know?” 



“You underestimate what lengths I went to find you.” 



“I would never underestimate you,” Valjean scoffed, barely a joke. “I have never underestimated you.”



Javert found the sentiment at once amusing as well as chilling. It spoke of decades of fear. “So your Cosette has a sister?”



Valjean exhaled, sounding hopeless. “It was nearly two decades ago. The girl is very likely dead, and if not, impossible to find.”



Javert thought for a second. “If they are twins, would she not smell of Cosette? Her… blood?” 



Valjean nodded. “But where to start? Even if she had made it to Paris, there is an uncountable amount of people, masked by the smell of pollution…” He looked back down at the paper he had been writing. “Which is why 
I'm currently writing an essay about the state of our sewers. I propose we—”



Javert’s eyes snapped to the page, picked it up to scan the words. He hadn’t payed much attention to what it was Valjean had been actually writing as the way he had written it. Now he scanned the words. “The Land Impoverished by the Sea,” Javert read. Chapter one. “

‘Paris casts twenty-five millions yearly into the water. And this without metaphor. How, and in what manner? Day and night. With what object? With no object…’

 Valjean, what is this?”



“A plan for the cleaning of Paris’ sewers, starting with a scientific evaluation, followed by a historical analysis of past attempts, concluding with a plan for the future.”



Javert allowed the wad of pages to fall back to the table, Valjean hurrying to sort the pages back into order. Javert slumped back into his chair, hand to his forehead. “

Valjean

,” he said, conscious of the tone in his voice. “You’re a being with superhuman smell. You cannot go to the 

sewers 

of Paris to disinfect them.”



“We have plenty of time?” 



“No, you have plenty of time to garden, to learn an instrument, not to clean sewers.”



“But if we implement a sewer system that cleans the sewage, not just carries it into our rivers, perhaps Paris could be a safer place for people like us to live, to walk the streets without the constant stench. Thus, making it easier to find her.”



Javert shook his head. “While admirable, it’s technologically impossible. We should consider searching in a more traditional manner. A paper trail, while incredibly boring, must exist, and can be found far quicker than an entire reworking of the Paris underground.”



“Perhaps for you, but I cannot do what you do. I cannot investigate cases, I cannot find clever routes to solve problems.”



“You are addressing the man who failed to find you after decades of searching.”



“

You

 are addressing the man who resorted to breaking into his people’s homes to leave coins when they were too stubborn to accept charity.” 



Javert recognised the exact moment that Valjean realised he had made a mistake. It was the half-second after Javert remembered the coin he had found in his room that night, the night he had refused to take the mayor’s offer of a raise. “I should have known it was you!” Javert exclaimed, “That damned coin haunted my dreams.” Valjean seemed distressed at this, so Javert explained himself. “You cannot believe I simply said to myself ‘how strange, a coin worth a quantifiable amount more than my salary I do not remember owning, on my floor! I must have dropped it!’” 



The look on Valjean’s face said that he very much did expect that to have been the case. “Or, at least, that you might think someone had… donated the coin as thanks for some justice.”



“Oh yes, the town was practically 

throwing

 its disposable wealth at the 

loved

 lawmakers.” Javert sat himself back down, calming some of the edge he had felt. When Valjean’s attentions turned back to the pages before him, wiping some imaginary dust from the paper, Javert saw he was fighting a losing battle with Valjean’s sense of justice. That, faced against Javert’s desire not to see Valjean nose deep, back in the sewers that had so recently spat him out, was an image enough for Javert to consider his pride in the matter. His pride, which, until recently, had been much of what made him who he was. 



“Which reminds me… I 
had hoped to ask…” Javert’s jaw tightened, averting his gaze to the window. Pride or Valjean’s health and, likely, sanity, doomed to spend the rest of his second-life in the sewers beneath the house. Valjean waited for Javert to be comfortable again, exuding his trademark patience. “That you might…” Javert looked for the words, “...consider. ...Helping me. With a problem.”



“Of course.” Valjean had practically leapt at Javert’s words, having to temper his eagerness in helping Javert in any way. Javert could all but hear the gears in the man’s head spinning, thinking how to treat this sudden request for assistance. “If it is within my power.”



Javert cleared his throat. “I’m sure you’ve noticed that I… have not been paying rent while I have been staying with you.”



Valjean hadn’t noticed. He had had the luxury in that he did not have to pay much mind to such things, and had taken it very much for granted that Javert was lodged in Cosette’s old room. Javert had stayed the night while they had been exchanging stories of their past, and had never quite left. It had suited Valjean just fine, so he had never questioned it when Valjean had quit the Rue de l'Homme-Armé property for the Rue Plumet residence and Javert had followed. “I did not expect you to pay rent,” Valjean said, truthfully.



“I had a feeling you might not,” Javert admitted, “But it is not because I wish to take advantage of your hospitality. You may also have noticed that while I have stayed here, I have not been to the Préfecture de police.”



This, Valjean had noticed, but he had assumed that Javert had been taking a break. He had entertained the idea that Javert was uncomfortable with his past, or that he had been taking time to realign his sense of justice and morality, but he did not wish to put words in Javert’s mouth.



Javert set his hands on the table, having discovered, to his absolute disgust, that he was developing a nervous tick around Valjean. Javert eyed his fingers, willing them not to drum their paranoia for the world to see. “...I cannot enter the police station.”



Valjean frowned. “You’re afraid of confronting your fellows?”



Javert licked his lips, a slight, self-conscious laugh quick on its heels. “My reason is not nearly as psychological as that. I cannot enter the police station because I set up preventative measures, years ago, by making the station impenetrable by vampires. I literally cannot step foot in it.”



Valjean sat, bemused, before breaking into a grin. Of course Javert had managed to find a way to trap himself from entering the one building in Paris he probably thought of as home. He allowed himself a perhaps rather unchristian beat to let himself tease Javert before setting it aside and facing the problem. “I’m not sure what I can do to help you with that.”



“Valjean,” Javert said, “I’m 

bored

.” 



“Excuse me?”



Javert clenched his fingers into fists. “I’m bored! I’m bored of your books, of staying in this house, and there is really only so much gardening two men can do in one garden, however many of the homeless you feed with the crops you cultivate.” Javert took a breath. “I’m bored.” 



Valjean gaped, rather openly. Javert was… acting like a child. Or, well, he reasoned, Javert did have a point. An eternity to live in, a couple dozen books to keep them occupied. “Well—” Valjean looked back down at his desk, his study of the sewers longing to be finished. Even as he considered asking Javert to help, he had the mental image of the man shoving the pile of papers into the fire, just out of spite. 



Valjean put his arm over the papers, protecting them. “I assume you’re not asking to be part of my sewer project.” Javert narrowed his eyes. “I was only asking,” Valjean said, defensive. He bound the pages together in a paper folder and placed them in his desk, away from prying pyromaniacs. “Do you have… other hobbies you would like to pursue? I can acquire whatever you would like.”



Javert seemed to find the thought of him having hobbies just as ludicrous as Valjean. Then, eyeing the desk containing the sewers, he wiped his face clear. “Let us investigate Fantine’s child. If it ends in failure, so be it, but...” Recalling Valjean’s words about cleaning the sewers, Javert smiled. “We have plenty of time.” 



-



Javert and Cosette had not spent very much time together. While one was out, the other visited, when that one visited, the other stayed clear. Javert would not say he was avoiding the young lady… only, being able to sense her, hundreds of meters from the house, gave him more than enough time to… reroute. To take the longer path. If he just so happened to return to the house mere minutes after her departure.... well.



Javert and Valjean were beginning their evening routine when they both looked up. Coming their direction was Cosette, accompanied by Marius. Briefly, Javert considered fabricating chores he had forgotten, only to quash such hasty excuses, even he knowing how pitiful they sounded. Javert’s interest was, however, piqued by something unusual: Marius appeared to be being dragged their way, much unlike the leaps and bounds the boy usually favoured.



“I have found that my husband was keeping secrets from me,” Cosette said, not one foot through the door, Marius exuding apologies as he trailed behind her.



Javert glanced at Valjean. Which secret had been revealed, he wondered as Cosette seated herself in Valjean’s parlour. Valjean was a turning a startling shade of grey, and looked very much as if he were about to leap from a nearby window. Always one for precaution, Javert went to stand by said window, leaning against the panes with this arms crossed, barring the man’s escape. Javert, too, believed in the truth being accessible to all. 



“You have always treated me as an uncommonly blind little girl,” Cosette begun. “It was never difficult to imagine how you received your scars.” She tapped the edges of Valjean’s wrists, the man nearly recoiling at her touch as if he could hide them from her, even now. “On the run from the Inspector, with a new alias every time we moved… I too have read novels, Papa.” Javert felt his lips twitch, amused by this girl, a complete different character to the demure, vulnerable lady Valjean often painted her as. 



“If you think I have loved you 

despite 

these,” Cosette continued, “You would be wrong.” Valjean looked about ready to faint, but Cosette forged on, regardless. “I have loved you, often, 

because

 of them.”



This, neither father, husband nor Javert had expected. “Dearest girl—” 



Cosette shushed. Valjean’s mouth closed. 



“To have suffered, to have been through hell…” Cosette swallowed. “It would not have been shocking for you to have become a hardened man. Cold to the harsh world that had hurt you. Yet, despite this all, despite the pain, you have always treated me kindly, and with more patience than I often deserved. At many points, I admit, I was critical of your history, curiosity causing suspicion, my imagination naming far worse crimes than that which you have actually committed, but in such times, it was your scars that reminded me to be thankful. Thankful that you were strong enough to have loved me.”



Javert’s attention flicked back to Valjean to find the man weeping. Understandable, he thought, and expected too. Javert had not believed for a second that the girl would treat Valjean anything but positively after the truth was revealed. He did not move from his perch, content to watch as father buckled under daughter’s words. It was satisfying to watch the man have a taste of his own darned medicine.



“And now, to address the reason I am angry.” Once again, the three men shared a similar sense of surprise. 

There’s more? 

Javert thought, briefly. “Marius,” she said, “Is not human.”



Javert watched Valjean watch Marius, not quite dislike on the old man’s face, but something startlingly similar. He turned to Cosette, the girl watching the pair interact too. Her eyes squinted. “You knew,” she accused, eyes widening again with the revelation.



Valjean, taken aback and visibly flustered, turned to Javert for help. Javert, for his part, held his hands up. He wanted no role in this. “Well—”



“And you married me to him, without so much as a warning?”



“But—” Valjean said, “You were in love.”



“I 

am

 in love,” Cosette said, defensive, her hand flying to Marius’. “And nothing will change this. But you could not have given me some sort of advice before the wedding?”



“Advice?” Valjean echoed, evidently lost. “What advice would I have had to give? My dear, you are living a life quite unlike my own. I have never—” Valjean bit himself off, quite suddenly. “...I had not known love until I met you.” 



Cosette shook her head in the universal sign, Javert thought, of a young girl’s disbelief at her father’s dimwittedness. “I would not have expected love advice from you, Papa! Love is the realm of the heart. I learnt enough of love in the convent.” Cosette’s mouth thinned. “What I wish is that you had given me advice on what it is to be a vampire.”



Javert felt Valjean’s heart skip in time with his own; could tell that both of them were assessing the girl. Badum. Badum. Badum. Still human. Valjean deflated. Javert felt himself relax, though why he did so, he could not have said. 



Cosette frowned at the pair, their matching expressions evidently suspicious for her. She was biting her lip while she thought. Then, a revelation. She seemed more incensed than before as she turned to her father. “You thought you had been hiding it from me!” Cosette said, completely taken aback. Javert could not prevent a laugh, growing wildly fond of this girl.



“Kept what?” Valjean asked, sheepish.



“You think I did not know that you are a vampire too?” At Valjean’s look of blank panic, Cosette’s anger grew further. “You must think me uncommonly stupid!”



“No,” Valjean was quick to say, “I was simply protecting you—” 



Javert was reasonably surprised that the girl did not physically attack her father. 



“My father, the man who showed inhuman bouts of strength. My father who aged not a single day in all the years I have known him. My father, who fed on my uncle to keep healthy. My father…” Cosette trailed off, following Valjean’s worried glance at Javert.



Javert’s beginnings of a smile had disappeared. “‘Fed’?”



Valjean nodded. When the man did not elaborate further, hurt flared in Javert. When it became evident that Valjean was walling himself up, Javert turned to address the man’s daughter.



Cosette gulped. Javert suspected his face at this moment looked rather more like the fearful inspector than it had for a good few months. Cosette averted her own gaze to her father. Even now, even when accusing the man of silence, Cosette would keep her own. Loyalty.



Javert knew Valjean’s family history. Knew there was no uncle likely to have appeared to donate blood. Thus, the pair must have been sought out by a relation of Fantine. An uncle, Javert thought, angry at his past self. Of course, they must have hid with kindly relatives. His eyes flicked between the pair, attempting to decipher any of their wordless conversation.



‘

If I had known, I would not have mentioned it

,’ Cosette seemed to say through a concoction of guilt and plea. 



‘

It is no matter

’ Valjean replied, his trademark forgiveness marred only by the slightest tinge of remorse.



As one, the pair turned back to Javert. Though Cosette had dominated the conversation, she now dipped her gaze once she had met Javert’s eye. It was Valjean who Javert concentrated on. ‘

Let us discuss this later

’, the man’s look said.



Javert nodded, sharply. He did not feel up to the task of navigating their past in front of this girl and her doltish husband. 



“I should not have said anything,” Cosette said into the tense silence, moments later. Though she did not look at Javert, he could sense she was referring to his presence. “I was under the impression that the inspector… knew.” 



Again, silence. Javert considered what the girl was insinuating. That Javert had been part of the conspiracy from the beginning? That she thought Valjean might have spilled everything in their time cohabiting? What, he wondered, and not for the first time, did their cohabitation look like to the girl?



“I thought he had killed you.” Javert, Valjean and Cosette turned, as one, to the until-then silent Marius, his head raised defiantly. “You,” he said, eyes trained on Valjean like a gun, “You let me believe you had killed the Inspector.”



Of 

course 

he did. Javert looked to the Heavens, floored by Valjean’s continuing foolishness.



This time, Valjean’s silent plea was sent towards Marius. But, the boy being who he was, could not interpret the man, and only cocked his head, his accusatory glance growing. Eventually, Valjean gulped. “I thought— Monsieur Baron, I thought you and I were to die at the barricade. I did not think I would need to explain the Inspector’s health to you.”



Javert felt a shudder run through him. The very shadow of possibility, that Valjean could have died there, now terrified Javert. 



“So the Inspector knew you, the entire time?” Marius appeared to be following the conspiracy line of thinking. Considering the number of coincidences that held the four of them together, this was not as ridiculous as it might have been.



“I knew him, yes,” Javert said, finally offering Valjean a line of assistance. “Though I was far from his right hand, as you are positing.”



Marius stared at Javert, unblinking, expression neutral. The boy did not, could not scare Javert, but yet he found the moment uncanny. Javert was being judged for the first time since his second birth. Valjean, Cosette, they were quick to forgive, to excuse, to love. The Baron would be Javert’s first jury.



But, even now, Javert’s punishment was held from him. Again, it was Valjean who was to take the blow. 



“You let him live, monsieur,” Marius said, standing to meet Valjean’s eye, head cocked in that way which said he knew his next words would devastate, “But you would let my friends die to do so?”


 

CW: iffy consent / lucidity while bloodtaking


The man’s name was Jacques, and Grantaire had known him since he was a pup. The two others were Pascal and Alexandre, a couple of years younger than Grantaire. Between them was Bahorel, bloody, beaten.



Grantaire gulped. 



...Three dead family members, one live human. Bahorel had killed his former packmates.



“R...” Bahorel’s ridiculous, swaggering persona was dead. Its replacement smelt of desperation and fear. 



-



The two dead boys were dripping cool blood down Grantaire’s back. Some of it was drying, smelting his shirt to his skin. They smelt like sweat, and the onset of rot. 



The pair stopped in the alleyway behind the pub so that Grantaire could empty his stomach. This, it turned out, became a recurring theme as the hours passed, until Grantaire had been retching an empty stomach for at least four or five stops.



His family were going to kill him. They were going to kill Grantaire. He smelt of dead family. He was helping to dispose of dead family. No, they weren’t his family anymore, he had a new family, he had… his family were going to kill him. Where was Musichetta? Where was Éponine? Where was Enjolras? ...His family were going to kill him…



-



Montparnasse had not been gone five minutes before he sauntered back in, all cock and plumage. He was smoking like a boy intending to impress his elders. “Word has it your boy was seen killing 3 men not a couple hours ago. Dragged ‘em halfway ‘cross Paris before my boys lost interest.” 



The information was so much, in so little time, that Feuilly could not comprehend Montparnasse’s words. As such, he fixated on the last statement. “‘Lost interest’?”



“The novelty of seeing one of your lot doing something as ‘terrible’ as murder wore off pretty quick once they clocked he was just another villain. Got plenty of shady characters hauling bodies down side-alleys to last lifetimes, my lot.” Montparnasse spread himself on Jehan’s bed, completely at home and, by his shut eyes, ready for a nap. 



Bahorel— murder— Feuilly felt faint.



-



“Grantaire. ...Grantaire.” When Grantaire came back to consciousness, he was curled into himself, Bahorel above him. “I’m going to take you home. You’ve done enough.”



Grantaire shook his head, desperate but nauseous.  “I cannot leave you alone.”



Bahorel laughed, a lot of misplaced confidence in it. “I can take care of myself.”



“Hence why you came to me, 

me

, of all people, for help.” Grantaire wiped his face with his hand, feeling the sweat, tasting blood. His brother’s’ blood. No, Bahorel was his brother, now, not the old pack. Grantaire could feel something tugging at him, from within, like something was trying to escape— 



Bahorel rolled him over, to take a look at his face. Bahorel looked increasingly worried, which did not bode well, he thought vacantly. Then, he wondered at the time. It was magnificently bright in the alleyway, with little but the moon to light their way...



“Grantaire?” Bahorel asked, when Grantaire’s heart ceased beating. Then, Grantaire sat up, pushing Bahorel away, still facing the moon. The full moon. He closed his eyes. He was an idiot. God, he was an idiot—



“Oh,” Bahorel said, looking up himself. “That’s— that’s full, isn’t it. Oh, God.” Grantaire felt Bahorel’s hand clamp around his arm, dragging him up. “R, I don’t wish to seem like I’m defiling your trust in me, but we need help. 

I need help.

”



Help. 

Help

. Help could only mean… “No, Bahorel, no, not him, please…”



“He’ll know what to do. He can help us.”



“No, Bahorel, he will not, he will not want to see me, he will— would rather—”



Bahorel reasoned that, being the night of the full moon, the cohorts of those he had killed would not be on the prowl that night. He was placing a lot of hope in this reasoning. He did not have the senses of the creatures of the Musain, but he knew one sniff of the corpses would bely enough information about who had carried them to the alley to be incriminatory, several times over. But, if he were to focus on the bodies, and ignore Grantaire…



Bahorel needed help. Grantaire did not want to be helped.  Bahorel removed a cudgel from his belt, the one Inspector Javert had recommended they carry during an emergency. He hit Grantaire, hard, on the head.



-



They were holding an emergency meeting. Enjolras, Combeferre, Courfeyrac, Feuilly and, when they had located them, Joly and Bossuet. Jehan had joined Montparnasse in gathering further reconnaissance, would act as Montparnasses’s messanger, should any more information be located. 



“--murder,” Enjolras had just echoed. “They are sure?”



“We have found a boy that watched the fight,” Feuilly confirmed. “But, it gets… worse.”



Enjolras bit his thumb, motioning for Feuilly to continue. “He attacked, or was attacked by, we are not sure just yet, three werewolves. They were identified as three from Musichetta’s old pack.”



‘Worse’ was quite the understatement. Their bond with the werewolves was thin, thinner than ever after Enjolras’ outburst at Grantaire. They did not need a human from their group engaged in warfare. 



What to do? It was difficult not to just 

label 

the man outright. There were only three humans among them. Joly was attached to Bossuet’s hip, Feuilly was here. Bahorel had killed three werewolves, had been missing for more than a week. 



Joly could be double crossing them. Feuilly could be eavesdropping. Bahorel might have been in the wrong place at the wrong time. Enjolras closed his eyes, the room overpowering him, every sense battling to tell him something new about the people around him. He just needed to think. Think, think, think…



The door slammed open with a bang. Half the room were on their feet within moments. The assailant, leg still raised from his kick, collapsed forwards caught themself at the last moment, then made the arduous journey inside. 



Enjolras was sure he was not the only one gaping. He could feel the very air shift as the room watched in silence: Grantaire lowered onto a table, wine bottles shoved to the floor by the action, Grantaire not moving, barely breathing, still alive.



“He’s fucking heavy,” Bahorel grunted as he stood, rolling his shoulders. When Bahorel looked up, he evidently panicked, feeling the weight of the assumptions surrounding him. “He’s alive. Shit, yeah, you know that. He— he was turning, and I didn’t know what to do, so I— Hit him.”



Joly was the first to move, stumbling towards the table to check the damage, fingers parting Grantaire’s hair to get a better view of the injury. “With what?” Joly asked, fingers coming away sticky with blood. Bahorel’s already serious expression darkened as he saw the blood. His hand came immediately to his coat— slowing when he noticed the sudden raise of hackles. Slowly, carefully, he parted his coat to reveal his cudgel. He removed it and put it on the desk.



Enjolras felt that sinking feeling again, the one he had felt at Grantaire’s suggestion of Feuilly being a spy. “Bossuet, Courfeyrac.” The two men did not need to be told what to do. Bahorel, too, understood Enjolras’ wordless instructions, holding his hands in surrender to show he was not reaching for a weapon. 



As Combeferre went to help Joly assess Grantaire’s wounds, starting to dress the man’s blow, Bossuet and Courfeyrac frisked Bahorel, putting their found items on a table next to the one that held Grantaire. Though Enjolras was stood next to this table, his focus was on the unconscious man adjacent to them. 



Grantaire smelled. Smelled of alcohol. Tobacco. Blood, body odour, grime, matted fur, like the men who lived on the streets, never washing; like those stray dogs that so often accompanied them. The smell was enough to make Enjolras want to cover his nose, to stop breathing, to leave the room. Enjolras did not make this displeasure known. He breathed, deeply, taking in the smell, making himself nauseous with it, punishing himself with it… This smell, this man, this injury, this was Enjolras’ fault. 



The grip of the smell was enough that Enjolras did not notice Courfeyrac until his hand was on Enjolras’ arm. Enjolras blinked, as if that would clear the fog clouding his brain, before refocusing on the items on the table. Cudgel, police issue. Easy enough to find on the streets. Some money, more than most carried, but less than a week’s cash-in-hand wage. Keys, to Bahorel’s lodging presumably, scraps of paper, nothing of interest on any of them, and a knife. Enjolras picked it up. It was light, fairly unobtrusive. It would not do much damage to either his species or Grantaire’s. A weapon against humans. 



The items concluded that Bahorel was not the spy, but a gang member. Enjolras found himself uncaring. He nodded. “Get Bahorel clean, feed him, talk to him.” Courfeyrac nodded.



“Feuilly?” Courfeyrac asked, under his breath.



Enjolras glanced at the man in question, who was holding the cudgel in his hand, assessing it for something. Enjolras’ eyes flicked to Grantaire. “Keep him busy.” Enjolras knew too well what it was to suspect a person one cared for. Suspicions were heightened purely because one was telling oneself not to be lenient. 



“Bahorel, with me,” Courfeyrac said, directing Bahorel to the back of the room. “Bossuet too. Feuilly, assist Combeferre and Joly with Grantaire. The doctors will need a runner.”



Feuilly looked up, about to object, but then seemed to catch sight of Bahorel, and, slowly, looked back down. Feuilly nodded his understanding.



Bahorel, flanked either side by Bossuet and Courfeyrac, disappeared into the back room, and Enjoras felt the rest of the room calm. He looked about the patrons, those not part of their meeting but involved, and fixed his posture. There was silence as Enjolras walked to the center of them. 



“News of this will surely spread. We need now, more than ever, to continue our rally. Unity. We will solve what occurred tonight, but this was by no means an act of war. I expect all of you to help in defusing the situation. Spread our apologies for those dead. We did not know them, but they were good men. Their losses are felt by us all. Anything we can do to help, we will.” 



Enjolras swallowed. There were utterances of displeasure, and not all of them passive distaste. He kept his posture rigid, meeting the eyes of those making the loudest complaints. “Tonight we help wolves in need. All of you, you here, your friends, anyone not present, gather them, now, and go out to the streets. Find wolves in need. Feed them, keep the humans safe. 

We work together

.”



A low growl. Enjolras felt the hairs on the back of his neck stick on end. A shiver, running through him like electricity. 

Look

, the animal inside him insisted, while his brain pleaded him to flee. 

Look, run, look— 




The growl morphed into a scream, which had Enjolras scrambling to Grantaire’s side, even as those other vampires around him pushed themselves back. Bossuet burst from the back room, probably having been posted guarding the door, by Grantaire’s side in half a second, pinning down one of the man’s waving arms. Enjolras took the other with one of his own, his right hand pushing down on Grantaire’s chest until he could almost feel the ribs beneath his fingers bend… bend… 

crack, 

he thought.

 Crack them. 




Enjolras was pulled back, a violent hand grabbing the neck of his waistcoat and shoving him out of the way. Combeferre, livid, did not meet his eye, pointing Enjolras towards the back. 



Enjolras breathed, hard, feeling his lungs fill almost to explosion, then let it all out in a harsh choke. 

Crack. Crack. Crack. Crack. 

Enjolras looked up, finding Joly, human, terrified, 

thud, thud, thud thud thud— 




“Enjolras,” Combferre said, voice icy, the very hush of his voice a sure sign of his anger. “Don’t go near him,” he heard Combeferre warn Joly as Enjolras passed into the back room. 



-



Courfeyrac was watching the door as Enjolras passed through, eyes level and expressionless. Perhaps it was the millennia they had spent together, but Courfeyrac always managed to echo his partner’s emotions, even with walls between them. 



Bahorel was sat opposite, back to the door, hands lashed to the chair with his cravat.



“His suggestion,” Courfeyrac said, noticing Enjolras’ displeasure. “Just while Bossuet is distracted.”



“To put everyone at ease,” Bahorel said, evidently attempting to sound like he felt any of that calm. “Is he…?” 



Enjolras shrugged, hand coming to cover his mouth. He was shaking, he realised. He was… 



“When was the last time you ate, E?”



Enjolras bit his lip. 

When? When…? He hadn’t wanted to smell of blood around Grantaire— the wolves in the leadup… Then, they had gone missing, and… 




“Um,” Bahorel said, his head twisting so he could hold Enjolras in his widening eyes, “Courf, could I, I mean, can you uncuff me? I’m just...” Bahorel went quiet when Enjolras sat, fell, really, in a chair outside of Bahorel’s sight. “

Courfeyrac

.”



Courfeyrac leaned forwards and gave the binding a tight pull, the cravat coming away easily in his hand. He gave it back to Bahorel, who got to work tying it, with admittedly shaky fingers, back around his collar.



Once he had done this, Bahorel turned his chair around so that he could face Enjolras, wary, but calmer now, more like himself. His heartbeat remained steady, if slightly elevated, blood shushing through his veins. 



“He’s looking at me like I’m meat,” Bahorel whispered, smile becoming more forced. 



“He’s listening to your blood.”



Bahorel gulped. “Right.” He licked his lips. “Can you make him stop?” 



“You were in a fight, Bahorel. You smell like food.”



“Food. Right.”



“He’s hungry. I’ll have to get someone to visit the bank.” 



This was the final blow to Bahorel’s smile. His leg, previously jittering, stilled. “Right.” 



Bahorel undid his cuffs, rolled up his sleeves, and offered his arm to Courfeyrac. 



“Bahorel…”



“I’ve fucked up, Courfeyrac. I’m not saying this is payment for that, I’m not sure anyone will accept that, ‘specially me, but we don’t need him like that, now.”



From the front, a muffled scream, the last notes turning into a flickering howl. Enjolras, slouched in his seat, perked up, ears turned to the noise like a dog after a rat. 



“I for one, am not going to sit in the same bar as him while you go search for a willing prostitute. Not when he looks like a damned vulture.”



The pair watched as Enjolras stood, focus intent on the sounds from the next room. His hair, usually so neat, his clothing, usually so unruffled, his expression, usually so considering… 



“Okay. Enjolras,” Courfeyrac beckoned, taking a small, concealed blade from an inside pocket. He took Bahorel’s proffered arm, weighing it as if a slab of meat to be cut into portions. 



“This won’t hurt.”



Bahorel scoffed, bracing himself as the knife broke skin. It was strange, Bahorel thought as Enjolras kneeled between his legs. Having a man you knew as a companion, a colleague, kneel like this. Bahorel was no stranger to the position, but to have unfamiliar, unwanted lips on his arm… 



Enjolras was lucid after barely half a minute, falling back, away from Bahorel as soon as was possible. Bahorel, evading Enjolras’ eye, watched as the excess saliva coated the wound, the skin stitching together first pink, then darkening until it was as dark as the rest of him. 



“Well,” Courfeyrac said, “Let us all be thankful that we caught that sooner, rather than later. Enjolras,” he said, as if a parent to his child, “What do you say?” 



Enjolras, still on the floor, hand to his mouth, was silent for a long moment. Then, his eyes flicked to Bahorel. “Thank you.”



“Jesus,” Bahorel said, feeling sick. “‘’Thank you’? God, this is… this is messed up, C.”



A knock on the door. “Yeah,” Courfeyrac said, presumably answering both Bahorel and those that now filed in.



Joly, Feuilly trailing him. Feuilly’s eyes, tracking the floor, caught Enjolras, splayed on the floor, blood on his lips. Rose, confused, to Bahorel, cradling his now-healed arm. The two and two were not hard to add. His anger was palpable. 



“You were supposed to be interrogating him, not bleeding him!”



“I offered.”



Feuilly’s disgust, aimed at Enjolras, transferred in full force to Bahorel. Wordless, lip-curled disgust. Bahorel retracted into himself, as if a snail attempting to fit back into its shell. Head dipped, shoulders bent, eyes down.



Joly, watching this and looking near to tears, took a deep breath. “We have to move Grantaire. Combeferre administered a sleeping draught, but it shan’t last much longer, with the state he’s in. Feuilly and I just came,” he said, putting his hand on Feuilly’s arm and pulling him back behind him, “To inform you of this.”



Courfeyrac nodded, flicking his fingers in a ‘go’ motion. 



Joly nodded, half bow, as if excusing himself from the presence of a king, then pulled at the sleeve of Feuilly’s arm.



“Where?” Joly, Feuilly, Courfeyrac and Bahorel turned to the wretched creature on the floor. “Where are you taking him?”



Joly deferred to Courfeyrac with a quick, wordless plea. “You’re staying here, Enjolras. We need you here.”



Enjolras shook his head, standing. “No, I have to be there. I have to go with him.”



“I don’t think…” Joly started, before once again indicating that Courfeyrac should continue.



“That’s not happening, Enjolras. The last thing we need is the two of you at one another’s throats.”



“No, I—” Enjolras shuddered, then stood, turning to Feuilly, supplicating him, hands on the man’s shoulders. Feuilly flinched, but met the man’s eyes with cold, visible fear. “Feuilly. Please. I cannot stand to be away from him. I will not do so again.”



“He is delirious,” Joly said from Feuilly’s left. “Displaying unnatural behaviour.”



“Please, Feuilly. You understand. 

Please.

”


 

CW: self-harm, suicide idealisation, disassociation


Cosette, dressed in a fine autumn dress, entered the Préfecture de police and requested to be shown to Javert’s desk.



“Madame,” the young man said, at once apologetic, and in awe of her beauty, “The Inspector… he cannot be sought in this realm any longer. He is with God, now.”



“Perhaps you misheard, monsieur,” Cosette smiled, putting on her best head-of-a-nunnery-berating-naughty-schoolgirls smile, “I asked for his desk, not the man himself.”



“Oh,” the man said, flushing red. “Of course, but… without the man, we have not kept his desk.”



“And so his belongings? His files?”



By this point, her prettiness had caused rumour to spread, and she was aware she was causing a crowd of young policemen to form, with little to do but to mill about the reception, looking busy. 



“His belongings?” The receptionist seemed at a loss. “What business have you with his belongings?”



Cosette smiled, thankful that he had asked. “I am Inspector Javert’s daughter.” Cosette enjoyed the looks of complete astonishment on the faces of the young men; it mirrored the expression on the good Inspector’s just the week before, when she had offered him the plan. “I have come to collect his belongings.”



“His daughter?” the crowd echoed, a ripple of disbelief surrounding her. “But to be so blonde,” one said to another, “while the father was so dark…” 



Hearing this, Cosette knew she had very little time left to convince the men. She withdrew a small, metal box from her purse. It was immediately recognisable to most of the men on the force— Javert’s eminent snuff box. Small, inexpensive and without feature (this being somewhat rare and thus a feature in itself,) it suited the man very much. Cosette popped the box’s lid, and turned it to the receptionist.



His gasp was oddly satisfying. Inside, Cosette had had a miniaturist painter install a portrait of her. Nothing expensive, a sketch at most, but definitely Cosette’s likeness. The receptionist turned to his cohorts and nodded. “I apologise for my interrogation, madame, I did not realise— the Inspector did not talk of you!”



“To protect my safety,” Cosette said, gravely. “My father made it very clear that I was to maintain a life away from him, lest he be threatened by his more… unsavoury enemies.” This final fabrication sold the lie to the room, and suddenly the recently deceased Inspector’s image as a shadowy, unfeeling man shattered, replaced with that of a doting father, maintaining a rouse to protect his beautiful daughter. If the man had, in fact, been dead, Cosette sensed he really would have rolled in his grave.



Cosette was shown the way to Javert’s belongings, several men volunteering to help her sift through his documents. With Javert’s instructions in mind, Cosette sorted cases to be given to several other policemen, and those to be filed away as cold. Then, the few that Javert still wished to investigate himself, she sorted into a separate pile. These, she spirited away by creating a distraction— she, being the fragile female that she was, was feeling famished. She sent the separate volunteers to get her refreshments and a fan, while she slotted the folders neatly into a fold of her clothing.



Javert did not have very many items one would call ‘belongings’, but those he did included a pen and a stack of old pocket-books and ledgers. Most of these, he kept at home, but for the few that might include pertinent information to a current case. Not wanting his collection to be missing any editions, Javert had humbly requested their retrieval. 



These, she had wrapped in paper, tied with a string and brought out to her carriage. This, she thought, was thrilling. It was little wonder criminals committed crime. She tucked that thought at the back of her mind. It wouldn’t do to seem so excited by the afternoon’s activities when she returned to Javert.



“Our condolences,” the group of young policemen crowed in unison as Cosette was helped into the carriage. “Take care, please visit again!”



-



Her father met her carriage outside the Gillenormand house, in case she had been tailed by a suspicious agent. Luckily, Javert said, the men he worked with were all complete imbeciles, and were undoubtedly already swapping tales as to how they would propose to Cosette the next time they saw her. 



“Were you touched by any of the fools?” 



“No, they were very good, none of the men so much as brushed against me.” Javert and Cosette swapped smiles at father and husband’s synchronised breath of relief. 



“You certainly dodged a bullet there,” Javert continued, “A young lady’s touch is like gold to those men.” 



Cosette laughed, handing Javert her prized quarry. “Well,” Javert said, holding the parcel like a fragile, much loved, present, “You are certainly your father’s daughter.”



“Which father?” Cosette asked, still smarting from the pain that came from realising her Papa had been keeping such serious secrets from her. Cosette met her Papa’s eye. “I am a lucky girl, and seem to have come into two new fathers recently. Dearest Marius’ grandfather insists I call him father too.”



While the look on Valjean’s face would have been priceless to the Javert of a year ago, it did not elicit the same joy to the contemporary Javert. While he enjoyed playing these tricks on the old man, winding him up about his devotion to his daughter, Javert knew, perhaps more than Cosette, how much the words would truly hurt the man. 



“Fathers in name only, perhaps. Your Papa loves you far more than any of the rest of us.” And then, anticipating the boy’s denial, continued with a nod at Marius and a: “Other than that one, perhaps.” 



Cosette, realising Javert’s intentions, turned to her Papa. 



“While I am not best pleased with you, Papa, for keeping these secrets… I still love you, and hope that now, you might trust me with your past.”



“You did not have to commit a crime to tell me this.”



“Did I not?” Cosette asked, and Javert finally realised the girl’s true intentions, beyond simply being a charitable soul. “Now, I am one with you. All of you. Assisting criminals, lying to the police… I am no better than the Inspector, here.” 



Having that said, out loud, was painful indeed. Javert looked away. 



“If your intentions were to set your father at ease,” Javert said with a raised eyebrow, “I think you are sorely mistaken in your methodology.” 



“He has dealt me worse wounds. I am sure he can cope.”



-



Something as simple as a pen. 



Javert held his bundle of papers in his lap, and considered what idiocy had caused him to forget mentioning bringing his pen to Cosette. He could hardly ask the girl to return to the station for a single, almost unusable old pen. In fact, Javert was sure that to even mention it would be to seem as if he were asking her to buy one for him.



Javert had gone to death without more than pocket change upon him, and now, risen, those measly coins had dwindled to nothing. With no occupation, no home to call his own, no property to sell, Javert was trapped under the weight of Valjean’s hospitality.



The man seemed to have enough wealth, but with no need to eat, or to heat the house but for when Cosette visited, Javert made for a relatively cheap houseguest. Yet to ask for something, to ask for a gift, that was too much. 



A pen. He looked down at his bundle of papers. Javert itched to start working, to work through the remnants of his open cases, and to start on the case of the— of Fantine’s missing daughter, but for a pen. 



His eyes lifted to Valjean’s writing desk, essay on the sewers presumably safely stored away from Javert’s meddling. There would likely be a pen, maybe multiple in those drawers, ink a plenty. For a man like Valjean, ink would not be an expense he would have to save away for; no, it would be part of the groceries, of the daily expenses. Valjean would not mind if Javert used the ink. Used a pen.



And yet, Javert did not move from his armchair… from the armchair he had taken favour to. What a strange position to be in, to have unofficially claimed an armchair in Valjean’s house because he had taken a liking to its comfort, but to feel like a thief rooting through Valjean’s desk.



Valjean was out in the garden, tending to the weeds as was his custom at this time in the afternoon. The sun, low in the sky now, provided the remnants of hazy warmth, but enough shadow not to cause sweaty work. Javert knew he had at least an hour, if not two, of privacy.



But, to be walked in on, while going through Valjean’s belongings… even the thought was sickening. First, he thought of what he might find, locked away in those depths. Then, he reprimanded himself, asking not what he might find, but how Valjean would feel at the insinuation, as if there 

was 

something to hide in the drawers that could prevent Javert from looking.



Torn, Javert stood in an abrupt motion, hoping that doing so would inspire courage within him. It did not, and only managed to disturb his sense of anxiety into an unsettling roil.



Surely Valjean would not keep his writing equipment with his documents? But oh, this was an old writing desk, with dozens of compartments to be pulled out, dozens of places to store knick knacks. It might not be a simple task to find a pen.



Javert took one step forward. When even this did not inspire further movement, he used the momentum to make himself walk around the armchair, circling it like a fool, papers stored under his arm. Vestless, and without cravat, his hair in a queue but hardly groomed, Javert must have looked a complete fool. He could feel the air in the room, light on the skin under the neck of his shirt.



A complete fool, lounging in Valjean’s living room, half dressed, distraught over the lack of a pen. From the back of his mind, a familiar call. His own voice, quiet, calling…




Drown it out. Drown out the shame. Drown yourself. 




Javert pulled out the first drawer of the desk, the thin, leftmost one. Ink, wax, stamps… no pens. 

Drown— 

The next, the middle drawer held blank sheets of paper. The third drawer, pens. Javert reached in and grabbed a handful of them, bringing them all out and spreading them on the table. Most were average, neither expensive nor cheap, except one or two on extreme ends, most likely bought as part of some disguise. Javert picked the one most familiar to his own, one on the cheaper end, and stashed the pens back into the drawer. 



But, of course, it could not be so easy. His opening of the drawer must have been too harsh, for now he could not close it. Something must have been uprooted and now stuck at the back. 



Javert let himself feel aggravated, before taking a moment to breathe. 

Drown, drown, drown… Yes

! He answered, 

Yes, I understand you! You would rather die than to find a pen! Let me breathe! 




Javert pulled the drawer out the rest of the way and set it on the desktop before crouching and inserting his hand into the empty space. Fingers exploring where eyes could not, Javert found the offending item and grabbed at it— only to pull his hand back, gasping at being burnt, as if having been stung by a bee. 



He looked at his hand, where a small patch of skin was turning red, the edges black, as if singed. Javert frowned. Then, taking the pen he had so recently chosen, he used it to fish the item out of the crevasse. 



Beads. Prayer beads. His prayer beads, the ones he had thought lost on the day of the insurrection. Dangling from them, the smallest crucifix. 

So they do affect us! 

It was, of course, good to know in the general sense, but also served to allow Javert a sense of satisfaction, that it was not his own ignorance that allowed Madeleine to have gone undetected.



Careful not to let it touch his skin again, Javert set the beads down, re-inserted the drawer and took the pen, beads and papers back to his chair. So, then, Valjean must have built up an immunity towards the cross. 



Once the thought had settled, Javert’s mind ceased its whispers about drowning. He took the beads and gripped them in his hand, the cross jutting into his palm. Javert gritted his teeth, but after a moment of hot pain, he quickly came to almost relish the sensation. When the skin in his palm had ceased its sensation, Javert moved the beads into his other palm, watching with keen interest as the burns from his left healed. Slower than usual, but definitely healing. 



Slowly, he experimented with different areas of skin, some more satisfying than others. 



“You should join me outside!”



Valjean’s call from the front room made Javert startle, pulling the cross from his skin with a guilty jolt. He watched the last of the wounds fade to a dull pink as Valjean entered the room, pulling off his gardening overalls, not at all suspicious of Javert’s frozen movements.



“I do not like the sun,” Javert said, “And I dislike gardening.”



“But the fresh air! One cannot tire of fresh air, Javert.”



“One can be plenty tired of fresh air.”



Valjean regarded him for a moment. “You’re in a foul mood. Would you like to talk about it?”



Javert considered keeping the discovery of the beads secret, but to harbour such a theft would weigh on Javert, would colour their every reaction. Javert was, frankly, too old for that. He held up the beads, careful now not to let the crucifix touch his skin.



“Oh.” Valjean reached out, waiting until Javert relinquished them before taking the beads in his own hand, cross be damned. Javert watched, morbidly curious, as the cross sat on Valjean’s skin, darkening the calloused palm almost imperceptibly. “I have to admit,” Valjean said, after a moment, “I was slightly taken aback by your still keeping it upon your person.”



Valjean clicked the beads against one another, watching how, even after the wear and tear of a policeman’s daily life for a decade, the jet still gleamed under the light. “At first I thought they must be newer, that you must have bought, or been given them, but…”



“You recognised your craft.”



Valjean smiled. “I recognise these, in particular. I had not seen a string of them so perfectly formed my entire career. I remember thinking to myself that these beads were perhaps the loveliest in creation. Borne, of course, by pure accident, but still something to behold.”



“But then you gave them to me.” Javert worked this through his mind. “Ah, you thought them some devil’s lure, wanted to be rid of their tempting gleam.”



Valjean’s eyes widened, lips turning up, bemused. “Why would you say that?”



“Because I was your hated enemy. Because I was the one person in the entirety of that blasted town that doubted you, that prevented you from living in freedom. You wished to test me, to see whether I would see them and covet them, or continue to be devout.” At this, Valjean at last laughed. Javert frowned, not liking not understanding what would prompt such a reaction from the man. “What?”



“You think your being in the town affected my behaviour so?”



Javert’s frown deepened. Then, thinking, 

did I place so much importance on my position in that town? 

Javert found himself once again questioning his reality; his swampy ability to place himself in the past, where he had once lived so solidly. So sure of his motivations, so sure of everyone else’s view of him. 



Nausea swept through him, dulling his senses like a rush of vertigo. Sounds were muffled, his tongue felt heavy in his mouth. How could he have imagined his presence to have affected Valjean so? Evidently the man had been successful, and unquestioned. What had one police officer done to throw the man off course? Very little, obviously, according to all sources, it had been Valjean’s own decision to reveal his identity. Javert had been, at best, a conduit for information, little more than a fly on the back of a great oxen. 




Don’t be so weak, 

he told himself. 

You’re fine. 




Distantly, he felt a jarring pain in his backside, the sensation of cloth on his cheek. 

You’re fine, 

he told himself again. 

You’re-




A cold hand to his forehead brought him back to the present, where Valjean was peering down at him. If there was a word stronger than worried, Javert thought, Valjean looked it. How exactly Javert had ended on the floor, he wasn’t entirely sure. His stomach felt heavy, like there was a great magnet embedded in the floor of Valjean’s house, dragging him down.



So, he had fainted like a lady confronted with a shock at a theatre. So, their kind could faint. So, Valjean must have caught him just too late to prevent them both from sliding to the floor, but quick enough to prevent Javert from smashing his head on it.



Javert blinked, brain not yet comprehending the fact that he, the great, fearsome inspector had 

fainted 

when confronted with psychological trauma. Javert squinted at Valjean, half-suspecting the man of causing this fainting fit. Technically he had, deftly sweeping Javert’s metaphorical legs from under him. Javert cleared his throat, not quite himself yet and attempting to find anything to distract Valjean. “You were saying?” 



Valjean stared down at him for a great moment, before, again, letting out a short burst of laughter. Valjean wiped a hand over his face, as if attempting to wipe off the fear. “You caught me a little off guard, there, Javert.”



“I shall try to warn you next time,” Javert said, wryly, prompting another laugh from Valjean.Feeling slightly more like himself again, Javert brought himself up, slowly, thankful that he felt no rush as he did so.



With Valjean hovering over him like a mother hen, Javert made sure to lock his insecurities back down under the hatches he had evidently formed without his own knowledge, attempting to shove huge weights over the doors to prevent such easy breaches.



“You were not my ‘hated enemy’, Javert.” Perceptive but as graceless as ever, Valjean intervened on Javert’s fortifications with a foot jammed in the door. Javert could practically hear the quotation marks. “I feared you. Greatly. But not because I hated you. I know you were doing your duty, that you were in the right, on some level.”



“On every level. You escaped parole. I was in the right.” 



Valjean, eyes betraying the war within himself, just sighed. Javert supposed that a man recently fainted did not make an ideal debate partner for Valjean. “May I ask you a question?”



“I assume I won’t like the question,” Javert guessed, to which Valjean gave a small shrug. “Then I reserve the right not to answer. Ask.”



“You took pride in being fearsome.” 



Javert nodded, assuming that this was not the question but a lead to it. 



“You seem… disappointed that I did not hate you.”



“Past tense,” Javert noted, feeling a little bit righted.



Valjean’s brows joined. “...You cannot be asking me if I hate you in the present.” At Javert’s silence, Valjean sat back from him. “You may dislike me, Javert, but the feeling is far from mutual. Your hatred of me is understandable—” 



“Hatred?” Javert mimicked Valjean in sitting further back, realising how ludicrous they looked, sat almost half on top of one another. The word had been ejected from Javert without thought, a pure expression of disbelief. Now that it was out, Javert took the time to analyse it. 




Hatred

. Javert had certainly felt a great deal of emotions for the man before him, but hatred? Hatred was tricky. 



He had been ambivalent about the faceless Jean in the crowd of wild prisoners, morbidly curious once the man had begun to misbehave. Challenged by the escapee, guilt-ridden over the man he had starved to death. Proud, almost, of the mountain that obeyed his whip. Then, a period where he had been empty of emotion, with his mind bent on smiting, without thought of a personal grudge. 



Monsieur Madeleine, suspicion. Again, not hatred, nothing so raw. There was a complicated mix of humiliation, bruised pride, a battle of duty. A fundamental non-understanding on Javert’s part of why, no matter how hard he tried, he could not get his ideals to align with the Mayor's.



Javert nodded at his next thought. Yes, hatred. Burning, bitter hatred. This was why Javert found the idea of hating Valjean in the present so impossible: because he had, for one moment, hated his own gullibility so much to have transferred a wash of that emotion onto Valjean, the cause of his inadequacy. While his self-loathing had peaked at the bridge, this hatred was not one directed at Valjean. Angry. Furious, even, that he could never capture the ghost. 



A criminal with a name. A game, a challenge.



After all, when Javert had read of the man’s apparent death, drowning after falling from a ship after he had been caught not long after M— sur M—, Javert had felt little more than the satisfying click of door firmly closed. 

That is that

, he had thought, which did not strike Javert as a thought about someone who he had 

hated. 

Hatred was messier. Hatred was looking to the stars, finding them hidden by clouds, and thinking, it would be easier to die than to look at this for a moment longer.



What a circular thought. Javert felt it bubble at him again, the faintest echo deep in his brain, whispering 

it would be easier to, it would be easy to just, no more, no more— 




“Javert.” 



Dragged from revelry, Javert could not but say “yes?” as if he had not drifted far from the conversation, as if it had been Valjean who had retreated in on himself for however many minutes.



“Perhaps I should let you alone,” Valjean said, rubbing his palms against his thighs, as if half dusting them off, half drying sweaty palms; neither action a necessary one.



Javert, not particularly wanting to risk another retreat into his mind, shook his head. “Perhaps not.” There was a certain amount of shame in admitting his uncertainties, so he left it to whatever Valjean was already positing. “Let us work.”



Valjean, evidently catching the unsaid words, nodded, slowly. “If you’re sure you’re feeling well enough.” He stood, even now mimicking the creakier movements of the age of man he was meant to be, before offering a hand to Javert. Thoughtless, but entirely thoughtful consideration for fellow man. An act that most probably held little to no significance to Valjean, but, for Javert, was like a bright, blinding light. 



How could anyone who had suffered as Javert knew Valjean had, offer a hand so casually,  to not even think about it, to just simply— Another round of circular thought was cut, abruptly, by Valjean taking Javert’s hand and pulling him up.



“I am certainly not a psychic, Javert, but by God, if it is not just a hand.” Valjean took Javert’s other hand so that he held both within his own, soothing the skin on both his and Javert’s hands. “See? Not so different, yours and mine.” He gave Javert’s hand a light pat before nodding. “Let us work.”



And Javert followed.



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



“You had better have a good reason to be here,” Javert growled, buttoning his greatcoat with quick, purposeful fingers.



“Yes, Sir, I…” Bahorel followed Javert through a corridor from the Inspector’s desk, watching as similarly dressed policemen buttoned their own coats. “What’s happening?”



“The moon,” Javert said, dismissal in his voice. “Is what is happening, lest you’ve forgotten.”



“No, definitely not, Sir.”



The Inspector stopped, just short of the door, pulling on his leather gloves. Worn, Bahorel saw, to be nearly threadbare. “Well, then? Out with it.”




Musichetta, Éponine, Gavroche, Grantaire. 

Four names well-known to the Inspector. Two Thenardiers, a drunk and a former prostitute… their circumstances meant that none had lived particularly invisible lives. There would be no problem releasing their names to Javert, outing them, as it were, as wolves. There would be no man-hunt, there would be no negative consequences. The four were criminals already, being a wolf would not help their cases. Bahorel took a deep breath. 



“The vampires. Their aim is to form a coalition with the werewolves. Four wolves run with the vampires, a pack.”



Javert paused in adjusting his gloves, just long enough to grant Bahorel a considering look. He then removed his pocketbook from an inside coat pocket. “Four?”




Musichetta, Éponine, Gavroche, Grantaire- 

Bahorel closed his mouth. The Inspector did not seem surprised by the coalition. Which meant he knew about the wolves? ...Which meant there was another spy. But the Inspector’s disbelief that there were four: the other spy was giving bad information?



“The missing one, Grantaire, and the missing devil; mid-way up the foodchain... What information do you have on them?”



“You knew Grantaire was missing?”



“‘Was’. They have recovered him.”



Bahorel blinked, feeling way out of his league. “Yes. ...No. Yes, but— It’s complicated.”



Javert sighed, looking as if he had just had the exact argument. “Is he found, or is he missing?”



“Found,” Bahorel confirmed, unsure.



“But?”



“But he’s— well— it’s the moon, Sir. They’ve had to lock him up.”



Javert raised an eyebrow, indicating his own attire. “That’s fortunate for them. The less there are out there, the better. You do not know where he is being kept?” 



Bahorel shook his head, but Javert just consulted his notes again, apparently unperturbed by this. “I did not know there were four wolves.” Javert wrote ‘four’ in a careful script, tapping his pencil against the page in thought. “Their names?”




Musichetta, Éponine, Gavroche, Grantaire. 




“I only know Grantaire. The others keep odd hours.” The muscles in Javert’s jaw clenched in visible displeasure. Bahorel felt his heart rush to think of any bone he might be able to throw at the Inspector to keep his trust. “You know about Grantaire’s affections?”



“Yes… his attachment.” Javert flicked back through his notes, angled so Bahorel could not read them. “To the bar wench,” he said, reading the words carefully.



Bahorel frowned, and prayed. There was no time for indecision. “No, Sir,” Bahorel said. “To the leader, Enjolras.”



A thin, cutting smile. Javert pocketed his book. “Good work, Bahorel.”



-



“I know, I know, it hurts.” Enjolras sat back against the door, shutting his eyes. Another peal of 

hurt 

screamed from the room behind him. Still human, Grantaire’s voice chords sounded rough, hoarse. “Shh,” Enjolras calmed, “Shh, Grantaire.”



-




Pacing. Pacing. Pacing. 

Enjolras drew his knees to his chest, resting his chin on the fabric of his trousers. 

Seventeen, pad, eighteen, pad, nineteen, pad, pause— 

Enjolras could imagine the dark, muscled wolf stood not a handspan away, behind the door that separated them, lips pulled back in a snarl, body rising and falling with its breath. 

Waiting. 

Waiting for Enjolras to move. Then, 

pad. One. Pad. Two. Pad, pad, pad, eighteen, nineteen, pause, breath, snarl, pace, one, two… 




Nineteen steps was all it took for the large creature, more bear-like than dog, to pace the empty room. A creature with eyes that shone like Grantaire’s, that were the same dark hazel as Grantaire’s. Nineteen steps, then a snarl. 



At least he had stopped screaming.



-




One, two. Three... four. One, two. Three… four. 

It was like counting steps for a ballet. Front and hind, front and hind. Enjolras recalled something about Grantaire having been a dancer in a previous life. Graceful, even under all the shit. 

One, two. Three… four. 

Something about the slight delay on four, the way the foot came down lighter than the others, made Enjolras take a slightly deeper breath. No blood. A sprain, maybe. 



Enjolras wished his ability to heal wounds stretched to the invisible. To the bones of others, to bruises, and sprains… A shuddering whine from behind the door. He wished he could heal that. Could heal the cause of that whine. He wished he understood how to help Grantaire.



“You were a dancer, Grantaire. I remember that.” Enjolras scarcely knew whether he was talking aloud anymore, nor whether the wolf, Grantaire, could hear him, much less understand him. “That beauty and the beast, the comedy opera. I wondered, when we were watching, whether you had performed it before. I wondered…” Enjolras laughed, self-deprecating, wondering what he was doing, talking to his knees. “I wondered who you would play. Whether you would be the beast. But he was tall, and brutish. The dancer was ungainly. Whether or not that was the intent behind the casting…” 




Sixteen, seventeen, limp, nineteen— 




“There was the old man, the father of the girl. Sometimes you remind me of an old man, Grantaire. Angry and snide, drowning your sorrows in a bottle of drink and a tavern of girls. Perhaps one day you’ll have four daughters, enough that you could send one abroad, let her marry a beast for money.”




Pause. Breath. ...Breath… 

The beast did not move. Was it… 

he

 listening after all? No, Joly and Combeferre assured him that Grantaire would not remember this night. Enjolras smiled. “To tell you the truth, Grantaire, I did not pay very much attention to the plot. I am still not sure what happened on stage.”



He had wanted to have Combeferre explain it to him, but had decided to wait until they had watched it together before asking it of the man. God knew how unlikely it was for Enjolras to follow through with their plans… he would not want to raise Combeferre’s hopes with feigned interest, only to dash them later. 



Enjolras, alone but in company, decided he could act as if he were alone. Truth be told, he was bone weary, wanted sleep more than anything, despite not necessarily needing it. So, he took his hair from behind his back, the long ponytail tied with a single ribbon, draping it over his shoulder. He brushed it with his fingers, slowly detangling the curls. Heaven forbid he was seen behaving like this, like a dandy, or, worse, like a girl, but he was tired. Tired of acting an emotionless masculine entity so as to not raise suspicion.



He was, frankly, sick of having to be strong. He wanted to dislike being responsible, but he felt that more than anything. Responsible. If he did not stand against injustice, who would? He just wished, sometimes, that justice would be nicer to him. Would let him take a break, just— just for a second. He hated to think it. He hated that that meant he was probably not worthy of the responsibility in the first place. But his brain hurt, and his heart hurt, and he wanted to not have to crave for something as depraved as blood, and he wanted— he wanted to be like Bossuet, free to fall in love. Like Feuilly, human in love with a human who so obviously loved back. He wanted to be selfish. Just once, for Grantaire’s sake, to take Grantaire’s side.



The breathing behind the door was slowing, and Enjolras heard the light thud as Grantaire brought himself to the floor, body against the door, hot enough that Enjolras could feel the body heat through the wood. The transformation and subsequent meal must have been exhausting, and the wolf was finally falling asleep.



Enjolras leant back, hair still between his fingers, and closed his eyes. Like this, he could imagine that the world had fallen away, that he was still a warm, human child, in a world that was not dangerous, and was full of love. 



“I spent the entire opera thinking about you, Grantaire.” He felt safe to open his heart in this safe world he had created. His breathing was deepening, body mimicking sleep patterns he had given up not long ago.



-



Grantaire, human now, curled into the door with his back against the wood, hugged himself tight, screwed his eyes shut, and prayed for the 

ache 

of his bones to let him breathe, to let him out of its grip. The heavy weight of his muscles, like his very body was too small for him, like there was some external pressure forcing him to conform to this tight, human vessel. 



He bit his lip, cursing away the pain, tried to drown the thud of blood in his ears, tried to listen— 



“I want to put you above everyone else.” Enjolras’ voice was so quiet, sounded so far away that Grantaire had to strain to listen, to focus, intent on the sound of his voice to decode the words. “Grantaire...” Enjolras said, more a whisper than anything.



-



“Shh,” Grantaire heard, senses dimmed to nothing more than the sensation of wood against his cheek, aware, somehow, that he was crying, “Shh…”



-



The Musain was too quiet. Combeferre, Joly and Bossuet had accompanied Enjolras and Grantaire to wherever they were going to lock the wolf up, then were to join the outside crew, on the hunt for wolves in need of assistance. 



Feuilly and Courfeyrac had been left here, in command, so that anyone with questions could be met with both human and vampire race relations, as it were. Everyone else had been sent to provide assistance, to whoever needed.



Bahorel had exchanged words with Courfeyrac a half hour before and been allowed to slip out with the others. Probably to let his fellow gang members know he was okay. Feuilly fiddled with a bottle on the table, thinking, only, 

Bahorel is a member of a gang 

with each mouthful of wine.



“I was promised a talk,” Courfeyrac said, quite suddenly, stilling the bottle in Feuilly’s hands. When Feuilly did not look up, Courfeyrac took a swig from the bottle, most likely for dramatic effect, and gave it back. “We are alone, now, and have exhausted our usual conversation topics.”



Feuilly snorted. “You talk about the colour of Combeferre’s eyes too often.”



“They are like 

sea glass

, Feuilly. Sea glass. Have you ever seen such luminous eyes on a person?”



“Not on a human, no,” Feuilly said, bitterness creeping into his voice. 



Courfeyrac was taken aback for a second, before he smiled. “The infamous diplomat finally resorts to petty remarks. I thought I’d never live to see the day.”



Feuilly rolled his eyes, but allowed his spirits to be lifted by Courfeyrac’s blatant attempts at trying to cajole Feuilly into a better mood. 



“So, you’re not the only spy.”



Feuilly nodded. 



“There are more than three?”



“It took giving up the wolves to get even a yes or no for the multiple.”



Courfeyrac played with his bottom lip, fingers pulling at it in thought. “Interesting. Do you know whether they would have joined earlier or later than you?” At Feuilly’s furrowed brow, Courfeyrac prodded further. “Do you get the impression that you’re doing grunt work, or that you’re heading the drive for information?”



“Grunt work.” Feuilly was sure of that; he had only been told to get a bar job and to listen... except— “He, Inspector Javert, he let slip, or wanted me to know that he was giving the more lead jobs to those outside of relationships. To men, in particular. He was rather disappointed when I insisted I had a female fiance.”



Courfeyrac looked less perturbed than Feuilly had anticipated. “This again. Every millenia, you get some lawman trying to link us with… well, us. I’ll be honest, the people I am in favour with tend to be both vampire and an interpretation of ‘alternate’, whether gender or sexual variation. It’s honestly a wonder it never sticks beyond a year or so.” 



“You don’t seem particularly worried.”



“Oh, please. They didn’t stop us in Homer’s time, and they shan’t in Hugo’s either.” Courfeyrac looked to Feuilly, and shrugged. “You live long enough, you see things more ‘outlandish’ than polyamory, that’s for sure. We might as well make the space around 

us 

comfortable, even if we never manage to change the world.”



“I would argue that that was changing the world.”



“Maybe to the individual. To the coward, living pent up in his house, with his friends, protecting his tiny corner of the world from the jealous bigots just beyond the hedgerow.” There was a glint, there, of someone just beyond the smoke and mirrors of ‘Courfeyrac’. A coward. Courfeyrac had bit his lip. It bled, which fascinated Feuilly, and then the moment passed, and the injury had healed. 



“Why do you do it?” Courfeyrac asked, entirely himself again. 



“Money.”



Courfeyrac cocked a head at him, gaze cool and inquisitive. 



“Money,” Feuilly repeated, simply. “I needed - need money to survive.” 



“Is that all?”



“Is that 

all

?” Feuilly repeated, incredulous to the point where he sounded - felt - was - hollow. “Yes, that is all, Courfeyrac.” 



“Seems like a risky job. Seems like it’d be underfunded.”



Feuilly clenched his hands, once, then lay them both flat, palms down on the table and met Courfeyrac’s eyes with one he knew was positively chilling. “If you are not actively baiting me, Courfeyrac, I would suggest you reconsider your position.”



They held eye contact, until far beyond uncomfortable. Feuilly dropped the contact first, telling himself that this was not because he was weaker, but because he was stronger. Courfeyrac - everyone was under intense pressure. It was not forgiveness, but it was a once-only pardon. 



Feuilly wanted to talk to Bahorel. He wanted to tell Bahorel — he wanted to recount the day he’d had, and he wanted Bahorel to laugh at the audacity, to cry outrage at the horrors, to place his hand on Feuilly’s back, and then to kiss him. 



Feuilly felt angry tears well up in his eyes, throat becoming knotted and cheeks heating with a furious lack of power. 



Courfeyrac took a deep breath in, then out. Feuilly mimicked it. 



“I’m so glad he’s alive,” Feuilly said, and let out a small, wet laugh.



-



Lives. Human lives. The lives of his friends. The lives of the policemen. A human shield. 



 Bahorel grit his teeth. 



He needed to know how the police were moving. He could do this for his friends; could find their plans, could help people avoid their strike zones. Javert almost certainly knew of the location of the Musain; it would not do to set up a central base of operations there. 




You killed them. People will have to pay.




Rebellion. Unity. The power of numbers. The power of friendship in achieving liberty.



Frustrated, he powered through the Musain door with more strength than necessary, the wood slamming against the wall as it opened out. 



“Shit, sorry,” he said, not looking up, already on guard, body tense for attack. He smelled. He smelled like death, and he smelled like Javert. 



When nothing — no one attacked him, he looked up to find the Musain abandoned. Empty but for one table, occupied by Courfeyrac and Feuilly. 



Feuilly’s hand came to his face within an instant, and Bahorel did not need to be a Detective to know he had been crying. Courfeyrac had the look of a cat who, on first instinct, had readied itself to pounce, but who had decided not to bother. 



“Police raid,” Bahorel said, “Best not to be here.” 



Courfeyrac nodded. “I’m going to find Combeferre. You two join the street teams. Warn anyone you see that help will be available from Jehan’s studio. Feuilly, you remember the address?” 



Feuilly nodded, eyes not having left Bahorel. 



Courfeyrac looked between the two and stood. “Okay.” Though he looked ready to prevent a fight, that was all he said. 



He paused as he passed Bahorel. “Might want to wash yourself first.” 



Bahorel nodded, eyes equally locked with Feuilly.



“Okay.” 



Courfeyrac closed the door behind him. 



“Feui.”



“Bahorel.” 



Bahorel looked away first. 



“We should-” 



“I wanted to-” Bahorel bit his lip, gesturing for Feuilly to speak first. 



“We should go help our friends.”



“Yes.”



Neither man moved. 



“You wanted to…?” 



Bahorel wiped at his face, knowing that by now, Feuilly would have certainly placed the final pieces together. He was not a gang member. He was a spy. 



He had killed wolves, endangered vampires, and when it came time for the people to rise, they would remember him, think on his actions, and they would choose not to hear the call. In one, he had destroyed their chances at unity. 



“Will you come to my lodgings?” 



Feuilly’s face was raw incredulity. Bahorel briefly considered attempting to turn the moment light, to weave innuendo into the offer in the hopes of making Feuilly laugh, to make him bend. 



The thought died. 



“I was advised to wash the smell of dead wolf from my skin. Will you wait for me?”



Feuilly turned this over in his mind, took a deep breath… and nodded. 



“Okay,” Bahorel said, “It’s 10 minutes, less if we hurry.” 



Feuilly stood, wordless, and followed Bahorel out of the café.



-



Bahorel had Feuilly wait with his landlady while she prepared some hot water downstairs. Meanwhile, he stripped himself of his ruined clothes, the tattered material matted with an array of blood and bodily fluids. Having been in them for so long, the smell hadn’t really hit him until now, not until the squelch of not-yet-dried wetness under his armpits, between his toes, in the crooks and crannies of his body reminded him of the abysmal day he had had. 



Some items of clothing he had to remove slowly, not having realised the extent of the slashes in his body, cloth melding with torn skin and dried blood that necessitated a slight pull to dislodge. 



Several of the larger of these cuts then began to ooze sickly-looking blood, and Bahorel felt a twang of horror in the pit of his stomach. He was certainly no doctor, but he had been in plenty of scrapes before and the injuries had certainly never looked like this.



By the time Feuilly entered, carrying the hot water and some clean scraps of cloth, Bahorel was using his undergarments as if rags to stem the flow of blood. 



“Do you need assistance?” Feuilly asked from the doorway, behind the hasty privacy-screen Bahorel had erected in the room - a blanket from his bed hung between them to avoid Feuilly’s seeing the extent of his injuries.



“No, uh…” Bahorel had found a particularly runny slash across his midriff, and found it hard to concentrate with the thought ‘this needs stitching’ running through his brain. “Could you get me out a clean suit of clothes?”



An arm reached out from behind the screen, depositing the bucket by his feet, and then a moment later, the sound of Bahorel’s drawers opening. 



Bahorel dampened his cloth and began dabbing at the areas most affected; whether by blood or dirt, dabbing and dabbing and dabbing until the hot water had become a dark, thick quagmire. 



Feuilly had gone silent, but there was a set of his clothes hung over the privacy screen which Bahorel took, dressing first his wounds with clean scraps of linen he had stocked from previous fights, then his body with his clothes.



Feeling not quite clean, but certainly cleaner, Bahorel emerged from behind the screen. 



“Feuilly, I’m ready.”



Feuilly, who had been sat on Bahorel’s bed, studying his own hands, looked up. “Then let’s go.”



Bahorel ducked his head. Paused, then, taking a deep breath, met Feuilly’s eye once again. “I’m ready for the change. To become yours.”



A surge of affection, one Feuilly had been attempting to quash for a fortnight now, rushed through him, causing his heart to leap, his throat to tighten. 



Bahorel squared his shoulders. “I know what you are. You know what I am. I love you.” 



“You — what?”



“Life is fleeting, I’ve fucked up, I love you, I want to be yours forever.”



“I love you too.” That was irrefutable. Feuilly had always been pragmatic. He thought the secret to that was to say what you had on your mind. To set high goals but to take achievable steps. He loved that about Bahorel, too. Big. Encompassing. Entirely predictable in his chaos. Feuilly nodded. “Then I’m ready too. If you’re sure.”



“I am if you are.”



Feuilly nodded again. Sure, now. More than sure. To spend the rest of his life with Bahorel, for better or for worse, to be so linked so as to practically feel every scar on Bahorel’s body as his own, to love, forever… 



“How does this work, then,” Bahorel asked, stepping back slightly and indicating whether he should remove his shirt, or roll up his sleeves. “How do you want me?”



“I would have thought you’d be more versed in this than me,” Feuilly laughed, conscious about his movements, not wanting to seem scared, or as if he were having second thoughts.



“Me? I’ve never even seen it happen before.”



Feuilly definitely felt the first wave of nervousness then. “Well I’m hardly the fountain of knowledge on it either…” He considered loosening his cravat, for easier access. “Perhaps we should ask Bossuet, or Courfeyrac.”



“Is it not some, like, innate thing?” Bahorel asked, curiosity written plain on his face.



Feuilly raised an eyebrow. “Why would it be? ...Were you not taught how to do it? By some elder or something?”



“An… elder?”



The pair could only stare at one another, both horrifically confused.



Bahorel blinked first. His hands, previously at his sides, rose to Feuilly’s neck, both hands covering Feuilly’s neck, touching lightly.




Thump. Thump

. Beating. Speeding up.



Bahorel bit his lip, starting to shake, his hands slipping from Feuilly’s neck, tracing down the man’s chest until one covered Feuilly’s heart. “You’re 

human

,” he laughed, words barely decipherable.



“You didn’t know I was 

human?

” Feuilly could not believe that any vampire would be stupid enough, unsensitive enough not to realise Feuilly had a bleeding, beating heart. That Feuilly had worked himself up so much, only to find out that Bahorel had not even known they were of different species.



Bahorel, still laughing, fell forward, into Feuilly’s space, embracing Feuilly in a tight, warm hug. It was certainly nice; it felt a lot like being loved. Bahorel, who might act like an absolute arse was, at heart, warm and loving.



Warm. Bahorel’s neck against Feuilly’s lips. 

Thump. Thump

. Beating. 



Feuilly felt his stomach plumet. He groaned. “Please tell me that that is not a heartbeat.”



“That’s a heartbeat.” Bahorel hugged impossible tighter, his voice gleeful. “You didn’t know I was human.”



“How could you think I was not?”



“How could you think 

I 

was not.”



Feuilly brought his hand up to Bahorel’s arm, squeezing lightly to indicate Bahorel’s muscles.



Bahorel’s laugh was almost deafening, the purest expression of cheer. If it weren’t directly in Feuilly’s ear, Feuilly might have died of ecstacy on the spot. Bahorel pushed Feuilly back slightly so he could meet Feuilly’s eye, grin wide. “Oh these are 

all 

natural, baby.”



It was almost like looking into the sun. Feuilly had to dip his gaze to avoid the pure brilliance of it, burying himself once again in Bahorel’s embrace, face pressed to Bahorel’s chest. “I feel like such a fool,” he said, words muffled.



Bahorel patted Feuilly’s head in sympathy, other hand pulling Feuilly closer to himself. “Well,” he said, “How was I supposed to know that you were human when you’re the epitome of beauty?”



Feuilly used his forehead to hit Bahorel’s chest in silent protest. “Stupid human.” Then, settling again, he sighed. “How many of them do you think know?”



“There must be a bet,” Bahorel agreed. “Grantaire, for sure.”



Feuilly felt Bahorel tense as he realised his own words, then the grip of Bahorel’s hands lose their strength. 



"I’m the police spy,” Feuilly said, “Grantaire was right. It’s my fault he’s—”  Feuilly was pushed back, Bahorel looking him dead in the eye.



“I’m the police spy.” 



“Bahorel, don’t. This is my fall, I can’t have you taking it for me to esponge my guilt-”



“I’m the police spy. Letters from gamins to gamins from Javert.” 



Feuilly’s mouth went dry. He realised his mouth was open; he closed it. 



“Courfeyrac knows about me,” Bahorel said, once he knew Feuilly was ready for new information. 



“Courfeyrac knows about me, too.” 



The pair searched one another’s eyes for a moment. “I denounce the police,” they said as one, and then deflated with relief. 



“Feuilly,” Bahorel said, thinking of nothing that could better encapsulate his thoughts.



“Bahorel,” Feuilly replied, having the same process of thought. He brought his hand to Bahorel’s cheek, stroking over his cheekbone in a long, soft movement. Love glittered bright in his eyes, even as he said “You are a complete arse.”



Bahorel’s smile glittered just as bright as he kissed Feuilly’s palm. They detached themselves from one another, then moved, as one, to the bed, where they sat and, for a half hour, relieved themselves of the information they had carried to Javert. 


 

well, see you after my next one year hiatus, i guess 

CW: non-sexual dubcon due to identity

i was softly bullied, and so congratulations, this story will be completed!


When Grantaire wakes, he does so in a bed that’s not his own. 



His stomach drops, drowsy body contemplating his being unfaithful, having drunkenly found himself a lover for the night — before his nose connects the scent of the bed to Combeferre. Clean bedding, clean sleepwear, his mind supplies, no chance of a very, very impromptu affair. 




Affair? Unfaithful

? As the cogs in his brain begin to creak into operation, they berate him for the laughable treatment of his unreciprocated feelings for Enjolras as breaking any terms of a monogamous relationship. You can’t ruin something you’re not part of.



Sitting up is a real strain, his head pounding like Gavroche has fitted a bucket over it and is pounding out a rhythm. His lips crack as he tries to lick them with a dry tongue, and his breath is 

bad

, to put it mildly. Surprisingly clean, though. No tracks of blood down his face, no flesh under his fingernails.



Grantaire gets the flash of a memory: the moon, bright, through the slats of a window. Him, pacing, him ramming his body against the door as if to bodily knock it down. 



As if reacting to the visual reminders, a spark of pain shoots up his leg, and he feels the ache of a particularly large bruise against his right side. He glances down to find a splint tied to his right leg, Joly’s work if the precision of the ties are anything to go by. 



So he hadn’t made it out to the countryside last night? 



No, he had been drinking. 



And then Bahorel—



The bodies— 



Grantaire keeled over the side of the bed, retching at the memory. With his movement a bowl shot off the end of the bed, clattering to the floor, and he heard the distant sound of voices roused by it.




“You were a dancer, Grantaire. I remember that.” 

Enjolras’ voice, distant, sad, pained. Grantaire had curled up in the doorway, chasing the sound of his voice.



Enjolras had been there? Enjolras had heard him? Seen him in that state?



Awash with a feeling of shame so raw, Grantaire could not help but curl into himself and let out an appalled cry. Forget unreciprocated, this would have him banished. 



-



Cosette sat herself in Javert’s study with a sense of curiosity. This was an emotion she rarely felt about the man; especially not since the rather frank conversation they had had to have about his treatment of her mother in life.



It had not happened over one day, as Javert might have hoped, but had been a drawn-out interrogation between the pair of them over months. Cosette had moved between hateful, harrowed and 

angry

, then had become sad, frustrated, helpless, before moving towards a state of acceptance. Not forgiveness, never forgiveness, but she understood. She understood Javert in ways she thought no-one else in his life could.



They had reached a state of careful neutrality, the pair pleasant to one another but never intimate. They would not, Cosette expected, move beyond this.



Cosette had termed this room ‘Javert’s study’ because he used it as such: it was in fact her old bedroom, repurposed to Javert’s own. The vanity had become a writing desk, the windowsill that once displayed her knickknacks bare. It did rather amuse her to see that he continued to use the lace-edged pillowcases adorned with her amateur attempts at embroidery. Cosette suspected that Javert had no inkling that they were her hand-me-downs, likely thought them spares donated to him by Valjean.



“I apologise for calling you here,” Javert said as he directed her towards a second desk that had been installed where a wardrobe used to sit. It reminded her of those desks she had glanced at the police station, lined with folders and writing utensils, books on law and philosophy stacked above it on a shelf. “And I would apologise for inviting a Baroness into a space so informal, except, well,”



“That this used to be my room?”



“Quite.” Javert glanced at the neatly made bed. “I feel I should be embarrassed, but I doubted you would think this a breach of your propriety.” 



“You know that you are always welcome at my husband’s home,” Cosette said, meaning it. “My grandfather, Monsieur Gillernormand, he has several libraries, none of which he uses. I’m sure I could entreat him your use of one of their desks?”



“That is very kind of you,” Javert said, avoiding Cosette’s eye. “Only, Monsieur Gillenormand… he…” Javert’s face flickered as if trying to search through some internal thesaurus. “Is not… particularly… interested in meeting…” Javert licked his lips. “He is not fond of those of us from ‘unclean’ bloodstreams.”



“‘Unclean’?” Cosette repeated, nose wrinkling. “These are his words?”



“Sometimes one needs not hear the words to understand the sentiment.”



“Hm.” Cosette nodded, remembering the very tone used on her as a child and knowing beyond a shadow of a doubt that men like her father and Javert heard far worse than herself. “I will speak to him.”



“No need, not on my behalf.”



“No,” Cosette said, “Not on your behalf. Not just yours, at least. That man is a wonder to me, treats me like a princess, but he has behaviours that do not sit right with me. He loves me, and if he would like to gain my love in return, he will learn for me.”



Cosette watched an expression pass Javert’s face, one that read of a kind of underestimation being overruled. He nodded, silently. Not quite a thank you, but a show of respect.



“Ah, but I have distracted us from the purpose of my being here. You wished to ask me something?”



“Yes.” Javert nodded. “Baroness Cosette, we must talk.”



“Talk away, father!” she said, retaining as straight a face as was possible until Javert’s expression of pure displeasure at the role she had played had her in a fit of laughter. “Apologies, apologies,” she tried to say as her laughter died a little. “It is just that you make such an easy target.”



Javert’s hackles had raised, and it took a few icy seconds for his shoulders to defrost, pride replaced by begrudging regret.



“Your actual father, Valjean, stated that, considering I am to make this my duty, I might broach a potentially… emotional topic with you.”



“Papa did not want to be present?”



“Papa did not want to be present,” Javert confirmed. “You remember I had you bring me my documents?”



“You want me to do so again?” Cosette asked, lighting up. 



“Unfortunately, yes.” Javert moved some papers about on his desk. “I have… decided to take up a case.”



“For the police?”



“No. A personal investigation, brought to me by your father.”



“What has he to investigate?” Cosette asked, searching her memory for likely causes. “He wants to find the man who turned him? At Toulon? Enact his revenge?”



“No,” Javert said hastily, looking slightly concerned at Cosette’s enthusiasm. “It concerns your mother.”



“My mother?” Cosette frowned. “What about her?”



“On her death bed, Valjean recalled her lamenting about her early life.”



“About leaving me at the inn, yes.”



“You and the Thénardiers, yes. And…”



“And? Come, Javert, you make this tedious.”



“And about another daughter. A twin to the first. A second golden child, snatched from the cradle.”



Cosette took a moment to let the words settle over her. “A… sister? I have a twin sister?”



Javert’s face took on the expression of a man who’s had to give countless doses of bad news to grieving parents. “We do not know if she currently lives, or if she does, whether she was raised in Paris, in France, even.” Here, Javert straightened his spine, apparently aiming for confidence. “But I have an eternity at my expense, and so I have decided to dedicate myself to the cause. Should that be your wish.”



“I do not.”



When Javert frowned, taken aback, Cosette sighed. “Javert, I do not have eternity. Most likely, my sister does not, either. If you are to find her, you must do so in a human lifespan, not a vampire’s. This is not a pet project to keep you occupied in your eternity, this is my life. Our lives.”



“Ah. Yes. You are correct, of course. I cannot promise anything, as you well know, but I will use any means available to bring the pair of you together. If it is within my power.” 



“And if God wills it,” Cosette added, touching the small crucifix at her neck. How unlucky, Cosette thought to herself, would she be should she find her long-lost twin, only to greet her by kneeling at her grave. 



“If she has passed,” Javert said, “Then perhaps there will be some peace in knowing that your mother and your sister embrace one another while looking down upon you?”



Cosette nodded.



“But let us not count our chickens too hastily,” Javert added. “This may be wishful thinking, but I wanted to ask whether you had any memory of the other child.”



“Any memories of the twin I did not know I had until this day?”



Javert shrugged one shoulder. “Perhaps if you were to think, you might unearth memories buried beneath the, er…”



“Trauma?”



“Quite.”



“I don’t like unearthing my childhood for a reason, Javert.”



“Yes. Yes, that is understandable.”



Cosette took a breath, then sighed. “How likely do you think it is that I might remember a sibling who was stolen while we lay together in a cot?”



Javert leaned slightly closer over the desk. “I said only that she was taken from the crib, and yet you say you lay together. Fabrication, perhaps, but maybe a memory. I find that the mind is remarkable in this regard.” 



Cosette twirled a finger in one of her golden curls as she thought. Organic memories of her childhood were rare, and positive ones even rarer. She had flashes of her mother’s warmth: distant and often raised by the familiar smell of lavender. 



Further back than that…



A time before her incarceration with the Thérnadiers...



“I don’t think that my twin is a sister,” Cosette said slowly. “I think that he is a brother? …but why would my mama not remember the gender of her child?”



“A boy? Perhaps it is Valjean who misremembered,” Javert dismissed, clearly excited by the new lead. “He would not have been in his right mind. You mother, either. It is highly likely that words were misinterpreted. A brother, you’re sure?”



“Yes,” Cosette said, with a sense of perplexing certainty. She had no flash of a face, nor anything so graspable as a scent or a sound, but there was a ghostly sensation of a soul, close to her own. A forehead against her own, a cheek, a nose, fingers in her own.



“This is positive news,” Javert said, nodding to himself. “A boy is a far easier target than a girl.” Noticing Cosette’s look, Javert clarified: “A boy, a young man, is far more likely to be employed, to have colleagues, to be written down. A young lady such as yourself… well, ask yourself: who notes your existence? The old woman at the market? Your serving staff? No. A boy? Perfect.”



“Would he…” Cosette nearly laughed at the oddness of the question she was about to ask. “Would he smell like me? My brother? Being my twin…”



“Well, I have yet had the, er, opportunity to smell a twin to confirm,” Javert said, a touch of humour to his own statement, “But blood certainly has its relations. A mother with a child, a brother to a sister. A twin must be unmistakable to anyone but a fool.”



Cosette nodded to herself. “That is something.”



“That is something,” Javert confirmed. “And so, you wish for me to pursue this investigation?”



Cosette wrung her hands as she thought. It would be another heartbreak to find yet more lost members of her family. To have another soul to pray for, to have another bloodmate she would never have the opportunity to know. But to give up the search purely because it might lead to sorrow? No. 



“Yes, but on the condition that we work together on the project.”



Javert, to his credit, did not make an objection as she had expected him to. “I had my suspicions that this would be a bargain you made,” Javert said, “And, if I am quite honest, you have ways to access information that I do not.”



Cosette smiled, unused to getting her way with the men in her life without much more of a fight. He was certainly learning. “Well then Javert,” she said, standing and offering her hand to him. 



“Ah,” Javert said, and Cosette paused.



“There was something else?”



“Not—” Javert shook his head. “Not a business matter.”



“Well now you have intrigued me, Javert.” Cosette lowered her hand.



“Hm. This is perhaps a sensitive topic, but…” Javert tapped his fingers on the desk. “You are not considering joining your husband and your father?”



“Joining them?”



“In undeath.” 



“Oh.” Cosette settled herself back into her seat. “No.”



“No?”



“No.”



“You do not… that is to say…” Javert glanced out of the window, as if he might catch sight of Valjean, working the garden. “They will both outlive you. That does not concern you?”



“It does. But I am not signing my death away when I have only known my husband for a span of months, not years. Perhaps in a decade I might feel more amenable to the situation, but for now, I would like to keep my options open.”



“I… see. That is sensible.” 



“And,” Cosette said, “If Marius or I would like a child, I could hardly do so without a working womb. We must discuss the options, if I decide to bear a child, but that is not a conversation I wish to have currently.”



“Oh.” Javert nodded. “You, ah… know, that…”



Cosette kept a neutral look on her face, knowing exactly what Javert was attempting to get at but refusing to allow him to escape saying it. “Hm?”



“Well, ah, you… somebody has, of course, briefed you, on the er… 

situation

, regarding the… fertility of the seed? Of the undead? We are, afterall, dead made flesh again, but not all of us… lives.”



Cosette fought to keep the grin off of her face. “See now Javert, providing me with the knowledge of the birds and the bees, we’ll make you my father, yet!” 



If Javert had the capability of flushing, Cosette was sure he would. “But yes, I am quite aware. I would have to have a child via a proxy seed, hence the need for a conversation with my husband, which I do not believe we are quite ready to have. Does that satisfy your curiosity?”



Javert nodded. “Apologies, I had not intended to pry, only…”



“You were worried. About my papa.”



“He… well, you saw him, when he thought that you had forsaken him last time. God only knows…” Javert trailed off. “But that is unfair on you. It is not right for the daughter to worry about the father.”



Javert stood, and so Cosette rose to match him. She shook the hand that he offered out to her. “I must first make enquiries. I will send letters when your skills are needed.” 



“Deal,” Cosette said, shaking once more, firm. “And, Javert. Thank you.”



-



Quite a lot had happened while Marius had been away with his dove. Being a full moon, Marius had wanted to surprise his Cosette in her garden, to sit with her on the little bench hidden from the world by ivy and rosebush.



They had talked all night, talked and laughed, and cried, and it had been like a dream. She had shushed him when his poetry had become too loud, warning about her sleeping father, and she had chided him when he had talked too depreciating of himself. And oh how she had smiled, and oh how she had made him blush!



Only the dawn light had forced them to part, and having very little place else to go, Marius had walked — danced, even — to the Musain.



His brain being so fogged by Cosette, he had not noted the cesspool of scent the café had become until he had walked into its epicentre, the door opening to unleash a noxious cloud of blood, bile, death, holy water, human, wolf, vampire, and sweat.



It had been so overwhelming that Marius had believed himself asleep, tripping from heavenly dream to nightmare. He almost crashed to his knees, only to have a hand wrap itself around his waist and lead him out, towards an upturned crate.



Once he had gained his senses, he found himself staring into the amused face of Courfeyrac. “And where, may I ask, have you been?”



“I— what…”



Courfeyrac made an over-exaggerated sniffing motion, at first turning delighted, and then desperately confused. “Do I smell a girl about your person, Pontmercy?”



Knowing there was no hiding it, Marius nodded. “I spent the night with my dove.”



Marius braced himself for the inevitable ribbing he was about to receive, wincing slightly at how open a target he had made himself, but after a long moment, he opened one eye to find Courfeyrac now sporting a far-away look. 



“Courf?”



“Ah!” Courfeyrac pulled himself together, eyes cracking into a more familiar expression of glee. “We shall berate you on your priorities another day. For now, you may want to look alive, if you’ll forgive the expression. Clean yourself, then head to Combeferre’s lodgings. Relieve the watch as quick as you’re able to.”



“The watch?”



“Grantaire should wake soon, and he will not be happy.” Courfeyrac patted Marius’ shoulder. “Have the watch fill you in, I have other matters to attend to. Comprendre?”



Marius nodded dimly, watching Courfeyrac return inside. 



Having no context on the importance of his mission, Marius took his time to get clean, asking his housekeeper to warm him some water he could definitely not afford and changing into his one spare outfit, borrowed long-ago from Courfeyrac. He did not want to endanger himself to bullying, and arriving in clothes that smelled of his lover was ill-advised. 



And, if he was honest, he did not want his friends to scent her out. She was his, and he would not share that with any of them. Not yet.



By the time he arrived at Combeferre’s, the noon sun was already sitting at its height. He knocked on the door and was welcomed in to the sight of Combeferre and Joly, sat on an empty, unmade bed, Grantaire’s scent thick in the air but long-gone.



-



Enjolras was almost glad that the morning of the waning moon also coincided with the death of General Lamarque. Enjolras had washed away the grime of his night spent guarding Grantaire’s chamber, taken a walk to pull himself together, and convened at the Musain for three in the afternoon, expecting to be briefed by his men about the situation with the wolves.



He was greeted with a somber room. He had been pleased to note that Musichetta and Éponine had returned, looking slightly worse for wear than usual but not significantly so. Bahorel and Feuilly, Combeferre and Courfeyrac, Jehan and Joly and Bossuet, even Marius and Gavroche sat about a long table.



No Grantaire, Enjolras noted, but that was expected. He would be tired, injured. He would return when he was better.



“General Lamarque is dead,” Gavroche had blurted, clearly breaking whatever pact he had made with Combeferre and Courfeyrac.



“How are you faring?” Combeferre asked, pointedly.



“I’m fine,” Enjolras dismissed. “But this… this is…” Enjolras clenched a fist, closed his eyes, and centered himself. He had years of practise suppressing errant feelings. What these people needed was a person with a goal. A leader in practice more than name. “His death, this is a sign. The sign we needed. Yes, this is good news, my friends. General Lamarque is dead, and at his funeral, the people will rise.”



Those who knew him best deciphered these words and got to work without order, heading to the back room to prepare their artillery. 



“We will have a long week ahead of us, friends. Go, greet your loved ones. Prepare provisions. Entreat every willing body to join us. Lamarque’s funeral…”



“Tomorrow morning,” Combeferre confirmed.



“Tomorrow morning. Wash, take care of your bodies. Rest, if you can. And be aware. Watch for the police, watch for the army. Note your surroundings, do you understand?”



There was a general round of agreement, and several people stood to go attend to their business.



Enjolras was halfway to the back room when he heard Éponine spit. 



“He didn’t even ask,” Éponine accused, every line of her body poised to attack. 



“Ask what?” Enjolras said, attempting to keep his instincts calm as he turned to face her. He met her eye, face carefully curating itself into neutrality.



“I don’t know,” Éponine said, poison in her voice, “What on earth could be so important?” 



Enjolras’s eyes flickered to Joly and Combeferre, the former looking down.



“He was gone when we went to check in on him,” Combeferre said. “We thought maybe he had gone to find his sisters, but…”



“But?” Enjolras said. 

You were supposed to protect him

, he didn’t continue.



“Who knows where he’s gone,” Éponine said, accusation heavy in her tone. “Last time he kept close, drowned himself in alcohol, but this time? What if he’s—”



Éponine was pulled into a ferocious hug by Musichetta, then piled on by Joly and Bossuet, Bahorel and Feuilly.



Enjolras had to avert his eyes from this expression of pure love. He swallowed, feeling the unfamiliar sensation of a knot building in his throat. He cleared his throat once, then levelled a cold look around the room. “General Lamarque is dead. The people will rise. We must prepare for the funeral. We must ready ourselves for war.”



“You—” Éponine was held back by the group surrounding her, but not by much. Enjolras could sense the tide of thought turning against him, and he steeled himself.



“Grantaire is a grown man. I am not his babysitter, and neither are you. I care about his safety, trust me when I say that I do, but he chose to run. We cannot make that same decision. This is a critical time, my friends. We must rise with our people. We must save our one true mistress, our one true love: France.”



Enjolras barely registered the cheers of agreement, nor the growls of disdain.



He felt numb. 



He supposed that would be a useful trait in the hours to come.



-



Valjean was sitting on the steps of his apartment when he heard the click-clacking of a small animal as it made its way down the cobbled street. 



Though he was in no mood for distraction, he felt his eyes drawn to the small dog. As it approached, he realised that its dark, matted fur had mixed with the shadows of the night, and that it was in fact a puppy, far too young, Valjean thought, to be separated from its mother.



Or perhaps not, he considered. He knew little about small animals, certainly not about dogs. Perhaps they separated from their parents at a young age. 



It was not quite a cute dog, but it seemed to have a great deal of character. Valjean thought he could even see the charming grin on the puppy’s face as it caught sight of Valjean. 



In the puppy’s mouth was a bundle of rags. Perhaps to build a nest? Valjean tilted his head. Burrow? Den? A home of some sorts. The thought briefly crossed his mind: Valjean had a home, a daughter who might love a puppy, who might clean the creature, cover it with kisses, pamper it and baby it — but the dog did not look like it would enjoy that. It looked pleased with its current circumstances, happy in whatever home it called it’s own, whether that was its den, or the streets of Paris, or, perhaps, the entire world. 



And then, Valjean thought, he did not have a daughter, nor did he have a home for much longer. He had caught the scent of a vampire boy on Cosette’s clothing. It was the smell of the boy who had lurked around them at the gardens, the one who had come close to finding their previous lodgings. 



He had found her, then, and Cosette was no longer his to love, and thus was not his daughter to lavish presents on. 



His face fell into one of deep depression. 



He no longer sensed the world, no longer saw, or heard, or smelled. 



He did not see as the pup transformed itself into a naked boy of eight, did not watch the gamin dress himself before Valjean, did not, could not comprehend the perplexed look on the boy’s face, who was so sure the transformation would startle the old man into a fainting fit. 



The boy sat beside Valjean, and tapped him on the shoulder. 



“Good evening, Mister.”



He waited some minutes, then tapped the man’s shoulder again. “Good evening mister. I was wondering whether you perchance to know where it was that I could find a Mademoiselle Cosette.” 



The name was like lightning to Valjean’s senses. He suddenly perceived the pup beside him, and understood the boy to be the very child he had seen walking up the path towards him. 



“Yes,” Valjean said, “I am her father.”



“What luck!” the pup said, drawing a letter from his pocket. “Good evening father, I have a letter for your daughter, if you have a coin.”



Valjean withdrew a coin from his pocket, not knowing what amount he was giving the boy, eyes locked on the letter. From here, he could smell whose hand had authored it. 



“Say, you’re one of them,” the pup said while they exchanged their goods. “Eternal critters of the night ‘n all that.”



Valjean’s attention shifted to the boy with monumental weight. 



“You ain’t gotta look at me like that, mister. Was just stating a fact.”



“You should know to be more careful.” Valjean felt the threat topple from his mouth, landing at the pup’s feet. 



The boy looked at it, then with a high laugh, stomped it underfoot. “You should know, yer people and my people, yer people and humans, humans and all, tonight we’re uniting. You should come, lend yer shoulders.” 



“I’m not one for fighting,” Valjean said, voice empty. 



“Then yer not worth my time.” The pup was already standing, had scooped up a rock from the road as he had. He weighed the stone in his hand for a moment, looking out across the street, then fired his missile at the lamp lighting the opposite side. 



Glass cracked and splintered to the street, the lantern going out as the wind rushed inside the chamber. 



He’d grown tall, wolf-like ears and a short, shaggy tail through this, though remained bipedal. 



“Do you,” Valjean started, before stalling, not entirely sure what he had been meaning to ask. The boy turned to him again, face blank and open. “Do you feel free, when you walk the street in wolf form?”



“They prefer giving food to dogs than to rats,” the boy said, matter-of-factly twitching his nose. “And my children are forced to remain rats, so I must be a dog.” The boy removed his cap, bowing to Valjean, the dip of which he used to transform himself. The pup gave Valjean a single nod of the head before scooping his discarded clothes into his jaw and trotting off down the street.



Only once Valjean had gotten over the wondrous transformation did he realise the child’s words. “Children?” Valjean echoed to himself. 

Siblings,

 the boy most probably meant. Siblings to care for. 



This thought brought him back to the letter in his hand. 



-



Javert’s gaze flickered across the room— and caught one eye in particular. A young hunter from the Prefecture. They had met once. Bahorel, he thought his name was. Bahorel, shocked to see Javert, looked around himself, evidently alarmed one of his current companions might have noticed the mutual recognition. Javert cleaned any such emotion from his face, realising the boy must still be in disguise. A part of him rejoiced in his not being completely alone at the barricade; that he was not the only spy. If all else failed, he could rely on this boy to free him.



Then, to Javert’s interest, Bahorel was joined by Feuilly. 



The two whispered to one another as they eyed Javert, and the Inspector’s heart warmed. So the boys had found out about each other, then. They had found one another amidst the night of the full moon, and they had planned for this. Javert could not help the vicious grin that spread across his features. These silly children of the barricade would not know what hit them. 



Though he had given up freeing himself from the bonds securing his wrists behind his back several hours ago, he strained against them again with renewed vigour, wanting nothing more than to wipe the silly smirks from the revolutionaries’ faces upon finding not one but 

three

 police spies.



He had long since grown to ignore the burn of the rope against his wrists, red so raw that there was little skin left to break, but still he tugged. Tugged and tugged, a feral growl forming between his bared, gritted teeth.



Occupied as he was with freeing himself, he did not hear Feuilly’s approach, not until the man had his lips to Javert’s ear. Javert stilled, heart beating in expectation of some code. 



“Long live the republic.” 



Javert felt his expression fall, knew that he looked an absolute fool. Hope, expectation, glee, all turned to disbelief and then 

disgust. 

They had betrayed Javert in favour of their childish revolt. 



Feuilly returned to Bahorel, and the pair of them looked down at him with — 

pity

. Pity? Not haughty disdain for Javert, not glee at his capture, but pity. 

Traitors! 

he wanted to scream. 

Damn you! Damn you and your traitor brethren! 




He would relish their deaths when they came. He would live, just to twist his foot in their wounds.



-



Marius was miserable. 



His angel, going across the sea. This barricade he had arrived at in a haze.



He had, rather naively, assumed that this barricade would be a brief reprieve from his misfortune in love, but had had a rather terrifying reality check as he had caught the fallen body of an aged vampire: a holy-water wrought bullet lodged in his burning chest.



This was not a human barricade and, Marius had been shocked to learn, the soldiers knew this. They were prepared.



Catching Javert had been a boon, as had been Bahorel and Feuilly’s knowledge of the vampire-hunter’s ways, their likely provisions and tactics. These were the only reasons they had not already succumbed to a mass slaughter.



Marius had been attempting not to cry in his mandated break. No man was as miserable as he — of that he knew for certain. No man living, at least. His father, may his soul rest in peace, was certainly the holder of the title of the most miserable man in history. Marius could not cry, not when he had to uphold the legacy of his father.



Marius sniffed, and then froze. His head snapped around, so fast he heard his neck crack. His Cosette, his beautiful Cosette was here — 



He followed his nose, and met eyes with Enjolras. Enjolras looked spooked. Surprised, no doubt, to have Marius focus on him with such manic intent.



“Are you all right?” Enjolras asked, approaching Marius like one might creep towards an injured animal. He asked the question like a man who did not really want to know the answer, but was duty-bound to ask regardless.



Marius scented the air again to double check; let the scent sit on his tongue. It smelled like Cosette, but… there was something distant about it. Agh, it was hard to get a full picture, here, where everything smelled like alcohol and blood and gunpowder. Marius could smell Éponine’s blood on his own clothing, could smell the humans and the vampires and the wolves of the barricade, and underneath it all, his love, his angel.



Marius’s brows knitted together. “You— have you been—” But no, the thought was ludicrous. His angel, with… with Enjolras? Under his very nose? No, no it could not be! Enjolras he might not trust, but Cosette? How could Marius make such accusations about her! Marius shook his head, furious with himself. What a lech! What an ingrate! What a fool!



Marius took a deeper huff. What was he thinking?! They smelled nothing alike! Not really, not if he really thought about it! Some lingering familiarity, but that was just because he was missing his beautiful lark! That must be it — a trick of the brain, was all!  



“You look as if you’ve seen a ghost,” Enjolras tried. “You must rest if you are to be clear-headed when they next attack.”



Marius nodded. “I will. Thank you, Enjolras.”



Enjolras gave him another considering look but said no more.



-



It turned out that having nothing more to go on than an approximate age, an approximate look and a 

smell

 made for a difficult investigation. 



Javert sat back in his chair, throwing the letter he had just read into his waste-paper basket. Another dead end. 



“Have you seen a beautiful blonde man, between the age of sixteen and twenty?” he had asked. He had only asked those who did not think him dead, especially those who assumed him retired.



“No,” everyone had replied. “This is a very strange request, Javert, are you sure you’re quite well.”



“I do not believe that I am,” Javert did not reply. News would no doubt be spreading of his mission, and now that the grapevine believed him to be the secret father of a golden-haired girl, it was a certainty that the two rumours would swirl and combine.



Javert, the stoic policeman, retired? Deceased? Who had been revealed to have not one, but two secret children. Illicit? Out of wedlock? How had they come to be? Why had he protected their identity so?



Javert let out a haggard breath. He supposed he had no right to be quite so protective over his legacy. He had worked throughout his life to make sure his reputation suited him, and that privilege was not something he was going to be allowed to nurture in this new life. So be it. This was his penance.



Javert did not jump as his door burst open, having sensed the girl now seating herself before him as she’d turned the corner of the street. He did not straighten himself, allowing himself the shame of the failure to be read openly by her. 



“Good afternoon, Javert!”



“Is it?” Javert replied. 



“It’s about to be!” Cosette chirped in her incessantly cheery voice. “I have a present for you.”



“Should I be worried as to the legality of this present?”



“For once, not at all!” Cosette handed over a small stack of paper. 



Javert took a deep breath of air to strengthen himself, then returned himself to a more respectable upright position. Javert spread the papers out over his desk, then gaped. 



There were five drawings, ranging from sketch to oil painting, depicting a ghost. Javert found himself inspecting each drawing, breathless, before finding his words again. “Where did you get these?”



“I had them made for me by my grandfather’s artist! He is a patron of the arts, and so he keeps an artist on retainer. I asked the artist to depict me, but as a man! You see, if he is my twin, he must have my features, my expressions, but with a more masculine line to them. The artist thought it a very odd request, but I said it was to satisfy my curiosity!” Cosette reached across the desk to spread the images out. “I wasn’t sure which would help most in an investigation. A sketch is easy to reproduce, especially if we were to put out engravings, but a full colour portrait would be useful for specifics, no? Then we have a pencil colour, which is simple but captures the hair colour, a watercolour which is a little too flattering for my liking, and my personal favourite, the charcoal. Not at all useful for our investigation, but you see the artist made a mistake on the chin and so installed a thick beard upon my brother? It is quite funny!”



Javert intended to scoff, but it came out giddy.



“You think me a fool,” Cosette said, disappointed. “Listen, I know it sounds like a pointless endeavour, but is this not a way we can encourage greater interest in our hunt? What if we were to hand out pamphlets? We might make much more headway if we could paper the streets of Paris with my brother’s image.”



“I do not think you a fool,” Javert assured, once he had allowed the feeling of astoundment work its way through his body. “I think 

I 

am.”



“You, monsieur?”



“Me, Baroness. You see, this man that you have drawn, I know him.”



“You do?!” Cosette asked, brightening like the horizon at daybreak.



“I do. Or, rather… I fear, I did.”



-



“I am a fool,” Marius said, face in his hands. “A true, incomparable fool.” 



Cosette nodded, dour. “Yes,” she agreed. “You are.”



“Come, you must not be so harsh on him my sweet,” Valjean attempted.



“You did not notice either!” Cosette reminded her father.



“Now that is not fair,” Valjean defended, “I barely interacted with the boy, and in that place, which smelled so much of death…”



“I hardly talked to him either!” Marius said, clearly riding on Valjean’s coattails.



“He was the leader of the barricade you were at,” Cosette reminded. “You cannot tell me that you were never close enough to tell that we smelled alike!” 



“I—” Marius bit his lip.



“So you did notice?” Javert asked, knowing guilt when he saw it.



“Yes,” Marius said, and if there was any way his face could contort more, Javert suspected it would. “Only… I… I thought…”



“This will be good,” Javert told Valjean and Cosette.



“Don’t mind him, my sweet,” Cosette said, touching her hand to her husband’s. 



“Promise me that you will not be too angry with me?” Marius said, raising his wet eyes to entreat his wife.



“My dearest husband, I love you with all my heart. I will take anything you say with that in mind.”



Marius nodded to himself, then swallowed. “I did smell you upon him, my dearest, but I thought… perhaps… well… Jealousy took its hold of me, and I thought that perhaps you and he had… been together.”



Javert had to bite his bottom lip to prevent himself from barking out a great laugh. He barely held himself together, and that was before he caught a similar expression of humour on Valjean’s face. 



Cosette, meanwhile, looked positively anguished. “You thought that I had… 

copulated 

with my own 

brother?!

” 



“I did not know Enjolras was your twin! How was I too— I simply— I… but my sweet, I put that thought aside as ludicrous, and I thought no more about it!”



“You are unfathomably atrocious!” Cosette said, “You had your first, envious thought, and then you disregarded our relationship entirely? You did not enquire after me? You did not push the matter?”



Marius shook his head, mouthing a silent “no.”



“No.” Cosette set her jaw, the rims of her eyes reddening with tears. “And now I will never know my brother.”



“I am a fool,” Marius said again, clutching at his middle.



Javert had the sudden and daunting realisation that he was now trapped in this room, and knew not how to navigate the situation he had found himself in.



He thanked God himself when Valjean drew himself up and placed himself between the two children. “Come. Emotion is high. Both of you have lost someone. A brother, in blood or in spirit. You will not be nice to one another, and you will regret it. Let us have a break in the conversation, perhaps go for a walk, or take tea.”



Cosette nodded, dabbing at her tears with a delicate handkerchief. Marius was less dainty, wiping his leaking eyes and nose against his sleeve.



“Not all the bodies were recovered.”



Valjean shot Javert an anxious look, shaking his head almost imperceptibly.



“It is not nice to give false hope,” Cosette said, cautious.



“I know,” Javert said. “But it would also not do to lie by omission. I know for a fact that we… the police did not recover every person we believed to be at the barricade. I never saw a full list, but it is worth checking, is it not? Especially since your brother was not human.”



“He wasn’t?” Cosette asked, turning to her husband for confirmation. 



“Enjolras was like us.”



“Harder to kill, easier to escape,” Javert noted. “And with more places to go underground.”



“Yes,” Marius said, hope visibly rekindling within him. “Enjolras, he was of aristocratic blood. And Courfeyrac, Combeferre, Jehan, they’ve been alive for ages. They wouldn’t have died. Not really.” Marius swallowed, eyes darting around as if they might be hiding behind the curtains of the room. “And Feuilly, and Bahorel, they were so strong, human or not, and Joly and Bossuet — the others wouldn’t have let them die. Musichetta either, and—” 



Marius took a sharp intake of air. “And Ponine, and Gavroche, and Grantaire. They… they protect one another. They’re a family. They…”



Marius’s gaze dropped to his hands, wet, in his mind’s eye, with blood.



Éponine, Gavroche… he had held them as the heat had leached from their bodies.



Jehan’s cry of pain from a distance, torn from the barricade, shot, alone.



“It is worth a try, at least,” Cosette said, wrapping a hand around her husband’s shoulders. “We should not expect miracles, but it is worth a try.”



-



After taking an intermission to partake in a meal and to let Cosette usher Marius out on a walk, the group reconvened in the early evening.



"It is likely that we must divvy our tasks out. We should search the morgues, we must ask around the vampires and the werewolves, and we must find the police report on the death toll."



"I cannot be completely sure,” Valjean interrupted, “But I fear that a search of the morgues might not make for a conductive search."



"You do not expect to find dead bodies at the morgue?"



"Not the ones we search for, no. I, ah, visited every morning for a month after the barricades fell, to no avail."



"Why on earth did you do that, Papa?"



Valjean winced like a man who's been asked a question he really, really hoped would not be asked. "I… was looking for someone."



Javert imagined he did not have to have had a background as a detective to understand it was his corpse Valjean had been out searching for. He tutted, because that seemed a better response to show in public. "You're a damned fool, Valjean."



"A fool, perhaps, but a damned one, I hope not."



Javert simply rolled his eyes. "I do not imagine you knew every boy who went to the barricades. One of us ought to go with you, to make sure we have not missed a boy you did not recognise."



"It has been so long," Marius said in a quiet voice. "Do you suspect…"



"Bodies often spend time lodged under water, or might have taken a while to wash out from the sewer system. Mangled, for sure, but perhaps recognisable by the clothing or the hair."



Noting a particularly queasy look working its way across Marius' face, Javert nodded to himself. "Yes, perhaps it would be best for me to go. It was my task at the barricade to note the faces of the trai— the revolutionaries. Cosette, being the only human amongst us, I must ask you to once again face the imbeciles at the police house and ask for the documents relating to the night of the barricade."



"How might I phrase that? I suppose I cannot simply waltz into the station and demand confidential reports?"



"Hm, yes." Javert tapped a finger on his chin. "Ask… No, tell them that you had a fiancee go missing. The night before the barricade. Request the report noting what bodies had been taken from the barricades. Confirmed deaths, mind."



"And if they ask for his name?"



"Say that you do not wish to endanger his family, should he not be on the list. He is a bourgeois, yes, and for them to be associated with the rebels… what trouble that would cause!"



"Why would they provide that for her?" Valjean asked. "Surely they will suspect ill intentions?"



"Because they are foolish boys," Javert replied. "They will want her fiancé to be recently deceased, because that increases the chances of their courtship. Understood?"



"Understood," Cosette assented.



"Marius, your grandfather, does he still mix with the aristocrats?"



"No, inspector, not anymore. He has forsworn their parties in order to make more time for my Cosette."



"Do you know the names of his past associates?"



"Of course, inspector. I too was invited to those salons, I know them very well."



"Marvellous. Your task, then, is to get yourself invited to an evening event."



"And me?" Valjean asked.



"When you gave alms, did you note which areas were owned by which territory?"



"Not because I believed my money should benefit any group more than another."



"Perfect. So the wolves know your scent, conceivably consider you an ally. Your task then is to find information with them. Are we each comfortable with our tasks?" 



Javert watched the small group about him nod in turn. 



"Good. Then let us rest, and we embark upon our missions in the morning."



Cosette, having had the childhood she had, was quite competent in noting when she had picked up a shadow. She had requested the cab driver to drop her off a street away from the police house, wanting at least a few minutes to clear her head and practise her expressions before entering. She had refused accompaniment from any of the men of the household with the excuse that should any of them be spotted, her ruse as a pathetic young woman with no support would deteriorate. 



This shadow was very good, and did not seem menacing, and so Cosette continued her way to the station, knowing that people this good at trailing ladies likely did not want to be seen in the vicinity of the police. 



Perhaps this certainty was what ensured her becoming trapped in the spider's web. She did not realise the knife was to her neck until a hand at the back of her dress pulled her out of the main street and into a dark alcove.



"Scream and I cut your neck."



Cosette rolled her eyes at such a trite line. "If you so much as touch a hair on my head, beings more powerful than you will smite you so hard you wished you were dead."



"I don't believe in god," the shadow snarled.



"It is not God that monsieur should fear, but creatures of the night."



"Hah, and what does a girl such as you know about creatures of the night?"



"What does a boy like you know?" 



"Enough," the shadow said, and Cosette heard the sound of a bottle uncorking. She felt a slight wetness to the back of her neck. 



In reply, Cosette hooked a finger under the collar of her dress, revealing the thumbprint of blood kept there.



The shadow jolted back as if stung by mere proximity of it, allowing Cosette to take two steps back and to face her attacker. He was a young man, of a similar age to herself, and would be extraordinarily handsome, had he not looked as if he had spent the last month in a nightmare. Once lavish clothing was now heavily soiled, and beautiful dark hair sat lank against his face.



"You know the mark?" Cosette prompted.



Collecting himself, he raised the knife again. "I don't fear them. I have friends, too, mademoiselle."



"Do you fear the name Gillenormand? Or perhaps Pontmercy?"



"Pontmercy…" A look darkened the shadow's face. "That brat, Marius?"



"Is my husband."



"You talk of ghosts too fondly, lady."



"My ghost is still living, shadow."



"Marius— he didn't— he escaped? The barricade?"



Cosette took one step forward, as disarming as she could make herself, then swatted her shadow's hand, swapping possession of the knife. She threw the knife out in the direction of the street, then while he was distracted by the maneuver, she dug about her person for her purse.



"I am short of time but rich in money," Cosette said. "You may have my whole purse if you let me free."



"I don't want your—" the shadow retreated into himself, pride colouring his voice. "That buffoon, your husband. Did anyone else…"



The shadow shook his head, as if to dispel a hopeful thought. 



"You are also looking for someone missing?"



"'Also'?" the shadow repeated, cautious.



"I am on a quest today."



"As am I."



"Then perhaps we might work out a deal," Cosette said, regaining her posture. She had some height on this shadow, and she used it now to her advantage. 



"I am about to walk into that police house and receive documentation on who was killed that night. Who survived."



"You can ask such things?"



"Yes, I have the privilege to do so. Is there a name you would like me to search for?"



"Jehan," the man said in a burst. "No, perhaps it would be written as Jean Prouvaire. He was an artist, he was at the barricade with your husband, led by a man named Enjolras, and he was a vampire. One of the oldest amongst them. He had — 

has

 southern features. Olive skin, dark, tight curls, long. He is about so height and freckled."



"I see." Cosette nodded, committing the description to memory. "And what may I refer to you as, Monsieur?"



The shadow searched Cosette's face, as if looking for the trick, but the boy clearly hadn't eaten for days and seemed too bone-weary to think. "Montparnasse."



"Montparnasse." Cosette offered her hand out, and after a moment, the man shook. "I will return here once I have completed my side of the mission." 



Once Cosette had released him, he played with the coin she had pressed into his palm. "In the meantime, will you buy us some bread, so we might take lunch together?"



-



Javert had spent a not-insignificant time in this particular morgue. When he was on active cases he would search the faces of corpses for criminals he'd been tracking, and he would be called to investigate bodies with odd puncture wounds, clearly not man-made.



He had not expected the smell to affect him, but he belatedly remembered that this was the first time he had returned here since his transformation into a being with superior senses.



Chemicals, death, piss, feces, blood, the sewage of the Seine, it really was a dungeon filled with a thick smog of the worst scents alive.



He typically disdained appearing weak in public, but had to clutch at the column on his way in to avoid keeling over in the entrance. After he'd taken a moment to collect himself, he straightened, pressing a handkerchief over his mouth and nose. It did very little, but the act of it allowed him to pretend like it was effective. 



The sooner this was over, the sooner he could clean the stench from his clothing. 



The crowd was thin at this hour as he had expected, as most 'visitors' preferred an after-lunch walk if their intention was not to find a lost loved one. At this time in the mid-afternoon, many had been called to second jobs or had procrastinated from their house duties for long enough. The few still remaining were mostly what constituted the staff of this place: morticians and cleaners who drifted through the cells and kept the mess at bay to the best of their ability. 



Javert took his time as he made his way past each cell, stopping and staring at each warped face on each slab. Javert inspected the bodies with a cool sense of disinterest. He no longer spooked at the sight of unseeing eyes, or bones poking through skin, or insides where they had no right to be on display. The dead were just that: dead. They could no more harm him than him them.



There were several faces from that evening he knew he would recognise on sight, but some of those who had been on the barricade had either been draped in shadow or had not passed through the room in which he had been imprisoned for long enough to afford him a solid impression. 



He had not expected to find a quarry here and, he admitted, he had hoped he wouldn't, given that the morgue was the last place any person wished to discover a lost loved one, so it was with the faint sense of a wasted hour that he scoured the last face of the last body.



He had rather tired of breathing through his mouth, and of squinting in the dark, and so was preparing to leave when he heard footsteps approach with an added clack of what Javert guessed to be a cane.



"Monsieur," a voice in the darkness said, "Might this belong to you?"



Javert turned to find a pocketbook — his pocketbook, being offered out to him. He patted his coat pocket, turned it inside out to find the ever-present hole in the bottom had become rather wider than he'd previously noticed. "I believe it is," Javert said, taking it and flicking through the pages to see his neat handwriting. "My thanks. I would be lost without it."



"I am glad to have returned it to its owner," the man said, and Javert could not help but to profile him: a mortician, short, so much so that Javert could not quite get a solid look of his features, eyes cast down as they were. He wore the smart clothes of a worker, and he leaned heavily on a cane, despite his fairly youthful voice. "I often find objects here, but the morgue is not a place people often return to."



"You have a lost and found, I assume?"



"Yes Monsieur."



"You might hand the items to the police, who would redistribute them for you."



The mortician made a half-shrug, clearly uncomfortable with the thought. "If no-one has come to collect for a month, I donate the items to the poor."



"Ah," Javert said, "I suppose that is a sufficient alternative." Considering the conversation over, Javert turned to leave again, only for the voice to raise again.



"You are looking for someone in particular?" On Javert's look, the man shrank into himself. "You do not strike me as a tourist."



"I am," Javert said. "Looking for someone."



"But you are not with the police? I have not seen you here before."



"You must be new, and I have recently retired. We have simply missed one another."



"That explains it," the man said with the voice of someone who clearly hates not having an answer to a puzzle. "Then I am glad you did not find who you were searching for. If you are not here on a case, you must be searching for a relative, and visitors like you are my least favourite to meet."



"You have witnessed heartbreak many times over."



The man nodded, clearly taken to a place beyond Javert's reach. 



"You seem to despise this place quite keenly," Javert observed. "Why work here?"



"I was not formally hired, as such," the man said distantly. "I had just come so often, and stayed so long, and corrected the previous mortician enough times that eventually I had his job."



"You are a doctor?"



"Not yet. A medical student. Until…"



"You came here to find a loved one of your own."



The man nodded. When he finally looked up, he did so to meet eyes with Javert deliberately. The man looked haunted, and he had, to Javert's displeasure, an achingly familiar face. "And when I found him, he had been riddled with enough bullets that not even my friends could help to revive him."



Javert could not find the strength to continue meeting those accusing eyes. His eyes dropped to the flagstones, weighed heavy with guilt. "Joly," Javert said, throat catching on the name.



"I would feel flattered you knew my name, if I was not aware that that meant you had reports on me through your spies. Come, a test for you, inspector Javert, do you know the name of the man I loved? Is it written in that pocketbook of yours?"



It was not, but only because Javert knew these insurrectionists and their relationship webs off by heart. He did not think Joly would want to hear this. "Bossuet," Javert said instead. 



Joly shuddered to hear the name on Javert's lips, and he clacked his cane on the floor as if to dissipate an urge to do something else, potentially something more violent. 



"Bossuet," Joly repeated. "I will never hear that man's laughter again, inspector. He laughed so brightly, his warmth outshone the very sun. I will never feel that warmth again, because of you."



Javert swallowed. "Yes."



"Yes? That is all you have to say?"



"No, but it is all you will want to hear. I could tell you I have regret, feel true remorse for the man I once was, the values I once upheld, but this will not bring your partner back. For that, I am sorry."



Before Joly could turn away, Javert thought he might as well play any card he had left. "I am looking for Enjolras." Javert expected the sudden guarded look that sparked across Joly's face, and so he did not back down. "Not as an agent of the police, but as an… interested party. A private investigator, hired by one who should like to know her brother."



Joly's brows met in a deep frown. "This is some sort of trick. Enjolras had no sister."



"Enjolras did not 

know 

he had a sister," Javert said, coating his words with as much humility as he could. "I wish to right this wrong."



-



For a long period of his life, the salon of Madame T— was all that Marius knew of the world. Surrounded by these imposing and ancient persons, he had looked around himself with grave amazement. These antique creatures, with their Old Testament names, ceased to exist as real beings to this child but grew to be phantoms. 



It was not long ago that Marius had discovered the truth of matters: that these ancient creatures were not old because he had been a young child looking at the elderly, but because they were orders of magnitude older than the very buildings around him. Older, perhaps, than the bible itself.



He had not returned to the salon since his transition into vampirehood, let alone since his marriage, and so Marius should have expected that his request to visit Madame T— would not be some covert affair.



The lady spared no expense on welcoming the prodigal child back into her salon, coaxing the young man to sit beside her and to regale her with all the stories she had missed in the years of his absence. To her, these years had been but the blink of an eye, but she still adored the dramatics of a young man exiled from his home, only to return a married man, and so she heaped praise and condemnation on him as he told his tale. 



"Oh my sweet," she would say, and the crowd would coo or sigh like her echo. "My, how terrible!" she would exclaim, and a dozen similar shouts of disbelief would sound around them. Marius was under no illusion that this was but a parlour show to these beings, no more or less investment than the latest piece of theatre, but he played his part, because he had far larger goals than simply to feed his own ego. 



Madame T— played the luxuriant host and the party queen, but Marius knew her true identity, sometimes glimpsed as a boy hid behind curtains. If a mouse chewed through a wall in Paris, Madame T— knew about it. If a man killed his wife, if a werewolf started a fight, if a vampire drained a human, Madame T was the first to know.



Javert was indeed correct to make use of Marius' upbringing within these walls. He knew how to play the game in order to extract favours, which begat answers. And so he told them his story, sparing no graphic detail, beginning with his last day in this very salon, finding he had a father after all but arriving by his deathbed too late to greet him, documenting his years in the slums of Paris, the rise and fall of the barricade, his meeting with his wife, and ending on his falsified desire, in his adulthood, to reconnect with his dearest vampire kin.



Marius sipped politely at a glass of blood, knowing better than to ask for its origins, and he smiled his way through story after story of hedonism and violence. He had long grown accustomed to turning his thinking brain off in environments such as this, letting his body react with the crowd, laughing and gasping on cue. It took very little to re-engage his muscles in this routine.



Marius was only aware that several hours had passed by his sudden realisation that the sun had come up. Several hangers-on were still gorging themselves on blood, stories or open displays of eroticism, but Marius was still rooted to his spot beside his host, smile fixed to his face as if cemented there.



They were alone, now, and as Marius came back to himself, Madame T's grin stretched. "There he is. Welcome back, my boy."



"I— my apologies, Madame, were you saying something?"



"Not for several hours now, child. But do not worry, I protected your shell while you retreated. Not a finger has touched my precious Marius."



Marius began to thaw at that, not knowing he had become quite so tense. 



"You have become a decent actor, my boy," Madame T— crowed, touching the back of her hand to Marius' cheek, her rings sharp and ice-cold on his features. "Have you considered trying the stage?"



"Madame will remember that I am but a humble lawyer. Not fit, I believe, for the stage."



"Then again, I hear they refuse to bury actors!" Madame T— said, "Now, whether this was last month or a century ago, I've no blasted clue. But perhaps it is good you are not an actor, ey? Wouldn't want to have to throw our dearest Marius in an unmarked pit!"



"No Madame," Marius agreed. "We would not."



"Come then, child, you danced a remarkable dance. How may Madame T— reward you?"



"I am looking for information, Madame. About Enjolras, or any of his associates. Perhaps Combeferre or Courfeyrac?"



"Come, child, did you not just tell me they had all perished on the barricade?"



"That is what I told 

them

. But perhaps Madame T— knows otherwise?"



"Hm, hm, perhaps she does!" Madame T— chuckled. "Tell me again, how beautiful is your wife, Marius?"



Any tension that had leached from Marius thundered through him tenfold, leaving him feeling sick with caution. "My wife, Madame?"



"Your wife, boy. She is as stunning as you describe, or a plain girl you made to be beautiful to please the room."



"She is beautiful, madame. But… but she…"



"Oh don't look so worried, my child! I am not asking for her sacrifice on my altar! I only wish to meet the poor lamb." 



"Madame…"



"My my! I never thought I would live to see the day that Marius Pontmercy could flavour his tone with warning! Oh look at you, my child, with your hackles up! Preparing yourself to fight me over your wife's virtue, ey?" Madame T laughed her hoarse laugh, then clapped Marius on the back. "You bring me your girl, and I'll give you all I know about those barricade boys of yours."



-



Valjean had noticed that there were less werewolves out patrolling the streets since the barricade. He wasn't sure why, but he assumed there must have been a large group of them who had joined a barricade, and who hadn't survived. Of the three communities who lived in Paris: human, vampire and wolf, the wolves were the minority, and they were (to Valjean's understanding), closely knit. A loss of even a dozen wolves was substantial in a way a hundred humans was not.



Valjean tried those corners he had often noted as being populated by wolves, but they seemed abandoned, taken over by human gangs. Valjean noted that the vampires had not swooped in to take these positions, but he supposed there was some pride in the vampires that prevented them from sitting on wolf remains.



After several days of this, Valjean was at his wit's end with the project. Deciding to take a break, he took himself to the river, planning on walking as much of the length of the Seine as he could manage before being required home for dinner.



Valjean enjoyed the mindless walk, simply gazing at the water, or watching the people on the bridges, docks and paths going about their daily business. He counted cobbles, and he investigated the metalwork of lampposts and the gates of residences, just taking in the world around him in a way he had never before been free to do.



Always looking over one shoulder leaves very little energy to notice the silver leaves painted into the railings, or the children playing leapfrog in the dirt, or the whorls created by the undercurrent of the river. 



It was as Valjean was doing this that he noticed two men tying a boat to a post underneath a bridge. This was not particularly unusual, other than for the fact that Valjean could not smell either of these two men. Valjean could smell the sweat of the man who'd last touchd the gate he'd just passed, could smell what the children playing leapfrog had last eaten, and yet he could not smell these two workers.



Valjean slowed his pace, then drifted towards them, more curious than anything. Were they just so freshly washed so as to be invisible to him? But even soap had a scent, and that was certainly not present here. 



Aware that he certainly looked quite mad for doing so, Valjean took a deep breath, aiming to catch what scent there should be, down-wind of the pair. 



His mind fried as he attempted to decipher the smell. Seine, river, sewage, Paris, feces, piss, men, human? vampire? wolf? Valjean rubbed his nose. No, it was not that these men were giving off 

no 

scent, it was that they smelt of Paris itself, masking their very presence. There was no individuality left about them. They smelt, rather disarmingly, like everything one would prevent one's self from investigating closer.  



Valjean could only applaud the ingenuity, and then descended the steps down to the riverside. 



-



It was carnage. 



Enjolras had never seen anything like this before. 



An overwhelming churn of gunfire and hot, white, death. Blood spilt everywhere, tacky and drying into his clothing. Stolen blue uniforms torn to provide linens for those whose gashes were more likely fatal than not.



It was, quite frankly, horrifying. 



He had had no time for petty feelings such as this before, not when his people looked to him for solidity. 



His people. His 

friends

. He had let them down, Enjolras knew. If he had had just one more day, one more week, one more month, what they might have been able to achieve. More notices in the factories, more shipments of bullets, more information about the police, about the National Guard. Anything to have steered the battle in their favour. 



'

They 

have integrated, 

you 

have not.'



It was a funny memory for his brain to unearth. Grantaire's voice, dripping with disdain at Enjolras' keeping himself so aloft from the rest of the revolution. For once, Grantaire had had a good point. Enjolras knew he was not so skilled in talking to people as people. He was a confident public speaker and knew how to turn the tide of emotion in a crowd, but the individual was a far harder target. 



Enjolras relied on his friends to speak to the people, to visit factories and inns and to spread the word, because Enjolras was incapable of doing so himself. He had once even sent Grantaire on such a mission, though it ended about as well as Enjolras knew it would.



But then — there— that. That disdain for Grantaire's methods. Perhaps if Enjolras had placed more trust in the man's humour, in his conversational ability, then perhaps they might not be in this position. What if Enjolras had accepted Grantaire at his imperfect best? Would they still be here, with carnage as their final battleground?



Enjolras winced as a bullet buried itself into the wooden beam beside his head, his ears long-ago traumatised by the pure sound of this battlefield. Enjolras was not sure who of his friends remained alive, nor did he know how many soldiers had overwhelmed this barricade.



He hoped that Grantaire had found somewhere safe to hide. He hoped that Grantaire had decided on a trip out into the country. Perhaps to the Black Forest, where he might yelp and scream and dance and box and paint to his heart's content. 



Enjolras smiled at the thought. He hoped that Grantaire would not be too angry that they had all left him this early. Grantaire would be sad, Enjolras thought, but he hoped that Grantaire would be able to move past it. Perhaps he would travel, and see a world Enjolras had never seen. Horizons and sunrises and buildings and songs and food Enjolras would never taste. That would be nice. Grantaire would enjoy that, Enjolras thought. And he would go to see the opera, too. That is what Enjolras hoped he had bought with his death: the right for Grantaire to have a night at the opera, in peace. 



Enjolras settled into his fighting stance in the second story of the Musain, listening as several of his allies had their lives cut short, huddling as they had been at the top of the staircase. They had been toppled by the thunderclap of an execution line, a half dozen guns going off as one. Not long now until this was over.



The door to the room burst open, and Enjolras barely prevented himself from pulling the trigger as he caught sight of who it was who had entered.



"Grantaire?"



"Enjolras!" Grantaire exclaimed happily, looking pleased as punch to have found him, and then he fell to his knees. "Ah."




Blood

, Enjolras' mind supplied, 

Injured. Shot. Bleeding. Badly. Organs, ruptured. Dying. Grantaire is dying.




"Always the wrong place, wrong time, huh," Grantaire said, hands pressing against the wound in his stomach. "Here I was, thinking that nobody would think to find me in the rafters of the very cafe we occupied, and yet here I wake to find a war has broken out in my basement! I should have expected one last cruel joke from our great creator."



Grantaire had already paled significantly, and Enjolras took a shaky step towards him. "No," Enjolras said, "No, Grantaire, you cannot die. I forbid it."



"Ah you mustn't look so hurt, my Apollo. You will ruin your image. You are made of marble, and marble does not cry."



Enjolras felt his very soul tear with these words. He had been marble: often because that was how he felt the most comfortable, but occassionally out of choice. Where Grantaire was concerned, it had often been the latter. It struck Enjolras, now, that he was unsure how often he had been nice to the man bleeding before him. Casual, even. A friend. 



Enjolras felt the strength leach from his legs, and he slipped to the floor, just in time to catch as Grantaire crumbled. Enjolras maneuvered the man so that he might use Enjolras' lap as a pillow.



"What a death bed!" Grantaire sighed, grinning up at him. "Perhaps I was wrong! This marble statue is padded indeed."



"Do not waste your breath so, Grantaire."



"Come, Apollo, this wound is nothing. I hardly feel it, with the amount of wine swimming within me!"




The wound — yes

! A wound, Enjolras had tools for that— 



Enjolras parted what clothing he could on Grantaire's stomach, fighting to push past the man's clutching hands. "Let me—" Enjolras used one hand to wipe away as much excess blood as was possible, using the other to pinch the flesh as closed as he could. Then he dipped his head, and prayed his young saliva would be powerful enough to work as he had seen. 



The wound being still so fresh, Enjolras found himself swallowing more blood than he'd feasted on in years. Enjolras wondered if he was the first of his kind to taste wolf blood. It was strong, almosty gamey. Warm and wineish, highly salted and fatty from Grantaire's last meal, it filled his stomach and made him feel— made him 

feel

. Feel in a way he had not in a long time. Even the tang of iron, which Enjolras usually winced at, felt rich as it coated his tongue.



It sated him, it intoxicated him. Enjolras could almost imagine how it felt to be Grantaire, warm and emboldened by the wine, belly full of fire and cheeks roaring with good humour--



It was with a start that Enjolras pulled himself back, physically preventing himself from gorging himself further.



Panting, horrified with himself, he sought Grantaire's eyes, to find the man looking absolutely bewildered. 



"Wow," Grantaire said, strangely breathless. "I, for one, did not expect to have to apologise that your last meal would be this mangey mutt's!"



Enjolras shook his head, wide-eyed. "It— you taste—" 

divine

, he could not bring himself to say. 



"Well, doctor? What's the outlook?"



Enjolras blinked, reminded of the purpose of this discovery. His fingers pulled apart the fabric, and his stomach fell. It was no longer a well of blood, but it had not closed as Enjolras had desired it to. The skin was shredded, and he could see the shards of metal pitted in Grantaire's muscle. To try again would fuse the flesh over the shrapnel.



Enjolras swallowed. 

He will die. We both will.




"Ah," Grantaire said, relaxing further into Enjolras' lap. "Too bad. But perhaps this is a kindness. I had always expected to fall into that great sleep in far worse circumstances than this. I cannot complain." Grantaire took a long breath, and Enjolras could hear how he struggled to do so. "Enjolras, will you do a dying man a favour?"



"You will not die, Grantaire. I tell you I refuse to allow it."



"That is not a yes."



"...Yes, Grantaire, anything you wish."



"This rather feels like cheating, but without the time for prolonging this courtship, I suppose beggars cannot be choosers. It has been my wish for a long time to know what your lips would feel like against mine, and —"



Enjolras pressed a kiss to his, stilling the man first in fear, then in confusion, and finally in delight. Grantaire lifted his hand to grasp at the back of Enjolras' head, pressing softly.



As he felt the dying man's lips against his, the part of Enjolras attuned to such things remained aware of Grantaire's fading heartbeat.



"Grantaire," Enjolras said slowly, his forehead touched to Grantaire's, a half-formed idea worming into his head. "You must listen to me. If I asked you to live, would you? Would you want to? To have eternal life?"



"Eternity spent looking upon your face would be better than any heaven indeed," Grantaire said in a sing-song voice characteristic of a person who has lost too much blood.



"A straight answer, please, my friend. Do you understand what I am offering you?"



"Not one jot!"



"I cannot guarantee it will work on you, but if it is worth trying…"



-



Feuilly did not fully register the shot behind him, his mind now so immune to the gunfire surrounding him. It took him a moment to know that he had not been injured, and then he wheeled, spotted the soldier, and landed a shot to the soldier's neck.



Feuilly's mind had long numbed itself to the sickness he felt in taking these men's lives. He barely felt aware, the world smudging around him. 



Dimly, he felt a tug at his leg, and looked down to see a hand tugging at the ankle of his trouser. 



His first thought was to kick at it, to shake the dying person preventing his movement off of him, but the hand, the sleeve, the vest, led his eyes to a familiar face.



"Bossuet?"



"Feuilly, my dear friend!" Bossuet gave a small wave, looking more like a man bathing in the sun outside a cafe than a man whose guts were currently dyeing the wooden flooring a deep reddish black. If it were not already obvious that this man's life was nearly finished, the smog of black smoke rising from his holy water-charred flesh would put an end to any doubt.



Feuilly sank to the floor, kneeling beside his friend.



"I am glad to have caught you my dearest Feuilly. Are you currently indisposed?"



"I have some time," Feuilly said, boarding the joke. 



"That is good. I feared I might die here without an adequate conversation partner."



"Waste your breath not, Lesgles. We'll soon get you patched up."



"Just my luck, hey." Bossuet grinned as he gestured the scattering of holes about his waistcoat, a man utterly unconvinced. "I have two favours to ask of you. Will you hear them?"



Feuilly allowed his tears to spill freely. "Of course."



"First, you convey to my two loves, at your soonest convenience, my everlasting affection for them. Tell them my only regret is not kissing their brows one last time. Second, you are to go to Courfeyrac, and you are to tell him that the money he earned in that bet is to be spent on our Musichetta's child. Yes? The child will have one father, if God wills, but if it is within my power, our child will have a godfather as rich as Creusus." 



Feuilly took Bossuet's hand in his. "I do not know if I will be available to pass these messages along, my friend."



Bossuet shook his head. "Then you must find a way. Do what I cannot do, my dear, and leave this place."



"But you have fallen, friend. I cannot in good conscience attempt to leave now."



"Ah, what a cruel man! So you will not do as a dying friend wills?"



"Bossuet, I have made my peace with our sacrifice here, just as you."



"Your male pride is too great to hear my request, I see."



"Pride?" Feuilly repeated, aghast. "No! I die for the cause!"



"Do you think the bodycount will be what turns the tide of change?"



"I think it will affect how people see us. Not as silly boys abandoning a momentary cause, but people willing to die for it."



"There will be no next time if you perish here. Is that not worth more?" Bossuet smiled a tired sigh, squeezing Feuilly's hands lightly. "But do not think too hard on my account, my friend. Leave if you can, stay if you must."



Feuilly touched his palm to his friend's face, stroking softly. "You are a marvellous person, Lesgles."



"You know what?" Bossuet said, closing his eyes with a light expression. "I believe I am."



Feuilly laughed, sadly, watching the last of his good friend's life leave his body. "Good night, and sleep well."



-



In hindsight, Valjean thought with some baleful humour, he should have called for back-up. 



Admittedly, he had led the majority of his life until now sure of his ability not to be snuck up on, and so this was not something he was particularly on his guard about. The Javert who lived in his head did of course berate him for this, pointing to the fact that he had learnt about the figures he could not sense not three minutes before he was bashed over the head and made unconscious by them.



Javert would not be happy when he heard about this. 



If he heard about this.



Valjean tested the shackles binding him to the walls and floor. Solid, and made for those as strong as he. He sat in silence for a few long minutes, attempting to hear the sound of a street or a river, but no such sound came. They were either in the countryside or deep below ground. Potentially both.



Meditating so, Valjean immediately went on high alert as he smelled his daughter in the air, approaching— 



But no, not his daughter. 



Very, very similar to her. 



So similar, and yet—



Valjean frowned as a man walked into the room. He made it halfway to sitting on the bed opposite, before doing a double take and coming to a stop in front of Valjean. 



"We have a prisoner," the man said, as if this was new to him. "Hello."



"Hello," Valjean replied, just as bemused by this man as he seemed to be at finding Valjean here.



"You'll forgive my surprise," the man said, looking around himself. "Only, this morning this room was my bedroom, and in my absense it seems to have become a cell."



"I would apologise," Valjean said, "Though I fear I do not know why I am being kept here either."



"What a polite guest!" the man cried. "Do you have a name, prisoner?"



"My name is Jean, and I would be very much indebted to you if you refrained from referring to me as 'prisoner'."



The man scanned him, taking in the scars about his wrists and chest, and nodded. "My apologies, Jean." The man rooted around in a crate for a moment before pulling out a bottle. "Would you care for some wine, monsieur?"



"Would your friends not berate you for granting me such a boon?"



"They berate me for almost everything I do, Jean, you should not trouble yourself on my account."



The man brought the bottle to Valjean's lips and tipped it lightly for him, allowing him to drink at a slow pace. He even brought his shirtsleeve to Valjean's mouth to wipe the excess.



"Thank you, friend," Valjean said, the liquid welcome even if his body no longer became parched. "May I ask for your name?"



"Ah, you may ask, but unfortunately I have been commanded not to say these things to strangers." The man considered the bottle for a moment, and then smiled. "But if you would like a name, you may call me Dionysus."



Jean snorted. "It is nice to be young, huh! To say these things with confidence!"



"I don't know about young, Monsieur, I am just uncommonly vain."



Jean allowed himself to grin at this, and they shared another sip in camaraderie.



"So, Jean. You say you have no idea why you are being kept here?"



"Well, it is likely because I should not have been following your friends."



"Yes, that would make them quite suspicious of your intentions. Out of interest, why were you following them?"



"Your smell," Jean said. "Your smell is so curious."



"And here I thought you were so polite!" his Dionysus said, lifting an arm to take a sniff of his own armpit. "Perhaps you're right, a bath may be in order!"



Valjean smiled, but the shift of topic had led him to regain his focus. This man, he smelled… not like Cosette, but like a ghost of her. 



"Are you Enjolras?"



Dionysus choked, inhaling the wine he had just been about to drink. As he choked, he laughed, as if these words were uncommonly funny. Still attempting to clear the liquid from his airways, the man garbled out: "How do you know that name, friend?"



"I am looking for him, and you smell…" Valjean frowned. "And yet, you look not as I imagine him to look." This man could, perhaps, be Cosette's sibling, with features that matched more than Valjean's did with his daughter's, but to be her twin… that struck him as unlikely. 



"I am certainly not Enjolras," Dionysus confirmed. "But you are correct in that I have some of him in me."



Valjean tilted his head, confused by this statement. He considered scenting the room once more, but thought that may come across as rude. Then, attempting to keep a look of horror from bubbling to his face, Valjean asked: "Did you… consume him?"



This set Dionysus off in hysterics once more, which only served to double Valjean's confusion. "I apologise, is that a prejudiced thing to ask of a wolf?"



"I think any wolf in Paris would have been more than happy to have torn a vampire of Enjolras' line from limb to limb." Despite the violence of the words, it seemed like Valjean had not offended the man. 



"Do you know, Dionysus, what has happened to the wolves of Paris? Are they residing here too?"



"What makes you think I would know, Monsieur?"



Valjean blinked in surprise. "My apologies, I had just assumed…" Valjean stopped himself. "I assumed you were werewolf, but that is not the case?"



Dionysus did not move, watching Jean with an indecipherable smile. 



"What was it you wanted from the wolves?"



"I am just concerned. I had noted the lack of presence, recently, and I wondered if there was anything I could do to help."



"To… help?"



"Forgive me if that's an insensitive thing to say. I just… I give alms to humans who are in need, and wondered what I might do for my wolven kin too."



"Wolven kin, huh." Grantaire sat back on his bad. "You are a funny one, Jean."



"How so?" 



"You are imprisoned here for who knows what, and yet you utter such words that would make my friends wet their pants with desire. You find yourself captured by people you do not know and you say names that are not supposed to be whispered within the walls. So you see, I find you funny."



"Enjolras, he is here?"



Dionysus took a long drag of wine, then stood and left in silence.



-



Javert glanced at the clock on the mantelpiece. He confirmed it had been exactly sixty seconds since the last time he had looked at the time. 



It was late. 



Or, rather, it was early in the morning, for two AM had just ticked past. 



He was the only one who had returned from his mission, and he was gripped with the feeling that everything had gone wrong at once, and this was entirely his lack of foreplanning. Marius. Cosette. Valjean. Each had gone to investigate a separate task on the same night. Which should he chase first?



He cared least for the boy, and knew he would fare worst with the company he was supposed to be keeping, but that was no excuse not to go.



Cosette seemed like the most obvious choice, being the only human amongst them and last seen in an environment that Javert was supposedly most familiar with.



Valjean was… he was strong, and intelligent, more than able to hold his own, and yet Javert's heart tugged in that direction.



Marius was likely the one to need the most physical backup. Valjean would murder Javert in cold blood should anything have happened to his daughter. Javert's soul was inextricably bound to Valjean's.



And so he stared at the clock, slumped in his chair, paralysed by indecision. Every second gone was a second that the three of them could be being bled dry, torn to pieces, drowned in the Seine, and yet here Javert was. Sitting. Waiting. 




Damn you! 

His internal voice screamed. It was unclear whether that scream was addressed to the three missing people, the circumstances, to God or to himself. 

Damn, damn, damn!




It seemed like the more he told himself to stand, the more his body froze, the very skin of his body molding with the wood of the chair, his clothes filled with weights. The air in the room turned to mud, hardly let him breathe. 

Stand, damn you! 




He should go to Cosette's side. She had been the only one visiting creatures of the day, whereas it was feasible that Valjean and Marius's missions would span the nocturnal. And yet, he could not walk into the police headquarters: physically and now, mentally.



If he found Marius first, they could rouse a search party for the lady. If he found Valjean first, they wouldn't need one. 



Javert was not a man of tears, had only cried a handful of times in his life, and yet he felt overwhelmed by his frustration; trapped here in a prison of his mind's own creation. What use was he, huh? What good was he, alive, if he could not just simply make decisions? Could not help? Could not investigate? 



A knock on the door cut through this inner maelstrom, and Javert almost cried out in relief as he allowed the sound to move his body to standing. "Enter."



Only as the man entered did Javert's senses return to himself, and so it was with some considerable surprise that he found himself face to face with Bahorel.



The scent and sound that whirled around this man were almost as great a surprise as his face: he smelled impossible. 



"You are—"



"I am more surprised to find 

you 

are, Inspector."



"No, not Inspector. Just Javert."



Bahorel gave him a considering look. "Which came first, an abandonment of the prefecture or an abandonment of humanity?"



"They were rather more simultaneous than I imagine your decisions were." 



Bahorel nodded. "Perhaps that is the problem with hiring any old orphan you find on the street, you never know when we'll get a better deal."



Javert thought about this for a moment, then gave a small shrug. "If I had hired extremists like myself, you would not be gracing me with your company today, so perhaps that was one decision in my life you will not despise me for."



Bahorel grinned at that. "I cannot disagree with the logic!"



"And Feuilly?"



Bahorel nodded: fond, relieved, heartbroken. Another casualty of survivor's guilt. He took a deep breath, and then returned his face to a version of its regular humour.



"You will forgive me for visiting you at such an unpersonable hour."



"Not at all. As you see, you have not woken me, and I rather thank you for the distraction. Is there something I can do for you?"



"I came to return these to you, Monsieur." 



Javert glanced down at the two pieces of card that had been deposited on his desk. 



Identity cards. The very same Javert had handed his spies the night before the barricade, one for himself and one for Feuilly. A way to leave, should they find themselves trapped. The cards were dirty, caked in mud, blood and gunpowder. 



"So you walked out," Javert said, attempting to keep his tone neutral.



Bahorel nodded. It had clearly not been a simple decision, nor one he wished to talk about with the likes of Javert.



"How did you find me here?"



"We have a rota for watching our friends," Bahorel said. "No harm will come to any of us again."



"I see." 



Javert thought, with a shudder, how he had led this man directly to Valjean's home. How rusty he had become to not even have noticed that he had been tailed.



"Do not be so alarmed, I have not come here to enact revenge."



Javert had not imagined Bahorel was here on a death strike, but it was nice to have the confirmation anyway. 



"Joly tells me you are looking for Enjolras."



Javert nodded. Deciding it was simpler to show, not tell, he rooted around in his desk and removed the portraits Cosette had had drawn up. "You have similar senses to me, I would imagine. You can smell him here, no? But different, slightly."



Bahorel confirmed this, eyes roaming across the faces before him. Javert then removed his snuff box, popping the lid and displaying the very similar painting displayed there. "This is the wife of Marius Pontmercy."



Bahorel gaped as he looked between the pair. "What an uncanny resemblence! She could be his twin!" he said, before glancing up at Javert. 



"

Oh.

" 



-



As Marius wandered home in the foggy dawn gloom, he was not expecting to find his Cosette sat in the garden of the old apartment at number 7 rue de 'l Homme-Arme, nor indeed with a strange human man.



He unlocked the gate and watched, for a moment, a perverted echo of his younger self, sneaking into this very garden to whisper sweet nothings with his now-wife. This other man stunk of a man who has not had the opportunity to wash or change his clothes in a good while, his blood thin and unappetisingly malnutritious.



"I have returned, my wife."



Cosette turned, and on seeing him beamed. "My dear, welcome home! Did you have a productive evening?"



"Not as productive as previously hoped." Marius focused his eyes on Montparnasse, who levelled a grin back in his direction.



"This is my associate, Montparnasse. I believe you know one another?"



Marius frowned, trying to place the man. "No, I don't believe we do?"



Montparnasse rolled his eyes. "Head forever in the clouds. Why on earth would a lady like yourself marry an imbecile like this?"



Embarrassment, jealousy and guilt sparked through Marius as he watched Cosette fondly pat this stranger's arm.



"Now, now, 'Parnasse, my Marius' brain is filled with splendid ideas, and his heart is full of love, which often makes him rather unobservant." 



"I did not know my wife kept company with people like 

yourself

," Marius said in return.



"Marius!" Cosette admonished. "What sort of tone is that? What do you mean by these insinuations?"



"But… he…"



"I seem to remember a man in very similar clothing, and with very similar estate, climb these fences before, and I spoke to him as an equal, did I not?"



Marius lowered his eyes, nodding. 



"My apologies, 'Parnasse. I am trying to teach him, but I am clearly not working hard enough."



"It's fine," Montparnasse dismissed. "You need not worry oh Baron. I am not here to steal away your pretty wife. My desires lie squarely elsewhere, if nothing else."



The way he said these words reminded Marius of a night, many moons ago, in which Marius had drifted into the cafe Musain only to find himself met with his friends stood in a circle. When Marius had inspected further, his friends all seemed occupied with easels and, with a raised eyebrow, he had finally noted that the model they each drew lay in the centre wearing nothing but a fig leaf.



Marius coloured at the memory. He had barely glanced the model's face then, but he recognised him to be Jehan's muse. This had been rather early into his acquaintance with the friends of the ABC, and he had thought it all a rather based passtime, so had left before he could find himself wrapped up in it all.



"My most humble apologies," Marius said, dipping his head now that he could quite confirm that the man was no longer a threat to his happy marriage. 



Montparnasse rolled his eyes again, uttering a low "Whatever." 



"Ah, so you found Montparnasse, who must know whether—" Marius came to a standstill as Cosette shook her head. Montparnasse looked away, hurt plain across his face. 



"Jehan is dead," Montparnasse said, matter of fact. It was clear that he forced himself to say the words, as if saying them would make the pain end sooner.



"I see. That is…" Marius bit his lip. He had long-since grieved his friends, but he had not know Jehan as well as he had others. "The world will not recover from the loss of this artist."



"No," Montparnasse agreed. "I was telling your wife that… well. There are several paintings that may be of interest to you, if you wanted to see them."



"You have access to his studio?"



"I have been paying the rent on it, because I thought there was no-one else to do so. Hence," Montparnasse said, indicating his state of disrepair. "Jehan had a budget and a source of income that I do not."



"You could have sold his paintings!" Marius cried. "Surely he would have rathered that than your starving yourself!"



"Which of Cosette's possessions would you sell first, 

Baron

," Montparnasse said bitterly. "Perhaps the hairpins? Or maybe her eggshell dress? Come, you have been hungry once. What is a handkerchief but the price of a sip of blood?"



Marius felt himself fill with that sense of shame once again. It had not been so long ago that he had fought for every crust of bread, had had to subside on less-than-nothing in order to survive, and he was able to do so because his body did not require heat, nor bread. He imagined himself back in that rented room, and wondered how desperate he would have to become to have sold any possession of Cosette's he had. 



He would likely have rather died.



"But we no longer have to think like this, do we, Montparnasse," Cosette said softly, one hand coming to touch the man's back. "Husband, I was thinking we might become the patrons of an artist's gallery."



Marius nodded. He had no words for how thankful he was to have a wife with her head so firmly attached to her shoulders.



"And to other matters at hand," Cosette continued. "The list of names I was given by our Javert's ex-colleagues is a rather inconclusive one. There are several confirmed names of those dead: namely Jehan, Bossuet, Éponine, Gavroche. The report noted the disappearance of the spies Javert, Feuilly and Bahorel, and the soldiers could not find the remains of Enjolras, Joly, Grantaire, Courfeyrac or Combeferre. They were not sure whether that was simply because their being undead meant they had turned to ash in the assault." 



"So Grantaire was correct, then, about Feuilly being the spy," Marius said to himself. The pair of humans really had pulled the wool over their eyes. To have even joined the barricade, only to escape once it had met its demise… Marius felt a cool hatred settle over him. If he ever saw those cowards again—!



"So you did not gain any information at your Madame T—'s salon?"



"She knows something, but… she asked for something I would rather not give her."



"Not even for my sake, my dear?" 



"It is for your sake that I am worried, my sweet." 



"She wishes me harm?"



Marius shook his head gloomily, knowing he was about to lose this conversation. "She wishes to make your acquaintance."



-



When Grantaire awoke, he was quite unsurprised to find himself in purgatory, and that purgatory smelled exactly like the Parisian sewer system. 



It was dark, dank and there was an ever-present drip just to the left of his head. 



Though he wasn’t exactly pleased to find himself barred from the pearly gates, he did find some comfort in the fact that all of his aches and pains seemed to have been cleared from his roster. His sore eyes, his shredded throat, his ever-present belly aches, all gone.



The percussion in this place was also playing havoc on his senses, because it seemed as if he could hear rats from several miles away, and see every lichen growing into the brick above his head.



He rolled himself upright and took a look around. He was in a bedroom, or what constituted one, and he was wearing his absolutely shredded last outfit. The shirt over his stomach looked like he’d poured a bucket of blood over himself, and the edges of it stuck unpleasantly to his skin. He scratched at the fabric, noting that the wound itself was no longer visible — not even a scar to remember his death by. 



There was a soft knock on the door he had not realised there was, and he bid his visitor welcome.



“Oh, no,” Grantaire said with immeasurable sadness as he recognised who had entered. “Not you, too.”



Enjolras closed his mouth. “My apologies. I can leave if you do not want me here.”



“You’re saying I can control who I spend my time here with?”



“Of course you can. We’re not holding you prisoner.”



“Is purgatory not a kind of prison?”



Enjolras frowned, as if trying to parse Grantaire’s words. “This isn’t purgatory, Grantaire.”



“Oh you’re a cruel jailor if you think you can have me believe I survived that hellish place only to end up in hell itself!” 



Enjolras approached, cautious sitting beside Grantaire on the bed. Much to Grantaire’s astoundment, this angel took his hand between his own. “This isn’t hell, either.”



“I made it to heaven?”



Enjolras snorted. “No, Grantaire. Not yet. You did not die.”



Grantaire frowned, then looked back down at his stomach, half expecting to find that he had hallucinated his non-injured belly. But no, it remained its hairy, non-torn self. “Huh.”



“You do not remember?”



Grantaire shook his head. He remembered pain, and he had dreamt something he thought inappropriate to mention to Enjolras.



Enjolras sighed. 

I’ve done something wrong. 

It was a usual assumption that Grantaire made when Enjolras sighed, though this time Grantaire could not work out what it was he had done to vex the man. “Did I do something bad?”



“No! No, Grantaire, it is I who I sigh for, not you.”



“Oh.” Grantaire wasn’t sure what was happening, but supposed that since Enjolras still wrapped his hand with his own, he might as well take advantage of this and squeezed in a way he hoped conveyed strength. “Well, if it’s anything to do with me, I would say it’s fair to call us square. I have annoyed you enough in my life that you would have to do something fairly apocalyptic to make me even bat an eyelid.”



Enjolras nodded, but his lips remained sealed. 



“Did you hurt someone?” Another nod. “Kill someone?” Nod. “Kill someone close to me?” A nod, and this one sank a stone in Grantaire’s stomach. Éponine— no, he had watched her die in Pontmercy’s arms. “Musichetta?”



At this, Enjolras shook his head, turning his eyes on Grantaire to convey the woman’s safety. “No, Grantaire. It— I — you. I 

turned

 you.”



“Turned me? Into what?” Grantaire asked, before the words caught up to himself and everything came to him in a rush. 



Grantaire thought about his claws, and they came as they usually did. He thought about his ears, his tail, and then he was stood on the bed with four legs rather than two. He circled himself, but everything seemed to be as wolf-y as it had been on his last turn.



He shifted back, staring at the backs of his hands. They looked human to him—



“Ah, Grantaire,” Enjolras said, now looking at the ceiling. “Your, er, clothing.”



Grantaire looked down at himself, momentarily not understanding what was wrong, until the human part of him caught up with the wolf, and he snorted. “Right! My apologies for tainting your eyes with my manhood, oh chaste one!”



Grantaire pulled on his trousers and what remained of his shirt, leaving the rest to the floor. “Well Enjolras, it seems like your powers were no match for mine. I remain a werewolf!” 



“That’s the thing,” Enjolras said, sheepish. Then, in a blink, the man was gone, replaced with a very, very groomed wolf. It had beautiful thick fur, the hair turning from black to grey to tan from back to belly in distinct and regal progression. It was almost ridiculously pedigree. When Grantaire extended a hand to the wolf’s belly, the hair was soft, almost downy, nothing like the coarse, often matted fur of those Grantaire had grown up with.



“What in the everloving hell,” Grantaire said, absolutely refusing to look away as Enjolras shifted to human again, mentally prepared and already elegantly shielding his own privacy before reclothing himself. “How— what—”



Enjolras pulled a small bottle from his pocket, then uncorked it. 




Blood

, Grantaire’s mind provided. 

30s, healthy, male, well-fed, good eating.





Good eating

?



Grantaire made a pained noise as his teeth grew in his mouth— not the full set that being a wolf allowed him, just the two canines. 



He touched them with his knuckle, astounded. 



“I— what am I?”



“It appears that we have, er, pioneered a new chapter in wolf-vampire relations,” Enjolras said, looking just as lost as Grantaire was feeling. 



Grantaire blinked, then with a shock, realised that he no longer had a pulse. It was an eerie feeling, sticking his hands to his wrist and waiting for the beat. “I’m dead?”



Enjolras shook his head. “No, listen.”



Grantaire closed his eyes this time and waited, this time placing his palm on his neck. After a long, long moment, there was one thud, followed by its twin.



Grantaire frowned, concentrating to make sure he had heard it right. Ba-dump. Ba-dump.



It was not the heartbeat of a wolf, human, and certainly not that of a vampire’s. “Huh.”



Enjolras held his hand out, taking Grantaire’s palm from his neck and placing it upon Enjolras’ heart instead. “What are you—” ba-dump. 



Grantaire scooted back on the bed as if burnt. “What the— you— How?!”



When Enjolras grinned, it was like Grantaire was staring in the face of the sun itself. “You, Grantaire. You gave me back my heart.”



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Combeferre hummed as he rocked back and forth in the chair rented to him. 



This song was not for himself but for his audience of one, nestled neatly in his lap. The hatchling was merely months out of its mother’s womb and so for most of the day it simply slept, and Combeferre kept watch. He could not provide the child any warmth, and so he was typically enshrined in a thick layer of padding, making it very hard to do little else. 



He did not mind this, as it gave him time to simply exist, and to watch the little one sleep. 



Madame T— had bid him here this morning, and so he had acquiesced, caring little whether his little one’s nap happened here or in any other building in Paris. He had been set up in this side room, away from last night’s salon, and wondered very little about the reason he had been called here until he began to hear doors below open, and four sets of feet ascend towards him.



Marius, Montparnasse, Madame T— and… a curious stranger. Combeferre settled a serene smile upon his face as the door opened, and Marius entered almost at a trot, bee-lining straight for him. 



"My friend," Marius cried as he sank into Combeferre's embrace. "Oh my friend, I thought I would never be so lucky as to see such a dear sight again."



“Hush, Marius,” Combeferre chided softly, protecting his charge from Marius’ crushing hug. “You will wake the little one.” 



Marius blinked and pulled back, startled to notice the baby Combeferre carried. “Marius, meet your nephew: L'Aigle the younger. Baby eagle, meet your latest additions to your family.”



Marius gaped at the child, then sank to shower it in kisses. The child, being so good, did not rouse from sleep by Marius’ ministrations. 



Marius turned his huge eyes on Combeferre. “Musichetta, Joly…” 



Combeferre bounced the bundle on his knee. “They are safe, but at work. As such, I have been elevated to grandfather.”



“Grandfather!” Marius cried, heaping another bout of kisses on the child’s cheeks. “How lucky you are!” 



“Yes,” Combeferre agreed. “Here, Marius.” Combeferre extracted himself from his mountain of padding and sat Marius in it, placing the baby in the doting Marius’ lap. Immediately enamoured, Marius did not pay attention as Combeferre approached the others, standing in the doorway.



“Montparnasse,” he said, extending a hand that the man did not shake. “Thank you. For taking care of our Prouvaire’s home.”



“You knew?”



Combeferre nodded. “We have had discussions on whether to approach you but… some members suggested we might watch, to see whose company you continued to keep.”



Montparnasse’s jaw set in a tight line, misery at war with anger. “And in your infinite kindness, you chose to do nothing.”



“You are not the only one to have experienced loss, and should your conservatorship of Jehan’s belongings been a trap, we would have suffered additional injuries we did not wish to risk. But I thank you all the same, and I assume, by your presence here, that you have chosen to make new friends.”



With that, he turned to the young lady. “My apologies for my rudeness in not acknowledging you first, Baroness.” Combeferre took the offered hand and graced it with a kiss. “I have heard much about you.”



“You watched us, too?”



“No.” Combeferre sighed. “No, this is a much longer tale that should be accompanied with tea.”



-



Enjolras frowned as he walked through the hallways of this new home they had made for themselves. There were new scents to the air. Most notable was a perfume he was more than sure none of his comrades wore, and the high fragrance of it went against their new aim of stealth. If it was Bahorel or, perhaps, Grantaire playing a prank, he would have to have words with them.



The other, less dramatic smell was a more curious one. He could smell a ghost of himself underneath the perfume. It was not quite the same way as how those he'd turned came to smell like him, for that was more auxiliary. This felt deeper, more intrinsic to their personhood. 



Enjolras entered the room, and immediately stilled.



For a long moment, his brain wondered at when his fellows had had the time to install a full-length mirror to this room, and why it seemed to be a trick one, for it displayed an image of himself from years past. 



Enjolras patted at his trousers, then head, confirming to himself that he had not clothed himself in an ornate dress and done his hair in a fancy do while he wasn't aware.



The mirror image moved too, almost in mimicry of him, touching at its own cheek and breast, as if confirming itself a seperate entity. 



And the 

smell

. This mirage was the source of the perfume, but its— 

her

 blood… 



"Enjolras," the mirage said in a gasp, before dashing forward and embracing him in a vice-like hug. 



Enjolras could not find words for a long moment, and when he did they came out in a whisper. "I am at a loss, Mademoiselle, you seem to know my name but I know not yours."



"Cosette," the young woman replied, "But from now on you must call me 'sister'."



-



While his wife went down below to meet Enjolras, Marius was taken out of a separate exit. This exit led into a back garden, which entered a street, which led to a graveyard. It seemed to be a private estate, with very few graves. Most were old, several were fresh.



Bossuet, Jean Prouvaire, Éponine, Gavroche and Courfeyrac lay to rest here. 



Marius found himself sitting in the grass beside their graves, feeling empty. 



Did his friends now lie beneath his feet? Was that all their lives came to? All five of them, so big in life, so quiet now in death.



The air was cold, it turned his skin an almost-blue.



He did not care. He simply sat.



-



Montparnasse had followed Cosette and her fool of a husband into the tunnels, having nothing better to do and not wanting to be left behind, now that he had made one ally.



The Baroness had gone off to find her brother, and Marius had gone to see graves Montparnasse would rather starve than greet. Even the baby had other urgent matters to attend to, passed as it was to its returning mother.



Which left him in Combeferre’s custody.



“Do you have a moment?” Combeferre had asked, as if Montparnasse’s schedule was full to bursting.



“Sure. You have a place I can smoke?”



Combeferre nodded, and Montparnasse silently trailed after him. Combeferre brought him through some winding tunnels, until they found a place to ascend. They climbed through what appeared to be an abandoned building, rising and rising through several floors until they had made their way out onto a roof.



After the dimness of the tunnels, Montparnasse was momentarily blinded by the light of the sunset. Only once he had acclimatised did he take in the whole of the view. It was, quite simply, spectacular. He felt as if he could see the whole of France, from up here. The sun settled over the buildings in a blanket of red and orange, as if casting the whole damned place in gold.



Montparnasse had never felt pride in this place. He existed in it, rattled around in it, was spat out by it. He was a Parisian not by choice but by circumstance. It was easy to forget that long-held spite when you were so high above the stink of it. 



“Every time I start to hate this place,” Combeferre said, leaning on the parapet, “It does this, and I fall back in love.”



“You took the words out of my head, old man.” Montparnasse delved into his pocket, finding the clay pipe he’d bought with the bread money Cosette had given him earlier. He looked about them, noting with some displeasure that this abandoned rooftop had no lit flame with which to light his tobacco. “I seem to remember asking for a place where I could smoke.”



Combeferre smiled into the fading sunlight. “You could, feasibly, smoke here. There is nobody stopping you.”



“Except the lack of a fireplace.”



“You may light a fire if you wish.”



Montparnasse rolled his eyes. This was a good reminder why he was better off alone. He’d had enough of smart-arse men with smart-arse replies. He shoved the unlit pipe into his mouth and chewed on it instead.



The pair continued to watch the sun set in silence, until Montparnasse had to shove his fingers under his armpits to prevent their going numb in the quick-setting cold.



Combeferre made an exaggerated sniffing sound, then pointed out to a road a few streets away. “I found you a lit flame.”



Montparnasse barely restrained himself from rolling his eyes again as he glanced down to find a group of guards lighting a brazier.



The smoke of it did eventually rise to them, as did the crack and pop of the burning wood. He could admit that it was a nice backdrop for his melancholic mood. The smell of the burning wood was so much more floral than the coal he’d come to huddle around. The coal kept him warm, but the wood reminded him that fire was life, not just survival.



Montparnasse inhaled the smoke and kept it in his lungs for a touch longer than necessary, relishing the sting of it. 



“You and I,” he said to Combeferre as he exhaled. “We lost.”



Combeferre did not look in his direction, simply gripped at the stone parapet hard enough that Montparnasse saw the stone crumble under his fingers. “...Yes.”



“Them lot, down there. Doesn’t it piss you off to be around them? To see them so happy?”



“I don’t know if you noticed, Montparnasse, but I volunteered to sit in silence with the baby.”



“Babies laugh too.”



“True. But I can’t hold that against it like I can with the parents.”



Montparnasse spun the pipe between his fingers. Even without supernatural hearing, the sound of laughter drifted through the city and rose to him. He flicked the pipe to the ground, just to hear it crack.  “How many times you been through this shit?”



“Too many.”



“How many more times you going to do it before you put a bullet through your own head?”



Combeferre stood stock still, watching the skyline. Montparnasse watched him. Despite the ever-present anger, he couldn’t help marvelling at how, despite the stillness, this man looked not like a statue, or a mountain, or any thing unliving, but how he appeared to be a living ancient, akin to some great oak. 



He emanated peace in a way Montparnasse had never experienced. He imagined that this was how it felt to be stood in the centre of an expansive forest: no city, no human for miles and miles. Just the fresh air, the wind in the trees, the moss underfoot.



Montparnasse knew, in that moment, that he was beside a magnificent person. It made him ache, this feeling. 



It infuriated him.



Eventually, Combeferre sighed. “As many more times as it takes, I suppose.”



“Until what? The world is 

free

? Nothing ever changes.”



Combeferre turned, then, and smiled a small, sad smile. “It does, my friend. It does. The world changes in the blink of an eye.”



Montparnasse scoffed. “When it does, it changes for the worse.”



“When I was a child, embroidering a waistcoat like yours would have been inconceivable. Forget royalty, only Gods could have dreamt to own the garments you wear today.”



“Wonderful, I am better dressed than an uncivilised peasant.”



“Yes, perhaps that was not the correct thing to say. Most are better off before ‘civilisation’ arrives.” Combeferre dusted the sand he had ground from the parapet off of his hands. “But that is not the topic of this conversation.”



“So, what? You’ll still be here in another hundred years, another millenia, staring out across the horizon and mourning your lost loves?”



“And remembering what brightness they brought to my life. Remembering their jokes, and marvelling at how lucky I was to have them grace my presence. I will be lucky if I can have another thousand years of friendship.”



Montparnasse swallowed, a thick lump lodging in his throat. “I couldn’t. I can’t. One… one was enough. I never want to feel this way again.”



“Ah, child…” Combeferre clapped a hand around Montparnasse’s back, hard enough to sting. “This will sound terribly patronising, but you are young, and you have many more years to love ahead of you. Many more heartbreaks too.”



“I don’t want to. I— I forgo love. I swear off it. Nothing good comes of it, anyway. Look at you.”



Combeferre chuckled at that. “You know, Montparnasse, I’ve been an old man for so long that every time my young friend swears off love, I forget how sweet it is. You are not the first, let me tell you, and you won’t be the last. But I have unfortunate news for you. If you are of the loving type you will find yourself loving again, and trust me when I say it is a far more miserable life looking over your shoulder as if it is some creditor coming to collect a debt.”



“You say that as if you’ve tried.”



“Oh, many times, my young friend. For hundreds of years, sometimes. And every time I do so, I meet a group of people who have such fire in their eyes that I cannot help but fuel my selfish need to be there, surrounded by them. To witness their rise, to absorb any love they are willing to give me. To catch them, if I can.”



Combeferre patted Montparnasse on the shoulder. “It is good that you have loved, Montparnasse, even if it does not feel it now.” So saying, Combeferre made his way back inside.



-



By the time Javert had been escorted in, Valjean had been freed, fed and befriended.



He had found an unlikely friend in Dionysus, his cellmate for the day. Valjean imagined that given any other circumstance the man’s levity and occasional monologue might make for a tedious companion, but he felt that the man told a great story and kept the mood light: both things sorely missing when imprisoned.



Dionysus had also returned after a brief departure with the keys to Valjean’s shackles, promptly releasing him and helping him over to sit on the bed to recover. 



“While we’re at it,” Dionysus had said in a stage whisper, “I’m not really the God of wine.”



“Will you get your companions in trouble for telling me otherwise?”



“If you turn out to be a double-crosser, Jean, I will be deeply heartbroken. Look me in the eye and tell me you’re not here to spill our secret to the world.”



“I can do you one better,” Valjean had said, offering out his hand. They shook on it, and Dionyus grinned.



“I am known as Grantaire, though I feel we should do away with the formalities now that I’ve had you in my bed, and allow you to simply call me R.”



Once the word had spread, R and Valjean had been joined by a curious Musichetta, Joly and child, then by a warm-hearted Combeferre and frozen-solid Montparnasse. Marius had been brought in by Feuilly, and once the one-person room was beginning to feel like a pen, someone corralled them out into the main shared space.



It was a room that was once most likely a wine cellar, but that had been made over with soft linings and cushions, more akin to a den than to a traditional living area. 



It was to this room that Javert was directed, Bahorel guiding him through the labyrinthine tunnel system until they emerged into a crowd. Javert noted that they had wine and food spread out between them, and they were engaged in several lively conversations. 



He raised an eyebrow to find Valjean in the middle of telling a story about how he had once saved several children from a burning building. He did so in his usual tone, as if this feat of heroics was nothing but another standard day, but he could tell that the man’s audience were having none of it. They were massaging Valjean’s ego at a speed Javert thought might kill the man.



Somebody cleared their throat, and as one, silence descended on the room. Hackles raised, and several sharp implements levelled in his direction. 



He held his arms up for posterity. “Good evening.” 



“What’s 

he

 doing here, Bahorel?” Javert recognised the voice as Feuilly’s. 



“Probably the same thing he’s doing here,” Bahorel said, indicating Valjean with his head.



“Jean,” Grantaire said, warning to his voice. “We shook on it. You must tell me if you’re working with the police.”



“I am not,” Valjean assured. “Not really.”



“What do you mean ‘not really’?” Grantaire prodded at Valjean with one newly elongated nail. “That should be a yes or a no question.”



“Hey, hey,” Javert warned. “Take it easy on the old man. He may look like he’s under forty, but I assure you he’s decrepit on the inside.”



“I’m only sixty-six,” Valjean objected.



“And a ripe age at that,” Javert said.



“Oh! Pontmercy!” Bahorel cut across the rising tension with a pleased wave. “What a pleasure it is to clap eyes on your gormless face again! Oh, but if you’re here, that must mean — Did I miss it?”



“Miss what?” Joly asked from his seat in the cradle of Musichetta’s body, also ignoring the fight brewing in the background.



“The main event, of course! The reunion of the century!” 



Bahorel was very pleased to find that his sense of timing was absolutely impeccable. No sooner had he said these words did the door open, revealing the very main event.



Enjolras and Cosette, arm in arm, twins, delighted.



-



“Do you know something, Valjean?”



“Hm?” Valjean asked, raising his head from the book he was only half-reading. Javert stood by the window of Cosette’s library, staring out into the night.



They had been invited here as part of the reunion celebrations, but had both sought a reprieve from the overwhelm of sights and smells and sounds.



“I am rather at a loss,” Javert said.



“How so?”



“I have solved cases before. Plenty of them, decades of them. And yet, I cannot remember the last time the solving of one left me feeling like this.”



“Like what?”



“Happy.”



Valjean snorted. “And why would that leave you at a loss, my friend?”



“It is an… unfamiliar feeling. I’m not sure what one is supposed to do with it.”



“Well Javert, I am not sure I am quite equipped to give you advice on this matter, for I am only recently coming to find myself happy, too.” Valjean snapped the book shut, finding himself in a playful mood. “Is there anything else I can help you with instead?”



“When I ran, that time. When I stabbed you. In M— sur— M. You touched my neck.”



Valjean blinked. This was an unexpected tangent, and it rather soured the thoughts of happiness they had just been conversing upon.



“Ah. Yes.”



“Why?” 



“It —” Valjean chewed at his bottom lip, then looked, rather guiltily, out of the library’s window. “You’ll be angry with me if I tell you.”



“When you tell me. Out with it, so I may be angry and we can surpass it.”



Valjean squirmed a little in his seat, as if the truth on his lips caused him uncomfort simply by living within him. A worm under his skin. A slug under his tongue. 



“There is an… understanding,” Valjean started, slowly, still not meeting Javert’s eye. “Between those of us like us.”



“Christ, Valjean, out with it.”



“I touched your neck with my blood. It marked you as mine.”



“Ah, I see.” 



“You do?”



“Well, yes. Your target, your meal. ‘Do not eat this one, for it is my prey’.” 



“Ah.” 



“Ah?”



“No,” Valjean said, and then, “Yes. That is it.”



“I am wrong.”



“You were right,” Valjean countered. 



“This did not make me angry. I am wrong.”



Valjean grimaced. “Mine in the, ah, Biblical sense, if you will.”



Javert had taken a sip of his wine. He hoped the carpets were not the kind that were harmed by touching moisture. “You marked me as your prostitute?”



“Javert.” A harsh tone of voice, one Valjean reserved for when Javert truly had stepped out of line. 



Javert grit his teeth, smarting at the annoyance he felt at himself for slipping so easily back into his old terminology when he had tried so hard to change it. 



“My apologies,” he said, attempting to hit the mark between truly sorry and over-zealous. “I mean to say, you marked me as your… your concubine?”



“Lover,” Valjean suggested, looking like he might combust on the spot for uttering the word. “Lover might be a more all-encompassing word.” 



Javert’s hand came to his neck, covering the spot where, many years ago Valjean had marked the fearsome detective as his lover. “And that is why I was not attacked on the way home.”



“And for many months after.”



“Months?” Javert asked, incredulous. “How powerful is the mark?”



“I suppose it depends how much feeling is given when one… does the marking.” Valjean paused for one horrible moment before clarifying: “I saw you attacked and I was desperate to help you.” 



This explanation was reasonable. However, Javert’s mind had already played its traitorous trick on him, and had made the mental link between words that had not been implied. Strength of feeling, lover. Strength of feeling, love. 



Words likely inconsequential to Valjean struck Javert. 



For the third time in his life, he found himself weighing his feelings towards Jean Valjean: the first, in M— sur M—, wondering if he harboured wicked, lustful thoughts of the Mayor that deluded him, kept him ensnared in the Mayor’s netted web. He had found himself innocent.



The second time, hatred. Here, again, he had come up innocent. Any hatred he truly had for Jean Valjean came from a place within: certainly not ideal, but ultimately not a reciprocal feeling. 



Third, love. 



Did he hold love for Valjean? 



Certainly. The love of the lost for the saviour. The love of a brother for a friend. The love of a thankful, changed man. The sensation of Valjean’s blood on Javert’s neck had made him shudder, all those years ago. The thought of it now made him do so again, though this time, his horror was borne of a different part of his heart. 



In the moment the action, Valjean’s fingers to Javert’s pulsepoint, had not felt like anything.  He had barely registered the sensation with the adrenaline pounding through him. Now, however, Javert could swear he knew the touch intimately. Wondered just how long he had been hoarding information about Valjean’s touch until this moment, until he could imagine with terrifying clarity what it would be to be touched by Valjean. 



Of this, Javert was guilty: he loved Jean Valjean.



“You are angry at me,” Valjean observed after a moment. 



Javert had quite forgotten Valjean was still in the room and startled. Angry? He supposed he was; angry that he felt this overwhelming pang of hurt and affection. “Yes.” Javert watched Valjean look away, internalising the words. “Another instance where you, you would sacrifice yourself for me without a second thought.”



“There were plenty of second thoughts.” Valjean’s eyes had locked onto a window pane, and refused to budge. “You had just stabbed me, Javert. You had damned me to that town, to the world. There were many moments that evening when I could have interjected sooner. You could very easily have perished that night, many times over, because saving you was my second thought.”



“How much simpler the world might have been.”



“Perhaps it would have been simpler,” Valjean mused. “Easier for me, easier for Fantine. Easier for every one of the souls in that town lost after my departure. Easier for a Cosette with a mother, for a June rebellion without a police spy, easier for you. But that is not the point of this exercise, is it, Javert. The point of this is for me to say ‘I saved you’, for you to say ‘I am unworthy’, and for me to remain a Saint in your eyes.”



“Do not think,” Valjean continued, “That I cannot understand the thoughts that course through your mind now, Javert. Do not think that I will allow you to take the blame for this. Do not think that I will allow you to connect only the points you want to connect. What happened that night, whatever its consequences, happened as they did. This is not to blame you, this is not to remove your agency in the event, and it is certainly not meant to expunge your guilt from the situation. But with this new information, it is to ensure that we learn of our mistakes, and to let that guide us in the future.”



“I..”



“Yes, you. I, those that attacked you, the town, the systems of oppression that led us to that day, we all together forged the moment that day, and we cannot go back to change it. Try as we might, we must live — some of us longer than most — knowing we had not acted to the best of our ability, reliving every moment in our dreams, or through our current actions.



“But do you know what, Javert?” Valjean did not look over to Javert, but he shook his head regardless. “We are sitting together today, reflecting on the moment. We have built a life together where we may talk about our mistakes in an environment I hope you feel is safe for you, and that shows development. No, not just development, but a desire to learn, and to keep learning, at personal expense, so as to grow, to continue growing and to really change — not just ourselves, but the world in which we live.”



Valjean swallowed, as if biting down tears that would chase out his words, and slumped in his armchair, deflated. Javert, who had not known Valjean to talk for so long in one sitting, was moved to speechlessness. 



Both startled as, distantly, a bottle of champagne was violently uncorked. Catching the sight of one another’s faces, they both began to laugh. “We’re an odd couple, hey, Valjean.”



“That we are, Javert.”



Javert raised the nearly-empty wine glass in his hand, a little self-consciously. “To happiness?”



Valjean raised his own glass to Javert’s in this mock toast. “To happiness. May it come easier this decade than the last.”



-



When Cosette turned thirty-six, she consented to having her brother turn her into a vampire, and her brother-in-law turn her into a werewolf. 



She had wanted to wait until she had reached the ever-age of her father, who was eternally thirty-four, and then had added another couple of years, just to make sure. Marius had contested, for a while, at her looking old enough to be his mother, but as with most things in Marius’ life, his complaints only made matters worse for himself.



Cosette enjoyed the lines on her face because they reminded her how often she laughed, and she liked the roundness of her body because it reminded her of how well she had lived. 



Javert relished holding the title of oldest in body, claiming that allowed him the dignity of hierarchy, but very few actually extended him this honour.



As the years passed, their little family rose once again from its hide-out in the shadows. There were always revolutions to plan and corruption to expunge, factories to run and school-houses to fun. Food to give, alms to offer and games to play. 



Their family grew, as families are wont to do, and so too was their graveyard filled. Healthy babes were passed around excited siblings, parents and grandparents, and flowers were offered to mark every anniversary of departure.



The family fought, and the family laughed, and the family loved.



This family was occasionally forced to survive but, more often than not, they thrived.


 


Let Love clasp Grief lest both be drown'd,



Let darkness keep her raven gloss:



Ah, sweeter to be drunk with loss,



To dance with death, to beat the ground,



 



Than that the victor Hours should scorn



The long result of love, and boast,



‘Behold the man that loved and lost,



But all he was is overworn.’



— In Memoriam A. H. H., Alfred Lord Tennyson


 

annnd there we have it. A fic that has gone an unintentional 5 years in the making. lmao. 

i hope you feel any kind of satisfaction from this ending!


Bazemayonnaise on Tumblr
