Title: An unexpected snag
Work ID: 51811381
Author: M_Moonshade
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert POV, Established Relationship, light bondage (attempted), Blood, protective valjean, protective Javert, it started silly and it's going somewhere else, the return of serum!Javert
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 4/?


Javert snaps shut his pocketwatch with a satisfying click. Not much longer now-- somewhere between a half and three quarters of an hour, and then Valjean will be back from his nightly rounds of giving alms.



That’s more than enough time.



He disrobes and carefully folds every article and puts it away, not to look untidy, and then he uncorks the first vial of oil. Two more are waiting on the bed stand, should they be necessary-- which they might be, if things go half as well as he anticipates.



He’s spent weeks planning for tonight, and it’s coming together at last-- in another time, he would have been anticipating his pinch of snuff already, but today he has a far more enticing reward ahead of him. 



Javert eases a finger into himself. 



He can already picture it: the way Valjean will startle when he opens the door-- his face will flush, and then his eyes will darken, and then--



All the way in, then back out again, in and out, in and out, and then it’s joined by a second finger. Slowly, gently, carefully. He knows he can take it faster, rougher-- in fact he wouldn’t mind doing just that right now-- but Valjean will be pleased to know he’s taking his time.



Javert's fingers start to scissor apart, easing himself open a little wider, a little wider, bringing on that sweet stretch until a third finger can slip inside easily. The ache is enough to make him groan, but he knows Valjean’s cock will be even better. He’s hard now, so very hard, but he won’t touch himself-- only Valjean will be allowed to do that. Only Valjean will decide when he comes.



Javert douses his fingers with more oil and bathes his rim in it, swirls around the inside, stuffs himself full of four fingers and he might just cry, it’s so good but it’s not enough, not quite right, not like the real thing-- but 

oh

, he’ll feel that soon, hard and hot and utterly perfect inside him. His brow furrows and his jaw goes slack as he finds himself searching inside himself for that spot, the one Valjean uses so generously--



And he will, Javert reminds himself, easing his fingers out of himself before he can end this prematurely. He will. Later. And it will be so much sweeter for the anticipation. 



He cleans his hands with a damp cloth and turns his attention to the next order of business. 



Stashed away in the closet is a length of cord, folded and tied just so to distribute its weight between the sleeves of a coat that is far too warm for this weather.



The cord is a fine silk-- he would be just as satisfied with hemp rope, but he knows Valjean will appreciate the softness more than the money he might have saved by getting something rougher. Javert measures it out with exacting precision and weaves it through the bed frame and behind the headboard, and then ties a series of knots. He’s spent time consulting with books and sailors for precisely the right techniques, and then practiced in secret until he can tie each knot quickly and with confidence. The most important are a pair of loops, on either side of the headboard. As they are, they’re fairly unassuming, each one loose enough that he can slip his entire hand through without difficulty. He pulls the cord taut, testing it, and it constricts around his wrist, stopped by a second knot before it can become dangerously tight. With a bit of maneuvering with his free hand, he loosens it again and slips free. 



It’s perfect.



It has to be.



It isn’t that he hasn’t tried to discuss the subject with Valjean. He’s tied his own mind into knots trying to come up with some way to phrase it that will make him understand, but nothing he can say is good enough, and he doesn’t want to risk putting him off by saying the wrong thing.



After all, Valjean is all too familiar with being restrained. All these years later, he still bears the scars of it. Surely the idea of spending one more second bound and helpless will no doubt repel him. 



But it isn’t Valjean that Javert wants bound.



He recalls it clearly: on his knees in an alley, bent double as Valjean’s weight bore down on him, 



his wrists were wrenched behind his back and secured in irons-- feeling anticipation so strong that it had his eyes rolling back and his mouth watering, his whole body writhing to get closer, maddened by the serum into voicing his filthiest desires. Another moment, weeks later: his wrists shackled to the headboard of a rented bed. To keep him from mischief, to keep his hands from wandering-- but all that night his mind had gone back to the man who lay chastely beside him, and to all the things Valjean could do to him if he was just a little less saintly. 



All the things Valjean could do to him 

now

, 

tonight

, if Javert can adequately prove that he is willing. 



He intends to leave no room for doubt.



He glances again at the pocketwatch. Valjean will on his way by now. Only a few minutes more. 



He stows the watch and climbs into the bed, settling into a position as meticulously planned as the rest of the evening: he’s sitting up against the headboard in a pose that will keep comfortably even if Valjean is delayed in his return. The blanket is draped demurely over his waist in what he hopes is a tantalizing display, but which doubles as a safeguard against the possibility of anyone else stepping into the bedroom while thinking it unoccupied. The bedsheet beneath him is thicker than the season typically calls for, and far older than most of the household bedding, to accommodate for the generous supply of oil that he’s already made use of. The loops on the headboard are positioned to cause him no strain and pose no threat to his circulation. 



Satisfied, he fits the loops over his wrists and pulls them tight. 



There’s nothing left but to wait. 



He’s made his estimates based on patterns of behavior, but beyond the vaguest guess, there’s no real telling when Valjean will return. Maybe he’s coming up to the front door this very minute; maybe he’s been caught up in a conversation with some poor soul and will be caught out for another hour or more. No matter-- Javert will be right here, waiting faithfully for him, no matter how long it takes. His ears are nearly pricked as he listens for signs of an approach, straining to identify every sound, and all the while his mind is racing. 



When Valjean sees him like this, will he cast off his own clothes in a rush? Or will he remove them slowly, perhaps fold them and put them away properly, to tease Javert as he reveals his skin one painstaking inch at a time? Or will he forego undressing entirely and fuck Javert through the placket of his trousers? Will he pull Javert flat on the bed and fuck his mouth? Will he climb on top and ride him? 



Javert jerks his hips, just to feel the blanket shift and settle against his prick. He’ll take any of it-- all of it-- anything Valjean wants, he’ll have. 



Javert is snapped from his fantasies by the creak of floorboards. There are footsteps outside the door, nearly catlike, but the old flooring gives away the slight unevenness of the gait. The door opens silently on well-oiled hinges, revealing Jean Valjean.



“God in Heaven!”



Javert isn’t sure if he shouted it, or Valjean, or both at once. The door slams shut. Valjean rushes to the bedside. Javert forgets himself and makes to close the distance between them-- and then the ties around his wrist abruptly remind him of their presence, and he is jerked violently back against the headboard.



“What’s happened?” Valjean demands, his hands already working at the closest rope. “Who did this to you?” 



“Never mind me!” Javert strains against the ties, but they refuse to budge. “Damn it all, Jean, you’ve been stabbed!”



“It looks worse than it is,” Valjean says, which it goddamn better be. Blood stains one side of his waistcoat, its source made all the more obvious by the vicious slashes through the fabric. But of course he doesn’t seem to give a damn to the fact that he’s

 clearly injured

. “Who did this, Javert? Are they still in the house? Did they hurt you?” His voice takes on a dangerous tone, and a shiver runs down Javert’s spine. 



And-- oh.



He hadn’t considered that this might, perhaps, look like something other than what it is. And now, in the aftermath of what must have been an attack--



“No.” His hand finally slips through the loosened knot, and he touches Valjean’s face. “There was no one here. Only me.” 



“You?” The edge of his panic seems to have been blunted, but it isn’t entirely gone. “Why would--”



“Never mind that. I’m not hurt, but you are. So let me see--”



Valjean does not, in fact, let him see. Instead he climbs halfway onto the bed and leans over Javert to start working open the other knot. Ten minutes ago Javert would have found this position quite gratifying-- now he’s exasperated. 



“For the love of God,” Javert mutters. If Valjean won’t show him the injury, then he’ll do it himself. With his one free hand he starts slipping the buttons from Valjean’s waistcoat. It’s clear that the stiff wool took the brunt of the damage-- and surely the coat he was wearing over it took even more than that. There’s a long strip where only the outer layer of the bloodied fabric is cut, while the lining beneath it remains frayed and bloodstained, but otherwise undamaged. 



“Who did this to you?” he demands, rounding Valjean’s earlier question back on him. “Is it too much to hope that they’re unconscious in a prison cell?”



“It wasn’t necessary.” With a grunt, Valjean opens the other knot, and immediately Javert’s other hand joins the task of undressing him. 



“Unnecessary!” The waistcoat is finally freed and thrown aside. “This was attempted murder!”



“Attempted and failed.”



“And that makes it better, does it?” He’s practically ripping the panels of the shirt apart. Stained and damaged as it is, there’s no point in saving it. 



“It certainly doesn’t make it worse.”



“Oh, well 

at least 

it doesn’t make it 

worse

!” Thank God and all his angels, the wound is indeed shallow. But that doesn’t change the fact that somebody tried to murder Valjean. Javert rolls out from underneath him and storms to the vanity across the room, growling a “stay put!” when Valjean makes to follow him. 



He soaps and scrubs his hand in the washing bowl and rinses it with clean water from the jug-- he isn’t about to handle the injury unwashed, given how he’s spent the past hour. The moment he’s sufficiently clean, he grabs the basket of supplies that Valjean always keeps on hand and storms back to the bed. 



“Did you invite him back for tea?” he grumbles, leaning close to the wound as he dabs it with a damp cloth. “Is your would-be murderer enjoying refreshments while you bleed out up here?”



“I’m not bleeding out.”



“Not for lack of effort on his part!” It’s hard to look at the injury up close like this, as if Valjean is just some unimportant victim of a random crime, as if his body is simply a display for evidence, as if it wasn’t him, as if the slightest bit of added force might not have carved through the muscle and punctured the intestines beneath-- a slow, agonizing death as the blood turned to poison in his veins. 



He could have died.



Sweet Jesus, 

he could have died.




He tries to breathe past the rushing in his ears and focus on the task at hand: cleaning up the dried blood that’s crusted against the skin, and then plucking out the few threads of wool that got lodged in the cut. Another potential death sentence-- he’s seen men succumb to infection when scraps of their own clothes were lodged deep in their wounds and went unnoticed when the bullet was removed-- but that’s different-- those were almost always the consequence of gunshot wounds--



Christ, what if his attacker had had a 

gun?




“Javert.” Valjean’s hands are heavy and secure on his shoulders, holding him in place. Javert hadn’t noticed until this moment that he’s shaking. “It’s only a scratch.”



“It could have been worse.” Javert unscrews a jar of boiled lanolin salve with perhaps more violence than is strictly necessary and scoops a glob of the stuff up in his fingers. It’s foul-smelling and it stings when it hits abraded skin, but it’s always helped his own wounds to heal quickly and cleanly. He smears it over Valjean’s skin and tries to ignore his trembling hands. “You go out every night showing half of Paris how deep your pockets are; it was only ever a matter of time before someone decided to try something. This can’t happen again.”



“Are you asking me to stop?” Valjean asks, soft and gentle and mournful. 



He would do it. Javert knows. If he demanded it, Valjean would put this ridiculous hobby behind him. Javert could keep him here, safe and secure behind thick walls and locked doors, where no one in the world could ever hurt him. 



And Javert would be, once again, his jailer.



He unwinds the first length from a roll of bandage, not looking into Valjean’s face. 



“I’m asking you to stop going out on your own,” he mutters. “Take me with you. At least with two of us there’s less chance of someone catching you by surprise.”



“You hate giving alms with me.”



“What I hate is the thought of you getting hurt. Hold this,” he instructs, and obediently Valjean holds the end of the clean fabric in place while Javert winds it around his waist. He has to lean in to pass it from one hand to the other behind Valjean’s back in something that might almost be an embrace. His bare skin is warm, but not feverish. He’s safe. He’s alive.



Javert wraps the long bandage around his waist several more times before he tucks in the end among the layers. “Are there any other injuries you neglected to tell me about? Any other muggings that might have slipped your mind?”



“No,” Valjean says, and the nerve of him, he waits until Javert is halfway through collecting his supplies back in their basket before continuing, “Though I have to ask-- is there a reason you aren’t dressed?” 



“Idiocy and shortsightedness,” Javert grumbles. He grabs the basket and storms off to return it to its usual place in the closet. He is all too aware that he is hardly imposing to look at, utterly bare with his backside smeared with oil. He can practically feel Valjean's eyes on him. “If you must know, I intended to surprise you.” 



“And that’s why you tied yourself to the bed?” Valjean’s gaze slides back down Javert’s body and up again. “Is that-- something you want?” 



Javert has half a mind to stay right here in the closet. Shut the door between them and never come out again. “As I said: idiocy.” 



He doesn't look up when Valjean rises from the bed, or when he pads softly toward him. “Forgive me. I didn't intend to spoil your night.”



“I would hope not,” Javert mutters. “If you went out intending to be robbed, we would be due for a very different conversation.”



“I wouldn't do that to you, Javert.” As assurances go, it isn't as comforting as Valjean clearly hopes for. Far more persuasive is the way he cups Javert's cheek and tugs him closer, until he's nestled against Valjean's broad, bandaged chest. “Can I make it up to you?”



It's hard to remain petulant when Valjean is like this, but Javert makes a valiant effort. “You were just 

stabbed

.”



“Lightly.”



Javert considers, very briefly, if it might be possible to fuck some sense into this man.



He wants to. Stars above, how he wants to. But one of them has to keep their wits about them.



“I'm not going to let you aggravate your injury.”



It's difficult, even more so when Valjean kisses the corner of his mouth like he's making a promise.



“Another time, then.”



“Yes,” Javert says, and tries to maintain his resolve. “Another time.”


So I thought this would be a two-parter and then be done, but it's being finicky with me. Javert in particular is Doing Things.

Javert must have told Fantine about the knife wound some time during the night, because by morning she’s already working on a bone broth porridge and scolding Valjean not to exert himself every time he tries to stand. Javert is little better, though his fretting involves far more muttering and scowling. 

Even the elderly Marguerite joins in the fussing, though her contribution is a touch more unexpected.

“The ankle’s where you want to hit next time, Monsieur,” she tells him sagely. “Close to the heel as you can manage. If you spend too much time flailing around the body, you’re just as like to get that knife in you by mistake as on purpose. But the ankle, they’re not even thinking about that. And after that they’ll be all slow and limping while you’re free to run.” 

At Valjean’s blank stare, she gives him an affectionate pat on the arm, as if she didn't just divulge the sort of advice he last heard inside a prison.

“Montreuil was a very different city before you came around, Monsieur. A woman living on her own had to learn a thing or two if she wanted to keep out of trouble.” 

The entire household decides unanimously to keep Cosette ignorant of the details of his injury and how he received it, but even she has decided to join in the effort of nursing him back to health, in her own way. 

Which is why, when Javert leads Valjean to his room to change his bandages, Cosette hurries to catch them.

“Don't forget, Monsieur Javert! You must give Monsieur a kiss!”

Javert freezes in place. “What?”

“You still need to. Maman and Aunt Marguerite have already kissed him.”

“On the hand,” Valjean mutters, his face heating like a furnace when he catches Javert's incredulous look.

“Yes,” Cosette says, apparently reading their reactions as enthusiasm. “And I kissed him on the cheek-- twice, to make sure it works very well. And I'm sure it will work even better if you do it, too.”

“Clarify for me," Javert says. "What  will work, precisely?”

Cosette fixes Javert with a look of patience that she must have learned from a nun. “He'll get better faster.”

He blinks. “And how did you reach this conclusion?”

“Caroline at school says when she gets hurt her nanny will kiss it to make it better. Frieda says that it's just a thing adults say sometimes, but I've seen it work.”

“Have you?” Javert says evenly.

“I have! Back before I came to live with Maman and Aunt Marguerite and both of you, I would get scratches and bruises everywhere and they'd be there almost forever. But now Maman kisses me on the forehead when she tucks me in at night, and again every time I get hurt, and the bruises barely ever show up at all!”

“I see.” Javert's eyes flick to meet Valjean's. 

Valjean, of course, has already heard this theory when it was presented to her mother and Marguerite. They'd fixed him with similar looks then.

“As the young doctor prescribes.” Javert takes Valjean’s hand in his own and bends over it, pressing his lips to the work-knobbled knuckles as if they’re wrapped in the finest silk. He lingers there for a moment, his grip tight around Valjean's fingers, his breath warm on his hand, his eyes turned up to watch Valjean's face through his eyelashes. Valjean swallows and wets his lips. “If there are no other remedies to suggest, I must see to Monsieur’s bandages.”

“Please do," Cosette says, clearly pleased by his contribution. "You'll be better in no time, Monsieur, I know it!”

She darts off, perhaps to report the additional kisses to her mother, while Javert ushers him to their bedroom. Valjean watches her go until she's flitted out of sight, then turns his attention back to Javert. He looks troubled, and any subject that troubles Javert is not one meant for little ears.

"It certainly is a charming theory," Valjean says at last.

“Perhaps,” Javert mutters. “But it discounts the obvious explanation for her improved health.”

“Plenty of good food and rest will do wonders.” She had far too little of that while with the Thenardiers. 

Javert shuts the door behind them. “As will the lack of regular beatings, I'm sure.”

Valjean touches his arm. “That's behind her now. She's safe here.”

“I'm glad  somebody  is.” Perhaps it is merely Valjean’s imagination that Javert yanks himself out of reach. Perhaps he is simply turning away to gather the bandages and salves from their place on the vanity. “Your shirt, if you would.”

That tone leaves far less room for doubt. 

“Are you still cross with me, then?” 

“Not at all,” Javert says coldly. “I'm simply giving appropriate gravity to the fact that you  might have died.”

“By fortune and the grace of God, I didn't. I was barely hurt. Look, see?” Valjean hurries to unbutton his shirt and draw it aside. Admittedly, it was an ugly sight while it was fresh, but by morning it had already improved-- hopefully enough to distract Javert from his worry to more pleasant subjects. “It's healing quite well.” 

Javert glances at him. Just as Valjean had hoped, his eyes linger on the mess of bandages for only a moment before they rove over the contours of his chest. His lips part--

And then abruptly he turns away, his attention forced instead on the basket of supplies. “You might be content to trust your survival to fortune and God alone, but I make it a practice not to depend on miracles in places where common sense should suffice.  Sit.” 

He grabs the chair from the vanity across the room and sets it before the bed with perhaps unnecessary force. He is not rough or violent in the way he removes Valjean’s bandages from the wound, but there’s a sharpness to his movement that suggests he might prefer to be. The moment Valjean's chest is clear, he leans in and inspects the wound with that unrelenting scrutiny that made him infamous in Montreuil. 

“Any pain?” he demands, and immediately shakes his head. “No, don’t bother-- you wouldn’t tell me if there was.” Instead he presses his fingertips to the flesh around the wound and slowly moves closer in, muttering to himself. “Warm, but not hot. Some pus, but not yet enough for concern. Little swelling-- the knife that did this was sharp. A duller blade would have cut less and bruised more.” 

Valjean nearly makes an unwise remark-- that perhaps next time he’ll request his robber be more considerate-- but swallows it back. Right now that would only upset Javert more.

“I am sorry,” he says softly. “For making you worry.”

Javert doesn’t reply. He’s staring at the injury, his gaze distant and strange. And then, without warning, he leans in and presses his lips to the wound. 

Valjean lets out a small breath, barely a sigh. 


 Does that mean you accept my apology? 


“Are you reconsidering Cosette’s prescription, then?” he asks instead. 

Javert casts him a look that’s probably meant to be a glower as he begins applying salve over the wound. “If I could kiss you to invincibility, I would. But for now more reliable methods will have to suffice.” 

“It might not be reliable, but I wouldn’t object to making the attempt.” Valjean smiles; he doesn’t miss the way Javert’s eyes rake over his body before he looks away.

“I’m not about to compromise your health with unnecessary exertion.” 

“There’s no need to exert ourselves,” he says. He’ll gladly take anything-- soft touches, gentle kisses, whispers against skin. 

And so he’s caught off guard when Javert hardens his glare. “You might be willing to gamble your well-being, but I am not.” 

“Javert--” The sound that slips out of him is nearly a whine, surprising himself. So much of his life has been spent keeping his head down and doing everything in his power to keep others’ eyes off him. It’s only recently that he’s allowed himself to enjoy the warmth of human company, much less seek it out. Today, with everyone fussing over him, he’s been utterly spoiled with affection-- and still he’s greedy for more. 

Javert’s expression turns downright stony. “Perhaps that will persuade you to be more careful-- clearly your own safety isn’t sufficient motivation.”

He takes his leave without another word.

Javert is burning.

His face, his eyes, his lungs-- God above, there’s no air in the hall, no air anywhere in this damned house, even when he shuts the door of his own bedroom behind himself and forces deep ragged breaths there still isn’t any air-- 

He was so sure that Valjean’s skin wasn’t feverish, but his lips and hands are still aching in the aftermath of contact as if he'd been scorched. He crosses his arms and pins his hands against his chest, as if they’ll wander off to commit mischief on their own if he doesn’t restrain them-- and maybe they will. Already he can hear his own heartbeat roaring in his ears, reminding him that the serum-madness is just around the corner, waiting to overtake him, taunting him with all the things he might do if he allows his control to slip for even a moment. 

He locks the door, nearly hurls the key out the window, catches himself at the last second and stops before he can do something unwise. Instead he dives into his closet, upends the last several of his projects (he catches sight of one of his practice knots and his stomach drops) and buries the key in the debris. If he loses himself and tries to wander off before morning, he’ll have to sift through the mess in the dark to find it, and there’s no knowing how long that will take him. 

He can handle his infirmity on his own.

He  will handle it on his own.

He will not ask Valjean to soothe him through it. 


 (He wants to so badly--) 


He won’t. 

Valjean’s injury is healing well enough now, but not so well that it can’t be aggravated with reckless handling. He must be careful and controlled, and his serum-mad self is the farthest thing from it. If he’s too forceful and reopens the wound-- if the bleeding starts again and can’t be stopped-- if it becomes infected--

 Breathe-- God in Heaven,   breathe   -- 

There’s another part of him that wants to take to the street, to hunt down the bastard who dared to harm Jean Valjean and make him pay-- but he doesn’t know who did it, knows he doesn’t know, but the madness wouldn’t care, would make him reckless, careless, stupid, would have him sowing chaos on every street corner in its hunt for revenge--

A day ago he might have asked Valjean to secure him in place, to tie him up and make sure he can’t do mischief to him or to anybody else, but he can’t even do that anymore. No, he had to taint a perfectly reasonable precaution with his depravity, and now Valjean knows and he can’t ask for it, not again, not without Valjean looking at him the way he did last night. He knew it was a terrible idea to bring up this proclivity. He knew, but he decided to pursue it anyway.


 What was he thinking?  


He wasn’t. That’s the problem. He allowed himself to be preoccupied with lust and let all else fall by the wayside. He could have held it back until a more appropriate time. He could have joined Valjean on his walk, stayed at his side, protected him when that barbarian crossed his path-- instead he’d spent the evening lying naked in bed like a fucking courtesan. And still--  still! -- because apparently his degeneracy knows no bounds-- he can feel that lingering ache of easing himself open, that emptiness that longs to be filled, that ravenous hunger he so carefully cultivated. And the madness is right there at the edge of his thoughts, whispering how easily he could be satisfied.

He needs to regain his self-discipline. 

He needs to relearn control.


 (He needs Valjean.) 


He snuffs the candle and drags himself under the covers, and he tries not to think how cold a bed can be when he’s in it alone.

Javert doesn’t come back that night. 

That is his right, of course. And Javert has his own room for precisely that reason, even if he mostly only uses it for his secret projects. Perhaps it’s for the best-- last night he allowed Valjean to nestle against him in bed, but by morning it was clear that Javert hadn’t slept for even a moment. Surely some proper rest will do him good. 

He won’t deny a pang of disappointment, but that is quickly pushed aside. Javert gave him a kiss, not a promise. It was foolish to assume that it would lead elsewhere. He shouldn’t have acted as though it might-- perhaps if he hadn’t, Javert might have been willing to stay for a little while longer. 

It doesn’t matter. It’s an absurd thing to get caught up about-- Valjean has been absolutely showered with affection lately, and even more so in the past day. There’s no reason he should crave even more. There’s no reason why Javert’s denial should feel like anything like rejection. He made his reasons perfectly clear.

Even so, he can't help but miss the warmth of Javert's body beside his, and the mumbling sounds he makes in his sleep (which Javert vehemently denies making), and the smell of sweat and silver polish and hair oil that always follows him into bed. He feels their absence like a physical thing, and he finds himself trying to think how he might have avoided it.

Valjean should have taken greater pains to disguise himself when he went to give alms. He should have chosen more winding routes, and taken them farther from their home. When that man attacked him, he should have ended it abruptly. 

And when all of that failed, he should have been more careful about coming back. 

He thought he had been, though. He’d avoided the front door, instead watching the kitchen window until it was unoccupied, and then darting in through the kitchen entrance the moment he knew he wouldn’t be seen. He’d pressed down on the wound to stifle the bleeding so it wouldn’t leave drips in his wake. He’d moved silently, so as not to alert the rest of the house to his arrival. He’d assumed-- and there was the greatest error-- that Javert would be in the sitting room where he usually was that time, sitting in the armchair that allowed him to keep one eye on the entrance hall. Some nights he occupied the time helping Cosette with her lessons, or assisting Fantine with whatever housework she’d talked him into, or pretending to read some improving essay or another, but always he managed to do it while in that spot. And while his favorite perch gave him a clear view of the door, it offered no such vantage point over the stairway. 

Valjean needed only to sneak up the stairs to the bedroom, get himself cleaned up and bandaged, change his clothes into something sufficiently similar, climb down from the bedroom window, and then enter a second time through the front door.

Of course it would require a few days of being careful not to let Javert see him without a shirt, but he’d been confident he could reroute Javert’s attention in other directions for a short while.

The wound would heal, the ordeal would be put behind him, and no one in the house would have any cause for concern.

He’d been so confident in that plan that he hadn’t bothered to make sure Javert was where he expected him to be. 

If he hadn’t-- if he’d made sure-- if he’d been just a little more careful-- he would be sleeping far more comfortably tonight. 

The sun drags itself over the horizon. Javert has barely slept, but neither has he succumbed to the madness-- so in balance, he’ll call it a success. 

There was a time when he could manage two nights in a row with barely any sleep, but that was long ago, when he was a younger man. Still, that’s no excuse for a lag in discipline. He forces himself to pay particular attention while shaving, so as not to leave a nick or miss a spot. His hair is meticulously combed and tied back in an unforgiving queue. By the time he is finished, he is the very picture of respectability.

He’s also ready to crawl back into bed. 

Never mind that. He has work ahead of him that he’s been neglecting in favor of his indolence, and that will not continue. And so he makes his way to the kitchen to assist Fantine with preparing the table for breakfast.

This is something that he can do.

At least it is until Valjean arrives on the scene. 

“Javert?” How in God’s name he can cross a room that fast is anyone’s guess, when  injured no less. But of course he’s in Javert’s space, one hand hovering in the air between them as if to touch his face, smelling like spring leaves and turned earth despite having been banished from the garden, and looking at Javert with all sweet concern, as if a bit of lost sleep is more alarming than being stabbed. “Are you well?” 

There is a part of Javert that wants very badly to reply in the negative. It argues that if he is sufficiently pitiful, Valjean will sweep him back up into bed, and perhaps he can be coaxed to lay down beside him so they can recover together. But  that is the voice of the same hedonism that had him waste good money on silk rope and tie himself up like a reprobate, and he won’t allow it to direct any more of his decisions.

“Well enough,” Javert says stiffly.

Valjean looks unconvinced. “Is your bed giving you trouble?” 

“What do you mean ‘ your bed ’?” Fantine chooses that moment to step in from the kitchen with a platter of eggs. Meddling woman that she is, she doesn’t even pretend not to have been listening. “Are you two fighting?”

“Of course not,” Javert says, perhaps a little too sharply to be convincing. Fantine, unconvinced, casts a glance at her employer.

“It isn’t a fight,” Valjean reassures her. Oddly, she doesn’t look reassured, either. “Javert wanted to avoid aggravating the injury.” 

It isn’t a lie, but coming out of his mouth it sounds like one. 

“And the solution you both settled on was sleeping in separate beds?” She glances at Javert sidelong. “Or just not sleeping at all?” 

“I do in fact sleep when there aren’t witnesses around to confirm it,” Javert nearly snaps.

Fantine looks like she’s got a rebuttal to that, but Javert is rescued from having to hear it by Cosette traipsing into the room. None of the adults present feel inclined to explain to her Javert’s sleeping arrangements or why they might impact Valjean’s recovery. 

Even irked as he is, Javert doesn’t have the energy to follow the conversation being exchanged over the breakfast table. The majority of his remaining attention is spent on eating (bread and butter, mostly: Fantine is overgenerous with seasonings when she makes eggs, and immoderate flavor will only encourage immoderate thoughts), and what little he has left over is pointedly not thinking of Jean Valjean. 

He continues to not think about him while he washes the dishes afterward, though he does listen in on what conversation drifts through the open doorway. Bits and pieces are lost to the sound of the scrub brush, but what he catches still irks him.

“--can’t really think that,” Fantine says, her voice barely a hiss. 

“--sure that it makes a good deal more sense to him,” Valjean says.

“But not to you.” Fantine makes an exasperated sound. “So you’ll just wait it out?”

Wait it out.

Hardly.

Jean Valjean is a man of nearly infinite virtues, but patience in the face of discipline is not one of them. He’d had only a handful of months left on his sentence the first time he’d tried to escape prison, and gotten his sentence extended for his trouble-- and then again, and again, and again, for fourteen damned years. God only knows he would sabotage his recovery in the same way if he was given half a chance. Javert intends to give him no such opportunity, no matter how persuasive he might be with those sweet words-- those strong hands-- that  mouth -- 

He plunges his hands back into the cold water in hope of dousing those thoughts, with though his success is mixed at best. 

Not forever, he tells himself. This necessary exile from Valjean’s bed won’t last forever (God knows Valjean won’t let it), but it must hold out for at least a short while.

The question is, how short?

There’s no hope of summoning a doctor to look at him, not when the last doctor who saw his bare skin tried to blackmail him into self-destruction. He thinks back instead to similar injuries that he’s witnessed for himself, in criminals and in other policemen. Damn it all, it would be easier if Javert still had the records of the prefecture at his disposal, but that’s far beyond him. He has only his memory.

There was Longuet, a young man, new to the force and too eager to prove himself. He’d gone after a smuggler on the docks and wound up carved open like a fish and left in the gutter. He didn’t make it a week, and by the third day he was out of his mind from laudanum, just to dull the pain.

Boitel-- no, his was a stab wound. He’d bled out by dawn.

Herbaux-- he was the one who’d done Boitel in, and his knife had turned on himself during the scuffle, up on the chest. That was what the officers on watch said, anyway, but he hadn’t been bleeding at the time, and his hands hadn’t been broken then, either. The autopsy had said nothing of the head injury that had killed him. 


 (How much have you turned your back on, Javert? How many crimes have you ignored?) 


There was that gambler who failed to pay his debts, found with a final warning carved into his belly-- and the merchant who’d refused to pay protection money-- and the sailor who’d taken a broken bottle during a brawl--

He scours his mind for dates and durations, but all he can see is an endless stream of bodies, of blood and pus and skin gone purple and green with disease, of eyes gone blank and empty as the light went out behind them-- it’s not just a stream now, but a river, raging and roaring, overwhelming him, drowning out everything but its own carnage-- his hands are wet-- his hands are dripping, and a moment ago he was so sure it was water, but now all he can see is  red --

Valjean hears heavy footsteps rushing down the hall, and for a moment he perks up in anticipation, only to be disappointed when he hears a door slam. 

Javert is still upset with him, then. 

 Don’t pretend you can’t understand him,  Fantine had scolded him when she’d gotten him alone.  I saw the state you were in when he’d arrive at the door beaten to hell.  

 That was different,  Valjean had argued to her, but he didn’t have the words to explain how. A little bit of blood was nothing compared to the injuries Javert had been dealt on a regular basis-- and on most of those occasions he hadn’t allowed Valjean to do more than apply some bandages and feed him a few scraps before he was back out on the streets and in harm’s way. His own treatment is practically a seaside retreat by comparison, for a wound that wouldn’t even have brought him to the infirmary at the bagne--

He stops himself before his mind can follow that path further. 

He shouldn’t sit idle like this; it gives his thoughts too much time to wander to places that he’d rather avoid. 

He squares his shoulders and makes his way up the stairs, following those earlier frantic steps to Javert’s room. 

The door is shut. “Javert?”

When there is on answer, he knocks. The door swings open slowly, moved only under the weight of his hand. Beyond the soft creak of its hinges, there is no sound from inside. The only light in the room comes from the hallway, supplemented by those slivers of daylight that slip through the edges of the window curtain.

“Javert?” he asks again, his voice softening to nearly a whisper. He did look terrible this morning-- is he sleeping? He’d sounded so agitated stomping up the stairs a few minutes ago, it seems impossible that he’d drifted off so soon. “You said you wanted to come along with me the next time I gave alms. I thought we might discuss--” 

Behind him, the door snaps shut. 

Valjean goes still, the hairs prickling at the back of his neck, as slow footfalls approach. Instinct urges him to make a fist and start swinging. The darkened room, the other man waiting soundlessly behind the open door-- it has all the hallmarks of a trap. In any other circumstances, he’d be waiting to feel a dague through his kidney. 

A pair of long arms coil around his torso and pull, and he allows himself to be drawn backward until his shoulders are flush against a man’s chest. A face extends over his shoulder, whiskers brushing his neck, breath hot and close.

“Oh, Jean,” Javert croons, his lips dragging over the shell of Valjean’s ear. “Are you eager to run back into danger so soon? You haven’t even finished healing from the last time.” One of the restraining arms slides lower, his hand splaying wide to cover the wound on Valjean’s side. He applies just enough pressure to the tender flesh to hurt, and Valjean’s breath catches. 

Javert chuckles, soft and dark as velvet. “I’ve been neglecting you terribly, my dear. No more of that. Let me give you my full attention.” 

There’s sudden movement and a rough, wet heat as Javert drags his tongue down Valjean’s neck. 

Valjean tries to turn his head to look over his shoulder. It’s a useless gesture: even if the room wasn’t nearly pitch black, Javert’s face is buried against Valjean's throat, impossible to see at this angle. Besides, he already knows what he would find: Javert's face contorted into the strange shape that it always takes in his fits of madness. 

“What’s happened, Javert?” he demands, infusing authority into his voice. “Are you hurt?” 

“Not yet.” Javert licks a second long stripe back up his neck, this time letting his teeth drag over Valjean’s skin. “If you want me marked up, you’ll have to do it yourself.” 

Valjean’s stomach swoops. “No, I mean--”

“No? Are you sure about that?” The hand not pressing Valjean’s injury drags lower still to cup his prick. 

God in Heaven, it’s hard-- it’s  difficult to think with Javert coiled around him like an amorous python.

“You haven’t been like this for some time now,” he manages to say. “What’s changed?” 

“Nothing’s changed.” His voice lowers to a growl. “Nothing at all. You thought you could escape Montreuil, but you’ve run from one nest of killers and thieves and right into another. You’re not safe outside those doors. But in here--” Javert’s arms tighten around him. “Here I can protect you.” 

Valjean lays his hand on Javert’s arm. His sleeve is wet and cold, but without the itchy tackiness of drying blood. He’s not injured, then, at least not in any way Valjean can identify in the dark.

He ought to say something, to explain that what Javert’s suggesting can’t happen. But he knows better by now than to try to talk reason to Javert when he’s like this. The best he can manage is, “I can’t stay inside this house forever.”

“Everything you need can be brought to you. Don't pretend you need work, except to keep you from boredom-- I'm sure I can find something to occupy your time.”

Javert kisses the hinge of his jaw, just behind the edge of his beard.

“There's still good I can do out there. There are people I can help.”

“How could I forget? You have a heavy purse that needs to be lightened.” His hand quests lower and squeezes Valjean's balls, deliciously harsh even through layers of fabric. “You have so many alms to give. And I? I have a hungry mouth that begs to be filled. And I am starving for your  charity .” If the filthy way that word drips off his tongue wasn’t enough to mark the euphemism, the hand unfastening the placket of his trousers leaves no room for doubt. 

“I--”  Sweet Jesus--  “I thought you wanted me to avoid unnecessary exertion.” 

“No need for that.” Javert slides around in front of him, never breaking the contact between them, not even when he sinks to his knees. “No need for anything at all. Just stay there, and let me take care of you. Let me earn your beneficence.”


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Javert wakes slowly, and promptly tries very hard to reverse the process. He wants to be asleep, to stay asleep, here where everything is warm and soft and hazy, with his face pillowed on a broad pectoral and a muscular arm curling around his back and keeping him close, with his limbs wrapped protectively around that familiar body, with the scent of sex and sweat in the air and the taste of Valjean in his mouth. He wants to keep feeling this way, sleep-drunk and blissful, and pretend that the rawness of his nerves is just the feeling of being wrung out by a very good fuck. 



But consciousness keeps coming, and he is dragged unwillingly along with it. 



He’s unaware of the hand carding gently through his hair until it goes still. Beneath him, behind him, Valjean’s muscles go a little more tense in anticipation that Javert wishes he didn’t understand.



“How are you feeling?” Valjean asks gently. 



Javert avoids the question. “What time is it?”



He’s pulled a little closer as Valjean reaches for the bedside table with his free hand, and there’s the soft click of a pocket watch opening. 



“Not long after two in the afternoon.” The watch shuts, and is gently set back down again with the smooth slithering clink of fine chain gathering beneath it.



Javert’s stomach lurches at the sound. 



“Two,” he repeats, dry-mouthed. 



“It isn’t often I hear about you taking midday naps,” Valjean says. “But it seems to me that you needed the rest even before you wore yourself out.” 



Even though there’s no accusation in his tone, Javert cringes at the reminder. He tries to crawl away, but Valjean’s arm is heavy where it’s draped across his shoulders, and so the best Javert can do is sit up to avoid speaking directly into Valjean’s chest. There’s no chance of escaping this conversation. Valjean might do him the kindness of cutting straight to the rebuke, but he is as silent as a priest in a confessional. 



“I apologize,” Javert mutters when he can’t take it any longer. “I shouldn’t have left the door unlocked.”



It’s the first of far too many failings, but one of the few he can mitigate.



“The door?” Valjean’s voice is sharpened by surprise.



“That was-- a miscalculation. I thought I had enough time to lock the door and get rid of the key before the fit came on. I was mistaken.” He’s swallowing back. “I’ve been looking into more reliable means to seal myself inside--”



“You’ve what?” 



Valjean is sitting up now. His hand is clamped, vice-like, on Javert’s shoulder, deterring any hope of escape. And merciful God, does Javert want to flee the room. Maybe flee all of Paris. The Americas might be far enough.



He tries to explain himself: “At the time I assumed I had the situation under control, so I didn’t deem it a priority. I allowed my progress to be sidetracked by a different project.” One involving extensive interviews with ropemakers and sailors. His face is burning with humiliation. “I make no excuses for my failure to adequately prepare--”



“Javert.” Valjean’s voice drops a register, severe in its command. Javert drops his head and falls silent. “You knew an attack was coming.” 



“I did.” 



“And your answer was to seal yourself in this room alone.” He sounds incredulous, as if that’s somehow the wrong answer.



“Yes.” 



“In God’s name, 

why?

 I was right here-- in your hurry to lock yourself in a cage you ran right past me. You could have said something, I could have helped you instead of following you into an ambush--”



“You were never meant to follow me at all,” Javert mutters. 



“Did you think I was going to stand by and let you suffer alone?” 



“Of course not.” Javert wrenches himself back, finally breaking Valjean’s grip. “If I could trust you to stay away, I would have just handed you the key and half the problem would be solved.” That awful, familiar roar is swelling in his ears, and he raises his volume to be heard above it. “But of course you wouldn’t. You wouldn’t think twice before you walked into a beast’s jaws-- what can I do but lock the beast away from you?” 



Valjean’s hand hovers in the air where Javert’s shoulder was, but now that iron grip is gentled into a gesture of supplication. His shoulders drop and he leans forward, making himself small, nonthreatening, as he reaches out. “You’re no beast, Javert.”



“Do you think that if I draw the curtains right now I won’t find fresh bruises on you?” 



Valjean clears his throat, and Javert can hear the blush in his voice. “That’s hardly something I need protecting from.” 



Javert growls. “Dammit, Jean, I 

hurt

 you.” 



“I don’t recall objecting at the time. It was no rougher than we’ve been before.” 



“You’re already injured!” 



“This again?” He tries to hide his frustration, but fails miserably. “I’ve told you, it’s barely anything. I’ve been made to break stones and haul timbers with a back full of stripes fresh from the lash.” 



Javert flinches, he opens his mouth to stop the words, but his voice won’t come. 



“You know this,” Valjean continues. “You’ve seen it. You’ve held the whip in your own hands--” 



The floorboards are cold under Javert’s feet. He doesn’t remember when he left the bed, but he would have kept moving if not for the wall against his back. 



“Yes,” he whispers, and the roaring is so loud he can’t tell if it’s at all audible anymore. “Yes. I remember.” 



He remembers the leather in his hand, the vision of skin swelling, splitting, pouring blood, the sound of cries when they could no longer be smothered into silence. He remembers seeing Jean Valjean collapse in a heap when he was unhitched from the whipping post. 



He does not remember how many times it happened.



At some point the mangled flesh all bled into each other and the screams all sounded the same. He would see bodies thrown into the sea and could not remember if he had been the one who’d delivered the killing blows.



“Javert.” Valjean’s body is barely an outline in the dark. His expression, thus shadowed, is unreadable.



“Do you know how many men died from those wounds?” Javert doesn’t. Changes of weather were more diligently recorded than instances of corporal punishment. Brutality was so commonplace that it went almost entirely unmarked. Some of the men died of practically nothing at all-- sometimes it was just a scratch, or a broken tooth, or the sores that their own manacles left on their limbs. “I committed the kind of cruelty that sent men to their graves, and I did it at my most orderly-- my most disciplined-- my most 

sane

. That’s what I’m capable of when I’m in control of my actions. And now--!” Words fail him. He’s panting like an animal caught in a trap. 



Slowly Valjean rises from the bed and moves toward him. Javert nearly bolts for the door, but Valjean is blocking his path-- and where would he run? Where could he shut himself away that Valjean wouldn't find him? It's all he can do to hold himself together



“Javert.” His voice is heavy. 



“

Don’t

.” Javert doesn't know how he forms the word. He's sucking in air, but his lungs don't seem to fill.



“Don’t what? Forgive you?” 



“Forgive me! I’m not after absolution any more than I’m after the moon. It’s beyond my grasp. I know this. I can’t take the scars from your body. I can’t undo the things I’ve done to you.”



“I’m not asking you to.” Valjean comes closer. “We’re both of us different men than we were in those days. We’re better men than we were.”



“

You’re

 a better man. I’m--” He shudders violently and turns his face away. Is this how the Hebrews felt when they looked away from the golden serpent, knowing that salvation was right there but refusing to accept it? But it isn’t pride that makes him refuse-- it isn’t that Valjean’s mercy is beneath him, but the opposite. “I would swear to you, Jean-- I would swear that I would never again lift a finger to hurt you, but I would be made a liar the instant the madness takes me.”



Valjean closes the distance between them, not with a sweet caress, but with both hands clamped like shackles around Javert's wrists. He pins both arms to the wall on either side of Javert's head and holds him there.



Javert tries to pull his hands free, but they might as well be bolted in place.



He gulps down a breath. Another, when he feels it finally hit his lungs.



Valjean leans in closer, and his quiet voice is clear even over the roar. “Do you really think you can hurt me if I don't allow it?”



Javert pulls harder at his wrists, and still they don't budge. If the madness overcame him right now, he'd be powerless to do more than thrash. The thought is heady, and he’s a little bit unbalanced by the relief of it. With effort, he forces himself to focus. “You allow too much.”



“That’s for me to decide, Javert.” His voice is harsh and authoritative, and it does things to Javert to hear his name spoken that way. “I allow what I do because I know I can take it.”



Yes, Valjean could very certainly take him right now.



Javert opens his mouth to retort, but he can’t find any words. His lips are dry, and unthinkingly he wets them with his tongue. 



Valjean's eyes narrow. The little light seeping past the curtain glints on his eyes as he looks Javert over. “Are you enjoying this?”



Javert jolts back, mortified. This close, Valjean must feel the heat radiating from his face.



“I didn’t intend to-- provoke you.”



“That isn’t what I asked.” Valjean presses closer still. “You enjoy being handled this way. That’s why you tied yourself to the headboard for me, isn’t it?” 



To deny it would be a lie, and a poor one. Valjean only has to move another inch at most to feel evidence of how intensely Javert is affected. “You’re changing the subject.”



In reply, Valjean pivots the conversation again: “You said that you felt the fit coming on. You had enough time to flee to your room-- and enough time to find me, if you wanted.”



Javert struggles to keep up. “We’ve been over this--”



“We’ve agreed that I won’t lock you in a cell, and that you won’t tolerate being uncontained.” He leans in, and Javert can feel him bearing down against his wrists. “But would you consent to being tied down?” 



And suddenly the connection is made. The flush on Javert’s face blooms hotter still. “I can’t ask you to do that.”



“You’ve asked for it before.” 



Javert shivers, remembering that hotel in Montfermeil: Javert’s hands cuffed to the bed frame, the mattress dipping as Valjean climbed in at his side, the fantasies of Valjean’s hands on his body. 



“That was unexpected-- an emergency measure--” Javert tries to swallow, but his mouth is dry. “I wasn’t trying to-- trick you into pleasuring me.”



“But you did enjoy it.”



How many times is he going to ask that? How many times will he allow Javert to dodge the question without answering it outright? His voice failing, he manages, “It wasn’t my intention.”



“And if it’s mine?”



Javert stares, bewildered, ready to beg and not even sure what he’s begging for.



“If it’s disagreeable to you, then we’ll find something else.” Valjean’s hands tighten reassuringly around Javert’s wrists, and then all at once he releases him. The sudden absence hits hard, and Javert can’t restrain a small noise of protest. “But we must have some kind of plan in place for the next time this happens-- and it cannot be to convert your room into a jail cell. I won’t have you make yourself a prisoner in our home.”



Javert swallows, trying to steady himself. “But binding me would be acceptable to you?”



“I think so, yes.” Valjean’s brow is resting against Javert’s now, close enough that Javert can taste his breath. “If it means I need not leave you to suffer alone. If it means that I won’t need to fear for your safety and you won’t fear for mine. If it means I can give you some relief in those moments. Or-- pleasure?”



It takes a good deal of self-control to contain a whimper, but he manages to keep his voice steady. “You shouldn't feel obligated to lie with me when I'm in that state.”



“Not obligated, no,” Valjean says, the shadow of a smile starting at the corners of his lips. “You happen to be very persuasive.”




Can you be persuaded now? 

purrs the shadow of madness somewhere deep inside of himself, imprudent but so very tempting. This conversation feels like it’s gone on for days, but distantly he’s aware that he’s only even been awake for a few minutes. He’s lightheaded, his head is spinning, panic and arousal are warring in his blood, and all he wants-- all he wants-- is the anchor of Valjean’s touch.



“I request that we deliberate over the details later,” he says haltingly. And Valjean must hear something in his voice, because in the next moment his hands are heavy and grounding on Javert’s shoulders, and in the next Javert is gathered tight into his arms. 



“Of course, my heart,” he murmurs into his hair, and Javert thinks he might melt. 


Among the useless trivia I researched for this fic, I learned that the time-release lock was invented in 1880-- a bit early for Javert to use, but you know he would have tried to get his hands on one if they existed at the time.