Title: But I Fall
Work ID: 45260023
Author: Lady_of_the_Refrigerator
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert (Quast) - Freeform, Valjean (Wilkinson), Post-Barricade, Post-Seine, Javert Lives (Les Misérables), First Kiss, Suicidal Thoughts, Suicide Attempt, Hurt/Comfort
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

When Valjean set off from his home in search of Javert, he expected to be arrested. He expected, however slight the chance, that he might perhaps sway the man into leniency. He expected he’d find that the inspector’s services had been needed elsewhere with more pressing concerns than an old parole breaker without a violent offense to his name in decades.

He had not, by any stretch of the imagination, expected this. 

“Inspector! What on earth are you doing?”

Javert threw a hand up in Valjean’s direction, the gesture alone halting him in his tracks. “Valjean, keep back, I’m warning you.”

A frisson of dismay, of dread came over Valjean. No, this could not be. “Come down from there.”

“Why should I?” he spat.

“Because this is rash!”

“You can’t know it is rash. You don’t know my mind.”

“I know it well enough to know this does not suit it. The laws of man—the laws of God…!”

Javert let out a humorless laugh. “I suppose I should expect this sort of disregard for my decisions from you. You threw my attempts to be let go from my post in Montreuil-sur-Mer in my face as well.”

“Javert, don’t be ridiculous. I could not in good conscience demand you be fired from your post when you were right. Your offense was not an offense at all.”

Javert stared back at Valjean in disbelief. Had he never considered the old disagreement from that perspective? In all these years? Likely not, if he only ever thought the worst of Valjean, and yet Valjean still thought it surprising.

A strong breeze tugged at Javert’s greatcoat, causing a billow that made him adjust his footing to keep balanced, his gaze suddenly glued to the parapet at his feet. The instinct to steady himself seemed a glimmer of hope for Valjean, who tried to take advantage of the lapse in his determination to do himself harm.

“Javert, these last days have been endless. I understand that you are weary…”

“You understand nothing!”

“All right, then. Come down and explain to me your troubles, so that I may help you.” 

“I don’t need more help from you—you’ve helped enough,” he bit out, his voice harsh, but somehow also broken.

Valjean began to approach again, one hand outstretched towards Javert. “Here, we can go somewhere—”

“Don’t come any closer! Not one more step, or—”

“All right! All right, I’ll stay away. Just come down from there.” Valjean lowered himself to his knees and raised his hands above his head—he was safe, unarmed, as good as surrendering again, and definitely not coming closer. “Please, Javert.”

“Why should you care…” Javert trailed off when he caught sight of Valjean out of the corner of his eye and then looked again in a double-take so severe, it might have been comical in another context; instead, he stared down at Valjean in horror. 

“Get off your knees!” he shouted.

“Excuse me?”

“Valjean, have you lost your mind?”

To Valjean, the sudden change in the atmosphere between them brought to mind the sensation of whiplash. 

“What?” he said.

Javert jumped down from the parapet to solid ground and Valjean had little time to feel relief as the man rushed over to him fast enough that he couldn’t have dodged out of the way even if he wanted to. 

“Get up, get up—you cannot be on your knees,” he said, grabbing Valjean around the chest beneath his arms and hoisting him up until they were both standing.

“What the devil are you talking about?” 

Javert meant to turn again for the edge of the bridge but Valjean had gotten hold of his greatcoat and his waistcoat, besides, and hauled him back. Despite Javert’s attempts to struggle away, he could not free himself from his hold. “Let me go!”

“Not until you explain yourself. You owe me that, at least.”

At that word—owe—Javert went slack for a moment and it was only Valjean’s grip that held him upright until his muscles reengaged. 

Javert grabbed hold of Valjean’s lapels in return, his hands tightening like the irons he might have used to arrest him. “You will not prostrate yourself for me, I will not stand for it.”

The pair continued to grapple with each other, but for what? Valjean wasn’t sure either of them had a goal in mind for the fighting, yet still they fought. The struggle ended with them half-propped against the side of the parapet upon which Javert had stood, winded and still clutching at each other oddly.

Javert stared, heavy, unblinking, across the short distance between their faces as they caught their breath. His cheeks were flushed with color which made him seem more alive than he had at any point since they’d crossed paths at the barricade. Valjean returned the stare, trapped solidly in the pull between them that never allowed them far from each other’s orbit.

An interminable amount of time passed before Javert reached out for better purchase at Valjean’s shoulders and dragged him bodily towards himself; before Valjean fully registered the reason for the movement, Javert’s mouth was on his. 

Rough and clumsy though it undeniably was, there was still a sweetness in it for Valjean, who had believed a kiss like it would never come for a man such as him. He could never share of himself fully with another, for there was too much to explain, too many ghosts haunting his past to open himself up as a lover would deserve, and so he never sought to do so.

Who would have guessed the first sensual kiss of Valjean’s life would be bestowed upon him by a man who already knew his truth? In that, there could be no one better suited.

Valjean held Javert by the face and pressed himself into the kiss, and a broken whimper escaped the other man, allowing Valjean a chance to initiate an even deeper kiss. 

Javert body sagged when their lips finally parted, and Valjean locked his arms around his torso in an approximation of an embrace, hitching him up until he could rest his weight against him properly. 

Javert turned his face to bury it in the hollow of Valjean’s neck to muffle somewhat the sobs that spilled from him. Valjean was sure the strength of Javert’s grip on him would create bruises, but he couldn’t find it in himself to care. He rested his head atop Javert’s and pulled him tighter against him as the man wept his anguish into their clinch.

“Shh, shh, it’s all right, I have you. It’s all right.”

 


Javert awoke in an unfamiliar bed, in an unfamiliar room. Valjean’s, he surmised. Who else would it belong to? He didn’t make a habit of waking in strange men’s bedrooms, no matter what some ill-meaning prattle speculated about him.

This morning, Valjean himself was nowhere to be seen, but chances were he hadn’t gone far. He wouldn’t let Javert remain alone long in the state he’d found him.

Javert wasn’t sure how he had made it from the bridge to Valjean’s home, and yet also remembered every step—how he’d stumbled his way down the darkened streets, supported by the stronger man against his bone-deep exhaustion, how Valjean had forced him out of his greatcoat and boots and pressed him down onto the bed and would not leave him until he slept.

Sleep had proved beneficial. In the light of day, the crushing weight of Javert’s turmoil had lessened just enough not to kill him outright. It was far from gone, but he found he could breathe full breaths without seizing up in despair. If he had been well-rested yesterday, he likely wouldn’t have clung so desperately to Valjean. He likely wouldn’t have…

Javert felt a sudden stab of shame lance through him where the despair had diminished. He covered his face with his hands, muffling a wounded yowl. 

Sweet Jesus, what had he done? To have lost control of himself so drastically as to kiss Valjean—truly, what had he been he thinking? The knowledge that Valjean had returned his foolish kisses was all that kept him from fleeing back to the bridge in sheer mortification.

They both were fools. There was no better explanation. And of course Valjean would share his madness. If anyone would, it would be him. Javert’s life was full of ironies if one knew how to view them properly.

And now the reason for Valjean’s absence became clear—he came in to the room carrying a tray with plates of bread and cheese and fruit, and froze when he saw Javert sitting up in his bed.

“You are awake,” he said, unnecessarily.

“Your powers of observation are beyond compare.”

Valjean sighed and pulled a small table towards the bed to set his tray on.

“I would like you to try to eat something. You’ve gone too long without food and water.”

“I’ve gone longer and survived.”

“That doesn’t make it wise. Your body needs sustenance to function properly, as does your mind.”

The last might have been pointed, it might not have—Javert couldn’t rightly say.

He relented about the food, however grudgingly. The scent of it had already awakened his hunger, so it was no use to deny it when Valjean could no doubt hear the rumble of it from where he stood. 

 There was also water on the tray, and coffee, as well, but as much as he craved it, Javert was wary to add the effects of coffee to his uneasy mind. Valjean did not share his compunction, and drank it down. (With Javert in his bed, perhaps his own sleep had been poor. Self-sacrificing fool.)

Once Valjean was satisfied that Javert had eaten his fill, he left with their empty dishes and returned with bandages and ointment and clean, fresh water.

“For the rope burns,” he explained.

“There is no need for that.”

“There is even less need for an infection. If you will not clean them, I shall do it for you. Consider yourself lucky I did not do it while you slept.”

The thought of Valjean’s cautious hands upon his raw, abraded skin was at once a thrill and a nightmare, the thought of it happening while he was unaware a guilty flight of fancy. “Give it here, then,” he said, and he hoped Valjean couldn't read the half-disappointed yearning from his face.

Valjean handed over the supplies and stood back from the bed, giving Javert a semblance of space while still monitoring to be sure he took no shortcuts with himself. Javert cleaned and dressed the wounds perfunctorily, but his perfunctory efforts were still thorough enough to satisfy Valjean, for he took the remaining supplies from him without criticizing the result. 

In fact, he did not say anything further about the wounds at all, though Javert felt Valjean’s attention like a physical touch as it fell to where his shirt lay loose and unbuttoned at the neck and at the wrists, and dampened to translucency in the places water had dripped.

Javert swallowed reflexively and said, “I will not shatter at any moment, you need not watch me so.”

Valjean’s eyes flicked up to his; he had not been watching in worry, and they both knew it.

What a time to recognize a shared madness, when the barriers which usually stood between them had been blown to bits like the barricade.

“You neglect far too many of your needs, Javert.”

“You dragged a full grown man through the sewers on your back and now you tend to me with nary a proper break, and you dare say I’m the one who is neglecting himself?”

“Both can be true at once,” Valjean conceded. He sat on the bed level with Javert’s waist then; Javert’s hand twitched in the bed linen, the decades-long urge to seize this man difficult—no! Nigh impossible to suppress. 

Valjean leant over Javert and braced himself against the mattress with a hand near his head, not more than a foot between their faces. “We could try to make an effort to curb those tendencies together, if you’d like.”

Javert’s argumentative words shriveled away as he looked up at Valjean, his familiar features drawn with concern, with something Javert could not name. 

He did not feel panic at being trapped there, though he was; if Valjean decided he would not move, he would have little recourse, but it did not matter much. Where else did he have to go?

If he stayed, he need not think. There was comfort in not thinking. There was comfort in allowing this man to serve as his guide as the law had done all his life. It would be simple to latch onto him, and to let go of the responsibility of choice.

No doubt Valjean would not allow it. He would wheedle and coax until Javert confessed his reasoning for every little thing. Well, honest he could be. Let it drive Valjean away if he wanted it so much.

What was Valjean waiting for, he wondered? Did he expect him to arrest him while nursing injuries abed? Did… Did he expect a repeat of last night, either what Javert had intended to do or what he had done?

“What is it you want?” he asked. “I assume there is something—my face is not interesting enough to warrant such an inspection.”

Valjean looked as if he might argue that point, but then he said simply, “I have a question.”

“Ask it, then. You have me at your mercy.”

A muscle in Valjean’s face spasmed strangely. “Why did you come down from the parapet?”

Javert almost laughed in relief. Of all the questions Valjean could have asked, that had the simplest of answers.

“Because you insisted on degrading yourself.”

“What, by begging you to stop? To not throw your life away?”

“A saint should not kneel before a sinner.”

Valjean pulled back a bit, surprised. “You speak of us?”

“Who else? You spared my life with no thought to your own, you spared that boy with no hope for anything in return, and you spared me again with only the promise of returning to jail chasing at your heels. No mere man can be that selfless, you are a saint.”

“I am not a saint.”

“You are all the more so for not seeing it,” he insisted. “Who but a saint could absolve a man of all the sins he committed against him without a second thought?” 

Valjean shook his head, at a loss. “What sins have you committed to label yourself so?”

“Blind devotion to a flawed premise.”

“A flawed—”

“Even if you are not a saint,” he interrupted, “you are a better man than most, and I have spent my life striving to cage you.”

Valjean’s mouth moved wordlessly for a moment, drawing Javert’s gaze, and his stomach turned in shame.

“And perhaps worst of all, after all these years, it is I who have become a thief.”

“A thief?” An even deeper confusion colored Valjean’s tone. “How so?”

It was gratifying to see some measure of the bewilderment swirling in his gut reflected in Valjean’s expression. 

“I stole from you last night,” Javert said, “you must remember.”

Valjean’s face turned pink beneath his white whiskers. “You speak of the kisses,” he said, and it was not a question. “You are not a thief for those.”

“I had no right to take—”

“You took nothing I was unwilling to give.”

Javert gawked at Valjean, incredulous. “You have lost your mind.”

“No more than you.”

“That is not at all a reassurance!” 

Valjean smiled, and it looked like it was a wholly involuntary thing, just a quick quirk of his lips at some unintended humor in their current situation. He leaned in then, closing all but the smallest remaining distance between them.

“Would you take another kiss, Javert?” he asked, quiet. “If I said you could have it?”

Javert’s stomach flipped at the thought and he searched Valjean’s face as well as he could so close, their ragged breaths mingling together. He gave a silent nod, and with a tentativeness he did not know himself capable of, lifted his head to cover Valjean’s lips again with his own.

The hesitancy in the kiss was very different from the night before. Somehow being sure of his welcome made him more circumspect. Or perhaps he no longer expected his life to end at any moment, and the consequences felt more concrete.

When Javert let himself settle back into the pillow, Valjean’s hand moved to frame his face, to run his thumb over his sideburn, his gaze following the movement of the caress. After a moment, he bent again and, whispering, said, “I give these also.”

He left a kiss at Javert’s temple, at his forehead, at his brow; a ticklish press of lips upon each eyelid, a brush against his nose, one each for the hollow of his cheeks, another on his chin; and finally, finally, once more upon his parted lips.

Soft and slow, the kiss tightened in Javert’s chest until he was sure he would burst from the pressure of it, and only then did Valjean pull away again. He looked upon Javert with hooded eyes, his lips upturned with a sort of knowing he had never seen directed at himself before. “My gifts to you—were they satisfactory?”

Javert’s face flushed hot, and he was sure the blush did not stop there; he wondered if Valjean could see it creep beneath his still-open shirt. “I don’t understand what I could have ever done to have earned—”

“Must everything be earned, Javert? Must everything be deserved?”

“I care not for pity, nor charity.”

“Oh, believe me, I consider nothing I have shared with you today to be charity. I’ve enjoyed you far too selfishly to ever claim such a thing.” He took Javert’s hand in his and brought it to cover the pulse at his neck—he wore no cravat. “You’ve set my heart to race.”

The pounding flutter beneath his fingertips might once have teased a hunger within Javert quite different to the one he felt now. “I’m sure I’ve always done so, as a dog does to a hare.”

“I do not speak of the men we were yesterday. Those men have passed away,” Valjean said, and he looked pleased when Javert did not retrieve his hand from his throat when he let go of him. 

“And what of us today?” Javert asked, watching the path of his fingers as he traced them down Valjean’s bare neck.

“We could build a new world from the old, if we wish it,” Valjean said. “Would you wish it?”

Javert hooked his fingers into the collar of Valjean’s waistcoat and tugged until the other man was close enough to kiss again. “I would,” he said, and then he made use of the closeness.

 