Title: Collective stories from Javert & Valjean
Work ID: 46204390
Author: tinteacosplay
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Les Misérables References, Enemies to Lovers, Enemies to Friends to Lovers, Short One Shot
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 2/?

Javert was furious at the rapid comment. The snow lay thick against the cold cobblestone under his worn out boots. Despite the cold weather that gushed around the two policemen, Javert’s tremors had picked up speed again. The gnashing of teeth, fists and slight tremors was sadly a familiar phenomenon to the conscientious inspector. Since he’d been feeling weary the last few weeks his thoughts slowly started to fall out of control. How dare he think I like men? Where did he get that from, who told him so? What in his presence to this employee made him think that of him? He needed to know immediately, because now everything was at stake. Words wouldn’t get through his gritted teeth and instead the inspector reacted with his foot firmly bashing into a snow pile in between them. The snow came a long way and was unfortunately aimed perfectly at the other policeman. Quite shocked the other policeman took a step back. On the go, he couldn’t help but look at Javert in the eye. The inspector met his gaze and they looked at each other for a brief second. Terrified of the unwanted eye contact the poor man tried to apologise but decided it’d be best to say nothing, bending his head down he regained his focus on the ground.

No more time was needed for Javert to read the rising empathy on the younger man’s face. As if he was worried or worse, pitied him! The inspector snorted at the policeman's retreat, and he snorted even though it was a logical reaction in such a situation he had put him in. Javert was very well aware he had splashed snow on the young officer's uniform without justification. The more Javert thought of it made him freeze. As if that wasn’t enough, his recurrent headache made it’s return blocking out the last of his patience. It had struck them both. Javert was in need of help, but the very hardworking and highly dedicated inspector would never admit it himself.

“What are you waiting for? Get to your position! ” Javert finally hissed dismissively. He felt a strong urge to hide but simply turned on the spot facing an empty street. The other policeman, who was already on his feet, hurried into a side street without a word.

What if Javert and Valjean were on the asexual spectrum? Here they figure it out together.

A little concept I wrote in december. Thought I might share it and please remember to be nice about the spelling since english isn’t my first language :)

Scroll down for Author’s note

Javert - asexualValjean - graysexual


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


There it was again, the twinkle in his blue beautiful eyes. Strong hands slide down his arms to tie with his. A small butterfly flaps its wings humbly as Javert is drawn by a tricky look and an effective grip around his waist. The warmth that wasn’t with him naturally takes over, and the cold is squeezed out of him from what Javert believed was love. Valjean's lips speak a language he hasn’t yet acquainted with, but at the moment didn’t seem to have such great significance. That his lover’s breathing could be so soothing? Javert was ready to give Valjean a smile just as the butterfly's wingbeat subsided. Javert catches his breath as he is led to their bedroom by an almost hypnotic Valjean. The ex-policeman tried to focus on the warmth of Valjean’s eyes but the butterfly had completely vanished.With the bed sheets pressed against Javert's back, there was no doubt what was about to happen. Valjean, in his turn had without any problems placed himself over him with his arms on either side. Javert was so distracted by troubled thoughts that he no longer saw the smile and security in Valjean’s soft features. Had he come closer? It all happened pretty fast.

"Wait"

It was enough for Valjean to see the change in his partner's face but Javert's hand had as well been hastily pressed against Valjean's chest, which immediately withdrew.

"Is something wrong?"

Restricted, Javert removed his hand. Even though he knew he had to explain himself, he had not yet had time to come up with a sensible answer to his actions.

"No no, it was nothing just a little tired that's all." he said without looking at Valjean who frowned slightly. Javert felt the pressure burn within to say something more and continued. "I liked what you did...before."

“Really?”

“Yes really...”

"Alright but otherwise you’ll promise to tell me immediately. ” said Valjean still a little nervous looking down on him.

"I will"

For a few seconds the comfortable tingling sensation came back when a smile returned to Valjean's lips. Javert thought he was at his finest when he looked reverent. It was when his eyes then darkened and had his head bowed over his neck, when Javert slowly lost his joy once more. As Valjean's fingers began to tinker with his shirt buttons, thoughts of anxiety crept to his mind. Javert tried with all his might not to be bothered. Trying his best to suppress his feelings and thoughts of why the desire was mysteriously gone, or to think at all. He knew all too well the point of what they are doing, that he is to be entertained and focus on the present, on Valjean. He closed his eyes and somewhere along the way he forgot to breathe.

The movement had stopped. Javert opened his eyes again and saw a questioning Valjean stepping aside. It was definitely over for prevarication.

"Javert you are very tensed up"

"I'm just...nervous"

"For me? I’d hardly think so,” Valjean laughed kindly and got up. He offered Javert his hand. "You seem so...quite honestly, I'm a little worried about how pale you have become."

It takes a few seconds before Javert takes his hand and feel his forehead with the other. He seemed relatively nervous on the sweat he wiped away.

"No, this is not possible, now you are trembling, how are you feeling?"

Valjean sits down next to the edge of the bed with both hands wrapped around his, which happens before the inspector has time to retreat.

"Valjean ..." Javert sighs and gives in. "It's time for you to know."

"Yes dearest?"

Javert gathers himself. It is a tough truth he has carried for a long time, but as Valjean has taught him, it’s important for both of their health to share. That in the long run it pays out to bear each other's burdens and truths. He tries to breathe soothing breaths, but who is he fooling?

“You already know that I have a hard time with words, well more about...feelings. What I go through is not the same as others, I'm very sure. It's a feeling beyond my comprehension. Valjean I- I'm sure I'm...simply broken”, Javert recognize Valjean's body language and stop him from interrupting.

“-Before you ask questions, I want to say…I want to tell you that I think you should not have to suffer from my erratic behavior and that I fully understand, no, I recommend that you entrust yourself to someone else because of this. I'm alright with that. ”

The room became quiet. No follow-up questions that Javert had expected came from the other man. Instead, the air between them vibrated with energies that quickly made the ex-inspector uncomfortable. It became so stressful that he had to stand up and detach himself.

"Broken?" a silky voice so soft with a trace of mistrust echoed in the silence. "Javert, now I do not understand."

The ex-inspector screwed on his spot. It’s clear that he wants to leave but something tells him that it is not time to escape. His inner monologue he practiced for himself failed completely, and now he stand there powerless without a plan b. Anxiously he stamp with his feet and hides under his collar when he sees that Valjean has decided to join him.

"Well, I'm broken...it is not normal. I know it dose not make sense."

Valjean shakes his head slightly with a small smile.

“Whatever it is that worries you and feels broken, I will not have to attach myself to anyone else. To me, you are no more broken than I am. Javert, do you want to explain a bit more about that feeling no one else feels?”

"It's rather not a feeling, I'm afraid."

"Not a feeling you say? What is it then?"

"I did not feel the same thing you did just now, you had that look, you..."

Javert had stopped himself, why? He did not know yet. Valjean had only tilted his head to the side, but it was enough to distract him from finishing his sentence. Javert was out of his element and remained silent as the other shorter man seemed to reflect or summarize what had been said. Javert is aware that he is not being very helpful with his chin tucked into his collar or that he is stiff as an oak. Although he felt more like an unstable oak that could sway from the slitest puff of wind, and had its roots worn out from the ground and was on the verge of falling over.

After what felt like an eternity, Valjean woke up from his head and really looked at Javert as he spoke.

"Javert, if talking emotions do not come naturally, you do not need to explain in words." and with that the ex-prisoner took a step back and opened his arms as if he had said "show what you mean".

“Jean...”

“I know you find it hard but right now I believe it bothers you so much that it is better to tell, don’t you think?”

It was true what Valjean said. He had after all decided to tell him, but not how. He took a shaky breath and decided to at least try.

He began his way sliding up Valjean's neck, embracing his cheeks in a kiss. In the passion of the kiss that he had created and got answered, he slowly approached the edge of the bed, just as Valjean had previously done. The tingling sensation lingered until he felt Valjean's hands sail further down his bust. Once the tingle disappeared he stopped abruptly and put Valjean's hand against his own heart. He had to look at the dresser and its embroidered cloth instead of the flaming man below him. The hand held against his chest he kissed lightly before turning away.

“there, it happened again...the feeling disappeared! Broken!” he exclaimed squarely.

"Javert, wait a minute," Valjean said as he hugged Javert's shoulders. Javert usually would not approve of this much affection in one night but Valjean felt the need to push his limits for the sake of understanding. “I understand now.”

The inspector allowed himself to be turned around so they ended up face to face.

"You mean desire, that you do not feel desire for me?"

“No, I mean I do! It’s not...yes..."

Javert eventually gives up. His pulse is rising and he finds it hard to breath again. It's almost too much for the former inspector that he's about to lose it. There are lots of emotions swirling inside him all at once that he is not used to. Is he scared, but for whom? At the same time, he feels shame and anger for not being able to feel the same way as Valjean, like other people do for each other. In the mids of his dimmed thought process he glimpsed Valjean’s troubled face seeking his eyes. He felt the need to say something.

He calls Jean’s name and takes the small but robust face in his palms again. Mostly to be able to stay focused on something stable and stop the trembles in his fingers. The hour was late and he could not longer speak restraining himself.

“Understand me right, I feel for you, a lot! I do not know what I would do without you. That you want intercourse is natural and should be something I can give you, but it is not possible! The feeling disappears every time, on the other hand I should be able to perform the act anyway because I care about you, but there is a resistance to it all! That's what makes me broken. Forgive me ...”

Javert prepare to pull away once more but can’t. Valjean has already had time to wrap himself around him like a snake. Javert is confused until he hears the sobs.

"The only thing I want Javert is you, your well-being and love, whatever form it may be."

Valjean cried and took a moment to press his head agains the taller man before continuing. “I’m being selfich hugging you without warning but If I may say something about love, I know that it has a greater meaning than the carnal. There are different kinds of love Javert! And if you do not want to believe it, I can assure you that I always prefer such love as holding hands, hugs, kisses over anything else! In the name of honesty, I'm relieved to hear you say as it is. I have never really had any need for intercourse either.”

The last words hit Javert faster than lightning but took time to really sink in. Could it be true?

“Do you mean that? Can you do without? Do not say that just for my sake. ” he raised Valjean to his height with wide eyes.

"Of course I can," said Valjean and a small laugh left him seeing the ex-inspector in such a surprised state.

"I seduced you because I thought you wanted it, my dear, but how wrong one can be!”

"And so did I..."

All they could do was smile at their preconceived notions. Valjean still saw something in Javert's gaze that told him it wasn’t quite enough to silence his doubts. He then waited patiently with a settled sight on the the ex-inspector, to speak once more.

“But Jean...it turned black before your eyes. As I understand it, it’s a sign."In response, he received a giggle. Valjean shakes his head gently sitting up properly and reaches for Javert’s face to stroke his cheek.

"I guess it's my turn to confess something. My situation is similar to yours as it now seems, but I have now come to the conclusion that the feeling of desire comes and goes less often for me than others. If I may give an example, I felt it a while ago but not when you would show me just now. It just suddenly disappeared, just like you said.”

Valjean smiled broadly at Javert's changing of expression, which had become a more uplifting one. In the moment of silence the withe haired man brushed the tired ex-policeman’s jawline and feral whiskers that suited the man more than he’d ever imagine.

“You may correct me but you seemed to enjoy yourself up to the point of thinking of going further, is that right?" Valjean asked curiously but remained carful choosing his words.

“Correct.”

“So now that we both know we don’t really want it, we could do what we actually want...” Valjean ended his sentence in more of a whisper as he softly comb though the long gary main before him.

“So when you were blushing before, you-...or do I imagine such things?” Javert responded much more quietly than before leaning into the affection he was given.

"It's possible...but I can tell you it’s something I do just thinking about you sometimes." confessed Valjean. He was clearly embarrassed, but it only made Javert’s heart fluter more than ever. He embraiced Valjean who was happily obeying and kissed him without restrain or thoughts, only with feeling. A lovely feeling that would never seem to fade.

Author’s noteI’m happy with the outcome. It was originally written in swedish but I did my best to translate it. I needed to write something happy for my soul because I’m having a hard time right now. It’s out of character sure, but I tried to be as true to the characters either way (hope that it shows somehow).

I’m happy with the outcome. It was originally written in swedish but I did my best to translate it. I needed to write something happy for my soul because I’m having a hard time right now. It’s out of character sure, but I tried to be as true to the characters either way (hope that it shows somehow).Thank you for reading!