Title: comfort of your skin
Work ID: 50877535
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fluff and Humor, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, this is silly
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


Valjean had been working as a lifeguard for years now. People and families of various backgrounds have come to the local pool place to enjoy their time. Valjean always enjoys seeing their smiles and laughter, especially for his daughter, Cosette. The girl loved to swim, so it was expected that both of them visit the pool quite often.


 


These last few months Valjean noticed a certain man, tall and intimidating, that has been going to the pool almost as much as Valjean has. More often than not, Valjean goes to work as a lifeguard and sees the man already busy with his swimming, long strokes of powerful arms moving across the water. During the weekdays, when Cosette is at school, it was mostly just him and the man. It was in one of those weekdays that Valjean learned his name, Javert. 


 


Javert, Valjean has come to know, was a reserved man much like himself, except Javert tends to be quite grumpy and serious. He can’t be described as approachable and definitely not as friendly, but, alas, Valjean has grown quite fond of their time together. When Javert was resting from one of his laps, they would often have conversations about all kinds of things, and even though they tend to disagree, Valjean was eager to know more about the man. Apparently, Javert used to be an athlete, a competitive swimmer, but now he’s merely teaching those who want to become swimming athletes themselves, a job he takes very seriously.


 


Cosette had met Javert before, whenever she didn’t have school, they would go to the pool, and if they’re lucky, Javert would be there. Cosette took an immediate liking to the man, which was unexpected since Valjean noticed that most kids tend to be scared of Javert’s presence. But Cosette loves him, adores him even. Valjean knows that Javert is a good man, so he lets Cosette play with him, much to Javert’s annoyance. Though, he suspects that Javert was just faking it, because now, the two are inseparable. Javert seems to think it was his great responsibility to teach the girl how to be an expert at swimming, and Cosette is more than happy to be his best student. 


 


Valjean always smiles when he sees Javert being himself, feeling a strange warmth in his heart that he couldn’t name. He’s never felt this way before. He’s never noticed another person’s appearance and thought about how much he would love to touch them. But he does now. He notices how Javert’s swimwear hugs his lean figure, and those times where he only wears shorts, Valjean can’t seem to look away from his bare chest. It was embarrassing for a man as old as him to feel such things, so he vowed to keep it secret, avoiding touching Javert as much as he could. At least, Valjean knew he would never have to save him since Javert was quite good at swimming and the deepest part of the pool only reaches to his waist. 


 


That is until one fateful day when Valjean took Cosette to the pool on a Wednesday. There weren’t anyone but the two of them and Javert. Cosette went straight to the tall man, careful not to run because she knew how much Javert cares about rules. Valjean immediately noticed that Javert was just wearing shorts today.


 


“Are you going to swim, Valjean?” Javert asked, snapping him from his distracted thoughts.


 


“Javert, please call me Jean,” he said for what must be the hundredth time. 


 


Javert just nodded, looking flushed. “Maybe I can teach you to swim today?”


 


The words had barely left his mouth when Cosette piped up. “But Javert, you said you would teach me the butterfly today.”


 


Just looking at the girl’s big pleading eyes, Javert had to give in as Valjean laughed.


 


“It’s alright, Javert. You seem to be forgetting I’m the lifeguard, I know how to swim. Though, I’m sure you can steal my job any day.”


 


Javert barked out a laugh, “I wouldn’t dream of it.”


 


Valjean sat at the table, preparing their food. Cosette and Javert’s voices were a pleasant background noise, enough to make him feel relaxed and at peace. Until he heard a particularly loud splash followed by a pained groan. 


 


“Papa!” Cosette shouted. “Javert’s drowning!”


 


Valjean didn’t hesitate to jump into the pool, a part of him not believing that Javert could possibly drown. The man was an athlete for crying out loud. 


 


But Cosette was panicking, so he reached for Javert under the water and hauled him up. And sure enough, Javert seemed to be unconscious in his arms. 


 


“Cosette,” Valjean said incredulously, “what on earth happened?”


 


The girl was anxiously stumbling over her words as Valjean carried Javert to the side of the pool. “I-I was just— I didn’t mean to— I j-jumped to surprise him— then I—“


 


Valjean couldn’t quite listen to what his daughter was saying, occupied as he is with praying for Javert’s life. He was getting desperate and those lips seem too enticing. So Valjean put his lips to Javert’s and tried to breath life into him.


 


In his panic, Valjean didn’t even notice that Javert had been awake, he’s been conscious before and after he slipped and hit his head on the wall from the force of Cosette’s jump. The girl had surprised him, jumping from the pool ledge to land on his shoulders, which knocked him off balance. Javert, disoriented and in pain, stayed under the water for a few seconds, trying to get his bearings back, when Valjean hauled him up from the water, his eyes snapping shut from the blinding light, and carried to lay on the floor. Valjean didn’t even notice Javert’s squinting eyes or shallow breaths. Blinded by panic and worry, Valjean had applied mouth-to-mouth cpr on a man that wasn’t even drowning in the first place.


 


Javert gasped in shock, fully accepting this strange situation that finally brought their lips together. He has to admit that being handled by those large hands was nice in a confusing way, which is probably why he didn’t stop what was happening the entire time. But Valjean stopped immediately, staring at him with wide eyes.


 


“Javert—“


 


“You idiot,” Javert snapped, “I wasn’t drowning.”


 


“But Cosette said—“


 


“Cosette surprised me by jumping on my shoulders. I slipped and hit my head on the wall so hard that I was disoriented.”


 


“Oh.”


 


Before both men can say anything else, Cosette started to cry. 


 


“I-I’m sorry, Javert,” she said, her face a picture of guilt. “I never wanted to hurt you. I thought I could surprise you. I thought you drowned. I didn’t think you could hit the wall or slip or— or— I’m sorry, Papa, and Javert.”


 


Valjean sighed. “Cosette, next time you should think responsibly about your actions. You could have hurt yourself!”


 


“Jean, it’s alright. It could have been worse, but next time, young lady, you better not surprise me with anymore of your jumps.”


 


Cosette nodded, sniffing. Valjean can’t stay mad at her, “Cosette, go eat. I’m sure you’re tired.” The girl obediently went to their table, leaving the two men alone.


 


Javert can’t help it anymore. He let out a deep laugh at the absurdity of what just happened. Valjean just stared at him in concern.


 


“How hard did you hit your head?” Valjean asked, gently touching the Javert’s hair.


 


“Not hard enough to make me unconscious. What a ridiculous way to go about our first kiss,” Javert added without thinking.


 


Valjean blushed and so did Javert. It seemed the man didn’t mean to say that. “Sorry—“ Javert was starting to say, but Valjean interrupted him.


 


“I would have liked our first kiss to be more romantic than this.” 


 


“I would have liked that, too,” Javert said shyly.


 


They stared at each other for a moment, both flushed and surprised at their confessions.


 


This time Valjean laughed, his eyes crinkling at the corners. “And to think this is what got us to confess to each other. You made me so worried, Javert.”


 


“I do apologize for that,” Javert smiled, it was intimidating and wolfish but Valjean can only be fond of it, “it’s my fault I didn’t say anything sooner. I was fully awake and yet I didn’t say anything. It all happened so quickly… but I must have felt so comfortable being in your arms.”


 


“Oh, you flatterer.”


 


Javert huffed. “I am not.”


 


Together, they went to Cosette, who was still remorseful, but upon seeing the two men holding hands, the girl can’t help the smile that bloomed on her face.
