Title: Cultivating
Work ID: 46091326
Author: 0zzysaurus
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Madeleine Era, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Javert is OOC and it’s Valjean’s fault probably, Javert is scary until he isn’t, brief mentions of racism I suppose?, Romani Javert (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

On the edge of the farmer’s market of Montreuil-sur-Mer, a cluster of urchins stood purposefully beside the water fountain. There were four or five of them, not one of them taller than a bollard; and between them, they feasted upon a basket of red apples that they had found. The juices dripped down their greedy chins, and the apples were all the more tasty for the fact that they had not spent a single penny to obtain them.

It would have turned out a nice summer afternoon for them, if they had not suddenly spotted him from across the square.

He stood frighteningly tall in his dark overcoat that he wore even now in the blistering heat. His eyes were framed by the brim of his hat and the sharp border of his black sideburns. He was a dark giant, a boogeyman from their nightmares. His stiff cane was tucked under his arm, but the moment the children realized they’d been had, the cane slipped out with a slow drawl, and tamped once on the hard cobbles.

It was the dreaded police inspector.

The Wolf was here to get them.

The group of youngsters turned heel instantly, the basket of apples dropping to the floor like marbles, save for the few that were still desperately clutched in the hands of their covetors. As quickly as they could they scattered themselves throughout the streets of Montreuil-sur-Mer.

•••

Javert did not have to run to keep up with the flock of fledgeling pickpockets. He did not even need to jog. His long legs and measured strides brought him closer even at this slow pace. If an onlooker to this crime were to spot him in pursuit now, they may not have even realized that he was indeed in the midst of a brisk chase.

Of course, these children did not know the streets as he did.

Javert patrolled them day and night, following the footsteps of rats and vermin to the depths of their hideaways. There was not an alley nor a slip street in this town that he did not have branded to memory. He could map this town by smell alone if he wanted to.

The gamins didn’t stand a chance. All Javert had to do was corner one, and with his hand scruffing the boy’s necktie, he would shake out the names of his co-conspirators.

Yes, these were the very same street weasels that Monsieur Madeleine so often gave away coins and sweets and fatherly embraces. The mayor’s affections were easy enough to steal, it seemed. Those acts of generosity had not served these children well as incentives to abide by the law. If anything, Javert suspected that it had only emboldened them.

Javert hated thieves, be they convicts in chains, the size and strength of oxen; or children with dirty hands and feet scampering across the cobbles.

Here, this was where he had seen them run.

The group of urchins had turned down an alleyway that was unknown to them, and had been faced menacingly with a dead end — a high fence blocked the way. But, with enough leaping and climbing and stepping upon each other’s shoulders, all of them had been able to scale it and flee.

All but one.

Javert stood at the mouth of the alleyway, and spotted the smallest of the group scrambling at the base of the fence with his dirtied nails.

When the boy noticed a sudden shadow falling over him, he turned to see Javert’s terrifying form looming closer.

The Big Bad Wolf.

The boy was frantic now, crying out for his long-departed companions to return and pull him swiftly to freedom.

Clearly, Javert noted, this one had been left behind.

It would take him many days of pondering to come close to understanding why he did what he did next.

It could have been that the boy was no older than four, and could not possibly have played a key role in the willing theft of apples. Maybe it was that the boy had been abandoned by his companions as a scapegoat to the Wolf, left behind to be eaten so that the others may find time to run and hide. Such a fate could not possibly be fair.

Even more so, maybe it was the olive complexion, the dense black hair, and the ever-so tilted nose that had Javert feeling twists of mercy in his chest — In his simple appearance alone, Javert could parse a suggestion as to why the other urchins had chosen this boy in particular to leave behind.

The image of a similar looking boy flashed in Javert’s mind, grimacing and weeping much like this one did now, though the child in his memory wept from behind a lattice of iron bars.

He approached until his downturned gaze could be fixed squarely on the shivering child, who now hyperventilated and wailed with terror.

Did his mere presence really evoke such feelings of fear in the hearts of thieves and criminals? Did he truly draw out this quaking fright and sudden reverence to the law with his stature alone?

“Please,” sobbed the child as he cowered close to the fence. “Don’t eat me.”

Javert sighed, and then felt the brief twitch of a reluctant smile on his lips.

No.

In this moment, he concluded, he was just the Big Bad Wolf.

Javert lifted his free hand slowly, and took the brim of his hat between his fingers. Taking it off, he held the hat close to his body, folded the cane under his arm, and knelt down on one knee upon the cobbles of the alleyway.

The boy’s eyes were squeezed shut now, terrified to open them and see yellow eyes, glinting teeth, terrible jaws lunging for him.

“Boy,” Javert spoke. “Look at me.”

The child did not look, his hands plastered to his face to hide himself away.

Javert took his cane in hand, and grabbed it by the tip so that the warmed handle stuck out. At arm's length, he nudged the boy’s trembling hands with the cane. It was gentle, not a mean prodding. Just a light touch to gain the boy’s attention.

The boy parted his fingers and peeked out from behind them, his eyes still red with tears and blinking with fear.

Javert did not look so scary when he was kneeling, nor so without that towering hat that sat atop his head like a chimney. His tousled hair and his sideburns still framed him with wolf-like features, and if he dared to smile wide, the boy would see his pointed teeth that shined like fangs.

But this was decisively not the werewolf he had pictured.

The boy tentatively reached out for the tip of the cane, and Javert allowed him to take it from him. The boy held it like a sword across both palms, feeling its weight in his tiny hands and squeezed it with curiosity. It was wooden and black and carved with tiny details that, from afar, simply blended into its uniform length. But up close, there were swirls and divettes and bevels that decorated it.

The boy held onto it steadfastly, and Javert felt the crease under his eyes upturning. It wasn’t quite a smile, but a softening of his gaze nonetheless. The gentler expressions stemmed the boy’s blubbering and reduced it to more of a sniffing and swallowing.

Next, Javert took hold of his hat again, pinching the brim and wordlessly beckoning the boy over with a tilt of his head.

The boy did, and once he was close enough for Javert to reach, the inspector placed the hat upon the boy’s head.

It slipped immediately over the boy's eyes, and his high, giggling laughter made Javert smile sincerely this time. He readjusted the hat so that it tilted back somewhat, and so the boy could see.

This made something in Javert’s chest strain with familiarity.

The boy looked just like him now. It made Javert smile, and in turn, the boy’s fear seemed to all but melt away.

“You would not lie, would you?” Javert asked, continuing to adjust the position of the hat.

The boy shook his head, slightly knocking it back. “No, Monsieur.”

Javert’s brow rose and he nodded in a show of approval.

“I shall ask, then. You are not an apple thief, are you?”

The boy hesitated, and then whispered with shame, holding up his fingers.

“I ate two.”

Javert did poorly to hide his amusement. He lowered his own voice to a similar whisper, and changed his cadence to something not so far removed from the way Mayor Madeleine spoke to these troubled orphans.

“Do you have proof?” He asked, his voice so hushed as if he expected some spy to intrude on them.

The boy didn’t seem to understand.

“I see no evidence that you have eaten any apples. Surely, I must have proof before I can arrest you.”

The boy blinked, and released one hand from its grip on the cane.

Javert almost laughed aloud when the boy pulled a squished up apple core from the depths of his pocket and held it out unabashedly.

Javert simply plucked it up by the stem, and flung it over the fence. This elicited another giggling fit from the boy.

“I see no evidence. I know of no apple thief here.”

•••

Mayor Madeleine had not yet finished his afternoon walk when he came upon an incredible sight in the town square.

Side by side, Javert walked with a street urchin — a small boy who’s hand was wrapped tightly around Javert’s leather-clad index finger. The boy swung Javert’s cane freely, and peered out upon the world from under the brim of Javert’s hat.

Madeleine had not quite pushed aside the possibility that he was finally losing his mind, when his eyes and Javert’s met.

Javert’s expression quickly stiffened as though he were to face a reprimand, though he continued to walk with the boy by his side.

Madeleine could not stop the awestruck smirk that began to creep across his face as the inspector drew closer.

The boy, now peering up from below the brim of the hat, suddenly recognised the Mayor, and tore away from Javert in his direction.

Javert’s gloved hand hung purposeless now beside him, and he tucked it away into his pocket to distract from the sting of the loss. He almost felt… disappointed that the boy would run from him to Mayor Madeleine, but then again, all of the town’s children adored their Mayor, and most if not all despised and feared the Inspector. Was this not to be expected?

Madeleine lifted the boy into his arms and noted the hat and the cane with much grandeur.

“What a smart young man,” He praised. “Such a proper hat and robust cane could only belong to a terribly respectable gentleman.”

The compliments were not lost on Javert, especially when Madeleine looked to him on those final words and smiled. Javert let go of a tight breath he did not realize he was holding, and allowed himself to relax.

The boy, now piqued by some sort of realization, patted his hand against Madeleine’s chest and was returned to the cobbles.

He ran with a bounce between the three or so metres that separated Javert and Madeleine, and stopped before Javert with his head turned upward. He held up the cane high above his head, and Javert took it from him. Javert could have taken the hat too in another swift movement, but he waited for the boy to remove it himself and offer it’s return.

“Thank you.” The boy said.

Between him and Javert alone, the thanks extended beyond the half an hour or so of playing pretend policeman and learning the laws of the land. The apple juice in his pocket made the boy’s fingers stick together, and he didn’t like it.

“You are very welcome.” Javert replied, sharing between them a knowing glance, before waving the boy off back to Madeleine.

He was scooped back up promptly. Madeleine recognised the boy not just from the gaggle of urchins that hovered around the market stalls, but from the creche that the women working in his factory had started several months ago.

Madeleine knew his mother, and knew where it was that they lived. It took only a short walk to return the boy home, accompanied silently by the Inspector, who, stern-faced as ever, swung his cane with an amusing canter that made the boy grin and laugh the entire way.

•••

It was only later, when Madeleine was gathering up the last of his evening paperwork and filing it into his desk, that he queried Javert of that afternoon’s strange incident.

“He had stolen two apples, Monsieur.” Javert said plainly.

Madeleine was sure he had misheard, but when asked to repeat, Javert simply said the same.

“He showed me the core of one, and I tossed it away. I said he would not go to prison as long as he grew up to become a policeman, and we took a walk around the town.”

“You mean to say that… you did not…”

“Arrest him?”

There was a short pause as Javert gathered up Madeleine’s coat from the rack and offered it to him.

“No, I could not.”

“But- thank you, - but why? Why couldn’t you?”

Javert thought for a moment, and smirked.

“Monsieur le Maire, I had no evidence.”

“But you caught those boys eating stolen apples in the square!”

“Entirely circumstantial that my captive happened to be in the vicinity of thieves.”

“He showed you the cores of the apples he ate.” Madeleine said with a brow raised so high in incredulity that Javert could not help but huff a silent chuckle.

“He could have obtained those apples anywhere. There is no way of knowing for certain that they were from the… basket of stolen apples. Who’s to say that they were not already cored by some other patron of apples, and he simply retrieved them from the ground?”

Javert changes his tone to that of mock offense.

“Monsieur, it pains me that you would think I am the kind of law man to make an arrest without reasonable warrant.”

Madeleine’s amusement only grew.

“Unbelievable. What has happened to you, Javert, that your morals have been shaken so?”

Javert did not answer right away. He moved to open the office door but was stopped by a light grip around his wrist.

The grip loosened almost immediately until Madeleine had let go again, but it was enough to guide Javert’s full attention to his Mayor.

“Maybe, I have been influenced by my superiors.”

“Could that be so, Inspector?”

Madeleine closed the short distance between them and placed a chaste kiss on Javert’s cheek.

“Monsieur le Maire.” Javert mouthed. It was hardly audible enough to be called a whisper. 

“You taste sweet.” Madeleine hummed, before placing a second kiss on Javert’s opposite cheek.

A light flush appeared upon the Inspector’s sharp face. He had thought himself used to Madeleine’s displays of affection and appreciation. It had been long enough, almost a year to adjust — it was a courtesy Madeleine performed with all those who pleased him. And yet, Javert still found a gentle heat rising up his face even now. He rested two fingers against the skin where Madeleine’s lips had been pressed, and turns his face away.

”What a wonder it is that you seem to have grown a heart. Let us see you put it to use more often.”

Madeleine spoke without a thought in the world toward what such a sentence might do to Javert. Already, that tense feeling of confusion was straining in his ribcage again, thrumming with some sort of electricity that drew upon joy and misery all at once.

He didn’t understand it. “I shall try.” 

They walked down the factory steps outside, side by side. The lowering sun was not quite blushing its brightest red. Instead, it dusted everything around them with a halo of pink and blue.

It was only after a little while of travelling down that warm street that Madeleine spoke again, lacing up Javert’s pinky finger with his own. The former didn’t resist. Madeleine muttered something over once or twice, before nodding assuredly to himself and looking to his Inspector.

”As sweet as apples.”