Title: dost thou not feel fed?
Work ID: 51487693
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Overstimulation, Hand Jobs, Anal Play, Mild Praise Kink, Madeleine Era, Ficlet, Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot, Mildly Dubious Consent, Kinktober 2023, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables), Prostate Milking
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Javert gasped; the long, taut lines of his body trembling against the bedsheets as Madeleine’s hips began to slow in their languid thrusting at the apex of Javert’s splayed legs, Javert biting down on his lower lip at the sensation of spreading warmth deep within him. With another rock of Madeleine’s hips, another burst of heat from Madeleine’s release, Javert was wailing; clutching at Madeleine’s shoulders, burying his face into Madeleine’s neck—Javert’s own climax catching him off-guard as he came in long spurts across his stomach.

Carefully, the mayor pulled back—withdrawing gently from the tight, wet grip of Javert’s passage, still throbbing around Madeleine’s spent length; until the head of Madeleine’s cock popped out of Javert’s hole with a filthy squelch and a rush of Madeleine’s seed.

Javert moaned softly at the loss of the length inside of him, and shifted at the feeling of Madeleine’s spend oozing out of his hole and down his legs, smearing along his thighs and staining the sheets beneath.

Madeleine, still tucked between Javert’s knees, gazed down at the other man: Javert’s spread and shaking limbs, his quivering muscles and pebbled nipples, Javert’s cock spasming as he released a final gush of fluid. Javert lay quiescent between the cage of Madeleine’s arms, beneath the press of Madeleine’s pelvis against his own; his heaving lungs and thundering heartbeat beginning to calm, sweat cooling on Javert’s skin.

Madeleine slowly lifted one hand from its place on the bedspread beside Javert, to reach out and trail his fingertips through the dribble of Javert’s spend and brush against the silky, sensitive skin of Javert’s cock.

Javert squirmed at Madeleine’s touch, so soon after his release. His nerve endings were still alight and jangling with a sharp, bright pleasure that could easily become pain if pushed too far. Javert’s legs slid from their place at Madeleine’s hips to fall open on either side of Madeleine’s body, and his hands clutched at the bed as Javert turned to look at the mayor with eyes gone wet and heavy in the final moments of coupling.

“Monsieur le Maire,” Javert said, voice uncertain as Madeleine’s fingers began to curl around his length; he was not so young a man anymore. “I am still—”

“It will be all right, Javert,” Madeleine murmured, the hand around Javert’s cock tightening for but a moment. “I’ve got you. You’ll see.”

“Monsieur le Maire,” Javert whimpered again, his spent cock twitching feebly against Madeleine’s palm, breath hissing as the mayor gave his oversensitive length a firm stroke. Javert twisted under the weight of the mayor’s body, fighting the desire to move away from that touch—too much, too soon, he couldn’t yet, he needed more time—and the unconscious desire to adhere to Madeleine’s soft-spoken reassurances and subtle commands.

Javert tossed his head, the other man’s fingers continuing to trail lightly over the abused flesh of his softened cock. Madeleine alternated between deft strokes along Javert’s length, a thumb pressed under the glans, a light tug against his foreskin, a palm cupped beneath Javert’s sac—and Javert sobbed outright, pressing his face into the pillow as he cried, “Please, Monsieur le Maire, I can’t, I can’t…”

“Shhh,” Madeleine soothed. “You’re doing so well, Inspector. You have no idea how lovely you look, just like this.”

And Javert did look lovely to the mayor’s eyes, writhing against the mattress; helpless tears—usually only glimpsed briefly in the scant minutes before Javert’s release—now tracking freely down Javert’s temples to mingle in the riotous tangle of Javert’s hair. Javert did not seem to know what to do with his body; instinctively shying away from Madeleine’s touch, even as he pressed himself forward to meet the mayor’s grasping hands, simply because Madeleine had asked him to.

Javert could not yet harden fully, but with Madeleine’s patient tugs and steady grip around the flaccid length, Javert could feel the first, tentative thrums of heat pulsing through his cock once more. Javert’s legs scrambled against the bedding, still spread at the knees, his nails clawing into the sheets beneath him to feel his sore, tender cock trying vainly to stir under the mayor’s touch, so soon, so quickly; to feel the drag of skin against his chafed length over, and over—past pleasure and past pain and into something else entirely. Javert bucked up into Madeleine’s grip, unable to pull away, wanting desperately for relief, for mercy—

“Please,” Javert babbled, a faint flush tinting his cheeks. “Please, I can’t, I need—” but the words caught, lost between his kiss-bitten lips, because what did he need? For the mayor to stop? For the mayor to never stop? His body felt like it belonged to someone else, offered up and hollowed out and slowly, carefully taken apart; rent to pieces within Madeleine’s inexorable, endless, unyielding grasp.

Javert blinked against the hot prick of tears pooling in the corners of his eyes again, his cock half-hard and thumping faintly in the mayor’s broad palm. Madeleine’s strokes were even and unforgiving and inescapable as Javert felt something building, strung-out and wrung dry and exhausted, trembling, and it was too much, too much, too much—

And then: Madeleine shuffled to balance on his knees, his other hand moving between the sprawl of Javert’s legs. Madeleine dragged his fingers through his own spend cooling on Javert’s thighs, and pushed his seed back inside Javert’s hole.

“Monsieur—!” Javert cried, his back bending forward; his cock quivering in Madeleine’s grasp, hardening fully in slow, throbbing waves that rippled down his length, his balls, the constricting heat of his insides. Madeleine bit down on a smile in response as he continued to nudge thick, sticky swipes of his seed into Javert’s red and swollen furl, until two of Madeleine’s slick fingers were slipping back inside Javert and he was pressing, searching, seeking out that familiar bump along the smooth walls of Javert’s hole.

Javert was wide-eyed, reaching blindly for anything to grab onto—Madeleine’s arms, the sheets, the bedframe—as Madeleine found Javert’s prostate with all the ease of experience, and determinedly, deliberately began to rub unforgiving circles against the sensitive nub in time with his strokes along the delicate skin of Javert’s cock.

“Oh—oh, Monsieur, please, not there,” Javert gasped, his gaze distant, his eyes glassy. His cock twitched and jumped against Madeleine’s hand, the muscles of Javert’s legs jerking involuntarily with each drag of the mayor’s thumb over his prostate. “Oh,” Javert said again, as Madeleine pressed firmly against the swollen gland, as Madeleine fucked Javert’s stretched, slick hole with his fingers. Javert caught his lower lip between his teeth, his protestations bleeding away with each plunge of Madeleine’s fingers within him.

Javert felt the rising tide of his release, tight and aching and immediate; growing and expanding in the depths of his stomach, along his cock, creeping up the base of his spine. Madeleine withdrew his fingers just far enough to tug at the glistening rim of Javert’s hole before sinking deeply back inside, and Javert’s cock leapt against Madeleine’s hand, moisture beading at the slit. 

“That’s it,” Madeleine whispered, “You’re doing beautifully, Inspector.”

He massaged the small nub buried inside Javert at the same time he squeezed around the head of Javert’s cock, Madeleine’s touch weighted down like iron shackles while Javert shook apart, caught between Madeleine’s hand on his cock and Madeleine’s fingers thrust past the puckered skin of his furl. Javert could hear himself, as if from very far away—the strange, wrecked sounds he was burying in the pillowcase, the ragged panting of his voice as he whimpered, “Monsieur… le Maire, I think… I think, I’m…”

“I just need you to give me a little more,” Madeleine said; coaxing, gentle. “I know you can—you’ve done so well, you’re so good for me, Javert—”

And Javert was wailing, crying out, thrashing against the bedclothes. He raised his hips in aborted, convulsive thrusts, chasing after the curl of Madeleine’s fingers around his cock, and again Javert was coming—painfully, helplessly, blissfully. The mayor wrung out a few thin, pitiful pulses of fluid from the tip of Javert’s spasming cock, clear and liquid where they spilled over Madeleine’s fist. Javert groaned, feeling like his entire body had been pulled inside-out to offer those few spurts of his emission into Madeleine’s waiting hands.

“Lovely,” Madeleine praised, sucking Javert’s seed from his fingertips with a pleased hum. “As always, you exceed my expectations, Inspector.”