Title: End Racism in the OTW
Work ID: 46376716
Author: DarkKingOfSpades
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Morning After, Morning Cuddles, Angst, very minimal comfort but equally very minimal angst, Regret, this certainly is. a forey into the fandom, Pre-Slash, not quite but sort of post seine, Implied Sexual Content
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Oh Jesus. Oh sweet Jesus, what had he done? 

 

Javert lay in a bed that was not his own, shirt barely covering his chest, with one foot cold and hanging out from under the covers. The other half of his body was being held in an iron shackle’s grasp by a warm blooded convict.

 

Valjean. Curse Valjean. He should’ve taken the Seine.

 

He stared at the ceiling, counting not his blessings but his woes. Him! In bed with Jean Valjean! Let some poor fool wake him from this nightmare. But no. If this were a nightmare, both of Javert’s feet would be cold.

 

Should the gall be that he slept with a man? Hardly. Sodomy was not against the law, and that was as far as Javert was willing to think about it. This sordid deed held no weight in his virtues. Were he to bed any other man, it would not be a crime. But oh how it should be beneath him! He was the law, just and balanced on the scales of guilt and innocence! This beast of flesh ought to disperse itself like the vermin scuttle away as he wolfishly stalks the streets. He should be exempt from the temptress of man. And yet here he lies after the throes of passion with a man. 

 

But to lay with a convict? He ought to hand in his resignation to life right now. He ought to have done so the second damned Jean le Cric held his existence in one hand and a revolutionary's firearm in the other. Probably should’ve ended himself when Valjean held his prick— no, definitely not.

 

The warm body next to him shifted, gripping Javert ever closer in naive comfort. Surely Javert could be considered nothing but stone cold; a marble statue of indifference and incapable of any mild temperature above freezing. Valjean placed a large palm across his barely concealed chest, and Javert tried his best not to have an aneurysm as well as a crisis.

 

Tanned flesh, unseemly for a mayor– whose skin would normally be the upper class paper pale– but fitting for the toil that the sleeping giant before him had withstood. Thick calluses nestled upon the inside of the right middle finger where the scratch of a quill nib wrote its mark and on the pads of his palm where ropes, tools, and beams taught discipline and torment. A hand that knew cruelty, yet held him softly last night. A wrist with scars from clapped irons. Could one limb be separated so deftly? Let this one part of Valjean be dissected into correct and corrupt.

 

To look over at curly white hair would be to face defeat. Perhaps he could pretend, hide, shelter his mind: pretend it was some other convict he bedded in a fit of suicidal desperation. May mercy allow him to stare at the ceiling, ignore his wrongdoings, ignore the sin he had committed by not restraining Valjean the second he could. But mercy was a fool’s folly, a bittersweet lie that was spat at the poor and stupid by the likes of idiots.

 

But maybe to look over would be to see white haloed by morn’s golden rays.

 

Jean le Cric, the escape artist of Toulon. Would it be too much to ask for Valjean to escape out of his life for more than a year? Or was fate so hell bent on him making Javert's blood boil with failure.

 

Javert's entire life had turned to failure. He was caught out by a child! A revolutionary child! And now he was in the bed of a convict. This was a rest– not an effective arrest. 

 

His eyes drifted over. Slowly, his breath light, he rolled his head over to gaze at the saint Valjean. How could such a holy being bring such turmoil to his mind? His sleeping disposition could quell the raging river Seine's hungry roaring maw. A beast with the face of a kicked puppy and claws filed until they were sharp as feathers.

 

Disgusting. A wolf in sheep's clothing would never mellow his lawful soul. This visage of veritas would not destroy him as much as the man himself vexed Javert.

 

Sharply, Javert threw himself away from the warmth of his closest star, shucking the covers off of everything but his still cold foot.

 

Valjean whimpered at the loss and reached out towards him.

 

Was this the man he was? Was Javert going to sleep around and leave like some common whore? To think that he would lay about like the grotesque men, plucking any cretin they please as long as it had a hole to fill, then sweep off without a care. He respected Valjean once under a different name, took the firm hand upon his shoulder when deferring to Monsieur Madeleine; what cause had he to shove the grasping hand that gave him warmth when the night was cold?

 

"Inspector?" Muttered the slowly rousing man beside him, equally unclothed and bedraggled. 

He could not let him fall. "I am here." He spoke softly. As soft as he could manage in the swirling of his mental hurricane. He had only had mental confusion for less than a day, and he could say he thoroughly thought he hated it.

"What are you doing? Lay yourself back down; it is cold." Valjean made another sweeping grab.

"I will only make you colder. I am gathering my items. Farewell Valjean."

"Javert stop. Please do not act rashly now," Valjean said. Perhaps if Javert had known about Valjean's own inability to make well thought out decisions, he may have barked a harsh laugh at the man before him. As it was, he continued to ignore Valjean's words the same, but baselessly instead.

 

Gathering his clothes from the floor was embarrassing and undignified. His uniform was crumpled and, were his resolve not absolute, his legs felt such an ache they might meet the same crumpled, on the floor state. The dull pain reminded him of how he was laid bare, shown ugly and intimate parts alike in care. But this care meant nothing. It had to mean nothing. This was simply resultant stress getting to both men, and they would both be on their way soon. Valjean to whatever convicts do in later life and Javert to Hell, most likely, for fraternising with the enemy and besmirching a saintly sinner.

 

Valjean stared at his bare ass, unimpressed. "Javert, what are you doing?"

"Leaving." He responded curtly, "I am told it is a thing people do."

"Yes, of course." Valjean speciously agreed, "If they are cowards."

"Do not attempt to use my pride against me, 24601, I have very little left now." He bit and snarled.

"Forget your pride! Have some decency instead and lie down." Valjean barked back and Javert wilted a little but still stood defiantly.

"I will not be fooled twice to lie beside you, 2460—"

"You did not moan those numbers at me last night, you will not shout them at me now. Sit down." Valjean did not yell, but he held an assertiveness that was impressive for a half naked man. 

 

Javert sat down. Valjean crooked an eyebrow at him. Javert lay down.

 

"Right. Good." Valjean muttered to himself. "Do you take breakfast now, or do you still believe snuff is compensation for a meal?"

"Do you cook or was the bread stolen to hide your inability?"

"And here I thought you could learn to appreciate generosity." He pretended to muse, chuckling as he spoke.

"I generously hoped you would let me leave," Javert bitterly shot back.

Valjean grinned. "Fourteen years for trying to escape."

 

"I cannot remain, you fool. Such daft ideas. This ought to have never happened." Javert began to twist to get up but Valjean trapped him amidst strong arms. Perhaps this was meant to comfort him; a tender embrace between Valjean's… admittedly well toned arms. Strong and supportive. Maybe supple. He could hold Javert firm against— no, most definitely not.

Valjean hummed wearily, unaware of Javert’s active—infernal—imagination. . "It has happened, as such as God intended. So it must be, and so it has been."

"What good does that do us?! What does that fix?!" Javert bolted upwards, dragging the other man with him. "Does 'it happened' revoke a sentence? Does it revive dead men; lay to rest an uprising of the people? Does it fix  this , Valjean?"

He was stunned, but slowly, carefully said, "What is there that needs fixing?"

"Everything!" Javert growled in the back of his throat, "Have you become senile? Where is the man who evaded me? Perhaps he would see that he should be chained and prosecuted! And I? I have become nothing more than a laughing stock of a policeman!"

"And the solution? I'm afraid I am running out of places in France to hide from you and for you to then find me in a month's time."

"I doubt I could find you from the bottom of the Seine." Javert grumbled to himself.

Valjean stared at him furiously, his eyes wide in horror. His face flicked through too many emotions: distress, worry, anger so ferocious that Javert almost flinched. Each twitch of muscle so small yet significant in his disgust at the inspector's words. The arms still holding onto him were taught as bowstrings ready to fire, clinging like a child to a china doll.

Yet in this anguish, Jean Valjean took the brave and steadying breath that Javert could not in the maelstrom of self hatred. "We will find out what happens come tomorrow. We may fix things tomorrow. Rest now."

The fight left Javert's body in a dilapidated wheeze and he allowed himself to be cradled once again. Then finally, with both feet under the covers, he rested beside the convict Jean Valjean.