Title: Erosion
Work ID: 49983142
Author: Lady_of_the_Refrigerator
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert (Perkins) - Freeform, Valjean (Jordan) - Freeform, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables), Top Jean Valjean, Wall Sex, Hate Sex, First Time, Enemies to Lovers, Shameless Smut
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

There was a moment, however brief, after Inspector Javert caught up with Jean Valjean in the hallway outside the sick woman’s room, where the man’s carefully cultivated mask slipped and Javert was once again staring into the surly visage of prisoner number 24601. 

Valjean recovered swiftly enough that anyone unfamiliar with his origins would pass the gaffe off as the result of annoyance or exhaustion or worry. Javert, of course, knew better—and so soon would everyone. The man’s well-kempt hair and whiskers, his fine but modest clothing, his meek and taciturn demeanor would no longer disguise the scoundrel within. 

“Good evening, Inspector,” said Valjean, with a casual tone that made the hair on Javert’s neck stand on end. The gall of this man, to carry on in this manner as if he could fool Javert! As if he had ever fooled him! Javert clenched his jaw as Valjean continued, “What an unusual yet welcome surprise to see you paying visits to the sick and infirm. I am sure they will appreciate the company.”

“There is no need for dissembling. You know why I am here.” Taking Valjean firmly by the arm when he opened his mouth to argue the point, Javert added, “I care not if you planned to visit with your pet streetwalker tonight, you will come with me at once.”

Valjean’s gaze shifted past Javert to the pair of armed guards who flanked him. “I should like to speak with you a moment, Inspector. In private, if you please.” He gestured towards the open door across the hall from the woman’s room. “I would rather not disturb Fantine with this unpleasantness.”

Valjean began to head in the direction he had indicated before Javert even had time to agree or disagree, but because Javert had not let go of his arm, he had little recourse but to follow or else Valjean might duck inside the unknown room and disappear before Javert or his men learned what dangers lurked within it. 

One of Javert’s men seemed to think it also a risk for Javert to enter the room with Valjean by himself, but Javert was willing to take the chance in order to make a collar as formidable as this. The guard knew better than to question Javert outright, but his concern was plain on his face nonetheless. Javert waved him off, and shut the door.

Alone now, Javert was loath to admit he did not know quite what to expect from Valjean. Verbal pleading was a given, of course, but the man was still perilously strong and had several escape attempts under his belt. And there was, of course, the matter of his sacred promise.

Valjean, for his part, regarded Javert silently in the dying golden light of sunset from the window at the far side of the room.

“Well?” Javert prompted. “I would have thought if you would go so far as to request a private audience with myself when you know you are caught, you would be poised to fabricate a pitiful sob story without delay.”

“What I wish to discuss is neither sob story nor fabrication,” Valjean said. “I must travel to retrieve the poor woman’s child from the innkeepers with whom she has left her. Three days and I will return to you and pay my debts.”  

“In decades, I have not heard such a transparent ploy to avoid justice. How bold you are to pretend at magnanimity to save your own skin!”

“I ask this not to spare myself! Come with me, if you will not take me at my word, and we shall rescue her together.”

“You must think me gullible—only a bleeding heart of a fool would allow you any conditions whatsoever that may facilitate your escaping yet again.”

“Lock me away then and fetch the girl yourself—it matters little who does the fetching, only that she is saved.” He held out his wrists, waiting for Javert to shackle them; Javert eyed them with deep suspicion, half braced for Valjean use the offer as a misdirect to attack. 

“You expect me to believe you will come without a fight if I acquiesce to your request?”

“The girl’s safety matters more than my freedom—if my lack of struggle should convince you to do what I cannot, it would be well worth it.”

“What good would it do? That woman is deathly ill and could not care for her brat regardless of your lofty notions of her safety.”

“The girl is an innocent, and undeserving of suffering! You resent what I have done, that is fair enough, but I beg you not allow her to be abandoned to spite me.”

“Was she not already abandoned years ago?” 

The words had barely left Javert’s lips when Valjean had taken hold of him and advanced until Javert’s back collided with the far wall. The movement was not rough enough to knock the wind from Javert’s lungs, but only just. 

“A return to form,” Javert said. “I should not be surprised.”

All struggle ceased at once, almost as if Valjean had been doused in ice water and suddenly managed to rein in the impulse to cause great bodily harm to Javert in the effort to overtake him.

“What do you mean?”

“You once promised to kill me—I have not forgotten. Today is to be the happy day you throw off your veneer of civility and do the deed?”

Valjean took a step back but kept a hand flat against the middle of Javert’s chest, ensuring he could not come away from the wall to grapple again for control.

“Your impassiveness is impressive, Javert. One could almost read excitement from your lack of dread when faced with the prospect of me fulfilling my promise. Or are you so indifferent to your own death?”

“My eventual death is of little consequence,” he said. “One wonders why you have waited until now to carry out your promise instead of orchestrating an unlucky incident to befall me before I had the chance to denounce you.”

“It may come as a surprise to you that my every waking moment is not dedicated to the thought of revenge, since it appears your every waking moment is dedicated to the thought of capturing me. Why, if I might ask? Why should I engender such zealousness from you? Surely there are more dangerous men for you to hunt.”

“More dangerous, mayhap, but none are more brazen than yourself. For a convict to aspire to become a captain of industry and a magistrate… You must have laughed heartily at all those you deceived as you counted your millions.” 

“Think ill of me—I do not care. Think me the devil himself if you must. But this girl might soon be alone in this world and is in grave need of help, Javert. Are you truly made of stone enough that her plight does not move you to compassion?” 

Javert stared down at the hand on his chest, still holding him firmly to the wooden panelling with very little effort. “If any man is made of stone, surely it is you, with your devilish strength.”

“I am not stone. No man is fully stone, he may only wish to be.” Valjean looked up and met his eyes, a transparent pleading in his gaze. “There must be something that moves you. Something which would cause you to choose honor over duty. Every man has his line, Javert. Even you.”

“Most men are weak, then, in spirit if not in body. One must remain disciplined in one’s principles or face one’s inevitable fall,” Javert said. “You think me immovable and consider it folly, but I consider it a virtue beyond most others to be uncompromising.”

“You are wrong. I don’t think you are immovable. I don’t think you are made of stone, not even if you wish to be. If you were, you would have taken the reprimand regarding my jurisdiction over Fantine and carried on. Rage, too, is an emotion, even if it is not a tender one.”

“I was right to question you, I now know for certain, seeing as you have used the powers of your ill-gotten position to carve out special treatment for your fellow lawbreakers—”

“I showed mercy to a helpless woman in an attempt to right a wrong I perpetrated—”

“I am supposed to believe you care one whit for the workers you turn away from your factory? There are always more workers, no need to worry over their fates once they have gone.”

“All of us are not as able to remain as unshakeable as you, Javert, when faced with the harm we have caused.”

“I cause no harm to innocents, unlike yourself,” Javert said, pushing back on Valjean’s accusations both verbally and physically; neither method was particularly fruitful, for Valjean resisted Javert’s attempts to overpower him with ease.

“What stone you are, wrestling with me over a perceived slander!” Valjean again shoved him bodily against the wall, but faltered slightly, his attention slipping downwards for a moment before rising to his face. “Perhaps here, though, you are stone,” he said, near to thunderstruck.

Ah. 

And so Javert’s unfortunate secret was unspoken no longer. 

He surprised himself by feeling little shame—but in truth, was it a secret which had been buried very deep at all? Really, it was more of a relief to have his proclivity revealed to its most prominent target. Perhaps after tonight it might be purged from him. 

The purging of it had not yet occurred, however. Javert felt himself throb at the sensation of Valjean’s body pressed warmly against his and he fought off the impulse to push closer still. It was odd, he thought, that Valjean had not shied his hips away at the first contact and that oddness sparked intrigue as to the reason. Would not most men find such a discovery repulsive? Yet Valjean had not. If anything, he seemed flustered by it.

Valjean took a shaky breath as a flush crept over his cheeks. “Why?” he asked.

Javert very nearly laughed. Such a simple word. A simple question. A lifetime worth of justifications.

“The love of the chase,” Javert said, and then he wrenched his neck forward so he could claim Valjean’s mouth roughly. Valjean, who expected only a purposeful collision meant to stupefy, gasped in surprise, and Javert took advantage of the moment to swipe his tongue inside his mouth.

Rather than pull away, Valjean settled more weight on him, pinning him soundly to the wall from chest to knee. Javert could not have bucked him off even if he had wanted to, though in that moment, it was the furthest thing from his mind. No, all of his thoughts were caught up in the knowledge that Valjean took pains to return his attentions moment for moment, his kisses just as unpracticed, just as heady, with just as much desperation hidden a hair’s breadth below the surface. 

What an unexpected turn of events to have Valjean’s mouth on his after all these years! Javert would have guessed that a man who hated him enough to crave his death would never stoop to engaging with him in acts such as these. He would have thought such a move a mere tactic to divert him from his duty, but Javert’s head began to swim when he registered the length of Valjean’s prick growing stiff where they pressed together.

“What is your excuse for this?” Javert asked as Valjean rocked against him and mouthed at the vulnerable skin above his high collar, below his jaw. “The thought of having me at your mercy excites you?”

“Not in the way you think, I expect.”

Valjean then found a particularly sensitive spot on Javert’s neck and Javert threw his head back, colliding dully with the wall. His hat, already partly dislodged with their kisses, fell to the ground.

“This from a man who vowed to take my life,” he said, grasping tightly to Valjean’s coat as he repeated his attentions upon the spot, only just barely restraining himself from pulling Valjean close again when the other man leaned back to meet his gaze.

“You are right. I did vow to take your life. I find outside of Toulon I no longer harbor the desire. However…” Valjean’s eyes dropped to Javert’s mouth. “Perhaps a little death would not be amiss?” 

Javert’s stomach jumped; he studied Valjean’s face and found no promise of violence in it, only the haze of lust, which indeed appeared rather foreign upon the mayor’s open, handsome face. Valjean’s meaning, then, was clear enough, and so, too, was Javert’s understanding of it. 

“Do you object?” Valjean asked.

The air in the room had fallen thick with a different tension than what had been present when their tête-à-tête had begun. Javert did not trust his voice under these abnormal circumstances, so he shook his head.

Valjean nodded, darting forward to steal a kiss. He then began to pluck at the buttons of Javert’s long coat, making quick work of them and shoving the heavy garment off Javert’s shoulders with haste great enough that Javert did not even have time to feel he’d been trapped in a half-shed coat before it hit the floorboards. 

He felt the chill air in the unheated room for but a moment before Valjean was on him again, his lips drawing forth intoxication the likes of which Javert had rarely felt, for he saw no benefit to overindulging in drink, and he limited his use of snuff only to rare celebratory occasions. This new intoxication even drew his hands to Valjean’s face, not to injure or mark or push away, but to hold fast to him and maneuver him in such a way that he could devour even the most secret noises Valjean tried his damnedest to suppress.

An interminable amount of time later and Valjean broke the kiss, chest heaving. “Turn around,” he whispered against Javert’s mouth.

Javert swallowed hard, and when the weight against him lessened enough, he did as Valjean commanded. There was an unwise amount of trust involved in doing so—the man could easily knife him in the back with a hidden weapon, or wring his neck before he could even call for help from the guards in the hall. 

Neither happened. Instead, unsteady hands scrabbled from behind to undo Javert’s trousers, barely shoving them to mid-thigh before then scrabbling between their bodies to undo Valjean’s. Those same hands settled on Javert’s thin hips once they had finished their task, more grounding than restricting. The thumbs traced a curious pattern into his flesh, as if attempting to map the stark lines of his body. 

Such unfamiliar attention might have brought great shame upon Javert if Valjean’s bare prick wasn’t pressed hotly in the space between his thighs, smearing fluid on his trembling flesh as Valjean pushed his hips in mindless little thrusts.

It felt exquisite—filthy and debauched, the sort of thing Javert dared not allow himself to long for purposefully, relegating it to the realm of his wildest dreams—but it was not enough. Not enough to justify this lapse from him. If Javert were to bend enough for this interlude to occur at all, he should bend, or else why bother? 

Better to be hanged for a sheep as a lamb. Better to be damned by action than by mere fantasy.

“Valjean,” he said, sharp.

“Uh?” Valjean uttered, more distracted than Javert could ever remember having witnessed before. He felt a perverse surge of pride at the thought that he had at last found a chess board upon which he and Valjean might be equal players, and a surge of lust at the knowledge that Valjean’s interest also matched his own.

“Inside,” he urged, arching so Valjean’s prick slid against him just so, shooting stars behind his eyes. “Use tallow from the candle.”

Valjean hesitated. “Why?”

“I know there is pleasure to be found in the act,” Javert said. “Is it not enough that I desire it?”

“You won’t shout for your guards as soon as my… offenses have become more severe?”

Javert shook his head, sweat dripping from his hair with the movement. “I have no wish nor cause to cry wolf to my guards, or to become a laughingstock in their eyes for being overpowered by you in this way. Dally no longer, or they’ll become impatient and interrupt regardless. As you say, the charges against you would worsen if they catch us, for they would not believe I have allowed this by any means. Best not let that happen.”

“But you have allowed it. You acknowledge that to me if not to them?”

“I acknowledge it.”

Valjean hummed his approval against the back of Javert’s neck, reaching for the closest candle. He circled Javert’s entrance with a pair of sturdy fingers, coating him with the grease that had come off with the heat of his hand. 

A bit more pressure, a coaxing towards relaxation, and the pads of Valjean’s fingers began to sink inside, and then the tips. For an unyielding man, Javert’s body seemed eager to yield in this particular manner. The stretch that soon followed threatened to overwhelm Javert’s senses; he grunted at the intrusion as each broad joint stretched him further.

“Quiet yourself,” Valjean said. 

Each plunge of Valjean’s fingers made the passage less taxing on Javert and more pleasurable than he would have imagined it to be. It was maddening to behold, yet wildly informative. He at last understood, perhaps for the very first time, why so many lost themselves when faced with the promise of such an experience. His own guilty attentions upon himself left him underwhelmed and shame-filled, and so he did not oft allow himself to entertain them.

“I shall endeavor to contain myself if you’ll get on with it,” he bit out.

Javert felt the loss of Valjean’s curious fingers for only a moment before they were replaced with the slick, blunt head of his prick, poised to begin to ease its way inside. 

Again, his mind swam. This was the moment. Valjean would have him, and he would let him, and he would only live on due to his firm grasp of the knowledge that there was no other he would ever permit to see him this way.

Valjean had loomed large in his life for ages now, across time and distance. He was unique in his ability to stir Javert’s passions beyond the primal thrill of the hunt and now he would be unique in his success in tempting him from his chastity. If it were meant to happen at any point in Javert’s life, better it be with Valjean. At least he was a worthy foil.

All of Javert’s attention converged to focus on a single point as Valjean guided himself into his ready body, steadily pushing forward as he pulled Javert back onto him with the hand he had splayed across his abdomen until they were flush together.

He took a moment to gather himself once he was fully seated, hot breath tickling as it washed over Javert’s damp skin. His weight was heavy at Javert’s back—heavy, but not threatening the way Javert had always envisioned a man in his position might be. Valjean seemed far too caught up in the pleasure of it all to be inordinately harsh or forceful. Javert would not allow himself to consider the possibility it was merely not in Valjean’s character to be savage as a lover.

Javert barely managed to stifle a noisy gasp when Valjean at last began to move properly and settle into a rhythm. He could hardly get enough of the novel sensations, the sweet, deep heat and aching stretch, the occasional twinge of pain from Valjean’s fingernails digging a bit too tightly into his hip or the flesh of his thigh…

“Oh, Javert, this is very good,” came Valjean’s voice, a mumbled mantra in his ear. “Yes, it’s very good.”

Javert’s eyes fell shut while his mind supplied an image of what they must look like, shunted against the wall with their trousers tangled around their thighs, writhing together the way he’d seen other men do, stealing away into darkened corners in the prison, furtive at the end of damp, dank cobblestone alleys in Paris… None so daring as this, with only an unlocked door between them and the guards poised to drag Valjean away in shackles.

“More,” he moaned softly. “Good God, man, give me more. What convict makes tender love with his hunter?”

“I suppose this night only proves me a beast in your eyes,” Valjean said, and if Javert did not know better, he would have said he sounded regretful. Nonetheless, he drove forward with more vigor as Javert had requested, but still with the perverse gentleness of the mayor, the care of the convict who would risk his life to save another and only fight when cornered.

“If you are a beast for taking, then what am I for begging for it?” Javert asked, breathless, as he matched Valjean’s movements, bracing himself against the wooden panelling so he could push back and take him deeper.

“You wanted me even then, didn’t you? Years ago, in the prison? You have always wanted me.”  

“I won’t deny it. I may burn as a sodomite, but I shall not burn as a liar.”

Valjean closed his hand around Javert’s prick and Javert swore; Valjean chuckled at the sound, stroking down Javert’s length as he might do his own.

“What if we had come to this before? Would you have put this in me?” he asked. “Or did you always want me to take you instead?”

Images flashed in Javert’s mind’s eye, old fantasies he had not contemplated in years. Images where he, Javert, filled the role of one of those lucky, unlucky men Valjean had risked life and limb for in Toulon. Images of slipping from a high wall and Valjean pulling him from the waters below, hovering over him, concerned. 

Maybe Javert would have found him later, alone, to offer a grudging thank you, as was the honorable thing to do, even if he was a convict. Maybe Valjean would have told him he hadn’t only saved him because it was right to do, maybe the thought of Javert’s death did not bring him joy or satisfaction. No, maybe he would rather find his satisfaction in other ways, ways Javert was all too willing to facilitate.

Revisiting these guilty fantasies while being buggered by the man in question proved to be too much for Javert’s fragile control. He spilled over Valjean’s fist with a gasp, his spend spattering the panelling in front of him in shameful stripes.

After he had wrung Javert dry, Valjean pressed a kiss to his sweat-slick neck, the gentle intimacy of the gesture tightening Javert’s chest. Never. Never in his life had he experienced such a thing. Javert pounded his fist into the wall, just once, but it was loud enough to be heard outside the room.

“Monsieur l'inspecteur, are you in need of assistance?”

“No, I have everything quite under control.”

“You are sure—”

“For God’s sake, man, leave me be. I will be with you soon enough.”

Valjean’s prick was still thick in his bottom. Not an uncomfortable presence by any means, but all the more conspicuous to Javert after already finding his own release. It set what had just transpired in stark relief. There was no way to ignore the reality of it with such a prominent reminder buried inside his body.

“Have you not finished yet?” he said.

Valjean’s breath was ragged at his ear as he shook his head. “Your heat, Javert, is so intoxicating, I can hardly wish to leave it. I may not know much of the way of these things, but my body seems to know. It wishes to remain buried here for ages.”

“Don’t be a sentimental fool, Valjean. Sentimentality is not for men like us. We run short of time—they are breathing down our necks as surely as you are breathing down mine.”

Valjean’s hips had slowed to a crawl when Javert reached his peak and his hands were now busy mapping the sharp lines and gentle curves of Javert’s waist and torso, stealing away under the hemline of Javert’s shirttails. He had never been touched thus, with genuine interest and fascination, light and curious and teasing. If it continued for much longer, Javert ran the risk of again finding himself in an embarrassing state, because starved of such contact for so long as it had been, his body would be quick to demand more should it be offered. 

“You need not be so cautious with my person. I would not reveal what has transpired upon my deathbed, I certainly won’t present any bumps or bruises you may leave with me as evidence of your savagery.”

Valjean nuzzled at the damp hair at the nape of Javert’s neck. “It seems gauche to take my pleasure from you now that you have arrived.”

“I would rather you take your pleasure lest it mean I have only used you for mine.”

Javert felt Valjean’s lips curve into a smile against his skin. “A reasonable request.”

A hand moved around to the small of Javert’s back and pressed, encouraging him to bend at a lower angle than before. It stayed there, a firm reminder of Valjean’s strength, his virility, despite his age and the hard wear of years of prison labor. Javert felt his face flush at the show of dominance and his flush deepened with the knowledge that if he had not already found his release, he would have found it at that moment.

Good God… How far had he fallen, and how fast? Bested by a man who had his trousers down at his knees.

The new angle dragged Valjean’s prick over a particularly sensitive spot within him, causing him to clench and grip at it at every push and pull of Valjean’s hips. The added pressure must’ve heightened Valjean’s pleasure, for he began to lose his steady rhythm, and the careful control of the volume of his voice also began to fail him.

Javert twisted his head around, grabbing at the back of Valjean’s neck so he could take the man’s mouth and drink down the sounds of his climax.

When Valjean caught his breath and withdrew, Javert felt the absence acutely. If it would not have drawn his guards to witness him in such a compromising position, he would have pounded again at the wall until his fist was bruised and bloodied. How could this be so? How could a few short moments of temptation make him feel as he felt now?

He watched Valjean stoop to wipe away the evidence of Javert’s shame from the wall with a handkerchief. Why? By rights, he should be the one to make use of Javert’s weakness, wave around the proof of Javert’s perversity for all to see. But to reveal Javert’s perversity, he would also reveal his own… In a way, they were exactly as they started—bound to each other by time and circumstance.

Discreetly, Javert took his own handkerchief to his cleft to clean himself before straightening his clothing and tucked it away in a pocket, burning with the truth that he would not launder the square of fabric, but would keep it as a memento like some lovesick schoolboy. 

Pathetic. He should set fire to it immediately. Toss it into the sea. Tear it into strips. Anything but keep it, a remnant of a man who had haunted him for ages and would likely continue long after their paths diverged forever.

Valjean stood free and observed him quietly in the aftermath of their passion, as neither he nor Javert felt moved to restrain the other. Both knew what was to come. There was no doubt in it.

“I have but one question to ask before I go with you,” Valjean said, at last breaking the heavy silence. “Will you agree to answer it?”

“I make no promise, but you may proceed.”

“Why do this with me? Why allow it to happen when you could easily have called upon your guards and put a stop to it before it began?”

Javert was taken aback. He had not expected to be asked to explain himself, least of all to the only other person who knew what had just transpired. Whose own participation puzzled Javert to his core. No matter how hard he tried, words would not come.

Why had Valjean allowed these acts to come to pass? Why had he not shoved him aside the moment Javert had kissed him? He was strong enough.

Javert had no earthly idea why this day had happened. The only explanation he could offer was for his own actions—even if it might not be enough to satisfy Valjean’s curiosity—and it was this:

“If I’m never to see you again…” Javert let the sentence hang, unable to fully verbalize his meaning, but it mattered little. Something like sorrow filled Valjean’s eyes as he reached to cup Javert’s cheek. 

“So much for forsaking sentimentality,” the man said, and then he kissed him again—deep, aching, a goodbye if Javert had ever experienced one. 

Javert held fast to the back of Valjean’s skull, pouring every ounce of long suppressed hunger and frustration into the kiss. He felt himself dancing dangerously close to the edge of panic at the agony of loss coursing through him. He hadn’t thought of how he might feel at this crossroads because how he might feel held little relevance to justice. 

To see Valjean no more—that was surely the true punishment he had earned for this transgression.

But given the chance, what would he have done differently in order to avoid this moment? Surely nothing. 

Regardless of what little he could have tried to change, the whore would have still attacked the gentleman, Valjean would have still overruled Javert, Javert would have still denounced him. It was already too late to alter the trajectory of their lives when Valjean had disappeared beneath the surface of the waters around Toulon.

When Valjean at last pulled back, there was wetness on both of their cheeks. Javert was unsure if it had come from himself or Valjean, or perhaps the two of them together had reached a state so overwhelmed as to shed tears, and those tears had mingled.

“We must go,” Javert said, swiping harshly at the tracks down his cheeks. Valjean dabbed at his own more discreetly.

“Of course.”

Valjean walked alongside Javert as they approached the door to the hall. The room smelled of sweat and sex, and Javert was sure he and Valjean were only slightly less conspicuous. Still, better not to loiter near the scene of the crime, so to speak. He yanked open the door and, gripping Valjean around the upper arm again, dragged him into the hall.

Javert’s men eyed them warily. They itched to know what had transpired between them behind closed doors. Well, if they never knew, it would be too soon.

“I shall escort him,” Javert said. “Move along.”

It took little time to process Valjean at the station house. Javert could draw up the documents required in his sleep—which, to be honest, he might as well have been asleep for all he was hardly present in his body—and Valjean was docile enough while he waited. 

Javert personally escorted the man to his holding cell when all was settled, and once Javert removed the key from the lock, the weight of Valjean’s gaze on him became too unbearable to ignore.

“There is more you want to say.” He moved closer to the bars separating them and lowered his voice. “Tread carefully, Valjean.”

“I wish you would still fetch Cosette.” Valjean held up his hand when Javert began to protest. “Surely, she would be better off here than with those crooks who extorted Fantine, regardless of the state of Fantine’s health.”

“You believe that woman was not lying for sympathy, and the conditions the girl has been subjected to are truly disagreeable?”

“I know it. I have made inquiries. You have not cared to hear the outcome, but that makes it no less true. You can find all of the proof you need in the files in my desk drawer at the factory.” When Javert said nothing, too surprised by the confusion swirling in his mind and in his gut, Valjean continued, “Somewhere along the way, you found an opportunity for yourself to rise above the circumstances of your birth. Should not anyone be afforded the same chance? Will you damn this girl for my mistake?”

Javert was at a loss. Tonight, he had allowed this man within his body, and it was in the service of nothing but his own selfish desires. Was this any more a compromise than that? What would it cost him besides a few days out of his schedule? He ran a tight ship now in the town. His officers could do without him long enough to retrieve the girl.

“My word, that I will see to the girl,” he said, sticking his hand between the bars. Valjean looked at the proffered hand in shock before he clasped it in both of his.

“Thank you, Monsieur l'inspecteur. I knew I was right to believe you to be a man of great integrity.”

Javert pulled his hand free. “Good God, man. I have agreed to your errand already. No need to disgrace yourself further by resorting to brazen flattery.”

Valjean shook his head. “You would disbelieve the Gospel truth as long as I was the one to utter it.”

The accusation pierced Javert’s breast with a sharp, unfamiliar sting. If Valjean stated the sky was blue on a clear, sunny day, would Javert claim it a verdant green merely to spite him? He liked neither the question nor the implications indicated by the answer.

“Why else should you want to offer me compliments if not to flatter me?”

“I am sorry.”

Javert barked a laugh. “Whatever for?”

“I am sorry you have lived thus far without having reason to expect sincere compliments.”

Javert bristled at the expression of Valjean’s face, the strange softening around his eyes. “Do not pity me.”

“I will not. Never that.”

Blinking to clear his traitorous eyes, Javert cleared his throat and gave a short, sharp bow. 

“On my honor, the girl will be saved,” he said, and then spun on his heel and strode from the room, not allowing himself to remain long enough to see Valjean’s reaction.