Title: Evermore and Far Before That
Work ID: 49544293
Author: philly_steak
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Slow Burn, Slow Build, Slow Romance, Angel/Demon Relationship, they/them pronouns for angels, they/them pronouns, Eventual Javert/Jean Valjean, Demon! Jean Valjean, Angel! Javert, Demons, Angels, Good Omens Coded, Angst, No Aziraphale or Crowley, Hurt/Comfort, no beta we fall like jean
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

They (singular) suppose it wasn’t always themself against the heavens. Not from the start, really. If anything, they were more than happy to serve the higher powers without any question; regardless if they thought their ethics were a bit… well, unethical. Either way, they had tried their best to accept the words of the archangels and of God as law. They had tried their absolute best, but they could simply not ignore ones so desperately still in need.
Well, perhaps they should introduce who they were before the… incident.

Jean Valjean was no ordinary angel. Now, by no means were they a Seraphim or even an Archangel. They were, on almost every account, a perfectly ordinary angel. However, God had created them first, and had wanted to experiment with the ethereal beauty that a human shape could offer. They had moulded all angels after the creature They were to create in the near future: the human. So, not to be prideful, as that is a sin, Jean Valjean was quite easily the most beautiful angel.

This sentiment frequently made its rounds among many of the other angels; that’s how well-known his beauty was. It even made its way to the higher angels, the Dominions being our focus as of now.

Among these Dominions, another special angel was currently carrying out their orders with perfect efficiency. This specific angel would be known as the commonly feared Dominion Javert. This angel had heard of the beauty of the lower ranked angel and they promptly ignored all talk of it. They were also a specially made angel; one of the first. The Lord had created Javert to be what Jean would call a stick in the mud, but Javert would prefer the term hard-working.

Javert hadn’t even seen the other angel until Jean’s… trial. Even then they refused to look at the guilty angel.

How did Jean get a trial? Well, they suppose it started on the fifth day.

Jean had been working tirelessly to instruct the new animals, both marine and land, on exactly how to reproduce. It was a rather awkward conversation for each and every one of the groups of animals and for Jean themself. They had finally finished with all animals, finishing with the duck which he dreaded the most, when he heard a voice whisper in his mind.

Well, to say it was a whisper would be a lie. With the voice of God, there was no actual physical voice. It was more of a feeling, really.

Either way, Jean felt The Lord ask them to move on to Their newest creation. The human. Jean nearly buzzed out of his form. They had always yearned to meet these human, for they were supposed to share the same form as Jean. Jean quickly flapped their wings to the newly formed Garden of Eden.

Jean hid in a tree near where God was supposed to form these new creatures. They watched in excitement as the man was created.

Uhm…

That was what Jean was modeled after? The Lord spoke to their ear that They decided that a more realistic look was more fitting for the man. Jean examined the odd creature before them with its arms and legs and… was that another leg? Why was it so short compared to the other two? Jean looked towards the sky, meekly questioning the Lord. There was no answer.

Jean supposed they were stuck with this creature. At least the pride sin wouldn’t be an issue, they couldn’t imagine being prideful of that.

Jean then watched in amazement as the man’s rib removed itself from his ribcage, and then quickly formed itself to another being. This one was slightly more appealing to look at, for it didn’t have that repulsive third leg. Jean couldn’t exactly say it was attractive, though. What were those round bits of skin hanging off the woman’s chest? Jean questioned towards the heavens again, and once again receiving no answer.

Jean wasn’t actually sure where to start on explaining the process of copulation. Wait, was that third leg…
Oh, gross, gross, and gross. How would that even fit anywhere? Jean observed the two humans just stare at each other, not knowing what to do without their instruction. Jean knew that the phallus went somewhere, but into which orifice was the true question. There was one that opened and closed and made little noises… maybe that one?

Jean jumped as a light shone from the sky. One brighter than the governing sun. Jean knew at once that it was the Lord.

Their excitement at hearing the Lord speak was quickly overshadowed by their disgust as the Lord instructed the humans how to copulate since Jean was having trouble themself. Jean weakly shuddered at the picture God had painted. Gross.

The angel let out a sigh of relief as God stopped talking. They then flew to meet the new creatures. Jean had overheard the male’s name, Adam, but had yet to hear the other one’s name. Jean wasn’t even sure what the other one was. It seemed to be very similar to Adam, but it had softer curves instead of the man’s rough edges. On a closer inspection, it seemed to carry something heavy in it’s chest area. Jean briefly recalled God’s words and remembered that those were used to carry milk for the children they were supposed to carry.

“Good morning, Adam and…” Jean looked at the other creature expectantly. The creature looked at them back before catching on.

“Eve.” Jean nodded and realised that their job had already been taken care of. They stood awkwardly before they willed a couple of grapes into their hand. Jean held the fruits towards the couple.

The two looked thrilled at the gift, “I believe that these are the best tasting ones.” Jean actually had only tasted the grapes so they weren’t sure if it was the best one of all the fruits. They watched with a smile as Adam and Eve both thanked them and had begun to pick at the fruit.

They supposed their job was done here, so they decided to fly up and perch on the gate of Eden, nodding in recognition to the guardians.

They sure liked this place. They were sure they could stay here forever without ever growing bored. They also slightly appreciated the funny things the humans would do. They gave little pecks on the things called lips and hands and cheeks. They gave small trinkets that the humans said reminded them of one another. The copulation between the two was a little unnerving and looked painful, but Jean looked away mostly.
Either way, they were perfectly happy just watching. They sure were glad this would never change.

Until, of course, it did.

~~~~~~~

Jean watched with anxiety, a new feeling they assure, as Adam and Eve were thrown out into the wild. They figured that this was the absolute worst that heaven could do until they realised that Eve was pregnant with her first child. Oh Lord, how could the Lord do such a thing?

Jean’s question, this time, was answered with a rumble of thunder.

I do such a thing, for they have betrayed me.

Jean snapped their head up as the tears began to fall down their face, they couldn’t have deserved this. No one deserves to be abandoned for what they did not know the consequences of.

My child, would you be questioning my will?

God phrased it as more of a statement than a question, but Jean answered it anyway.

“I suppose I am.” Jean suddenly unfurls their wings as if God wasn’t everywhere and they could even attempt escape. Jean wields their own sword that they were given at the beginning of creation, and prepares to give it to the couple. The sword was forged of the heavens and stars themself.

Angel Jean Valjean, I forbid you to gift Adam and Eve your sword. I can assure you that there will be consequences, but I will let you off easy if you correct yourself.

And Jean could not.
They handed the sword to the grateful couple before quickly dissolving into the ground. Jean appeared before the court of angels in chains. That didn’t take long.

Jean hadn’t been brought before the angels in… well since they were made. They had been told their purpose in this very court before these very angels. Now their fate was to be determined by the same harsh speakers.

“Angel Jean Valjean, you have been brought before the Court of Angels to have your fate determined,” The head Seraphim stared upon them, silently observing Jean’s odd beauty. If Jean didn’t know any better, they would think that the Seraphim was admiring their beauty.

Jean observed the court of angels. As a judge, stood the aforementioned Seraphim. What Jean could assume to be the defendants and accusers were the Cherubim’s and Thrones. Along the sidelines, the jury, Jean thought, were the frightening Dominions, Virtues, and Powers. Some looked at Jean, many more evaded even looking at them as though viewing their sinful being was enough to taint their own pure beings. A certain, what Jean assumed to be a dominion, stood starkly apart from the others. Their hair was dark black and curly where others had light and straight hair. Not to mention the unpleasant scowl they held on their face. Jean couldn’t help but wish they weren’t looking away. Those features were quite unique on an angel. And Jean always had a taste for the unique.

Jean looked to see the Archangels and Principalities scattered among the stands for viewing, but none seemed to really see Jean. They all just talked in a low, judgemental whisper.

The head Seraphim cleared their throat, yanking Jean’s attention back to them, “You, Angel Jean Valjean, have committed the heinous act of,” they flipped open the file that lay on their desk and read the short paragraph. The Seraphim gasped scandalously.

“Outright refusing the word of God!?” The Seraphim sounded offended as if Jean had personally stabbed them. A gasp worked its way through all the angels and a Cherubim even fainted.

“Guilty! Guilty!” The jury screeched in their angel cries. Jean looked expectantly at the Seraphim. Surely they would at least let they explain themself.

Unfortunately, the angel was not so merciful, “You, Jean Valjean, are sentenced to the most vile punishment we can offer.” Jean whipped his head towards the angel court in fear. Surely they couldn’t just decide them guilty with no trial! That was unjust! That was…!

“Although, it would be a shame to see your elegant form go to waste…” the Seraphim started as Jean’s hope skyrocketed, “so I believe the proper punishment is to fall.”
And the hope disappeared.

Jean immediately attempted to dash towards the exit, but a chain wrapped itself around their ankle as they began a slow drag towards the edge of heaven. Jean stared in disbelief as they tried to scramble back to safety. They cried out in pain as their corporation began to take damage.

Closer.

Closer…

Closer…!

And Jean had fallen off the edge.

Terrified screams rang through the court. It wasn’t often an angel fell.

Jean was panicked. They half wondered if they should try to fly back up, but the chain still attached to their leg deterred any thought of escape. So as they came closer to hell, they tucked their wings safely into their body, only managing to fully put one away before they plummeted into a pool pf boiling sulfur.

They couldn’t really remember much after that.

~~~~
Year 0
~~~~

Jean had been in hell for a long time. They spent most of it moping about their lost position in heaven. Not that they gained much sympathy since many of the demons didn’t like heaven and thought that Jean dodged a bullet. They personally didn’t think so.

Actually, hell just got word that Jesus was reborn. That was a major buzzkill. Jean knew Jesus a little bit as an angel, but not enough to care when he died.

Jean had recently been trying to work his way up the ranks with as many temptations as possible. They had convinced a man to steal grain from a greedy farmer to feed his starving children, a woman to kidnap children away from their abusive father, and a priest to kill a man holding his wife hostage. They were on a roll and promoted in no time! They were by no means a duke of hell, but they weren’t doomed to an eternity of boredom. In fact, they were promoted to a new district!

The permanent earth district!

It was relatively new and they were the first demon to ever try it! Or should they say, “he” was the first demon. Now that ‘he’ is a human, Jean had to accept the human things called gendered pronouns. He found them quite amusing. Jean had the option to use the she ones or the they ones, but he felt his corporation looked much more like Adam’s than Eve’s. Didn’t want the simple humans to get too confused!

Jean’s first place in earth was a very small cottage. He lived alone and tried to stay out of the human’s ways; However, he quickly found himself growing attached to the humans and their silly ways, much like he had in Eden. Their words of sweetness to each other and the ways they would offer comfort. Such empathetic creatures, Jean thought, so kind to one another.

Wouldn’t it be wondrous? To be like them? To have feelings of adoration towards others? Jean didn’t think that demons did that. Hell, he didn’t think that angels did either!

He believed what the humans called it was…
Love.

~~~~
Year 1103
~~~~

There’s someone new.

Jean could feel their presence as soon as they entered the earth. It was on a caliber similar to his own presence. Not a demon, no, but more of an angel. Jean panicked at the thought that heaven was here to deliver further punishment, but quickly pushed the fear away. Heaven rarely did a job half-way. They would either punish him once or never at all.

Jean’s curiosity led him to an open corner in the village. There was a man unlocking the door to a very small home. Barely enough to fit anything. The man seemed to be disturbed as he whirled around to be met with Jean in front of him. The man, no, the angel, as Jean now recognised them, threw Jean into the empty home and drew his angelic sword, pointing it at Jean’s throat.

“What are you doing here, fiend,” the angel demanded in a harsh tone. As Jean stared into the angel’s face, he suddenly remembered where he’d saw the man before. The juxtaposed angel. The dark rose in a flower bed of white ones. He had to admit, the angel was quite dashing in person and up close.

Jean answered the question in a meek tone, “same as you, I would guess. I’m just following orders.” The angel’s face twisted in disgust at the demon even suggesting they did something alike.

“I should kill you where you lie.” Their hands gripped their sword. Jean quickly summoned a ball of hellfire in his hand. The angel jumped back as the flame licked his sword.

Jean picked himself off and dusted his suit.

“I don’t mean you any harm, Angel,” Jean smiled, “I just think we could form a little alliance.”

“Oh please, you couldn’t tempt me to do that with all the demons in the world by your side,” the angel backed into a corner, warily watching to see if Jean made any attack moves. They were starting to think they should have brought holy water.

“Not a temptation, just a suggestion,” Jean held his hands up in surrender, slowly walking to the door, still facing the angel. The angel seemed relaxed at the fact that he was leaving, but stiffened dramatically when he spoke again.

“The name is Jean. Jean Valjean.” The demon tipped his hat towards the angel.

The angel hesitated for a moment before he found his words, “I’m well aware, Valjean.”
Jean began to walk out.

“And I’m Javert.” The angel spoke dangerously low, “do not forget my name.”

Jean bowed playfully, “as if anyone could forget you, Angel,” Jean broke into a run as Javert seemed to snap and wield his sword again. Jean ran as fast as possible, giggling all the while.

Oh, this angel was going to be so much fun!