Title: Grasping for purchase
Work ID: 46690609
Author: Bam_b00zle
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert & Jean Valjean, Javert/Jean Valjean (preslash), Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Suicide contemplation, idk man its just Javert having his silly little crisis, this is really just gen, I like to imagine you get the standard post siene shit after this tho
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Javert had never been a man. Javert had always been the inspector, an arm of the law, almost a concept. Javert, the inspector, had no need for feelings. He had no need to concern himself with anything past his duty. It had been an honourable existence. It had been righteous. There was no shame in doing one’s duty- none in serving the law- until that damned man. Javert would growl and hiss like some wild beast at the mention of that infuriating saint, that conflicting convict. It was no surprise- to put his steadfast and unchanging ideals into question, to rip him from his bearings, it was sacrilege. The law had been honourable; the law had been his one guiding light, his one ultimate authority. It was not something to be questioned, altered, disrespected. For a saint- a good man- to defy this. It should not have been possible. And yet, there Jean Valjean was. Saving men at barricades, stealing, serving his time. It was an impossibility. And yet.

And yet, there Javert had been, attempting to tear the man down with a righteous fury as if- as if- he did not know. As if he was right, perhaps. As if his duty was not misguided. Convicts were men and servants of the law were wretched and the heavens were hell, it seemed. There were many things one could glean from such a realisation- perhaps Javert deserved the punishment he would so happily have given to that… good man- but Javert could not bear it. He was weak. He was weak, no longer infallible, no longer that shining beacon of justice. He was a man. Javert had become man, just as he always had been, making misguided mistakes under the guise of infallibility, and he deserved punishment. He had deserved punishment in Montreuil, a punishment he had been spared, and perhaps he had deserved punishment in Toulon, and he certainly deserved punishment at this juncture. He would not be spared once more. He would not be saved from the consequences once more, he would not be saved by that convict-saint, and he would make sure of it.

He had already delivered the boy and the exhausted man back to their respective properties- to think of Valjean as a man was a new novelty, but he could not bear to marvel at his own foolishness- and had ‘waited outside’ for him. He did not wait. He had marched off to the Pont au Change, the place which would be his punishment and his end. It was clear to him then- which many things had not been, the swirling waters of the seine obscuring his mind and his failed execution clouding his sight- and he went as if he were simply on another mission (which he was- a last mission of self destruction), his understanding of this clear to him at least. Jean Valjean was a good man; Javert was a wretch. This understanding cut through him like a knife, though the pain felt oddly satisfying. He had known this. He had known that he was a wretch, from the gutter and from his lineage, and he was simply living up to that. There was something cruelly rewarding at this realisation. And so, with his knowledge set and his course unwavering once more, Javert the wretch set his hat down on the parapet of that bridge to his punishment, joining it shortly after.

The Seine reached for him, it seemed. Its swirling blackness grasped at him similarly to the way he had seized others- good men and criminals alike- and it was only right that he would be taken just as he had undoubtedly destroyed. It was just. His grin at this was ugly. He snarled almost, his amusement at this was a hysterical one, a bark of pained laughter escaping him. His own destruction was just- possibly one of the only just things he had done- and he knew he would carry out this task with the dedication he had given to any other.

Javert closed his eyes, his rough and unpleasant sounds of amusement and grief still escaping his bared and clenched teeth, closing his eyes to the seine and the bridge and the faint glimmers of lanterns. There were no stars shining through the clouds and smoke of revolution, but he fancied that Orion mocked him. Javert had hunted, and he would meet his end. He hoped that God would have no pity for him- it was undeserved and unwanted- and that he would be dealt with swiftly and uncaringly.

Suicide was a sin, was it not? Admittedly, Javert had never been one to read the scriptures. He had attended church, but had never made confession. It was not practical in his duty, and so Javert, the spartan blackguard he was, did not pay it much mind. Perhaps, had he studied the mercy of God as Madeleine had once encouraged, he could have avoided this fate. That was inconsequential though. He knew that the sin of suicide- along with his countless others that he had been so blind to- would atleast give him the punishment he so wished for.