Title: i’ll escape now from that world (from the world of jean valjean)
Work ID: 45739957
Author: jackdoeswriting
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Valjean Saves Javert, it’s sad, Javert has issues, barely any beta, Suicide mentions, Religion based moral compass, Phillip Quast Javert
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 3/?

Javert never knew his first name, he didn’t even know if he had one, in his life Inspector had become sort of a first name for him. As far as he had known, Javert could have been his first name, or his last, he didn’t know. It didn’t even matter that much, what did matter was his job. His work in the police force, and catching Jean Valjean. But Valjean didn’t matter anymore, none of it did. Not where he was going. He’d probably go to hell, as his last action, the one he was about to commit, would be a crime. He felt terrible knowing that, that in a desperate attempt to escape, he'd be breaking the thing he had followed so closely all his life. When suddenly, Javert heard a voice, a voice he did not recognize at first. “Come down.” The voice sounded concerned.

 

“Excuse me?” Javert said, turning towards the figure in the darkness. “Inspector, come down.” Javert winced at being called Inspector, he had just turned the thought of him being called it around in his head. It wasn’t right anymore. He had handed in his letter of resignation the moment he decided he was going to kill himself. “Please, Inspector. Come down, it is not worth it.” As he stared into the darkness to see who the man who so clearly wanted Javert to live, the face he saw nearly made him jump off the bridge right that second. “Valjean!” He shouted, who it was clicking into place, but why..? He had already spared Javert once, why would he wish to spare his life once more? “Yes, now will you come down, if you do I promise to you that you may do whatever you must. I am yours, Javert.” This caused the other man, still in his shocked state to declare, “Nonsense.” That had taken Valjean aback, what did the other mean, nonsense? “Javert, are you not going to arrest me? I swore to you that I would return, you said you would be waiting. Are you not waiting now?” “I have no right to do that anymore.” Javert said, biting his tongue and regretting the words that came out of his mouth.

Javert reveals he resigned and Valjean still tries to convince him to come down.

Thanks for the few kudos and the comment! I really appreciate it!

Valjean looked at him with a puzzled, concerned expression. “I brought in my letter of resignation just recently.” He nodded, understanding Javert. “Will you come down and speak to me, just for now?” Javert played with the idea in his mind, why should he? He could just jump now and there was nothing Valjean could do about it. “You must think I am mad, Valjean.” He scoffed. “I don’t need your pity. You should have killed me, so allow me to die now!” The other looked solemnly at Javert. “You do not deserve to die at all!” Javert considered coming down right that second and turning in Valjean, but he had already claimed it was nonsense that he was guilty. Was he guilty? Javert didn’t even know. Was this man a sinner or a saint? Javert couldn’t wrap his head around Valjean being a saint, but sinner sounded so wrong after all he has done. After all the people he has helped. “I do. It was your right to kill me and my right to die.”

Javert shook his head, continuing on his sentence, “So I will not come down, and you may leave and forget any of this ever happened! This is the end of Javert, and you must accept that. I will not be saved by a thief. 24601.” He spat out, frustrated that Valjean was refusing to let him die, so he went to the only insults he could think of, standing on that ledge, the other man’s prison number, and his crimes. That’s all Javert ever saw of anyone who had committed a crime, but Valjean was different. He had put more time into Valjean, he cared more about catching him, and he wasn’t sure why..

Valjean finally gets Javert off the bridge

i added in a silly little joke for the enjoyers there, thanks for the kudos + sorry for the first chapter or any mistakes i can be really bad at typing sometimes ok ENJOY

Javert stared into the river, his back facing Valjean now. “Javert.” The voice behind him of which he knew so well said, “Come down and I will help you.” The words cut into him like a knife, what was there to help!? Javert didn’t NEED help, he needed a way out! “I do not need your help OR your pity.” Javert scoffed, he was so close to just jumping. Valjean reached his hand out and grabbed Javert’s, causing him to yelp in surprise, Valjean yanked him down towards the ground..and in some miracle (plot armor) it worked, though Javert was now on the ground, and beyond pissed, he did not say anything, but then Javert spoke once again, “Give me ONE good reason I should not get up and turn you in right now.” The other thought for a minute.

“You have already said it is nonsense for me to go, I even offered to turn myself in.” Valjean said, it was his only hope, he was here, standing face to face with the man who had threatened to capture him so many times, he was face to face, just like that he had been several times, but this time he would not put up a fight.