Title: is it way too much (if you had to choose just one of us?)
Work ID: 45177808
Author: appljuicebox
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Marius Pontmercy/Les Amis de l'ABC, Enjolras/Marius Pontmercy, Courfeyrac/Marius Pontmercy, Combeferre/Marius Pontmercy, Grantaire/Marius Pontmercy, Joly/Marius Pontmercy, Bossuet Laigle/Marius Pontmercy, Feuilly/Marius Pontmercy, Bahorel/Marius Pontmercy, Marius Pontmercy/Jean Prouvaire, Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier, Javert/Jean Valjean, Enjolras/Montparnasse (Les Misérables), Les Amis de l'ABC Friendship, Marius Pontmercy & Les Amis de l'ABC, Enjolras & Cosette Fauchelevent, Gavroche Thénardier & Les Amis de l'ABC, Marius Pontmercy & Théodule Gillenormand, Joly/Bossuet Laigle
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Alternate Universe - High School, Alternate Universe - Reincarnation, shhh you'll see, Trans Male Character, Trans Courfeyrac (Les Misérables), Trans Enjolras (Les Misérables), Genderfluid Character, Genderfluid Jean Prouvaire, Minor Javert/Jean Valjean, Underage Drinking, Underage Smoking, Underage Drug Use, Implied/Referenced Underage Sex, just guys being dudes yknow, Deaf Character, deaf!jehan prouvaire, Inspired by Doki Doki Literature Club!, Suicide, Self-Harm, Depression, References to Ancient Greek Religion & Lore, Hurt/Comfort, Mild Smut, Gender Dysphoria, Bisexual Grantaire (Les Misérables), Gay Enjolras (Les Misérables), No beta we die like almost everyone
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 6/?

ponine
btw am i gonna meet u at the msuain tonight?

*musain

mario
yeah, ill be at my usual table

are u at school yet?

ponine
i just need to iron my fucking blazer

what abt u?

mario
omw rn

ponine
ok see u

mario
see you

 

Marius clicks his phone off and slides it in his blazer pocket. He looks around. It really was a nice morning. He absent-mindedly stared at a house sparrow perched on a tree, grooming its feathers.

 

"Marius! Wait! Slow down!"

 

Rapid footsteps approached Marius from behind.

 

Oh, god.

 

"MARIUS!!"

 

Courfeyrac pounced on his friend, almost making Marius topple over on the sidewalk if not for Courfeyrac suddenly holding him up and setting him down on his feet again. Courfeyrac was wearing his gradient pink, orange and yellow slap bracelets today, as he does on every Monday, and there was a smear of toothpaste on his collar. Marius playfully rolled his eyes as Courfeyrac giggled like a little girl, "Why didn't you wait for me?!"

 

"We already went over this, Cou. I'm not waiting for you anymore."

 

Courfeyrac pouted, "Since when?!"

 

"Last week. Tell me, what time did you sleep?"

 

"...Nine?"

 

"No."

 

"I fell asleep at two! Okay?!"

 

"What were you even doing at two in the morning?"

 

"We had to settle financial stuff and everything to start the club."

 

"...Club? Who's 'we'?"

 

"Oh, right, I forgot to tell you!" Courfeyrac shakes Marius's arm and then pulls out his phone, scrolling for a long time until stopping and then reading something over. "So I started a club. Well, not me. With friends."

 

"What club?" Marius desperately tries to get a peek on Courf's screen.

 

"A socialist club."

 

"That's nice."

 

They walk in silence for a moment. Look for the definition of "awkward" and this is what you get.

 

"I'm asking you to come to a meeting, Pontmercy."

 

"Just go to a meeting, right? Not actually joining the club... right?"

 

"Yeah, of course! The guys there are wonderful! Though Enj is a bit mean, he cares about everyone. And Jehan is really good at baking! You should see the cupcakes they made for today's meeting!"

 

They finally reached their school and walked to the entrance, Courfeyrac winking at a group of giggling schoolgirls standing at the gate. They had time to spare, class isn't starting yet. Courfeyrac tried to rush to girls, but Marius caught his blazer sleeve and pulled him away.

 

"Pontmercy!" Courfeyrac shook Marius's hand off. "Better to get to class early than to flirt with girls." Marius led him to their lockers.

this chapter is a bit longer than the last. idk how it happened i just wrote stuff that came out of my head

Marius was somehow still sitting there in the classroom, mindlessly gazing at the blackboard in front of him.

 

"MARIUS!!" Two pairs of hands with slap bracelets were slammed on Marius's desk.

 

"HOLY-" Marius almost fell backwards but Courfeyrac caught him. Screaming Marius's name... Catching him... Deja vu...? Is that you...??

 

"You promised to go to the meeting today!"

 

"What meeting?" Marius tried to call back all the promises he made to Courfeyrac today (but of course he wouldn't actually keep them): Waiting for Courfeyrac if he was running late, join a club and socialize more... Courf never said anything about "meeting".

 

"The meeting for my club!" Courfeyrac shook his friend. Then he Marius's books on the desk, forcefully shoved them in Marius's messenger bag, taking the whole thing and then ran out of the classroom. "HEY, GIVE IT BACK!!" Marius ran across the hallway to catch him, but Courfeyrac was faster than he looked, and Marius almost tripped on two flights of stairs.

 

Marius finally reached the classroom in which Courfeyrac ran into, and suddenly saw his bag being thrown around the classroom by multiple guys who were laughing they're asses off.

 

"GIVE IT BACK!!"

 

Everyone stopped, and Courfeyrac jumped out from behind a desk. "Welcome to the first meeting of Les Amis de l'ABC, Pontmercy!"

 

Marius backed away from the doorway, "Just give me my bag." Courfeyrac rolled his eyes and pried the bag away from the tallest in the group who was well built and looked like he could break your back just by lifting you. He marched towards Marius and held out the bag. Marius felt like this was a trap... it was. As he gripped the bag Courfeyrac pulled him into the room with lots of force that Marius lost grip of the bag and fell face first to the floor.

 

Marius raised his head, and his hazelnut eyes immediately met cornflower blue ones.

 

"Hi."

 

"Hi?" Marius sat up, using a desk as support. "Mmm, Courf really scored." The blue eyed boy almost muttered to himself. "Hi, my name's Enjolras and I'm the president. What the fuck are you doing here." He held out his hand for Marius to shake. Marius took the hand but winced at the very strong grip. "Marius. Pontmercy."

 

"Courf said there were cupcakes? Someone named Jehan made them...?" Marius asked after they shook hands. Enjolras pointed to someone swinging their legs at their desk, silently reading a book of some kind of Victorian erotic poetry right there in front of everyone. They had little flower clips in their braided red hair. "Jehan?" Enjolras called out, noticeably louder than how he talked to Marius. "Jehan." He said just slightly louder. Enjolras looked up at a taller guy wearing glasses and fidgeting with a Rubik's cube. The guy nodded and walked over to Jehan, signing something in sign language and Jehan nodded and put something on their ear.

 

"I'm sorry, Enj. You were saying?"

 

"This guy wants cupcakes."

 

"Oh." Jehan closed the book and walked over to a table next to someone sleeping noisily. "R, wake up." Jehan lightly shook him, but he didn't wake up. Jehan shook their head and took the plastic covered cupcake tray and sets it on the desk in front of Marius. "They look like little cats." Marius murmurs as he picks one of the cupcakes up.

 

As Marius ate his cupcake, he got to know everyone in the club. Basically Courfeyrac made a long description for each and everyone.

 

"Enjolras is, like, super rich, and he really hates monarchy and Napoleon. His favourite colours are also red and black..." "Jehan's genderfluid but they want people to use they/them pronouns, and they get real upset when people don't use the right pronouns, so be careful. And they're also deaf, and they doesn't wear their hearing aid much so make sure to write down everything you say..." "Bahorel was to be president of the boxing club last year, and he really likes 80s games..." "Combeferre is studying to be a doctor and he's really smart! Also you can use him as Google Translate if you wanna talk to Jehan..." "Feuilly makes crochet blankets and fans on his website..." "Bossuet's very unlucky, but he gets through sometimes. And he's a very funny guy..." "Joly's a hypochondriac so just sneeze away from him and you'll be fine..." "Grantaire always has a flask with him but he's everybody's friend..."

 

"That's nice, Cou." Marius had been saying that to him after Courfeyrac rambles ever since they were little kids.

 

"Alright, sit your asses everyone. Someone wake Grantaire up." Enjolras climbed onto the platform and leaned back on the teacher's desk. Marius sat on the desk with the cupcakes on them. He took a bite from the one in his hand and he swore he saw the edge of Enjolras's mouth rise ever so slightly as Marius licked away some frosting on his lips.

 

"Alright, welcome to the first actual official meeting of Les Amis de l'ABC. So, our goal here before the school year ends is to spread enough equality in this school as possible. Racism, sexism, bigotry, ableism, fuck them hard and push. Them. Off. A cliff. Marius don't hog the cupcakes, pass the tray around. So, we have some grant money from M. Valjean, the principal
, and its around, like, a thousand? Euros? I think... Yeah, it is. So, next week, we'll be shopping at Carrefour for supplies and everything. You can get personal items but using your own money. Anyone caught skimming money off the grant will be kicked out of the club immediately. Grantaire, I'm looking at you. No funny business."

 

Grantaire, sitting at the very back, nodded with a lazy smile. "Anything for you, Apollo."

 

"Shut up. So, for today's meeting, we'll be electing vice president, secretary, blah blah blah, that shit. No ice-breakers cause that's cringe."

 

After the voting, Combeferre became treasurer, Courfeyrac became secretary and somehow, Marius became vice president.

 

"Wait!" Marius objected as he won the vote. Enjolras looked up from the blackboard, "What? Did I calculate wrong? 'Cause math wasn't always my subject." Marius shook his head, "No! I never wanted to join, I just came here because Courf wanted me to."

 

The other students, who were joyously chatting away just then became silent. "What?" Courfeyrac's voice was no more audible than a whisper.

 

"I'm not joining the club."

 

Everyone sulked. Bossuet had been fidgeting with his pen and muttered sadly, "I guess my bad luck implemented on everybody." Enjolras's scowl had disappeared and he just looked down at his feet, "Fucking bitch..."

 

Marius couldn't take it anymore. Courfeyrac had even silently started crying. It wasn't a surprise, Courfeyrac was made easy to cry ever since kindergarten. "Alright, I take it back! I'll join the club just stop making me feel bad!"

 

Everyone lit up, Courfeyrac jumped to his feet, got on the platform and squeezed the life out of Marius, "Thank you thank you thank you thank you!" "Yeah okay, Cou, just let me go-"

 

Marius took a deep breath as Courf released him. Enjolras titled his head with a small smile, "You'll be our vice president?"

 

"Love to."

 

Everyone cheered and they all got hungover the next day.

 

"R, where'd you get all the beer?" Marius had asked Grantaire that night.

 

"Some things are better left untold, Pontmercy!"

 

Marius rolled his eyes at the response. He turned around and found Enjolras staring at him from the other end of Grantaire's dimly lit living room.

They go shopping. With a side of Cosette complaining about her dad's love life.

My horrible attempt at writing something at least a tad suggestive. please gouge your eyes out after reading this.

arafgahgGDGHJGSFGHSDH it was so frustrating to write this chapter cuz my wifi kept coming and going which made me get set back a few paragraphs UGH i hate life

shhhhh i never went to carrefour. i think. idk when i was in paris we did go to a supermarket but im not sure if it was carrefour.

 




also uh sexy bit here





(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Lots of things have already changed during the second meeting. They've decided to meet at the Cafe Musain, and Feuilly had made them all tricolour cockades to pin on their blazers. And Gavroche had found out that they were going to Carrefour, so Eponine made them babysit (especially Grantaire) in exchange for the backroom of the Musain as a meeting place.

 

As the bell rang, everyone packed their things in their bag until Cosette came rushing in. "ENJ HELP!!" Enjolras made a strangled noise as Cosette shook him crazily. "Okay! Okay! What happened?"

 

"You know that security guard, right? The one everyone's scared of? Even the teachers?"

 

"Javert?"

 

"That guy. Yep. You know him?" Cosette gives the boys the side eye as they play "Pass Marius's Bag Around" again.

 

"Yeah, I do. Scares the shit out of me."

 

"He's hitting on my dad."

 

Enjolras makes a choked snicker. "What?"

 

"He's hitting on my dad."

 

"What the fuck?" Enjolras is on the verge of laughing his organs out.

 

"THE SECURITY GUARD DUDE IS HITTING ON MY FUCKING DAD."

 

The room goes silent, and the bag slips out of Feuilly's hands prompting Marius to quickly catch it. "What do you need me to hel-" Enjolras burst out into a fit of laughter, imagining Cosette's dad, out of all people, making out with the scary security guard. "Enj, be serious. I need your guys to help me set up a blind date. Wednesday or Thursday, I need them married by next week." Cosette turned to Courfeyrac, "Aphrodite, take a crack." And at Grantaire, "Dionysus, you choose the wine..."

 

"Wait, what?! No, we need to go to Carrefour to get supplies!"

 

"Get me a bouquet of flowers too, please? Me and Courf have matchmaking to do." She winked at Courfeyrac who answered with a giddy smile. Cosette then skipped out of the room and closed the door behind her.

 

They could hear her scream from the end of the hall, "OH MY GOD JAVERT JUST ASKED MY DAD OUT-"

 

-.-.-

 

Gavroche was eleven, but he was as small as a second grader, so Enjolras didn't object as Gavroche climbed into the shopping cart and let Bahorel, Grantaire and Courfeyrac race him around the clothing aisle like a fucking race car while Feuilly was holding onto the edge of the cart for dear life. Joly was looking at Pepto-Bismol while Bossuet was carefully trying to assure him he did not have diarrhea. Jehan was looking at romance novels and those glittery highlighters. Marius and Combeferre were the only ones who were focusing on the task at hand. Where was Enjolras? Dunno.

 

"I think glossy posters look nice." Marius took two packs and put them into the trolley. "They're expensive, Marius. Maybe we should just get card stock." Combeferre said. "But glossy paper is, like, glossy, so it's shinier and attracts more people...?" Marius made a somewhat valid argument. "We should ask Enj. Where is Enj?" Marius and Combeferre started calling his name out, and Marius set out to find Enjolras while Combeferre tried to stop the Mario Kart game happening in the clothing aisle.

 

Marius soon bumped into Enjolras at the wine aisle. "Enj, where were you?" Marius almost doubled over as Enjolras pulled him towards the fitting rooms. "Where are we going?!"

 

"I need your honest opinion."

 

The door lock clicked. They were alone together in a very claustrophobic space.

 

"Enjolras, what-" Marius froze and backed himself against the wall as Enjolras began to take his jeans and underwear off. "No, no, no, Enj, you really don't have to-" He was silenced by a marble white finger on his lips. "Calm down." Then he took out something from the pocket of his jeans. A condom and pair of white panties with lace at the ends. The pink bow on the panties was the one that got Marius on edge. He was all hot and bothered now, and he felt Enjolras rub the growing tent in his pants while putting on the panties. "Open them, big boy."

 

Marius nodded rapidly, his breathing shaky. He unzipped his pants and took out his half-hard cock. He felt like his soul ascended as he turned around to see Enjolras sticking his ass out, the panties making him look absolutely delicious.

 

"Use the condom or I will break your skull."

 

"You can break my skull with your thighs." Marius learned that from a Resident Evil Village live stream.

 

-.-.-

 

When they came out, the others already paid for the things and were waiting for them outside.

 

"Where were you two?!" Combeferre scolded. "If you guys were getting those cute polaroid stickers without me then I'm not talking to you anymore." Courfeyrac said without looking up from his phone.

 

"We... got lost." Marius lied.

 

"I got lost in a supermarket once, back in Montfermeil." Gavroche said, fidgeting with Combeferre's Rubik's cube, "They made an announcement over the speakers but my parents never showed up. Then my mum remembered she forgot to buy lettuce so she came back to the supermarket and realized they also forgot me there. I stayed with the police for four days."

 

"Your parents are shitheads." Bahorel said.

 

"Don't sympathize me."

 

"Well, no matter." Combeferre shook his head, "Let's all just go home."

 

-.-.-

 

As Marius settled himself into bed, he reached out to his messenger bag, and took out a pair of soaked pretty white panties. He held them to his chest and sighed dreamily. He didn't even realize that his own hand was snaking into his shorts and fondling his cock.

i bet you didnt expect the panty!jolras didnt you

roses are red, cactus are pricklyholy shit why did that escalate quickly

cute lil baby marius and baby courfeyrac are cute together hehehehehehe

also this is courf pre-transition btw!!!!!

quick note: middle school in france are ages 11 - 14. so when i say "middle school prom" and "spiked punch" please don't imagine a dorky 12 yr old marius drinking alcoholic party drinks and passing out PLEASE THEY'RE FOURTEEN

i can't write gender dysphoria im sorry im cis and trying Q-Q

stayed up extra late to write this. also wrote this while looking at greek myth pinterest so u know how thats going

UGH SO MUCH DIALOGUE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! SO MUCH TALKING ITS LIKE A SHAKESPEARE PLAY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

yeah we have fuckboy theodule here. why. why do u ask


"Okay, class. Hi! My name is Mdm. Eloise and I will be your teacher this second grade!" The old woman said as she placed several worksheets and bracelet making kits on her desk. "Today we'll play a few ice-breaker games and make bracelets with our name on it! Like a name-tag."


 


After all the kids had finished with the worksheets, the teacher handed out the bracelet making kits with enough string in each one. "You have to share with the ones sitting at your desk. Don't hog one colour as others want to use them as well, and your bracelet would look much nicer with different colours. Okay, you can start now!"


 

Courfeyrac reached out for the yellow beads to start with her bracelet, but yelled out a "Hey!!" as the boy next to her took a whole handful of the beads. Other girls at the table already used most of the beads, being mean dumbfucks as they are 'cause they don't know there should be space between the beads and the knot. The girl got up from her seat and walked over to the teacher's desk, "Madame, the other kids don't want to share the beads with me!"

 


The teacher looked around for a moment, and pointed to a boy sitting alone, "Go share with him. I think he has lots of beads to spare."


 


Courfeyrac casually slid into the chair next to the boy. The boy looked up from his half-finished green and brown bracelet,"Why are you here?" Courfeyrac looked at him with a puzzled look, "The other kids didn't wanna share their beads so I came here to borrow some of yours. Do you mind?" The boy nodded.


 


They sat in silence for a moment, until the boy showed his bracelet, tied and finished around his wrist, to Courfeyrac, "My name's Marius."


 


"That's a nice bracelet... Uhm..." Courfeyrac quickly tied her bracelet and slid it over her wrist. "Courfeyrac. But you can call me Cou."


 


"That's a funny name."


 

"I just think people would be tired by saying Courfeyrac all the time. It's a bit long, isn't it?"

 


"Yeah, I guess so."


 


...


 


"Why do you sit alone, Marius?"



 


"You don't remember what happened last year?"



 


"I wasn't even in this school last year."



 


"...You're new?"


 


"Yeah. I got transferred from Versailles."


 


"Oh. Then it's better you don't know."


 


-.-.-


 


Middle-school proms are the worst, I can give you that. Marius hated being single. Everyone going about in their fancy tuxedos and dresses while Marius is in the corner watching some fuckheads spike the punch. But honestly he couldn't be more grateful to those guys cause now he has something to pass out on.


 


Him and Courfeyrac had been friends since second grade, and they follow each other everywhere. Even Marius's aunt noticed.


 


"Cou says she's probably going to start dating again soon. Hopefully some jerk doesn't come in and make her go through all that heartbreak again."


 


"Wait, what? I thought she was dating you."


 

"For the last time, Auntie, we aren't dating."

 


Speaking of Courfeyrac, where was she anyways?


 


Marius slipped pass the couples dancing and burst out of the gym with an exhale. Fucking whores. He went down the hall towards the bathroom, which was Courfeyrac's main coping place ever since they started middle-school and pressure got dumped on her by her parents, when Cou just wanted to stray from the world.


 

This time, Courfeyrac wasn't in the restroom. She was curled up into a ball outside the doors of the restroom, leaning against the wall of the alcove. The only thing people noticed about her that she wasn't wearing a sparkly poofy dress with a ribbon at the back like all the other girls, instead she was wearing a plain blue tuxedo and her hair was cut short.

 


"Cou? Why aren't you-"


 


"Sit down."


 


Marius sat against the wall across Courfeyrac. "So? What's popping? They're serving those chicken fingers you like, why aren't you out?"


 


"Have you ever felt like... you're in the wrong body? It belongs to someone else? Maybe... while making you God mixed the bodies up and you ended up in this one...?"


 


Marius fell silent. What?


 


"What do you mean?"


 


"I don't like being a girl."


 


"..."


 


"Just feels wrong. I'm supposed to go to the girls' restroom but I feel like I have to go to the boys'."


 


"Maybe that's just hormones speaking?"


 


"I'm serious, Marius. Oh that rhymes. But I'm serious. I just feel wrong. Very very wrong."


 


"You wanna see a therapist about it? Or something?"


 


"Maybe. Maybe I should just try to sleep it off first."


 


"You wanna hitch a ride home?"


 


"In your cousin's shit smelling car?"


 


"...Yes."


 


"Count me in. The cheesepuffs under the seat are still there, right?"


 


"...Yes?"


 


"Let's roll, then."


 


Marius had called Theodule and Theodule arrived almost an hour later in the school parking lot. Courfeyrac jumped happily into the car, scratching her nails into the rude writings on the carseat that was made with a Sharpie. Marius had no idea how she enjoyed this. The car smelled of cocaine and cigarettes, and Marius is still pretty sure Theodule got the cocaine in any means that wasn't legal.


 


"Finally got yourself a date, you noodle?" Theodule asked as they drove out of the parking lot and onto the road.


 


"She isn't my date."


 


"Yeah, I'm not his date, weirdo. Your car is cool though. Can I have it when you die?"


 


"Sure, why not. Oh, and Marius, I have some spare condoms under the seat if you need them."


 


"...Just please get us to Cou's house."


a continuation to the last chapter

very short chapter just saying

GRGRGRGRGRGRGRGGRGRRRRGRGR UGH this came LATE i FUCKING HATE THE WIFI AT MY GRAN'S HOUSE HFJEWKRSJNKWVB4ERNJNKWEQW

im sorry this chapter arrived late :( my life had been a bit messy. im going to school again next week but ig i will be updating this once or twice a week hopefully.

but anyways im back, im booming, and i feel like shit.


Courfeyrac could not sleep it off.


 


In fact, she didn't attend class for three days because of the thing she's experiencing. The teachers called home but Cou's parents couldn't say anything except "she's cooped up in her bedroom and won't come out."


 


Of course, Marius was the only person who was allowed entry. He came every midnight through the window. He always brought some kind of food, usually left overs from his dinner. Or a Happy Meal because the Transformer toys just released and Cou would love to complete her collection.


 


It had been a week now. It's 4AM and Cou and Marius are having a Best Friend Talk over a Big Mac and a Fish o Fillet.


 


"You want to be a boy?"


 


"I'd love to. I found a whole community about that. Transgender. Lots of people are like me. Like this." Courfeyrac pointed to a pile of magazines about male fashion.


 


"Then I completely respect your decision."


 


"Would you mind going to the store with me to get some things?"


 


"Now?"


 


"No, dumbass. Maybe noon."


 


"Sure, why not." Marius took a bite out of his Fish o Fillet.


 


-.-.-


 


Two days after that Courfeyrac returned to school, but with great difficulty. She spent most of the time in the restroom, and the other girls gawked at her polo shirts and jeans. Marius followed Cou around like a puppy, glaring at anyone who whispered and giggled at her.


 


-.-.-


 


 Courfeyrac had grown out of his binders, and Marius had already bought two more packs for him. Cou's parents still doesn't know. They had already bought a blue sparkly dress for him, they were so upset when he said, "I don't want it."


 


Today they were graduating from high school, and they were both in Marius's bedroom getting ready for the ceremony. Courfeyrac was on the bed, all dressed up and waiting for Marius. Courfeyrac always got ready earlier. "You need help with that?" He laughed as Marius almost choked himself with his own necktie.


 


"I would love that, thank you," Marius replied sardonically, handing Cou the tie and letting him maneuver it around his neck.


 

As Cou turned Marius around to admire his handiwork, they just realized how close they were. If someone had walked into the room right now, it would look like Courfeyrac was backing Marius into the mirror.

 


Both of their breathing quickened. Courfeyrac raised his knee and pressed it against Marius's crotch.


 


"You look nice in this tie."


 


"That's because you're the one who got it for me."


 


And they kissed.


enj and parnasse are exes who knew.......................

agh late!! i didnt upload for a fucking week i hate my life!!!!!!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


After the incident in the fitting room, Enjolras barely talked to Marius, instead just giving him small kisses on his neck and discreet side-glances when no one was watching. Enjolras sat on Marius's lap a few times, but everyone brushed that off because he already did that to almost everyone in the club. He had the privilege. He is president after all.

 

When the Valentine's Day dance happened, Enjolras never brought a date, which started the "Celibate Enjolras" sweep. Though Enjorlas was considered more romantically celibate. Sexually? He's a hoe.

 

Marius was surprised when he found out how many exes Enjolras still had in his contacts.

 

-.-.-

 

When Marius went to get his stuff from his locker with Courfeyrac after the former had finished chess club and the latter with swimming, they were both surprised when they found a crowd blocking their path to the lockers. There were chants and very problematic roasting coming from the inside.

 

"Oh shit, Enj is at it again." Courfeyrac quickly rushed to the crowd, and Marius was immediately swept with him.

 

They finally reached the inside of the circle, where apparently Enjolras and another student - curly black hair, wearing a magenta coloured rose headband and lots of bracelets on their wrist that make the most annoying clink-clink sound - were having a row.

 

"So you're spreading rumours about me? That's great! You found another hobby other than spreading YOUR LEGS!!" Enjolras barked, taking the students purse and threw it to the ground, a phone, lipgloss and some condoms fell out. Marius could see the name "Montparnasse" stitched into the purse.

 

"Oh, me spreading my legs?! You and your activist boy band don't count?! I heard you skipped class to give Combeferre a blowjob in the bathrooms!" Montparnasse said. The crowd goes wild.

 

Marius made a strangled laughing sound. Enj gave Ferre a blowjob?

 

"Okay, no. Leave Les Amis out of this, you cunt!"

 

They almost strangled each other when the "scary security guard" game to see what was wrong.

 

-.-.-

 

Courfeyrac, Combeferre and Marius found Enjolras in Cosette's car, mascara smudged and ruined, crying and singing along to Cake by Melanie Martinez. Courfeyrac knocked on the window, which made Enjolras's head perk up and he wiped his tears. He paused the song and rolled the window down. "Hi."

 

"Hi, drama queen. Your mascara." Courfeyrac said. "I know, I'll fix it later." Enjolras looked at himself in his compact mirror for a second before turning back to his friends. "What do you need?"

 

"Courf told us you had another fight with Parnasse." Combeferre said. "This time in the hallways? Enj, you have to be more careful."

 

"I know." Enjolras breathed shakily. Marius frowned and whispered to Cou, "Who's Parnasse?" Courfeyrac made and audible 'ugh' sound, "Please don't ever ask that again." After they talked and the three discussed activities for the club, Courfeyrac and Combeferre left the car, Enjolras ordering Marius to stay behind.

 

-.-.-

 

"Aw, fuck, dude!" Cosette yells at her brother, who was listening to the newest episode of The Dropout. "What?!" Enjolras paused the podcast and took off one earphone, "The hell did I do?!"

 

"Don't think I didn't notice the mess." She pointed to the splatters of white on the backseat and the discarded condom on the ground. "You whore."

 

Enjolras blinked and put his earphone back on. "I know I am."

the dropout is like... one of my fav podcasts. along w/ the series based off of it (2012 cosette/amanda seyfried is elizabeth holmes!!! like what?????????) i think enj would be the type of person who likes to listen to podcasts abt rich ppl scandals.