Title: Les Fantômes Visibles
Work ID: 46673542
Author: EeveebethFejvu
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Soulmates, Alternate Universe - Daemons, Soulmate-Identifying Marks, Soulmate Daemons, Daemons, Madeleine Era, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Romani Javert (Les Misérables), Valvert Week 2023
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

 

“It is our conviction that if souls were visible to the eyes, we should be able to see distinctly that strange thing that each one individual of the human race corresponds to some one of the species of the animal creation… Animals are nothing else than the figures of our virtues and our vices, straying before our eyes, the visible phantoms of our souls.” 

Victor Hugo, Les Misérables, 1.5.5

 

 

Concealed beneath the shadows of an alleyway, a step off the bustling main thoroughfare of M. sur M., stood the lofty, menacing figure of Javert. 

Shrouded within the thick folds of his frock-coat, Javert stood at attention and clutched his heavy cane in a white-knuckled grip. His eyes skimmed the throng of humans and daemons — a lively tumult of gallivanting fur and feathers, snouts and wings and tails — as the citizens of the town passed by his self-appointed station, unaware for the moment of the inspector’s lurking presence. 

Long minutes passed in accustomed silence as he surveyed the everyday scene. Then Javert’s gaze finally alighted upon his quarry, and his lip curled up in a pained grimace.

“What is that man, after all?” 

His eyes did not dart down to the creature sitting at his side, her back ramrod straight and her pointed ears swiveled forward. His eyes remained fixed on the unassuming figure of one M. Madeleine, who was strolling serenely down the street, returning the greetings of his fellow citizens with his customary benevolence. 

“We certainly have seen him somewhere,” Javert growled beneath his breath. “Have we not, Étoilestellae?”

The daemon at Javert’s side stared at M. Madeleine with the same penetrating intensity. 

With her mottled black pelt, brown underbelly, and iron-gray markings along her brow and the line of her jaws, Étoilestellae was a striking match for her human. They were both mongrels of the most terrible sort, bearing on   his swarthy skin and her sleek fur the warring heritages of the bohemian wolf and the domesticated hound. They were even attired the same; the wide, stiff collar buckled around the daemon’s neck was made of the same dark leather as his regulation stock.

Étoilestellae was the perfect canine equivalent of Javert in both form and bearing — the unmistakable manifestation of his soul.

She pondered M. Madeleine as he tipped his hat to a passing gentleman who had called out his name. Lifting her pointed muzzle, Étoilestellae’s nostrils flared as she took in the foul, rich scents of the main street, searching amongst them for some hint of a familiar fragrance, which might illuminate their shared chagrin. In this, the daemon was disappointed.

Still, there was something about the man that tugged faintly at Étoilestellae with a strange insistence, as if there was a long, thin chain attached to her collar and it was the demure and charitable M. Madeleine, of all humans, that held the other end.

Étoilestellae had felt a similar pull, years before, in another place. She did not think Javert would take well to such a comparison, however, so for now she kept this observation to herself. 

“We would know if we had,” Étoilestellae eventually replied, though her tone was less confident than her words. “We do not forget a face so easily. If we had seen him somewhere, we would remember.”

“I cannot recall another man with a field mouse for a daemon,” Javert conceded begrudgingly, as if hoping Étoilestellae would suddenly leap to her paws and dispute him. But she only shook her head, an exasperated huff escaping through her bared teeth.

Vexed, Javert glared at the figure of M. Madeline and wondered where the elusive daemon was hiding. 

Moisson was a shy creature, the man himself had told Javert, not long after they had been introduced. No doubt M. Madeline had noted the discomfort and suspicion lurking in the inspector’s eyes at the lack of visible daemon in his immediate vicinity; he had gently patted the pocket of his overcoat in explanation, and Javert and Étoilestellae had watched the fabric shiver and twist with the skittish movement of an unseen creature inside.

Shy indeed, Javert thought with a scowl. Since then, they had caught only the briefest glimpses of modest little Moisson — a twitching nose, a pink paw, a hairless tail thin as a whip, always spied through the protective cage of M. Madeline’s broad-fingered hands — before the daemon was quickly tucked away out of sight. 

Étoilestellae had not yet had the chance to speak with Moisson, or even to hear her voice, but she and Javert had decided that her silence was not so suspect as it might be from another person’s daemon. As venerated as M. Madeleine was in the town of M. sur M., he appeared to be a terribly private person, accustomed to keeping his own counsel. Did it not make sense, they mused, for the man’s daemon to be equally as taciturn?

“Well,” Javert grumbled. He slowly shook his head, the wolf-tail of his queue sliding against the shoulders of his frock-coat. “Well,” he repeated. Out of the corner of her eye, Étoilestellae watched as, with his free hand, Javert tightly clasped his left forearm in the manner of unconscious habit.

Beneath the many layers of fabric, on the soft underside of the man’s broad wrist lay Javert’s soulmark — that common brand carried by all of mankind, denoting his or her God-ordained soulmate through the shape and abstracted name of their daemon, that visible phantom of their soul. 

Javert’s own soulmark was, as of yet, still black as pitch, as was the mark of all who had yet to physically touch their soulmate’s daemon. Étoilestellae did not hold out much hope that this would change any time soon. It was likely, she thought, that she would never see her human’s soulmark flood with vibrant, living color as it manifested the many details of his soulmate’s daemon.

Still, the black form silhouetted on his wrist was clear enough: a passerine-like bird with wings outstretched, a curving branch lined with budding leaves clutched in its claws.

“Well,” Javert growled once more, fingers tightening on his wrist. For the first time since he had spotted M. Madeleine in the street, his gaze moved away from the man, but rather than turning towards his daemon or towards some other terrestrial target, Étoilestellae watched as Javert tilted his head back and looked up — past the edges of the rooftops and up further still, searching the clouded gray sky.

“In any case,” Javert muttered, “we are not his dupe.”