Title: Advent
Work ID: 43839552
Author: HoneyBeam521
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Gavroche Thénardier, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert
Additional Tags: Christmas Party, Christmas Fluff, Omorashi, Found Family, Everyone Is Alive
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

“Come along. No-one will notice.”

It was at that moment that a pair of wide brown eyes swung around in the direction of the furtive voice, eager to seize upon anything hoping to remain a secret. There was so little else upon which a blazing youthful mind could settle; whisperings and secret conversation were just about all that could interest Gavroche at a Christmas Eve “celebration” that was meant entirely for adults. The voice issued from a man with white hair and strong features standing beside someone tall and dark and slight—Monsieur Fauchelevant and Inspector Javert. Used to being no-one, unnoticed amid crowds and amid members of his own family, Gavroche listened.

“Are you quite certain?” Nervous? Why should the inspector be so? Gavroche remembered him from before. From the barricade. He remembered watching him waiting to die without giving away that he might be the least bit perturbed, and yet, here, amid a large, gay band of people, he bore the signs of nerves in his crossed arms and the uneven crunching of snow beneath his feet. Gavroche inched closer from his spot nestled at the feet of a stone angel.

“Yes. People are occupied by their own affairs. I’m certain I’ve heard you observe the same before.”

“But... what do you propose we do?” The distress in the inspector’s voice raised it another pitch. “We can’t—we can’t simply....”

“They are woods like any other. There is no harm in it.”

“They are not like any other... these belong to your daughter and son-in-law.”

“If you allowed them to know your anxieties, I’m sure they would pay it no mind. Why, I’m sure they would accommodate you in a far more genteel manner, were you to ask.” The inspector scoffed; Monsieur, lit golden by the sun as it began to set, smiled. “Come along now. I shouldn’t like to wait much longer, myself. Besides, the longer we tarry here, the longer we risk someone asking after us.”                                                                                                                                    

This seemed convincing enough for the inspector, for, then, Gavroche had descended his plinth and was following after Cosette’s father, on his heels like a shadow, away from the twinkling white and green and gold of the decorated yard and towards the small, thick area of woods that surrounded the recently-christened Pontmercy estate. Gavroche had no need to worry of eyes or ears—he knew the path to take around the merry-makers and the long privy line to ensure that he wasn’t seen—and then he had the pair in sight again.

They had already gained some distance when he found them again. This was, it seemed, no leisurely stroll through the woods, to whatever it was they were “doing” that worried Javert and Monsieur didn’t want to wait for. He had them within a comfortable distance after a light jog, and then he followed in an easy, untraceable path, cutting through brush that could conceal a slim youth with ease. As he watched the men, the taller and younger’s shadow touched the elder’s, reaching out and grasping for an arm and finding a hand. Gavroche’s eyes widened and his pace quickened; he had to remind himself not to stray too close if he didn’t want to be perceived.

“A little faster,” one of them said. Their voices were so quiet, but this place was as nothing to the city. Any noise Gavroche sought could be easily found.

Monsieur looked at his companion. “‘Faster’...? Are you well?”

A huff of breath took form in the icy air.

“Yes. Perhaps... perhaps I may have... waited for too long.” Although he still couldn’t begin to grasp at this thing around which everything the pair was doing seemed to revolve, Monsieur seemed to understand at once, for his face returned to a smile, and the pair began to walk slightly faster down the lightly-worn path through the trees.

“There are so many people, and there hasn’t been much opportunity. I understand.”

They were quiet for a solid minute, then, and the lack of worthwhile clues combined with the biting cold beginning to scrape its teeth along his ears and nose had Gavroche unsure that he wanted to pursue this secret any further. He was prepared to turn around and leave Monsieur and the inspector to their mystery when they finally stopped where the pines were dense around them and released each other’s hands.

“Do you think this is far enough?” Only Gavroche’s years of tracing people allowed him to get away without laughing outright at the fear that was still there in this man that he’d once thought fearless—and what could he possibly be afraid of?

“How do you think we could be heard from this distance?” Monsieur asked, incredulous. “Keep calm, Javert. We’ll return in a moment.”

Before Gavroche’s mind could begin to spin any unlikely ideas about whatever noise-making thing the inspector and Monsieur might be getting up to, his questions were answered for him: Although their backs were turned towards him, Gavroche could still see and hear plenty, and he heard the quick undoing of belts, saw the shifting around of clothes, and then the unmistakable sight and sound of... peeing?

Yes, it was unmistakable. But it was also so surprising that Gavroche had to stare for some moments to get into his mind that, yes, that was really what was happening: Cosette’s father, mild and friendly and reserved and always absolutely proper, and the hard and straight and restrained inspector—both were just standing there in the trees, letting loose openly without waiting their turn for the privy like everyone else. It was the sort of thing Gavroche’s mother would have given him a good slap for as a child, and that was without the additional spectacle of steam rising from the snowdrifts where they’d gone.

Again, by the miracle of his urchin’s will to remain unseen, Gavroche managed to not to make a noise. He did keep on watching them, though, laughing heartily in his head and working out how he’d spin the story to Cosette later on. He watched them as they went on, and on (and on, in the inspector’s case) and finally finished, and, when they had righted themselves again, they took up some snow from the edge of the wood to rinse their hands. Monsieur turned around and made towards the path again, but—

“Just a moment,” said the inspector’s voice—softer and deeper now—and he laid a hand on Monsieur’s shoulder. Gavroche wasn’t altogether certain that he wanted to witness whatever followed all that he’d already seen, but neither was going to let his curiosity go unsatisfied.

Everyone listening expected more from Inspector Javert, but he didn’t say anything else. He just stood there, painted in burning orange and black by the winter setting sun filtering through the trees, and held onto the man before him. Eventually, Monsieur, whose face Gavroche could see looking bemused but kind, offered a quiet,

“Yes?”

Then there was movement in the shadows, then the taller of the men took a step forward and—what? Gavroche had to shuffle around his concealing bush to see, but when he saw, he was instantly stunned onto his backside: They were kissing! Gavroche stood and blinked and rubbed at his eyes, and yet they still showed him the same: The inspector with his lips still upon Monsieur’s, and not lightly, either, but in the way that always seemed to get people thrown out of the dark corners of inns: a firm and lingering thing.

Monsieur, Gavroche realized, when he was capable of taking in the reality of anything again, bore the mirror of Gavroche’s shock on his face, but without any hint of the nausea. His eyes were wide and sparkling in the fading light; his hand, as it came to rest on the inspector’s waist, shook as if it still held a handful of snow. But he did not push or move away. Rather, his other hand came upward, touching the inspector’s face. The pair moved closer together, merging into one large, dark shadow against the sunset, and all at once Gavroche was aware that he was intruding upon something he no longer wished to be.

With that, he took his leave of them. He may have trodden over a branch or two in his retreat, but he hardly noticed—he was taken in by thought. Thoughts spun through Gavroche’s mind, wild and wordless, and he couldn’t begin to think of what to say, what to make of what he’d seen. He knew only one thing certainly: He had to tell Cosette.

Thankfully, as the weather was growing colder, and the anticipated storms were lurking on the horizon, the yard from which Gavroche had come had cleared out, and even the house seemed much freer of people than it had before. Cosette was easy to find, sparkling like a star, looking pale and pretty with her furs and silver stuff sparkling like unmelting snow in her rich brown hair. When he found her, Cosette was standing in the front hallway graciously bidding good-bye to those guests who were preparing to take their leave.

“Cosette!” Gavroche cried out as soon as he found Cosette free of occupation. He supposed he could have simply come up to her, but there was nothing like seeing his sister turn around and greet him with that candlelight smile of hers.

“Good evening, Gavroche—I wondered where you were,” she said, and opened her arm to invite him close to her side. “Did you need something?”

“Yes—to talk to you,” he whispered into her ear. Without any question, Cosette nodded and began shepherding Gavroche towards the bedroom he had been occupying since he’d begun attending school. Whispers were serious between them—Cosette knew that her brother didn’t lower his voice for trivial affairs.

“What is it?” She asked softly as soon as they were safely ensconced within the room, sitting side-by-side on Gavroche’s fluffy feather bed. Gavroche found he had a little trouble meeting Cosette’s earnest blue gaze. The words to put the things he’d seen out in the forest into words still hadn’t come.

“It’s... well... it’s about Monsieur.” Cosette’s gentle grip on Gavroche’s arm twitched.

“Papa? Is he all right?” Gavroche let out a staccato laugh that made them both jump a little.

“Yes... I think so... I just saw him together with Inspector Javert... they went off into the woods together, and they....” Gavroche waved his hand around in the air in front of him. Cosette failed to understand.

“‘They’... what?”

“This is a secret, okay?” Gavroche said suddenly. “We’ve got to keep it a secret. I don’t know if Grandfather would like it... or, I mean—”

“Gavroche,” Cosette began soothingly, “you know I’d never do anything to hurt Papa or you. You can tell me what you saw.”

“Okay.” Gavroche clenched his fists and swallowed. Just how much was he revealing about Monsieur? Would he be ruining something between Cosette and her father by telling her this? Or did it all mean nothing? He was standing at an edge, unsure if he were stepping into the ocean or falling off the edge of the world. “Maybe you won’t think it’s so terrible, I mean, you kiss Marius all the time, but... anyhow... I saw the inspector kissing Monsieur.”

Cosette drew back to look Gavroche in the face, blinking. She didn’t look nauseated—only prettily stunned, like a dove blinking into bright sunlight. The pair sat in silence for a moment before Cosette’s head tilted and her warm curls fell onto her shoulder and she asked softly, “Was this kiss... a brotherly one?”

Gavroche’s face twisted in thought. “How do you mean?”

“You know... like I might kiss you. On the cheek, on the forehead; in the hair. Like that.”

“No, no,” Gavroche shook his head resolutely in rhythm with his words. “No... it was more... I don’t know... husband and wife? I don’t know how to say it. I just know it made me want to leave them, so I did.”

The light grip Cosette had maintained on Gavroche’s arm fell, and she leaned back against the wall, eyes unfocused. As he knew his sister to occasionally become thoughtful in this way, Gavroche scooted backwards to join her, staring up at the shadowed ceiling cast slightly gold by the lamp Cosette had brought in with them. They sat together in this attitude for some time, until Gavroche heard a sniffle beside him, and saw Cosette’s oceanic eyes overflowing with tears.

“Oh, no... it’s not that bad, is it?” Gavroche fretted. Cosette hid her eyes with one of her dainty hands; somehow, her lips were still curved in a shaky smile. “I shouldn’t have told you... I’m sorry... I just thought you should—”

“No... no, don’t... m-misunderstand,” Cosette said through a watery stutter. Her free hand came to grasp Gavroche’s. “It’s just... oh, Gavroche... I’ve just been so worried for Papa... worried that he would be lonely when I got married and we got this house... worried when you went off to school, knowing that he’d be all alone....” She paused, and let out a strange half-laugh, half-sob. “But... perhaps he’s not.”

Cosette’s thought struck Gavroche hard, and made him think, too. Monsieur and the inspector had held each other’s hands... and they spoke so easily to each other, when they did to no-one else....

“I think... I think you’re right,” Gavroche said, and, suddenly, he couldn’t help the grin forming on his face. The thought of Monsieur being happy instead of somber, glad with someone to whom his pole aligned, as his schoolmaster might have put it, was a really grand one. “We should help them out however we can. Even if it has to be secret.”

When Cosette looked at him again, though her eyes were still quite wet, Gavroche was sure he was that spark of mischievous zeal that he’d always loved in his sister’s gaze.

“We can seat them side-by-side at dinners,” she said.

“And you could buy them gifts together for holidays!”

“And I could ‘accidentally’ have them stay together in the ‘bridal suite’... the guest bedroom with the single bed.”

Both of them dissolved into uncontrolled giggles at that point, giggles loud and protracted enough to attract attention from the outside. A brisk knock and no answer but another squeal of laughter drew Marius Pontmercy into the room with them.

“There you are, darling—people have been waiting to bid farewell to their hostess! The weather’s becoming quite inclement,” he said, and only then seemed to realize the state of hilarity his wife and Gavroche had been enthralled in. He furrowed his dark eyebrows at the pair of them. “Are you two all right?”

“Never better, my love,” Cosette said after a breath, and leaned up to press a kiss to Marius’ cheek. “Give me a moment to wipe my face, will you? I’ll be right there.”

Marius shrugged and bowed out without another word. Gavroche jumped from the bed and moved to follow him, but paused in the doorway. He’d remembered something.

“Cosette?”

“Yes, Gavroche?” A pink-faced Cosette replied, mopping at her cheeks with a lacy handkerchief.

“There’s another secret I learned about Monsieur and the inspector today. I forgot to tell you before.”

“Oh? What’s that?”

“I saw them give up on the privy line and go pee together in the woods.”


“What—?!”


“Okay, well, I’ll see you later, Cosette!” And Gavroche dashed from the doorway with his face and lungs burning with laughter.

Although she now lived apart from him, Jean Valjean considered it among his duties to see to his daughter’s guests. As the evening grew longer and darker, Jean took up a spot in the front hallway and began bidding goodbye to people as they departed in his daughter’s absence. He knew her to be busy preparing rooms for those who were to stay the night, and was genuinely satisfied to be able to do something to assist Cosette in her new home.

“A safe journey to you,” Jean bid a pair of Cosette’s friends from church and watched them smilingly leave out the front door to their carriage. He stretched and cast a look around as soon as the door was closed, awaiting more departures, when—

“Valjean.”

The low voice from behind him put Jean in mind of times long past. He wondered for how long Javert had been waiting, with that agonizing patience of his, for his turn to speak.

“What is it?” Jean asked, and turned his head a little to meet the familiar cool gaze. Not too hard, not icy—but cool, concerned.

“The hour grows late.”

“Yes.”

“And the storm outside has intensified.”

“I’ve heard it spoken of, yes.”

“Do you not think it best that we took our leave?”

Jean looked about the room, then back at Javert. “There are a few more people to whom I must extend the family’s well-wishes. Then we may be on our way.”

The polished floor squealed under Javert’s heel as he turned away, and his noise of discontent was not inaudible, even if he thought it so. The man pulled his long grey coat close about him and stood resolutely by the doorway before Jean; Cosette was descending the front stairs as he did so, and her gaze held on him as she greeted her father with a kiss to the cheek.

“I can see to the rest of the guests, Papa... is there something the matter with Monsieur Javert?”

“Ah... well....” It wasn’t his responsibility. Jean knew it, and yet he found himself feeling abashed by the somewhat childish behavior of his companion anyhow. “He’s simply concerned about our ability to find a way back to our homes in the weather that has descended, as neither of us has a private carriage. I’ve been told that—”

“You can stay here for tonight!” Cosette cut in brightly, and so abruptly that Jean was left with his mouth hanging open. The dear girl took Jean’s large hand in two of her little slender ones. “I’ll just go and make up one of the spare rooms—I know just the one! You and Monsieur Javert wait right here. I’ll be back in no time.”

“But... Cosette, I don’t—” It seemed that Cosette was immune to protest, however, and she had flown and disappeared up the stairs before Jean could even suggest consulting Javert for his opinion.

Thus, it was up to Jean to deliver the news of the change to Javert—and he had no delusions concerning how well the delivery was to be taken. Particularly when, on his approach, Javert was already tapping both his fingers and his heel with impatience.

“Are we leaving?” Jean wavered. Brave a man though he was, Jean Valjean was very nearly cowed by the frigid question. He almost would rather have denied his daughter than face what he would from Javert.

“Ah... well... you yourself said that the storm was growing ‘intense,’ correct?”

“Correct,” Javert said brusquely, “thus: We should be leaving. We should have gone already.”

“Well... have you considered the thought that... perhaps... we might not leave tonight?” Javert threw his head back into one of his eerie silent laughs, revealing his wolfish teeth.

“Stay here? Impose ourselves upon your daughter’s household? Nonsense.”

“But what if it were no imposition? What if she asked that we stay?”

That seemed to shake Javert a little. So Jean thought, anyhow, in observing the abrupt dissipation of sardonic mirth and the groundward gaze. Javert spoke after a time.

“I haven’t any things of mine here. I should have to borrow everything from the house.”

“As would I,” Jean reminded him gently. “You would be taking no more from the family than I.”

“But... I....” As Javert searched for a firmer argument with which to justify his mad desire to search for a fiacre in the dark during a snow storm, an angel with a rose-cheeked face and a halo of chestnut hair rounded a corner and came floating down the stairs towards the pair, smiling the most benevolent white smile.

“It’s ready—come upstairs!” As if she had some grand secret to share with them, Cosette boldly took their hands—one of Jean’s, one of Javert’s—and preceded them up the stairs, down a hallway, then up another stairwell, and to a tall, white door. Never once did the smile shift from her face. “I told Marius you’d both be staying. I even told him that you’d be staying in this room, but he hardly knows anything about the guest bedrooms.... Anyhow, if you should need anything in the night, come straight to me. Our bedroom is just down the hallway.”

Cosette opened the door with a large brass key, pulled the two men inside as if they were wayward children she was leading home, and withdrew. Before exiting entirely, she whirled around to kiss her father, press the key into his hand, and interrupt the beginnings of his protest with words of her own.

“It’s okay, Papa. Gavroche told me everything,” she whispered. She had turned to leave when she took another whirling turn and said even more furtively, “Oh, and I left chamber pots for the pair of you.”

Maybe Cosette bid him goodnight. Maybe she didn’t. Jean couldn’t recall, only that, next he was aware, he was staring at the closed bedroom door, and Javert was calling his name with such sharpness that Jean was sure he’d been called at least once already.

“What is it, Javert?”

“You haven’t observed the room.”

Jean sighed. “I’ve observed the rooms in my daughter’s home before, Javert. I can assure you that they’re all perfectly satisfactory.”

“Are you quite sure?”

Having already gotten hints from the rich blue carpet, the fine woodwork, and the large fire glowing in the hearth behind them, Jean was “quite sure,” and ill-prepared for any founded complaints from Javert. Was this not a man unused to luxury? What could possibly offend Javert in this place? Jean turned around and observed the room fully, and was forced to pause.

“...Ah.”

“Yes, ‘ah.’”

“Well....”

“Did you not request accommodation for two?”

“I didn’t request a thing! Cosette made preparations as soon as I expressed concern with travelling. I asked her for nothing.”

“Well, then... why has she provided us with a single bed?” Javert shot. “Did your daughter, perhaps, put us in the wrong room?”

Jean cast his gaze over the room once more: Over the large hearth, the fine carpet, and, crown of the room, a huge four-poster bed carved in dark wood and made up in ocean blue—and he thought back to what Cosette had said to him. He put his warm face in his hand and shook his head.

“No... no, she... told me quite precisely that she intended for this to be our room.”

“Well, then... why would she have done such a thing?” The agitation in Javert’s voice rose; Jean would have reached out to him, but for the fact that the man began pacing before the fire. “Does your daughter think that, simply because I am not a member of her family, I shall consent to sleeping on the floor like an animal? If so, then I should like to speak with your daughter before I take my leave of this place.”

Jean was forced to take a moment to shake his head free of the bewilderment accompanying Javert’s conclusion about the room before he spoke.

“That is... a ridiculous thought, Javert,” he said frankly, and reached out to Javert by the shoulder, pausing him; forcing him to listen as well he could. “She doesn’t think little of you. She cares about you too, I’m sure of it.” The dubious look in Javert’s eyes made Jean continue on with a sigh, “Cosette... has found out about us.” Javert’s gaze sharpened with a catlike wariness.

“‘Us’?’

“Evidently, young Gavroche saw us earlier. When we took our sojourn in the forest.” Javert rapidly when ashy in the face, and his breaths came noticeably faster. Jean took his other shoulder.

“We have to leave,” Javert hissed under his breath, “we—I—don’t want this for your family, for—!”

“Please,” Jean bid, a sigh of a word. “Isn’t this proof enough to you that my daughter doesn’t mind? Isn’t this—” he held up the key to the room, “proof enough that she intends to tell no-one? Cosette can be trusted with the world, Javert. Trust her with this.”

Slowly, between Jean’s hands, Javert began to breathe slower again. His face returned to its normal coloring—it may have even flushed slightly—and he spoke.

“Fine,” he said, though he didn’t meet Jean’s eyes. “There is still the matter of the bed, however.” Jean looked between Javert and the item of concern.

“Are you bothered by the prospect of sharing a bed?”

“I... don’t know how to describe the feeling the thought brings on,” Javert replied, touching his throat. “It isn’t especially pleasant.”

Jean frowned. “Well, then, perhaps I should—”

“It is simply that... we have never once addressed the last time we slept beside one another.” The truth that could fall out of Javert if prompted really astounded Jean sometimes. “I had thought... perhaps... it was an experiment not to be repeated.”

In truth, Jean barely considered what had happened the night he had pulled Javert from the Seine to be “sleep beside one another.” It was the act of one man seeking to keep the other alive, remaining with him through the night to ensure that he suffered no lapse in his heartbeat or breath or other necessity of life. It had been no romantic or even fraternal gesture—it was, simply, what had had to be done. Comparing that and this evening was akin to comparing a mouthful of dirty water in the galleys to a sip of fine wine at a banquet.

“This... is not like that,” Jean said slowly. “I needed to certain myself that you would live that night. I didn’t consider that it might want further explanation.” Jean ran his hands down from Javert’s shoulders to his hands and grasped them tight. Javert didn’t look up, still; didn’t smile. “Tonight, I want to have you in bed with me, Javert. Please.”

At last, Javert’s gaze was on him again, and at last there returned a squareness to his shoulders and a steadiness to his bearing. They looked at each other for some time, unmoving; Jean wondered if he had said quite the right thing until Javert spoke.

“For you, Jean Valjean.”

With that, the man of daring from the forest reappeared, reaching out to hold Jean’s face and bring him close for the second of his kisses. The forest’s had been a study in contrast, of the burning light of the sunset and icy shadows, of the stinging air and warm but tentative lips; this, instead, was slow and luxurious, decadent as the Gillenormand trappings that surrounded them; sure and heady and indulgent as warm brandy flowing down the throat.

The fleeting thought that this could be better, that they could fully share one another’s embrace flickered across Jean’s mind, and then he was drawing them slowly backward together, hands on Javert’s slim waist, until they could sit on the edge of the bed. Jean pressed wordlessly at Javert’s elbows, encouraging him to tip onto his side, but he wouldn’t move.

“Our clothes,” Javert murmured, shocking Jean with his boldness, until, “Surely we mustn’t dirty the bed with these clothes... did your daughter provide us with sleepwear?”

Jean pulled away with a rueful crinkle at the corners of his mouth. “I have had occasion to stay the night here before, and have always been provided for.” Jean experimentally opened a small cupboard by the bed to be greeted, not with the sight of a basin or folded nightgowns, but with two porcelain chamber pots. Jean shut the door abruptly and cleared his throat—he had managed to forget what else Cosette knew.

“What is it?” Javert asked. “What did you find?”

“Nothing... it’s only that... ah....” Somehow, in his brain’s haste to come up with a gentle way of revealing more humiliating truth to Javert, the body moved him to another corner of the room and extracted a pair of long white nightgowns from the dresser against the wall. “It’s only that.... You recall when we walked into the woods earlier this evening?”

“Yes,” Javert said, after a humorless space of silence.

“Yes, well, you see... it would seem that Gavroche observed us—”

“I am well aware of that, that is why—”

“—in all that we did in the forest. If you understand me.”

It had to be fortunate that Jean had already led Javert to the bed to sit, for it may have been dangerous for the man to be erect just then. His face had gone ashen again in the space of a moment.

“They—they know about—?”

“Yes. Cosette... informed me.” Jean said, and hastened to add, “But she is as unbothered by it as by everything else.”

Javert gazed his distant gaze in Jean’s direction once more. “We have to leave this place. Hide ourselves... hope that they forget....”

Jean dropped one of the nightgowns onto Javert’s lap and pressed a kiss to his temple.

“Let us sleep, Javert,” he said, shucking off his boots, then his coat. “Tomorrow will be better.”

The morning was scarcely an improvement over the previous day.

Yes, the bed had been more comfortable than anything he’d ever been privileged to sleep in before. Yes, there was something to be said for lying beside a person for whom one confessed a deep-seated feeling. But sleep had hardly come to Javert during the night, for his brain would simply not let go of what Valjean had told him: Cosette Pontmercy knew. He didn’t know exactly how much she knew, how much the boy had seen; he didn’t know, personally, the extent of the damage that had been done to his and Valjean’s reputations by what had happened. But the girl knew something, and, after hours of lying awake, staring into the near-blackness lit by a dying fire and wrapped in solid arms, Javert determined that he could only rest if he discovered what she knew.

Thus, Javert rose in the morning seized by the dual energies of a mental preoccupation and determined insomnia that had him removed from Valjean’s embrace and pacing the floor again long before it was time to be seen downstairs. By the time Valjean rose, Javert was already dressed and waiting for him.

“The weather is significantly clearer this morning,” he proclaimed to a slow-moving Valjean, who was still in the process of rubbing his eyes and pulling himself up from the lavish bed. “I propose that we leave as soon as I’ve had a moment to speak with Madame Pontmercy.”

Valjean was halfway through stretching as Javert finished, and stopped the languid motion with such violence that it appeared painful.

“Speak with Cosette? Why?” Javert looked steadily into Valjean’s bemused face.

“I wish to know everything she knows. It is important to me to be aware of the facts.” Valjean sighed, and Javert thought he understood, and his words were more terse as he went on, “You needn’t come. I would rather you didn’t.”

“Fine,” Valjean replied, shaking his head, “but you’ll only find what I told you to be true.”

“We shall see.”

With that, Javert left Valjean to change back into his clothes and stepped out into the grand hallway of the Pontmercy estate. He didn’t have long to wait before Valjean joined him. As soon as they’d made their way out into the hallway, they were met with the very girl Javert was so anxious to speak to, smiling a wide, pink-cheeked smile, as if everything were well with the world.

“Good morning, Papa,” she said, almost laughed, and exchanged kisses on the cheek with her father. When she released him, she turned to Javert with a bit of a pause, but no waver in her curious brightness. “And good morning, Monsieur Javert. I hope you both slept well.”

Struck dumb by the forthrightness of Fantine’s daughter, the words that Javert had planned at once refused to come out. Valjean spoke for him.

“Monsieur Javert wished to have a word with you before we depart this morning.” Finding no qualms with the way his desire was expressed, Javert nodded. The young woman pouted in such a way that made her look many years her junior.

“But you must stay for breakfast—and Christmas dinner! Will you really leave before that, Papa?” It was Valjean’s turn to be at a loss for words, though he recovered much more quickly.

“Well... talk to Monsieur Javert first. Then we’ll see.”

“All right. Well, if you’re not coming with us, there should already be some breakfast laid out in the dining room. You can start eating whenever you like,” the young Madame Pontmercy said. Javert had the horrifying thought that she might try to take his hand and lead them off somewhere, but, no: She simply moved past him into the hall from which he’d come and brought them back into the fine bedroom she’d put him and Valjean in the night before.

“What is it you wanted to talk with me about?” She asked as soon as the door had closed behind them. Javert was quite certain that she already knew, however; she didn’t seem the least bit surprised when he addressed the matter.

“Myself and Monsieur Fauchelevant,” Javert said, thrusting at the heart of the subject. “What were you told that we did last evening?”

“Well... I know that the pair of you were perfect gentlemen, and everyone enjoyed your company,” the girl offered. Javert scoffed, and she went on. “However... my little brother, naughty thing that he is, told me that he followed you and my father once last evening... and he saw you doing some things with Papa.”

“What ‘things,’ Madame Pontmercy?” Javert demanded. The young woman’s eyebrows had fully disappeared into her gold-and-brown locks when he next looked into her face.

“He told me that you... skipped the privy line and were... taking relief in the forest,” she said, almost unflustered. Only her delayed manner of speaking and her brighter blush gave her away. “He also told me that he saw you kissing Papa. And not like a brother.”

Javert let out a groan and put his hand over his eyes. So. This was the way his brief liaison with indulgence was to end.

“I don’t mind any of it, though!” Javert scoffed once more, and Madame Pontmercy’s voice grew harder. “It’s true, Monsieur Javert. I don’t mind it. I know that you and Papa care about each other... what reason could I have to take offense at you?”

“Must I say, Madame? Must I debase myself before you further?” Raising his eyes from his hand, Javert found the girl looking not repulsed, no longer shocked, but, rather, angry. Towards him. Javert felt the muscles in his neck fill with tension as he looked upon her.

“I see no reason to,” she said, almost coldly. “And why should you be looking for those reasons? Don’t you want to make Papa happy?”

“I... do... however—”

“If you want to make Papa happy, if you’re going to be by his side... that’s all I need to know.” Any hardness in the young woman’s face melted away, back into her soft expression of glowing contentment that characterized her. Cosette reached out a hand, but did not take Javert’s. She merely held hers out, palm upward. “You’re my family too, then, Monsieur Javert. Papa loves you. I love you. The family loves you. It’s as simple as that.”

There was silence again. Whatever words Javert had prepared to speak to Madame Pontmercy had evaporated from his head. In its place there was nothing at all but the words she’d just proclaimed and the sight of her little hand offering itself to him. After several moments, Javert reached out and grasped the girl’s hand in return.

“Thank you, Madame.” He couldn’t help the waver in his voice any more than he could help his need to breathe.

“Cosette,” she said, catching Javert’s restless gaze. She was smiling again. Javert smiled, too.

“Cosette.”

“Come along,” she said brightly, and lifted them both to their feet. Somehow, although he knew they weren’t truly father and daughter, it seemed to Javert that Cosette had inherited something of Jean Valjean’s strength. “Let’s have breakfast with Papa. You can stay through Christmas dinner, but only if you’d like to.”

“Thank you.”

“No more thanks,” she said, with no reproof. Only warmth. “I don’t need them.”

With that, they walked down from the room arm-in-arm, and greeted the rest of their family where they sat, gathered around a table decorated in greens and reds and flickering lights, delighting in their Christmas morning together.