Title: Animal Submission
Work ID: 48176800
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: BDSM, Submissive Javert, Alpha Javert, Dom Valjean, Omega Valjean, Violence, Rape Mentions, threats of sexual assault, I promise it's not that grim, Javert is horny, at least this time he knows he is, Will add more tags as we go, Masturbation, Javert's self delusion, wet dreams, Coming In Pants, Sadomasochism, Masochism
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 3/10

 


In truth, Javert had never been afraid for his future. Despite the grim nature of his birth, he had always felt promised something. His sheer size and the potency of his Alpha blood had always meant that society would have some place for him, even if it were to be the bodyguard of some polished knob. No, Javert’s problem had always been that he wanted more. 



He had always stood out from his peers, those peers being the numerable Alpha in the prison he was born into. Larger than any other, with his Cro-Magnon brow, powerful facial muscles, lantern jaw, and the four projecting fangs, grown so large that they had begun to jut forward beyond his lips; Javert had been told from an early age that he was a ‘historic throwback,’ a term said with a variety of intonations from fond amusement to sneering contempt. Yes, his sheer size and power, the sheer dominance of his anatomy and scent, had assured him he would one day be somebody. 



He acquired the job of prison guard with all of the self-assurance of someone who had never felt doubt, and he did well at it. It only took a few dominance battles before he had the many Alpha’s, both prisoner and guard alike, lowering their eyes in his presence. When he was done subduing that first place, he looked for somewhere better where he might grow.



His reputation gained him a job in a prison called Toulon.



 



Toulon



 



Toulon is by the sea and he flares his wide nostrils and breathes in deeply the unfamiliar salty smell as the carriage takes him along the dirt road that leads to the formidable sand-brown walls. When he unfolds himself from the carriage, and has grabbed his little luggage in his big veiny hand, he is greeted by the Old Bull Head Warden. The man gives him the familiar appraisal. It is always the same meeting an Alpha: half testing him to see if he might be dominated and half approval of his physiognomy. Javert removes his hat and bows his head in a sign of respect. The Alpha before him relaxes at the gesture.



“Welcome Monsieur Javert, we’ve been looking forward to your arrival. I have heard only good things about you. You’re even taller than they warned us!” he chuckles and he leads Javert inside.



 



The tension that fills the prison as he enters is expected and welcomed. As he is led along the walkways the many Alpha prisoners and guards alike pause to sniff the air. They smell his pheromones on the wind and he makes no effort to mask himself. Their many eyes follow him and he paces with steady confidence, ears and eyes only for his new superior as he is informed of his duties and the new routines he must follow. When he is shown into the guard’s quarters he has to duck under the doorway and he must grimace at the sight of the beds for the warden smiles apologetically,



“As I said: we didn’t expect you to be so tall. I’m sure we can sort something out for you, if you’re willing to sleep on a straw mattress on the floor that is?” he seems to chuckle nervously,



“Yes,” Javert says, speaking for the first time, a low deep rumble, “that would be fine.”



 



Javert leaves his little suitcase on his too small bed and follows the Warden out again to tread a route around the prison. They head outside into the burning sun and Javert has to cover his eyes for a moment. Here by the docks, prisoners in chains are hauling and assembling boats. Javert pauses and then moves with a quick, disjointed pace to the edge of the walkway. He shoves his nose in the air and huffs in quickly, tasting the air in his open mouth. It is a smell he has never smelt before, a smell that is powerful, almost overwhelming in how it drowns out all the other smells of the frankly foul place. It makes his skin prickle and the hair rise all over his body. Something low in his gut turns over and leaves him slightly queasy.



“You’ve smelt him then?” the Warden says, stepping up beside Javert with an amused twinkle in his eye. Javert immediately reddens,



“Don’t be embarrassed,” the Old Bull says, “you wouldn’t be the first to react like that. Most Alpha guards get over it, or at least they pretend they’ve gotten over it well enough.”



 



He points down but before his finger can direct Javert’s black pinprick eyes they have already found their target: an immense bronze body. You would think it were the body of an Alpha, and an impressive one at that, if it were not for the marvellous smell that radiates from it, heightened by the lack of perfumes and regular washing. Javert’s mouth waters and he discretely wipes it.



“Unusual,” the Warden says, “to have an Omega in prison. Not just because they usually don’t commit crimes but… well, no doubt you know why Omega are not kept in Alpha prisons. You would think it would be too dangerous for him here but the man is so damn strong- ridiculously strong, do not underestimate him- that he’s had no trouble defending himself from untoward attention.”



“An Omega…” Javert whispers. No wonder the smell had been unfamiliar: he has not been near one since he went through puberty. He swallows heavily. This will be a new challenge. He does not know what to expect.



“What do you do with him when he’s in heat? Does he have a mate?”



“No,” the Warden says, "he has refused every advance and I don’t blame him. Who’d want to tie themselves to one of these animals? We lock him in solitary. We have a zero-tolerance policy for guard and prisoner relations mind you,” he says, quirking a brow at Javert.



Javert nods.



“He’s dangerous,” the Warden says watching Javert with a serious look, eyes searching his inexpressive face, “don’t mistake him. Don’t assume you know him because you know his biology. He’s no submissive; he’s not meek, he’s not cowardly. He’s been in prison for nineteen years-”



“Nineteen years?”



“Extended sentence because he keeps escaping.”



Javert grunts. He has not taken his eyes of the broad back and shaved head.  



“Even a big fellow like you he might get one over.”



“I’ll keep that in mind,” Javert says,



“Show no weakness.”



A slow, unpleasant smiles spreads across Javert’s primordial face, 



“I never do.”



 



The other guards’ approach Javert with the wariness he expects from his fellow Alpha’s and it doesn’t take long before they’re drawing him into the usual hierarchy scuffles. They regret it. He soon stands beneath only the warden in the pecking order, not officially of course, but for Alpha the official records come secondary to the old old rule of strength. This place is not so different from where he worked before, or perhaps it is that Alpha’s are the same the country over because Javert is soon bored. Not bored perhaps, but inured to the routine and restriction of the place. He still feels he can do more. 



 



There is only one person who gives him challenge and that is the Omega, a fact that both surprises him and doesn’t. He had expected to struggle with the unexpected. He has never felt like he feels when he smells the Omega, had never thought himself capable of it. Of course, as a young boy he had been privy to cons talking about it: the sweet seductive smell of an Omega, but he had never fully understood the animal power it had, the way it took hold of your hind-brain and wrestled with your reason. Javert finds himself battling his own senses in the man’s presence, wanting nothing more than to stare at him and smell him, mouth open and hungry. The world shrinks to the head of a pin and the Omega is the beautiful angel dancing on its prick. Speaking of, he has developed a new hobby to quell his awakened desires and he finds himself immensely grateful to have his own ‘room:’ a storage cupboard where his long straw bed can be stretched out. Worst of all, more distracting than even the hot pulses of desire that draw his eyes with an iron grip to watch the trail of a single drop of sweat down the man’s back, is the possessiveness and aggression he finds build in him over the years. The Omega is not his and will never be his and, although his mind is glad to have more sensible taste than to desire to tie himself irrevocably to a criminal, his body disagrees. 



 



For all the intensity of Javert’s unwanted feelings towards the man, the Omega seems to have no interest in him at all.



It seems to him, proud and hateful as he is, that Javert is no different from any other musk-stink Alpha throwing their weight around. He treats Javert with a contempt that brings bile to the back of Javert’s throat. As if he, of all people, stands above Javert and not only Javert but every other guard and prisoner in Toulon. This attitude antagonises Javert no end and only makes his desire heighten; his fantasies of seeing the proud man submit to him only grow stronger with time. In the night the image of that powerful, sweating body, dirty and muscular teases and torments him. He does not act on his desire, at least to no greater degree than to perhaps look a little too long and intensely.



Of course, he’s not the only Alpha who feels this way. This makes the situation worse. To his bestial mind his colleagues become his competition. Competition for a prize his intelligent human consciousness knows he does not want to win. Still, he is not a beast, he is a man and one of immense will. He resists.



Then comes the ultimate challenge. It has been three years since he started work at Toulon and the Warden is making motions as if he intends to retire. Javert will be his obvious replacement, that is good. It is all going as it should when one morning Javert wakes rock hard, heart pounding in his chest. His head swims and he becomes quickly aware that it is a smell that has woken him, one that is quickly driving him to madness. He leaps from his bed, a disjointed mess of limbs, and staggers to his bedroom door. He wrenches it open and comes face to face with the Warden who is pale-faced and wide-eyed. He holds out a candle holder with melted wax pooled in the bottom, still warm, and says,



“Stick it up your nose!”



Javert takes two fingerfuls of the white wax and blocks his nostrils with it. It’s not a solution, he can still taste the pheromones on his tongue, but it weakens the effect. He wipes his brow and finds himself wet with sweat,



“What’s happening?” he growls as he draws on his trousers, somehow, instinctually, already knowing the answer. 



“We need to get 24601 into solitary- goddammit!” the Warden curses, turning and leading Javert quickly down the corridor towards the prisoners sleeping quarters, “Rousseau was supposed to be tracking his seasons!”



Javert curls his lip in contempt. What a man to put in charge of such a thing, Rousseau is without a doubt incompetent. 



The sounds of snarling and fighting greet their ears and they move from a rushed walk to a solid jog until they come to the bars of the cells. 24601 is just about visible, pressed up in a corner, the two Beta chained to him by their ankles are cowering. Javert’s heart pounds in his chest with a mixture of intense desire, possessiveness and relief to see him untouched. But there is danger present and persistent. The Alpha guards are already in the cell beating at the slathering Alpha convicts with their batons while the Beta guards hold the general mess back.



Javert feels himself bristle all over as he is driven to enter also, baton drawn. The Beta guards and convicts, and Old Bulls, part for him and he catches one Alpha by the back of his thin shirt and rips it clean from his back as he tries to yank him away from 24601. The man snarls and turns, leaping at Javert and Javert bares his teeth in return and strikes him with a solid punch to the face, knocking him, twisting, to the floor. One of the larger Alpha convicts, 56742 has clearly established himself as the prime candidate for romance because he makes a headlong advance for 24601. This will not do. Javert gives him a good warning bark but the convict only curls his lip to show his fangs and Javert leaps upon him brandishing his baton. He beats the man well over his head and, when he brings his arm up to guard himself, his elbow too. There is no point showing mercy or being gentle with these creatures in their heat: they will fight until they are broken when in the rutting madness. Two other Alpha seize their chance and grapple Javert and he throws them off with a roar, lifts the man slumped at his feet and flings him into the crowd.



Now he stands between the convicts and their prey. It is a bad position to be in. Javert’s blood pulses in his veins. By God, he feels alive. He paces, teeth bared, low rumbling growl vibrating through his barrel chest. He stands more than a head and shoulders above the crowd. He is trembling with the unmarred strength of youth. The scent of blood in the air only adds to the excitement. The logical part of Javert’s mind knows that this will only make the situation harder to calm but, seeing as the stronger Alpha’s have been subdued, the weaker stragglers are more easily beaten back by the guards. The Warden is looking at Javert over their heads, a look of uncertainty in his eye but he seems to be willing to take the chance for he shouts,



“Get him downstairs to solitary.”



Javert swings around to the Omega, teeth bared, and the Omega meets his gaze, his look ice. Javert’s lip relaxes. A coolness passes over him. He unlocks the chains around the Omega’s ankles, grunts and motions for the door. The Omega dips his head and leaves the cell.



 



How meekly he walks ahead, how well he knows the route to the solitary cells. Javert stalks after him, face red, veins in his neck and forehead bulging. His hands clench and unclench, his teeth grind in his jaw. He is in control; he is in control. God, the Omega is a beautiful thing. For all the corruption in its soul its body is a work of art. It’s true, Omega’s usually come in two types: slender and effete and thick and voluptuous. This Omega is the second. The veins in Javert’s eyes threaten to burst he stares so intensely at the man’s behind as he walks. He swallows heavily and brings his hand to fondle the heel of his baton, aware of his own vulnerability and the overwhelming nature of his own desires. When they reach the solitary cells the Omega stands at the open door,



“Enter,” Javert growls.



The Omega speaks, a rare occurrence, such a rare occurrence that Javert often forgets he is not mute,



“Yes, sir.”



The words strike Javert like a fist. He suppresses an animal noise and closes the door locking it. There is only thing he can do, only one way he can survive: he turns away and heads for the door to guard the room from outside.



“Wait,” the soft low voice calls. Javert shivers. He looks over his shoulder. The Omega is standing back in the corner of the cell, as though he fears Javert might reach through the bars and grab at him. Javert would never.



“Will it be you who brings my food?”



“I don’t know,” Javert growls,



“I would prefer-”



“You do not get to prefer,” Javert answers, strung out on animal need, “you will accept what you are given.”



 



He leaves the room, closes the door, locks it, puts the key in his pocket and then slumps down the wall. His head tips back and he pants open-mouthed, sucking in great gasps of pheromones. His cock is rock hard, his heart pounds in his chest, his hands shake. He wants nothing more than to open that door, enter that cell and enter that man. He wants to rip the clothes from that bronzed, supple body and squeeze it and feel it squeeze him back. To clench his hands on those thick muscular breasts, to wrap his long arms around that powerful torso and spread that firm behind. He presses his knees together and shudders like he is going through withdrawal. No doubt he will be abusing himself all night long.   



 



Is this how it is with all Omegas? He asks himself. How does society go on?



 



He hears footsteps and he pushes himself up the wall and takes out his baton. It is the Warden. He exhales. He tucks his baton away and salutes,



“Monsieur.”



“Well done, Javert,” the Warden says, clapping Javert on his shoulder in a way that is extremely uncomfortable considering Javert is rock hard and tenting his trousers.



“That was difficult,” the Warden continues, “and should never have happened. Did he go in his cell alright?”



“Yes,” Javert answers,



“No attempts to escape?”



“No,” Javert answers.



“That’s good.” 



The Warden opens the door and Javert grasps his forearm, breath shaky,



“Monsieur,” he says, “who will guard him?”



The Warden frowns,



“I will put the guard on rotation. It is no good to keep him with just one. We don’t want anyone thinking they’re developing a ‘special relationship’ with him.”



“Of course,” Javert answers. His stomach sinks. He steps back,



“Do you want me to remain at the door until everything calms down?”



The Warden looks him up and down, a brow raised,



“Are you capable?”



“Yes, Monsieur,” Javert growls, “I am a guard first; an Alpha second.”



“Then you would be the only one.”



The Old Bull sighs, a look of exhausted amusement (that Javert cannot understand) curls his lip. He shakes his head and enters the room, closing the door behind him. Javert presses his face to the little barred window, suddenly fearful that the Warden might use the opportunity to try and claim the Omega for himself. When the Warden stops at the bars to talk to 24601 Javert feels foolish and ashamed. He steps away, pressing his broad back to the cool wall in hopes of clearing his foggy mind.  



  



He wants the Omega. Nothing about the Omega’s behaviour suggests that he wants Javert. This is, of course, madness because Javert is by far the most eligible Alpha in Toulon, but no mind. That’s not the point. The point is that Javert is no rapist and never will be. For many Alpha there is no difference between submission and forced submission, but Javert had spent the years before he hit puberty in an Omega prison with his mother and he is well aware of the difference. His ears long ago learned the agonised screams of abused Omega’s forced to submit by the Alpha guards who ‘only upheld biology’. They were no better than animals. No better than the convicts they guarded. Yes, as Javert grew older and he came to understand why the Omega’s were in jail he felt less sorry for them. There were only ever two crimes Omega’s ever committed: poisoning or infanticide. Almost every Omega in that prison had been a child-killer. Still, it was not the guards’ job to punish them, it was their job to keep those outside the prison walls safe and those within them useful to society as a whole.



 



For all his time at Toulon Javert had never wondered what 24601’s crime had been, nor had he wondered why he was in an Alpha and Beta prison- something almost unheard of. These topics were not necessities to him. He wondered about them now. He thought that if 24601 were a baby-killer it might quench his desire for him forever. He thought he should find out. He would be better free of this affliction. 



None of these musings stopped him from viciously abusing himself in bed after he was replaced as guard. He had hated the idea of anyone else guarding 24601 but knew if he gave into his animal instincts, he would lose any opportunity he had for a better future. He could not be like those slathering animals he worked to keep caged. In the safety and privacy of his bed he could give a little to his animal needs. God, even giving a little was torture. He bit down on his fist to muffle his strangled noises as he pumped himself mercilessly. He had already spent but the heat in his gut hadn’t lessened and the image of the Omega’s thick, firm behind was still at the forefront of his mind. If that seductive monster offered himself to Javert could he resist? Would he be strong enough? He would need to be. He hoped that giving in now would not doom him later. The sound of a bell ringing forced him to increase his pace and he growled and then quickly mopped himself up before pulling up his trousers. 



The bell was a call for a meeting. The guards were all gathered outside the Warden’s office by the time Javert arrived. 



“Good,” the Warden said, “you’re all here. I’ll be quick, take these.”



He handed out little paper parcels,



“Now, I know they’re not legal but-”



Javert started, “I can’t.”



He immediately grew uncomfortable as all eyes turned to him. The Warden frowned,



“It’s take these or you’re off work for the week and finding somewhere to stay in town.”



Javert dropped his eyes. He opened the parcel; inside were fourteen little greenish tablets. 



“They’re herbal medicine,” the Warden said, addressing them all, “pharmacist said they’ll stop you from entering rut. Well, not stop it but suppress it. Take two a day, one now and one in the evening.”



Dutifully they all took one, even Javert.



“They won’t feel great but it’s this or a week without pay.”



Javert grimaces.



 



There was no worse part of the day than lunch. It meant actually sitting and making some overture of camaraderie with his fellow guards. 



“Ho, Javert,” Derosiers calls, waving Javert as if to sit with him. Javert held himself back from curling his lip,



“No, come on, Javert,” Derosier’s said, chiding him, his smile mocking, “we want to talk to you about how you feel about the medicine.”



Javert frowns,



“The same as any of you,” he grumbles,



“Oh?” Derosier said, “You? The Alpha of all Alpha?”



Javert did curl his lip at this as the other guards chuckled, 



“Surely an Alpha like you would need a higher dose?” he continued, casting a glance, around at his peers. 



“I can see why you would be confused,” Javert growls, “seeing as you were castrated long ago you no doubt have a much milder medicine.”



Derosier leapt up in an instant snarling and the room spiked with tension. Javert bared his teeth, a low rumble in his chest.



“You’re too big for your boots,” Derosier said, jabbing a finger, “ever since you came here you’ve been lording it over the rest of us-”



“Only because you make it possible,” Javert growls, “you’re weak-willed and small-minded.”



Derosier’s snarl grew feral, his hands shook. He was red-faced and Javert smirked, knowing what Derosier did not know: that the man would not be brave enough to attack. Javert placed his plate of what was practically slop on the table, smiled, sat down and began to spoon it into his mouth.



“Come on now,” Rousseau said, looking between them nervously, “let’s just eat and get to work.”



“Of course you want to eat you fat little pervert!” Derosier snarled, almost spitting. Rousseau dropped his eyes.



He is indeed a fat little pervert, Javert can agree with that at least.



Wisely, Rousseau dipped his eyes to his plate and focussed on his food. Derosier was clearly annoyed that the smaller man hadn’t given him the excuse he wanted to take out his anger. He cast a vitriolic look at Javert and then dashed his plate to the floor and stormed out. Javert cast a glance at the mess on the floor and then to Rousseau who was desperately hoping to go unnoticed. Javert motioned to it with his head and said,



“Clean that up, Rousseau. You have some making up to do for your mistake.”



Rousseau climbed out of his seat miserably and began cleaning up. The tension seeped out of the room replaced with a heavy blanket of mute shame and impotency. Javert sat in the middle of it a heavy, unaffected presence. When he was done eating, he put his plate away and went back to work watching the chain gangs.



 



The sun is hot and he turns his face up the sky briefly to let it cleanse the mess of the other men. He breathes in deeply, inhaling the scents around him to familiarise himself with the mood the prisoners are in. The Beta guards had been left alone with them and as usual that means there has been some extra aggression. When Javert is in charge the guards will be split fifty-fifty at all times, half Beta and half Alpha to each group. That will alleviate such problems. 



He watches for a little while until a strange feeling comes over him. His eyes search the chain gang but he finds nothing to cause him such a strange and creeping sense of dread. He glances over at the guard closest to him and says,



“I need to check something quickly. Cover my watch.”



The guard frowns but nods.



 



Javert’s feet take him where his instinct leads. He descends into the dark, cool bowels of the prison. The smell of the Omega strengthens with each stairwell but the tablets have left him feeling flat and dull and so, although he feels the effects, it is as if any sensation is far away. He reaches the Omega’s door and finds it unguarded. This bothers him. He realises with a sudden sense of anger that it was supposed to be Derosier on Omega-watch. He puts his face to the little barred window, snarling before he even sees the sight in the room beyond. He sees what he expected to see and yanks the door open. Lucky that Derosier wasn’t smart enough to lock is behind him. Derosier flicks his eyes to Javert quickly before he goes back to pressing his face into 24601’s neck. 24601 is appropriately blank-faced and clearly disgusted by the guard’s attempts to impress romance on him. Javert barely registers the way Derosier’s hands are stroking over the prisoner’s broad shoulders and squeezing his powerful biceps before his own claws are bunched in the back of Derosier’s shirt and he’s flinging him across the other side of the cell. Derosier bares his teeth, mouth wide and he leaps at Javert. Javert brings up his hand to strike him across the face with the back of his palm. Derosier shrinks in submission but it is too late and Javert leaps upon him, leans down and bites his face. Derosier yowls like a terrified cat, his hands scrabbling at Javert’s shoulders and the larger man- so much larger- with a mouth big enough to span the width of his face, gouges him with his four almost tusk-like jutting fangs. 



When Javert releases him, Derosier clutches at his face and staggers out of the cell, curling on the floor and whimpering. He will spend the rest of his life scarred. Blood drips down Javert’s chin. His hands clench. He turns and meets 24601’s eyes. He draws up his arm and wipes his mouth on the back of his sleeve. They do not break their gaze, even to watch Derosier crawl across the room and pry the door open with a creak in order to drag himself out into the corridor. Some part of Javert says: he will see my power and want me; some part of Javert says: look in his eyes, you are as much an animal to him as he is to you. 



When 24601 speaks it is so quiet that Javert could easily believe he’d imagined it. It seems, after all, to come from far away, puncturing the bubble of his ill-earned possessive madness,



“Now you have beaten him, is it your turn to try at me?”



Javert swallows heavily,



“No,” he croaks. His throat feels strangely dry. He scrubs at his mouth suddenly ashamed of his own brutality, and steps out of the cell locking it behind him,



“I am not that sort of man.”



 24601 only watches him, face closed, having not moved from his position in the corner. Javert stares at him through the bars, breathing his smell hungrily. He shudders. He says,



“I will speak with the Warden and arrange to bring your meals myself.”



24601 nods his head. Javert leaves the room. He kicks Derosier out of the way as he locks the door and pockets the key and then goes to report his attack to the Warden.



That is when Javert knows things have gone too far. He has made the mistake of creating a false relationship with the Omega. He has been the one who is weak-willed and easily influenced. He takes the tablets like he is told and watches with a cold indifference as Derosier is sent away, and then again, later, when he is made the new Warden. He, of course, says a polite goodbye but does not attend the farewell drinks.   



Time passes and he tells himself this one simple truth: he is the only Omega you have ever met. One day you will leave this place and meet many more. He will be put into perspective and any passion you have felt for him will become nothing but a curious abnormality in your history. You will forget all about Jean Valjean.



 



Jean Valjean is not a baby-killer. He is a thief. He is in Toulon because he escaped an Omega-only prison three times and was deemed too dangerous. He has never injured a guard. Javert wants him but could never love him. His love is reserved for better people. One day he will meet the Omega that turns his whole world on its axis. One day he will meet the Omega that will shift his footing and he will fall into them and they will become one. One day he will find someone worthy of his utter devotion and obsession.



 



The last big shift in Javert’s time at Toulon comes the day that 24601 leaves. Javert hands him his yellow papers and can barely bring himself to meet those cold, contempt-filled eyes. He does. He watches the man’s broad back shrink and shrink as it disappears down the dirt path. He feels sick. Everything in him screams to run after him; like the overwhelming instinct of the hunting dog to pursue its prey. He denies this instinct. He turns his back and goes up to his office, sits down at his desk and pulls out a thick wad of letters. He unties the string, lays the top one out and reads it. It is from Chabouillet, an official in the Paris police who will be his patron. Javert too will leave this place. He will move to the bigger pond where he will be a bigger and better version of himself. As he reads, he knows his uniform is being made to match his unusual proportions. It will be the first item of clothing he will ever own that will actually fit him. He will go to Paris and he will meet Omega’s and he will court like all young Studs are made to and he will find that special someone and his life will go just as everyone else’s does. He will become Javert and Javert only, not Javert-that-creature-born-in-a-prison. He will not be the naive and immature boy he is now. He will be a man. Paris will make him a man. His hands shake as he folds the letters away and he clenches them into fists. He will not think of 24601 again.


“Now you have beaten him, is it your turn to try at me?”

Javert swallowed heavily. His hands flexed. His breath was short.

“You should,” Jean Valjean said, his voice so low and soft.

Javert trembled. 

He managed, with great strength, to step forward. The cell seemed to shrink and grow in equal measure, too easy to cross, too easy to give in to temptation; too hard to span, the bared, tan flesh exposed and waiting to gripped but impossible to reach. Still, Valjean waited for him patiently. Powerful body nude, all rolling expanse of muscle, the breadth of shoulder, the narrow waist, the swell of his firm behind, on his hands and knees, legs spread in anticipation. Javert found himself equally nude, purpled hard cock nestled between those powerful cheeks. He trembled all over, he choked. He reached out his hands and stroked the hot, firm flesh of Valjean’s behind, over the curves of his hips, the arch of his back. His hand shook as he took his cock in it and guided the head to the soft waiting entrance. He pushed inside-

Javert woke to a strange sound and realised with embarrassment that it had been his own loud moan. He lifted his thin sheet and frowned at the mess he’d left over his stomach and his still softening cock, limp on his hip. He grunted. He swung his legs out of the bed and washed his face in a cold bowl of water on the dresser, scrubbing hard to clear his mind. Those eyes, those dark resentful eyes. He was almost proud that he had lasted long enough to press inside this time. Most nights he woke before he came close. There was some power in that man. Some power in that dream. In those eyes that looked at him with contempt and summoned him all the same. He grunted again and mopped himself down below with the freezing water. He needed to concentrate, he had only an hour to prepare for his journey and although he had already packed almost all of his belongings (what few he had) and sold the rest he still had a few small responsibilities to fulfil. He pulled on his long socks and trousers and drew out the chair at his desk. He lit the candle and sat hunched over the paper, pen, and inkwell. He had a monstrous task ahead of him: an apology. It was not in his nature to apologise. He began,

 

Dear Elise,

 

That was too informal. He had hurt her terribly last time he had seen her and no doubt that level of informality would be taken as salt in the wound. He began again,

 

 Dear Elise D'Aboville,

 

This was too formal. He scratched it out also and then scrunched up and discarded the ruined paper. He breathed in heavily and exhaled slowly. 

 

Dear Mademoiselle,

 

This too was bad. Fundamentally, he thought, anything he wrote would be bad. He had destroyed anything between them and nothing he could write would improve things. Worst of all, he did not truly, in a heartfelt fashion, want to improve things. After six months of courting her, he did not want to mate her. That was wrong on his part, but it had not been intentional he could excuse himself with that. How badly he had humiliated her. He could not have known. Truthfully, when she had written him to tell him she was in heat and she waited for him, he had been excited. Of course he had been excited, what young Alpha did not wait for the day he would finally get to stick it in? Every Alpha he had ever met had emphasised to him the pleasure and the meaning it gave to a life. How many hours had he spent listening to the guards talk at length on the different ways an Alpha might give it to his Omega, or really any willing Beta. All the things a supple and willing body could do. Of course, he’d wanted it when she’d written to him. Then he had gone to her, mounted the stairs, opened the door and found her there: laid out in her long bed-dresses, body slender and ivory pale, look appeasing and hopeful. She had looked at him with such a look that said, “mount me, take me, possess me, master and dominate me.” He had been unable to get it hard. He had stared at her and stared at her and had been completely unable to get it up. Then he had turned and left. Her wails of heartbreak had followed him down the stairs and he had closed the front door filled with shame. How could he address this in a letter? How could he make this ultimate rejection right?

It is not a failing in you, it is a failing in me.

He continued,

In the moment you offered yourself to me I realised I was incapable of fulfilling your desires. I am not the Alpha you require or deserve. I have always felt myself undeserving of your courtship. You are of a good family, good blood, good name, and I am a man without any name. It would not be right for me to breed into your family. I understand that this reasoning could not touch on your heart for your heart is too pure in its passions for such a hard rationalization. That is why I must be the one to make it. I am older than you, poorer than you, of lower class than you, more poorly educated, all around we are a bad match and my inability to satisfy you is only further proof. I ask that you forget about me and find another who is better suited to you and your station. I wish you well in the future. Please do not attempt to contact me; I am leaving Paris for work.

 

Kind Regards,

Javert.

 

He heaved a great sigh and he placed the pen back in its holder, re-read the letter as it dried and then folded it and put it in its envelope, added the address, dressed and left to deliver it. 

He had not mentioned that he only dreamt of a convict. He had not mentioned that when he looked at her there in all her frilly whites with her slender arms and smooth legs, he had thought only of that bronzed powerful body, thick with muscle. She had not compared favourably. He hated himself for it. He had thought that coming to Paris would cure this sickness of the mind but it had not. He had done just as he had intended: entered the courting pool, attended all the events, puffed and prowled and passed flirtatious remarks with all number of Omega’s and yet none of them, none of them had raised in him the passion and desire that that animal had. Even scenting her on heat, even standing in that room absorbing his senses in her had done nothing to raise the passion in him. Was he right when he said it was a fault in him? Would he find no other and spend his life languishing? Or would he eventually decide to settle? Find himself someone wealthy and from a good family to mate and live without passion and desire? 

He sighed. He looked about his empty room, flexed his hand on the handle of his suitcase, turned and left. 

The weather felt very fitting for Javert’s mood. The rain beat on the window of the carriage and his breath clouded the glass as he puffed out of his nose. The rest of the travelers chatted and complained and squalled and made every number of annoying noises simply to aggravate him. He wanted peace and quiet, he wanted not to be leaving Paris. M-sur-M was a punishment, of that he was sure. There was no reason that he, a hardworking and energetic young man should be taken out of Paris, where he was eminently suited, to be moved to some quiet nowhere no-opportunity town. He was angry and frustrated and most of all baffled. Chabouillet had said… what had Chabouillet said? That he needed to be more mindful of his tone and conduct when meeting with his superiors. There could only be one reason for that scolding and that was the police ball he had attended where Chabouillet had introduced him to all those retired Old Bull’s. Of course they would be threatened by him: he was young, fit, strong, and in the prime of his life and soon-to-be in his career. He, for his part, had been nothing but respectful and demure and he felt that for Chabouillet to have taken him into his office and scolded him like a child and then to have sent him to time-out in M-sur-M was an outrage and a complete waste of police resources. Still, he would prove his worth. He would rise above the insult by performing admirably and with as much strictness and severeness as he had in Paris.     

At some point he dozed and, at some point, the rain stopped, and he folded himself out of the carriage and stood on the stone street of M-sur-M looking into the little town. It was small and quiet but he would make it his.

His second duty, his first being to put his officers in their place, was the make the rounds meeting the big-wigs of the town. Hob-knobbing was Javert’s least favourite part of the job but was a responsibility he knew he must grow used to if he were to move up the ranks- which he hoped to do. There was little more important in modern Alpha society than appeasement of egos.

Having met and tolerated all of the Old Bull’s of the town he came at last to his final stop: a small factory that made beads. This place he had left for last for he had heard that Monsieur Madeleine, the Alpha owner of the factory, was very quiet and retiring and he hoped this would mean that their conversation could be brief and he might finish his night quickly. 

The moment he stepped into the factory he realised something was wrong. It seemed as if the floor moved beneath his feet. Every sense caught alight and he turned his nose up to the air and sniffed. Of course, it was not a surprise to smell Omega’s, they could take jobs like anyone else but this smell… he trembled. He found to his dismay he was growing hard. He was grateful for his long coat. He let his feet take him towards the stairs that led up to the office above while his mind whirled, trying to place the scent. He paused briefly on the steps to look out over the factory floor, mouth watering, and he found the worker women watching him, turning their faces away and snickering as he met their communal gaze. They must know something he did not. He paused. He turned his face to the door above and huffed in heavily through his mouth. Without doubt that was the smell of an Omega. Could the factory owner be…? It was unheard of. Omega were far too passive, far to retiring to compete in the heavy, aggressive world of Alpha finance. But then they had said, hadn’t they? They had said he was quiet and retiring. 

Sweat beaded on Javert’s forehead and he realised his hand was shaking. He ascended the stairs. But that simply did not explain the extremity of his reaction to the scent, there must be something more. He reached out his hand for the doorknob and clasped it and in an instant, it hit him. His cock throbbed painfully; his chest tightened. It could not be. It could not be! He had promised himself, sworn to himself he would not see that man again! Would no longer live under his torment. That man who had fled police custody, that recidivist who had shown his true colour when he had reoffended and then disappeared- but to appear here as a new man, a wealthy, powerful man? That seemed impossible. He threw open the door, stepped in and slammed it closed behind him, shivering in the middle of the room. The man bowed over the desk did not look up, even at the noise he made. He continued to write, grip firm on the pen. The breadth of his shoulders, the thickness of his hands, the jutting aquiline nose, the heavy brow, the square jaw… he had grown his hair, cultivated a moustache, and covered the powerful musculature of his body with good quality cloth but he could not hide his scent from Javert. Javert knew him in an instant. He said nothing. He could not speak. 

Eventually, Jean Valjean looked up. There in his eyes was that cool look of disapproval. There were his full pink lips pressed together in contempt. He rose and said,

“You must be the new Inspector,” he held out his hand to be shaken. 

He held out his hand to be shaken! He a recidivist held out his hand to the new Inspector of the town! Javert could have laughed if he could have made a sound. He puffed out his breath through his nose. He shook all over.

“I have been rude making you wait,” Valjean continued, “let me introduce myself: I am Monsieur Madeleine.”

“- liar!” Javert hissed, “Liar! I know you! I know your scent!”

He stepped forward, marched to that desk, pressed himself against the edge of it as if to push himself through it,

“I know you,” he snarled, “24601!”

That man’s face did not shift, there was no look of guilt that flashed across his face. He leant forward, placing his outstretched hand on his desk firmly and said only,

“Prove it.”

Javert almost collapsed, if he hadn’t been supported by the desk he might have folded completely. His head was spinning, he could barely breath through his gritted teeth.

What could he say to that but,

“I will!”

“It has been a pleasure to meet you, Inspector,” Valjean said, not having even enough shame to lower his eyes from Javert’s accusing gaze, “but I am afraid I am very busy. I must ask you to leave.”

“Must ask me-” Javert spluttered, but he was not allowed to finish,

“I smell you are very attracted to me,” the Omega continued and Javert began to choke, “and I am very flattered, but you are not the first Alpha and will not be the last. I am not interested. Feel free to see yourself out.” 

He sat down at his desk and went back to writing.

Javert reeled back as if he had been struck. He felt as though he might vomit. He fled that room and then the laughter of the factory girls. They must have thought him a fool, the same no doubt as any other Alpha who found themselves trapped under Jean Valjean’s spell. 

Javert stumbled out into the street, breathing deeply the cool evening air. He touched his hand to his face and found it burning hot. He unbuttoned his coat and found he had spilled in his trousers. He was enraged. He was humiliated. How could this be? How could this creature, having shown himself to be nothing more than a petty thief, now be a respected businessman? He thought immediately that he must report this to Chabouillet. He thought immediately: How could I? On what proof? On what material evidence? Here is my evidence, he thought bitterly, I have spilled in my trousers just at his scent! He felt ashamed of himself. Was he really so weak? Even after all these years? He had thought Paris had made a man of him and here he was no better than a teenage boy. He felt sick with himself. He took himself to his new rooms.

There he locked himself away and abused himself terribly and then sat on the edge of his bed, hunched over his softening cock feeling angry and ashamed. What a foolish thing to have done, what a weak-willed thing to have done. It was a mistake he would not make again. He said this aloud and knew the moment he said it it was a lie. What good would it do to resist satisfying his own desire? Surely it would only give that monster further power over him, surely denial would only strengthen his desire? Yes, that sounded right. It would be better if he abused himself as frequently and aggressively as possible in order to drain himself of testosterone so he might be in a better state of mind to resist. Clear-headed. Calm. That made sense. It seemed a logical course of action. In the meantime, he would expose himself to Jean Valjean at every opportunity and through doing so both build his immunity and gather evidence of the man’s no doubt nefarious schemes. Javert felt very smug. He thought, in that primeval way he did where no actual ideas formed in his mind but he felt everything in his body, that if exposed enough to his scent and presence perhaps he might even turn the Omega to him. Then, if he were not willing to expose himself in his identity, Javert might expose his body. That thought appealed to him immensely and he grasped his shrinking cock and aggravated it against its will. Better to get himself used to it now. There would be plenty of this kind of pain ahead of him. 

Javert was infuriated, tormented, not merely by the very presence of Jean Valjean but by the sheer gall of the man! What a vile creature to walk amongst the innocent people of M-sur-M as if he were not the wolf creeping amongst the lambs, as if they were not each his potential victim, smiling and giving out gifts, accepting their love and praise. The arrogance of the man! How terrible the lie was, how dreadful that Javert- who was an upstanding and lawful citizen- was looked at with distrust by the mindless denizens of that sleepy town when that grotesque deceiver was uplifted by them as some kind of saviour. Of course, Javert could understand them on some base level: how could they not be entranced by him? How could they not turn their heads to watch him as he passed? How could they not be tugged along in his wake wherever he went? He was like some great celestial body that bent the very gravity of earth around him and they were all useless little marbles falling in. Even Javert, as much as he resisted and as strongly as he told himself he could rise above, turned his head and sniffed the air at the slightest smell of him. Even Javert found himself forgetting what it was he searched for when he stalked that man. What was it he wanted to see? He wanted to see everything. Why did he want to see it? That was the question he too often forgot the answer to.

Worst of all was that it was not only Jean Valjean that manipulated him to distraction. It was not only that implacable apathy that drove Javert to madness; the polite nod of the head and no more. How could he act as if every moment in Javert’s presence did not put him on the edge of ruin? How could he not react to the powerful smell of Javert’s Alpha masculinity? How could he not turn his head to seek out its source? He acted as if he did not smell Javert at all, and sometimes as if he did not even see him. But no, this was not it, he was distracted again. What was most infuriating was that every day it was not Javert courting him, there existed the potentiality that it might be someone else! Oh, there were so many more than suitable suitors here! How many modestly rich Alpha there were in M-sur-M and how many more wealthy and successful Alpha would be drawn by the presence of a successful Omega businessman! A unique prospect and an incomparable prize. Javert felt sick and lightheaded. He vomited even when he heard that Valjean had received love letters and gifts at his factory- a too common occurrence. Javert beat his fists and feet on the walls and floor and pulled his hair and gnashed his teeth. It was wrong! It was all wrong! Ethically, culturally, sexually! It was all wrong! 

 

The world of M-sur-M was upside down. 

 

Javert was almost glad when Old Bull Fauchelevent was trapped under his cart. Well, ok, he was glad. Old Bull Fauchelevent should have learned long ago to stop chasing Omega’s but he clearly hadn’t since he was always outrageously flirting with ‘Madeleine’. Of course, that good good sweet (yuck) man pretended he couldn’t tell that Fauchelevent’s animosity was flirting but it was obvious to an Alpha like Javert. If Javert could have dropped a cart on Fauchelevent long ago he would have, and would have done the same to every other arrogant son-of-a-bitch who sought to court Valjean. Of course, that was simply because it was his duty to protect them from tying themselves irrevocably to a criminal and, sometimes, in the pursuit of duty one had to be brutal.

There was a great clamour of fear and distress as the cart sunk into the mud,

“Call for a jack!” Javert shouted, discarding his own long coat and jacket and rolling up his sleeves. Apart from Madeleine, he was the largest gentleman in town and, seeing as he had no doubt that the criminal would excuse himself from the situation to avoid outing his identity, he knew it rested on his shoulders to attempt to alleviate Fauchelevent’s suffering. He considered for a moment leaning on the cart and putting the Old Bull out of his misery altogether but that was not Javert. He hefted his broad shoulder against the wood and attempted to gain traction to no avail. The mud was too slick.

“Where is that jack?” He barked, face screwed up and red with effort. He was told it could not be brought in time. He redoubled his efforts.

“You cannot lift it that way,” a fearful and breathless voice said behind him and he grunted, and then he was being nudged at his hip and he drew back a little, turning to lift with his other shoulder. To his shock and disbelief, he found himself looking down on Jean Valjean, also down to his waistcoat, ducking in the mud to crawl under the cart.

“Get out of there!” Javert cried, grabbing him by the shoulder. He was shaken off easily,

“It is the only way. You will not get your footing; he will die.”

Javert spluttered.

 

Who was he to question Jean the Jack? 

 

As that powerful body compressed itself beneath the cart Javert came to his senses. He found himself imbued with greater strength and squatted also, attempting to lodge his shoulder against the cart once more. They grunted and heaved together and slowly the cart began to tremble.

“Unload it!” Javert barked and fearful, weak men approached and began to unload the overburdened vehicle. It was raised and once again Javert called for action and the Old Bull was dragged through the mud to safety.

He held the cart as Valjean crawled out from beneath and they stood trembling, looking at one another. The air was heavy with their mixed smell. Javert wondered if this would be what it smelt like in their shared room, if they would stand before each other red-faced and vulnerable as they stood now. Valjean accepted a handkerchief from a gentleman, who began slapping him heartily on his dirty shoulder, and wiped his face with it. The moment was ruined. The intruder turned to pat Javert’s shoulder and then he grew wise at the sight of Javert’s bared teeth and he moved away. 

The crowd gathered round to congratulate and Javert barged his way through them angrily. He could not bring himself to celebrate what he had just done. He had allied himself with a criminal. He had put aside his morals for the sake of one life. That was not the duty of the Law; the duty of the Law was to uphold the rules for the betterment of society as a whole at, sometimes, the necessary sacrifice of life. Most of all, however, he was angry because in that moment he had not looked at Jean Valjean as a criminal and intruder but as something tender and human and that disturbed his delicate equilibrium. 

He knew logically that he should pursue Valjean now and attempt to work on the shock of the situation to pry a confession from him but he felt too raw, too vulnerable in himself. He was shaken. He made his way to a quiet street and almost escaped when a hand touched his shoulder. He turned angrily, wanting to throw the limb off and found himself looking down into the reddened and dirty face of his lifelong tormentor.

“What do you want?” Javert breathed. 

Jean Valjean looked at him with a strange expression; one as vulnerable as Javert felt,

“I wanted to say thank you.”

“For what?” Javert said, scowling, 

“For saving Fauchelevent’s life.”

Javert stared at him,

“What do you care?” he said,

“What do I care?” Valjean said, almost breathlessly laughing,

“Are you courting him?”

“No!”

“Would you want him to court you?”

“God, help me,” Jean Valjean said, “is that all you Alpha think of?”

“Would you court me?” Javert said breathlessly. Jean Valjean laughed again,

“I think you struck yourself on the head with the cart.”

“You play with me,” Javert whispered, “is there anyone else?”

Valjean frowned,

“You’re tired or in shock. Go home and clean up.”

“I know what I’m saying-”

“You have accused me of being a criminal!”

Javert faltered here. He frowned; he pouted. He opened his mouth to speak and could say nothing. He wanted to say something desperately but what was there to say?

Valjean said,

“Go home, rest. You are mad. I am one man, not two: there is no Jean Valjean criminal and Madeleine factory owner. Do not speak to me in a way you will regret."

Javert frowned but bowed his head in agreement. Madeleine pressed his hand to Javert's shoulder once more and then turned and left him, seeming disappointed. Javert returned home.

 

He did not address his outburst again with Madeleine or Jean Valjean or whoever he was. He was a coward. Instead, he turned over this two body problem in his mind, wrestling against something which to him was unconquerable. He needed to find a way to make the two men one: the man who he knew by his senses to be Jean Valjean recidivist and the man who every day the people of M-Sur-M sought to make him believe was M. Madeleine factory owner and charitable hero. Javert whined and held his head. He tossed and turned when he slept. It would be easy to commit himself wholly to his own knowledge and disregard the thoughts of all others if it were not for one thing: he desired desperately for there to be two men. If there were two men he felt equal passion for, this resolved his inner conflict. He could hate Jean Valjean and desire Madeleine and be justified in both. Life had never been easy on him; he wanted life to be easy on him now. He wanted to disbelieve himself and to believe everyone else. He wanted to be manipulated into doubting his very senses. At the same time, this terrified him. He wished that Jean Valjean would confess to relieve this immense psychological burden. It all made him very ill.

 

Then came the pleas for Madeleine to take up the Mayoralty and the outrage of this clarified some things for Javert at least briefly. He was grateful. 

 

He waited, at least, until the workers had all left before he mounted the stairs to the factory office. This time he knocked, although it was unnecessary; his scent had proceeded him, warning his enemy of his approach. 

“Enter,” Jean Valjean called. 

Javert entered, closing the door softly behind him. Valjean continued to work on his papers, not looking up from his desk, insulting Javert with his apathy. 

“You know why I am here,” Javert said, voice low and serious,

“I do not, Inspector. I am afraid you will have to tell me.”

“You have been asked to take up the Mayoralty.”

“Yes. it is not the first time. It is not a mantle I wish to assume responsibility of. There are others who are far more experienced…”

His pen continued to scratch incessantly over the paper. There was a pause as he read over what he had written, neatly move the paper aside and continued making notes on the fresh sheet.

“You will not accept,” Javert said.

Valjean paused,

“I have not decided.”

“You will not accept.”

“I am awaiting a letter.”

“You will not accept.”

The man exhaled heavily through his nostrils but still refused to look up,

“I did not know you were so invested in local politics,” he said, sounding vaguely irritated as if he could not quite fully bother to commit to the emotion.

“You know why you should not accept,” Javert said, restraining himself.

“Humour me: explain.”

Javert bared his teeth,

“You will make me say it again?”

“Say what?”

“To aggravate me?”

“I don’t understand your meaning.”

“You know perfectly well- Jean Valjean!”

The man sighed again. He placed down his pen and seemed as though he might answer but instead, he set himself to reading. Javert shook with rage.

“Look at me!” he barked.

“You are being very rude,” Madeleine said mildly.

“You are infuriating me!”

“I am completely baffled by what you want.”

“For you to refuse the Mayorship on the fact that you are the recidivist and criminal Jean Valjean.”

The man sighed again,

“I have never heard of him.”

Javert shook his fists in the air and then forced them back to his side. He set his eyes on his shoes and inhaled and exhaled deeply and raggedly.

“You know I know you,” he said, voice low and gravelly, “do you think you can delude my very senses? Or is it that you seek to delude God himself?”

There was tension in Madeleine- no Jean Valjean’s shoulders then and Javert grinned spitefully. Valjean said,

“No man may delude God, only himself. I believe you know very well about self-delusion. You asked me only the other week if you may court me-”

Javert paled and flushed at once, expression stricken,

“And now you come to my office to accuse me- for a second time- of being a criminal. I am bemused by you.”

“You should be afraid. I am the spectre of your guilt.”

“I am not afraid of you. In truth,” he said, mild and sad, “I think you are harmless and quite pathetic.”

Javert choked.

“I don’t understand you,” Madeleine said, still not bothering to look up from his papers, “but I think you do not understand yourself. You treat me as if I am two men: one moment you tell me that I am a criminal and deserve none of the admiration I receive, the next that you desire me and seek to court me. In both instances I do not court the emotion offered and would give it away in an instant.”

“It is true, a criminal would not deserve to be courted by me-” Javert began, defensively,

“But a successful businessman is not so above Inspector Javert,” Valjean said, lips quirked in a mocking smirk,

“The opposite,” Javert replied, “but a man should seek to apply himself above his status. That is something you should understand, Monsieur.”

“As the criminal or prospective Mayor?”

“Both. Do you concede you are the former?”

“No,” Valjean chuckled,

“If you did I would no longer court you.”

“Very true.”

“So, you will concede you are he? Jean Valjean.”

“No, I will not.”

“So you will concede I may court you?”

“No on that front also. I am afraid it is not a game where we might have a limited hand of Yes’ and No’s.”

Javert frowned,

“I am willing to humour you,” Madeleine said, “if simply to let you bring this to an end so you might ease your mind. I suppose if I refuse you you might be able to focus yourself on the criminal only'"

“So-”

“No, I do not concede it. Do not bother me with that nonsense any further, if you intend to repeat yourself I will wave you away for I am busy.”

“Fine then,” Javert said. He pressed his shoulders back, standing somehow more erect, as if preparing to make a report. Madeleine cut him off with a raised palm,

“One moment,” he said, “I should say quickly that I have heard it all before. If you intend to tell me how you are unique among Alpha’s, how God has gifted you a mighty largess below, or how you might bring me unknown pleasures, or that you should improve my bounty with your vast troves of inherited land and income, I should warn you that I have heard it and been unmoved. I find it very boring.”

“I cannot offer you money,” Javert said, “for I am very poor and have low expectations of future income.”

Madeleine looked up at him at this, brow quirked and then he laughed, a genuine amused laugh,

“That is certainly a unique approach,” He rested his elbows on his desk, finally giving Javert his full attention. Javert continued,

“Yes, I am gifted below but as you said it is not uncommon. I can promise you that I am a virgin. I know that many an Alpha promise this but having been in their company all my life I can tell you: they lie. I am untouched completely. I do not partake in prostitutes or casual relations. This means that no doubt I will not give you unimaginable pleasure on first intercourse but I can promise this: I am very hard working, take instruction well, and have a passion for self-improvement.”

Madeleine chuckled again, not cruelly, 

“No, I have not heard that before. You would put aside your pride to be instructed by an Omega?”

“I do not have pride in that way. I would prefer you were innocent also so that we may share in our first time together but only for that reason. If you were better instructed, I would not hold it against you.”

The Omega rubbed his hand over his face, red in the cheeks,

“Well, I will say this: you have managed to surprise me.”

He sighed and rested back in his seat,

“But it is still a no.”

Javert started,

“Why?” he barked, “Because I am poor?”

“Because you are Javert.”

“What does that mean?”

“You know what that means.”

“I do not, it seems, for I feel to be Javert is to be something worthy of pride.”

Madeleine frowned,

“It is to be stubborn, pig-headed, merciless, to live with your ears closed and your eyes shut-”

Javert opened his mouth to interrupt and could not,

“-It means to be incapable of forgiveness or flexibility, to be suspicious always, to dig and root in business that is not yours nor wants to be yours. Can you give me one sincere reason why you should have me? What it is in me that draws you to me? I doubt you can. Do not say my body: it is what they all say. Do not say my money: for it means nothing to me. Do not say my power: before God my power is nothing. Tell me?”

Javert could not speak. He sweated. He felt as though he were some gross insect pricked through with a pin the size of a lance. Madeleine seemed to be growing increasingly angry, his mouth turned down in a grim look and his eyes hard. Javert saw instantly 24601 in his face. There was no grotesque transformation, only a subtle slide from one man to the other. Javert felt anger and confusion alight in his chest. He felt sick. He growled,

“Fate, and I am very bitter for it!”

 At this Jean Valjean threw back his beautiful, monstrous head and laughed,

“Yes! Perhaps! That truly would be wicked of God. I am very sorry for you.”

“I do not want your pity,” Javert snarled, fists clenched. 

“Well,” Madeleine said, smirking intolerably, “has this conversation satisfied you? Now you may be free to hound me as you wish for your case and I may be free of your harassment.”

“Do you concede you are Jean Valjean?”

“Never.”

“Then you will never be free of me.”

Jean Valjean puffed heavily through his nose, lips pursed,

“You would be better conceding to me,” Javert said, “you would be better letting me mate you. You would be mine then and be allowed in a low security Omega prison. We might even be both lucky and I would put a baby in you; you would get even more lenient treatment then.”

Valjean rose, slamming his meaty hands on the desk and making it rattle,

“Get out!” He snarled, “you would take me for a man who would bring a child into life in a prison?”

“It is not so bad,” Javert said, satisfied to have drawn the rage out of his enemy, “it has done me no harm.”

“No harm!" Valjean snarled and then he seemed to process Javert’s words and he frowned and then laughed and shook his head, “certainly it has done you tremendous harm and you do not see it. No wonder you would seek a love you might imprison. You cannot think of love existing anywhere but inside of a prison.” 

He continued,

 “You fell in love with-” he cut himself off quickly but Javert’s ears had pricked at the near mistake and his body was tense as a hunting dog that had scented a rabbit, “you fell in love with this Jean Valjean because he was in prison as were you. But he has left prison and you are still in it, so you seek to bring him back inside with you. That is the matter of it. You cannot bear the thought of leaving the prison yourself. A very sad thing indeed.”

Javert did not fully understand this but felt the insult in it and he shook with barely restrained rage,

“I will never leave you be,” he said, “I will make myself a thorn in your side, I will be the weight of the ball and chain at your ankle.”

“No doubt,” Jean Valjean sighed, “I imagine that is all you know how to do.”

After a moment the tired old man said,

“You are dismissed. I will take your thoughts on my Mayorship into consideration.”

Javert swallowed heavily. He wanted to cry out in indignation, he wanted to demand the man accept him, he wanted to rip open his trousers and demand he be looked upon in the hope of rousing some desire. At the same time, he was filled with hatred and bitterness that a criminal should be raised to the standard of a Mayor while he, a good and hardworking man, should be spat upon like a dog in the street. The thought that a criminal and recidivist might look down upon him repulsed him in every sense. He felt his honour violated. Still, if the man before him had crooked his finger to him and called him to heel he would have in an instant and done as commanded even filled to the brim with vitriol as he was. He turned on his heel and left.  

Javert came to the conclusion that if he were going to do as Jean Valjean asked and focus on him solely as a combatant that he must do as he did before. He found a chemist and purchased a hormone suppressant. Normally he would criticise this behaviour but Jean Valjean’s power was beyond that of a normal Omega and any potential side effects were worth chancing.

Jean Valjean received his letter and it was from the king imploring he take up the mantle of Mayor of M-sur-M. He agreed. Javert sweated and spat. He had heartburn and nausea, this was not a side effect of the new drug he had acquired. He knew it was a symptom of misjustice. He hated Jean Valjean and at the same time he wanted him still. He could not even medicate away his disease. He lay awake at night and wondered what the king had written. He wondered if the king asked Valjean to be his lover would he be refused? The thought of a criminal being raised to the position of king’s courtesan made him more ill and he was unable to eat. It seemed the world sought to surround Javert with enemies on all sides. 

He did not bother to confront Valjean on his true identity again. He knew that the man would only lie, would tell bare-faced after bare-faced lie. Besides that, the man’s new position as a magistrate offered him greater protection than he had ever had before. If he mated with a high-power, wealthy Alpha now he would be untouchable and any hope of justice wiped away in an instant. Javert justified his grief with this thought. In truth (although this was not a truth he himself was capable of acknowledging) he simply could not understand why Jean Valjean had turned him down. He held himself in high esteem and considered his offer to the man more than generous, bordering on obscene. He had offered even to put his own reputation at risk to protect him while he paid for his crimes. This seemed unjustly generous. He could not bear the burden of acknowledging that he had been refused. He had unconsciously decided to think of it as him coming to his senses and refusing to pursue Jean Valjean any further. Still, he ached every day for him. A dull bruising ache, only numbed by the medication and not erased. He grieved the loss of Jean Valjean as if he had heard news of the man's marriage. He hated himself for the depth of emotion a base criminal drew from him. He could not comprehend yet that what he felt was Love; that idea was too much for him. Besides that, what he felt was yet too amorphous, too under-developed to be love. To love is to know, and Javert did not know Jean Valjean. Still, some deep part of him wanted to know him, to know him truly and completely and this part drove Javert's twisted desire to see the man unmasked. If only he had understood this.

Then there was Fantine. This was too much. This was a wound too deep. If Javert had convinced himself to any degree that he could put aside his feelings in the name of seeing a criminal brought to justice, this delusion was shattered. To see that man he longed for, he obsessed over, touch this woman tenderly, this undeserving woman that cracked his wooden heart in two. That that hand could not turn its gentleness to him, a man who sought only to do right, but could lay itself upon a lawless whore… 

He sat alone in his office; hands lay out flat on his desk and stared at them. He seemed to seek in their fashioning his fatal flaw; the thing that made him unlovable to the object of his affection. He took out a sheet of paper and began to write a letter. This letter was to Chabouillet. This outlined the truth of Mayor Madeleine’s identity. He signed this letter and mailed it. Then he sat again at his desk with his head in his hands. 

Javert could not know it but his heart was broken. Valjean had been right, he had spied the thing in its entirety right at the start: Javert could only understand love in the framework of prison. He could only understand love as something that was desperate and fearful, possessive and defensive. It was a clawing hand that grabbed at what it needed and clutched so tightly it might crush it. That gnashed its teeth and foamed and slathered and snarled at any prospective threat. It clenched its love to itself until those two bodies mashed into one and became a prison within themselves, bound together to death, for better or for worse. But always this love was defined by terror; the terror of loss. This kind of love could never last, never bring joy; only paranoia and pain. 

Javert received the reply he expected: Mayor Madeleine could not be arrested on Javert’s nose. That, moreover, Mayor Madeleine could not be arrested because Jean Valjean had already been arrested. He had broken into an orchard and been caught still holding the branch from the apple tree. He was to be taken to trial in Arras the week of the letter’s arrival. Javert rested his brow in his hand; he knew this was wrong. Madeleine was Jean Valjean and in Arras in two days’ time an innocent man would be arrested and charged in that man’s name. This was not justice. He asked himself: what can I do? The only answer was a terrible one: he must deliver this information to Jean Valjean and hope that the man had some sense of guilt or moral rightness. He must deliver himself into that man’s hands and seek mercy for this Champmanthieu. This was a dreadful feeling. He had been avoiding Madeleine since the incident with Fantine, not because he felt any guilt for his treatment of the woman, but because he ached so terribly to be held in the cold stare of those unforgiving eyes that judged him so dreadfully for his righteous action.   

He took the letter and himself to Monsieur le Mayor’s office. He was not there. He went instead to the factory. This absence, which might have been taken by another man as a sign from God, was no hindrance to Javert and did not assuage him at all in his course of action.

He knocked politely, was called in and entered. There he stood as if before a noose, although it were he who tied the knot and awaited the victim to place their head within. When the Mayor raised his head, he greeted the sight of Javert with the exact level of disapproval  and contempt Javert had come to expect from him. 

“What do you wish to speak with me about, Javert?”

This translated to: why do you darken my door again?

Javert took out the letter from his coat pocket, unfolded it, approached the desk and placed it there, stepping away so that monsieur might retrieve it and read it in peace. Valjean did just that, heavy brow drawing down and down, lips thinning and paling until they appeared entirely bloodless. He seemed to pass through several rapid emotions, touched his hand to his face, and lowered his head over the letter as if to pray. All the while Javert waited in silence.

“You must be very satisfied by this,” Valjean said, voice low and grave, barely above a whisper.

“No, monsieur,” Javert replied. Valjean looked up at him with fierce eyes, he clearly did not believe him. Javert continued,

“I would not see an innocent man be given a life sentence in prison on your behalf.”

“I meant that you should see me caught in a trap. The hunter must feel immense pleasure at that fact.”

“There is no pleasure in me. I come here to ask for mercy on this man’s behalf.”

Valjean blinked, he paled ashen white, he burst into a brief hysterical laughter,

“You! You ask for mercy from me! For this man!”

Javert said nothing. Valjean’s face contorted as if he might weep but then it smoothed to an emotionless mask,

“You do not have to ask such a thing,” he said, sounding once again calm, no, sounding exhausted, “such a thing is given without needing request. Of course I will not let him suffer in my place.”

He sighed heavily, rose to stand and rested there against his desk for a moment, trembling. 

“I ask you only one thing, perhaps it is selfish of me… but… if you have ever held any sympathetic feeling towards me as you have confessed-”

Javert’s face twisted into a look of contempt but Valjean continued before he could interrupt,

“I ask that you let me arrange my affairs here. I will not run from my fate but there are lives dependent on me. I will do this for you in return: you might guard me every moment of the day and take me yourself to Arras to present me to the court. That way you might have your moment of absolute victory.”

Javert’s face had smoothed but the muscle in his jaw twitched. He seemed trapped in some moment of powerful indecision.

“Very well,” he croaked.

 

Valjean indeed attended to his affairs over the course of that day and worked long into the night at his desk writing letters to arrange things further. Javert, for his part, sat stretched out in an uncomfortable chair, eyes lidded but twinkling and sharp. They said nothing to each other and probed not in each other’s emotions. Javert showed none, Valjean showed many: swinging between moments of desperate grief and despair, and passive self-collection. Neither of them slept a wink. When the morning came Valjean had all of his letters delivered, then took himself to the Mayoral office, shadowed by Javert, where he informed his administrators of the facts. They were horrified. Things were sorted there none the less. Next he went to the hospital where he stood only in the doorway and looked with deep grief on the still figure of Fantine. He whispered something to the nun’s there and left. He went at last to his housekeeper who he spoke to at length and very quietly and gently. He went upstairs and gathered some belongings which he brought down in a leather bag. 

“Will you do one more thing for me, Inspector?” he said, voice low and rough. Javert did not answer and the tired man, who seemed to have aged ten years in a night, only sighed tremulously and dragged his hand over his eyes once more,

“When I am taken into prison will you take these belongings for me? I do not want them to be sold and I have no family who might keep them and care for them. They are simple things: a coin, some silver candlesticks, and my bible. Will you do that for me?”

Javert said,

“Yes.”

 

They rode together in the carriage in silence, each looking out of opposite windows. As they approached Arras Javert turned suddenly to Valjean and said with breathless urgency,

“I offer you once again- this will be the last time- but my offer from before, it still stands if you wish to accept it.”

Valjean smiled, although not kindly, and said,

“No, my body will be someone’s property, it seems that is God’s will, but I would have it be the state’s. I think the phrase is… the better the devil you know?” he scoffed a little then. 

The coach drew to a stop and they climbed out together. Valjean turned and offered his wrists and for a moment Javert stared at them before his hands remembered their duty and he put on the handcuffs.

Things went as expected then. At first, on sight of Mayor Madeleine in handcuffs, the court was in outrage but Valjean remained true to his word and identified himself. He was taken into custody formally and Javert’s good sense and hard work was lauded. All the while Javert was deaf and blind. He felt his eyes drawn only to Valjean and he clasped tightly at that man’s bicep as he was drawn away. There was something of the dog with his bone in Javert in that moment, and something of the war-widow. He had to be taken firmly by the shoulders himself and guided away. 

 

Chabouillet was written to and he came down to see Javert himself and congratulate him. Javert said,

“Monsieur, forgive me but I must resign myself from police service.”

Chabouillet stared at him,

“What are you talking about?” he said, “Javert, you have pulled off the most marvellous arrest and outed a fraud who himself deceived even the king. Of course, I understand you may fear reprisals for not having stopped that deception before it happened but as it was there was nothing-”

“No, monsieur. It is this: I wish to return to my service as a guard in Toulon.”

Chabouillet sat back at that,

“You are mad.”

Javert said nothing and could not look at him.

“I do not accept your resignation.”

Now Javert darted back, a look of horror opening his face and paling his skin,

“Monsieur-”

“No. I do not accept. Return to Paris and take up your old duties. M-sur-M is not suitable for a man of your reputation. I will see to it that you are replaced.”

“Monsieur- please!”

“I will not hear it,” Chabouillet snarled, hands clenching on his desk, “I will not see you humiliate me and damage my reputation! Return to your duties.”

Javert shook. His eyes bulged in his head. He stood paralysed in a look of abject horror. Then, very slowly he nodded, turned, and staggered out of that room. 

 

His feet took him to stand in the corridor and almost led him away to his rented room but his eye alighted on the brown leather bag Valjean had entrusted into his care and he took it up and carried it away with him, clutched to his chest.

He found himself alone in his room and now opened the bag at last. In it were the two silver candlesticks, these he placed on the desk opposite his bed, a simple coin, which he examined and returned, and finally a very plain worn bible. This last thing felt immensely heavy in his hands. He fell to sit on the edge of his bed and bent over the bible. There was no victory for Inspector Javert. Whatever game he had played, he had lost.  

 