Title: Annoyances
Work ID: 46510534
Author: Secretmellowblog
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Tragicomedy, Let Jean Valjean Rest, Javert Quits His Job, Valjean should not have to deal with Javert, but alas, Victor Hugo inspired writing style, Post Seine, Beta Read
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 2/?


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


 


 “That Javert, who has been annoying me so long; (...) that frightful hunting dog!” 


—Jean Valjean in  Les Misérables Volume 1 Book 7 Chapter 3, Hapgood translation

 


 “You annoy me. Kill me, rather.” 


— Javert to Jean Valjean, in Les Misérables Volume 5 Book 1 Chapter 19, Hapgood Translation

 

 

Jean Valjean dragged Javert out of the Seine and then crawled onto the quai, shivering like a wet cat. His eyes were bloodshot.  He was nearly weeping with fatigue. His fingernails dug into the pavement like claws.  

“I wish that I could die,” he sighed.

They were on a decrepit stone quai; the only thing docked there was a small wooden boat, rotted and full of holes, buffeted by the current. The grey wall of the quai loomed above them like the wall of a prison. A single ruddy oil lantern sputtered somewhere, and it seemed to only redden the area rather than light it. The outlines of the bridges and the city were lost in the mist. Not a single light burned in any of the houses above; no one could be heard passing; all of the streets and other quais which could be seen from their position were deserted; Notre-Dame and the towers of the Court-House were shapeless in the fog. The only sound was the rushing of the river. 

The sky was starless. Occasionally bright gleams of light appeared in the river, and undulated vaguely in its waters; Jean Valjean watched them.

“There are no stars in the sky,” he muttered, as if in a dream,  “they are on earth now.” 

Then he looked at Javert, who was breathing but unconscious, and shuddered. 

After Javert had so unexpectedly lost his mind and left him at the Rue de l’Homme Armé, Jean Valjean had quickly recovered his composure. His first task, he’d decided, was to conceal all of this from Cosette. There was no need for her future happiness to be sullied by his misery; her marriage should not be poisoned by the galleys and the sewer. She would be shielded from these realities. He would begin by bathing in the Seine, to wash the worst of the sewer mire off himself;  the next morning, he would reserve a private room in a bathhouse, and scrub the rest of it away with the strongest soap he could buy; and after that, after that…

He had quitted the Rue de l’Homme Armé and headed for the Seine, with the lost and passive air of a sleepwalker. Too weary to follow any conscious direction, he’d mechanically allowed his feet to guide him through the familiar streets; he had some vague idea that he would see where his body took him; somehow, he had found his feet taking him towards the Pont Au Change. When he heard the rushing of the water he’d started, as if waking from a dream. “How stupid I am!” he’d thought, “I have come to the rapids! What is it I’m doing? This is not a place for bathing; I would drown.”  Yet he had lingered for a moment. 

That had been a mistake.

He had then noticed a tall shadow, like a phantom, leaning on the parapet. When the phantom stood on the parapet, he had realized it was a living man who was attempting suicide. He’d staggered over to rescue him. Then a light had fallen on the man’s face— Jean Valjean had recognized Javert, shuddered, and hesitated. Yet when Javert had leapt into the river, he had followed him, and pulled him to safety. 

“This night!” he said bitterly, staring at the stones of the quai; cold water trickled off his clothes and formed a puddle around him. His hands trembled.  “That man!”

So Javert, that relentless frightful hunting dog, had apparently gone mad and thrown himself in a river; very well!  And now, had God decreed that it was the duty of Javert’s prey to lick his wounds? Was it the duty of the hunted fox to rescue the hound? He had tasted this agony before, but that did not make it less humiliating. 

What a terrible night this was! Every time he thought he was exhausted past all endurance God threw another trial at him, worse than the last. And he endured them all; oh God, he endured and endured and endured. Somehow his body did not break. He knew that it would not. He knew that it could not; he had lost all hope of that. If suicide had formed any part of why he had leapt into the river after Javert, he had failed in it— but he was not allowed to think of suicide, a profoundly irreligious act. He accepted that his lot was to suffer, and die, and be reborn, and suffer again. 

No man should have been able to survive this point of the Seine. He and Javert should both be dead. But God would not permit him to die, and by touching Javert he had imparted that curse to him as well.

Jean Valjean could not stay dead; the dead were at peace. He was doomed to live. 

He thought bitterly, and with a sort of rage, that even Prometheus had been given time to rest. It had seemed for the last few days that his organs were being devoured endlessly and without pause. There was no time to breathe, no time to regrow what had been taken; and every time he felt that his body was entirely broken, he discovered something new within him that could break. He did not know how much longer his body could be forced to live. 

“If I were allowed to die!” he said, as a prayer; the thought seemed blessed and sweet. 

But there was no time to rest. He had another task. He had another burden, another trial, another stone to roll up the hill. He had to help the horrible shivering creature he had just fished out of the river. 

He was too exhausted to think; he felt he was in a dream, and could not separate reality from his imagination. He attempted to focus on what he was certain was there in front of him. 

Javert was alive, more or less. He lay flat on his stomach, as limp as a drowned dog or a sack of potatoes. He was breathing but unconscious. 

What a poor sad wretch that Javert was! He could not fear him now. Looking at his limp body, Jean Valjean did not know how he had ever been afraid of such a pitiable thing. God had shown him his folly, to be afraid of such a pathetic creature. 

He knew that Javert would live. He knew this because it would be far too convenient for Jean Valjean if he were dead. God would never deliver him so easily. It was his fate to suffer all that a man could suffer, to be punished in every way a man could be punished, to crawl through life on his knees and leave his blood on every stone— so it was entirely fitting that he would need to rescue the man who had hounded him for years, who had murdered Fantine, and who would now send him back to prison. 

“First I saved that ninny Marius, so he can take my happiness,” Jean Valjean said with a smile, “And now this creature Javert, so he can take my freedom!”

And then he laughed— it was a laugh of triumph, and a laugh of despair. A few moments passed and it turned into a sob. The sound echoed against the wall in a way that was unbearably lonely. 

But then, he had nothing to fear anymore. All was over for him.  And he would not last long in prison, not at his age—! 

“But where to take him-- Javert,” Jean Valjean muttered.  “He must be taken…to the place where injured people go…”

He saw shadows in the corner of his vision. Every muscle in his body cried out in agony or exhaustion. He did not know if he would have the strength to carry Javert’s body anywhere.

“He belongs to the police,” Jean Valjean continued. “I could take him to the station-house by the Place du Châtelet, and leave him there like a foundling left on its doorstep…”

He attempted to stand. A horrible splitting pain shot up his leg and he collapsed back to the ground, shivering. He should avoid standing on that leg, he thought— it had been injured in the sewer, and the injury had grown worse when he had leapt into the river. 

He would have to find a way to bear Javert to safety without the use of one of his legs.

“That should be no matter for me,” he said between his teeth, thinking of the chain gang. He knew how to bear heavy burdens with one of his legs restricted. 

He crawled over to Javert’s side, wincing in pain, his bad leg dragging uselessly behind him. Then he began to inspect the man closely, calculating how he would carry him. 

Javert was a tall brick-shaped man with a broad chest and large flat hands. He lay on his stomach with his bulldog-like face and whiskers squashed against the stone. He wore a massive heavy greatcoat that was drenched with water, and a puddle had formed on the pavement around him. He would be heavy, he would be  very  heavy, he would be much heavier than Marius; he would be like carrying a massive drowned wolf. 

He sighed and tried to think. Every idea seemed absurd. Should he sling him over his back like Marius, and stagger along on one foot? Should he grab Javert by the legs and drag him? Should he attempt to crawl away like a cat and carry Javert with his teeth? 

His sigh turned into a sob. He would endure it; he had to. He would bear it; he had to. How he would do it he did not know. The only thing he knew for certain was that Javert would be lighter without his greatcoat. 

He gently turned Javert over onto his back. The man’s limbs flopped limply, like he was one of Cosette’s little dolls. His hands fell pathetically at his sides like the paws of a dead animal. Jean Valjean felt again: to think that I was ever afraid of this poor creature! 

He began to undo the buttons of Javert’s greatcoat. His vision darkened, his hands trembled, and undoing the buttons seemed a monumental and impossible task. They were cold and slippery. He worried that Javert would awaken to stop him, like a guard dog attacking an intruder. 

But Javert remained motionless. His eyes remained shut. His only movements were the faint rise and fall of his breath, and the steady trickle of water down his face and through his whiskers. 

Javert, that terrible hunting dog who had hounded him for so long, was finally at bay.

 Jean Valjean was suddenly overwhelmed with pity.

 It was the same pity he would have felt for any other man in Javert’s position. The cruel part of him that valued self-preservation had urged him to let Javert die; he had been tempted to listen; he had been tempted to let Javert drown and let his identity drown with him. He still, after all, had a deep fear of the police, and a helpless rage at his own persecution. And yet his conscience had cried out; he had obeyed his conscience; and now—

And now, looking at Javert’s poor unconscious face, he was relieved that he had. 

The drowned thing in front of him no longer seemed like an embodiment of the law; it was simply a helpless injured man, shivering in the cold like a child. He thought of his temptation to let Javert die and spat it out in disgust. That he should rob a man of his life for such a petty reason! That he should allow any living creature to be condemned to death for his own cowardice! Javert reminded him of Thénardier, and of his former chainmate who had become a turnkey — all those men broken by society, led down such horrible paths— how could he fear wretches who were so pitiable? He had not been any better when he had left the galleys. 

He was filled with the pride of self-sacrifice, and with the bitter joy of martyrdom. So Javert would arrest him– very well! He would return to infamy in the eyes of men and enter into sanctity in the eyes of God.

He continued unbuttoning Javert’s coat, his fingers struggling with the slippery brass buttons. His hands shivered in the cold. The tips of his fingers were numb. 

Javert’s lips parted slightly as if he were speaking in a dream. The wind blew through his whiskers. He shuddered violently, he stammered something in his sleep, and his fingers twitched like he was grasping for his cudgel. Jean Valjean wondered if he was dreaming of hunting men the way a dog would dream of hunting squirrels. 

It was far easier to find pity for Javert than it was to find pity for Marius. That insufferable Marius was despicable even when he was unconscious. He had a pedantic air even when he wasn’t speaking. 

But Javert, while unconscious, was easy to pity. So long as Javert was not awake— was not able to argue and threaten and make demands—he could care for him as easily as he would care for any other soul in pain. As long as Javert was asleep, he was nothing more than an object of sympathy. 

“At least God had granted me this one small mercy,” Jean Valjean said with a sad smile, “the poor wretch is not awake to make things difficult.”

Then Javert coughed. His eyes slowly fluttered open.

Jean Valjean dropped his hands to his sides. He gently closed his eyes. He raised his head. He rubbed his forehead with both hands, and took a long, slow, deep, pained, breath. 

 “Ah,”  Jean Valjean said in an indescribable tone of voice.

Javert slowly regained consciousness, squinting under the lamplight like a newborn puppy. He stared at his surroundings with a look of utter incomprehension, and then began sniffing at the air with his bulldog-like snub nose, as if trying to determine his location by smell. His brows furrowed, as if he recognized a familiar scent; then he made a sound of disgust, as if he smelled the lingering stench of sewage. He slowly adjusted to the light and opened his eyes wider. 

At last, he recognized Jean Valjean.

“Oh,” Javert said, dropping his eyelids, his voice barely above a whisper. “Of course.”

Another wave of exhaustion swept over Jean Valjean. His vision darkened, and he dug his nails into his palms to prevent himself from collapsing into unconsciousness. He wanted this to be over— oh God, how Javert might delay things now that he was awake! That annoying man! He might not get to rest for days yet! He would be trapped out here, wounded and in agony, with this strange stubborn argumentative bulldog of a man who always acted so bizarrely!  That this should happen to him, tonight, after all that he had already suffered! After all the good he had already done for that ninny Marius!

Why was that not enough? God, what would be enough? After all that he had suffered in prison, after all that he had suffered in Montreuil-Sur-Mer, after the eternity of these last few days, after all that he had done at the barricades, after all the help he had given those rebels, after dragging that pedantic boy though the endless sewers so that he could steal all that remained of his own happiness, after losing Cosette, after losing everything, after growing old without ever having been young, after suffering every agony a man could suffer without being permitted to have any of the joys that made them bearable, after accepting he was not permitted to have any of those joys, after surrendering, after recognizing that all was over for him, after agreeing to be arrested, after turning himself in, after diving into the rapids of the Seine to rescue a man who who would take whatever he had left— why was that not enough?  What else would he have to do? How much more should he have to bear?  That he should have to face a stubborn unreasonable man like Javert again, and argue with him, while he was so exhausted he could hardly think! That God should test him like this—! It was hard, it was very hard —

Jean Valjean looked up at the starless sky, pressed his hands together, and silently prayed that Javert would miraculously cooperate with him in a way that he never had before and that this would all be over quickly. 

Javert slowly struggled up onto his elbows, then winced in pain.

He looked down at his chest and saw his coat buttons were all undone. He muttered a curse under his breath, and began to mechanically button them all back up. 

Jean Valjean sighed.

“I suppose this is hell— or heaven!” Javert grumbled, without looking up from the buttons. “Apparently there’s no difference in this country…”

“This is a quai near the Pont Au Change,” Jean Valjean said in the infinitely patient voice he usually reserved for talking to small children.

“So I’m not dead yet,” Javert scoffed. “A pity!”

Jean Valjean stared at him, exhausted. 

Javert looked up and stared back, exhausted. 

They continued staring at each other, both of them in too much pain to speak. 

Then Javert raised his head, which appeared to take all of his energy; he wore the weary expression of a criminal in the presence of his judge. After a few moments he finally spoke. 

“Well,” Javert said tiredly. His words were slurred, as if he were drunk with fatigue. “You ought to finish it. Execute me.”

“Ah,” Jean Valjean said tiredly, his words also slurred. “No.”

“Come, come, now I’ve  thought  about it,” Javert said with an exhausted hand gesture, as if thinking was something very rare and special for him. “I ought to have gotten myself executed by force. That’s what ought to have happened. Here, that’s —that’s how it is.”

“You are being very odd,” Jean Valjean said. 

“I can tell you where to hide the body,” Javert offered helpfully. “I know where the police don’t look.” 

“Thank you, but that won’t be necessary,” Jean Valjean said politely, rubbing his temples and wondering whether this odd conversation was a dream. 

“Come-- if you execute me now, I can swear that I won’t tell anyone you did it!”

Jean Valjean frowned at him. 

Javert grinned.  

Jean Valjean continued frowning at him. 

Javert grinned wider, a horrible savage smile that showed all of his canine-like teeth and gums.

“Ah,” Jean Valjean said. “No, that would — no. Grant me this one favor. For all your faults you have always been an honest man, so I shall be honest with you. We do not have much time. You must—“

“I can always finish it myself,” Javert said, intent on his one idea. He attempted to gesture with his hand, but then grew tired and let it drop uselessly to the ground. “But it’s less honorable, if— resignation can be honorable, so execution is better. You see how it all is—“

Jean Valjean did not see how it all was. He could hardly hear what Javert was saying and did not understand anything he heard. His vision darkened, heart began to race, and the pain in his leg became more intense. Beads of perspiration began to trickle down his forehead. His thoughts grew more confused; they assumed the stupefied quality of despair.

He saw Javert slowly drag himself on his elbows a few inches back towards the river. 

“No,” Jean Valjean said, struggling to recall how to say words.

“I’ve  thought  about it,” Javert said.

“You must…think of something else.” 

“There are too many things in this world.” 

“Ah, yes,” Jean Valjean said in a voice that was almost a sob. “There are far too many things.”

He reached out and gently touched Javert’s hand.  

Javert recoiled wildly, drawing his hand back. Even his whiskers seemed to bristle, like a dog’s fur standing on end. He stared at his hand, as if stupefied that it had not burst into flames– then stared at Jean Valjean, trembling like a cornered animal.

Jean Valjean met Javert’s gaze. He looked deeply into his eyes, as if trying to plunge into the depths of his conscience and speak to him there. Javert’s eyes were wide and candid; it seemed that all of his conscience was easily visible in them; he felt that he could read the man’s very thoughts; it appeared as if there was nothing in his soul that was not also on his face. 

Jean Valjean saw that Javert was utterly terrified of him.

He was too exhausted to know how this made him feel. 

“Here, come,” Jean Valjean said, holding Javert’s gaze and cautiously extending his hand as if he were attempting to tame a feral animal. “Have no more fear of me than I have of you.”

“Hm!” Javert said, shuddering and dragging himself a few inches farther away. 

“You will come with me,” Jean Valjean said in a grave, firm voice.  “We will take you to— wherever is the best place for you, poor thing.”

Javert scowled, cursed, and muttered something about hating kindness. Jean Valjean stared at him in mingled annoyance and concern. He did not know if this was Javert’s usual unreasonable behavior or if he had suffered a head injury. 

 “Poor thing,” Jean Valjean thought inwardly. “It is not its fault.”

“That’s an order, is it,” Javert growled, casting his eyes down like an inferior in the presence of his supervisor.  “It’s an order to come with you.” 

“It is.”

“You say that I have to come with you.”

“You do.”

“I’m not permitted to—“ he mimed slitting his throat.

“You are not.”

“Well then,  Monsieur,” Javert grumbled in mock-sarcasm that did not sound sarcastic at all, “I suppose I can’t refuse.”

“What a very odd creature,” Jean Valjean said distantly, almost to himself. He was nearly faint with pain. He wanted this to be over. He wanted everything to be over. He did not know what this indescribably bizarre man wanted from him. 

“Can you stand?” he asked. “Or shall I carry—?”

“I  can  stand!” Javert snarled. He attempted to stand, staggered to his feet, whimpered in agony, and instantly fell flat on his face.

Jean Valjean, still kneeling, stared at him. Then he sighed deeply and buried his face in his hands, stifling a sob. 

“You ought to stop this absurdity,” Javert said into the ground, his voice muffled by the pavement. “It’s only right. It’s only just, you see. This is all false kindness! Or I thought it was, I don’t know what any of it is anymore. I hate kindness. It’s horrible. It enrages me. You know, when a dog bites— what does a reasonable man do? He isn’t kind, I tell you! He puts the dog down, is what he does. That is the sort of thing that must be done in this world.”

“Is it?” Jean Valjean asked, in far too much pain to comprehend anything Javert had said.

Javert was silent for a long time. 

“I don’t know,” Javert said despairingly.

Jean Valjean was struck by a sudden wave of pain from his leg. He made a strangled sound of agony and nearly collapsed, his vision darkening. His mind had lost its ability to retain thoughts; they passed over him like waves, and all he felt was anguish.

“Time is running short, Javert,” he said, struggling to keep his voice even, polite, and patient. “You may dispose of me how you will. It makes no difference to me. You know I have no intention of escaping you. I did not give you my address with the intent of escape. But grant me this favor; let me carry you—”

“Come, he still talks of prison!” Javert barked at the ground. “Damned saint!”

Javert crawled over to the wall of the quai, muttering curses, and began to use the wall to fight his way to a standing position. 

Jean Valjean did not move. He could not. He was overpowered by pain and exhaustion, and his body refused to obey him.

“I cannot endure this,” he said to himself. “I’ve finally broken. This– this is more than I can bear.”

Javert did not hear him.  

“They always make the walls too slippery by these damned quais,” Javert said, struggling for purchase against the wall. 

Jean Valjean attempted to move, but his fatigue was too great. It did not matter if he wanted to stand and help Javert— he could not. His limbs would not allow him to do it. His body was utterly broken. It was impossible.

He was filled with joy. 

It was the joy he had felt when his cart had broken on the way to Arras. He was done. He was finished. It was over. At last, at last, this hellish trial was over. 

He had done all he could, but it was no longer within his power; it was no longer his fault; it was out of his hands, and he could rest. All was over for him. He was forced to rest.

“You must know that’s all over— I’ve resigned!” Javert was barking, although Valjean hardly heard him.  “Now here, you see, something bars the way…”

“I cannot continue,” Jean Valjean quietly said to himself, nearly weeping with relief.  He could not move. “I  cannot.” 

“…a horrible world this is, where magistrates are down below and convicts are on high! Where the police are the servants of— jumble and confusion! A government of anarchy!  I ought to be punished, and I can’t be part of it...!“ 

Javert continued rambling incoherently. Jean Valjean did not catch his words, but only the vague outlines of them. He was so overwhelmed with relief that the rush of the river sounded comforting, and even Javert’s curses sounded like music. 

He collapsed. The world became dark and muffled around him. He settled into that darkness with a serene smile, and prayed that he would sleep forever. 

 





Javert was determined not to do any more thinking. 

He had finished with all that— with  thinking. Thought was useless and a fatigue; he’d made his decision. Before throwing himself into the river Javert had been forced to think and while thinking he had decided on two things: 

Jean Valjean should be alive, and free, at Rue de l’Homme Armé, No. 7.

He, Javert, should be dead. 

 Those were the only two things he knew for certain in this repugnant unreasonable world. That was the path he had chosen, and all he needed to do was ensure it was followed. He would be dead shortly, but the road to his death was straight. At last there was one straight track again. Whenever his mind tried to force him to think, he shut his eyes and calmly repeated the two simple points he had decided on: Jean Valjean should be alive and free at Rue de l’Homme Armé No. 7, and he, Javert, should be dead. There was no need to “think” about anything anymore. 

Jean Valjean had attempted to throw things into confusion; of course he had. That was the sort of thing that happened in this horrible country, as Javert was beginning to understand. Of course that hideous angel had dragged Javert from the river and ordered him to stay out of it. 

Javert could not disobey his order. Jean Valjean was an authority in this world, apparently— this was a world where saints were convicts and convicts were saints, a world where where a bagnard with a green cap could also have a halo on his brow and a holy scepter in his hand — and Javert would never disobey an authority. He could not remember a time before obedience had been beaten into him. He did not understand, but he knew that his duty was to obey his superiors regardless of whether he understood. It was not his place to argue or find fault. His place was to obey. Javert was a well-trained dog. 

But even if he could not disobey an authority, he could  remind  an authority of the way things were. He could bow his head and follow their orders for the moment, but  remind  them of the things they ought to know and the punishments they ought to give. 

Right now he was reminding Jean Valjean that he should be killed. 

He was explaining things very logically and rationally. It was all perfectly comprehensible. Soon that man would remember why Javert needed to be dead, why it was right, and then he would stop ordering him not to kill himself. 

Perhaps, he hoped, Jean Valjean might even execute him! How fitting that would be! How Javert would deserve it! How he would submit to it, as perfectly and obediently as a man  should  submit to his just punishment! How  right  it would be! There was nothing more just! Surely that convict must see that! And then Jean Valjean would return to Rue de l’Homme Armé No. 7 with blood on his monstrous holy hands, and Javert would be rotting in some shameful ditch, and everything between them would be as it should.

“And then, see,” Javert said between labored breaths as he finished another line of thought, one of his hands propping him up against the wall of the quai and the other twined mechanically in his whiskers, “As I’m your damned accomplice now, apparently, as I’ve sunk to that… or risen to it, it’s all the same in this country!… I’ll warn you the, the gendarmes are looking for insurgents. Rebels and barricades…such things there are in this world…!”

Javert forgot how he was going to end the sentence and made a tired gesture with one hand. He noticed that forming words was more of an effort than usual— it likely had something to do with “fatigue” or “agony”— but he was certain it did not affect his speech.  

“And this is the right thing to do, apparently,” he said mockingly. “The ‘right thing to do’ is to help criminals rebel against the government– ha!”

He struck the wall in frustration and reflected on how the world was an awful place where all the morally correct things to do were also terrible. This was why he was turning in his resignation.

“And you were at the barricades– that’s a crime, rebellion! If you don’t want to be shot dead in the street, hurry along. They patrol this area. You’ll be arrested by— another man! Not me, hear. Another man!”

He jabbed his finger in Jean Valjean’s direction.

“So move along now, move along, that’s my damned criminal advice for you,” he said. “Valjean?”

He noticed that Jean Valjean had collapsed onto the pavement and lay there unmoving. 

“Valjean?” He repeated.

A breath of wind from the river stirred Jean Valjean’s white hair. Otherwise, he did not move.

“Valjean!” Javert repeated in a worried snarl. “Or Fauchelevent, or Madeleine, or whatever absurdity—! ” 

A sudden horror seized him. 

He reminded himself of the two decisions he had come to that night, the decisions he had repeated to himself like a mantra: that Jean Valjean should be alive and free at Rue de l’Homme Armé No. 7, and that he, Javert, should be dead. 

What if Jean Valjean were to die?

And what if he were to die without rescinding his order for Javert to stay alive? 

“I won’t think about it!” Javert barked, covering his ears with his hands, “because he won’t!”

He staggered towards Jean Valjean, seized with a sudden energy. If Javert had been attempting to turn in his resignation to God, then God had soundly rejected it; he was in agony, but he could still walk. 

He stood next to Jean Valjean’s body. He was alive. He was alive because he had to be. It was decided. He was not allowed to be dead; it simply could not be allowed to happen. He would not think about that. 

Yet it was strange to see the man who had loomed so large in his thoughts suddenly lying helpless at his feet. 

For decades Jean Valjean had been no more than any other criminal to him. Then, at the barricades, he had suddenly revealed himself to be— he did not know what he was! He was a divine monstrosity beyond Javert’s comprehension, a god hiding in the clothes of a convict, Jesus Christ in a green cap, a hideous angel with a fiery sword and a thousand eyes that could crush him with a glance and yet gently told him “be not afraid” and “you are free.” 

Now he looked disturbingly human. His white hair clung to his weatherbeaten face. His shirt, which had probably been white before he’d dragged it through the sewers, was torn— through the holes Javert could see the tangled outlines of scars on his back. Jean Valjean’s hands shivered against the stone; for such broad strong hands, they seemed strangely fragile. Every aspect of him breathed weariness and agony. He looked like any of the other criminals at Toulon, and any of the corpses that Javert had seen dragged out of the nets of Saint-Cloud—

“No thinking!” Javert growled, catching himself. “I’ve done my thinking! It’s  done!” 

Javert gently prodded Jean Valjean’s shoulder with the toe of his boot. Jean Valjean did not react, so he prodded him again. Jean Valjean remained still. Javert’s hands began trembling violently, he stammered out a curse, he refused to think about the possibility that he would not wake up, and then he prodded him again. 

At last, Jean Valjean’s eyes slowly opened. He moved his head, looked up at Javert… and then dropped his head back on the ground with a muffled groan of pain. 

“Your address is Rue de l’Homme Armé, No. 7,” Javert said. 

Jean Valjean babbled something incoherent.

“It is within walking distance!”

Jean Valjean babbled again. 

“It is within dragging distance too, if necessary!”

Javert stooped and, with enormous effort, managed to drape Jean Valjean’s arm over his shoulder and drag the man to his feet. One of his legs was apparently broken, he noticed; so Jean Valjean stood on his other one, leaning most of his weight on Javert like a crutch, the bad leg dragging uselessly behind him. 

It was horribly unpleasant. Jean Valjean was heavy. His white hair brushed against Javert’s cheek and sideburns, making him flinch; he was cold and dripping with grime and river water. He stank strongly of sewage.

Javert cursed; he hated that he lived in a horrible absurd country where saints could smell like sewage. A fine world this was!  This  was why he was turning in his resignation.

“Now, come along!” Javert said, and began to slowly help Jean Valjean stagger forward. Jean Valjean murmured something incoherent, but slowly took an awkward one-legged step.

“Here, we’re going. Rue de l’Homme Armé, No. 7. Before you get arrested. Yes?”

Jean Valjean sighed– an agonized, broken, hopeless sound. Then he murmured something that seemed like agreement, and nodded his head. 

For a moment Javert hesitated.

He reminded himself that the police and gendarmes were still prowling the streets. It would not be easy for him to play this criminal’s accomplice, for him to hide this insurgent convict from the eyes of the government, for two men who were owned by the law to try setting themselves above the law. Their injuries and ragged clothing made them suspicious, and they would be taken for vagrants if they weren’t taken for rebels. It was unlikely that he would get Jean Valjean back to Rue de l’Homme Armé, No. 7 without being stopped by an agent of the authorities. Then they would both be found out, and taken to prison! Then the law would reassert its rights, crime would be punished, insubordination would be violently extinguished, all this rebellion would be crushed as surely as the rebellion of the previous days had been crushed—

“I won’t think about that!” Javert snarled. “No more ‘thinking!’ The first thing is that Jean Valjean will be alive, and free, at Rue de l’Homme Armé, No. 7. The second thing is that I will be dead by morning. He’ll be put back where he’s supposed to be, and if anything stands in his way—“

Jean Valjean staggered forward and Javert caught him. 

“Well, he’s got a guard dog!” 

He let out another string of curses, and slowly helped Jean Valjean stumble forward. 

Thank you for reading <3 . I have a structure for seven chapters laid out, but there's a chance I may leave it as a one-shot :'). You can talk to me on tumblr at @secretmellowblog or in the Les Mis Letters discord server.

Do not stay out too late at night in the aftermath of a rebellion, or you may encounter ghosts.

People always forget Jean Valjean and Javert are cryptids.

Thank you to everyone who left nice comments on the previous chapter! I was considering leaving this fic as a one-shot, but I've had the full 7-chapter outline planned for a while....and while I enjoy writing this fic for its own sake, the nice comments gave a lot of added motivation to get it into a publish-able state.

Also, a big thank you to Ellen (@Fremedon on Tumblr/Ellen_Fremedon on ao3) for beta reading. You can thank her for (among other things) any of the specific military stuff in this fic seeming somewhat grounded in historical research, and also for suggesting the horse. The aftermath of the rebellion is very important to any post-barricades fic and I'm glad I had help with it.

And thanks again to @alicedrawslesmis and @Pilferingapples on Tumblr for the original post/reblogs that inspired this fic, as well as all the discord mutuals who have conversations with me about Les Mis regularly. <3 It takes a village to write a fanfic, I guess.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



“The dead are not subjected to surveillance. They are supposed to rot in peace. Death is the same thing as pardon.”


– Jean Valjean, Les Misérables, Volume 5 Book 7 Chapter 1,  Hapgood Translation




“Legally, death puts an end to pursuit.”


— Javert, Les Misérables, Volume 5 Book 4 Chapter 1, Hapgood Translation 



After the National Guard successfully suppresses a rebellion, there is relief among the ruling class; they exhale and breathe freely again; and then, they turn from crushing those who attack to crushing those who flee. They turn from attacking barricades to attacking safehouses.

The police are sent out in full force. The military occupies the city. Spies hunt for the dens of rebels, like hunting dogs for the dens of foxes. All the government’s forces fly out in pursuit of one object: that object is not the defeat of its enemies, as they have already been defeated; it pursues their annihilation. 

It is not enough for a barricade to fall, as the men who built the barricades must be executed; it is not enough for the men to be executed, as their ideas must be crushed with them. It is not a victory until the opponent is utterly extinguished. 

But men are harder to destroy than a barricade, and ideas are harder to kill than men.  

No government has ever succeeded in entirely annihilating their opposition. The Republic has its secret passages, its hideouts, its safehouses, its allies, its friends who are willing to say to the police: “no, so-and-so was certainly not at the barricades at all!” It has sympathizers who will lead its wounded to safety, and doctors who will tend to injuries without speaking to the police. Paris is a labyrinth, and all those persecuted by the law can find innumerable ways to escape into its depths. 

Even so, the aftermath of a defeated rebellion is a dark and mournful period. 

 A pall falls over Paris. These weeks are a funeral for a lost future. The heaps of paving stones, not yet restored to their places, appear like the headstones of unsettled graves. The graffiti on the walls— “Vivent Les Peuples, Vive Lamarque, Vive la République,”— are epitaphs for progress halted in its tracks.

The fighting continues amidst this funeral but its character is changed. The open violence of the National Guard is replaced by the furtive violence of the police spy. The heat of battle is replaced by the slow dread of legal investigation and court trials. The deaths of rebels in broad daylight and full view of the public are replaced by silent hidden deaths behind bars. The prisoner of war becomes the galley slave. Execution by musket-shot and cannon fire is replaced with execution by imprisonment and guillotine. 

And when the people of a country are surrounded by death on all sides, they are inevitably also surrounded by stories of ghosts. The National Guard was particularly uneasy. A ghost can be the manifestation of a guilty conscience.  

There is an ancient superstition, among certain members of the military, that if a man is out too late in the nights after a revolution he inevitably encounters phantoms. The ghosts of soldiers wander the roads, take aim, make salutes, follow orders, and hunt for dissidents. The ghosts of rebels tear through the streets, blazing with a dark fire, eyes flashing, hair floating, ripping up paving stones and flying a red flag.

These phantoms may not even be aware they are dead. 




The National Guard was fully mobilized; the military ordered its men to assist with crushing the rebellion; the soldiers had orders to stop and search anyone suspicious. 

Lieutenant Théodule Gillenormand found this tiring. 

He was a lancer. He was meant to sit upon a great horse and lead the cavalry against foreign enemies. He was built to ride at the forefront of parades, in his glorious uniform, with his girlish wasp-waist, and his blonde hair done neatly in the modern fashion, and his sword trailing victoriously, and his blue eyes flashing at the ladies, and his mustache waxed; he was meant, in short, to partake in all the glory and pageantry of war, and not in the parts that were ugly and cumbersome. 

Théodule had a profound respect for the military, but he only truly valued two things: having finery and looking pretty. He succeeded at these things very well. 

Yet because his regiment was in Paris he had received orders, bafflingly enough, to get involved with quelling some unexpected riot or other. He had fortunately avoided the front lines; “lancers would be of little use there, without our horses,” he told the foot soldiers who grumbled at their regiment’s cowardice. Théodule’s real concern was how the gunpowder stained his uniform and made his mustache droop, but it really was true that a man on horseback would’ve been worse than useless in such narrow streets, against such things as barricades.

But then, once all the barricades had been swept off, there came the work of “restoring order.” There were apparently very few men to spare, and even lancers were ordered to play police spies. They were to hunt for rebels who escaped the cannonfire, stopping and searching any persons who looked suspicious.

Lancers did not have much training in this. However, they did have something far more valuable, which was loyalty to the monarchy. In a time when servants of the government often defected to stand by the enemy, Théodule’s regiment was trusted to be faithful to King Louis-Philippe.   

So lancers on horseback were ordered to patrol the large open streets and ensure no crowds gathered to foment more unrest. In addition to stopping and searching suspicious persons, they were to stop any man who appeared to be making some grand speech to rally a group, to interrupt gatherings of protestors or mourners or who-knows-what-all, to threaten any smatterings of people who even stepped near the husks of the abandoned barricades; they were, in summary, to prevent even a handful of angry people ever getting themselves in one place. The lancers were given full authorization to charge their great horses into mobs of people to make them disperse.

However, it was thought that things would not need to come to that. The government believed that simply having lancers patrolling these areas would be enough to frighten people out of attempting to come together. It was believed that a tall handsome soldier, on a majestic white horse, glittering with medals, with a gun and a sword at his side, parading through the streets like a figure from a great Classical painting, would remind citizens of the government’s might and power.  

 Théodule had been ordered to patrol the area around the Pont au Change.

“Capital!” He muttered. “It seems a sleepy place. I shall be able to parade to and fro, without interruption, and make a great show.”

He arrived on his magnificent white horse— a beautiful stallion, with a long flowing mane that was carefully brushed, a wondrous silvery coat, a strong body with straining muscles, polished hooves, ornate studded reins, and every glittering accoutrement and decoration he could afford to lavish on him.  Théodule had given this stallion the most noble and worthy name he could think of, which was “Alfred.”

Alfred, like Théodule, was very pretty and not very given to deep thought. He dutifully trotted back and forth. 

For hours Théodule rode up and down along the length of the esplanade, twirling his mustache in the debonair manner he had. Occasionally he dutifully accosted some beggars, and made a pretense of having them turn out their pockets, though he did not care enough to look too closely. 

He had no excessive taste for this kind of police work, but he had his orders, and he was paid to follow them. 

He was assigned to patrol this area until his relief arrived at two o’clock in the morning. As the night grew deeper, there were no longer any chance passersby. The streets became empty and silent as a tomb. The funereal pall that had settled over Paris in the aftermath of the failed rebellion seemed to grow thicker. 

If the government’s goal was to prevent crowds from forming, they succeeded very well; Théodule was perceived as the threat the government intended him to be. By the time the last light vanished from the sky all the citizens of Paris had barricaded themselves indoors.

It was a dull thing to parade without an audience. 

“To think they are having me keep up this farce until two in the morning,” Théodule said. “There is not a soul awake tonight. The rebels have all gone back underground, or they are captured. It really is a bore.”   

At one o’ clock he rode his horse away from the Pont Au Change, down the Rue de la Verrerie, simply because it was something to do. However there had been some fighting in the area on the fifth, and the paving stones were so torn up it was treacherous to ride on; after a long time he gave up and turned back towards the Place du Châtelet.

“Bother all of this,” he muttered. “Tomorrow I will buy myself a new hat.”

As he rode back towards the Seine, he imagined what sort of hat he would purchase, and that perhaps he would also purchase a new coat— and perhaps some new shoes, too, if he could afford such an extravagance. He was so lost in dreams of haberdashery, and a large magnificent frock coat with three collars, and buttons of gold and silver, that he almost did not see the shadowy figures out of the corner of his eye.

He looked over at a huddle of buildings just in time to see the mysterious shadowy figures enter a narrow alleyway.

“Hey, what is this?” he said, reining in his horse. “I suppose it’s my duty to go and see about it.”

And he rode Alfred up to the entrance of the alley. It gaped between the tall buildings like a large horrible toothless mouth.

It is difficult, in these modern days, to truly remember the darkness of the alleys and side streets of 1832. This was before gas lanterns cast their bright lights into every single nook and corner, before the streets were thrown into garish light at all hours. The Old City was a place of shadow, where men could vanish into the night; it was filled by a darkness that confounded the police, that concealed the murderer and sheltered the rebel. Criminals of all types threw themselves into this shadow as into a river. They allowed themselves to be swallowed up and were lost— lost, at any rate, to the official records of the police. 

The profound darkness and solitude of this narrow side street might have provoked, in another man, some sort of solemn meditation and wariness of the horrors that could conceal themselves within it. 

Théodule was not that man. He made a habit of never thinking deeply about anything. All he noticed was that the side-street was very dark, and very poor. He also noticed that it had been affected by the fighting of the past few days; there were heaps of paving stones kicked up here and there. It was no place to take a horse, unless one wanted to break its knees.

He dismounted and tied Alfred to a nearby post. That was when he noticed his horse seemed unsettled by the alleyway. He whinnied nervously, and shook his great mane, and appeared to shrink away from the darkness as if he instinctively sensed the presence of a predator.

“Here,” Théodule said, “I will only be gone for a moment. This shall be over with quickly.”

He walked into the alley. 

There was, as we have mentioned, too little light to see by. The buildings, tall and narrow and stark, blocked out what light might have been given by the moon. There were no stars. A single lamp was strung in between the black buildings, and it produced only the smallest circle of light. 

However, it was clear that some large shadow was moving down the narrow street. Théodule followed, at a distance.

Was this shadow a man? No. Was it two men, walking together? That seemed more likely, from the shape of it. It was too dark to see for certain.

 But why should these two men be out so late at night, in such a deserted spot, after such an event as a rebellion? And— the thought suddenly occurred to him—if they were simple criminals then why did they walk so boldly and heedlessly near the police station-house at the Place du Châtelet, when all Paris knew that the government’s forces were currently out in their full might?

Théodule was not poetic or imaginative. Yet as he looked at this mysterious shadow, a strange chill passed over him, and he shuddered. He recognized within it the shroud of the uncanny. He wondered what it was that he was actually following, and whether he really ought to draw its attention.

There was something horrible and unnatural about its movements. The shadow did not walk; it shambled, with a slow jerking pace, like a piece of machinery that had broken, or clockwork that had run down. As Théodule stared deeply at it he thought he could vaguely see something that almost resembled a face, which was hideous; and he thought he could hear something that almost resembled a voice, which was monstrous. He fancied he heard fragments of things that almost sounded like words, and of curses, and of faint gasps of agony, and yet they did not sound like the sort of sounds humans would produce. 

It was as if all the immense obscurity of the night had been condensed into this unknown being. It had the air of a two-headed devil that had just returned from hell.

Certainly, this was the sort of suspicious thing he was ordered to investigate, he told himself. Certainly it was a simple matter. Certainly he had done right by dismounting his horse to follow them into the dark. Certainly these were simply two drunken rebels, whom it was necessary to stop, to search, to pinion, to restrain, to arrest. His orders demanded so; it was his duty; then afterwards he would buy his new hat. And what a lovely hat it would be! And perhaps if he arrested some very dangerous fellow, they would lavish him with a great sparkling medal that he could wear on his chest, and show to ladies, and polish very neatly until it shone. So he must accost these persons.

He halted. He found himself rooted to the spot. 

Théodule was a man of courage. However, he had the courage of the soldier— that is, to say, he had the courage of a man who fights by daylight, on horseback, side by side with his compatriots,  and advances on a known enemy at a time agreed upon in advance. He had not yet developed the courage of the assassin, which consists of blind violence alone in the dark.     

“Bosh!” Théodule said to himself. “So these are two beggars or vagabonds out tonight, perhaps, and I shall have to deal with them. That is all. A dull affair.”

Yet he was put out of countenance by the shadow, as it slowly shambled through the black street. There really was something inexplicably spectral and demonic about this apparition, appearing as it did in such an abandoned road, among the rubble of abandoned barricades, when Théodule had not seen another living being in nearly an hour.

He was not a superstitious man —save for the superstitions of the military. It was possible that even he, as frivolous and vain as he was, had become unsettled by the violence of the past days, and was affected by the funereal air that had fallen over Paris. He recalled the whispered legends among his fellow lancers that, after failed rebellions, the phantoms of combatants would appear in the streets to continue the battle. He recalled rumors of National Guardsmen dying alone in their homes, when they thought the fighting was over; he recalled rumors that the coroners could find no wounds on them, as if they had simply died of terror. 

Phantoms, unlike men, did not fear muskets. 

Still Théodule persisted, as was his duty. He had orders to follow.

He slowly walked deeper into the alley, as far as he dared; that is, to the very end of the weak circle of light from the hanging lamp. For the first time all night, he began to seriously consider which weapon he should use, and whether a sword would be better for close combat. He decided to leave his sword at his side and hold up his musket instead, as it seemed more threatening. The most important thing was to put on a great show of force, and a musket was better for show. 

And so he stood up straight under the narrow circle of lamplight and held his musket in his hands, proudly and openly, so that the shadow could see it. He also hoped it would see the sword that glittered at his side. If it were some pair of rebels, they would know not to try any nonsense. 

“Good evening,” he said. 

The shadow halted.

Then it slowly turned to face him. 

It was in the darkness beneath an awning, and seemed to melt into that darkness utterly. It was difficult to tell where the figures ended and the empty darkness began. Théodule saw that the shadow had two heads; one of them was hideous, and the other was horrible. 

So the shadow  was only two men— one of them wounded and leaning on the other? It must be. But in the darkness they look conjoined. And something about their limbs seemed off, as if they had been broken so far they bent in the wrong directions. 

It remained silent, as if looking at him and considering him.

“Good evening,” Théodule repeated again, after a long silence. 

“Good …evening,” the shadow at last replied. The voice did not sound human. It was a sort of horrible savage rasp, that resembled the demonic growl of a ghoul or the snarl of a dying dog. 

And there was no fear in its voice. It was not afraid of his musket.

Théodule adjusted his musket again, gesturing with it, hoping to give the shadowy figures a bit of a fright— perhaps send them running, scare them enough that he could see them properly.  He noticed that he had entirely forgotten the script he was supposed to use with malefactors.  

He peered deeply at it– it, or them?-- and caught a sudden glint of light off the eyes of one of the shadowy figures. It was a savage furious light. It was the light in the eyes of a guard dog that senses a threat. It was the light flashing in the eyes of a wolf beneath the shadows of the forest as it prepares to pounce on the hunter.  

Théodule reflected, for the first time, on the solitude of the spot. These sorts of aimless side streets were Paris’s version of a wilderness, regardless of how close they were to a police station-house. If there were any place for a servant of the government to be ambushed by the rebels of the wild, for a servant of the King to be torn to pieces by the wolves of the Republic, it was in a narrow alley such as this. 

And if it did come to fighting— he would likely win, but it might spoil his uniform. This thought affected him deeply.

“Come! I am a lieutenant lancer,” Théodule said, in a voice quite unlike his usual easygoing tone. He gestured with his musket. “And I am well-armed.”

The shadow seemed to snarl exhaustedly; it produced a long series of sounds that were probably meant to be words, but they blended together like the growl of a beast, and Théodule did not understand them. Then the shadow eyed him in silence. 

“Can you repeat that?” Théodule asked.

When the shadow spoke again, its voice was different. This time the voice was not at all like the snarl of a hellhound, but the infinitely weary cry of a ghost, which seemed to rise from fathomless depths: 

 “Do as you will with me,” it sighed. Yet there was still no fear in its tone. It expressed only resignation, grief, and a fatigue so utterly profound it was indescribable.

In such a tone,  “do as you will with me” seemed a sinister challenge, or a bitter curse. Cain might have said "do as you will with me" in the same way.  

After that voice finished, the snarling one began speaking again, but Théodule could not comprehend what it was saying, only that it sounded furious.

The lieutenant, now entirely disconcerted, aimed his musket at the shadowy figures. 

The shadows, undeterred, began to advance towards him. He heard the snarling voice begin to speak, and to say— 

Suddenly the bells of Notre Dame struck two. 

“What is it I am doing!” Théodule said suddenly, slapping his forehead, and ignoring the ‘words’ the shadow was saying. “It is now two o’clock— it is time for my relief to take over. This is not my duty anymore. Tomorrow morning I will wake up early to buy my hat, a fine evening hat made of silk, and that is all that matters. That is good, that is capital. I will leave someone else to deal with the rest of this nonsense.”

The shadow’s voices said something incoherent that he did not listen to. 

“The deuce!” Théodule muttered, as he took this opportunity to make a retreat. “That vagabond beggar creature, or creatures — it is a problem for another man. For whoever they send out after me. Really, it is their fault for sending a lancer to do the work of a police spy!” 

He untied Alfred from the post, mounted him, and then rode away (perhaps a little more quickly than was warranted) in the direction of his barracks, twirling his well-curled mustache into a hook. 

 

 

The shadowy figures were left alone in the dark side street. 

“That ninny of a lieutenant!” Javert barked, staggering forward like a dog pulling at the end of its leash. “He was probably frightened.”

“Ah,” Jean Valjean said as he swayed against him. Javert no longer cringed at his touch.

They had been walking for— Javert had lost his ability to comprehend time; it seemed they had been walking endlessly, and that ‘time’ was another one of those lies which he once believed in, that had been proven false; time was another solid foundation which had abruptly given away, because of course it was, because of course there was nothing in which anyone could trust. At any rate they had been walking long enough that he was accustomed to Jean Valjean’s weight.

Despite all the time, they had not gotten far. Jean Valjean’s injured leg meant that they could only take short, awkward steps, and Javert was forced to assist him over the smallest of obstacles— a loose paving stone, a curb, a fragment of debris. If Javert permitted himself to think about it, he might have compared it to the way Jean Valjean had led him to his ‘execution’ in the alley of the Mondetour barricade, when his limbs were bound so tightly he could hardly walk; he might have reflected on how their roles had reversed, and have drawn some conclusion or other. He did not permit himself to think about it. He was outraged that he had even allowed himself to notice the similarity at all. 

There were only two things he was permitted to think, only two certainties that existed: by morning Jean Valjean should be returned to Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7, and he, Javert, should be dead.  

He no longer thought about the agony of his own body– “I will not be using it for much longer,” he sometimes muttered. Yet he recognized that he was unraveling. His brain was bursting beneath the pressure of the incontestable incomprehensibility that was weighing down on him, he spoke aloud without meaning to and said nonsense, he doubled over in pain involuntarily, the world was unsteady and monstrous all about him, his vision darkened and he would stagger along as if in a dream, and etc etc etc, all these ridiculous useless absurdities. He acknowledged them but did not dwell on them. He had his burden, his duty, his last trial before he was permitted to turn in his resignation, his last act of servitude that would end by finally permitting him the joy of a righteous execution. Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7– that was all there was. 

“Well, then, so now we have seen the dolts they are making into lieutenants,” Javert growled, “so these are the ‘great men’ they permit to eat the government’s bread!”

“Oh,” Jean Valjean said. 

 “What can one trust? There is nothing that can be agreed upon anymore! If one cannot even trust a bourgeois in such a uniform, and who the government calls a lieutenant, to behave properly! If one cannot trust a man in such a splendid coat!  This,” he said in a low tone, grunting in pain as he struggled to help Jean Valjean take another step, “this is why I’m turning in my resignation.”

“Ah,” Jean Valjean said indifferently.

“If he had stayed and searched us, as was his  duty,  I would’ve explained matters further,” he said haughtily. “He would not permit me to explain. If he had stayed, you would’ve seen how well I would have explained! I would have— ‘Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7.’ That is what there is. That is all there is. It is useless to think further. It is perfectly simple.”

“Oh,” Jean Valjean said.

“But I should have expected no better, as this is a false country— I have been compelled to see its falsehoods, to see that all of society and law and government and legislation and magistracy and sovereign authority and civil service and penal codes and all the dogmas on which rest political and civil security, can apparently only be summed up as a great farce someone is playing,” Javert’s words began to blend together into an utterly incoherent snarl of rage, “it is all deceit, deceit from on high, from the very forces ‘on high’ they tell you are incapable of deceit, they lie to their servants, so that their servants believe themselves honest when they are simply party to a great lie—and then they put their empty-headed imps of dandies into the uniforms of lieutenants, and they put their saints in the green caps of galley-slaves and brand them ‘forced labor for life,’ and they trick their honest servants into crime by dressing up the true authorities in the costumes of the false, and the false authorities in the costumes of the true! If there is any ‘true’ authority all! If one can trust in anything! If there is not a rift in the very firmament! If it is not all rubbish, waste, anarchy, a shapeless mass, ruin, chaos—If the very ground beneath our feet does not give way—!”

“Oh,” Jean Valjean said, stumbling on a loose paving stone; he lost his balance, clutched at Javert’s coat, and dragged him to the side. Javert staggered.  In a moment the two of them had fallen to the cobblestones in a confused painful tangle of limbs.

“Hmm!” Javert said, extricating himself from underneath Jean Valjean. Then he rose to his hands and knees and shook the sewer mire off himself, like a dog shaking the mud out of its fur. 

“This is why thought is useless,” Javert explained with a wag of his finger, haughtily dropping his eyelids. “See there! I was too busy thinking over some nonsense or other I have already settled, that I did not see the loose stone. You see what it is.”

“Ah,” Jean Valjean said, lying face-down on the pavement. 

“They always pave the streets badly in this country,” Javert added bitterly, “This is why I’m turning in my resignation!”

“Oh,” Jean Valjean said weakly. 

“Now come, get up, hurry along. Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7. Yes?”

Jean Valjean did not respond. 

“Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7?” Javert repeated.

Jean Valjean still did not respond. 

Javert started, and looked at Jean Valjean. He lay on the ground utterly silent and motionless. Javert could not tell if he was breathing. 

“Jean Valjean!”  

He did not not stir.

“Come—with this nonsense again!”  Javert  snarled, and half-pounced onto Jean Valjean. 

He placed his large hands on Jean Valjean’s shoulder, and rolled him over onto his back. Then he seized his wrists and felt for a pulse. His hands were icy cold. They were clammy and damp from the river. He did not know whether the pulse he detected was Jean Valjean’s or his own, and he could not determine if the shuddering was Jean Valjean’s or his own.

He looked at his face.  His eyes were shut, and his lips were parted; he bore an expression of utter unspeakable anguish. His skin was no longer pale, but livid; it appeared hardly lighter than his hair, which clung to his forehead, damp with river-water and with sweat. He seemed far older than he was. Javert listened closely for his breathing; and he heard that he  was  breathing, at the very least, but his respiration seemed weak to the point of extinction. 

“Rue de l'Homme Armé, No.7!” Javert growled to prevent himself from thinking. 

He put a question to himself: how was he to force Jean Valjean to live long enough to get him back to Rue de l'Homme Armé, No.7? And all that was not connected with this question vanished from his thoughts.

Javert had once more succeeded in reducing all that was complicated in the world down to a single straight line. There was only one duty, and it was to get this hideous angelic monster back to Rue de l'Homme Armé, No.7; there was only one path, and it was the road that would lead them there. There was no future after that to consider, for he, Javert, would be dead by morning.  

He had a great incomprehensible unknown hanging over his head, but he did not permit himself to think of it. He did not permit himself to reconsider or debate. He had done enough thinking and was finished with it forever. 

He had decided “he shall be left alive and free at that address” and he had decided “I shall turn in my resignation to God” —but then to his outrage those decisions had been revoked, and now he was furiously revoking the revocation. He was offended that things had come to such a pass. Some idiot had unwritten the correct ending and now his last implacable duty was to put things back where they rightfully belonged. 

This night, these hours, this road, this single straight path, this last duty before his execution,  that impossible man, that heartbeat which was so weak, those hands which were so cold, those breaths which were so faint, now made up all of existence for him. These small things constituted his entire universe. There was nothing beyond them on all sides but an endless yawning gulf. 

He looked at Jean Valjean’s unconscious face, the weak rise and fall of his chest, the trembling in his fingers, and he was filled with a strange fury. A tiger roared within him. He longed to fling himself upon Jean Valjean, seize him, sink his teeth into his neck as if devouring him, and drag him away like a wolf with its prey; that is, to say, Javert wished he possessed the strength to simply carry an unconscious Jean Valjean to Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7 in his arms. He did not. 

Instead he shook Jean Valjean’s shoulders vigorously, snarling in desperation.

After some minutes of shaking, Jean Valjean slowly opened his eyes. 

Javert released his grip. His hands trembled. He stared into Jean Valjean’s eyes as if trying to ransack his thoughts.

“Oh,” Jean Valjean said placidly. “I fell asleep.”

“Asleep!” Javert said. 

“Asleep,” Jean Valjean repeated distantly. He stared at Javert with the blank unreadable eyes of a corpse that had been forcefully pulled from its grave. It was the sort of gaze that expressed no emotion and forbade all questions.  

“Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7,” Javert said, sinking into his coat. “Then it will all be in order. You shall have me executed, if it pleases you, or I can do it myself. You shall give me orders. We shall go to Rue de l'Homme Armé, No. 7.”

“No.7,” Jean Valjean repeated. His eyes began to flutter shut.

“No, no, here —!” Javert grumbled. He clutched Jean Valjean, shook him, and hurriedly dragged both of them back to their feet so that Jean Valjean was once again standing while leaning on Javert’s shoulder. He was still able to stand, fortunately. Javert had him take a step, and he was still able to do that as well. But all of his limbs seemed stiffer, as if the rigidity of death was already falling upon him. 

“Oh,” Jean Valjean sighed in despair. “Oh.”

“It is not permitted,” Javert said. Even he did not know what he meant by this. 

“Ah,” Jean Valjean responded.

The two of them continued limping down the dark street, and the shadows of the night enveloped them like a shroud.

 

 

 

Thank you so much for reading!

My full outline for this fic is only about seven chapters, and I was glad to finally continue. I may continue it more in the future. Again, I enjoy writing this fic just for the sake of writing it-- but all the nice comments on the previous chapter gave me a lot of motivation/encouragement to get things into a publish-able state! Thank you again. <3

Some notes:1. I feel like Jean Valjean is easier to write 'from the outside' because his trauma response is often to entirely dissociate from reality and not engage with anything that's happening around him. If you're wondering how he's doing in his head right now, the answer is "badly." If I continue this fic we'd get more of his perspective in the next chapters.

2. I noticed the rebellion often disappears into the background in a lot of Valjean-and-Javert-focused fics (including my own older ones :P). However, I consider the rebellion to be Very Necessary and Important. In my mind the point of the dramatic Seine rescue would need to be....the Symbolism. The connection between rebellion and criminality, and etc etc.

3. To be clear there's nothing literally supernatural in this fic, Valjean and Javert are just canonically Like That.

Come talk to me on tumblr at @secretmellowblog! Or on Discord in the Les Mis Letters Discord server (link to the server is on the @lesmisletters Tumblr blog.)