Title: Calvary
Work ID: 33132517
Author: PBJellie
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Combeferre/Courfeyrac (Les Misérables), Bahorel/Feuilly (Les Misérables), Javert/Jean Valjean, Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Other ships not tagged - Relationship
Additional Tags: District 3 (Hunger Games), Alternate Universe - Hunger Games Setting, Hunger Games-Typical Death/Violence, Angst, Rebels, Implied/Referenced Rape/Non-con, Child Abandonment, Substance Abuse, Mental Health Issues, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder - PTSD, Pining, Minor Character Death, Trans Male Character, Neurodiversity, trans Combeferre, Panic Attacks, Sex as a Weapon
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 19/19

"Is sweeping really training?" Courfeyrac laughed, pushing his broom along the floor of the inn. 

"It's aerobic."

Combeferre thought cleaning was a poor use of his time, but if he was told to polish the wood with an old rag, then he would. Maybe doing chores for the innkeeper helped them keep cover. They weren't rebels being trained to infiltrate the Hunger Games, they were just two boys exchanging labor for wages. Who would question that? 

Especially knowing that Combeferre survived on the charity of the Bishop. Or he had, up until the Bishop died. He was lucky the rebels found him scrounging around behind their base of operations and decided he could be of use. It could have been so much worse. 

Courfeyrac lifted the bristles off the ground like he was holding a sword. He swung it more akin to how one would swing a baseball bat or a stick at a pinata. In fairness, Combeferre was a poor judge of form in all manners of athleticism. 

He performed abysmally in sports, usually the last picked. Whether that was lack of prowess or lack of social skills, he couldn't say with certainty. The rebels seemed satisfied with his fitness, so perhaps he could, and he was feigning ignorance. 

Easily, Combeferre could do a hundred sit ups and a hundred pull ups. He could hang by his fingertips from a ledge for at least a minute, even when exhausted. Recently he clocked an eight minute mile, and while Courfeyrac was able to run one in seven, that was only when the track was free of distractions. 

Courfeyrac was better at everything he tried, as long as he actually tried. To his credit, Combeferre was better at trying, but it was clear that Combeferre was the one to help, not to lead. 

"Enguard!" 

On occasion, Combeferre became entangled in his own thoughts. It was a frequent occasion, and it seemed that every time he was ensnared in this environment there were consequences. 

Sometimes they were natural; he'd bump into a wall because he was watching a common moth flit around a gas lantern. Other times, most of the time, they were imposed by an outside force; a scolding, quick smacks with wooden ruler to the fronts of his hands, or food would be withheld. A broom to the Achilles tendon was not a typical punishment for unwanted behavior, but it would serve the purpose. 

Courfeyrac giggled, "gotta be on your toes, Faraday." 

Yes, on his toes. He'd received that warning before. It hurt the arches of his feet and the stretch in his calves was unpleasant, but this was required of him. 

"It's a figure of speech." 

Combeferre was not very good at those. That's why he was being sent as Courfeyrac's assistant. He fell back onto his heels, then nodded in understanding. 

"Think it's clean enough?" Courfeyrac whined. His broom dropped to the floor with a clatter. Combeferre was trained not to outwardly react to the noise. It unsettled him, but it didn't play across his face. "I'm so bored." 

Combeferre shrugged. He was not to give into Courfeyrac's distractions, their handlers made that clear. In these situations, he set the example. Kneeling, he scrubbed until he could feel his pulse in his ears. Anything could be training, as long as he did it with his entire being. 

"It's so boring!" Courferyac complained. He complained instead of retrieving his broom and sweeping as he was directed. Did he need a rebuff? 

"You are lazy."

As if pierced with an arrow, Courfeyrac collapsed in a heap, palm pressed against his sternum. "You wound me." 

Combeferre would never. He was the third attempt at a partner, the others choosing to scavenge instead of deal with Courfeyrac's antics. The rebels were clear, his usefulness to Courfeyrac was what gave him shelter. 

Once the mission was complete, Courfeyrac would be in position, and Combeferre's location wouldn't matter, not to the rebels. Not to anyone. At the end of it all, it was better to die in the Games in support of a cause, than to starve in the streets without reason.

His sole priority was to protect Courfeyrac. 

"They make me do more than you," Courfeyrac lounged on his elbows as Combeferre cleaned. "You'll have to go before me, so I ought to at least get a rest." 

Blinking slowly behind his thick glasses, Combeferre surveyed the situation. He was the one working currently, and he doubted that somehow they had an uneven division of labor. Their handlers had them do certain tasks for a reason. There was order here, and Combeferre cherished it. 

"I just want to have a little fun, you know?" 

No, Combeferre did not. Courfeyrac was occasionally difficult to understand. All people could be enigmas of sorts, puzzles he'd twist in his mind as he laid on his bed roll, trying to get them slotted together, but he and Courfeyrac spent almost every moment breathing the same air. There was an hour, after the twenty minutes allotted for lunch, where Combeferre would be drilled on specializations that Courfeyrac need not concern himself; medicine in combat, how to shield Courfeyrac mid altercation, and the art of stealthily popping Nightlock in the event they were the final two. 

After all, Courfeyrac was to be the figurehead of the rebellion. He could not be marred in such a fashion. It was not endearing to kill the other tribute from the home district, even if there was no other option. If Courfeyrac was to be a symbol, God willing, he needed to be a hero, not a boy who committed fratricide. 

"Maybe they have sweets," Courfeyrac knocked Combeferre's shoulder. "They left the kitchen unguarded. Rookie mistake." 

Rookie mistake was tongue in cheek, referring to an action of a fool. It was a sports term, though Courfeyrac claimed sports never interested him. Combeferre scrubbed the same spot vigorously, if only to keep his heart rate elevated. 

"During breakfast, Otto's bread had jam." 

Combeferre trained his eyes on the floor. Their breakfast was plain bread and half of an apple. The Reaping was tomorrow, they didn't need a lush breakfast. "That's theft." 

"I'm suggesting a snack," Courfeyrac tapped his fingers against his leg frantically. "I'm hungry and bored, and we're going to have to spend the next two weeks bored out of our minds." 

Combeferre was rapidly losing interest in Courfeyrac's complaints. They'd be in the Capital and the Capital would feed them jam. There was no need to steal. 

"Clean the floor," Combererre said, plainly. He kept working, scrubbing the bits that were swept, then sweeping the rest as Courfeyrac relaxed. Courfeyrac needed him, clearly. If sent alone to the Games, he'd surely be caught unaware. 

The device rigged to the front door chimed. He reacted, "welcome," before his brain processed that it was just Otto and Bell, their handlers. He had a certain latency in processing, even when shown something mundane. 

Somehow that lag was humorous.

"We have a treat for you in the basement," Bell smiled, tucking her dark hair behind her ear.

"Is it a raise?" Courfeyrac smirked. 

Some of this gambit was to misinform the wires left in the inn, but a portion was Courfeyrac being a thorn in their side. Combeferre was supposed to participate, to the best of his ability.

"Am I fired?" That's all he could ever think to say. 

"You're not getting fired," Bell reassured him. 

It was far too late to find a replacement for him, anyways. Wordlessly, which was Combeferre's favorite way to do any task, he followed the group down the steps, close enough to step on Otto's shoes. 

He, of course, did not step on Otto's shoes. When he started training, within the first week when he was still delirious with hunger, that was a mistake he made. Corporal punishment ensured he would not make the same mistake twice. 

The basement was dimly lit, but that was purposeful. If the Capital had a live feed then the dark obfuscated their movements. Otto and Bell managed the eavesdropping, keeping the right amount of surveillance live to avoid suspicion.

"Surprise," Otto laughed when they reached the bottom of the stairs. "You two are cleaning the crawl space."

"Ugh," Courfeyrac's groan was convincing enough for the both. "Really?" 

"Yes," Bell forcefully stomped her foot, like a factory manager who was growing increasingly annoyed, "now be quiet about it."

The crawl space was not bugged. It had bugs, but they were of the natural variety. All secret debriefs happened in the crawl space. He watched Courfeyrac tremble with anticipation.

Courfeyrac led them past the broken tables and around the empty kegs, then dropped to crawl through the passage. Combeferre followed, careful to mind the ceiling. 

"A computer," Courfeyrac squealed. "I could make a bomb or start a fire!" 

Surely their handlers had not sent them to tinker, not the night before the Reaping. They had assigned tinkering time on Mondays, Wednesdays, and a double block on Saturdays. Combeferre wiggled forward and the crawl space gave way to a dim blue glow. A lone laptop sat on the dirt floor and they both sat in front of the screen. 

"Good, I was afraid the connection was faulty," the man on the computer said. 

He wore a crisp red shirt, the buttons down the middle were perfect circles and a sewn on name tag read J. Enjolras. Wisps of blonde hair peaked out under his black beret. Combeferre noted his rigid posture and mimicked him. 

"What the hell is this?" Courfeyrac hossed. careful to keep his voice down. "Who are you?" 

"The Chief," the man said. "I'm the point of contact for Lamarque on this mission. I'm here to give final guidance." 

"Final guidance?" Courfeyrac looked to Combeferre as he asked. Did he not know?

"Before the mission." 

"What mission?" Courfeyrac blinked. "I don't understand." 

The Chief frowned. "I was informed you both were making this sacrifice of your own volition." 

Combeferre nodded. "I'm assisting Courfeyrac." 

"Assisting?" Courfeyrac balked, louder than he ought to. "Like tomorrow?" 

"Are you not aware of the terms?" the Chief asked, brow furrowed. Combeferre avoided meeting eyes, even with the screen as a barrier.

"Apparently not!" 

Combeferre took a deep breath, then recited what Otto taught him. It was a mantra. "My duty is to accompany Courfeyrac to the Games, then ensure his victory." 

"Ensure my victory?" Courfeyrac's eyes watered, "she'll die!"

Was his death news to Courfeyrac? No one had told him that two people didn't return from the Games?

"She is aware of her sacrifice, and our new nation will be built upon her bravery." 

"You mean her martyrdom," Courfeyrac shook his head and the Chief smoothed his shirt.

This was uncomfortable. Combeferre sat on his hands to keep them still. They twitched, but if the movement wasn't visible, he wouldn't be reprimanded. 

"I love her," Courfeyrac whispered, "I love her and I've never told her before, and now I can't even be with her, because I'll be dead or she'll be dead. Fuck! Maybe we'll both be dead." 

That was news to Combeferre. Not the possibility that they'd both die, he'd thought about that frequently. Combeferre's feelings were not something they discussed. They seemed moot, so frivolous given the circumstances. Combeferre didn't even bother to explore if his feelings were simply misplaced adoration. Courfeyrac was so much better at every task than Combeferre, why would he love Combeferre? 

"This is unfortunate," the Chief sighed as Combeferre rocked back and forth. "You have my condolences."

Courfeyrac huffed, eyes red, "condolences? Your condolences? You've got to be fucking kidding!" Before the Chief could reply, Courfeyrac was crawling away. 

Combeferre was frozen. The Chief opened his mouth a few times, then stopped. 

Perhaps they lost their connection. 

"I know this is not ideal," the Chief's mouth barely moved as he spoke. "Believe me, if we had another option, Lamarque would have found it. This is our only hope. We need boots on the ground, someone to infiltrate the Victors and allow us to have direct communication. The Victor from 8 is an ally to our cause, and we need a channel of communication." 

Combeferre blinked, trying to remember who the Victor from 8 was. Had the Bishop mentioned them? Combeferre remembered one meal, when he was fourteen, where the Bishop went into detail about how much alcohol the new Victor drank during the party, the year the man from 2 killed every single tribute. 

That was one of the last things the Bishop had said to him before his accident, or it was the last thing of any note. The conversation steered off the rails, with the other children asking about the traps, and the song, and what to do if they were drafted. Combeferre sat at the far end of the table like always, eating his toast and observing. 

The Bishop rarely noticed him. 

"It's cruel to do this to children," the Chief added as Combeferre caught his hands flapping by his chest. "It's barbaric." 

"It is war," Combeferre said, forcing himself to be as still as a doll. 

The Bishop gave him a rag doll when he was small, a tattered thing with brown hair and pale skin to mirror his own and a muted grey dress. Someone had donated it, someone who felt sorry for the children in 3 no one else cared for. Vaguely, he remembered the Bishop taking black thread and stitching two circles around the doll's eyes, after he came home from school with thick glasses that slid off his face.

He couldn't remember a time before the Bishop, but he may have had a family that cared for him. There were shapes of people and tones of voice that haunted him, popping up like a virus when traveling families would check into the inn. If they died, there wasn't a funeral. His suspicion was they were alive, or they had been when the Bishop took him. 

He could remember the noise of other children in the house, his first house, a place with tall ceilings and doorknobs that glistened in the light. If they were his siblings, they didn't accompany him to the Bishop's house. He asked for the story of how he came to stay under his care, one time when he was twelve, and the Bishop couldn't remember his name. 

Which was just as well. He never asked again, because it was clearly unimportant. If he was still at dinner and did not disturb the girls that shared his room, he could exist undisturbed. He could have lived his whole life tucked away on his bunk reading one of the Bishop's books.

But the accident happened, then the groundswell of support poured from the people of 3. Most of the children found new homes, maybe all of them did, Combeferre wasn't particularly close with the others. He hadn't, but he was fourteen and fourteen was nearly grown. He was an old fourteen, independent. The people of 3 could sense that.

It wasn't like it mattered. In time, Combeferre found himself a place and he found a purpose. 

"Faraday?" the Chief asked.

What had Combeferre done wrong now? He was moving too much. He needed to be still. He wedged his hands back under his thighs then nodded. It was impossible to stop the rocking, as valiantly as he tried.

"Have you been pressured?" 

Combeferre shook his head, willing his traitorous body to just be still. This was important and he was simply being a distraction. 

"Does your family know?" the Chief asked. Combeferre wasn't sure how to respond to that, so he did not. "Do you have a family?"

He shrugged, because he had to somewhere have someone, didn't he? It seemed unlikely that every person he shared genetic material with was deceased. 

"Bell and Otto did not tell me we are marching an orphan to her grave," the Chief sighed, "the Victor from 8, we were engaged. We are engaged, I suppose, as it was never formally called off. He volunteered in my stead, out of love. Is that what you're doing for Maxwell?" 

Combeferre nodded because the correct answer was yes. He could tell by the way the question was worded. He hadn't known Courfeyrac when he agreed to Bell's proposition; he had known that the rain soaked his shoes and his stomach rumbled. He knew of Courfeyrac, but they were not acquainted.

Courfeyrac was well liked. He had always been charming, and though they were in different grades, Courfeyrac's antics enraptured the entire school. On more than one occasion he rigged the school bells, the ones on the intercom that marked the end and start of class, to belch instead of ding. 

"If I could make it different, I would," the Chief lamented. "If I could rebuild society from the bottom most rung, I would right this injustice." He seemed on the verge of a soliloquy, but regained his composure. "It's of the utmost importance this message gets to him and Courfeyrac is able to set up communications for direct instructions." 

Combeferre blinked, waiting for what was so important. 

"We need the Victors to lead. The people are agitated, but they have no direction. The riots in 8 and 9 have not been fruitful." Combeferre didn't know anything about the riots. "The people are rising for no clear goal. The Capital is weak, and if we could just gain control of those two territories, life for all of Panem could improve." 

Combeferre wondered for a moment if it would work; it seemed so fantastical. Then he remembered that his opinion on the matter was unimportant. He was cannon fodder, not a commander. If someone wanted his opinion, it was only for matters relating to himself. Was he capable of scaling a wall? Would he be able to wield a sword? Those were matters Combeferre could judge with some certainty. 

"Tell Grantaire," the Chief sighed, blue eyes brimming with tears. "Tell him I'm sorry and I love him, and I pray for his forgiveness and am grateful for his sacrifice." 

He nodded, because what else was he to do? 

"He'll be suspicious, and you'll be monitored, so tell him 'your church is a baby house made of blocks,' as a code. He will know what it means. And in the event that he has forgotten, ask him for a strawberry kolache. He will know that the message is authentic." 

"Your church is a baby house made of blocks," Combeferre repeated, even though it seemed almost nonsensical. Was it a figure of speech? A common turn of phrase from 8? 

"He will know," the Chief insisted. "Is there anything you want to ask me?" 

There wasn't a single thing Combeferre could think of when put on the spot, so he shook his head. 

"The nation is indebted to you," the Chief saluted him. "I will remember you for as long as I walk this earth."

"Why?" Combeferre adjusted his glasses, leaning forward to squint at the man's befuddled expression. 

"You are dying in service to your nation." When Combeferre didn't react to this common knowledge, the Chief continued, "are you aware that you will be dying?" 

He nodded. 

"Is death something you're seeking?" the Chief's face twisted. 

It never occurred to Combeferre that one's own death could be something a person wished. He shook his head. 

"And you're doing this of your own volition?" Combeferre nodded and the Chief kept talking. "Volition means you are using your free will alone to make this choice. No one is compelling you- making you."

"I am not stupid," Combeferre said on instinct. He knew the definitions of volition and compelling. Behind him Otto put a hand on his shoulder, and he jumped, then pulled away. He did not like to be touched, especially not by the likes of Otto and Bell. 

"I believe our chat is finished," Bell said. "I appreciate-"

"No, it is not," the Chief's mouth turned into a snarl. "Maxwell was not aware of the agreement." 

Otto's hand was back, like a vice grip. "Is Faraday also complaining?" No, he did not complain. Combeferre knew that complaining served no practical purpose. 

"It seems Faraday is under duress-" 

"This is simply how Faraday is," Otto squeezed his shoulder. "She's not emotive."

"Where did you find her?" the Chief demanded. 

"Lamarque cleared her," Belle explained. "Lamarque is aware of the situation."

"I doubt that," the Chief narrowed his eyes. "Where did you find her?"

"Around," Otto said, and that seemed like an odd way to describe their first meeting. Perhaps he forgot. 

Otto found Combeferre hiding from the rain beneath the plastic lid of the inn's dumpster. He, at first, threatened him with the authorities, told him he was trespassing, before realizing that Combeferre could be of assistance. The choice between the peacekeepers and assistance was easy enough. 

"We will have this discussion at a later date," the Chief snarled. His face softened as he addressed Combeferre, "thank you for your service, Faraday."

Combeferre recited the response the Bishop coached him to say in these situations, "you're welcome, sir."

Courfeyrac was hiding in their room, burrowed beneath the blankets on their bed roll when Combeferre finally left the crawlspace. His shoulders shook the pile of blankets as he cried, and he made no attempts to be quiet. 

"I thought you knew," Combeferre whispered, his voice suddenly hoarse.

He carefully stepped around Courfeyrac's body. Their bedroom was more of an abandoned closet, and they barely fit side by side. Physical contact while sleeping was a bonding experience, so Combeferre would be more intune with Courfeyrac's needs in the arena, or that's how Bell explained it to him. 

And Combeferre didn't hate having his body pressed against Courfeyrac, not like he detested contact from Otto and Bell, or worse, strangers. Courfeyrac gave tight hugs with even and firm pressure; they were comforting.

"You knew?" the mound of blankets shuddered. "You knew you're supposed to die for me?" 

Combeferre nodded, his tongue suddenly feeling too large for his mouth. He rocked from his toes to his heels as his hands patted his legs. It was more like hitting, but other people didn't bang on their legs when confronted with a problem, social or otherwise. Patting was acceptable.

So socially acceptable that even Courfeyrac patted at his legs.

Courfeyrac's dark nose stuck out from the blankets, then his brown eyes which were red and puffy. "Ferre, you're hurting yourself." 

It didn't hurt. It did not. Not in the slightest. He patted harder. 

"Combeferre," Courfeyrac's voice cracked. "Please stop." 

How? How was he supposed to stop? This was the only motion that was making him feel halfway alright. This whole surprise had been terrible. 

All surprises were dreadful. Combeferre much preferred when things stuck to the schedule. They should have had conditioning instead of the debrief. Conditioning consisted of lifting bags of flour for long periods of time, or dragging them around the basement. That was what was scheduled.

"I'm going to hold you," Courfeyrac's words were rushed. "I love you and I want to hold you. Please stop hitting yourself, because I love you so much and I wish we didn't have to go together." 

Why? Combeferre couldn't help but wonder. Why him? What amazing thing had Combeferre done to win Courfeyrac's love? 

A strong hug pressed Combeferre's arms rigid against his sides, with no wiggle room to continue his patting. Once Combeferre regained his senses, he nodded, his chin tucked against Courfeyrac's shoulder. He smelled like sweat, how they both usually smelled after their days. It was nice in a familiar way. 

"I'm not doing any more work today," Courfeyrac's jaw banged against Combeferre's shoulder as he spoke. "I don't think they'll say anything. What could they possibly say? Come do what we say right now or you'll be punished? I'm being punished; we're being punished." 

Combeferre didn't feel punished. This was how it was explained from the start.

"I love you," Courfeyrac was speaking into Combeferre's shirt, words quick and jumbled. "I love you, and I just thought that once we both won, then I'd tell you, then we'd be like Fantine and Felix? Remember?" 

"Fantine died," Combeferre gritted his teeth. 

He was not Fantine. Fantine was the Victor from 7 from the 37th Games and Felix won for 2 in the 36th. There were a plethora of reasons he was not Fantine, the least of which was he was a boy. 

For starters, Fantine hung herself on TV, during the parade for the 41st games. She climbed a lamppost like it was a tree and used her scarf before the peacekeepers could intervene. Combeferre was only 10, but the Bishop came home in tears, explaining that Fantine had an infant and Felix didn't take custody after her death. 

It seemed like Felix never particularly cared for Fantine. 

"Well, you wouldn't," Courfeyrac cried, rubbing snot onto Combeferre's clothing. "You will though, and I'll be alone!" 

"Everyone dies." 

No one lived forever. Not the children who avoid the Reaping. Not the Victors. And not even the president. All people were mortal; and Combeferre was not in the mood to raise his hackles with such banal information.

"I wish you didn't," Courfeyrac blubbered. 

Combeferre let him, even though it was immensely irritating. Wet patches were soaking the cotton of his shirt, making the material jostle against his skin. This particular shirt was not entirely comfortable when dry. Was love letting someone cry against his shoulder? Was he tolerating this out of a reluctance to engage socially in a difficult topic, or was he inconveniencing himself for Courfeyrac's comfort?

Courfeyrac loudly sucked snot back into his nose before asking, "can we lay down?"

Of course. He gave a nod, and then was surprised when Courfeyrac pulled them both down, with Combeferre on top of him like a blanket. Courfeyrac breathed against his ear but firmly held him in place. 

It was pleasurable, in an odd way. 

Combeferre's thigh pressed against Courfeyrac's groin, and he was stiff. Combeferre had never seen another boy aroused, and their own arousal did not result in any change in size, at least that they could gather. Perhaps there were some minute changes that he was not aware of when he touched himself in the shower. 

"Do you like kissing?" Courfeyrac's voice was watery. "Kissing me, I mean," a peel of somewhat hysterical laughter filled the room and Combeferre was uncertain if it came from himself or Courfeyrac. "I'm going to kiss you, is that alright?" 

Was it? 

Combeferre, as quickly as he could, tried to envision if they'd enjoy the act. Courfeyrac's lips were wet, and generally interacting with an object that was moist was unpleasant. The sweat on a glass of ice water was a nuisance he did not enjoy having to grip. Courfeyrac's lips didn't look quite as slick as a glass, but Combeferre couldn't be certain he'd enjoy it. 

He enjoyed eating liquids, though. Soup had a suitable mouth feel, even when his lips touched the spoon. He didn't recoil from that sort of encounter. In fact, soup on Tuesday was something to look forward to, especially after the crumbly mess that was Monday biscuits.

"Is it alright?" Courfeyrac's eyes had far more liquid than his lips. "Can you answer? I need an answer." 

"I don't know," Combeferre explained as he pressed his lips together. That sensation was acceptable. It was neutral, but maybe so was kissing. "I'd like to try." 

It was more like soup than condensation, Combeferre found. Well, it was like neither, with Courfeyrac sitting up slightly to press his lips into Combeferre's, but it was thoroughly enjoyable. 

"Yes," Combeferre sat up, which shifted his thigh against Courfeyrac's crotch. 

In fact, Combeferre thought kissing was worth doing again, so he leaned back down, pressing their bodies together. When their lips brushed again, Courfeyrac's muscles tensed, as if he was trying to jerk away. 

Did Courfeyrac not agree? 

Combeferre sat up completely, until he was kneeling with one knee slotted against Courfeyrac's legs. Courfeyrac made a shallow noise, akin to a moan of pain and writhed a little, his face darkening. 

"I didn't mean to do that!" Courferyac babbled, sitting up himself. "I swear! That's not a problem I have, but your leg, and the kiss, and everything. And I don't do that, usually. Not that I do this a lot, but I-" 

"I like kissing," Combeferre clarified, before Courfeyrac's train of thought went completely off the tracks. "Though I think I just like kissing you." 

Something wet leached through Combeferre's trousers at the knee, and he shifted, to investigate. Courfeyrac made another wounded sound, covering his face with the crook of his elbow. Whatever the liquid was, the point of origin seemed to be Courfeyrac. 

"You've wet the bed before," Combeferre said, giving Courfeyrac a quizzical look. "It's a bladder problem or your urethra." 

"Please don't talk about my urethra or the time I pissed in my sleep when you first started training. I just forgot to go to the bathroom before bed, because I got distracted." 

It was true to form for Courfeyrac to have a distraction problem. Combeferre smiled at him, then nodded. There was not enough urine for it to be a distraction problem, not when Combeferre's knee was only the slightest bit damp. But that was Courfeyrac's embarrassed face, with his eyes covered, so Combeferre did not press it. 

"I'm just gonna shower, okay? Then we can lay back in bed. We're not training anymore, we're done," Courfeyrac scrambled up, getting to his hands and knees, then nearly bumping foreheads with Combeferre. The wet spot was exclusively at the front of his pants and did not snake down his legs as it was expected. 

The spot beneath him was not wet, either. 

The gears in Combeferre's mind turned slowly as they surveyed the situation. He pondered if Courfeyrac had a medical concern that'd be a detriment in the games, but decided that accidental urination was innocuous enough, short term. He'd leave a note for Otto and Bell, so they knew to get the issue resolved.

"I am so sorry," Courfeyrac jostled Combeferre from his thoughts. "I am, I won't, we can try again tomorrow, if you want. Or not. I don't usually-"

Something about Courfeyrac's uncomfortable squirm as he stood in the doorway helped Combeferre reach his conclusion for what was actually wrong. Suddenly it all made sense. Flooded with the relief of knowing he would not have to write a note to Otto and Bell, along with the satisfaction of piecing together something that was previously confusing, Combeferre said, "you ejaculated." 

"Can we never talk about this again? Oh my God. Like, this didn't happen," Courfeyrac picked at his scalp, one of his classic manifestations of nervousness. "Please, Ferre. It's humiliating." 

"Why?" Combeferre furrowed his brow as Courfeyrac collapsed onto their bedroom, head in Combeferre's lap. 

"Because," he whined. 

Combeferre, unsure of where to put his hands, placed them palm down on the floor. "I thought ejaculating signified the quality of the action." 

Courfeyrac turned his head to look into Combeferre's eyes, which was incredibly sneaky and made Combeferre feel prickly. He did not say anything when Combeferre chose instead to look at Courfeyrac's plain white shirt. He was in his pajamas, even though they had not had dinner. Were they skipping dinner as well as training? 

"I love you, Ferre," Courfeyrac sighed. "Too much." 

Combeferre wasn't sure he loved Courfeyrac at all, let alone, too much, but he nodded, hoping it'd be taken as reassurance, not agreement.

They did not speak to Otto and Bell over breakfast. 

It wasn't unusual for Combeferre. He spoke when he was spoken to. His only unprompted communication involved Courfeyrac, and it was rare. Courfeyrac offered plenty of prompts. 

They had one slice of dry toast and half an apple on their plates. Otto and Bell had jam, and usually, this would be a point of contention. Courfeyrac would needle them about their excesses until either they each received a smidgen of jam, or they each were assigned extra chores as penance. 

For Courfeyrac to not want a taste of something sweet, he must have been in crisis.

"It will be fine," Otto spoke cryptically, as he always did in rooms with wires. 

"Go fuck yourself." 

So Courfeyrac was not so distraught he could not speak. His lips turned upwards and spittle flew across the table, raining on everyone's plate. It didn't particularly bother Combeferre. Surely there was spit in their kiss, even if it was closed mouth. It was not as if Courfeyrac's lips were bone dry. 

Combeferre took a bite of toast, paying it no mind. 

"Jitters before the Reaping are natural," Bell smiled. "You will be fine, Courfeyrac. You've never taken tesserae. There's no need to be so on edge." 

"I have friends," Courfeyrac growled as Combeferre chewed. "I have friends I care a lot about!"

Toast was too crunchy. Once, at the start, Combeferre asked if he could just have plain bread in the morning. Bell looked at him as if he asked her to personally cancel the Games, then stated that part of the agreement was eating what was served without complaint. Combeferre hadn't thought asking for soft bread instead of toast was a complaint, but he never mentioned the food again. 

"It can be a stressful time," Otto clenched his teeth and crumbs slid onto Combeferre's lap. Untoasted bread did not make as much of a mess. "Try to remain grounded." 

"I'd like to put you in the fucking ground," Courfeyrac huffed under his breath. "It's a stressful time," he mocked Otto's deep voice, then imitating Bell said, "don't be so on edge." 

Bell's face was too tight, "you two ought to be going."

They had time, at least according to the clock on the wall. Combeferre pointed to its face, taking his first bite of his half of the apple. He always ate his apple last, because it was the best flavor of breakfast. 

"You'd hate to be late," Otto's voice rumbled. "It's best to leave now." That was an threat, judging by the way Otto's fist rested on the table. 

"You gonna hit us before the Reaping?" Courfeyrac tucked into his breakfast, talking with his mouth full. "Are you? I knew you were a sack of shit, but this would really just be the bow that brought the whole thing together! Just do it! I fucking dare you!" 

Courfeyrac pushed his half finished plate away then stood up. Maybe Courfeyrac was ill; he always finished breakfast. 

"We're leaving," Courfeyrac huffed. 

Combeferre took another bite of apple, one without the skin, and pointed again to the clock. There was ample time to get to the square, it was barely a twenty minute walk, and they had an hour before the Reaping. 

"I don't want to be around them!"

Oh, that made a great deal more sense. Combeferre nodded, swallowing. "I need my trinket." 

"You have a trinket?" Bell asked, brows furrowed. 

"A hay penny," Combeferre took one last bite, then rose to his feet, dusting off the crumbs that accumulated on his pants. 

"A what?" Otto glared. 

Otto frequently glared; it was central to his personality. Now, because Otto felt the need to engage, Combeferre would have to explain pre Dark Days coins to his handler. Otto would be obligated to pretend to look interested, even though he certainly didn't care. 

"A hay penny, commonly referred to as a half penny. It was a denomination of coin from before Panem. This particular hay penny was minted in a place called Philadelphia. Minting is the process of creating a coin, and this coin was created in 1822, from when we used the Dark Days calendar. I found a collection of coins in the Bishop's things. His father collected them, which was a typical hobby for the time period. He told me I could keep one, since I am well behaved and showed an interest. It's copper and I enjoy rubbing my fingers over the wreath. It has a nice texture." 

The Bishop had an affinity for things before Panem. He predated the country, and lived through the end of the fighting of the Dark Days, and he went to the Hunger Games when they were simply sent in boxcars. Sometimes Combeferre, when he was young, too young for the Reaping, would bring him an item, wordlessly thrust it into the Bishop's hands, and then the Bishop would explain that object's history. 

"That is the most I have ever heard you say at one time," Bell remarked as Combeferre climbed the stairs. 

"You never ask me about anything interesting," Combeferre called down.

His hay penny was under his pillow, where he left it. He slid it into his pocket, rubbing the beveled edge. The coin was cool to the touch, but it'd warm in his palm. Metal was a conductor. 

"You could speak to us without being asked," Otto scoffed as Combeferre took the stairs carefully. He did not need to sprain his ankle before the Games. That would not help the mission. 

Combeferre shrugged, looking at his feet. His shoes were tied and he wouldn't trip, not if he paid attention. He reached the landing unharmed. 

No one said goodbye. 

Combeferre didn't mind. He liked quiet walks into the heart of town. It reminded him of going in solitude to school from the Bishop's house. Walking allowed time to think which, on occasion, was enjoyable.

Sometimes not having time to think was prefered. His life was simpler when all his time was regimented and clear goals were in place. He could manage on his own, of course. They would have booted him from the program if he was so inept that he couldn't sit with his thoughts. 

The Games would be a lot of unstructured time, but in the company of Courfeyrac. Most things in Courfeyrac's company were enjoyable. And he could always give himself structure. Self imposed structure worked as well as any other. 

"Can we hold hands?" Courfeyrac asked as their shoes beat against the concrete. "Just until we get to our spots. I won't make you hold hands after that." 

Combeferre didn't need to be compelled into hand holding. There were just simple parameters: do not interlace fingers, occasionally break apart to wipe sweat on their trousers, and do not use Combeferre's hand as a handle. If Combeferre needed to be led somewhere, it was never appropriate to yank at his arm. 

His extended hand was the invitation. 

Courfeyrac knew what Combeferre disliked and he did not interlace their fingers, nor did he yank. He squeezed tightly, which was excellent. Combeferre reciprocated. 

They did not speak as the streets filled with people. They simply clutched each other, occasionally pausing to dry their palms, then continued. 

Combeferre never liked the chatter of the crowd. All of the sounds muddled together, making it impossible to distinguish any individual conversation. The Games would not be like this, not for prolonged periods. 

He watched a tape of every Game in record history, and only the bloodbath was this raucous. That would be over in less than five minutes, and he and Courfeyrac were instructed to race in the opposite direction. Tributes from 3 did not go to the Cornucopia. The Bishop, in his Game, did not even bother. 

"Can I kiss you again?" Courfeyrac asked. 

They were surrounded by people, presumably some of them who previously enjoyed Courfeyrac's company before he withdrew from classes. The aftermath of their last kiss embarrassed him, and Courfeyrac did not respond well to public humiliation. 

"Did you dislike it?" Courfeyrac patted his hands on his legs and his right leg bounced. "You said you liked it, right? We don't have to, but if you want to then I want to." 

"If you ejaculate-" 

They were kissing before Combeferre could finish. One of Courfeyrac's hands combed through Combeferre's short hair, which was acceptable, he supposed, and the other grabbed his lower back, pressing him closer. Unsure where to place his own hands, Combeferre let his arms dangle.

"That's not like a regular thing," Courfeyrac sheepishly explained. "Like, I don't usually do that." 

Statistically speaking Courfeyrac ejaculated in his pants fifty percent of the time they kissed, but Combeferre kept it to himself. Kissing was nice, and Courfeyrac seemed to stop kissing when he was embarrassed. 

"I love you," Courfeyrac's long eyelashes brushed against his skin. It was distracting, but Combeferre patted his legs and nodded. 

Combeferre blended into the sea of people waiting for the Reaping. There was an anxious energy, which was typical. The group undulated and pulsed at times, whispering, laughing and groaning among themselves. They didn't know that Courfeyrac and Combeferre would play this year. 

When the peacekeeper came on stage, the crowd stilled. It did not calm, as all that energy seemed to buzz under the surface, waiting for a chance to escape. But the crowd wasn't visibly agitated, which was enough for the peacekeeper. 

"To represent District 3 in the 48th annual Hunger Games, in honor of the females'" the peacekeeper placed his hand among thousands of pieces of paper. 

How could the peacekeeper be certain to pull his name? Was there some slight of hand? Was every scrap of paper Faraday Combeferre? Did they look at the papers after the Reaping? Would they be found out? 

If it was shown that the Reaping was tampered with, Combeferre would play dumb. He'd just in front of the men from the Capital, surrounded by Peacekeepers, and stare blankly. No one would suspect him, because no one really believed he was capable of anything. 

"Faraday Combeferre," the peacekeeper announced. 

The crowd did not grow markedly more agitated, which was a good sign. Last years Reaping ended in bloodshed, and the extra peacekeeper presence hung around until Galen Joly rolled in for his victory tour. 

He was actually rolling, since one of the shark muttations ripped his leg off. He sat as tall as he could in his wheelchair, but they didn't adjust the podiums, so his soft voice was mostly lost to the crowd. It was almost nonsensical to have him in that chair, since Combeferre was certain he could make a prosthetic that would easily attach to what remained of his leg. The book he read curled up on the cot the Bishop allowed him had explained how to make a functional knee joint, and it seemed simple enough. 

He walked toward the stage. Otto and Bell told him to look surprised, but it'd show that he was faking. It was easier to just go on stage with his expression as it normally was. No one would think too much of it. 

The crowd was larger from his vantage point on stage. It made him queasy to look at that many people at one time, so he stared at his feet. There was a hole in the sole near the arch of his foot on the left shoe. It let in water, but fixing it was not a priority. He wouldn't even have to wear these shoes again.

"And to represent District 3, in honor of the males," the peacekeeper went through the same song and dance, even though it'd be Courfeyrac. 

Combeferre fidgeted on stage, rocking back and forth in anticipation. Courfeyrac would come on stage, then they'd sit next to each other on the train and eat sweets and perhaps kiss. 

"Maxwell Courfeault." 

That was an odd way to pronounce Courfeyrac's name. Combeferre tapped the flesh on his thighs as he waited for Courfeyrac. This uncomfortable part would be over soon, then they'd be together. 

A boy who was not Courfeyrac made his way toward the stage. He had blonde hair and freckled arms, and he was not Courfeyrac. Combeferre patted his legs with a force that could reasonably be called hitting. That was not Courfeyrac.

Something had gone wrong, and now it was just Combeferre, and Combeferre didn't know how to hack a computer for communication to 13. He only knew how to grapple and strike with a dagger and throw a spear and scavenge for food and water and build shelter. The most he could do with electricity was finish a circuit or start a fire. Courfeyrac needed to win because he had all the information, and Combeferre didn't have any idea how to get a message back to The Chief from inside the Capital.

"Maxwell Courfeyrac! I volunteer!" The crowd parted so Courfeyrac could race toward the stage. Combeferre took a shaky breath, then nodded as they made brief eye contact. It'd be fine as long as Courfeyrac came. If they went to the Games together, then Courfeyrac would win. 

"No volunteers," the peacekeeper barked. 

Combeferre's muscles tensed. Those were the words that turned the last Reaping into a riot. No Courfeyrac, Combeferre gulped, watching as the crowd riled themselves up with chanting and shoving. 

"Combeferre you better fucking come back!" Courfeyrac screamed, near the front of the mob. 

"Go home!" Combeferre responded as loudly as he could. It'd be nonsensical for Courfeyrac to be trampled underneath the feet of District 3. The entire act of trying to rise up against a peacekeeper was senseless. They had weapons and they were unarmed. "Everyone go home!"

Courfeyrac chewed his lip, then nodded. He fought his way through the crowd, elbows out, until he was out of sight. No one else heeded Combeferre's warning, but why would they? Why would these strangers listen to him? 

Maxwell Courfeault pleaded with the crowd, begged. They did not listen, of course, but he couldn't have been older than fourteen. He lacked authority in his voice and he just sounded panicked. Clearly, Courfeault had not trained. 

No one had trained.

If there were no volunteers, Combeferre was the only tribute with any training at all. He smiled a little and his muscles relaxed. Winning would be easier if he wasn't pitted against the Careers. 

"Time to go," the peacekeeper ordered as the crowd continued to scream. 

Courfeault hesitated to follow, but Combeferre was intelligent enough to listen to the peacekeeper. Anything out of a peacekeeper's mouth was a command, and needed to be completed immediately. The Bishop took great pains explaining that to him. Anything a peacekeeper said, it was to be done immediately. 

The reward for climbing onto the train himself was not being touched. Courfeault was yanked inside, and he sniffled and cried in his seat. 

Combeferre was content just to eat sweets in silence. He did not gorge himself on the way to the Capital, but he ate a few pastries, all untoasted, and a handful of strawberries. 

The chairs were comfortable and something in Combeferre was almost relieved he wasn't playing with Courfeyrac. The plan was in shambles, but at least Courfeyrac was safe with Otto and Bell. 

Combeferre used the relative quiet and his newfound calm to create a new plan. A plan where he won alone.

Combeferre had a plan. It was a tentative plan he pieced together on the train as Courfeault cried to himself. The plan had holes, but it was a plan.

The plan was to observe the other tributes during training. He would memorize their weaknesses, then use that against them in the arena. If someone was particularly bad with hand to hand combat, he'd make sure to engage them when the time came. If a tribute did not have a solid grasp of what was poisonous and what was not, he'd leave Nightlock close to their things. 

He, of course, would underperform in training. If they didn't know his skills, they couldn't prepare to encounter him. If he purposely did poorly, then no one would target him either. It didn't make sense to waste energy hunting down weaklings who'd die from other forces in the arena. 

He settled on his excellent tentative plan as the train stopped. He was walked to the stylist with his head down. There was too much happening in the city, and trying to take it all in would only upset him. 

He didn't look up until after he was prepped for styling. 

Prepping meant a team of people scrubbed every inch of Combeferre, pulling away hair with hot wax, just so he could go fight. It didn’t make very much sense to him. He knew he was not a fan of having one set of strangers hands all over his body, and having three people touch him simultaneously was especially dreadful.

 

So dreadful that he could not find his words.

“Oh, your hair,” the stylist said, voice lilting like it was supposed to be a question. Did the people in the Capital not understand basic concepts like hair? “It’s too short for extensions,” the stylist tapped against the table as Combeferre sat up on the cot.

He wanted to say, yes, he indeed had hair, like the vast majority of humans throughout recorded history. But it was all just too much, so he sat there, patting his legs, even when the stylist tried to paint his nails.

The nail polish smelled dreadful, and after one particularly hard pat, the entire pot of red varnish spilled onto his leg and it stunk. The whole room had stunk before, like flowery soap and disinfectant, but now it also smelled like nail polish. 

He hated nail polish. One time the Bishop attempted to paint his nails, when he was small. He held Combeferre’s hands perfectly still and said this was what little girls in 3 did sometimes, for fun, and he wanted to make sure that Combeferre experienced all the things other children did. The Bishop got through one hand before Combeferre started acting out. 

Acting out as a child involved pulling his own hair and slapping his arms. It was a mess, with the nail polish in his hair that was too long and then on his bare arms. The Bishop put him in the bathtub, and then scrubbed as hard as the stylist's team did, and it hurt. 

At least the Bishop apologized for hurting Combeferre. The stylist did not seem to care.

“What happened to your hair?” the stylist asked. "Who cut it?"

Combeferre, in other circumstances, would have told the stylist. He would have said, “I dislike the sensation of my hair on my ears and the nape of my neck, so Courfeyrac cuts it with the kitchen scissors at the inn every Saturday after tinker time," but the lights were too bright and the smells mingled together until his stomach ached. He offered her a smile, like the Bishop taught him. People enjoyed being smiled at, especially when Combeferre did not have the energy to speak. 

“I don’t think I can straighten this.” 

Combeferre’s hair was already straight. He had straight black hair his entire life. He touched his hair, just to be certain it hadn’t changed. 

And it hadn’t. He still had straight hair, and he caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror to confirm it was still black.

“This one is not all here,” the stylist said, looking not at Combeferre but at the avox holding a silver tray. Combeferre assumed the shiny instruments arranged in neat lines were for cutting hair, but he wasn’t certain. He never had a haircut like this. In the past, the Bishop cut his hair, and then Courfeyrac took over once the Bishop was gone. 

Courfeyrac was the first person to ask what Combeferre wanted to do with his hair, and he explained how he wanted it not to touch his ears or his neck. Courfeyrac wore an expression that Combeferre couldn’t place, then agreed. 

“We're not bothering with make-up. Just put her in a dress and some flats; I doubt she has the coordination for heels.” 

Combeferre had heels. They were attached to his feet. He blinked a few times then realized the stylist was speaking about shoes. He was plenty coordinated with a weapon, why did he need to be elevated off the ground? It seemed superfluous. The Hunger Games were to find the strongest tribute, and his ability to walk in shoes that would pinch his toes with straps that would rub his ankles raw was not important.

He reminded himself how unimportant it was when a team stuffed him in a shimmery blue dress that reflected all the light in that awful room. The stylist called him attractive, in spite of it, when the bodice was laced, and Combeferre did not have the slightest idea what that meant. 

In a whirlwind he was placed in a carriage next to Maxwell Courfeault who was still not Maxwell Courfeyrac, though he was still crying. He wore a stiff blue jacket with white LEDs that blinked on and off at random intervals.

Did he want to be comforted? Combeferre stared for a few moments, trying to think of something suitably comforting. 

"You were always going to die," was what he settled on as the carriage started to move.

Facts were comforting. They grounded him in the current situation. No one lived forever, not even Maxwell Courfeault. He had to know that. People died in 3. Not often, but they did die. 

Three Reaping aged children died in the riot that broke out after last year's ceremony. One of the girls was 13, which was sad, but she would have died anyway.

Even if he wasn't Reaped, he still would have died. Maybe when he was old, but maybe before. He might have died in a riot today if he wasn't on stage. They were surely rioting in 3 today; that's why the Chief wanted Courfeyrac to get a line of communication, so they could effectively channel the riots into something productive. 

Courfeault rode in the carriage with his head in his hands, and Combeferre got the feeling he was just inconsolable. He was entitled to cry, if that was what he felt the situation called for. 

Combeferre kept his eyes closed, occasionally peeking through his eyelashes to see the illuminated Capital blitzing past him. It was a miserable experience, so he decided eyes shut was the best possible way to handle the parade. 

In fact, he kept his eyes closed until a peacekeeper ordered him down. Combeferre opened his eyes to interact with the peacekeeper, as the Bishop taught him. Peacekeeper interactions were the most important interactions he could have, and they required complete concentration. 

He rode in the elevator, which was too hot, and listened to the gears and pulleys whirl. That was a sound he could lose himself in, unlike the cheering of a crowd. Sometimes Courfeyrac would build something on Saturdays that made similar noises. 

Courfeyrac had a soft spot for impractical appliances. He designed a powered machine that weighed an apple, then would cleave it so it was in two even halfs within 5 grams of each other. Otto and Bell refused to use it, calling it frivolous engineering, but Combeferre saw with his own eyes that it worked perfectly. 

Courfeault kept sobbing, even as they entered their apartment and the peacekeeper locked them in. There was a lavish meal on the table with two place settings, with slabs of meat and piles of starches.

This was not the food from back home. 

Today, they'd be having peanut butter sandwiches and half an apple for dinner, along with an assortment of crackers. Combeferre only ate the crackers when he was especially hungry, but the flavor of the sandwich was always delightful. The texture was atrocious, especially the way peanut butter clung to the roof of his mouth, but if he tore the sandwich into pieces beforehand, then he could swallow each bite whole like a snake. Nothing could get stuck in his teeth if he refused to chew.

Because there was no supervision, just Courfeualt sniffling on the couch, Combeferre loaded a plate with every item he'd be willing to try. With his mountain of food, he stalked off to one of the empty bedrooms. 

He stripped out of his dress, leaving it wadded up at the back of the mostly empty closet, and changed into the sleek black uniform they'd been provided. Thankfully, it was not itchy, or too tight, or anything at all like that terrible dress. 

He ate perched on his bed, deciding he liked mashed potatoes and disliked the uncut brown meat. The green beans were pleasant, not too chewy, as were the dinner rolls. He ate three entire bites of meat that must have been beef, just because the Bishop, in his youth, would hound him to eat a balanced meal.

The Bishop taught him the food pyramid before he even said a word, explaining that they ate chicken so he could grow strong. He hated chicken by itself but he ate some every meal, just so the Bishop wouldn't bring out the chart. The bottom of the pyramid was bread, and that made bread the most important. He ought to be allowed as much bread as he wished, judging by the literature. 

Courfeyrac would have agreed. Courfeyrac would have simply taken the entire cake they'd been left, seeing the act of eating it in one sitting as some perverse challenge. He, of course, would have offered a slice to Combeferre, because he offered some of everything to Combeferre. 

Did he do that out of love? Combeferre wasn't sure. He never shared anything with Otto and Bell, but they were dreadful. Combeferre never had the opportunity to see if this was how Courfeyrac engaged with all or his peers. They were a year apart in school, before they both withdrew, and Courfeyrac spent most of his time surrounded by a gaggle of giggling admirers. 

Did Courfeyrac think Combeferre was one of those admirers? Surely not, he rarely laughed, for starters. The girls at school had laughed over anything, even when Courfeyrac was not funny. The boys, too, but it was different. The boys never rested their hands on Courfeyrac's shoulders as they spoke. 

It was all too confusing. He needed to rest, and in the morning, he could continue his thoughts over breakfast. 

Being in bed alone was odd, but he placed a few pillows in his arms and pretended they were Courfeyrac. That did the trick, and he went right to sleep.

There was a moment at dawn where Combeferre was disoriented enough to wonder where Courfeyrac was. The other side of his bed roll was simply pillows, and Courfeyrac waking on his own was unheard of. Waking Courfeyrac was an ordeal that required removal of blankets and occasionally water. Sometimes it required threats of eating his breakfast or reminders of the time he urinated in bed. 

But this morning Courfeyrac was gone. 

Because Courfeyrac did not go to the Capital.

Combeferre was in bed alone. 

But he had a plan. It was still in beta, but it was a functioning plan. He was going to spy on the other tributes, remember their weaknesses, win the Hunger Games with the combination of his observation and knowledge from training, then go home to 3 and have Courfeyrac handle the rest. Really, everything after winning was unclear, but he had time to piece it together. 

He scrubbed his face with the Capital facewash, which had a scent reminiscent of canned tropical fruit. If he had thought about it, which he clearly did not, he would have sniffed the bottle before lathering up his face. Combeferre never would have willingly put this smell so close to his nose. He splashed water to try to wash the pineapple or guava or some other odd fruit off his skin, but it didn't seem to help.

Combeferre was unsure what sort of fruit it was. Combeferre liked apples, and on occasion, raisins.

He rinsed five times, in hopes it'd work, then wiped his face with a fresh towel. He still smelled like the fruit the Bishop would give the other children, for a treat, even though there was nothing enjoyable about it. The texture was somehow spongy and stringy, and the smell was absolutely overpowering. 

The Bishop always allowed him to just eat an apple instead, even though apples were not special. They had an entire tree behind the Bishop's house that grew so many apples that Combeferre could have as many as he wanted in a single day. 

He only ever wanted three; one with breakfast, lunch and dinner. 

Maybe when he won, he'd put an apple tree by his home and he and Courfeyrac could eat them. They would still half them, of course, simply because it was a cleaner eating experience than trying to bite a sphere, but they could each have two halves whenever they desired apples. 

Combeferre could also use the money he'd receive to buy Courfeyrac sweets. Courfeyrac liked every type of sweet he'd ever seen in his life, so bringing home a pie from the baker every evening would be a nice routine. Combeferre didn't like pie, not with it's slimy insides and crumbly crust, but Courfeyrac would be thrilled. 

He'd be so thrilled that he'd do that small laugh he did when surprised, then clap his hands four times softly. He'd smile, blink excessively, then help himself to what would arguably be too much pie, even for someone who liked pie. The stomach ache that would follow would teach Courfeyrac nothing, and they'd repeat the scene the next night.

Oddly, Combeferre wanted to experience this every night. 

It was perplexing, because Courfeyrac could be so irritating, especially when handling any kind of mild discomfort. He'd whine and whimper, kicking his feet in his chair, then bat his lashes at Combeferre and ask him to fix it. How could Combeferre fix it? He was not an antacid; he was a person. When Combeferre got the medicine, Courfeyrac acted so amazed, like he temporarily forgot any sort of medication existed. 

He still smelled tropical. It was disgusting and somehow made him homesick for Courfeyrac. Would everything make him miss his friend? They were friends, right? 

He had always assumed they were some sort of work acquaintance. If Combeferre hadn't been picked by Otto and Bell, then they never would have spoken. If they were friends, it was only because they spent so much time in close quarters. When something, or someone, in this case, stayed in your environment long enough it was natural to anticipate it being there. 

And maybe that somehow translated into love. 

He did not know much about love. 

Combeferre was not even sure what books he'd have to acquire to gain that knowledge. 

Maybe someone in the Capital could help him. They liked frivolous things here. Also, they seemed to enjoy cruelness for cruelness sake, and Courfeyrac confessing his love did feel somewhat cruel. Maybe someone here would be able to make something of the situation. 

Combeferre decided, after brushing his teeth with toothpaste that was too spicy to be comfortable on his gums even after he gargled water, that he'd just have a piece of dry toast and a half an apple for breakfast. Maybe the change in routine was what was causing his newfound personal crisis. If he could control what was happening next, then he'd feel more like himself.

Courfeault did not eat the other half of the apple, even when it was offered to him. He barely looked at Combeferre, and when he did mistakenly glance his way as Combeferre sliced his apple clean in two, he spontaneously burst into tears.

It wasn't that Combeferre had even been spectacular at making friends, because that was a lie. Outside of the Bishops table and training, he took his meals alone. If the Bishop was away on Capital business, whatever that meant, Combeferre tended to be shunted to a small table in the breakfast nook, where he ate alone and in silence. Not being liked was not a new phenomenon, but causing someone to burst into tears on sight was something he never experienced. 

He hoped that after the Games he never experienced it again.

The toast was too crunchy and the crumbs made a mess on his training uniform. He ate the toast first, then ate his apple. The apple was the best taste of breakfast, so he ate it last. 

Then he sat ramrod straight in his chair, waiting for direction. 

He thought of multiplication time tables, then his mind wandered to Courfeyrac's hand in his hair. He hadn't pulled, which was excellent. Combeferre did not like his hair pulled, but of course Courfeyrac knew that from the haircuts. Courfeyrac was good with raw data when it suited him. 

And for some reason, data about Combeferre suited him. 

It was perplexing. It had no practical application. Knowledge of Combeferre was not needed beyond combat and survival skills weaknesses. Knowing Combeferre did not like having his hair pulled did not win the Game, nor did it help rally the people behind him when the time came for rebellion.

He was so clearly not the one to call anyone to arms, so he hadn't the slightest idea how Courfeyrac would pull that off when the time came. That was not his purview. His one job was to get Courfeyrac to the end of the Games. And that was modified, due to the situation, so he was just going to get to the end of this game himself, then help Courfeyrac as a mentor. 

Combeferre could use this game as a practice round in observing other tribute's weaknesses. Then, when the time came for Courfeyrac to play, he would be an expert at observing tributes in training. 

It was a near perfect plan, especially for something he came up with alone. Most of his life he was simply told what to do. Sometimes the Bishop gave him options, but it was always a binary choice. Combeferre could play with his doll or Combeferre could read a book. There was no freeform fill in the blank style answer. 

Combeferre preferred his books to his doll, but on occasion he'd read with the doll on his lap. The Bishop would coo when he walked in to see Combeferre sounding out the words in some tome about electronics manufacturing or supply chain economics.

Somewhere there was a picture of him leafing through a medical textbook that the Bishop purchased on a lark, when Combeferre was seven or eight, and he was going through the names of bones and pointing to where they'd be on his doll. If his doll had bones, which she did not. She was made of fabric, and the buttons on her eyes were the only part of her that were even the slightest bit hard. 

She would have been incompatible with life, if she was, in fact, alive. 

An avox wheeled in a silver cart that smelled like cooked chicken, and Combeferre pulled himself out of his thoughts. Was it already time for lunch? Why hadn't they started training? He patted his legs as the avox rearranged the dishes on the table, taking away the old food and exchanging it all for new items. 

For lunch Combeferre at home would have had a sandwich with five slices of deli style ham, three pickles that he would have picked off, an entire carrot, an assortment of crackers, and a glass of milk. He always ate the crackers with lunch, simply because he was hungry. They ran drills in the morning, and it could get exhausting. 

He wondered if he could have that same lunch here. If he could keep things as similar as possible, that would bring him comfort. Not as much as being with Courfeyrac, as the original plan stated, but some comfort nonetheless. 

The avox placed an entire chicken on the table, surrounded by cooked carrots and potatoes. That was not a sandwich and even with the dinner rolls, he did not think he could make anything with a meaningful resemblance. Dinner rolls were too soft, while sandwich bread was dense. 

Perhaps if he smashed a roll flat with his palm, placed slices of chicken on it, then added another flattened roll, it could be passable. He preferred cooked carrots to raw carrots and potatoes to crackers, so he could simply pretend that Otto and Bell were accommodating to his tastes. 

That was a very funny joke. It was so funny that he laughed to himself as Courfeault joined him at the table. 

Courfeault just stared, open mouthed, before asking the avox, "when do we train?" 

The avox did not respond. They couldn't, not without a tongue. 

Technically, they could have responded. They could have known a sign language or invented a new verbal language that did not require tongue annunciation. Combeferre was not privy to any of those matters, so the avox could not respond to an open ended question, not in a meaningful way.

They didn't even seem to attempt. Their red ribbons surrounding their head did not so much as flutter as they retreated from the apartment with the old food.

"Maybe we won't have to play," Courfeault said as he pulled an entire leg of the chicken. "Maybe they're cancelling." 

Could the Hunger Games even be cancelled? That wasn't possible. The country was poorly run according to Otto and Bell, but they weren't so inept that they'd cancel the Games. 

Combeferre made his not sandwich, choking down the chicken, then saved his carrots for last. Carrots were a sweet vegetable, but not too sweet. They were like apples, but they were carrots. 

Combeferre sat at the table long after he'd finished eating, wondering what other produce was like apples and carrots. There was a perfect flavor range where something was not too sweet but also not too bitter. 

Apples and carrots, of course, and sandwich bread, those were all excellent. Chicken soup was nice and savory, usually with pieces of cooked carrot which was welcome. Oranges were too tart, as was spinach; the consistency of both was terrible. Raisins were almost too sweet, but he enjoyed them. 

He sat at the table daydreaming about food until the avox came back, this time with a roast. 

Thinking on his feet, Combeferre grabbed a few slices of chicken for dinner. Chicken was less offensive than roast. Roast was inedible. He grabbed potatoes and carrots, too, seeing as they were brought a salad. They had fresh rolls, and Combeferre could eat the same meal twice in a row without issue. 

And he did. Courfeault cried, taking slices of roast beef. He was a loud crier, but the Bishop taught Combeferre not to announce when someone in the room was crying. That made people feel, in the Bishop's words, lousy. 

The makeshift sandwich was better cold. So were the potatoes, though the carrots were worse. Combeferre pushed his room temperature carrots around the plate as the door to the apartment opened. 

"Hi, I'm Galen Joly, last year's Victor from District 9?" 

Joly wheeled into the room, pushed by Graft Feuilly from 11. They wore nice Capital clothes and Joly's pants where his leg should have been was flat. 

"And I'm Graft Feuilly," he paused, "you are?" 

"Faraday Combeferre," he said, his eyes drifting to the pile of books on Joly's lap. "From 3." 

"It'd be weird if you were from another District and in this apartment," Feuilly sighed as he tried to make eye contact. 

Combeferre absolutely did not want to do that, so he looked at the forest green couch in the center of the room. It seemed soft with a texture that from far away resembled moss.

"It's fine! This is fine!"

When Combeferre looked back up momentarily, he saw Joly's wide smile that showed no teeth. Feuilly's hands squeezed his shoulder. 

"We're going to do this every year?" Joly asked, a grin still on his face. "This is forever?" 

"Nothing is forever," Combeferre turned back to his carrots. No one asked Combeferre directly, so he wasn't sure why he said anything. 

"Nothing is forever," Feuilly whispered. "Holy fuck." 

"Every day it makes more sense," Joly was still smiling when Combeferre stole a look over his shoulder. "You, and Bahorel, and Grantaire, and Jehan. Every day your behavior, it just makes sense." 

Joly smiled an awfully lot. He smiled during his Victory tour, though he spoke so quickly Combeferre could hardly understand what he was saying, not with the way he was panting into the microphone. 

Combeferre's brain processed Joly's words on a delay. He mentioned Grantaire. The Chief left a message for Grantaire, and Combeferre was supposed to pass it along. What was the message? 

He wasn't sure. He'd spent so long thinking about Courfeyrac and reformulating his plan, that he forgot the code words. He remembered something about churches and babies, then strawberries.

"Tell Grantaire," Combeferre flinched as he made eye contact with Jolu. "Baby church strawberry colic. Love you, miss you, sorry." 

That was a summary, wasn't it? 

Joly nodded, still smiling. Clearly, he understood. Smiles were for reassurance.

"Well," Feuilly cleared his throat, "we brought books." 

Combeferre could see that.

Feuilly dug around the books in Joly's lap. He walked into the apartment, three books in his arms, leaving the rest on Joly. He laid the three books out face up, and Combeferre examined the covers. There was a book on flower identification, something on foraging, and then a big almanac on bugs. They were all hardback, and all seemed to be in color. 

"So we're doing training differently this year," Feuilly did not smile. "This year you each get two and a half hours alone with all the Victors. For security purposes, you won't ever be in the gym with another tribute. But we'll be there to help, for the duration of your training." 

There went Combeferre's latest plan. He patted his thighs underneath the table, and lost himself in the rhythmic thudding for a few moments. 

"But it's okay!" Joly shouted. "We shouldn't hurt ourselves, alright? Let's not do that! Why don't you pick a book to read while you wait for your turn?"

"Pick one," Feuilly said, tapping the books on the table. More books rested with Joly, but they didn't seem to be options. "They're all color coded. If the name has a green dot, then it's edible, if it has a red dot, it's poisonous." 

Combeferre knew everything valuable to know about flowers, foraging, and bugs. Otto and Bell trained him with flashcards. When he got an answer wrong, he was punished, and that punishment was an incentive to learn quickly. He wouldn't make the same mistake twice, because he disliked the ruler.

"Why don't you just pick your favorite to look at!" Joly's breathing was fast again, like during the end of his speech. 

"Bugs," Combeferre said, touching the cover of the book. "We have moths in 3. Moths are nocturnal. Tineola bisselliea, also known as the clothing moth, does not feed in the moth form, because their proboscis atrophies during metamorphosis."

"Okay, bugs," Feuilly nodded, putting the other two books back on Joly's lap. "They'll have a peacekeeper come get you when it's your turn." 

"You can tell us more about your favorite bugs!" Joly wheezed, sounding like a fan from an overheated computer. "Or anything! We can just talk about anything!" 

No one ever asked Combeferre about insects, so he'd have to tell Joly. He found it odd that Joly wanted to talk instead of train, but he nodded, flipping open the book. Iridescent beetles were spectacular, what a wonderful page to turn to. They looked like ladies jewelry, but they weren't functionally useless. They served a purpose in an ecosystem and shimmered under the sunlight. 

Feuilly dropped a book titled Survival 101 onto the table and the noise made Combeferre jump in his seat.

"This is for the other tribute. I see he's in bed. Have a good night." 

"Bye Faraday Combeferre," Joly now sounded like one of Courfeyrac's frivilous machines, about to explode during a test run.

"It helps if you don't get attached," Feuilly whispered as he pushed Joly out of the door. 

"She doesn't get an exemption? Really?" Joly's voice faded as the door closed. 

Joly was odd, which was saying something coming from Combeferre. Hopefully, Grantaire got his message, and he could make something of it. Combeferre was never good at double entendres, but maybe that was Grantaire's specialization. 

Combeferre had done his job, or at least a portion of it. He could reformulate his plan after an evening in bed reading about the life cycle of the Three Lined Potato Beetle.

A peacekeeper came for Combeferre at 2:15 on Friday, the day before the games. He knew not to ask questions, so he followed wordlessly. 

The elevator still sounded like Courfeyrac, and it made his chest ache. Maybe it was the negative g-force as they descended from 3 to 1 that caused the feeling of falling, but also, he was beginning to suspect he just missed Courfeyrac. Last night, at dinner, he tried the peach cobbler, hoping he'd enjoy it and he could tell Courfeyrac about the experience at a later date. 

It was terrible, like eating a sugary slug, but with stringy fibers that held it together. As soon as he took a bite into the meat of the peach, he spit it all back onto the plate. The Bishop would have called that bad manners, but it was a dreadful experience. 

He had always hated peaches, so in hindsight it was a stupid idea. 

The lights in the gym were too bright and it smelled like the pile of Courfeyrac and Combeferre's dirty clothes on Thursday, the day before the wash. It should have been quiet, but the supervisors were chatting amongst themselves.

They all thought the boy from 4 seemed promising, as did the girl from 10. He tried to make out more of their conversation, but then he was being addressed.

"You have the good fortune of being last," Valjean said, leaning his weight against a sword dug into the floor. 

"Good fortune," Grantaire rolled his eyes and laughed, and Combeferre did not get the joke. 

Also he noticed Grantaire's eyes, the whites of them, were yellow. He seemed to be having liver issues, even though he never looked that way while on television. Combeferre was not close enough to the stage during his Victory tour, and when Grantaire visited the Bishop in his home, Combeferre hid in his bunk. 

"This is Faraday Combeferre," Joly smiled from his wheelchair. "She borrowed my bug identification book." 

The Victors were five strangers he'd only seen on the television and they were flanked by a peacekeeper in full regalia. 

"Told you not to get attached," Feuilly rubbed two fingers on the bridge of his nose. "You're going to be heart broken." 

"How do you not get attached? How do you meet someone and not care?" 

"Morphling helps," Grantaire laughed. He dug in his pocket, then held a closed hand out to Joly. 

"Prolonged morphling use causes liver failure," Combeferre recited. He'd read that in a textbook. 

"Yes, it does," Valjean said, frowning. 

Combeferre knew a lot about Valjean. Valjean was the Bishop's favorite. 

"You used to have a morphling abuse problem," Combeferre nodded. "You went to the hospital. You and the Bishop used to talk on the telephone." 

Valjean paled as the rest of the Victors turned to look at him. The peacekeeper angled themselves to watch their conversation. Was that not something he was supposed to say? The Bishop mentioned that sometimes recovery had a stigma, once over the phone when he was drinking a few glasses of wine. Combeferre had been stuck at the table, reluctant to eat his orange while stuck in his high chair. 

He must have been three or four. The Bishop stopped trying to force him to eat things fairly early in his life. But most of Combeferre's first memories were him in front of a plate of food he was unwilling to eat, with the Bishop trying to patiently prod him. 

"The Bishop said you made a full recovery." 

"You had a morphling problem?" Bahorel laughed, his mouth open. "Explains why you're so fucking stuffy." 

"Can we train her?" Valjean was not smiling. "We can talk about my checkered past later." 

"I don't need to train," Combeferre rocked on his feet. "Joly said we could talk about bugs."

"Did the Bishop tell our business to everyone in 3?" Grantaire placed something in his mouth as he shook his head. His Adam's apple bobbed as he swallowed. 

"You need to train," Valjean put his hands on his hips with his feet braced wide. It was an odd look. 

"She's not going to wi-" 

Valjean cut Bahorel off. "Shush. She is just like Jehan. The Bishop had many Jehan's." 

Combeferre didn't know anyone named Jehan, but he doubted he was just like Jehan. He never met someone who was just like someone else, and for a short period of time a pair of identical twins lived at the Bishop's home. They were very similar, but they were not just like each other. 

"Did you live with the Bishop for long?" Valjean asked as he turned to grab a sword from the weaponry rack. 

"Until he died." Combeferre did not like to think about how the Bishop died. He would have liked to stay at the Bishop's house.

"Did he teach you anything?" Valjean asked, looking somewhat hopeful as he placed a sword in Combeferre's grip. "How long did you stay with him?' 

"I was small," Combeferre blinked. "He taught me a lot." The Bishop taught him how to judge people's faces with handmade flashcards, and patiently taught him how to read before Combeferre could talk. Really, everything he knew could be traced back to the Bishop. 

Valjean pointed at a training dummy, and Combeferre stared. What was he supposed to do? He wasn't sure, so he stood still. 

"Just like Jehan, what's that even supposed to mean." Grantaire shook his head. "She can't even swing a sword." 

Oh, he could swing a sword. Was that what they wanted? He braced the weapon correctly in his hands, then rushed forward, and struck the dummy through the stomach. He twisted the sword once he made contact with the foam material, then pulled it out with a flourish. When he was done, he let the sword hang one handed at his side. 

Bahorel cheered. 

Joly made a sound like the fan attached to the inn's refrigerator did right before it stopped working all together. 

"That was badass," Bahorel clapped, grinning. "That old man taught you that?" 

What old man? Combeferre blinked, then turned to Valjean, staring at the floor. It was sleek. He patted his legs, not too aggressively, as he tried to figure out what Bahorel wanted him to say. 

"Jolts?" Valjean asked as Combeferre kept trying to understand. 

Jolts was what the Bishop called him. The Bishop couldn't remember his name, so he just called him Jolts. No one else ever called him Jolts, not his teachers, not even the other children. 

"My name is Faraday Combeferre," he said. "The Bishop called me Jolts. He told me Jolts was a nickname." 

"Oh, Jolts," Valjean sighed. "The Bishop spoke of you fondly." 

"Really?" Combeferre stilled his hands. "Me?" 

"Yes," Valjean tapped his foot. His shoes were brown leather and reflected the fluorescent lights. "He loved you." 

The Bishop loved him? 

"Jolts?" Feuilly asked, leaning against Joly's chair. 

"She wouldn't let him touch her and she never sat still," Valjean explained. "Hence the name." 

"We should call Jehan Psycho, then. They would have taken their teeth to that thing's throat," Grantaire laughed, pointing to the dummy. Did he want Combeferre to attack with his teeth? He could. 

The sword clattered to the ground. He walked toward the dummy, then nestled his face in the things neck. The firm material pressed against his nose as he opened his mouth. Combeferre took a chunk of foam between his teeth and tore into it. 

It tasted like plastic, so he spat it out as fast as he could. The neck of the dummy beneath the grey faux skin was a sickly yellow, reminiscent of Grantaire's jaundice.

"What the fuck?" Feuilly asked. 

"Joly said we could talk about bugs," Combeferre explained, walking to pick the sword off the floor. 

"When you win," Valjean explained as Combeferre frowned. That was not what Joly said. 

Why couldn't anything ever just go to plan? 

"Her interview," Grantaire groaned. "If we want her to win, we need to prep her for the interview. Do we want her to win?" 

It never occurred to him that the Victors wouldn't want him to win. How could he convince them? 

"I want her to win," Valjean sighed. "The Bishop would have moved mountains for her." Really? Moving mountains was impossible. No human would be capable of moving all that earth, even if they were strong. 

"Christ knows I owe you a favor," Grantaire laughed. He sat down right on the floor, legs sprawled in front of him. "Jolts, can you read?" 

"We gave her a color coded book," Joly leaned forward in his wheelchair. 

"My name is Combeferre," he said. He looked around the room before deciding he wanted to join Grantaire on the floor. 

"Yeah, but Jolts makes you seem quirky instead of like a freak," Grantaire explained. "The Capital will eat that shit up with a spoon." 

"Why would anyone eat feces?" Combeferre wrinkled his nose in disgust. 

"We get one fucking tribute who can fight worth a fuck, and we're going to spend the next two hours prepping her for a dumb fucking speech?" Bahorel slumped forward before he joined them on the floor. "This year has been fucking balls." 

"They're all balls," Feuilly said, taking a place next to Bahorel so close their shoulders were touching.

"What does that mean?" Combeferre asked. When no one answered, she clarified. "When you call something fucking balls. What does that mean?" 

"You are in the presence of a lady," Valjean groaned. "Watch your language." 

"I'm uh," Combeferre paused, looking at the three Victors on the ground. He'd never told anyone, was he going to tell them first? "Um?" 

"You can talk to us!" Joly exclaimed, rocking back and forth in his chair ever so slightly, grabbing his arms. "Anything you need to tell us, you can!" He was smiling, but rocking and arm holding usually meant something was wrong with other people. The Bishop taught him that.

"Rocking means Joly's upset," Combeferre pointed to Joly. "That's body language." 

"Body language," Feuilly repeated, turning to look at Joly. 

"Did I get it wrong?" Combeferre asked, shoving his hand in his pocket to play with his hay penny. "It is hard for me to tell," he admitted, looking at the empty space between them, "is Joly not upset? Sometimes I rock when I'm happy, but they're big movements, not small." 

"I'm just pretending not to be upset! I am very upset though!" Joly was still smiling. Combeferre never smiled when he was upset. Smiling was a happy facial expression. 

"So you can't read?" Grantaire asked as Combeferre patted his thighs. 

Why would he ask that? "I can read," Combeferre said, adjusting his glasses and looking at his own shoes. They pinched his toes a little, but that's how most shoes felt.

"Can you read a prompter?" What was a prompter? He probably could, unless a prompter was some sort of cryptographic language. "How good are you at reading?" 

"How good?" Combeferre did not understand this line of questioning. He never was asked to rate his reading skills back in 3. 

"Like Feuilly can read four letter words, but he stammers, and Joly can't read at all-" 

"Do you think I am dumb?" Combeferre straightened his back. They did. They thought he was stupid, just like his teachers did whenever he moved up a grade. He was very intelligent. 

"I'm not dumb," Joly hung his head in his chair. "I'm just good at other things." 

"Yeah, I'm good at practical shit," Feuilly frowned. "I'm not fucking stupid, we just don't usually go to school in 11. Idiots don't win the fucking Games." 

Combeferre said something wrong. They were upset with him. He pinched the fat on his thigh as he tried to identify what he did wrong. 

"I mean, Grantaire is an idiot," Bahorel laughed. 

"I am an idiot," Grantaire nodded. "And she's not trying to take swipes at you, Feu." 

"What are swipes?" Combeferre asked. 

"Swipes," Valjean leaned against the peacekeeper, which was odd. "Swipes are like," he hummed, "saying something to hurt someone else's feelings." 

"How did I hurt Feuilly's feelings?" Combeferre asked, looking around the room. They were all staring at him. 

"Feuilly gets his feelings hurt for no reason," Bahorel kept laughing. Bahorel always laughed. "Don't worry about it." Combeferre was worried about it. 

"Fuck off, Bahorel," Feuilly shouted, shoving his shoulder. "I just get called stupid a lot, and I'm not stupid." 

"I'm also not stupid," Combeferre agreed. 

"Look, we came into your apartment and you were talking nonsense at the kitchen table," Feuilly snorted. "What was it? Tell Grantaire strawberry colic? That's insane. You understand that, right?" 

Combeferre looked toward the group of supervisors chatting and drinking on the balcony. They were not supposed to hear his message. It was a secret message for Grantaire. He looked next at Grantaire, who was staring, wide eyed. 

"Baby church," Joly threaded his fingers through his short hair. "Then love you, miss you, sorry. I just didn't understand." 

"Kolache?" Grantaire curled his hands into fists. That sounded correct. Combeferre nodded shallowly. "Okay, okay. Cool. Cool. Great. Cool." 

"Great, cool," Combeferre kept nodding, mimicking Grantaire. "Can we talk about bugs? Joly said I could tell him more about moths." 

"I'm gonna," Grantaire covered his face with his hands. He sighed, "let me write you an interview. Whatever I write, there will be a monitor in the back, follow it exactly." 

"How are you gonna get Thenardier to allow that?" Bahorel raised his eyebrows, then wiggled them. "She's good at fighting, there's no need to finesse her interview." 

"She's going to bomb," Grantaire shook his head as he got off the ground. "I owe Valjean and the Bishop a favor, so I'm repaying it. Repay your favor to the Bishop by making sure she can grapple." 

"I can grapple," Combeferre said. 

"I don't owe the Bishop shit," Bahorel snarled, showing his teeth. "What did he do for me?" 

"Faked an injury so you didn't get assassinated," the peacekeeper said, voice disguised by whatever piece of mechanical engineering rested inside the helmet. "But Feuilly should teach her to grapple. The biggest tribute is about Feuilly's size." 

"Please don't make me grapple a girl," Feuilly's jaw was clenched shut. 

"You're as queer as a three sided coin," Bahorel laughed and Feuilly sucked in a breath like he was punched in the stomach. 

"Bahorel, be nice," Joly said, inching his wheelchair forward. He placed a hand on Feuilly's shoulder, then rubbed it back and forth. 

"I'll wrestle her," Bahorel finally said, standing up and shoving Feuilly a little in the process. "She's not more than 5' 7" and thin. I'll take it easy on her." 

"That would defeat the purpose of training," Combeferre said, also rising to his feet. "I know how to grapple." 

"Look, everyone thinks they know how to grapple," Bahorel huffed as they both walked toward a blue mat. "You don't." 

"She might," Valjean said as the rest of the Victors, save Grantaire who was sequestered in a corner with a pad of paper and a pen. "I taught the Bishop, and he very well may have taught her."

In one swift movement, Bahorel tackled him to the ground. He was strong, wedging his forearm below Combeferre's jaw and pushing upward. "I told you, you don't-" 

Combeferre took that moment to knee him as hard as he could in the groin. Bahorel stopped talking, and instead let out a groan. Feuilly laughed somewhere behind them as Combeferre turned them over, and place the heel of his palm over Bahorel's nose. 

"If we were in the Games, I'd drive my hand upward. I won't do that now, because I would break your nose. The cartilage in your nose would become dislodged, and," Combeferre moved his hands to Bahorel's throat as tears crowded the corners of his eyes, "then I'd strangle you with my hands. You would die, then the Capital would retrieve your corpse from the arena."

"She hit me in the nuts!" Bahorel complained as Combeferre straddled his stomach. When he was pushed back further on Bahorel' s hips, he realized that Bahorel's member was erect.

"Some mantis and spider species engage in sexual cannibalism," Combeferre furrowed his brow as he thought. "Typically the females engage in cannibalism only because of a nutritional deficit. I never considered that the males of those species may have developed an innate reaction to that sort of dominance." 

Combeferre climbed off of Bahorel, then dusted off his pants. Feuilly stared at Bahorel, then glanced at Combeferre, before breaking into a very wide smile and howling with laughter.

"Holy shit, dude? Are you hard?" Feuilly shouted, turning to Grantaire. "Bahorel's got a stiffy because Jolts explained how she'd kill him." 

"We all knew Bahorel was a pervert," Grantaire chuckled a few times, then went back to writing. "How old are you, kid?" 

Who was kid? Combeferre glanced around the room, before he deduced that he was kid. "Seventeen." 

"Feuilly and I are seventeen, too," Joly smiled. It seemed like all Joly ever did was smile.

"Good, good," Grantaire hummed, scribbling onto his paper. "Anyone you like back in 3?" 

"Like?" Combeferre shifted his weight. 

"Do you have a romantic interest? Boyfriend? Girlfriend? Significant other?" 

"I think," Combeferre hunched his shoulders. "It's confusing." 

"You can talk to us! Everything is so confusing here!" Joly's voice was very high and his smile was starting to look like it hurt.

"Summarize the relationship," Grantaire sighed, getting up and placing his hand back in his pocket. He went to Joly, then gave him a pill. "You're going to have a full blown panic attack again. Just take one. One will not hurt you." 

Feuilly whispered something in Joly's ear, then took the pill from Joly's hand. He retrieved a dagger, then split the pill in two in the floor. 

"Germs!" Joly wheezed. "That's the floor! I'll get sick!" 

Feuilly made a show of wiping half of the pill on his shirt, then gave that half to Joly and the other half to Grantaire. 

"Wiping it off won't-" Combeferre was cut off with a cough and a scowl from Grantaire before he could finish. 

"Thank you," Joly's smile faltered as he took the medicine. "Just half of one, that's okay." 

"When you're like that," Valjean eyed Grantaire before nodding. "Especially when we're on Capital business." 

"Jolts," Grantaire said, pen in his hand. It felt strange to have that name resurface. "I need to make you likeable. Tell me about the confusing whatever with the whoever." 

Combeferre could do that. He needed to make sure not to mention the training or the rebels or 13 in front of the people from the Capital. 

"Well, there's a boy in 3. And after the Bishop died, I worked at an inn with him. I cleaned and stuff," the and stuff was training. "And the day before the Reaping he kissed me, and then he ejaculated in his pants, and then he ran off. Before the Reaping, we kissed again, but that time he did not ejaculate." 

The entire room laughed. 

"He said he loved me, and I didn't say it back, because I didn't know if I loved him, but I think I do. I miss him like I miss the Bishop, but differently. He doesn't know I'm a boy, so I should probably tell him that first." 

The room went quiet again. Did Combeferre say something strange? Normally silence didn't bother him, but he found he preferred their laughter. 

"Goddamn it!" Bahorel shouted, punching the blue mat below him. "I'm not fucking gay!"

"You are though," Feuilly snickered. "You're so fucking gay. Queer as a three sided coin." 

"It's not like Jolts was hard!" Bahorel held his head in his hands. "He wasn't! I didn't, like, feel up his dick!" 

"I don't have a penis," Combeferre said softly. 

"Whatever you're about to say Bahorel," Grantaire warned as Combeferre sat back on the ground, "don't." 

"I was just gonna say," Bahorel started and Feuilly socked him in the stomach. He doubled over, and Feuilly shook his head. "Fuck! I was gonna say like Jehan! Goddamn I already got hit in the balls and then got horny from it; don't attack a man while he's down!" 

Who was Jehan? And why did Feuilly feel the need to strike unprovoked? 

"Yeah," Grantaire exhaled, though he grinned, "like Jehan. I just thought you were going to say something terrible because you're you." 

"My fingers don't feel real," Joly whispered, holding them in front of his face and bending them ever so slightly. 

"You want to tell this boy on TV?" Grantaire asked. When Combeferre didn't say anything, Grantaire said, "Jolts, in your interview, do you want to tell this boy?" 

"I don't tell people I'm a boy because talking to people is exhausting and they usually don't like me anyways," Combeferre watched Feuilly help Bahorel off the floor, then whisper something in his ear. Bahorel turned bright red and nodded. 

"So we won't tell the Capital you're a boy," Grantaire scribbled something on his paper. "It's easier that way. But I'm talking about a love confession. I can word this interview so you tell the boy from 3 you love him." 

"Oh, okay," Combeferre nodded. That seemed like a good enough idea. "I just think I love him, though." 

"Sometimes it's okay to bend the truth," Valjean called from against the wall, "especially when it's a Capital speech." 

Combeferre didn't know what that was supposed to mean, but he was tired of talking. Back home Courfeyrac was the only person who ever spoke that much to him, and Courfeyrac knew to expect long lulls where Combeferre simply kept to himself. 

"Make sure he knows how to start a fire, find shelter, tie ropes," Grantaire waved a hand in the air. "Use the rest of the time to put Jolts through all the paces. Have him showcase whatever he's best with for the graded portion." 

"They all watched him attack Bahorel," Feuilly laughed, his hand around Bahorel's waist. "He's going to get a good score." 

"No shit," Bahorel pressed his side against Feuilly, then sneakily seemed to touch Feuilly's behind. 

"Just make sure there are no glaring gaps in his knowledge." 

There weren't, and he showed them that. He threw a dagger and hit a dummy in the chest, then struck a target close to the center with an arrow. He tied a series of knots, climbed a rope, then a rope ladder. He started a fire, identified a few species of flower and berry, then wrestled Feuilly and was nearly pinned, but managed to break away before he was trapped. 

"Back of the auditorium," Grantaire said as the Victors started to file out of the gym, "what you are supposed to say will be on a monitor. Read it verbatim. Do you know what that means?" 

"Word for word," Combeferre nodded. "It's Latin." 

"Yep," Grantaire ruffled Combeferre's hair. "It'll be a long game, I imagine. Best of luck, and we'll send you what you need." 

"Rubber gloves!" Combeferre exclaimed as the group, save for Joly who was asleep, just stared. "If I can have electrician's gloves I won't get electrocuted by setting traps." 

"Rubber gloves," Grantaire wrote on his paper as he said it. "I'll get you some if the arena has electricity." 

They all wished him good luck, and Bahorel went to hug, and Valjean quickly said, "he does not like being touched." 

"I don't like soft touch," Combeferre explained as Bahorel held his arms open. 

"I can hug hard," Bahorel said standing still. 

"Please don't ejaculate in your pants and get my outfit dirty." 

The laugh that came from the peacekeeper was digitized and made Combeferre jump. He'd never heard a peacekeeper laugh. Bahorel hugged him tightly, knocking the wind out of his lungs, and Combeferre just stood there. They were still for a few moments, embracing, and then Bahorel let go and waved. 

"That was a very good hug!" Combeferre rocked back and forth on his feet and his hands flapped at his chest. "Thank you!" 

"You're welcome, dude," Bahorel smiled. "Do good." 

Do good was not proper English, or Combeferre was fairly certain it wasn't. He nodded anyway, because it would have taken a lot of energy to correct him. 

He spent his ten minute showcase wailing on a dummy with a mace. It was unrecognizable by the time he was finished.

Combeferre felt good about doing what he was told. The Victors told him to impress the judges, and he had. He could feel it as he walked out of the room, sweat dripping down the small of his back. 

"I need this one," Bahorel said to the peacekeeper leading him outside, toward his apartment. "I'll make sure Jolt here gets to styling. Capital business, you know." 

Bahorel put on this voice with the peacekeeper, mimicking an accent that Combeferre only heard on TV. The peacekeeper turned to Combeferre, then to Bahorel, before shrugging. 

That was all it took for Bahorel to whisk him away into 2's apartment. It was remarkably easy for the Victors to do as they pleased.

It wasn't as sterile as 3's. Pictures hung on the wall, mostly of Bahorel and Grantaire in dark rooms with bright lights in the background. Sometimes they had glasses pressed to their lips and in others Bahorel slung an arm around Grantaire's shoulders. One picture had Feuilly and Bahorel check to check, both smiling. 

"Grantaire thinks you need to practice for your interview," Bahorel rolled his eyes as he pointed toward a bedroom. "He's giving Thenardier head so he'll put your stuff up on the prompter, but just in case." 

"What's head?" Combeferre asked as he opened the bedroom door. A small child sat on the bed, legs crossed, head cast down.

"I don't know, but I'm not supposed to talk about it," the child twisted, looking up from a textbook about knot tying. A skinny rope sat on the pages, twisted in knots, as their copper orange hair laid in a braid. "I'm Jehan." 

"I'm like you?" Combeferre said, searching Jehan's features to try to ascertain their similarities. They were both white, but that seemed to be the end of it. 

"Bahorel said I could judge your speech," Jehan smiled.

"Jehan is not a boy or a girl," Bahorel said, closing the door.

"But I'm a boy," Combeferre looked at a space behind the headboard as Jehan stared directly into his eyes.

This room felt lived in. A hand drawn picture was tacked up to the wall; one clearly done by a child with seven stick people holding hands. In the middle of the picture was a short figure with an orange braid holding hands with a wide man who had brown hair and a tall lanky man with black hair so erratic it almost seemed to be a mistake. 

After a few more moments, it became clear it was Jehan and the Victors. Feuilly was so close to Bahorel their shoulders were touching and the blonde boy who must have been Joly was standing with a cane. Combeferre couldn't place the stout tan man at the end holding Valjean's hand. The background was a collage of flowers and hearts and a messy script at the top read 'I love you, Feuilly and Bahorel!' 

"Are you a tribute?" Combeferre kept his eyes trained on the picture. 

"Not until next year," Jehan frowned. "Grantaire and I made a deal so I could stay in the Capital instead of in 8 alone after Joly's game. 8 isn't safe and I have better odds in the Games than back home, according to Grantaire." 

"You're gonna win," Bahorel sighed. "Just study and you'll win."

Combeferre made that deal on his own accord. He couldn't imagine someone else making that decision for him. 

"Why won't he look at me?" 

"That's how Jolts is," Bahorel shrugged, "it's nothing personal." 

"Feels personal," Jehan muttered, fiddling with the rope. "No one likes me." 

"That's statistically unlikely," Combeferre shook his head as Jehan spoke. "It'd be an anomaly if not a single person liked you." That's what Combeferre told himself, anyway.

"I don't know what a homily is, but yeah, we like you, Jehan." 

"Sure," Jehan whispered, their fingers prying apart a tight knot. "Whatever you say." 

Bahorel sighed before addressing Combeferre. "Grantaire gave me an exact copy of what you're supposed to say. Okay?" Combeferre nodded as Jehan pouted with their book. "I'm gonna read what Mr. Thenardier is supposed to say, and you," he shoved a paper into Combeferre's hands, "read the part marked Jolts." 

Combeferre adjusted his glasses, and skimmed the paper. It was a lot of words, with his nickname highlighted in yellow at his parts. 

"I'm not good at this," Combeferre whispered as the words on the paper swam. 

"Reading?" Jehan asked, popping their head up. "I can read it for you." 

"Talking," Combeferre blinked in quick succession and stilled his breathing. "I'm not good at talking." 

"We got that," Bahorel nodded, holding his paper out. "That's why we're doing this. Grantaire didn't do this shit for me or Feuilly." 

"Feuilly's interview was really bad," Jehan giggled. "Feuilly isn't good at talking, either." 

"No, he's not," Bahorel smiled fondly. He wiggled his eyebrows, "his mouth is good for other things, though." 

"Like eating?" Combeferre asked, feeling his breathing slow to something manageable. 

Bahorel laughed, "like eating." 

"Bahorel says he's good at kissing, too," Jehan grinned, dropping their rope all together. "Bahorel and Feuilly kiss a lot. Sometimes I stay in this apartment when Grantaire has to go see people in the Capital and usually Feuilly sleeps in Bahorel's bed if Javert says it's okay. Joly and I have sleep overs in the living room, and my job is to bang on the door if Joly starts freaking out."

Bahorel glared at Jehan, and they went back to reading their book, rope in hand. "So Thenardier will introduce you first. He'll say," Bahorel changed his voice into something lipsy, reminiscent of the voice he used with the peacekeeper, "Welcome Faraday Combeferre from District 3." 

"And everyone will clap," Jehan clapped their hands as he narrated, "then you'll go on stage, and all the lights are too bright and the girl's shoes hurt and the dresses are itchy, and you sit." 

Combeferre frowned, but tried to mentally prepare himself.

"Show me the smile you give the audience as you go on stage," Bahorel said as both he and Jehan were laser focused on Combeferre. He showed his smile. 

"Not that," Jehan grimaced, shaking their head. "It looks scary." 

"I was smiling?" Combeferre tried again, glancing at Bahorel. "It's how I smile." 

"Cool, cool," Bahorel blinked, not smiling at all. "You're just not going to smile. Don't smile at all. You have resting bitch face, so just sell it like you're a badass." 

"Resting bitch face?" Combeferre asked, and Bahorel nodded. 

"Yeah. You just look very intense all the time. Javert has it, too." 

"If he just doesn't smile, he'll seem very tough, which is good. Sponsors will think he can win," Jehan agreed. 

"I can win," Combeferre said plainly. "I will." 

"Love to see some fucking confidence," Bahorel cheered before putting on his mock Thenardier voice. "Faraday, can I call you Faraday?" 

"My friends call me Jolts," Combeferre said, deadpan. 

"Jolts, what a charming nickname. A girl called Jolts in an outfit like that. Doesn't she just look stunning?" Bahorel pointed to Jehan who made crowd noise. "Absolutely magnificent." 

"You don't look too bad," Combeferre was clearly reading off a paper like he was called on in class. 

"Ravishing and charming," Bahorel gestured to Jehan again, who clapped. 

"You flatter me." 

Jehan giggled and Bahorel elbowed them in the ribs. "So Jolts, can I call you Jolts?" Combeferre's paper just said nod in all caps, so he did. "Why do they call you Jolts?" 

"I'm good with electricity," he wasn't. He was decent. It was a lie. He remembered Valjean said it was alright to lie. 

"Electricity!" Bahorel exclaimed, holding a limp wrist in front of himself. "Oh, how exciting! This will make for a fascinating game!" 

Bahorel pointed to Jehan who clapped, but very slowly as they made a face like they ate something sour. Was that look disgust? 

"Do you have any strategies?" Bahorel asked. 

"Yes, to win," the text said pause for laughter, so he did. Jehan filled the space with some very unenthusiastic hah hahs. "I know when to fight and when not to fight. Sometimes, it's not the time to fight, and the best thing is to hide, until the other tributes are weaker."

"Fascinating," Bahorel grinned. "Do you have anyone back home you'd like to see?"

Combeferre nodded, as the paper said, "there's a boy." 

"A boy?" Bahorel asked wide eyed. Jehan cooed, but this seemed heartfelt. Maybe Jehan was a good actor. "What's he like?" 

"Bold and brilliant," Combeferre found himself smiling, even though Bahorel told him not to. He tried to tamp it down. "I love him." 

Jehan cooed and clapped, and whispered something about love under their breath, before clapping harder. 

"Ah, young love," Bahorel sighed. "I remember the first time I fell in love." 

"It was with Feuilly," Jehan whispered, giggling. 

"Shut up, Jehan," Bahorel warned in his normal voice. He pretended to be Thenardier again, saying, "she was almost as spectacular as you. He's a lucky boy." 

"He is," Combeferre did not smile, because he was not supposed to. He patted his legs a little, just to do something. 

"Don't do that," Bahorel chastised. "Grantaire told me he was gonna fix that, but don't hit yourself on stage." 

Combeferre nodded, instead curling his hands into fists. 

"Do you miss him?" Bahorel asked as Thenardier. "Experiencing any homesickness?" 

Combeferre was, and he wanted to just say yes, more than he could ever express, but that wasn't what the paper said. "I look forward to a time when we can have breakfast together again." 

How did Grantaire know that? He hadn't told him. Jehan oohed and awwed, then threw themselves across Bahorel's lap,the back of their hand on their brow, like they were taking their own temperature. 

"I love him and he knows I'd do anything for him." 

Could Grantaire read minds? That wasn't a real thing, was it? Jehan clapped, looking up at Bahorel from below. 

"Anything?" Bahorel asked. 

"Anything," Combeferre's paper said, so that's what he said. "Anything he asks. He knows it." 

"It sounds like an intense relationship," Bahorel read. 

"I'm intense." 

Bahorel broke character and snorted, before going back on script. "You are. I mean, out here, in front of the nation, dressed like that. It sends a message." 

"Does it?" Combeferre asked, but he was supposed to. 

"You exude confidence." 

"You can tell me about that message in my victory interview."

Jehan made more noise, then Bahorel read, "Faraday 'Jolts' Combeferre from District 3!" 

"Then you walk off stage," Jehan said. "Everyone is gonna be yelling because Capital people will yell for absolutely anything."

"And you find me off stage," Bahorel said sternly. "I'm going to take you back to my apartment, and we are going to watch the rest of the interviews and the scores."

"I'll be here, too," Jehan smiled. "I'm staying in Bahorel's room on the floor because the boy from 8 tried to shank me when I went to the bathroom on the first night." 

Combeferre knew they were not allowed to hurt anyone before the Games. Why would that boy do that? There was a collection of pillows and blankets that looked very similar to Combeferre and Courfeyrac's bedroll next to the closet.

"Jehan broke his arm," Bahorel said with a shrug. 

"Grantaire pulled us apart, but he's for sure not winning now," Jehan smiled at Bahorel who nodded. "You're welcome."

"He probably would have made it to the final four, at least. Kid's 18 and sturdy, but there's not a whole lot you can do with your dominant arm broken." 

"Nope," Jehan laughed, looking back at their book. 

"We'll talk about the other tributes tonight," Bahorel said looking back at his paper. "Let's run it again before I take you to styling."

trigger warnings at the end, if you think you might need them.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


"You know how it is," Grantaire said, imitating a Capital accent. "Capital business." 

The stylist, who had said such odd things to Combeferre, pouted, but nodded. "And you're sure I can attach my name to it?" 

"Of course! Of course!" Grantaire kissed her on each cheek and once on the mouth. She blushed, then gave him a small smile. 

Bahorel stood behind Combeferre as Feuilly gave the stylist a feeble wave from inside the small room. Feuilly mouthed "Capital business," and frowned. 

"I don't know what they saw in you," the stylist said, putting a gentle hand on Combeferre's shoulder as she left. Combeferre hated that. "But styling a Victor is the easiest way to get your designs in all the boutiques." 

"I heard Jolts scored a ten," Bahorel boasted, pulling the stylist away from Combeferre, kissing her directly. "Call me," he said, slapping her behind as she left the room giggling. 

Combeferre didn't know they gave the scores out to the Victors before the broadcast. When would Bahorel have even found that out? Did they call when Combeferre wasn't paying attention?

Once she was out of ear shot, Feuilly scoffed, "call me?" 

"It's on brand," Bahorel laughed, his mouth opened as Grantaire held a tux jacket in his hands and a measuring tape in his mouth. "Sorry you're stuck as the guy who walks away midconversation for the rest of your life." 

"Grantaire got to reinvent himself," Feuilly complained. 

"When your fiance becomes persona non grata, then you too can change your image from hopeless romantic to the Game Maker's bitch." 

Bahorel kept laughing as Grantaire pointed to the raised cot in the middle of the room. "We're all the Game Maker's bitch," Bahorel snorted as Combeferre climbed to where he was supposed to be sitting. 

"Your fiance-" Combeferre started, and the room went completely silent. 

"Is presumed dead," Grantaire said, holding eye contact. He looked away, then toward the light in the middle of the room, touching his ear, "please don't ask me about him. It's a sensitive subject." 

Combeferre used four fingers to mimic a bug skittering down his thigh toward his knee. Grantaire cocked his head, and Combeferre did it again, forcing himself to hold eye contact. Finally, something on Grantaire's face changed, and he nodded. He touched his ear again, then copied Combeferre's sign. 

An ear touch was a simpler signal for a bug than an actual bug, he supposed. 

"So you're dressing him?" Bahorel asked, gesturing to the suit in Grantaire's hands.

"I'm gonna slapdash tailor this," Grantaire shook the black blazer as he spat the measuring tape onto the floor. "And then some makeup. Makeup is like painting, so it'll be fine." 

"Is Thenardier using the monitors?" Bahorel asked, lounging against the wall. 

"He and the Game Maker were," Grantaire made a face that, very curiously, looked just like Jehan's sour taste face, "convinced." 

"I'm helping to convince them at the after party," Feuilly groaned. "We're gonna make a champion, or some bullshit. My talent is boxing with Bahorel, not art shit," Feuilly said, grabbing a sleek, silver, electric clipper. "Grantaire wants me to even out your hair. Sound cool?" 

"You paint just fine, Feu," Bahorel said, softly, moving to put his hand on Feuilly's shoulder. "I see your stuff with Grantaire." 

"Hair," Feuilly shrugged off his touch. "Combeferre?" 

"I'm going to hate it," Combeferre said plainly. "Is it necessary?" 

"Is it necessary?" Feuilly snorted. "It looks like you lost a fight against a weedwacker."

That was a strange turn of phrase. He'd never lost a fight. "I'm not going to lose." 

"Dude," Bahorel slapped a hand on Combeferre's back, hard, "it's good we wrote you a speech." 

"I wrote the fucking speech," Grantaire said as Feuilly put a firm hand on Combeferre's shoulder to steady himself. Something buzzed near Combeferre's ear, and it tickled, but it did not hurt. 

He tried to pretend that he was somewhere else. He imagined himself in bed with Courfeyrac, kissing him. Courfeyrac's lips felt wonderful against his own. Lots of little bits of hair fell onto his uniform, but he pictured himself pressed against Courfeyrac.

"You did it," Feuilly said, pulling his hand away. 

"So, I don't know what the Bishop told you happened after you won," Grantaire explained, holding out a black pair of slacks and a black blazer. "But I'm not going to dance around it." 

He was going to have to dance? He groaned as he dusted off his shoulders. 

"When you win," Grantaire swallowed thickly, looking to Bahorel and then Feuilly, "there are expectations." 

"Expectations," Feuilly rolled his eyes, which meant he was annoyed. 

"You're gonna fuck, or they'll slaughter those closest to you," Bahorel said, tone flat. That must have been another euphemism. Combeferre cocked his head at Bahorel, clearly confused. "Probably us, too. I don't know about Joly. They don't have Joly doing anything yet, because that kid is a time bomb." 

"Fuck?" Combeferre asked as he turned to look at Feuilly behind him. Feuilly looked at the ground and did not acknowledge Combeferre's gaze. 

"Sexual intercourse," Bahorel said, bluntly. 

Oh. 

Combeferre furrowed his brow, but nodded. If that was what the mission required, he could do it. It wasn't worth anyone dying over. 

"I want to make you hot and butch," Grantaire said, holding up the jacket. "If you are desirable in this interview, it's easier for us to call sponsors. I can put a shirt underneath it, but I'd hate to have it be final two and it's the hot chick from 10, who will be dressed entirely in leather, and all the perverts decide they'd just rather fuck her." 

Feuilly glanced toward the door, then got up to shut the door. He took a seat on the floor, barricading them in the room. "I'm not a, uh, delicate dude," Feuilly rubbed his temples with his fingers, "and I'm not trying to, like, diminish your identity." 

"If you do, I'm taking a free hit to the gut," Bahorel said. 

Combeferre wasn't sure what Feuilly was talking about, but they seemed to strike each other often for people who shared a bed.

"It's just," Feuilly rolled his shoulders forward and hung his head. "There are no living female Victors, and regardless of what you wear, I just don't," Feuilly made the sour taste face as he shook his head. "Look, I just think it's going to fucking suck regardless of if we make you hot tonight, or if we send you in a potato sack." 

"It matters," Grantaire said, shrugging. "Whatever image we pick, that's your public image for the foreseeable future." 

Oh, he'd be stuck wearing this sort of thing. 

"No dresses." Combeferre said, looking at his uniform pants. "I hate them. They itch and I hate them." 

"Yeah, they put me in a dress last year, and it sucked," Feuilly laughed, though he didn't smile. Combeferre briefly wondered if that was a sexual thing. He looked to Feuilly, who gave no further explanation.

"I'm thinking tailored slacks," Grantaire said holding up the pants, "and a blazer I fit to your form." That didn't sound bad. Pants were always preferable. Combeferre nodded, feeling suddenly relieved. "Your call on if we put an undershirt beneath it or not." 

Combeferre blinked, then turned to Bahorel, whose cheeks were bright red. "Are you thinking of just a men's blazer and a pushup bra?" Bahorel asked. 

Very slowly Grantaire shook his head. 

"Holy fuck," Bahorel said beneath his breath. 

Grantaire touched his ear, then looked directly at Combeferre, face neutral. "I do not know your future goals," he enunciated every word. "I do not know if sex appeal helps you long term." 

Combeferre rubbed his hand over his mouth then tried to think of a way to word the mission that wasn't flagrantly obvious. He chewed his lip, then patted his legs, deep in thought. He needed to get Courfeyrac a victory. That was the original plan, and he needed to stick with it, to the best he could. He hesitated then asked, "would wearing what you suggest help me," he paused thoughtfully, then ran his fingers down his leg. They were being listened to. "Will I be able to call favors for other tributes from 3 more effectively?" 

"I am making you a wet dream," Grantaire said, not even a hint of a smile. "I imagine it will make asking for sponsors easier in the future."

"What's a wet dream?" Combeferre asked. Bahorel and Feuilly giggled, breaking the invisible tension in the room. Combeferre clarified, "I really do not know." 

"It's a sexual dream," Grantaire said, still not smiling at all. The yellows of his eyes fell to the floor. "Did," Grantaire touched his ear, "the Bishop warn you about this?" 

Combeferre took a long break to try to decide what Grantaire was asking. The Bishop of course never mentioned that he was prostituted through the Capital, but it did explain his finances. Otto and Bell didn't warn him, but perhaps they warned Courfeyrac. It felt like something Courfeyrac would have told him. 

Courfeyrac was not very good at hiding things, especially upsetting things, from Combeferre. It was like he did not even try. And Courfeyrac kept things from Otto and Bell all the time, so it was peculiar behavior.

"No one," he decided to say. "No one warned me about the sex." 

"Well, us either," Feuilly laughed, looking toward the ceiling. "Sort of feels like Grantaire purposely hid it from me so I'd be stuck in hell for the rest of my life, and then I'll die and go to real hell." 

"I thought we were past this," Bahorel said, sending Feuilly a glare as Grantaire softly ordered Combeferre to strip. 

Combeferre stood completely naked in the center of the room as Bahorel and Feuilly argued amongst themselves. He couldn't make their conversation into anything coherent, but the cadence of their voices were a nice distraction from Grantaire' s quick touches as he measured Combeferre's bare flesh. 

"You said that you were cleared," Bahorel dropped to the floor, then wrapped his arm around Feuilly's shoulder. "Should I be worried?" 

"You should be constantly worried about Feuilly," Grantaire said, mouth full of pins. 

"Okay, liver failure," Feuilly grumbled as Combeferre tried not to think about how exposed he was. He and Courfeyrac changed in different rooms, at Otto and Bell's insistence. 

Combeferre didn't think he'd mind being nude in front of Courfeyrac. Not that being like this in front of Grantaire, Feuilly, and Bahorel, was terrible. It was just foreign, but they were all nice enough to him. Really, they were the kindest people he met after Courfeyrac and the Bishop. 

And it was never fair to compare people to the Bishop, because there was a line among all of Combeferre's teachers that the Bishop deserved to be canonized. When Combeferre asked what that meant when he was 13, the Bishop smiled and shrugged. He mentioned something about sainthood, then said all people have a capacity for kindness.

"Okay," Grantaire said, measuring from the top of Combeferre's left shoulder to his wrist. "If you want to be a dick to me, I get it. I get it." He held his hands in the air, then wrapped the tape around the widest part of Combeferre's chest. It was deeply uncomfortable, but he just endured. "Lash out at me; I get it." 

"I get it," Bahorel mimicked Grantaire's voice. "Liver failure, like come on. You could die " 

"I'm aware," Grantaire said. "There's a reason I don't give you two any shit." Grantaire helped Combeferre into the slacks and slipped his arms through the sleeves of the jacket. 

"You should go to the hospital," Feuilly said as Combeferre fastened his pants. They were loose, but Grantaire was sticking picks into them. "Or talk to Valjean." 

"Valjean has voiced his concerns," Grantaire mumbled. "I'm not in liver failure." 

"You have jaundice," Combeferre said as the wrists of his suit jacket were hemmed upward. "Your eyes are yellow and they should not be." 

"Fan fucking tastic," Grantaire hissed under his breath, taking a step back to look at Combeferre. "Look," he said, stepping closer, "I can't even think about detox, or whatever Valjean wants me to do, until we get you through the Games." 

"I'd rather have you than him," Bahorel said unprompted. Combeferre watched Feuilly dig his elbow into Bahorel's ribs until he added, "no offense, Grantaire's my best bud. You've repaid your favor to the Bishop." 

"We will talk about this later," Grantaire said, brushing his mused hair off of his ear. "I swear Bahorel, we'll talk about it later." 

"After the Games?" Feuilly asked, scrubbing his face with the heels of his palms. "I can't handle you dying." 

Bahorel turned to Feuilly, then hugged him with both arms. "I swear to Panem," Bahorel rubbed Feuilly's back, "if you leave me alone with Valjean, Joly, and Jehan, I'll kill you." 

"I'll kill you," Grantaire laughed, before he set his face straight. "That's categorically the worst threat you could give him." The tag of the jacket bothered Combeferre, and he wiggled to try to get it to stop. "Jehan will be dead in a year, anyway. You'd be third wheel to Valjean and Javert." 

"Jehan might win," Feuilly covered his face again. "We're going to help." 

"Can you age them four years?" Grantaire snapped, ripping the jacket off of Combeferre's shoulders. "Because that'd be helpful." 

"Let's not talk about this," Bahorel said, pulling Feuilly into his lap. "One crisis at a time." 

"Pull the tag out?" Combeferre asked as Grantaire hastily sewed the sleeves of his blazer. "It bothers me." 

Grantaire nodded, then ripped it out with his teeth. The jacket was placed back on Combeferre's shoulders. Grantaire stepped back, then nodded. "Badass." 

"He looks fucking good," Feuilly grinned, pulling away ever so slightly from Bahorel's chest. His eyes were red rimmed, but no one mentioned it. 

It was very rude to announce that someone was crying, at least according to the Bishop. 

"Hands in your pockets," Bahorel ordered. Combeferre slouched forward and Bahorel hooted. "Hot damn. Keep them there when you sit to interview." 

Deep pockets on trousers were a very good way to hide his fidgeting. He had never even considered that an option.

"You know your speech?" Grantaire asked, putting blush on Combeferre's cheekbones.

"He's not gonna smile," Bahorel explained. "He can mean mug, and we're gonna do that." 

"Fine, fine," Grantaire nodded, blending something onto Combeferre's face. He pulled off Combeferre's glasses and placed them on a small tray. "Fine. Blink for me." 

Combeferre did, trying not to flinch as a wand of mascara came for his eye. He was successful, and Grantaire was careful not to rest his hands on Combeferre's body. More powders and creams were placed on his eyelids, and then his glasses were returned. 

"You're going to knock them dead," Grantaire said, adjusting the jacket so that a strip of bare flesh from his neck to the button of his pants was exposed. "Fuck leather, we have fucking cotton and a tailor from 8. You feel alright?" 

Combeferre nodded, even though he did not feel that way. This was part of the mission, and he needed to focus. At least the clothes were comfortable. 

"Careful with your arm movements," Grantaire explained, bending his elbows and pushing them back as an example. "Nipples on live broadcast would not be the worst scandal the Games ever experienced, but let's be careful." 

Combeferre tucked away a mental note to ask what the worst scandal was. 

"Just be cool," Bahorel said, pulling himself and Feuilly off the ground. "Be badass, and yourself, but the best version of yourself." 

"You can't do worse than me," Feuilly laughed. 

"I could," Combeferre shrugged. "I have a script."

"And I can write scripts," Grantaire waved him off as he pulled out a pair of black combat boots. "You've got this Combeferre." 

Grantaire laced them, but not too tight. Bahorel and Feuilly excused themselves, wishing him luck. Bahorel started to give him another hug, then looked at the bare area around his sternum, and immediately retreated.

"I've got tributes to see to," Grantaire said, "but Bahorel will find you.We'll do some last minute training. I wish you the best. And thank you." 

Combeferre wondered what he was being thanked for as Grantaire closed the door.

Grantaire, Feuilly, and Bahorel talk frankly about the sexual expectations of victory. Also Grantaire styles Combeferre in a risque outfit that is not in alignment with his gender idenity.

There is a trigger warning in the end notes, please click if you think you'll need it.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


It was a strange room to be left alone in. Combeferre looked in the floor length mirror once he was alone, and did not recognize himself. He supposed he looked nice as his eyes traveled up and down his own body. 

It was odd. He'd never much cared for his chest, but if it'd help Courfeyrac in the future, then he'd wear what was required of him. At least the material was comfortable, and it wasn't a dress. Briefly, he wondered if he'd keep the outfit. If only the trousers and the boots, though perhaps the coat was fine if he slipped a shirt beneath it. It was not the worst outfit he ever wore.

Really, Grantaire had done him a service. He must have had a plan. Combeferre would just have to trust Grantaire and the other Victors. At least they were kinder than Otto and Bell.

Otto and Bell would certainly let him fall under his own weight during an interview. They never liked him. Grantaire, once he received the message, managed to dress him suitably, write a speech, and arrange last minute training before the start of the Games tomorrow. All of the Victors promised him help in the arena, as well.

"Faraday Combeferre," a peacekeeper opened the door, "come with me."

Combeferre obeyed. He blocked out the scenery, and rolled the speech over in his head. He couldn't lose focus, no matter how uncomfortable he was. 

He did not survey backstage, he simply waited until Thenardier announced, "welcome Faraday Combeferre from District 3!" 

It was too bright, just like Jehan warned. The audience applauded, and Combeferre took measured steps toward his chair. He looked out toward the monitor, but did not smile. 

"Oh, that's a champion in the making!" Thenardier exclaimed, rising to his feet. He grabbed Combeferre's hand and placed a wet kiss on the front.

This was not part of the speech, but Combeferre could stay the course. He did not smile, because Bahorel told him not to, and took his seat once he was released. Once the crowd was quiet, Thenardier resumed the interview. 

"Faraday, my dearest Faraday, can I call you Faraday?" 

Close enough to the script. Combeferre looked toward the back of the room, then realized he could not read the words on the monitor. He needed new glasses. 

He could do this. This was the mission. He rehearsed, and he could remember if he focused. "My friends call me Jolts." 

He shoved his hands deep in his pockets to keep himself from moving. 

"Her friends call her Jolts!" The audience cooed. "Jolts, what a charming nickname! A girl named Jolts in an outfit like that!" Thenardier whistled and the crowd roared, but Combeferre kept his eye trained on the back of the auditorium. "Doesn't she just look stunning?" 

"You don't look too bad," Combeferre recited. 

"Darling, you've barely even looked at me!" This was not part of it. The crowd laughed. "Aren't you just ravishing?" 

Was that the end of it? "You flatter me." Combeferre said, deadpan. There was more laughter. 

"So Jolts, can I call you Jolts?" 

He couldn't remember. Combeferre bunched his fists in his pockets. "You're doing it," he said. 

They all laughed. Not Combeferre, because he wasn't supposed to smile.

"I can feel the electricity, is that why they call you Jolts?" 

"I'm good with electricity."

"Aren't you shocking!" The crowd was so loud, but Combeferre took a deep breath. He could handle this. "How absolutely amazing! This will make for a charged game!" The Capital really did clap for anything. "Do you have any strategies?" 

"Yes, to win," he paused, like he did in training. The next line was odd, so he practiced it over and over in his head. "I know when to fight and when not to fight. Sometimes, it's not the time to fight, and the best thing is to hide, until the other tributes are weaker." 

"Oh, I would let you conquer me," Thernadier put a hand on his shoulder, and he shrugged it off. "You have anyone you're stalking like the beautiful predator you are?" 

What was his line? He turned to Thenardier and wondered why he had a top hat like a jewel beetle. Thenardier gestured at his chest, and Combeferre looked back to the monitor he could not see. "There is a boy." 

He hoped that was right. 

"A boy? She likes a boy!" The crowd oohed and awed just like Jehan. "There's no man alive that could deny you, sweetheart. What's this boy like?" 

"Bold and brilliant," he smiled a little, without thinking. "I love him." 

"Young love! I remember the first time I fell in love!" 

"It was with Feuilly," Combeferre said. That was the next line, wasn't it? He remembered that coming up in the room. 

"Oh heavens! You've already fallen for another Victor! Feuilly! He's a lucky man. But we all knew that about Feuilly!" Thenardier led the laughter and cheers of the crowd. 

They had said Feuilly's name more than once. Combeferre had gotten something wrong. Could he get it back on track? "I miss him," Combeferre muttered, looking at his boots. "I look forward to a time when we can have breakfast together, again." 

Combeferre paused, and the crowd kept making noises similar to the Bishop when he was just starting to talk at age seven. "I love him, and he knows I'd do anything for him." 

"Anything? You're going to win for our dearest Graft Feuilly? Are we going to witness a wedding between 3 and 11?" 

"Anything," Combeferre said. That was his line. He could keep this train on the rails. "Anything he asks. He knows it." 

"Has he already asked for your hand!" Thenardier's shrill voice rang in his ears. "Not a wonder why, just look at her! It sounds like it was an intense courtship." 

"I'm intense," Combeferre stared blankly toward the back of the room. This part meant it was almost over. 

"Of course you are, just look at you. It's a wonder you got any training done at all!" 

Combeferre's next line was "does it?" 

"You, darling, exude confidence," Thenardier laughed, pulling Combeferre's hands into his own. They both rose to their feet, and then, suddenly Thenardier gave him a full kiss, pressing their bodies together. "I couldn't let Feuilly have all the fun." 

The kiss made his stomach hurt, and he just stood there, frowning. The crowd was riotous, similar to the sounds at the Reaping. 

"Faraday 'Jolts' Combeferre from District 3!" Thenardier bowed, and Combeferre walked off stage, hands in his pockets.

Shell-shocked, Combeferre robotically walked away from the light. He kept walking without looking where he was going. Once he pulled his hands out of his pockets, he slammed his hands into his legs. That had gone wrong. He had one mission, and he failed. 

"Jolts!" Bahorel clasped Combeferre on the shoulder, then pulled him into a very firm hug. "Hey, hey, Combeferre," Bahorel mused. "You did good. You did." 

"I couldn't see," Combeferre whispered, clawing at his legs. "I failed. I failed." 

"Nah," Bahorel said, squeezing Combeferre's sides. "You did great." 

"I failed," Combeferre repeated. "Grantaire gave me a mission and I failed. I failed." 

"You didn't," Bahorel said, trying to pull Combeferre forward. When Combeferre didn't move, Bahorel scooped him up into his arms. It felt just like how the Bishop used to carry him when he had a meltdown. 

Combeferre kept clawing at his legs as Bahorel restrained him. He had a simple task, and he couldn't do it. He couldn't memorize a paper or read the tone of the interview. He couldn't even fucking see like he was supposed to. He was a failure. 

"Hey, dude," Bahorel grabbed Combeferre's wrists. "You're gonna be fine. We did great. Thenardier is a fucking asshole, but you sat up there like a badass, and made it all look below you." 

"I failed," Combeferre could not break his own skin with Bahorel's restraints. "I failed." He tried to rock, but he could barely move beneath Bahorel's grip. 

Bahorel, sensing Combeferre's panic, rocked him against his chest as if he was a child. The Bishop used to do this, when he'd start to hurt himself. He knew, somewhere in the back of his mind that Bahorel was trying to be kind. The Bishop did this as a kindness, not as a punishment. 

"I failed," Combeferre felt as if he couldn't breathe. Why wasn't Bahorel angry? Was he waiting until they were alone? "I failed," he reiterated. "Grantaire ordered-" 

"You did fine," Grantaire sighed. Where was he coming from? Combeferre couldn't open his eyes to check. "Great, even. You did what you needed." 

"I failed," Combeferre mumbled. He was a failure. It was such a simple ask, and he couldn't manage. He wasn't Courfeyrac and he couldn't do anything correctly. "I'm a failure." 

"Meet me in my room," Bahorel said, spinning both of them. "Feu, come grab Jolts!" 

"Me?" Feuilly stammered as Combeferre continued to mutter to himself. "I've got tributes!" 

"Your new love interest is having a panic attack," Bahorel whispered, as Combeferre was moved from Bahorel's arms to Feuilly's. "I'll calm the kids from 11."

"Love interest?" Feuilly asked, as Combeferre clawed at his knees. "Christ! Button the jacket!" 

"No," Bahorel said as Feuilly's hands grabbed Combeferre's wrists. "Make it look like you're going to your apartment to fuck Jolts' brains out. They'll get your picture, and it'll help us. Don't let them see him crying. Tough tributes don't cry in public."

"Love interest," Feuilly repeated, pressing Combeferre's face into his neck. 

He hated this so much. It felt like he was being burned alive. It was too loud, and too bright, even with his eyes closed and his face pressed against Feuilly's neck. How could anyone enjoy this environment? Why was everyone touching him? 

"Thenardier fucked it all up and Jolts said you two are getting married," Bahorel explained. "It's fine," he added, whispering. "Thinking about it, it's fucking good. Neither of you are cut out to handle the Capital alone. Take him to our apartment." 

"If he doesn't fucking die," Feuilly whispered, tilting Combeferres face so it was completely obscured. "He's just some kid from 3, Baz. He could die." 

Combeferre knew that. If he was bad at the Games as he was at interviews, then he'd certainly die. 

"Grantaire thinks he's important," Bahorel said, whispering so quietly that Combeferre could barely hear him. "I trust him." 

"No one is important," Feuilly muttered, as they started to walk. 

"You're important," Bahorel said, voice far away. "You're important to me." 

"I failed. I'm a failure. I failed," Combeferre lips moved against Feuilly's neck. "I failed." 

Something bright flashed as Feuilly grabbed Combeferre's chest. "I'm so fucking sorry, dude. Paparazzi is the worst. You need to win, and this is gonna help." 

The jacket was pulled tighter by Feuilly's hand, though his fingers grazed Combeferre's bare skin. Feuilly's fingertips pulled at the seam of the blazer, pushing it closed, but his palm smashed Combeferre's chest down. Another flash lit his eyelids, and he kept repeating his failure beneath his breath. He had failed, and the whole thing was for nothing. He scratched at his legs, then when Feuilly repositioned his hands, clawed at Feuilly's shoulder blades, trying to find purchase. 

Feuilly pulled his hands from Combeferre's chest, buttoning the jacket as a blast of air conditioner rolled over Combeferre's skin. The mechanical sound of the elevator echoed as they were lifted off the ground. Courfeyrac wouldn't have fucked that up. He would have spoken circles around Thenardier. 

"Failure," Combeferre's blunt nails dug into Feuilly's jacket. "Absolute, colossal failure." A door opened, then shut, and Combeferre was deposited somewhere cushioned. 

"Your interview was so good!" Jehan announced, giggling. "Thenardier kissed you on the mouth which was so gross, but you didn't even twitch." 

Combeferre rolled to his side, then curled into the fetal position, tucking his chin behind his knees. The bed, he must have been on bed, jostled from a change in weight, then something heavy was placed over his form. It was a pleasant even heaviness. 

"That's my hug blanket," Jehan said, the bed dipping. "Grantaire made it for when I feel all alone." 

"Good idea," Feuilly whispered, turning on the television. At first it was loud, but the volume quickly fell. "So 1 and 2, all are under 15, no weapons proficiencies, no innate survival skills. You know the other boy from 3, but he just cried. I wouldn't worry." 

Combeferre willed himself to pay attention. This was a lesson, and lessons were important. Feuilly pulled the bottom of the blanket up and started to tug at his boots. It took too long to free his feet, but eventually the boots sailed across the room and hit the wall with a thud.

"We missed the girl from 4, but she's got a lazy eye and some of the worst depth perception Valjean said he's ever seen. Boy 4, too. He's 16, sturdy, but I grappled with him, he was pinned in ten seconds. He's not nearly as strong as he looks. 5's girl is 12 and seems like the wind would knock her over. 5's boy is 15, thinks he can win and wants to win, but he's delusional. Wouldn't read the survival books because he didn't think they were necessary." 

Combeferre couldn't handle all this information. He groaned, pulling the blanket tighter around himself. It felt nice against his body. It made the impending crisis feel a little more manageable. He focused on his breathing and the heavy feeling of Jehan's blanket. Could he get one of these?

"I'm not mad," Feuilly said as the bed dipped again. "Like, you don't have a real thing for me, do you?" 

"Huh?" Combeferre flipped to lay prone, then opened his eyes to stare at the ceiling. It was white.

"Do you have romantic feelings for me?" 

"No," Combeferre felt the dread in his stomach again. He must have really ruined that interview if that was a question Feuilly needed to ask.

"Cool," Feuilly smiled, bending so he was in Combeferre's line of vision. "I'm not mad. The Capital was gonna pair you with someone, because that's what they do." 

Jehan's hand touched Feuilly's ear. "I'm gonna play Flight of the Bumblebee. I've been practicing to play really loud and really fast. Do you wanna hear?"

Feuilly nodded. 

The bed moved and Feuilly leaned over, whispering in Combeferre's ear. It tickled, but not in a way that was the slightest bit fun. Tickling was never fun, but this feeling at this moment made him want to push Feuilly away by his shoulders. The last bits of Combeferre's willpower stopped him. Feuilly was trying to help. 

"When Jehan starts playing, they can't hear, softly tell me what's happening." Oh, thank God. Combeferre nodded, forcing himself to sit up. "Make it look like we're making out." 

A shrill squawk came from an instrument, so high it made Combeferre's ears ring. The sound was overwhelming. Combeferre hoped that his lips nearly on Feuilly's ear and his hand on Feuilly's lower back qualified as making out. 

He pulled his suit jacked off, partially out of a desire to be convincing, and partially because the lapels started to rub at his shoulders and neck. Feuilly made a choked noise, but did not tilt his head downward.

"13 sent me," Combeferre whispered. Feuilly gasped, but quickly turned it to a lewd moan as he grabbed Combeferre's behind. "I trained." 

Jehan kept making a ruckus as Feuilly pulled apart and stared at Combeferre. He smiled a bit, then nodded. He placed a quick kiss at Combeferre's jaw, then pressed his mouth against Combeferre's ear. "Grantaire knows?"

Combeferre nodded and Feuilly laughed. 

Feuilly broke apart again, then placed a soft kiss on Combeferre's forehead. His eyes were wet with tears. "Please win," he said, wiping his face. "I need this." 

Combeferre, looked at him, bewildered. What was that supposed to mean? Why was Feuilly crying? The note on the recorder sounded like a duck being struck by a vehicle. "That is too loud!" He fell back onto the bed, exhausted. 

"It was so good, though," Feuilly yelled, clapping. "You are so talented." 

Why was everyone so fucking loud? Was this his punishment for failure?

"Well, let me know if you think Bahorel and Grantaire want to hear my song, too," Jehan smiled, climbing back onto the bed. They pointed to the TV, then, still smiling, announced, "there's that cunt I almost killed." 

"Who taught you that word?" Feuilly turned quickly. "It was Bahorel, wasn't it?" 

"Bahorel taught me how to break his arm, too. I had the knife he pulled at his throat and Grantaire pulled me off." 

Feuilly laughed, but shook his head. "Don't use that word. It's bad." 

"Everything is bad," Jehan stated. "But you don't have to worry about the boy, and I think I broke the girl's foot, too." 

"Really 10's girl is the only threat," Feuilly explained as he placed the hug blanket back onto Combeferre's body, careful not to touch him. "She's 18 and has killed cattle. She won't hesitate as much when it comes time to kill a person. Valjean says the slaughterhouse desensitizes the kids in 10."

"The tributes from 11," Feuilly sighed, "they're not going to fight. I can't ask," he sighed again, then stopped talking. He took a few moments, then continued, "if they're trapped," Feuilly's breath hitched, "and you can kill them without putting yourself in danger, please kill them quickly. They're both good kids." 

Combeferre nodded, turning to look at him. 

Exhaustion started to pull his body down, as Jehan came back to the bed. Something soft was wedged beneath the blanket into Combeferre's arms, and Jehan leaned over to place a quick kiss to Combeferre's forehead. 

"Oh, you're so sweet," Feuilly said, a little laugh under his breath. "You're a sweet kid, sometimes."

"Usually, I'm good, Grantaire says. Night," Jehan whispered, adjusting the blanket around Combeferre's neck. "You can borrow my blanket and Dolly until tomorrow. I'm gonna stay up, and so you don't have to worry."

"Go to bed," Feuilly yawned. "Both of you." 

Combeferre could follow that command. 

"I can't," Jehan said, jostling the bed. "I can't unless I have Grantaire or my medicine." 

"You can," Feuilly sighed as Combeferre yawned. "You can." 

"Can't," Jehan whined. "I get nightmares." 

"I'll send a truck," Feuilly slurred. 

What a nonsense phrase. Combeferre yawned again, gathering the stuffed doll in his arms. It reminded him of when he was small, of his own doll. People said odd things to children all the time. 

"Promise?" Jehan said, making the mattress bounce a little. They started to speak again before Feuilly got a chance to anwser. "You do, I know. You love me." 

"I love you," Feuilly whispered. "We all love you, kiddo." 

Combeferre believed them when they said it to each other. It was odd, because really only Courfeyrac had said it to him before. Maybe the Bishop did and he just couldn't remember. He felt like he would have remembered that feeling. He got tastes of it, second hand, just from listening to Feuilly and Jehan whisper. 

"Stay?" Jehan whispered, their voice cracking. "Wake me up. Do you promise?" 

"I promise." 

They kept talking, but Combeferre fell asleep quickly, tuning out the lull of their voices. It was a warm feeling that paired pleasantly with the comfort of the doll and protection of the blanket.

Combeferre is kissed and touched during his interview without his consent by Thenardier, and then is groped by Feuilly without consent in order to maintain a rouse for the paparazzi.

Combeferre awoke with a hand on his shoulder. He blinked, flinching beneath the fluorescent lights. Once his eyes focused, he saw Feuilly, then wrinkled his nose as he smelled cologne. 

"Glad to see me?" Feuilly snorted. 

Morning was not the best time to ask Combeferre a question. Courfeyrac knew that, but Feuilly would have to learn through experience. "You smell bad," Combeferre explained before he could think better of it. 

"Sorry?" Feuilly frowned. 

The window on the far side of the room was still dark, without even so much as a hint of predawn light. Bahorel stood behind Feuilly, a broad smile on his face. Combeferre surveyed the room, ascertaining after a few quiet moments that he was on Bahorel's bed. 

Then he remembered that Bahorel and Feuilly shared a bed. 

A heavy blanket pressed against his bare chest. He was nude from the waist up and something soft was in his arms. 

"It smells like you took a hooker's shower," Bahorel laughed, clasping Feuilly's back. "He got some as a gift, and he's wearing enough for Valjean to smell it in his apartment. It's just takes a dab, dude." 

"Fuck off, Bahorel." 

"I shouldn't have said that," Combeferre said, pulling the blanket up over his cheekbones until only his eyes were visible. "My apologies." 

"Nah, man," Feuilly shrugged. "I'm not mad at you. I know you're not trying to be a dick. Bahorel takes joy in making me miserable, because he's an asshole." 

"I'm an asshole?" Bahorel snickered, elbowing Feuilly in the ribs. "You left your new lover in our bed with Jehan." 

Oh. That happened, too. Combeferre squeezed his eyes closed. He failed that interview. 

"No, we're not thinking or talking about that," Feuilly snapped. "I'm gonna walk of shame you back to your apartment then you'll get ready and go kick some ass and take some names." 

That statement barely made sense to him. What was a walk of shame? Had he done something wrong? Bahorel laughed like it was a joke, and Feuilly said he wasn't mad. Feuilly didn't have a clear incentive to lie. They both were smiling, so he let it pass. 

Combeferre also was not sure how he could take a name. 

"Good luck, yeah?" Bahorel grinned. "Knock 'em dead. Avoid that bitch from 10 and you'll do great. You running for the Cornucopia?" 

"Should I?" Combeferre asked as his discarded suit jacket was thrown on top of the special blanket Jehan lent him. "I want one of these," Combeferre added, pointing to the blanket. 

"'Course bro," Bahorel nodded. Combeferre stared, hoping to guess which question he was answering. 

"Don't run to the Cornucopia," Feuilly grimaced. Feuilly ran into the bloodbath, and so did Bahorel. 

"Do it," Bahorek shook his head. "No one has bow proficiency, so all you gotta do is avoid blows. You want a good weapon, a bow. You want a bow." 

"I prefer spears," Combeferre said, sitting up and letting the blanket fall to his waist. Bahorel's mouth fell open and he looked down. 

"Get a bow," Feuilly groaned. "Like, the bow will help you. Distance fighting is safer."

"Grab whatever you can," Bahorel said, not making eye contact. He always made such heavy eye contact, so it was out of character for him to be looking elsewhere. "Don't be picky and don't take joy in killing." 

Combeferre slipped on his coat and nodded. He wasn't sure what joy there was to be had in having to murder others, but he wouldn't take it. Bahorel made eye contact again once the jacket was buttoned. "You got a ten. Highest score this year." 

Feuilly threw himself onto the bed, wrapping both arms around Combeferre's torso. His arms were strong and it was comforting, he supposed. "Please come back," Feuilly said softly. "We need you." 

"Okay," Combeferre said.

"Jolts is gonna kick some ass, just like the Bishop," Bahorel joked as Feuilly somehow held him tighter. Bahorel frowned, then added, "the Bishop was a fiery old man and cunning as hell. That motherfucker distracted a peacekeeper and let them drag him to medical," his eyes started to water, "literally drag his ass out of the training, all so I didn't get punished, and I was just a bratty kid from 2. He thought I was good. He saw good, for some fucking reason. That man saw me, and he thought I deserved to live." 

Feuilly peeled himself away, then offered a hand to Combeferre. "You did," Feuilly said solemnly. "He was right; you are good."

"Good people have parents who talk to them," Bahorel shrugged as Combeferre climbed out of bed. 

"Am I good?" Combeferre asked, grabbing his boots from the wall. He had always thought he was good, but his parents had abandoned him with the Bishop. The Bishop thought he was good, but maybe the Bishop made a habit of being incorrect. 

"Yeah, dude," Bahorel's thick hands rubbed over his face. "Yeah, of course you are." 

"My parents don't talk to me," Combeferre said, untying the shoes and shoving his feet into their confines. "They left me with the Bishop when I was a toddler." A dark thought crossed his mind, one that with the benefit of sleep and calm nerves he would have kept to himself. "Because of how I am, I think. The Bishop taught me how to read faces and talk and-" 

"Oh, no that's not what," Feuilly whispered, grabbing Bahorel's hand, "that's not. Fuck, that's awful." 

"Bahorel just feels guilty," a small voice called from the side of the bed. Combeferre hadn't even realized there was someone else in the room. Someone had slept next to him all night, piled beneath a mound of blankets. "My parents don't love me, but the Victors do. They're going to love you, too. Grantaire loves people really easy, not as easy as Joly, but easy." 

"Did you sleep at all?" Feuilly rubbed Bahorel's arm. A red head with a disheveled braid peeked out from the blanket and shook back and forth. "Jehan, please. Please sleep." 

"I don't need to. It's only been five days and I took a nap." 

"Go change," Bahorel said, looking at Combeferre. "We're gonna get you everything you need in the arena."

"Love you," Jehan smiled, sitting up completely. They waved at Combeferre. "This is the part where you say it back."

"Love you?" Combeferre said, highly unsure of himself. Why was Jehan saying that? What an odd thing to say to a stranger. 

"We'll go to the botanical gardens," Jehan's eyes closed as they smiled. "Grantaire promised me we'd all go after the Games are over and I'll tell you all about the flowers. I know a lot. I love flowers." 

That sounded nice. Combeferre nodded, smiling. "I'll teach you about the bugs. Did you know some aphids give birth to live young, like mammals? They're not mammals, because they have exoskeletons, and they're-" 

"You have to go," Bahorel said, pointing toward the door. "Get your trinket, and go fucking win." 

"Bye Faraday!" Jehan shouted as Combeferre followed Feuilly outside of the apartment.

"You're going to win," Feuilly explained as they bypassed the elevator and instead walked toward a locked balcony. First, he flicked on the light, then he used the key he held in his hands to open the door. "Paparazzi are camped outside." 

"Why?" Combeferre asked, shoving his hands in his pants pockets. 

"They like to gossip," Feuilly shrugged. A light flashed in the darkness and a shutter clicked. "Kiss?" 

"Kiss? Me?" Combeferre didn't understand. Why would Feuilly kiss him? Why out here? 

Feuilly laughed, then smoothed his hair back as he leaned on the railing with his other arm. His short hair didn't even seem to move any, not with the way it grew from his scalp. It seemed to be maybe a performative action, judging by the next flash of light. 

"We kiss so they get a picture," Feuilly explained, stepping closer. "And then everyone sees how much I like you, and they all want a Victor wedding since Grantaire's didn't happen. I'll probably offer sponsors invitations in exchange for sponsorships. Offer them an evening with the two of us if you get totally hamstrung."

This didn't make too much sense, but Combeferre needed to focus on winning. If Feuilly thought this would help, then he'd do it. "Please don't make a mess on my pants." 

"That's not a normal thing," Feuilly snickered, eyes crinkling at the corners. "Like, most of the time, virtually always, I mean, I have never came my pants from kissing. I've never ejaculated in my pants at all, not by accident." 

Oh, that was why Courfeyrac left the room so quickly. That made sense. 

"Grantaire is going to try to get me on the helicopter that's sent to pull you out, with a reporter who can get a reunion kiss. I won't be able to warn you like I am now. I'm just going to kiss you stupid." 

"How do you kiss someone stupid?"

"I'll show you."

Feuilly leaned forward, placed his hands on Combeferre's waist. "Tighter?" Combeferre shifted his weight as Feuilly's fingers ghosted over his coat. "I like hard touch." 

"Cool," Feuilly said, squeezing the meat on Combeferre's hips. "Cool." He leaned forward, then swiftly pressed his lips against Combeferre's. There was a confidence that Courfeyrac didn't have. "Hands on your ass?" Feuilly asked, pulling away just enough to whisper. 

Hesitantly, Combeferre nodded. Feuilly leaned forward to kiss him again, then grabbed Combeferre's backside with both hands, pushing it upward. The lights flashed in quick succession and Combeferre moaned. 

Maybe all kissing was good. This was a fantastic feeling. 

"Okay, climb up," Feuilly said, pointing toward 3's balcony. "Your door should be unlocked." 

Combeferre could do that. He leapt into the air, grabbing the bottom on the railing. In a swift pull up, he rose to his feet, then crawled up to 3's balcony. The cameras below were reminiscent of a lightning storm.

He dusted off his pants, then poked his head over the side to look down at Feuilly. "Bye," Combeferre said, jacket falling open. 

"Holy fuck," Feuilly grinned and clapped. "The stairs are right there! Go change and I'll see you when it's over." 

Combeferre didn't see the stairs. The door to the apartment was unlocked, and he snuck inside and quickly cleaned himself up in the bathroom. He showered quickly, realizing that this would be his last time with water pressure until after he won. 

He needed to just assume he would win. Threats of failure made him spin out of control, and he couldn't manage that this morning. He scrubbed his face, rubbing away the makeup, and quickly shampooed his hair. 

He dressed in his uniform, then shoved his hay penny in his pocket. He placed the interview outfit on a hanger in the closet, along with the chunky boots. For breakfast, he decided he'd eat two apples and two slices of plain bread, toasted. 

He didn't even like toast, but that was what Otto and Bell would feed him when he returned to work at their inn. He ate extra, just because he was unsure of the next time he would eat. Food in the Games tended to be sparse.

Courfeault came out and cried at the table, already dressed. He didn't address Combeferre, so Combeferre decided not to concern himself. Breakfast was good, and that's all he needed to think about. 

Eat, then focus on the modified objective of winning the Games. When he went home to 3, after, he'd go to Otto and Bell, and they'd have amended instructions. He'd get a real reprimand for his astronomical failure during the interview. While the punishment wasn't something he enjoyed, it clearly helped him stay on task. 

"Time to go," a peacekeeper announced, unlocking their front door. Combeferre followed, like he always did. It was never allowed to disobey a peacekeeper. 

They were walked out of the apartment, but left by the elevator, not the balcony. Courfeualt continued to cry, but Combeferre just walked. Walking was a simple enough command. 

They went through the city until they reached the airport. Combeferre looked down at his shoes, and did his best to block out the noise of the Capital.

On the tarmac Feuilly waved at him. A photographer took his picture as he scanned the crowd of tributes. Grantaire gave him a quick nod, which he returned, and Bahorel puckered his lips in a kiss, then laughed with his head tilted back. 

Joly, the Victor in the wheelchair, had drool seeping from his mouth, and was pushed by Valjean. Joly didn't not seem to be awake.

The sounds of the airplane reminded him of home. With his eyes closed, he pretended that the hum of the engines were the fans from a computer. Hopefully, next time they were in front of a computer, Combeferre and Courfeyrac would be touching shoulders again. 

The plane jostled, and a girl cried out, choking back a sob. A few joined her, and Combeferre was unable to ascertain exactly how many people were crying. Crying wouldn't help any of them, so he didn't see the point. There was no advantage given for crying during transport.

Someone yanked on his wrist as they hit a patch of turbulence. A boy, suspiciously sounding like Courfeualt, screeched that, "they were all going to die!" That was false, Combeferre thought to himself as something pierced his arm. 

23 of them would die, not all of them. 

His arm burned as the tracker was injected. This was why the tributes were crying. It hurt, but it wasn't unbearable. 

The plane touched down, and they were escorted toward what seemed a lot like a cellar with concrete floors instead of dirt. And adequate lighting, but Combeferre reminded himself that they were supposed to be watched. Otto and Bell had called the Capital a surveillance state on more than one occasion, so it was only rational that they had lights for their CTTV.

A peacekeeper pointed to a steel door and Combeferre walked through it. The lock clicked behind him, and he changed from his training uniform to his Games uniform. The training uniform was softer, he could tell from holding the Games uniform in his hands, but it wouldn't be unbearable. It might provide incentive for him to complete his mission with urgency, but it wouldn't overload his senses. 

There was a tube in the far corner of the room that he noted as he deftly changed. That must have been where he was supposed to stand. He'd never thought of how the tributes were placed into the arena, but a pneumatic tube seemed as good a way as any. 

"Thirty seconds," a female voice, digitized, rang through the speakers. 

Inside there was hardly enough space for him to hold his elbows out, but this was only temporary. If he'd be finished with this space that was too tight in half a minute, it was not worth dwelling on. 

He needed to focus on his plan. Bahorel said he should run to the Cornucopia, and Bahorel seemed to have decent instincts. Feuilly had warned him not to, but also stressed the importance of a good weapon. They didn't stash weapons anywhere else, and if he wanted one, the best time to get one was in the bloodbath.

"Fifteen seconds." 

Combeferre was not a bad sprinter. If he sprinted, blindly grabbed a bag and something from the weapon's rack, he had a good chance of making his way from the bloodbath. 

"Ten seconds."

He could retreat to cover, and he was proficient with every weapon that had ever been featured in the last 47 Games, including wooden clubs which only made an appearance in the 12th Games. 

"Five seconds."

Some boy from 4 had used the clubs as torches, and set fire to the forest. The smoke was so thick that their cameras couldn't get decent shots, and that boy died from the only muttation that made an appearance. It was a bear and it simply went to sleep in the middle of the burning forest once the boy was down.

The glass slid closed and the platform raised ever so slowly. Combeferre took a deep breath, and softly smiled; the mechanics of the platform sounded just like Courfeyrac's Perfect Apple Halver machine.

"Ten." 

The sun warmed Combeferre's face. It was an artificial sun, like the heat lamp Otto and Bell kept in the kitchen of their inn. Everything in the Games was just engineered.

"Nine." 

A child cried, but Combeferre scanned the horizon instead of turning toward the noise. This arena was very grey, to the point where a quick look yielded no useful information. Occasionally, something glinted beneath the harsh light, but it was mostly monochromatic.

"Eight." 

The Cornucopia was also a matte grey. It did not sparkle beneath the sun. Little lines spiderweb up the sloping curves of the back, like cracks in the sidewalk from 3. 

"Seven."

The Cornucopia was concrete. Combeferre turned to look at the horizon again, and noted what seemed to be the husks of skyscrapers. It was a cityscape, just like 3. 

"Six." 

In the event of a city he was instructed to use traps. Hopefully he'd receive electricians gloves, but these buildings must have had other rubber items. He was drilled on items he could find to manipulate electricity safely. 

"Five." 

Toilet plungers were typically made of rubber. Dish gloves could be rubber, though typically they were plastic. He'd have to carefully test the material in his fingers, trying to discern. Sometimes children's beds had rubber sheets, for ease of cleaning. 

"Four." 

No lights were on, but this place most likely had electricity. Even if it wasn't evident, most of the arenas, in modern history, they had powered components. 

"Three." 

Boom! Combeferre held fast, completely still. Boom! Boom! The child who was crying suddenly stopped. 

"Two."

It was time to look toward the Cornucopia again. He was at the butt of the horn, unable to see the boon inside, but he was fast. His eyes darted momentarily to a red patch on the left of his vision. Someone set off a trap. 

"One." 

He leaned down, in a runner's crouch. If he took a tight arch toward the front, he could avoid most of his fighting until he had a weapon. 

The buzzer went off and Combeferre sprinted. 

Gravel crunched beneath his feet as he ran as quickly as he could. This was the mission, and he would complete the mission as directed. His chest ached as he huffed, but this was typical for sprints.

In his peripheral vision, he saw a girl with dark brown hair pulled off her shoulders lunge directly at his legs. She was wide, with muscled arms and no hesitation Combeferre could see in her movements. She was sure footed. 

This must have been the girl from 10. 

Combeferre jumped away, but she snagged his ankle. He fell forward, onto her back as she clawed at his flesh. She was confident, but did not seem to know how to fight. Combeferre could feel his shoe tap against her chin. 

Swiftly, he reared his foot back, out of her grip, and kicked her in the teeth. 

He felt her teeth give, and he attacked again, foot connecting with her jaw, this time unencumbered. She was prone, which he knew put her at a disadvantage. He quickly looked upward, and saw a few tributes running away from the scuffle, and a few more running toward the mouth. 

He was not in immediate danger from an outsider attacker. He twisted his body on top of hers, then wrapped his hands around her ponytail. The quickest way, on asphalt, to end her life, was to bash her head in. 

Like yanking a rope, he lifted her head from the ground, then shoved it forward with all of his might. She made a strangled sound of pain as teeth clattered onto the pavement. Long hair was a liability. She should have shaved her head. 

She struggled, head whipping back and forth, so he pulled until he heard her neck crack, then ground her face into the ground. Just to be certain, he did it one last time, then rose to his feet over her still body. 

Red blood blossomed from her head. He assumed she was dead, but he did not have time to finish her if she wasn't. She wouldn't move in her current state; he would check when he obtained a weapon. 

Four cannons sounded, and he hoped one was for the girl from 10. He did not put so much weight on hope, because hope was not a plan. 

It was significantly harder to sprint after his scuffle, just from energy output. He made due, summoning his reserves until another tribute, a short boy, dived for him. 

Combeferre was running slow enough to react. He shoved the boy out mid jump, then slammed down, elbow into the center of the boy's back. The air left the boy's lungs like a deflating balloon. This boy had short hair, as was sensible for fighting, so Combeferre oriented himself so he could wring his neck. 

A cannon fired, but the boy beneath him continued to struggle. 

Combeferre's knees dug into the boy's back as he strangled him. He scanned the horizon as he disabled this boy. The remaining tributes in his sight were fleeing towards the buildings. 

The body beneath him stopped thrashing, eventually, so Combeferre put both hands over the boy's ears, and twisted until he could see the boy's eyes. His eyes were brown, like Courfeyrac's, and Combeferre jumped back a little, suddenly startled. 

A cannon pulled him back to reality. He needed to procure a weapon, per Bahorel and Feuilly.

A girl hobbled toward him, axe in her arms, with a boy behind her. They moved slowly, each wincing with every step. Combeferre supposed he'd have to fight them bare handed. He'd been trained on how to disarm another tribute, but this girl barely seemed capable of movement. She favored her right foot heavily and the boy, upon closer inspection, gripped a dagger in his left hand. 

The boy was not even using proper form on his weapon, fist wrapped around the handle too close to the blade. Courfeyrac could easily grab the bottom of the wooden base, then maneuver the dagger into the boy's chest. 

And that was what he did. The girl tried to spin, but cried out when she put weight on her left leg. She was easy enough to topple with Combeferre's non-dominant arm. It was a simple shove to the chest, and the axe scratched him as she stumbled backwards, lying flat on her back. 

The wound from the axe did not feel worse than the insertion of the tracker. It was significantly better than when Otto felt it necessary to use his switch or paddle. She hadn't aimed for him, not with any sort of force. The axe simply caught on his back as she fell.

After a short struggle, the boy dropped the dagger and clung to the wound in his chest. A hand alone would not stop the bleeding from a stab wound, but it didn't feel necessary to share that information. He wouldn't have time to pack the wound, even if he successfully ran away from Combeferre, which he would not. 

With the dagger pressed firmly in his palm, Combeferre stabbed a few more times. They were graceless attacks, but he was going for quantity not quality. It was simply faster to make seven holes for blood to pour from, than one hole where the blood would escape quickly. 

The cannon told him when it was time for him to turn his attention to the girl on the ground. 

She didn't seem able to rise to her feet, which suited Combeferre fine. It'd be easier to complete his objective if she simply laid there. He placed one foot on the axe handle, squashing her fingers in the process. She made a noise, one that reminded Combeferre of Courfeyrac, when they'd grapple in the crawlspace and he'd be pinned. 

That was not a noise Combeferre wanted to hear. He bent over, his body weight holding the axe in place, and slit the girl's throat in one fluid motion. The sound of pain turned to a gurgle, which was at least palatable. The sound didn't hurt him, not like seeing Courfeyrac in the tributes.

A cannon fired and it was time for him to move on.

No else approached him as he walked to the Cornucopia. Clearly, the other tributes had ransacked the place. A small girl, blonde hair in a braid, squeaked out for help, pinned beneath the tip of a sword. Whoever attacked her did not have time to finish the job, but fortunately left a sword for his use. 

Once he was sure there were no other combatants, he pulled the sword from the girl's stomach, then plunged it back in, ripping it downward. He did not make the mistake of looking in her eyes. He stabbed again, looking elsewhere until a cannon sounded. 

She was neutralized.

As he dug through the abandoned supplies, he realized with relief that the other tributes did a lackluster job of scavenging. There were two canteens of water hidden in the side pouch of an empty backpack. Did they not realize what a treasure water was? Without clean water, if the Game proceeded for more than a few days, they'd die. 

Combeferre wouldn't even have to find them. The arena would do his job for him. Jerky ripped from its packaging was scattered along the floor. He was going to have to gather that.

Somewhere, someone died, marked by a cannon. 

He had time to organize the horde of supplies. No one was near him. This was a strategic choice. He'd done inventory in the inn, as part of his chores. He'd thought it a waste at the time, but clearly Bell and Otto knew things he did not. 

Scurrying to and fro, he stacked the flasks of water in the tip of the horn. The water was the most important resource, and if someone ransacked the supplies, he'd rather them take anything else. The ten silver flasks would last a few days, he supposed. He would have five days, at minimum, before he died of dehydration, while the others would have three. 

Unless there was another source of water, which was of course possible. He could scout for that, once he used his supply. 

The medicine, a few salves and bandages were next. It wasn't much, but he had an open wound, and he at least had the supplies to stave off an infection. He pulled a roll of gauze and a cream to the side, perching them on the lip of the Cornucopia. He also took one of his waters, because the cut would need to be rinsed.

There were six segments of rope, some so short they were essentially useless. He sorted them by length. The two that were under a foot long, he coiled and placed over his water and medicine, to act as a sort of camouflage.

It was not true camouflage, since the rope was a pale tan and the Cornucopia was grey. The very definition of camouflage involved blending into one's surroundings, like a stick bug or an orchid mantis, but this would serve the purpose. Humans had a very limited spectrum of vision, so it was unlikely to be detected. 

There were five bows, twenty five arrows, seven daggers including the one he took from the boy, a mace, a throwing axe, and the sword he took from the girl's body. He lined them up along the wall from the tallest to the shortest. Some of the daggers were almost identical in height, so he took his time. He swapped a few, once he was done, just to make sure the order was correct. 

A beeping sound caught his attention as he handled the daggers. It was a sponsorship. There wasn't anything he needed, but maybe the Victors knew something he didn't. 

The note attached had three different handwritings. First, "Everyone wants to send you items. Here are your gloves." It was signed with a sprawled R in cursive and Combeferre wasn't sure who that was. 

Bahorel wrote "you beautiful bastard!"

The last thing was just a heart, filled in with black pen by an unsteady hand. Perhaps it was a sipher, and he just needed time to crack the code. He creased the note, then carefully tucked it against his chest. 

Inside the capsule was a pair of dark green electrician gloves. Carefully, he tucked them into the bag he decided to use. 

The air was hot as he looked at his supplies, the body of the blonde girl askew on the side. He could hear the helicopters descend, taking the bodies, and he watched as a figure in thick black armor took her corpse. She was placed inside a large, metal cage, and the figure and the body ascended into the air.

Her blood still stained the floor of the Cornucopia. There were six bedrolls, so he took one and spread it over the red. 

He was unsure how long he spent fighting and organizing, but he decided that he could stop for lunch. He climbed out of the Cornucopia, poured half of the flasks of water over his back, then rubbed a liberal amount of medicine on it. The gauze wouldn't stick, but he had enough medicine left in the first container to reapply when the wound became dry. 

He sat on his bed, or at least what was his bed for the time being. He ate the jerky he pulled from the floor, forcing himself to eat, even though the texture was dreadful. He wouldn't be given anything else to eat; that's why Otto and Bell had forced him to eat what he was given. 

He took sips of water to soften the meat, and finished the entire ration. He had more jerky, four more bags, two pieces of flatbread, and a few rations of dried apricots. He didn't need too much. 

In silence, Combeferre finished the rest of the flask, then tucked it away in his bag. It was metal, and metal always had use. Or Courfeyrac could always find use for metal, and Combeferre hoped he could also find it useful. It would at least be a decent projectile if he was in trouble. 

What did he do in the afternoons? Typically, he cleaned, but he already tended to the mess the other tributes made. 

He decided that he could patrol around the Cornucopia. He took the sword and a bow with five arrows, just in case. He walked in a circle, scanning the buildings in the distance for figures. 

Not watching where he was going, his foot hit a body. It was the girl from 10, still face down where Combeferre left her, taking shallow breaths. Finishing her was simple. He stopped piercing her with the sword when the cannon told him to stop. 

He left the axe with her, deciding he didn't want to haul it. 

Combeferre continued to pace, dragging his bloody sword. On the fifth orbit of the Cornucopia, the person in black armor loaded the girl from 10's corpse into the cage, and by the sixth orbit, they were gone. 

He continued his patrol until the sun set. When the anthem played, he stood at attention, palm on his heart. That was what he was supposed to do; the Bishop had taught him. 

Faces flashed in the sky; the boy from 2, Courfeault from 3, the boy from 4, the boy from 5, both tributes from 8, the girl from 9, the girl from 10, both from 11, and the girl from 12. 

He recognized the one's he killed. The tributes from 8 attacked him as a team, and he won. The girl from 10 lunged for him unarmed, as did the boy from 4. He'd taken out both of the fighters Feuilly had warned about. The girl from 9, the blonde, he killed her, too. 

Five kills in a bloodbath was not a record, but he didn't need to be impressive, he just needed to win so later Courfeyrac could win. 

If no one competent was left, it'd be safe enough to sleep. He ate a ration of apricots, then decided that he'd make a trap at the mouth of the Cornucopia, for the off chance one of the ten decided to stealthily attack him. 

In the dark he laid all of his metal weapons flat at the open perimeter. If anyone climbed up, he'd hear the rough sound of metal on concrete. When alerted, he'd grab the bow by his bedroll and shoot toward the noise. If that failed, he'd take his bloodied sword and handle it that way.

It was as good a plan as any, he decided, admiring his handiwork in the artificial light from the Capital's programmed moon. If he didn't sleep, his accuracy would suffer, as would his energy. 

He drank half a flask of water, then climbed beneath the blanket he'd laid out. The concrete was a close match for the wood in the small room he shared with Courfeyrac. Though it was hard to find sleep, even with the similarities. If Courfeyrac was here, they'd be in bed together. Combeferre would be able to hear his breathing and feel his warmth. 

Eventually, he grabbed a spare sleeping bag and huddled around it. Pretending Courfeyrac was with him was what finally got him to sleep.

"Where are we going today?" Joly asked, sitting up in his bed.

It wasn't really his bed. It was just a spare bed that he slept in. It was Valjean's bed, or maybe it was Javert's bed. Before it was Feuilly's bed, but now Feuilly and Bahorel shared a bed.

Valjean said he could borrow it after his leg was cut off. He usually stayed with Feuilly and Bahorel, but because there were strangers, he stayed with Valjean and Javert.

Joly still didn't understand why his leg needed to be amputated, but when he asked Valjean, he told him to be quiet. Nothing made any sense, and no one wanted to explain anything to him. 

He wasn't married, and he didn't get to go home. Well, he did for a week, but Bulgur and his mom were in a new house with running water and electricity. Neither of them would talk to him, but he got to see that they were alright. 

Bulgur called him a murderer when the peacekeepers brought him home, and then, in the same breath, thanked him for the house. Joly didn't know what he meant, but Bulgur wouldn't say another word to him, and his mother seemed to be in one of her bad spells.

"Watch party," Javert said, still dressed in his pajamas. "You bathed last night?" 

"Yeah," Joly smiled, rubbing the sleep from his eyes. 

"I'll help you get dressed," Javert nodded, going into a chest of drawers and grabbing clothes that Grantaire and Valjean bought for him from a place called a department store.

He got to wear borrowed clothes from Feuilly before, after they all went swimming and he got so sick, but after his leg was amputated, he got his own. Grantaire said he wore polo shirts and khaki pants, and that was his new style. Valjean, said he looked handsome, like a nice boy from the country. 

"I got medicine from Grantaire," Javert said, helping Joly out of bed. "You'll take it with breakfast." 

Javert was a peacekeeper, and Valjean, who was also an adult, said that Joly should always listen to him. Medicine wasn't bad, though Joly didn't understand how he was sick. Was he contagious? If he was, then he needed to spend all day in his bed and possibly see a doctor.

The Capital had hospitals and doctors, and Joly got to see them both all the time. All the doctors checked his leg, but the doctors never told him why it had to be removed. 

"Who will be at the party?" Joly asked as Javert helped him put pants on. He didn't need help, but Javert always helped him, anyways. He was just wearing his khakis, not wedding clothes, so it couldn't have been a fancy party. 

"The others, some people from the Capital," Javert explained, changing Joly's shirt for him. "Just say hello. Do not get into a conversation with a stranger." 

Javert told him not to speak to strangers often. They went to a botanical garden, right after he was well enough to leave the hospital, and Javert made sure no one spoke to him. 

It was still fun. Jehan sat in his lap, and Grantaire pushed them, taking Joly's chair up the winding paths through bright flowers. They all laughed, with Jehan asking everyone if they were prettier than the pansies. Joly explained that he really liked pansies and they reminded him of home, but he liked Jehan more. 

Jehan read him stories while he stayed in the hospitals, and while the flowers Bahorel sent were nice to look at, they couldn't talk to him. Company was better than flowers. Though the potted pansies Grantaire and Jehan put on Bahorel's balcony just for him were very sweet. 

Javert helped Joly into his wheelchair and Joly propelled himself into the kitchen. Breakfast was an entire spread of fancy Capital food. He slid into his place at the table, smiling at Valjean. 

"Good morning," Joly said, tucking into his breakfast. He had toast, eggs, bacon, and sliced strawberries in front of him. 

"Good morning," Valjean said, looking uncharacteristically somber. "I need you to not ask any questions today." 

Joly nodded, stuffing half a strawberry into his mouth. "Don't talk to strangers," he smiled. 

"Exactly," Valjean said, looking at the two strangers at the table. Joly was not allowed to talk with them, which seemed rude since so far they'd stayed in the apartment for five days. Hopefully, they understood that Joly had to follow the rules.

Javert came out once their silent breakfast was finished, dressed in his armor, and helped Joly into the bathroom. The doorway was not big enough for his chair. 

He brushed his teeth balancing on one foot, and peed with Javert's arm slung below his armpit. 

Javert never complained when Joly spent two minutes washing his hands. He didn't want to get sick, and good hygiene was how the doctors told him he could prevent infection. 

Joly did not need an infection. 

Once Joly's hands were clean, he took the medicine from Javert. He hoped whatever sort of illness he had, that this pill would make him better. Once back in his chair, he smiled at Valjean who mustered a smile in return. 

"Time to go," Valjean announced.

He pushed Joly, for speed's sake, and they rode the elevator. The girl they were with, one of the strangers, clenched her jaw as they descended one floor to the apartment that was supposedly Joly's. 

Valjean told the strangers inside it was time to go and they all rode down to the bottom. 

"Any last advice?" someone asked as the numbers ticked downward. That was because of electricity, like most things in the Capital. 

"Win," Valjean said plainly. No one else said a word throughout their trip. 

The Capital outside the apartment building bustled with life. Joly did not frequently get to leave the apartment building, so he soaked it in as a drowsiness settled over him. Javert accompanied him to medical appointments, and those were trips by car. That was most of his adventuring, save for the occasional trip where the entire group went to a party or when Jehan invited him to go somewhere.

Jehan picked the best places. Once they went to the zoo, and Joly saw animals that he never even heard of before. A woman, whose job was zookeeper, let him touch a llama on the back, and then she let him wash his hands until Jehan started to whine that it was time to see the aquarium. 

Most of his activities happened in the living room of Bahorel's apartment. Jehan read books aloud, they watched cartoons on the television, and they made music together. Joly had a tambourine that Grantaire promised he'd keep safe when Valjean said he didn't want it in his apartment. 

Jehan said that they were best friends, and Joly never had one of those before. Jehan sat next to him on the car rides through the city, and they'd point at the huge painted images above the Capital, which Grantaire called billboards. Jehan would say, that's the toothpaste we use, or those cookies are delicious, giggling as the scenery whirled past the windows.

This medicine, the pill Javert had gotten from Grantaire, seemed to have a side effect. His eyes drooped shut and his jaw sagged. Sometimes, often even, medication had side effects. The antibiotics he took after his leg was removed, they made his stomach hurt. And the pain pills, they made him sleepy, not unlike what he felt now.

Joly turned to ask Javert, "can I fall asleep?" as he saw a billboard for quick dry fingernail polish. 

Javert, face hidden behind his white helmet, nodded. 

A soft wind blew over his face as he felt himself fall asleep. He dreamt of the llamas at the zoo and Jehan's reassuring weight on his lap. 

He woke up to Bahorel grabbing his shoulder, whispering, "holy shit, dude, I can't do this."

"It's okay, Baz," Joly smiled, blinking slowly.

Baz was a nickname and Joly had permission to call him that. They were friends, and friends referred to each other with terms of endearment; that's what Grantaire called nicknames, even Bahorel's private nickname for him, which was Cuck. Joly wasn't entirely sure what that meant, but he knew he was not allowed to say it in front of Valjean or Javert. 

Joly and Jehan weren't allowed to call Grantaire that, either. Feuilly could, but he rarely did. Only if they were playing cards and Grantaire made a bluff that caused Feuilly to lose. Bahorel, on the other hand, he called Grantaire Cuck in any situation. 

"Go back to sleep," Bahorel said before Joly could survey the room. 

"Side effect," Joly nodded, drifting back into unconsciousness. 

This dream was more memory than dream, but it was pleasant. He saw he and Jehan on the floor of Bahorel's apartment each playing their instruments, with Grantaire sitting at the table drumming his hands. Grantaire said they were making music, while Bahorel claimed they were making a racket. Feuilly said sometimes noise was good, then started to beat on the couch, right behind Bahorel's head. 

Bahorel, in a stunning display of something Jehan would call flare, pulled Feuilly over the back of the couch by his forearms. Feuilly landed with his legs straddling Bahorel, giggling, and Joly couldn't help but smile as he saw the joy on Feuilly's face. Jehan cooed, pulling the recorder from their mouth as Bahorel and Feuilly bumped noses, then started to kiss. 

Jehan announced that clearly they were all witnessing true love, and Grantaire chuckled that he didn't want to witness anything. When Joly asked them what true love felt like, Bahorel pulled away, his face red, and said good. 

"Hand on your heart," Valjean said, moving Joly's hand to his chest. "Open your eyes and don't say a word." 

Joly listened, even though he was starving and just wanted to know when he'd get a meal. His eyes flew open and he held his hand in place. A song he was familiar with but didn't know played in the room. 

A huge television hung on the wall in front of him, seeming at least as big as a billboard. It was massive. He'd never seen a screen so large. 

Pictures of the strangers that stayed in their apartment buildings flickered on screen, emblazoned in light for 30 seconds before moving on to the next one. After some time the song stopped and Valjean placed Joly's hand back in his lap. 

More strangers, different strangers, whirled around them. When a woman with tall hair congratulated Joly, Grantaire, somewhere to his right, explained that Joly had laryngitis, but surely he appreciated the sentiment. 

No one told Joly he had laryngitis. Was he contagious? What were the symptoms? The woman's hair bobbed up and down as she placed a hand on Joly's shoulder. "You poor thing." 

Was laryngitis fatal? Was he dying right now? The air in the room seemed to thin out, and the blanket Grantaire made for him, the one Jehan said they blessed with feel better magic, was nowhere in sight. Joly's limbs shook and he gasped. 

The woman frowned, then kissed Feuilly on the cheek, whispering something about an invitation. To what, Joly wasn't sure. Maybe there was a party that Joly would miss because he'd be in heaven. 

"I think someone needs to take him," Valjean said, voice soft.

"Jehan's waiting," Bahorel's voice was behind Joly as he hyperventilated. "I'll go." 

Valjean squeezed Joly's leg. "Breathe." 

Joly tried, but couldn't. He shook his head furiously as his chair started to move. Where was he going? What was happening? They went outside as Joly's arms encircled his waist, clutching his stomach for dear life. He just needed to breathe, and he couldn't. 

They went into the apartment building, Joly trying his best not to cry. Bahorel didn't like crying, and sometimes it made him yell. Grantaire told Bahorel not to yell at Joly, that obviously Joly was scared, which was sometimes accurate. Bahorel would still yell if no one was around to make him stop. 

"Where's Feu?" Joly gasped as they rode the elevator. 

He and Feuilly had a standing agreement. If one of them felt especially bad, they'd find the other, even if it was the middle of the night. Lately, Feuilly didn't seem to need Joly, but Joly felt like he needed Feuilly constantly. 

"Hobnobbing with a bunch of rich assholes to help a dude who doesn't really seem to need help," Bahorel said as the elevator dinged. 

When the doors opened, Jehan stood on the other side, butcher knife in hand. They brandished it forward, snarling. They showed their white teeth and the deep purple marks under their eyes, thrusting their hand forward ever so slightly as a warning. Their eyes were vacant, as they usually were when this happened. 

"Kid," Bahorel sighed, pushing Joly toward Jehan. "Kid." For a moment, Jehan held their position. 

Jehan was head sick. Joly and Feuilly had talked about it, and clearly something was very wrong with Jehan. They were sweet and kind, but also sometimes easily frightened. It wasn't Jehan's fault that they were like that; it was just how they were. 

Everyone who lived in the Capital seemed to be head sick. It seemed like a side effect.

"Sorry," Jehan sheepishly smiled, lowering the knife to their side. "Can never be too careful." Bahorel laughed, then plucked the weapon from Jehan's hands. "Is Joly okay?" 

"Nah," Bahorel shrugged, putting the knife back on the very top shelf of the kitchen cabinet. 

"Oh, Joly," Jehan frowned, eyes glistening. "Shhh, shhh, you're okay. We'd never leave you alone. Never ever. You don't have to cry." 

"I'm dying of laryngitis," Joly whispered, throat tight. 

"Dude, laryngitis is treatable," Bahorel said as Jehan climbed into Joly's lap. "No one in my apartment is gonna die, not on my watch."

That was a relief. Joly nodded as Jehan threw their arms around Joly's neck. This was just a treatable disease. He would make a full recovery.

"You know what?" Jehan asked, placing a dry kiss on Joly's cheek. Joly did not know what, he shook his head. "I'm sending a truck." 

Bahorel pushed them both forward, then lifted them both into his arms at one time. When put down, they curled up on the couch. Jehan grabbed their own magic healing blanket, since Joly's was in Valjean's apartment, and wrapped it around Joly as best they could. 

"I'm sending a truck," Jehan whispered, rubbing Joly's arm over the blanket. "It's a red truck, with purple wheels and a sunroof. The truck is full of," Jehan paused, thinking as Joly focused his breathing, "bananas! You like bananas, right?"

Joly nodded. Bananas were a fruit he only got to eat in the Capital. They were sweet and soft, with a waxy skin he tried to eat the first time he was given one. Jehan was the person who taught him how to peel a banana. The outside, the peel, was not good to eat.

"It's so full of bananas, they're tumbling over the sides, so they won't miss any. You can eat as many as you want on your way home to me; I got permission from the driver." 

Slowly, Joly felt his body relax. The air came back to the room, and Jehan was next to him, whispering about all the different ways he could eat bananas. The truck had banana splits, banana boats, chocolate dipped bananas, fried bananas and plain bananas, because it was a special truck that Jehan designed just to make Joly feel better. 

"You two have thoughts on dinner?" Bahorel asked. 

Jehan stopped their soft reassuring rambling, growled and said, "I'm not eating dinner without Grantaire. He said he'd see me tonight, and I'm going to wait for him." 

Bahorel sighed, then started to do something Valjean called bargaining. Valjean and Javert thought that Bahorel, Feuilly and Grantaire didn't treat Jehan the right way, and that's why Jehan's head was sick. When Joly asked them if maybe Jehan could stay in their apartment, with Joly, so they could help make Jehan better, they both said no. Javert seemed to think that Jehan would hurt him, and Valjean called Jehan a Capital citizen like that was a bad thing. 

"What about a smoothie, though?" Bahorel asked, opening the freezer. 

Joly noticed that the television in the living room had been on the whole time. "Should we turn it off?" 

"It won't go off," Jehan shrugged. "The Games are mandatory viewing. Jolts is winning, so it's not so bad to watch." 

"Don't watch that, Joly," Bahorel scolded lightly. "I've got bananas and strawberries for a smoothie. Will you drink that?" 

"Okay," Joly turned his head to look toward the kitchen instead. 

"Only if you add chocolate syrup," Jehan giggled, grabbing Joly's hand under the blanket. "We're going to get dessert before dinner," Jehan whispered, giddy. 

"I will add chocolate if you promise you'll drink it." 

"I'll drink it," Joly said confidently. They had ice from the freezer, even in the summer. 

"I will," Jehan said, smiling at Joly. "Feuilly and Grantaire are coming back soon, right? They didn't leave?" 

"I heard Grantaire," Joly squeezed Jehan's hand. "He was with us before I had to go." 

"They didn't leave," Bahorel shouted over the whirl of the blender. "They're getting prepayment for sponsors, in case Jolts needs something overnight." 

"Why aren't you?" Jehan asked, climbing into Joly's lap, beneath the blanket. 

The blender stopped, and Bahorel hummed for a moment as liquid sloshed into cups. He came into the living room, two green plastic cups with wide straws poking out the sides, then sat on the couch. As he handed one to Joly and one to Jehan, he explained, "no one in that room with money really likes me. If I say I want someone to win, Valjean says it makes the sponsors wonder if they should spend the money." 

"I like you," Jehan said, straw in their mouth. 

"Me too," Joly agreed. 

"I appreciate that, but not everyone needs to like me. I don't think those people are good and I don't give a flying fuck what shitty people think of me." 

Joly nodded, drinking his smoothie quickly. Bahorel talked a lot about shitty people, but when Joly asked what made those people shitty, Bahorel couldn't describe it. They were just shitty, and that's how they were. 

Joly and Jehan were not shitty, according to Bahorel. Jehan could be a little shit, but that was different. Bahorel said it was a term of endearment, and Feuilly said it wasn't. Grantaire, when asked, just said it was true, but it wasn't a big deal.

They sat together. Jehan nestled against him and Bahorel occasionally reminded him not to look at the television. 

"Can I take a bath?" Joly asked, even though Bahorel explained multiple times that Joly could do whatever he wanted in Bahorel's apartment. According to Bahorel, Joly lived here, so he might as well make himself comfortable.

"Yeah, of course, man." 

Bahorel helped him to the bathroom. While the door was not wider, there were silver bars along the walls and in the tub, so Joly could be in there alone. Feuilly said they, meaning Grantaire, Feuilly and Bahorel, did it so Joly could have some privacy. If he was in his chair, he could leave it at the door and do his business without anyone helping at all. 

The water in the bath was hot. The soap smelled nice, and he just floated until the water was tepid. Tepid was when something was kind of warm, but it was also Jehan's feelings towards yogurt covered raisins and green beans. Tepid for Jehan meant that they'd eat it, but only if Grantaire asked them to. 

Joly, meanwhile, did not want to eat his bath water. 

When he got out of the tub, his pajamas were waiting. He got dressed in soft black pants with elastic around the waist and a plain white shirt with no buttons. When he opened the door, his wheelchair was waiting for him, right where he needed it. 

In the living room, Jehan slept in Grantaire's arms. Feuilly gave Joly a wave, which he returned with a smile, then looked back toward the television.

"You hungry?" Grantaire asked, adjusting Jehan against his chest. 

"No, Bahorel made us smoothies." 

Grantaire nodded, looking relieved, then said, "I don't want you to think we don't like you, but-" 

"I know you all like me," Joly said, still grinning. "Bahorel made me a smoothie with chocolate in it and you made me a blanket. If you didn't like me, you wouldn't be so nice." 

"Okay," Grantaire nodded again as Feuilly sunk a little deeper into the couch, eyes fixed forward. "You trust me?" 

Joly trusted all of them.

Well, there were certain scenarios in which he did not trust Bahorel. If Bahorel had a fruit or vegetable he wanted Joly to try and he wouldn't stop giggling, that was a trick. Bahorel called them pranks, but usually the food was sour or spicy. Other than that, Bahorel could be mean, but it seemed to be on accident. The incident with the jalapeno was on purpose. 

"So I need you not to watch TV again, until I say it's okay." 

Oh, that'd be easy. He went his whole life without television. Joly could definitely do that. "How long?" 

"Could be a couple days, but it could be a couple weeks," Grantaire shrugged. "I don't know. You'll have to keep going to watch parties, probably not for more than a day or two, but you need to not watch." 

"Who from 9 is still in?" Bahorel asked as Joly nodded. Grantaire didn't play pranks. 

"Boy," Feuilly said, eyes trained forward. 

"Can I ask a question?" Joly asked, which Bahorel, before, said was a question itself. Grantaire told him to shut the fuck up and let Joly talk, so Joly figured that asking to ask a question was fine.

"Of course."

"Is laryngitis contagious?" 

"Nah, you're not gonna give it to us," Bahorel said. "Me and Grantaire had laryngitis last year and you're not gonna give it to anyone, not unless you start boning. Anyway, you just gotta take a shit ton of medicine, and then it goes away," Bahorel explained, clasping Joly on the back. 

"We had hepatitis," Grantaire deadpanned. "You're an absolute fucking moron Bahorel, you know that?" Grantaire didn't wait for a response, he just looked at Joly. "You aren't sick, Joly. Laryngitis is a thing where you lose your voice. I lied so the Capital assholes wouldn't think you're rude." 

"You had hepatitis?" Feuilly asked as Joly let out a sigh of relief. Joly wasn't sick anymore, so that medicine this morning must have done what it was supposed to. 

"Yeah, probably from Thenardier. Dude's disgusting," Bahorel laughed. 

"Do I have hepatitis?" Feuilly groaned. 

"Probably not," Grantaire said. Probably not was not a no, and Feuilly looked as uncomfortable as Joly felt. "If you can sleep Joly, you should go to bed." 

Joly could sleep. He slept most of the day, but he was still tired. He told everyone goodnight, and they said it back, then Joly was on his way.

Metal scraped against the ground and Combeferre woke from his slumber. He fumbled for his bow in the dark, loaded an arrow, then fired in the direction of the noise, sight unseen. 

"We want an alliance!" a boy's voice cried out. 

Combeferre shot again, and the boy whimpered when struck. A girl yelled, and Combeferre, without his glasses, sprung to his feet, shoes still on. He grabbed his sword and readied himself to fight.

As his eyes adjusted, he saw three blurry figures, two on the ground. He went for the standing person first; they'd be more able to harm him. If he watched his footing, he'd be able to avoid attacks from someone already wounded. 

He slashed into the darkness and eventually met the resistance of flesh. The boy shouted for help, but there was no help coming. Everyone who could help, who could defeat Combeferre, was out of play. He hacked and swung until the cannon fired. 

The boy on the ground sobbed, but this was the mission. Combeferre struck him, feeling the blade slip into his body, then twisted the handle. He wedged it downward, then yanked upward, until finally, sweat cooling his neck, another cannon marked that it was over. 

The last figure, really just an outline in the moonlight, went quickly. Once they were announced as dead, Combeferre stopped. He didn't understand how Bahorel could find joy in this. He had been asleep, and now that plan was no longer viable.

Adrenalin kept him from sleeping. He grabbed his glasses and laid his wet sword against his lap as he waited for dawn on his bedroll. The sword, which he was sure was steel, smelled like copper.

"Here to retrieve the bodies," a digitized voice called out, flashing an LED flashlight toward Combeferre. The light then flashed on a figure clad in black armor. "I'm a peacekeeper." 

Combeferre nodded as the lights shone back toward him. He glanced down with the benefit of the light and saw his sword was stained a rusty red. He took the time and the light to reapply ointment to his wound. The peacekeeper was taking the bodies by their feet, and the light swung from side to side as the tributes were hauled away. 

Another package dinged from the sky, floating carefully to the ground. It landed on the other side of the new blood stains. 

The note read, "four tarps - Feuilly." 

Obviously, this one was a hidden message. Feuilly didn’t strike him as someone already informed of the rebellion, but perhaps he was. Maybe that’s why they had kissed, and why Feuilly was adding scribbled in hearts to his messages. He tucked the note away, then opened his package. Inside was a thin silver wire with sharp barbs. 

How was razor wire related to the tarps? Was he supposed to go venture out, cloaked in moonlight and shred the tarps? That's all razor wire did, just cut things up.

He couldn't think of any other rationale behind the note. When packing his bag, he took half his water, all of the apricots, two of the longer sections of rope, his electricians gloves, his medicine, a bow with ten arrows, and his sword. The bag was heavy, but not nearly as heavy as the wooden tables that Otto and Bell made him rearrange nightly. 

They'd have to take all the tables down into the basement after dinner, so there was space for dancing, then haul them back up before breakfast. The weight of his bag didn't compare. 

Hidden by the low light, Combeferre ventured off. Hopefully, no one would ransack his supplies, but if they did, that couldn’t be avoided he supposed. Feuilly gave him instructions to destroy some tarps, so he’d do just that. 

Everything was just a dull grey, for as far as Combeferre could see. He wished they would have given them flashlights. Maybe the other tributes had them, but he didn’t see any in the supplies. He’d check to see if the next tribute he neutralized had a light source. Even just a lantern or some matches, though if there was something electrified he could make a torch out of a broken bow.

He didn’t think destroying tarps overrode the instructions from Bell and Otto to win the Games. They were technically instructions for Courfeyrac, but he’d complete the mission this year in Courfeyrac’s stead. This was to help Courfeyrac later. He could send cryptic messages about tarps and objectives.

Feuilly would have told him if the tarps were first priority, or someone would have. There would have been some sort of signal in the notes, and he’d thought about the first one, and there was no change of plans evident. Tarps weren’t mission critical, but Feuilly made a note to mention them. 

Walking without making too much noise was easy on concrete. He stood on his toes, moving slowly, and sometimes something would crunch but it wasn’t like Otto warned woods would be. Combeferre never experienced woods first hand, but the dried Solstice tree in January chopped into small pieces shifted underneath his feet as he walked over it. The branches would crack, like a wooden spoon striking him, and Courfeyrac, blind folded, he would be able to point to exactly where in the room Combeferre was standing. 

Gravel on concrete was a softer sound. Or it wasn’t softer, but it wasn’t as easy to track. Combeferre listened to rocks on concrete for his whole life, and he couldn’t tell where a bully on asphalt was by sound alone. If he could have, he would have had a better time in childhood.

“We’re going to die,” someone sobbed. Their breath came in pants and Combeferre froze in place. Around him was a three story building, a walkup apartment like the kind by the toaster factory, with no windows. Or there were windows, but they had no glass. They seemed like they were smashed, but a long time ago. 

“Shhh,” another voice whispered. 

Combeferre angled his head upward as the sun started to peak over the horizon. He squinted, a glare on his glasses and saw three shadows thrown upon a back wall of a second story room by an electrical object, be it a flashlight, battery operated lantern, or a lamp in the room. The tributes, which he couldn’t see from this angle, were huddled together, one with their head in their hands, and the others touching that figure’s back.

There was a door around the front of the building. The stairs would creak, and if they were halfway intelligent, they would have trapped the door. Combeferre, if he’d chosen a building as his temporary operations base, would have completed an electrical circuit with the metal doorknob. He had gloves, but he didn’t want to give up his advantage.

There was also a window with no glass directly above a first floor window with wooden shutters. If he climbed onto the ledge, then he could test the shutters and see if they'd hold his weight. In the event it worked, he could balance on top of them, then sword in his spare hand, pull himself up through the second story window where the tributes were. 

It would give him an advantage if he was able to surprise the group. 

When he walked closer to the dull brick building, he realized the mortar that held everything in place had receded enough for him to simply scale the bricks. A simpler plan was a better plan, or that's what Otto told Courfeyrac when he had an idea for a robot that could sweep the floor. 

Courfeyrac had frowned, and for some reason, Combeferre, when they were in bed that night, told Courfeyrac that it was a good idea. Why had he said that? Combeferre could sweep, and it was frivolous, but the smile Courfeyrac gave him made his stomach flip. 

Combeferre needed to focus on the Games, not the way Courfeyrac's lips looked in the dark. 

He stuffed the sword through the back of his backpack, letting it create a hole. He had spare backpacks at the Cornucopia and he needed both hands to scale the outside of this building.

Someone inside continued to cry as he slotted his fingers into the space between the bricks. He made sure his breathing was softer than the crying as he climbed upward. In this situation, it was fine to go slowly. He was in no immediate danger. 

When he peeked through the window, he saw the flashlight pointing toward them laying flat on the edge of a coffee table. It wasn't particularly large, but it was bright. He could use it to look for those tarps Feuilly mentioned. 

His sword clattered against the wire in his bag as his feet touched the ground. 

There went his advantage. 

All three tributes gasped, then shot their heads upward, bending their necks at angles that seemed uncomfortable. One of them, a girl with pigtails, had a nose that looked like Courfeyrac's beneath the odd skew of the flashlight. Things weren't supposed to be illuminated from a right angle and it must have confused him. 

"Please don't hurt us," the girl, who in all reality probably had a nose that looked nothing like Courfeyrac's, wailed. 

The children - tributes, they were tributes, nodded. He had an objective, a mission, and it involved removing them from the Game. Only one person got to win, and this time, he was going to win. 

He grabbed his sword, still red with blood he hadn't seen the point of polishing off, and swung. He looked at their shadows on the wall to make sure his blows were hitting, because he couldn't look at them. He especially couldn't look at the girl who shouldn't have resembled Courfeyrac at all. 

Eventually three cannons sounded. 

Combeferre clicked the flashlight off, then shoved it in his bag. Quickly, he shoved the electricians gloves onto his hands, just in case any part of the building was trapped. If anyone else was here, the screaming children - tributes, because that's what they were, not children, tributes, gave away his position. 

Sword dragging against the old carpet, he left. There didn't seem to be any traps, but he kept his gloves on as he walked back to the Cornucopia. 

When he got back, everything was untouched and the sun was high in the sky. He'd wasted half the day, and he hadn't found a single tarp. It was time for rations and water, and he hadn't accomplished any of it. 

He could, and would, worry about the implications of the mysterious tarps after he finished a flask of water. Dehydration was deadly, and he was hungry enough to eat jerky, even though he hated it. 

As he rested on his bedroll, the contents of his bag strewn about the Cornucopia and the punctured bag thrown to the side, he reapplied his salve. His back hardly hurt, but the wound needed to stay moist. He could be here for weeks, and if the skin on his back started to snag and pull, that'd be a nuisance. 

His body ached from tiredness, and he decided that if he put his weapons out as a warning, he could sleep. Combeferre didn't usually get luxuries like naps, so he'd have to be sure not to get used to such decadence. 

He slept above the blankets. The sun was warm, and he didn't need to be encumbered by an extra layer if he needed to strike. He closed his eyes for all of ten minutes before he remembered what a mess his space was. He needed to tidy things up. 

So he reinventoried everything, putting the weapons along the wall, and arranging them by height. He decided it best to keep his flashlight next to his bedroll, along with his sword, his bow and 10 arrows, and his fully packed back. 

He sat down when it was done, ate and drank, walked away to relieve himself in relative cover, then laid out the weapons. The sky was a ruddy red as the sun set, like the stains inside the Cornucopia. The start of dusk was close enough to night to sleep.

Once he got his eyes closed again, the anthem started playing. He scrambled to his feet, socks damp with sweat from spending so long in shoes, and stood at the edge of the Cornucopia so he could see the faces in the sky. 

With a hand over his heart, he realized he was the reason all five faces were projected onto the arena. And, full of dread, he realized that the girl he saw, the one who seemed to have Courfeyrac's nose, sort of did have Courfeyrac's nose. It wasn't as striking a similarity when her photo was taken from the proper angle, but it was there.

When he went back to sleep, he couldn't. He tried laying on his side, holding a spare bedroll to pretend Courfeyrac was with him, and using two bedrolls as Courfeyrac. He couldn't rest, though, it was like his mind would not let him stop thinking. 

That girl could have been Courfeyrac, he thought as he squeezed his eyes tight. When Courfeyrac played, someone might climb in through a window and eliminate him. No one would be there to warn him, and Courfeyrac was not great at staying on task, not without reminders. Courfeyrac would be just like those chi- tributes, huddled in the light of a flashlight, and someone with more skills would come and end his chances. 

Courfeyrac just needed not to play. He couldn't play alone. Otto and Bell would understand, and they could just train someone new, someone Combeferre didn't already know. Instead of playing, Courfeyrac could move in with Combeferre, and he could even have his own room if he wanted. 

And if he wanted, which Combeferre hoped he did, Courfeyrac could share a bed. They could kiss each other stupid, like Feuilly had showed him. He'd never touched Courfeyrac's butt before and he thought he'd like it. Heat pooled in Combeferre's belly and groin just imagining it. 

After as long as he could bear to spend laying still on his bedroll, eyes closed, he decided it was best to just go find the tarps. 

Maybe they were important. Surely they were if Feuilly mentioned them. He grabbed his bag and readied himself to patrol. At least tarps were something tangible, and he'd know if he found them or not. It was a very simple directive, and focusing on that might give him some reprieve.

"Holy fuck!" Feuilly screamed, startling Joly out of his sleep.

The sun was just starting to rise.

Feuilly must have been having a nightmare. 

Joly sat up, moved himself to his chair, then rushed to the living room to help. Feuilly needed him, and he could help. 

"I'm sending a truck," Joly babbled as he swung the bedroom door open. "Let me know when it gets to you." 

Feuilly, Grantaire, Bahorel and Jehan were all on the couch, staring at the TV, open mouthed. Joly wasn't supposed to look at the TV, but everyone, except for Jehan, seemed so upset. But they weren't crying, and no one was having a panic attack. Feuilly's face was something bad, but it wasn't his 'I wish I were dead,' face.

Maybe he didn't need Joly after all, and he just got woken up on accident.

"That's why you don't cry in the arena," Jehan said, smiling a little.

"Yeah," Grantaire nodded, eyes not leaving the screen as someone on TV screamed. 

"Joly, go to bed." Bahorel frowned, looking at him. He didn't seem mad at Joly, but he seemed very serious. Bahorel was rarely serious without being angry. He reached for the remote, still looking in Joly's eyes, and he did something called muting the TV. It just turned off the sound but not the pictures. 

"I got him a sponsor, after they woke him up. I got him razor wire for traps! I ran down to give him a package, and now he's fucking, climbing a goddamn building! We don't even start until fucking 10 am! It's Capital time; these assholes do not wake up early!" Feuilly covered his face with his hands, then screamed in frustration. 

"Joly won't have to go," Grantaire whispered as they all flinched, except for Jehan. Feuilly closed his eyes completely.

"I should make an appearance, pretend to be upset and all that shit,'' Bahorel sighed as Jehan grabbed Grantaire's waist tighter.

Jehan's lower lip quivered, "I don't want to be alone." 

"Joly's gonna stay," Feuilly explained and Jehan relaxed a little. "You two can do whatever you usually do when you're alone." 

"Play music?" Jehan asked, smiling a little as they looked at Joly. Joly nodded back, because playing music was very fun. "Can we build a fort and read?" 

"If Joly wants to," Grantaire said, stroking Jehan's cheek with his thumb. "You can go back to bed, I don't have to get ready for an hour." 

"Why do you have to go?" Jehan whined, squeezing their eyes shut and frowning. "Those goddamn assholes from 8 were out in the first twenty minutes." 

"Don't say goddamn asshole," Grantaire sighed. Bahorel smiled, his lips twitching upward.

Sometimes Bahorel and Grantaire disagreed on what was funny. Joly never understood it, so he usually just laughed a little bit. No one ever got sour with him, especially not Grantaire. 

Grantaire was always kind to Joly.

"I said goddamn assholes," Jehan explained, rubbing the sleep from their eyes. "I used the plural, and you said not to say it singularly. I didn't break your rule." 

Bahorel laughed harder, then mused Jehan's long hair until it was fuzzy. When Jehan slept they pulled their hair out of it's braid, letting it fall to the middle of their back. It was very easy to mess up and usually they whined about tangles and knots, but not when they were half awake. Jehan barely complained at all about anything when Grantaire was holding them. 

Once when Joly first started living in the apartment building, after the doctors removed his leg, he asked Grantaire to hold him. Bahorel laughed, and called him a baby. Feuilly said that Joly was just overwhelmed and wanted a hug, and if Bahorel wasn't so macho all the time, he'd know that physical touch was soothing. Bahorel snorted in response and said Feuilly would know about physical touch, then called him a faggot, which was a word Grantaire explained Joly could never say. 

Grantaire also explained that Joly was not allowed to punch Bahorel in the teeth like Feuilly. In Grantaire's exact words, "Bahorel could whoop your ass." Bahorel said he could whoop Feuilly's ass too, but he never did, not where Joly could see.

Maybe Jehan would let him braid their hair. That could be a fun way to spend the day. Their hair was soft, and brilliant orange, like Joly had never seen before. It wasn't dyed like the people he saw on TV; Jehan's hair grew straight from their head that color. 

"I gotta get ready," Grantaire said, lifting Jehan off his lap. "I might be out late, but Bahorel will be back soon." 

"Okay," Jehan whispered, but Joly knew they meant don't go. They never wanted Grantaire to go anywhere. 

Jehan waited until the elevator carried Grantaire up to his apartment to start crying. Bahorel told Jehan to shush, then pointed toward the TV. Feuilly rolled his eyes, but gave Jehan two pats on the shoulder. 

"Can I take another bath?" Joly asked. 

The answer was yes. It was always yes, but he asked anyway. 

He soaked in the bathtub until his fingers shriveled up like raisins, then stayed for a while longer. The bath was relaxing. It was the most relaxed he ever felt. It was like he didn't have any bones when he was in the water. 

He dried off, then got ready for the day. He wore a blue collared shirt with khaki pants, because Valjean and Javert agreed that it made him look handsome. He didn't need to look handsome, but it was nice to be complimented.

When Joly opened the door he noticed a soft whimper coming from the couch. As soon as he was situated in his wheelchair, Joly rushed to the noise. Underneath a bright orange blanket a less bright head of orange hair popped out, eyes red rimmed.

"What happened, buddy?" Joly asked, frowning. 

"Joly?" Jehan looked around the room before their eyes focused. "Joly is here." 

"Yeah, I'm here with you." 

Jehan frowned, but nodded. It wasn't that Jehan didn't like Joly, because clearly they did. They loved Joly, and they said it all the time. 

"We're in Bahorel's apartment," Jehan said as they held their own hand. "You and me." 

"We are!" Joly smiled. Sometimes Jehan forgot where they were, but it was nice when they knew. It wasn't Jehan's fault if they were delusional, but it made Joly feel warm when they could figure it out. 

"I'm really tired," Jehan complained, rubbing their eyes. "I can't sleep." 

"Hmm," Joly knew what that was like. "Nightmares?" 

Joly knew that Jehan had nightmares. Jehan would scream and kick in their sleep, then wake up crying and ready to fight. They had to be reoriented before they could start their day. Usually Grantaire did that, but sometimes Joly helped, especially when Grantaire was tired.

Jehan nodded, sucking his cheeks between his teeth. "Need Grantaire," they mumbled, "can't sleep." 

"You want a hug?" 

There wasn't much Joly could do besides give Jehan a hug. That's all he could offer. Jehan liked hugs, but their favorite hugs were from Grantaire. 

"Uh huh," Jehan sat all the way up, then patted the couch. "Please?" 

"You have really good manners," Joly complimented Jehan, because everyone liked being complimented. "Of course I will." 

Jehan, dressed in their green dog pajamas, the ones where Grantaire embroidered necklaces and tiaras on every single puppy with magenta thread, waited until Joly was sitting on the couch. Once Joly was settled, Jehan and their blanket were settled on top of his lap.

"I just want to go to sleep," Jehan whispered, rubbing their face against Joly's shirt. "I'm tired. Hold me?" 

Joly could do that. He sat on the couch for almost an hour, reassuring Jehan that they could sleep, that it was okay. Joly told Jehan stories from when he lived with Bulgur and Baah, just to make noise. Jehan liked when people talked to them. 

"So Bulgur had bees," Joly explained, being careful not to glance at the TV. "I told you about the bees, but he had bees. And bees make honey, but they also are pollinators. Being a pollinator means that they make all the fruit and vegetables grow really big. They were always really nice. Remember when we saw bees at the garden?" 

"Uh-huh," Jehan mumbled, their face still pressed against Joly's chest. "'Taire got me a stuffed bumblebee. Beep has a happy face." 

"Yeah!" Joly nodded, excited but trying to keep his voice down so Jehan could sleep. "He got me one, too. We have matching bees. Do you remember the hive? That was so cool. Our hive," it wasn't his, he shouldn't have said our, since Bulgur was mad at him, "I couldn't see through it. There wasn't glass where you could see the bees work and do their jobs." 

"I remember." 

"That was a really fun day," Joly agreed. "I like spending my days with you." 

"Me too." 

In a quiet lull, where Jehan was not asleep but their breathing was even, Joly's eyes caught the television. He knew that Grantaire told him not to watch, but it was on, and he was hugging Jehan. It wasn't like Joly could go anywhere, not without Jehan getting upset, and they were already upset so often. He didn't want to be the reason Jehan felt bad again. 

On the TV one of the strangers that stayed in their apartment building walked through a big city. The stranger wasn't either of the strangers that stayed with Valjean and Javert, but Joly had seen this person. Joly and Feuilly knocked on her door, and gave her books, because Feuilly didn't want the strangers to be bored. 

That whole experience had been so odd. Grantaire made him memorize a couple lines, and he was supposed to introduce himself as Galen Joly, the Victor from 9, even though that was an odd introduction. And Grantaire just told him not to say anything else really, besides, you should ask Valjean, but it was so odd not to talk at all when you were alone in a room with someone. 

That was Jolts, Joly realized, feeling his hands start to tremble. Jolts was dragging a red sword through a city that was as broken as the barn behind his house. Jolts was the one who said the weird stuff that made less sense than normal at the table, then pinned Bahorel to the ground. 

Why was Jolts on their TV? 

"Joly, are you watching?" Bahorel asked. 

Joly didn't even notice the elevator, and it was so loud. He always heard the ding and the electricity. He never could ignore the elevator, and he hadn't even heard it. 

"I'm gonna send a truck," Jehan mumbled as Joly realized he couldn't breathe. How long had his lungs been like this? Forever? It felt like forever. "Shhh, Joly, it's 'kay. Jolts is 'kay. Jolts and us are all gonna be friends."

"I'm not on team lie to you," Bahorel said, collapsing onto the couch and wrapping an arm around Joly's shoulder. "I think that you deserve the truth, and knowing all the bad shit will make your life easier." 

Joly couldn't breathe. He was drowning on land. His lungs were filling with water, and that's why his chest hurt when he tried to inhale. 

"Jolts is in the Hunger Games," Bahorel explained as Joly wheezed. "Every year, the Capital picks 24 kids and they fight until there's only one kid left. We all won our Game, so now we have to train the next group of children, in like service to the Capital. I'm pretty sure it's just to constantly traumatize us, but they say it's to show our gratitude." 

They fought? Like wrestling? Sometimes Bahorel and Feuilly wrestled with the door shut, and Joly was not allowed to open the door. He did once, and Bahorel was pinned face down, with Feuilly biting at his ear. They were both beneath the blankets, but Feuilly was clearly winning. He watched for a few moments, until Feuilly noticed Joly was there after he both groaned and shuddered. 

He had just been trying to get Feuilly because he felt like he felt right now, and they had an agreement. He'd had a nightmare about the movie they watched, the one where Feuilly was up in a tree at the end with a gun. They never talked about the movie, but they had a long discussion about knocking on closed bedroom doors. 

"Joly, I'm giving you some medicine," Bahorel sighed. "Open your mouth." 

Joly listened, because he seemed to be having a heart attack. When Joly hid in the linen closet during hide and seek, Grantaire opened the door, wet from a shower, and said Joly almost gave him a heart attack. Joly didn't know what that was, and Grantaire explained it was when a person's heart stopped working. 

Clearly, Joly's heart was no longer working.

Bahorel's fingers were in his mouth, and they were probably covered in germs. There must have been so many germs. He'd get an infection, and then he'd have to go back to the hospital and stay in bed for a week, and maybe they'd even have to chop off his other leg. 

"Dude," Bahorel sighed, scooping Joly into his arms, "I get that, like, if you didn't grow up with this, that it's hard to understand. Like, I'm twenty-one, and I've known my whole life this is a thing we do, but I don't know why. I mean, I know why, it's so the Districts don't rebel again and to prevent war, but I don't understand how this prevents war. I wouldn't think killing a bunch of kids stops other people from killing other people, but it's not our job- we're not allowed to question shit. We're not supposed to think about it, we're supposed to sit there and be eye candy for the Capital." 

What did that even mean? Bahorel was taking him to bed, Bahorel's bed, not his own. "We keep trying to explain it, and you can't," Bahorel sighed, gently placing Joly underneath the blankets then tucking him in, "I just want you to understand." 

"I'm gonna lay with you," Jehan whispered, climbing onto the bed as Joly hyperventilated. "We're best friends even if you don't understand. I think you're very nice." 

"Joly is very nice," Bahorel sighed, and his weight as he sat made the whole bed sag. "I just want him to understand, for next year." 

"I might come back," Jehan kissed Joly's forehead. Joly felt so dizzy that he could hardly keep up. What was happening next year? Was Jehan leaving? For where?

"Even if you do," Bahorel's voice was hard, like a peacekeeper, "which you might fucking not, you're gonna be different. Probably for the worse, and like, I just want him to know what's fucking happening. I can't answer 'where's Jehan?' twice a day, and neither can Feuilly. And the reminders will probably kill Grantaire, so I need Joly, you, Joly, to get with the fucking program."

"Right now the Hunger Games are happening. There are 6 tributes left alive, and one of them is Jolts. If Jolts wins, Jolts will come live in the apartment building with us. If Jolts loses, another one of them will come. We're not going to be able to explain that you never played in a Game to this new person."

"We can tell Jolts," Jehan whispered, using the corner of the blanket to wipe a tear from Joly's cheek. Joly felt his chest loosen enough to take good, deep breaths, but he was far away. It was like Jehan and Bahorel were talking to him while his head was underwater.

"We can probably tell Jolts," Bahorel nodded. "Probably, yeah. Grantaire and Feuilly think he's cool." 

"Joly needs to go to sleep," Jehan said, climbing underneath the blanket with him. Jehan's body was warm and the flannel of their pajamas was soft against his forearms. "I'm gonna keep watch, so you'll be safe." 

"I can keep fucking watch," Bahorel said, the bed bouncing as he stood. "I'm gonna keep an eye on the Game, and I can watch you two through the door." 

"What about the window?" Jehan asked, yawning as Joly felt his eyes close. "Can't forget the window." 

"It's bolted shut so Feuilly doesn't swan dive out onto the pavement" Bahorel used his peacekeeper voice again.

Swimming on the ground was impossible. Joly took a few extra moments to process Bahorel's comment about Feuilly, then realized it was about Feuilly wanting to hurt himself. "The last time he came to get me was two weeks ago," Joly slurred. His body felt very heavy. "He woke me up, and he cried and asked me to sit with him, so I did. We didn't talk, but then he went back to your bed. He said he felt better." 

Bahorel sighed then groaned, then said, "two weeks, that little buttfucking liar." 

"Be nice to Feuilly," Jehan shushed as they wrapped their arms around Joly's waist. "I love you, Bahorel." 

"Uh-huh, I'll be nice," Bahorel huffed. "Goodnight you two. Please fucking sleep, Jehan." 

"I love you, Bahorel," Jehan repeated. 

"I love you, Bahorel," Joly slurred, his body already heavy with exhaustion. "Love you, too, Joly." 

"Yeah, rest, both of you."

TW at the end for violence related things if you think you'll need it.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Combeferre patted his legs as he walked through the city. The moon was still full, even though it was a new day. Would the moon in this arena always be full? 

He did not waste the battery on his flashlight as he looked for tarps. Sometimes he'd flash it on quickly when he thought he saw something, but it went right back off to conserve battery.

He'd walked for what felt like hours, not that he had a reliable gauge of time. He listened for other tributes, but he couldn't stop patting his legs. Maybe they heard him coming and fled, or he couldn't hear their soft noises because he was being so loud. It was ridiculous he couldn't stop. 

If he were at the inn with Otto and Bell, they would have reprimanded him. He might have even received multiple reprimands, which was just not something Combeferre ever needed. One punishment was enough. 

He was well behaved, at least according to the Bishop. Not that the Bishop's opinion mattered anymore, since he was dead. Maybe next year Courfeyrac would be dead, too. 

Combeferre couldn't think this way in the arena. He was so clearly distracted that he'd be what Otto and Bell called a soft target. Anyone who wanted to harm him in current distracted state would have a clear advantage. He needed to focus. 

A noise came from inside the building and Combeferre came to attention, both hands on his sword. It was a chorus of animalistic screeching followed by a human screaming. Combeferre listened from the street, and considered turning on his flashlight. 

A light would give his coordinates away, and he didn't want that. 

Combeferre did the only thing he could think to do; freeze. 

He listened to the human screams become more desperate and the animal sounds seemed to grow wet, like a ladle of soup splattering into a bowl. The person, seemingly a boy, was not saying words, not that Combeferre could understand from his place in the middle of the street, just nonsense. Loud nonsense and crying. 

And then it stopped.

Not the animal sounds, those continued. The chittering and screeching, then sounds of eating, the gnashing of teeth; it had to be a group of animals, not just one. A cannon sounded and Combeferre choked up on his sword. 

That sound was a muttation. 

Or, more likely, a group of muttations. Unless these mutts were like a hydra, where it was one being with multiple sentient heads. He’d seen a hydra in one of the Bishop’s religion books, and he brought the picture to the Bishop, pointing to the dragon snake being. The Bishop, misunderstanding what Combeferre wanted, which was a fairly common occurrence especially when he was young and less eager to speak, assured him that the hydra was pretend and couldn’t hurt him. 

Combeferre had just wanted to know where Lake Lerna was and if he could visit. He’d thought it was maybe in District 3, and when he was older, perhaps he could get a job in a factory by Lake Lerna. He’d never been to a lake before. 

The sound of chewing was replaced with a skittering sound, and Combeferre, ever so briefly, turned on his flashlight and pointed it toward the building. He shoved it back in his bag as soon as he saw yellow eyes reflecting light. This animal had a tapetum lucidum, or an extra tissue in the eyes to enable vision in the dark. 

Whatever these were could see Combeferre, even if he couldn’t see them.

The animals trilled like birds, then a shadowy figure in front reared up on its hind legs. Combeferre flicked his flashlight on again, to get a better assessment of the group of animals, and immediately recognized them as raccoons. 

Courfeyrac thought raccoons were cute, and hated to shoo them away from the dumpster, even though they were nuisances and destroyed the trash bags, flinging debris all over the road. Courfeyrac didn’t seem to care about that, he just cared how little their paws were and how they looked like tiny robbers. Being a robber wasn’t desirable, and these animals in front of Combeferre, all six of them, were covered in blood. Raccoons were omnivores, so he supposed they could eat a tribute, though he’d never seen anything like that in 3. Sometimes they’d get a squirrel, but only when the thing was already almost dead, wounded by some stray cat. 

Also, he’d never seen six raccoons operating in tandem. They were clever; smart enough to remove the wooden dowel that Combeferre wedged into the top of the dumpster. The inn had three raccoons, and they destroyed everything they found worthy of their time. Raccoons were not to be trifled with, even the ones that were not muttations. 

Another cannon went off as the raccoons were still in Combeferre’s light. Unless someone else was hunting around for those tarps, whatever good those were, they were probably being taken out by these beasts. At only a foot tall, they didn’t seem particularly dangerous to someone who was not aware. 

Combeferre, though, he was aware.

He would let them move first, and then he’d drop the flash light and swing. They’d die after a few body blows, wouldn’t they? The raccoons back home tended to shy away from Combeferre. They’d run right up to Courfeyrac, and he’d hand feed them, like a maniac. 

Courfeyrac would have died in this arena, Combeferre was sure of it. Courfeyrac could never play in the Games. He’d die. Sending him alone into an environment like this was certain death, and he’d have to tell Otto and Bell. And he’d have to make them listen, because this was important. 

He was so caught up in Courefyrac’s safety that Combeferre forgot his own. This was a natural consequence of a poor choice on his part. This is what Otto and Bell warned about and this is what would happen to Courfeyrac.

A raccoon, the one who was in the front, leapt to Combeferre before he could react. This vermin, this animal who ate discarded scraps of rotting food, tracked another tribute’s blood up Combeferre’s uniform, then started to claw at his face. He swung his sword once, before deciding that he could not hit himself in his own face with a weapon.

No, that’d be costly. He instead let his sword clatter to the ground, along with the long discarded flashlight, and ripped the creature from his face. He threw it as far as he could and it hit the ground with a crack. 

At first, when he heard the crack, he was pleased. He supposed it was bones of the animal breaking, or something similar, because perhaps muttations did not have bones. He’d never seen a textbook on muttations, so he couldn’t be certain what lay beneath the fur. He presumed bones, or some other bone like structure, because it’s not like the raccoon, even this mutt, had an exoskeleton. There were only so many ways for a being to operate in the world. 

It wasn't until the ground below him, where his sword fell, was blurry, did he realize his mistake. That raccoon had taken his glasses, and then, in Combeferre’s rush to free himself, he’d destroyed them. 

Combeferre found his sword with his hands, touching the ground until he felt the cool metal, then quickly skimming his fingers down the blade until he made contact with the handle. He was fast, but diligent as another raccoon tried to scurry up his leg, claws puncturing his leg. He cleaved its head in two, as far as he could tell with his limited vision, then kicked the animal away. 

For the rest of them, the ones in the distance circling him, he swung blindly. When he connected with something, he brought his sword down harder. In all likelihood he was dealing more blows to these than was strictly necessary, but their claws were sharp and he was not in the mood to be scratched for a third time. 

A third cannon sounded, and he wondered if these things were supposed to be so deadly. He couldn’t remember a game where three tributes were killed in quick succession by roving muttations. They’d usually get one, maybe two tributes, then go into a mandated hibernation for a night or two. There was a pattern to mutts, and these raccoons, they weren’t following it. 

They also were not going down, it seemed, as the sun crested. He’d successfully killed two, but the remaining four, they continued to charge at him. They’d go in groups of two, where they’d flank him, then dart between his legs and scratch when he tried to attack. They were wounded, or at least bloody, though it could have been his blood or the other tribute, but they continued to attack. 

When another cannon fired, he was exhausted. The same four kept circling him, and though he couldn’t see them clearly, he was baffled as to why they weren’t dead. Was he not connecting? That must have been the problem. His legs ached and he could feel blood in his socks from all the cuts on his legs. Only the first one had gotten past his waist, but the others seemed to be content enough to just scratch at his calves. 

How many tributes were left? He hadn’t kept track. He didn’t think it’d matter. He was clearly the most skilled, and here he was, being bested by raccoons. How long could they fight? Was it longer than he could? He hadn’t gotten any sleep, thanks to Courfeyrac, and he’d been off guard, thanks to Courfeyrac, and now he was going to be eaten by raccoons. 

His shoulders heaved as he tried to catch his breath. 

He could tell his blows were not connecting. The sword scraped against the concrete at times, and he wondered, as the sun sat directly above him, why these creatures would not give up. He tried to do a count, to see how many were left, but he spun in a circle and simply made himself dizzy. 

There seemed to be more than the original six. Maybe he’d killed a few, maybe even the first six, and they just kept adding numbers to their ranks. His shoulders hunched forward as he continued to swing. By this point, his muscles ached so badly that he could hardly bring the sword up to his chest, but he had to at least try. 

Not trying in the Hunger Games was a certain way to be maimed. 

He needed to win so he could explain to Otto and Bell that Courfeyrac couldn’t play. Under no circumstances could Courfeyrac be placed in the arena. Combeferre never should have gone either. It was asinine to send anyone into the Hunger Games arena as a spy, the whole idea was stupid. 

There was no point to the entire Games, not that Combeferre could see. He’d watched every single Game, too, and there never seemed to be a point. He never felt relief or happiness at the end, he just felt dread. People were going to watch him be torn asunder by raccoons and they’d be ordered to look. 

Perhaps the forcing people to watch was a point, and not actually the Games. Maybe the Games were just a distraction to the things people were being forced to do; go to the factory and work from sun up to sun down six days a week, have two kids or pay the yearly tax, listen to the Capital, listen to the Rebels. Maybe it was all just a big distraction so Combeferre would misplace his attention and focus on the wrong thing. 

A raccoon sunk its teeth into Combeferre’s Achilles tendon, and he thought, briefly, that there was no point at all. He was being killed by raccoons simply to show that he could be killed by raccoons. And he’d killed, that’s what he did, he killed those children, which was what they were, not tributes or enemies or combatants but children, to show he could. 

Combeferre was capable of killing people.

And somehow he was incapable of killing raccoons. 

There were a lot of things that he simply wasn’t capable of doing. He’d never be good at speeches, or with people, nor would he be as fast as Courfeyrac or as smart. He could kill people though, and that’s what the Capital wanted. It was also what the Rebels wanted. 

The Rebels and the Capital wanted the same things from him, which was confusing. 

Those two groups seemed like they ought to be a Venn Diagram with no overlap, no matter how trivial. And wanting a person to kill other people, that didn’t seem trivial, no matter how long Bell spent explaining it as such. Both the Rebels and the Capital had agreed that it’d be alright if Combeferre was to die. The Rebels had counted on it; the mission was a success if Courfeyrac won. He was only being sent to keep Courfeyrac on task and protect him from danger until it came time to sacrifice himself in the line of duty.

The raccoon on his leg continued to chew, and he tried to kick it away, but he couldn’t. It had stuck to his ankle like a tick, and he lacked the strength to keep swinging his sword. In all honesty, he was fairly certain he lacked the strength to stand, though he was still on his feet. 

Another cannon sounded, and the raccoon on Combeferre’s leg released its grip. It was evening, with the manufactured sky a dusty pink as the sun set. The other raccoons, just fuzzy figures, retreated into the tree line, and Combeferre collapsed onto the ground, exhausted. 

“The winner of the 48th Hunger Games, Faraday ‘Jolts’ Combeferre.”

Combeferre kills a bunch of animals.

“The Game Maker wants us,” Grantaire said, popping his head into Joly’s room. “Get dressed.”

The sun wasn’t in his window and a small body was pressed against Joly’s side. It was so peculiar. People in the Capital never rose before the sun. Not to mention Feuilly was taller than him, and anytime they shared a bed Feuilly never wrapped his arms around Joly’s waist. 

“All of us?” Jehan squeaked, burrowing their face into Joly’s side beneath the blankets. 

“Good morning, Jehan,” Joly cooed, pulling back the blankets until Jehan’s face was visible. Their eyes were red rimmed with purple smudges beneath, like they didn’t sleep at all. “Did you sleep well?” 

“Did you hear? The Game Maker wants us,” Grantaire repeated, hands on his hips as Joly climbed out of bed. “Everyone, even you, Jehan.” 

“If he wanted me, then I wouldn't live with you,” Jehan whispered. 

Joly didn’t know what that was about, but Jehan seemed wounded, like when Bahorel pinned them when wrestling and accidentally used his entire body weight. Grantaire, for his part, sighed, then shut the door. 

“I just want to go to sleep,” Jehan whined as they burrowed into the blankets on Joly’s bed. “I can’t sleep without Grantaire.” 

“Maybe you can take a nap in his lap,” Joly said, grabbing onto his dresser as he sorted through his clothes for something to wear. 

The Game Maker, despite having a name that involved games, was a very serious man. If Joly was someone who made games, he would have wanted people to wear exciting clothes to visit, since games were supposed to be fun. If Joly was the Game Maker, he would have let Jehan stay in their princess nightgown. It was fun, with every princess holding nunchucks stitched in black thread, and games were supposed to be entertaining. 

On the edge of his bed, Joly dressed himself in a black polo shirt and khaki pants. Joly’s clothes were boring. He asked Grantaire to add what Jehan called pizzazz to his shirt, and Grantaire just stared at him, blankly. Feuilly was the one who pulled him aside and explained that Joly was sixteen, not ten, and he didn’t need a shirt embroidered with trains. 

Joly disagreed. He hadn’t even known what a train was until he got to the Capital and really they were fascinating. There were trains beneath the Capital and they took people and things from place to place so they didn’t have to walk. Javert said they were not allowed to take the trains, because it was a security risk, but Joly got to watch a documentary with Jehan about how the people in 6 made trains. Someone had to make all the pieces, then someone else, a lot of someones really, had to put it all together, and then an entirely different group had to drive them from place to place. 

Jehan was learning to do needlework, and Jehan would agree that a train shirt was absolutely something Joly needed. Jehan and Joly agreed on most matters of fashion. 

“Are you getting dressed?” Grantaire asked through the closed door. 

“I’m dressed,” Joly announced, sitting on the side of the bed. “I need my wheelchair.” 

“Are you dressed, Jehan?” 

Jehan, who was not dressed, did not answer. 

“I’ll pick out your outfit?” Grantaire knocked on the door, even though Joly and Jehan both knew Grantaire was there. Knocking was for announcing yourself, at least according to Feuilly, but they both knew. 

“Why should I have to go?” Jehan rubbed their eyes as they sat up. 

Joly was under the impression that Jehan hated to be alone. They talked about how lonely they were constantly, and they cried when placed anywhere without company. This was odd behavior.

“Do you want to stay?” 

Jehan’s face soured, and they shook their head from side to side. Grantaire couldn’t see that from the other side of the door, but Joly could. “Is he going to kill me himself? You promised that I had until next year.” 

Oh, this was what Bahorel was talking about last night. “Are you dying?” Joly asked as worry constricted in his chest. 

He thought of everyone he knew who died, like Anadama and Baah, but they were old. It was surprising when they died. Bulgur explained that old people were supposed to die, but the girl in the Metro, she died and she was young. She died because of other people. 

“Joly needs a medicine,” Jehan shouted, springing to their feet. 

“Joly’s needed Morphling ten times this week,” Bahorel replied as the door opened. “You’re going to get a tolerance.” 

Joly did not feel tolerant. He felt like he was dying. His heart was somehow stopping and beating too quickly, and there was too much air but none for him. This was not a feeling of tolerance, not even a little. Tolerance was letting Jehan eat off his plate, even though that food was supposed to be his. 

“He’s sick,” Jehan clamoured out the door, darting between Bahorel’s legs. “You should be nice to sick people.” 

“I’m fucking nice to Joly,” Bahorel screamed. 

He was nice to Joly. Most of the time, he was very nice. Joly didn’t know what sort of sickness he had, because no one would tell him. No one would tell him anything, not in a way that made sense. 

“We really don’t need two active Morphling addicts in our ranks,” Valjean said, following after Bahorel. 

“I fucking told you I’d goddamn go!” Grantaire screamed from elsewhere in the apartment. 

Valjean and Bahorel hovered over Joly with Javert standing in the doorway, peacekeeper helmet in his hands. Bahorel held a bottle of pills as Joly gasped and clawed at his bedspread. That girl from the Metro, she died, and Joly watched. He couldn’t help, because he didn’t know what to do, but he’d watched.

“I don’t think it’s wise to bring Joly to the Game Maker mid unmedicated panic attack,” Javert said. “Unrestrained Morphling use causes addiction, like in Grantaire-” 

“Shut the fuck up! I said I’d go to fucking rehab! For fuck’s sake. I’m taking less than normal, enough not to fucking throw up, just like Valjean said!” 

“I don’t even think Joly can get that mad,” Bahorel laughed, shaking a pill into the palm of his hand. Joly opened his mouth and swallowed like he was supposed to, but he still felt dreadful. The medicine never worked immediately. 

“If we only give Joly Morphling during the training and Games, then Victory tours, he will be fine,” Javert explained, creeping into the room to sit down next to Joly. His peacekeeper uniform clanked against itself as Javert’s knees bent. “I do not wish the ire of the Capital on Joly, and I do not wish it upon us.” 

“Us?” Bahorel laughed as Joly buried his face in his pillow to scream. That was something Jehan taught him, and it almost made him feel better. Jehan would screech until they passed out, going from rage to slumber in the blink of an eye, usually after Bahorel gave them some medicine. “You’re one of us now?” 

“Stop,” Valjean huffed as Javert’s gloved hands stroked Joly’s short hair. “No infighting.” 

“I don’t consider a peacekeeper to be part of our crowd,” Bahorel sneered as Javert started to rub Joly’s back.

Joly stopped screaming, eventually. He did not go to sleep, but he could breathe again. 

"Be nice to Javert," Jehan took a seat next to Javert, then weaved their fingers through Joly's hair. "Are you okay, Joly?" 

"Uh-huh," Joly nodded. He felt fine. Something had upset him, but he was fine now. He felt so much better, especially with Jehan playing with his hair and Javert rubbing his back. 

"We need to go," Javert said, withdrawing his hand, "it's urgent business." 

Joly went into his wheelchair, and Jehan climbed into his lap, still in their pajamas. Jehan placed a dry kiss on Joly's cheek, then giggled. 

"Feuilly doesn't have to go?" Grantaire asked, toothbrush dangling from his mouth. "Lucky bastard."

"Feuilly is watching the Games," Bahorel explained as he laughed. "There's still Capital assholes drinking and eating with him, even though it's three in the morning."

"Is Jolts even up?" Grantaire asked, rolling his eyes as he spit into the sink. Javert pushed Joly and Jehan into the elevator, followed closely by Valjean.

Bahorel sighed, "yep, started patrolling for tributes at ten pm."

"The Game Maker is waiting," Javert repeated, holding the button to keep the elevator doors open. "As is the car." 

Bahorel and Grantaire joined them, and all Joly could smell was Grantaire's toothpaste. Joly didn't brush his teeth after he woke up so his teeth would rot out of his head. His breathing didn't become erratic, not with his head as foggy as it was. 

The elevator moved downward, and Jehan wrapped their arms around Joly's neck. "I don't want to see him." 

"I know," Grantaire nodded. "None of us do." 

"Mr. Enjolras is an agreeable man," Javert said, helmet still in his hands. It was clearly a lie, judging by the set of his jaw. 

"He's my dad," Jehan said, "he doesn't love me."

"He's your father?" Valjean hissed, turning to face Joly and Jehan as the elevator opened. "You're his child?"

"His bastard, yeah," Jehan shrugged. Bastard was not a nice word. 

"Don't say that," Grantaire snapped. 

"A bastard is a kid born out of wedlock," Jehan explained, face somber as they squeezed Joly. "I'm playing in the Games next year, so he won't have to ever see me again." 

"That's not why," Bahorel hesitated as they all piled into the car. He pointed toward the driver, then put a finger to his lips. 

"I love you, Jehan," Joly whispered as Javert folded Joly's chair and stowed it in the trunk. "I love you." Jehan liked to hear that Joly loved them. They said that once, and with their face so sad, Joly just wanted to do something they liked. 

"Love you, too," Jehan squeaked, and Joly could feel hot tears smear against his shirt as the car started to drive.

No one else in the car said anything for the entire trip. It didn't feel right to talk about the billboards illuminated by huge spotlights, or the pigeons, or anything else, not with Jehan pretending they weren't crying. 

They drove until they left behind the billboards and lights. The sun started to rise and no one made a sound. Joly just looked out his window and cradled Jehan. He didn't want to embarrass them, not by drawing attention to the situation. 

Valjean's watch buzzed and Grantaire turned to Bahorel, palm open. Wordlessly, Bahorel placed two pills from the bottle into Grantaire's hand. Grantaire swallowed, and Bahorel grimaced. 

"Where are we going?" Bahorel asked, once the lights of the Capital were out of sight of the rear window. 

"To see Mr. Enjolras," Javert said, helmet on his head. Joly hadn't noticed that it was on, but the driver was also a peacekeeper. "Feuilly will join us once the Games are finished." 

"But why? Where?" Bahorel argued as Jehan gripped Joly's shirt. 

Jehan was good at crying silently, and Joly didn't like to think of how they got practice. Since it was alright to talk, Joly whispered, "it's alright, Jehan. I've got you." 

"Love you, Joly," Jehan whispered, voice thick with tears, as Bahorel waited for his response. 

"Where the fuck are we going?" Bahorel asked again. 

"Bahorel," Valjean warned.

"They're taking us away in the dead of the night, demanding we leave Feuilly, and now we're in the fucking mountains. All to see Mr. Enjolras," Bahorel shouted. 

Grantaire elbowed Bahorel's side, then rested his shoulder against Bahorel's chest. "Just calm down, dude. Jehan is handling this better than you." 

"My fucking boyfriend is alone in the Capital and I'm in a car headed away from the goddamn city. The Games are a motherfucking holiday and I can't even go buy shit because everythings closed but we can go to wherever the hell this driver is taking us," Bahorel hit his fist against the door and the entire car shook. 

"Stop," Javert's helmet turned toward them and Joly squeezed his eyes shut so he wouldn't see the girl trampled beneath the crowd's feet.

Bahorel stopped, and Joly went back to playing with Jehan's hair. They never had a chance to braid it, so Joly divided it into plaits with his fingers, then deftly made a loose braid that fell down Jehan's back. He didn't have a hair tie, so he combed the braid out with his hands, then repeated the process. 

On the fifth attempt, the car was stopped at a large concrete gate at the foot of a tunnel that burrowed through a mountain. The tiny clock, lit up in red at the front of the car read 12:00. Joly was not proficient in clocks, not in the slightest, but he could tell they'd been in the car for a long time. 

A peacekeeper tapped on the window with a gloved knuckle, "state your business." 

"Transporting the Victors on the behest of President Gillenormand," Javert explained. 

Grantaire sucked in a breath, then grabbed Joly's hand from Jehan's hair. The peacekeeper looked onto a sleek tablet, flicking his fingers as everyone in the car, even Jehan, was silent. The officer outside pulled open the doors and the driver and Javert left the car. 

The five of them, Joly, Jehan, Grantaire, Bahorel and Valjean, stayed pressed together in the backseat, their legs touching. Outside Javert talked with the other officers, but Joly couldn't make out anything they were saying. Grantaire clung onto Joly, hard enough to make Joly's hand ache.

"I need to potty," Jehan whispered into Joly's chest. 

"Shhh," Grantaire warned, still looking out the window toward the peacekeepers. "Whatever is happening is bad and you need to be silent." 

"Javert has our best interests at heart," Valjean's voice was unsteady and soft. That was the same voice Valjean used to comfort Joly when he woke up sweaty and screaming from a bad dream. "Just trust Javert." 

"Trust the peacekeeper," Bahorel muttered under his breath as Jehan squirmed on Joly's lap. "Just trust a fucking peacekeeper." 

"Yes," Valjean lost that softness, "trust Javert. He's my partner." 

"He's a peacekeeper," Bahorel repeated. 

"Javert is nice," Joly rubbed Jehan's back as they whined. "He watched Feuilly." 

"He went to 11," Valjean whispered again. "He saw 11. He's going to protect us." 

The backdoor opened, and Javert, or maybe a different peacekeeper, pulled Jehan out of Joly's lap. Grantaire let out a strangled sound he squashed by biting his fist and Jehan whimpered, pupils blown. Jehan's feet, clad only in their socks, dangled in the air as they went limp as one of their ragdolls. 

"That is Jehan Prouvaire," a peacekeeper nodded. "Rene Grantaire's charge, heir to the Prouvaire estate. Loyal to the Capital." 

The peacekeeper continued to hold Jehan, under their armpits, and Jehan did not struggle. A different figure with a flashlight grabbed Joly and tried to stand him on his feet. The third figure rushed forward to save Joly from face planting into the road. 

"That's Galen Joly," a peacekeeper shouted, propping Joly against their body, "lost his leg in the last Game, and you almost damaged a Capital asset."

"My apologies," the second peacekeeper said as they dipped back into the vehicle. Grantaire stepped out on his own accord, but did not say a word. Neither did Bahorel or Valjean.

That same peacekeeper searched the car, pulling out the seats and taking Joly's wheelchair completely apart. 

Jehan whimpered as they were held aloft, "I need to potty. I need to go." 

"Silence," the peacekeeper holding Jehan ordered, causing Jehan to resume crying.

"We have been driving for eight hours," the peacekeeper helping Joly stand explained. "Prouvaire is eleven." 

"Prouvaire was not in the summons," the peacekeeper said as he kept slamming Joly's wheelchair against the ground, as if something was hidden inside it. 

"Let me take Prouvaire to relieve themself," the peacekeeper that was holding Joly, who must have been Javert, said. Joly was placed on the ground, flat on his behind, and Javert grabbed Jehan.

Jehan screamed as Javert snatched them from the air. They didn't fight, but they cried out for Grantaire. "Please don't let them take me, 'Taire. Please! I want to stay with you!" 

Grantaire bit his lip and Joly, absolutely overwhelmed, covered his face with his hands. Jehan wailed, and there was nothing anyone could do. 

"The car is cleared," the peacekeeper said as he threw Joly's chair back into the trunk. "You may proceed." 

Bahorel climbed back inside, then Valjean. Joly waited on the ground and Grantaire stared at the rocks where the Javert took Jehan. The color slowly came back to Grantaire's face when Jehan returned with their face pressed against Javert's breastplate. 

"Hold them," Javert commanded as he passed Jehan, all shaking shoulders and trembling limbs, into Grantaire's arms. 

This was somehow too scary to be frightening. Joly couldn't even imagine being any more afraid. As Grantaire slid into his seat, Jehan still heaving against his chest, Javert helped Joly to his feet. 

"You are doing great," Javert's digitized voice said softly. "Did they hurt you?" 

Joly shook his head as Javert carefully placed him next to Grantaire. He wasn't hurt, not that he could tell. His stomach ached, but that had to be anxiety related. Jehan always said that Joly was just anxious. 

Once Javert was in his seat and the doors were closed, they resumed driving. Jehan no longer cried silently, but no one, not even Javert, commented on it. 

The tunnel was dark. Joly didn't know what he expected from a tunnel, seeing as he spent most of his last train ride clinging to Javert terrified, but it was eerie. Jehan's sobs did not lighten the mood either. 

When their surroundings were suddenly light, peacekeepers were everywhere. They shuffled back and forth carrying duffle bags and long guns. Nearby, out either window, rows and rows of white figures with helmets that reflected the midday sun climbed onto idling planes.

"What happened?" Bahorel asked, his face pressed against the glass. "Are we at war?" 

"That information is classified," the driver informed them as Bahorel carded his fingers through his hair. 

"13 invaded 12," Javert announced. "You'll be briefed by the president." 

Invaded? War? Joly forced his gaze away from the windows to Jehan. Their shoulders still heaved and their body shook with tremors as they cried. Cautiously, Joly reached out a hand and rubbed Jehan's back. He could focus on helping Jehan, not on all this chaos. 

Eight peacekeepers waited for them when the car finally stopped in front of a nondescript concrete building. They opened the doors and Bahorel rushed out first, then elbowed a peacekeeper away from Joly. 

"He can't walk alone, and I'm not having him dumped on the ground again," Bahorel growled as he threw an arm around Joly's waist. Valjean joined Bahorel, once Joly was standing, to give additional support. 

Jehan clung to Grantaire and they made their way inside as a unit, flanked by peacekeepers. They went down four flights of stairs, and on the second staircase, Valjean just lifted Joly into his arms, and claimed it was for simplicity's sake. Joly was not a fan of being picked up when he was walking just fine, but he was not about to complain in a desolate staircase with flickering fluorescent lights and stark white walls. 

Joly would just explain to Valjean later. There was no need to start a fuss in front of all these armed officers. 

"President Gillenormand," a peacekeeper stopped in front of a sleek metal door and rapped his knuckles against it three times. "The Victors, Jean Valjean, Rene Grantaire, Jean Bahorel, and Galen Joly are here, as you requested. With them is Jean Prouvaire, who was not in the clearance, but Javert insisted the child was Rene Grantaire's charge." 

"They brought Prouvaire?" an exasperated voice called from behind the door, muffled. "Of course they did." 

"Send them in," a different voice, more authoritative, ordered. 

Behind the door was a large oval table made of rich cherry wood and tv screens on every wall. Three chairs were filled, one man he recognized as Mr. Thenardier, mostly from the oversize hat, and the other two he remembered meeting once or twice. 

Joly drifted to the walls once Valjean placed him in a chair. On one screen Jolts, the stranger who wanted to talk about bugs, was bloodied and waving a sword at small black and grey creatures that kept lunging with their teeth bared. The animals' mouths were smeared with red, and four of them lay on the ground, motionless. 

Another screen had another stranger barricaded into a bathroom, back firmly to the door as they locked their knees against a bathtub to give extra leverage. That stranger, a girl who cried when Valjean talked to her in that odd gym, was once again crying. 

"I told them of the invasion, President Gillenormand, sir," Javert said, standing to the side of the room. He saluted quickly, then stood straight and still, once more. 

"Very well," the oldest man, whom Joly presumed was Gillenormand, nodded. He kept partial attention to the two screens with the strangers, just as Joly did. 

"You will be staying here, temporarily," the other man stared at Jehan. "I will give Prouvaire the clearance, I suppose. A military base in wartime is no place for a child." 

"Prouvaire is excellent at staying secluded, sir," Javert said. "Prouvaire also provides a boost in morale to the others." 

"A boost in morale," Gillenormand hummed. "I suppose that could be useful during filming." 

"Filming?" Bahorel asked. He did not call the president sir. 

"We need your assistance in the war effort," Gillenormand explained, hands tented over his nose with his elbows on the table. "It seems the Rebels have a deeper reach in the Districts than we had previously assumed." 

"Anything you need, sir," Grantaire said before Joly could even process what was being mentioned, "we'll assist in any way we can." 

"I don't do shit for free," Bahorel snapped, turning to Grantaire. His eyes did not meet Grantaire's, but instead they fell to the back of Jehan's head. 

"You will be compensated-" Mr. Thenardier started, but Bahorel immediately cut him off. 

"I've got more money than I need."

"What else could you possibly want?" 

"Lots of things, but I'll help your effort, if you spare Jehan," Bahorel explained. 

"If we spare Jehan?" Gillenormand asked, an eyebrow raised. “From what?” 

“I think Mr. Enjolras would be adept at giving you an explanation.”
"Grantaire knew the deal he was taking when we agreed to allow Jehan temporary residency in the Capital,” Mr. Enjolras, the Game Maker who was not fun at all, growled. 

"Kid only needed it because the Rebels kept trying to assassinate them. Having a Prouvaire executed on National TV during the next games will only embolden the Rebels. 8 has wanted the Prouvaires' dead for years, according to Grantaire, and there's no reason they would stop at one," Bahorel laughed a little, then smiled, showing his teeth, “though I can’t say I’ve never had sex so bad that I wished the chick dead after.” 

Jehan turned their head away from Grantaire's chest, eyes a brilliant red, and stared at Bahorel. Everyone in the room stared at Bahorel, who simply crossed his arms and set his jaw. His response sounded rehearsed, like he went over the pertinent bits in a mirror or with Feuilly.

Joly got caught up on the idea of killing a Prouvaire. He couldn't fathom anyone wanting Jehan dead; they were sweet.

"You're not in a position to make demands," Mr. Enjolras stated as he folded his hands flat on the table. "There's nothing you could offer-" 

"I'll restart the Academy in 2," Bahorel said, picking dirt from his nails like he was bored. "You send me the Careers from 1 and 2, and the mob will stop bum rushing the peacekeepers every Reaping, or would you like the Rebels to get a foothold in 2? It seems like it'd be a nightmare to try to weed out the Rebels from a wartime peacekeeper force, but what do I know?" 

The president grimaced. "You will each be shooting promotional commercials, less than thirty seconds in length, pledging your loyalty to the Capital and encouraging your fellow citizens to search for the traitors among them."

On the television Jolts leaned on a sword, clearly unsteady on their feet. The other stranger, the girl in the bathroom, had blood pooling around her butt as something with claws ripped through the door. 

"You'll restart the Academy," Mr. Enjolras sighed, looking Bahorel up and down. "And I'm supposed to trust you have no ulterior motives?" 

"My motive is for Jehan to win the Game you're making him play in. I helped stage last year's Game," Bahorel snarled, then gestured at Joly with a flourish. "This entire year, all of us, even Valjean, have spent it trying to explain basic concepts to Joly, who's never seen a Game and didn't even understand plumbing. And you chopped off his leg to cover your tracks on that shark bite, and nothing any of us can say can get Joly to understand." 

Bahorel pointed toward the screen showing Jolts then gave the Game Maker a pointed look. Grantaire and Valjean seemed horrified, and Joly tried to remember all the times Bahorel had started to explain something then stalked away, frustrated in a way Joly couldn't place. 

"You're not in a place to make demands," the Game Maker barely opened his mouth to speak. "This, to the untrained eye, looks like insolence."

"It is insolence," Mr. Thenardier hissed.

"We served you a hot chick and a Victor marriage on a silver platter," Bahorel laughed. "Every red blooded male in Panem got new wank material, every lady gets to see wall to wall coverage of white dresses and engagement rings, and you can air clips of her disavowing the Rebellion. We've given you nothing but gifts, and it's not my fault you don't know how to use them." 

The three men at the table frowned, and Grantaire pleaded for Bahorel to "shut the fuck up," as softly as he could. 

The door broke for the girl who was locked in the bathroom, and those grey and black creatures ripped her limb from limb. It was gruesome, and the animals didn't stop eating until her body was picked clean. Joly was thankful that the television had no sound.

"That girl you went to all the trouble for has won," the Game Maker pointed at the other screen, with Jolts collapsed in a heap as the monsters retreated.

"If you kill Jehan," Bahorel looked to Grantaire, "he'll Morphling himself to death within a year, then Feuilly will find a way to join him. So that'll give you what, 5 living Victors? One of them in bereavement for her dead husband, Valjean, who ever wins game 49, fucking Joly, and me. And I goddamn know you don't want me front and center. That's my ulterior motive." 

"They're going to kill you," Grantaire warned, and Valjean hummed an agreement. 

"Why would they?" Bahorel asked, staring directly at Mr. Thenardier. "Besides a little bloodlust, I've been a model Victor. I do what I'm asked, when I'm asked. I'm a blunt motherfucker, and it's not just my brand. It's how I fucking am." 

“I’d hate to waste such a tactical mind,” the president hummed, smiling ever so slightly at Bahorel. “You would have made an excellent peacekeeper. We could have used your wit on the battlefield.” 

Bahorel laughed, and Joly, having known Bahorel for a year, could tell that the laugh was something for show. He laughed like that when they were all in public and some lady asked him to sign her bosom with a felt tipped marker. “I’m plenty useful here.” 

“That you are,” the president nodded before he shot a glare to Mr. Enjolras and Mr. Thenardier. “So for Prouvaire’s guaranteed safety, you reopen the Academy? For how long?” 

“Until I fucking die, I guess,” Bahorel shrugged. “And I bet Grantaire will help me, too. Grantaire’s good at all that book shit, you know, how not to freeze to death, how to find water, the boring shit.” 

“Seems like a good deal on our end,” the president said, turning to Mr. Enjolras and then Mr. Thenardier again. “Any concerns?” 

“Prouvaire knows too much,” the Game Maker hissed as Grantaire seemed to hold Jehan a little tighter. “He knows about Jean Enjolras and he knows about the failed 47th Game. There’s no guarantee this child doesn’t get on stage with Thenardier and start babbling Capital secrets to the entire nation.” 

The president nodded, then looked toward Thenardier who simply said, “I want Cleo’s kid in that Academy if it’s reopening. If we’re making the Victor’s into our own personal babysitting service for love children, it only serves that I get Eponine out of my home before Mrs. Thenardier skins me in my sleep.” 

Joly didn’t know who Cleo was, but Bahorel seemed to understand. “Cleopatra was one of my mentors, anything for her.” 

“She was exquisite, wasn’t she?” Thenardier smiled, showing all his teeth. They were perfectly white and straight, but they seemed too small for his mouth. His teeth were not teeth that Joly had seen on anyone else. “This was before all the surgery, of course. I won the betting pool that year, so I had first crack at her. I perhaps wasn’t as careful as I ought to have been in the heat of passion. My dear friend Enjolras can sympathize, I’m sure. At least Cleo wasn’t wed.” 

“I’m not talking about this with you,” Mr. Enjolras grit his teeth as Jehan snuck a petrified look at Joly. Their eyes were swollen and red, but they weren’t making a sound. Everyone Joly knew, except for Bahorel, they all seemed just as traumatized. “Not in front of them.” 

“We’ll consider your offer,” President Gillenormand nodded. “It’s time to get to your bunks, and we’ll start pulling you one by one for those commercials.” 

“Thank you, sir,” Bahorel bent himself in a bow as he stood from his chair. “Will Feuilly and Jolts be joining us?” 

The TV where Joly had seen Jolts previously was no longer on. The President nodded, then added, “it seems she sustained some injuries, so we’ll have her airlifted to the medical facility on base.” 

“Can we bring flowers?” Joly asked, before he could think better of it. He didn’t even know where they were. There didn’t seem to be any flowers in this place, just peacekeepers, airplanes, and concrete from what Joly could see as they drove in. “Nevermind.” 

“Why are you so afraid of us, Galen?” Mr. Enjolras asked, looking as unimpressed as Feuilly that time Joly and Jehan ate all his candy. Except this wasn’t candy, this was a guy who casually spoke of killing people. 

“Joly doesn’t know where he is,” Valjean kept his face completely neutral as he spoke. “No power in his home in 9, no water, and no real understanding of the Games. We’ve done our best to keep him away from the prying questions of the chattier Capital residents.” 

The president nodded, then gave Valjean a small smile, “you were always wonderful at damage control.” 

“Yes, sir.” 

“You're dismissed,” the president waved his hand and everyone rose to their feet, then bowed a bit, even Jehan. When Valjean helped Joly up, he tried to bow, too, but his balance shifted enough to where, if it wasn’t for a steadying hand on his elbow, Joly would have hit the oval table face first. 

The peacekeepers waited for them outside the door, and they all walked silently down another two flights of stairs, toward a dimly lit room with eight beds. The beds were stacked in groups of two, with a few feet of distance between them. It was a very small room with a single light bulb that dangled from the ceiling. 

“Thank you, you’re dismissed,” Javert, in uniform, said, saluting the crowd.

The other peacekeepers dispersed, and carefully Javert closed a thick metal door. Valjean placed Joly on one of the beds closest to the ground, then after an uncomfortable silence, turned to Bahorel. 

“What the hell?” 

Bahorel shrugged, then looked toward Grantaire, who stood completely frozen with Jehan still in his arms. He gave another shrug, then a gesture to Jehan. 

“You could have gotten us all killed!” Valjean yelled as Grantaire joined Joly, sitting close enough that their legs and sides touched. When they were this close, Joly could hear Jehan’s ragged breathing. 

“They never would kill you,” Bahorel just shrugged again. “Enjolras asked me to restart the Academy, and I said no. I figured I’d get something I wanted for it.” 

“Something you wanted? If the Game Maker wants someone dead, then they’re dead! No amount of bargaining is going to spare Jehan!” Valjean kept shouting and his voice bounced off the walls. 

“Enough,” Javert said, helmet in his lap. “Infighting is unproductive and what’s done is done.” 

“What’s done is done,” Vajean sighed as he rubbed his temples. “Look, it’s just an awful idea. You’re putting us all at risk.” 

“I can’t believe Mr. Enjolras is condemning his child,” Javert whispered, turning to Valjean. “Did you know?” 

Valejan nodded. 

“I didn’t,” Joly squeaked, “Jehan is so nice! Why would anyone want to kill Jehan?” 

“I can’t explain it to you here,” Grantaire exhaled, then pulled down the skin on his face. He placed Jehan, who seemed to have suddenly fallen asleep, flat on the bed behind Joly, next to the wall. “It’s complicated.” 

“I’m sure they’ll bring us meals,” Javert surveyed the room. “And I’ll escort you to your shoots-” 

“Joly cannot read, and neither can Feuilly,” Grantaire tilted his head back to look at the bed above him, and Joly copied him. There wasn’t anything interesting there, but Joly kept looking. “Can you feed them lines?” 

“I think rest would serve us all,” Javert nodded. “Everyone pick a bunk.”

Bahorel picked the bed closest to Joly, Grantaire and Jehan, and Valjean went to the opposite side of the room, leaving two empty bottom bunks between the two of them. 

“What just happened? Can Jehan sleep by me?” Joly whispered to Grantaire, who stayed sitting on what Joly assumed was his bed. “Can you both sleep by me?” 

Grantaire held out a hand to Bahorel. Bahorel rolled his eyes, but dug out two pills and placed them into Grantaire’s palm. Grantaire swallowed, then wiggled down next to Jehan. There was a tiny sliver of mattress for Joly, but that was fine. 

When Joly reclined, Grantaire shimmied over, making a bit more space for his body. Grantaire whispered, “Jesus fucking Christ,” and wrapped an arm around Joly’s waist, holding him in place. “Whatever they ask you to say, Joly, just say it. Don’t ask questions, just do it.” 

“Okay,” Joly turned to face Grantaire, burying his face in Grantaire’s shirt, like Jehan had done in the car. 

“Don’t be like Bahorel,” Grantaire added. “Don’t be like Bahorel. They’ll kill you for that.” 

“I might have just saved Jehan’s life,” Bahorel hissed from the other bed. “You’re welcome.” 

“I mean, thanks, but I’d rather you not die in their place.” 

“No one is going to die,” Javert called from the other side of the room. “Go to sleep.” From what Joly saw before he finally got some rest, it didn’t look like Grantaire listened.

Combeferre woke up in a stark white room with blurry figures hovering around him. He was supine, staring at a long fluorescent light bulb reminiscent of when he was in school. He tried to move, but pain shot through his legs. 

A monitor beeped in the background, and Combeferre realized he was in the hospital. 

“Congrats on your victory,” Feuilly called from the side of the bed. He was holding Combeferre’s hand, for some reason, and softly running his thumb over his knuckles. 

“I don’t like that,” Combeferre said, trying to blink Feuilly into focus. He used his free hand, and really they both should have been free because he didn’t want Feuilly touching him, especially not like that, to grab blindly for his glasses. 

“Are you thirsty?” Feuilly asked.

He didn’t move his damn hand. 

“I don’t like that,” Combeferre repeated, trying to pull his entire arm away. “Let go!” 

“Huh?” Feuilly’s head turned, and Combeferre groaned in annoyance. “What did I do wrong?” 

“Let go!” Combeferre snarled. This was not acceptable, not in the slightest. He balled his free hand into a fist and swung directly at Feuilly. He felt it connect, then reared back to strike again. “I said, let go!” 

“I don’t know Feu, I think Jolt’s wants you to let go of his fucking hand,” Bahorel snickered as Feuilly finally let Combeferre go. “Way to almost be murdered by raccoons, by the way.” 

“Raccoons are vermin and I hate them,” Combeferre sneered. When had he gotten so angry? He was never this angry. Bahorel and Grantaire laughed, and then belatedly, Jehan and someone else joined in. 

“Raccoons are vermin and you hate them,” Grantaire chuckled. “Can I get some of that Morphling drip?” 

“Don’t even joke,” Valjean warned. “Combeferre, it’s nice to see you.” 

“I can’t see you,” Combeferre sighed, blinking again. “Where are my glasses?” He thought for a second then groaned, “fucking raccoons.” 

“Raccoons took your glasses, yep,” Bahorel said as Feuilly moved from Combeferre’s left side. “If you’re hurting, we can get the doctors to give you more of that good shit. You’ve got a drip and they already gave you a daisies vacation, in your stomach, so the raccoons can’t give you flowers or some shit. I don’t know, I’m not a doctor.” 

“What?” Combeferre asked, wondering why on earth Bahorel thought raccoons and daisies had anything in common. “Rabies?”

“Yeah, Bahorel is a fucking idiot,” Feuilly’s laugh bounced off the walls. “Rabies vaccination, because apparently the raccoons were rabid, or maybe were rabid. As it was explained to me, there was food in the arena to possibly make them rabid and they didn’t keep track of if they ate the food or not.” 

“Combeferre doesn’t need to worry about any of that shit,” Grantaire cut in. “Important parts, your leg is jacked and they’re fixing it. You’ll spend a couple days in the hospital, then some time in a boot, but they don’t think you’ll lose functionality long term.” 

Combeferre couldn’t see his legs, or really anything, but he remembered the raccoons digging into his muscles. He remembered feeling like he couldn’t fight anymore, and then staying on his feet. 

He also remembered that one of the Victors, Galen Joly, promised they could talk about bugs. Jean Valjean said he had to wait until after he won his game. Everything was chaos and Combeferre just wanted to talk about something he liked. 

No one ever let him talk about the things he liked. He spent over a year with Otto and Bell and had to eat food he didn't like, sleep on the floor, and train constantly, and no one ever asked him about what he wanted. Just like in the arena, no one cared what he wanted. 

Thinking about the similarities of the Rebels and the Capital was making his stomach hurt. 

It was time for him to talk about something he liked.

“Is Joly here?” Combeferre asked, feeling something hot bubble in his chest.

“Yeah, we’re all here,” Joly chirped like a cricket. He drowned a kid, and he still sounded so happy. Combeferre watched the video of him doing it, and he didn’t even look phased. It didn’t even register on Joly’s face that he'd killed someone. 

How many other children did Combeferre kill? He couldn't remember. It didn't seem important at the time.

Their lives didn't seem important. The Rebels said so and the Capital agreed. Combeferre did what both of them wanted. 

“How?” Combeferre asked, unable to articulate anything further. 

"We took a car," Joly just sounded so fucking happy. "We'll go back to the Capital later."

"Shush, Joly," Feuilly whispered. "Sorry, he doesn't know what's happening." 

"I don't," Joly laughed and started to breathe heavily.

"Joly never played," Bahorel explained. "We faked his game, so he doesn't get what you're feeling. Valjean, Feuilly, and me, we get it." 

"I feel," Combeferre tried to place the emotion. He thought back to the flashcards the Bishop spent hours teaching him. They went over this feeling; they went over every feeling. It was mad, almost, but more intense. "I feel angry, very angry." 

"Yeah," Bahorel's voice was soft. "I still feel that. Pissed and guilty." 

Yeah, that was it. Combeferre nodded in agreement. 

"Lots of guilt," Grantaire hummed in agreement.

"I just feel fucking sad," Feuilly whispered. 

"It becomes more bearable," Valjean added.

"I want to do something I like," Combeferre blinked, then remembered he didn't have his glasses. Something was making him drowsy. "Why am I tired?" 

"You are bedbound and under the influence of pain medication," Valjean explained. "If you need to rest-" 

No, absolutely not. "I want to talk about bugs."

"Are butterflies bugs?" Jehan asked immediately.

"Yes," Combeferre nodded and sat as straight as he could, but the hospital bed didn’t allow for too much movement, not while his foot was wrapped. Bug questions were his favorite type of questions.

This was exactly what he wanted.

"Tell me about butterflies," Jehan said. "I like butterflies." 

Combeferre flapped his hands against his chest and laughed. His body ached and something ate into his inner elbow, but he wanted to show how excited he was. He couldn't contain himself. Jehan wanted to hear about butterflies, and Combeferre knew a lot about butterflies. 

"Did you know that Monarch butterflies migrate all the way from below 10 to the Wilds above 9? Those little butterflies go all that way." 

"What color are they?" Jehan asked.

"Monarch butterflies are orange and black, and share a lot of pattern similarities with viceroy butterflies." 

"I like orange," Jehan whispered as Combeferre kept waving his arms. "My hair is orange." 

Combeferre rocked back and forth in big sweeping movements, nodding. It hurt his foot just a little to wiggle in his bed, but he was just so happy. "Your hair looks like a monarch butterfly. I like it. When you braid it, it looks like the thickest part of orb weaver's web." 

"You want to be friends, right? All the Victors have to be my friend, it’s the rule."

“I would have been your friend without a rule,” Combeferre touched his fingertips together. “I already like you, not as much as I like monarch butterflies, because I’ve known about their migration patterns for longer.” 

"Do you want to hear about the time Joly and I saw a beehive? Joly and I can tell you about it while you lay down." 

"He doesn't want to hear-" 

"Bahorel, you don't know what I want! No one knows but me! I want to hear about the beehive!" Combeferre shouted, forcing his hands into fists. "I never get to do what I want! No one listens to me! I don't even like toast!" 

"Up the tranquilizer?" Grantaire asked as Combeferre beat his fists against his thighs.

There were some footsteps, and some of the faraway figures scurried about the room. Combeferre didn't even care. All of his plans had fallen into ruin, and he deserved one thing he wanted. Everyone took everything they wanted from him, and he didn't get anything in return. 

Something cold went into his arm, and he felt his fists unclenched. Why couldn't he just get what he wanted?

"Don't cry, okay? So there's this garden in the Capital, and it's fantastical," Jehan started, speaking slowly as a blur of orange took a seat next to Combeferre's head, on the left. "You'll love it, we'll all go when we're allowed to. It's so pretty, and in the winter I get to wear my neon yellow puffy coat covered in kittens and my turquoise mittens. They're so pretty. Grantaire knitted my mittens himself, he'll make you some, if you ask. You don't have to cry, I promise."

This wasn't about bees at all. What was Jehan talking about? They just kept rambling. Jehan went from carefully enunciating every word to talking as quickly as they could.

"There's so many colors and so much fun stuff. There's a tree made out of metal, and it's like a playground, and Bahorel helped me get to the top, then I hung by the backs of my knees. Feuilly climbed up and pulled me down, and he yelled at me and then I cried. Then Feuilly said sorry and we got ice cream cones. I had banana chocolate ice cream with purple sprinkles shaped like stars. Bahorel got vanilla because he's boring, and Feuilly got orange sherbert which is not really ice cream at all. He told me that ice cream makes his stomach hurt." 

"Bees?" Combeferre asked, feeling his body grow heavy. 

"Oh yeah, I'm telling you about the bees. There's a beehive in the garden! It's got a glass back, and Joly and I got to see all the bees making honey. Joly's house in 9 had a beehive. His Bulgur would harvest the honey, and Joly got to eat it. Joly says food in 9 is better than food here, but Feuilly says the food from 11 is gross. Grantaire's house in 8 had a tree, and I never saw any bees in it, but most people's houses in 8 don't have trees. My mom and my not dad had two trees, but I don't live with them because they moved away and left me behind." 

Jehan talked quickly. Too quickly, honestly. Combeferre felt like he couldn't process everything Jehan was saying, not with this odd cloud that was settling over him. It felt like contentment, but somehow artificial. 

Maybe Courfeyrac would talk about bugs when he got home. 

"Anyway, Bahorel says that's sad to talk about so I should keep it to myself-" 

"If a boy loves you," Combeferre slurred as his head lolled against the pillow, "that means he wants to talk about what you want to talk about?" 

"I'm not a boy, but I love you, Combeferre," Jehan squealed. "We can talk about whatever you want!" There was some laughter that Combeferre couldn't identify, but laughter was good. It meant people were happy. "What do you want to talk about?" 

"I wanna talk 'bout bugs." 

"Okay, Bahorel told me all ladybugs are girls, is that true? Bahorel is sorta stupid, so Feuilly and Grantaire told me not to believe everything he said." 

"Ladybugs, scientifically known as coccinellidae are beetles, and not really bugs, but I like them anyway. They eat aphids, which are bugs, and they're usually red and black, though they can be other colors, too. Ladybugs is a dumb name for them. If it's a male coccinellidae then it's whole name is a lie, 'cuz it's a gentleman beetle, and that's only if he's respectable in public, whatever that means." 

"Yeah," Jehan agreed. "What else do you know about bugs?" 

"Oh, just everything," Combeferre yawned. "Honey is bee throw up."

"Ick," Jehan giggled. 

Something plastic nudged against Combeferre's chin. "Your medicine might be making you feel sick. If you need to puke, I'll make sure you don't mess in your bed," Bahorel laughed a little. "Are you thirsty?" 

"Moths drink with a proboscis, which is essentially their tongue. It's long and hangs out of their mouth," Combeferre demonstrated for Bahorel, his eyes still closed. His tongue wagged against his chin for a few moments, then said, "like that sorta." 

"Combeferre needs to rest," Valjean said over the riotous laughter of the room. "He's unwell." 

"I feel really good," Combeferre yawned again, then checked with his hand to make sure his tongue was still in his mouth. "I feel so good." 

"Morphling will do that," Grantaire said. "We can talk more when you wake up." 

"About bugs?" Combeferre asked with a newfound giddiness. "Bugs are so cool." 

"You're cool," Jehan cheered. 

"No one has ever said that to me," Combeferre smiled. "Do I have that in common with bugs?" 

"Uh-huh," Jehan giggled. "Love you, Combeferre."

"Love you, too, Jehan," Combeferre nodded a little, bumping his chin against the lip of a hard plastic. "I'm so excited to talk about bugs all the time." 

"Me too!" Jehan agreed. 

"I love bugs," Combeferre whispered, feeling something cold against his lips. "I'm going to get a pet bug. Courfeyrac, the boy I love, he had a pet snail, but he just took it from outside. Otto and Bell were not happy, but they've never been happy, not with me." 

"Well, the gift shop at the botanical gardens has ant farms, and Grantaire wouldn't let me get one, but maybe-" 

"Ant farms?" Combeferre shouted. "Like a farm just for ants? How many acres is it? How do they cultivate crops? Grantaire, can I have one? I am not Jehan, I will be a good steward of those ants and lead them to prosperity." 

"Oh my God," Grantaire snorted. "Combeferre, you can get an ant farm, I promise." 

"Seems kinda unfair," Jehan said.

Combeferre clapped his hands together. What would they grow on his ant farm? What could ants even grow? Would they bring the fruits and vegetables to him by traveling in bunched up groups. "Ants can carry 20 times their body weight, they're very strong." 

"Jehan, you told the whole store that you wanted to put ants on Baz while he slept," Feuilly was laughing, even though that wasn't funny at all.

"That would hurt the ants," Combeferre replied with anguish. Everyone laughed more, and Combeferre did not understand the humor in harming bugs. "If I get an ant farm I will protect them from natural predators like birds and even Bahorel." 

"Well, he's a masochist so he would have liked it! I didn't think about the ants though, you're right. I will be more conscious of the ants." 

"Not even gonna ask," Grantaire sighed.

"Ask me about ants," Combeferre whispered as the exhaustion started to cause him to drift off. "I know a lot."

It turned out that Combeferre did not get to go home to 3. He did not even get to go back to the Capital. Once he was out of his hospital bed, he was put in a small room with all the other Victors, plus a peacekeeper and Jehan.

It was miserable and reminded him of the Bishop’s home. There were even bunk beds, and he still couldn’t have a top bunk. Valjean insisted that because Combeferre’s foot was in a boot, he had to stay on the bottom. It didn’t feel fair. 

Nothing felt fair. 

He just wanted to tell Courfeyrac he probably loved him. 

And to tell Otto and Bell not to send Courfeyrac to play. There had to be another plan, even if Combeferre didn’t know what it was yet. Once they were somewhere more private, Grantaire would tell him what he had been planning, and Combeferre would relay that information when he finally got to go home. 

When Combeferre asked, Feuilly said that last year they all spent two weeks in their Districts before the Joly’s Victory tour. Joly got to spend one week back at home before they shipped him out through Panem, according to Javert the peacekeeper, but Joly wouldn’t talk about home. 

Wasn’t Combeferre supposed to get a house when he won? He just wanted his house with an apple tree and Courfeyrac and all those noisy inventions that didn’t serve any practical purpose. Maybe he could get a bunk bed, and he could sleep on the top, and Courfeyrac could sleep on the bottom. No one at his home would be able to tell him he couldn’t have a top bunk. 

Or, even better, Combeferre and Courfeyrac could be like Grantaire and Jehan and share a bunk. 

They’d cry less, of course. Jehan and Grantaire woke up with nightmares every night. They’d both wake up in tears or screaming. Jehan would claw at the air and Grantaire would pull all the blankets around himself like he was a caterpillar preparing for metamorphosis. 

Feuilly didn’t cry loudly, he just gasped, then panted and flicked on a flashlight Bahorel got him, then shined it into Bahorel’s eyes. Bahorel slept above Combeferre, so usually it woke Combeferre up, but he usually could go back to sleep. Not always, but usually.

Joly seemed like everyday was some sort of nightmare, so Combeferre wasn’t sure how to count Joly’s. Was Joly forgetting how to breathe as they all sat on their beds wondering what would happen next a nightmare? It looked like one to Combeferre, but they didn’t know he was counting their sleep disturbances, because that might affect the data.

In the three months Combeferre had been trapped in this room with them, Bahorel had only had one nightmare that made him cry, while Valjean and Javert hadn’t had any.

Combeferre hadn’t yelled or cried, but he had plenty of nightmares. He had them as often as Jehan and Grantaire, but he just woke up and stared at the bunk above him in the dark. Screaming wouldn’t make the raccoons go away, nor would it stop Courfeyrac from being Reaped. Screaming and crying would not accomplish anything. 

Not that lying awake with a pit of dread in his stomach as he reminded himself he was on a military base in 2 was particularly productive. 

The days were at least bearable. Grantaire didn’t seem to believe in corporal punishment. Combeferre had asked him about discipline, assuming that Grantaire was who he’d be working under until he got back to Otto and Bell, and the whole room had stared at him, even the peacekeeper. When Combeferre made a mistake, Grantaire and the others just let it go. If he accidentally stepped on someone’s heel in the stairwell, they’d sometimes yell a little, but no one ever hit him. 

Bahorel and Feuilly hit each other a lot, but it was almost like a type of recreation. When Jehan joined them to wrestle on the small section of bare ground, neither of them ever punched Jehan. No one hit Jehan, and Jehan was frequently very poorly behaved. 

When Jehan screeched and tried to pull their own hair out, Joly just held them still and whispered that it was okay and that no one was mad. Joly would hug Jehan for hours while the rest of them played cards, and he never complained about missing something fun. It was a very strange place for Combeferre. 

“We’re leaving,” Javert, helmet in his hands, pulled Combeferre out of his thoughts. “Classified information,” that meant Combeferre couldn’t tell anyone like a reporter or a person in 3, “12 has been surrendered to the Rebels in exchange for a ceasefire and a trade deal.” 

They were always the Rebels and never 13. No one was allowed to mention 13. 

“Classified?” Grantaire asked, sitting up so fast on his bunk that he banged his head against the metal frame. He didn’t even flinch. “How is the Capital going to keep that a secret?”

Combeferre didn’t know if this was good or not. The Capital was clearly evil, but he wasn’t sure that the Rebels weren’t. If the Victors were part of the rebellion, which Combeferre had good authority to think they were judging by Grantaire’s reaction to Combeferre’s message, then maybe the Rebels were partially good. All of the Victors seemed like nice people. The other Rebels, Otto and Bell in particular, didn't seem decent in hindsight and neither did the Chief. The Chief had signed his death warrant and then told him thank you. 

“For a trade deal?” Bahorel leaned over the side of his bunk so Combeferre could see up his nose. It was gross, but also frequently Bahorel would burp as loudly as he could, just to prove to Feuilly that he could do it. 

“Coal for agriculture,” Javert shrugged as he eyed the closed door. “I had the impression that the Rebels wanted 9 and 11.” 

“Why are you telling us this?” Feuilly’s head hung right above Combeferre, too. 

Combefere hadn’t even noticed that Feuilly was up there. Surely, the weight rating on the bunks wasn’t meant to hold both Bahorel and Feuilly. Quickly, but carefully, Combeferre got out from beneath the two of them. He was always careful when he placed weight on his hurt foot. 

The raccoons had torn his Achilles tendon and every other day he had to walk to the medical where some doctor would help him move his foot in certain patterns for thirty minutes. It always hurt and he needed Javert’s help to get back up the stairs afterwards. Javert would sit there and watch, then say he did a good job, whatever that meant in the constructs of physical therapy, when he was finished. It was objectively nice to hear that he’d done something right, even if he didn’t know what it was.

“Seemed pertinent,” Javert shrugged. “Pack your things so we can go.” 

"Seemed pertinent," Bahorel snorted as Combeferre eyed his things. 

He was borrowing his clothes from the base, a tan uniform with buttons down the front. It didn't seem right to take the extra set they lent him. Combeferre could leave empty handed, it wasn't like anyone else had a plethora of things. 

"I appreciate your efforts to keep us informed, Javert," Valjean spoke loudly as he sorted through a duffle bag he kept next to his bed. "It's considerate of you." 

"You appreciate his dick in your mouth and his knee on your throat," Bahorel laughed.

Feuilly groaned, "please don't fucking do this."

"Are you mad?" Jehan asked as they ran their fingers through their long hair. "Why are we mad at Javert?" 

"We," Grantaire placed heavy emphasis on this word, then gestured around the room, "aren't mad at Javert. Bahorel's got a thing with Javert, I don't know. Don't be mad with him." 

Jehan nodded, grabbing a pile of papers. They had spent this time asking for things that base didn't have; a doll, a recorder, a tambourine, a hula hoop, a dress, a book about hyenas, and others that hadn't wedged themselves in Combeferre's brain. After a few weeks, Grantaire got them a ream of paper, a black pen, a red pen, and a blue pen. Jehan spent most of their free time drawing flowers, hearts and tombstones while everyone else played blackjack. 

Bahorel said Jehan wasn't old enough for blackjack, and the first time they cried, begging not to be left out. Jehan wailed until they fell asleep and Feuilly said that was normal, while Valjean said it was annoying. Joly fell asleep with them, rubbing their back and babbling about trucks.

It was strange, but Combeferre's main complaint was that Jehan was so loud. They did nothing softly, and everyone else just got used to it, while Combeferre couldn't. Finally, sensing something was off, Javert got Combeferre foam earplugs, which he'd taken to wearing constantly. 

They kept the world at a suitable volume.

"Bahorel, your obsession with domination is not my business nor do I wish for updates," Javert sighed, then placed his helmet squarely on his shoulders. His voice now digitized he said, "gather your possessions. The car is waiting."

Combeferre had his glasses on his face, his earplugs in his ears, and his boot on his foot, so he was ready to go. When Javert opened the door, gesturing for them to leave, Combeferre went up the stairs first, taking his time. His doctor said it was acceptable to take things slow, preferable even. 

He needed to rest on the first landing, and Jehan raced past, giggling, “you’re so slow, Jolts.” 

“Hush, Jehan,” Grantaire sighed, the Jehan’s papers tucked underneath his arm as he trudged upwards. “Hush.” 

Combeferre resumed climbing once he regained his stamina. He still made it to the car before Javert and Joly, though he supposed that wasn’t an achievement as much as an inevitably. It also, unfortunately, meant that he was trapped in a row of seats between Joly and Jehan. 

That seemed a bit cruel. More than a bit, but Combeferre kept it to himself. He asked Jehan if they’d like to switch, but Jehan started talking about the scenery and flowers and mountains at a volume that was uncomfortable, even with earplugs. 

He didn’t ask Joly, in case he'd also start talking about nature in Panem. 

And nature in Panem would have been a fine topic for a book. If Nature in Panem was a succinct book with proper punctuation, Combeferre would have read it. It seemed like an enjoyable concept in abstract, but Nature in Panem the Jehan lecture included such a wide array of dissociated topics.

For example there was a segment explaining how the tunnel was built through the mountain. It was entirely false. Jehan said that the mountain must have wanted a tunnel so people could visit it, because it was lonely. Mountains were not sentient beings; they did not consent to construction, they did not feel emotions. 

Once the car started to move out of the tunnel, Jehan counted trees. They gave no other defining information about the trees, they just counted trees aloud. 

It was miserable; Combeferre’s foot ached and the car made constant noise as they drove, like a wheezing, but not exactly a wheezing because Joly’s nose was wheezing. Feuilly kept yawning, and Grantaire kept popping his knuckles. There was no need for the car to be this loud, but even with his orange earplugs, Combeferre could hear everything. And he could smell everyone’s deodorant and shampoo and toothpaste. Cars were miserable places and he never wanted to go in another car again. 

Jehan announced tree number 107 when Combeferre could no longer take it. 

“Jehan, shut up! Just shut up!”

Combeferre’s hands on Jehan’s neck was entirely by accident. He did not intend to lunge to his left and choke Jehan, but that was what he was doing. It was automatic. There was a threat to his left, and he needed to react. 

“What the fuck!” Bahorel shouted as Combeferre pulled Jehan closer to get a better grip on their throat. “Stop!” 

Seat belts clicked as Feuilly leapt over a row of seats onto Combeferre’s lap, even though the car was moving. Bahorel yanked Combeferre's collar as Feuilly tried to pry his hands away, but he just wanted everything to be quiet. He just wanted a night where no one woke up screaming and an hour where no one said anything. Air filtration systems did not need to be so loud, either.

“Pull over!” Javert ordered the peacekeeper driving them as Valjean leaned forward to try to help Feuilly.

Combeferre’s fingernails dug into the soft skin at Jehan’s throat, and he squeezed tighter as Jehan gasped. Gasping was better than counting, but the best choice of all would be no noise. If Combeferre just put in a little more effort, he could get the car quiet, like he wanted. If he just pressed a little harder, he could have the silence he needed.

The car’s brakes screeched as Bahorel smacked Combeferre in the back of the head. “Let the fuck go!” Bahorel screamed as Feuilly threw an elbow to Combeferre’s face, and his fingers slipped away. It seemed purposeful that Feuilly placed his foot on Combeferre’s boot and Joly shrieked in his ear. 

As he scrambled to reestablish his hold, Bahorel wrapped his hands, which were much larger than Combeferre’s, around his throat and wrenched them together. “This fucking hurts, doesn’t it?” Bahorel sneered, his breath hot on Combeferre’s ear. 

It did hurt, but Combeferre couldn’t tell if it hurt worse than Feuilly’s body weight on his foot, or Joly and Jehan’s screams. There were too many things that hurt, and Combeferre wasn’t sure how he was supposed to focus on any one thing. 

With Combeferre weakened, Grantaire pulled Jehan over the seat into a tight hug, where he could no longer reach. 

Jehan’s crying and coughing was louder than the counting as everyone in the stopped car seemed to pant from exertion. Half moons of blood welled up on Jehan’s neck from Combeferre’s fingernails. They were almost the same shade of red as Bahorel’s face as he kept his concentration on Combeferre. 

“That was another assassination attempt, wasn’t it?” Jehan wailed from behind Combeferre. “He was trying to kill me!” 

Combeferre’s job was to kill people. That’s what everyone wanted him to do. Had he tried to kill Jehan? Was that his goal? He had acted on instinct, just to get the car’s volume to a reasonable level.

He breathed as evenly as he could with Bahorel strangling him. If he took measured breaths, he’d be fine, he was only just now starting to feel dizzy. He had time before he passed out. 

Javert marched around the car, then pulled open the door where Jehan had been sitting. “Let go, Bahorel,” he said, helmet firmly on his head, as he grabbed a long piece of black plastic. “I will handle this.” 

Feuilly scooted onto Joly as Bahorel released Combeferre. When Combeferre went to swing, in retaliation, Javert gathered both of Combeferre’s wrists, then wrapped that black plastic around them. He deftly yanked it closed as Combeferre struggled to get free. 

Plastic bit into his wrists as he tried to undo the tie. These were handcuffs, he realized. He was in the same contraption as all the rioters at last year's Reaping. Combeferre coughed, then tried to smooth out his neck, where Bahorel had grabbed him, but he couldn’t effectively comfort himself with his hands bound. 

He couldn’t pat his legs and he couldn’t rub his arms. Javert climbed further into the car to unlace Combeferre’s boot. “I’m going to restrain you,” Javert explained, “and then I am going to place you in the back of the car until we are in the Capital, where I will report this to the proper authorities.” 

Who were the proper authorities if not peacekeepers? Combeferre chewed his bottom lip as the roar of the car continued. Jehan and Joly were just crying without purpose. It wasn’t productive to make so much noise; it didn’t solve anything. 

“Do we need to move?” Grantaire asked as Jehan clung to his shirt.

“No, I am putting him behind the last row of seats,” Javert said as he tied the next set of handcuffs around Comberre’s bare ankles. The thin plastic pressed into a sore spot, but Combeferre didn’t complain. It wouldn’t fix it. He’d complained to get Jehan to be quiet, and now everything was so much louder. “Up.” 

Blood trickled down Combeferre’s face as he struggled to his feet. He listened to instructions, though. Peacekeeper instructions were important, even if his foot buckled when he tried to stand on the side of the road. It was hard to shift his weight while bound, but he did his best to stay upright. The instruction was up, not sit down, or lean against the car, and Combeferre needed to listen to peacekeeper instructions.

Methodically, Javert moved the baggage from the very back of the car to where Combeferre had been sitting. There wasn’t very much, just a few half full bags, and they fit rather nicely. The luggage did not spill over to where Joly and Feuilly were sitting at all and still left room for Jehan by the open door. 

Outside of the car was calmer, with the noise slightly removed as Javert slammed the car door and dragged Combeferre toward the very back. Wordlessly, he lifted Combeferre into the air by his elbow, then threw him into the space behind the seats. There were no seat belts or seats, so Combeferre folded his legs as best he could in restraints and sat with his back to the rest of the car. 

“I hate him,” Jehan wailed. “I don’t want to be his friend anymore.” That would have been fine if Jehan could have just hated Combeferre quietly.

“You don’t have to be,” Bahorel reassured Jehan as Combeferre tried to pat his legs again. He couldn’t, but he tried. He felt bad, and patting his legs would help, because it always helped. “I’m not gonna be his fucking friend now.” 

“He can hear you still,” Valjean whispered, and it wasn’t even quiet. Nothing was quiet and Combeferre couldn’t cover his ears with his hands because they were bound. 

“Good, he tried to kill Jehan for being annoying,” Bahorel sneered as Combeferre tried to rock himself better. “He should know we all think he’s a piece of shit.” 

Rocking wasn’t working. Nothing was working, not like it was supposed to. The Bishop had taught him all these things, and none of them were working. He asked Jehan to be quiet, and they weren’t being quiet. He used his words, like he was taught.

Clearly, the Bishop was wrong. 

Combeferre twisted himself so he faced the paneling of the car, instead of the back window. As he turned, something wet landed on his face, not blood, but something else. He didn’t react, because he couldn’t react. Any reaction he’d make would be too loud, and he didn’t want it to be loud, he wanted everything to be quiet. He couldn’t ask for quiet if he couldn’t even manage it himself. 

“Did you just spit on him?” Valjean asked as Jehan laughed. What was funny? How was any of this funny? 

“Yeah, but he strangled me first,” Jehan’s hair was too orange as they stared back at Combeferre. Everything was just too much. 

The closet he slept in with Courfeyrac was the perfect place, and it wasn’t fair he wasn’t allowed to go back. The floor was soft from their bedding, it was dark, and it was quiet. Also, usually when Combeferre was there, Courfeyrac was there. That made it a nice place to be while the car was hell. 

Combeferre kept it together through the crying and screaming and laughing. He kept it together when Jehan resumed counting from one. He even kept it together when the car hit a bump and rubbed him against the back of the leather seats. He was fine until someone started to play music. 

The music is what made him do it. 

“Quiet!” Combeferre shrieked, throwing his body forward until his forehead connected with the side of the car with a crack. “Quiet!” Jehan stopped counting as Combeferre slammed his head against the hard plastic that covered the back wheel. He screamed nonsense as he brought his head down over and over again. 

It didn’t hurt like the noise of the car did. The noise in the car hurt more than anything he could ever remember. 

“Should I pull over?” someone in the front seat asked as the music stopped.

“No,” Valjean sighed as he unbuckled his seat belt. 

Crack! Combeferre’s forehead connected with the plastic again. Crack! And the car was quiet, except for the road noise, and if Combeferre just hit his head a little bit harder, maybe that’d go away too. Crack! One more time. Crack! Maybe the next time would make everything bearable.

When he reared back to find out, someone grabbed his head, holding it still. He kept trying, because rocking was helping, too, maybe. Moving his whole body made the car a little better, even if somewhere in the back of his mind he registered a pain in his foot. 

He shouted as he raked his nails down his face, since he couldn’t hit his head. He again asked for everything to be quiet, and it was, finally. The person holding his head let go and climbed back to their seat, and Combeferre repeated over and over how he wanted it quiet. 

When he was done, the car was stopped outside of the apartment building and it was dark outside. He was alone, and it was as quiet as he could ever remember. The lights of the city weren’t too bright, not when he closed his eyes. 

He was still restrained, but at least it was quiet. His head felt fuzzy, but it was pleasant, like an extra layer of protection between him and the outside world. 

The doors opened, and Combeferre felt his hackles rise again. There was going to be more noise.

“It’s the right choice,” Valjean reassured someone as Combeferre tried to cover his ears. He couldn’t but he tried. “Your health is the right choice.” 

“Jehan-” Grantaire stammered.

“Jehan will be here when you get back,” Valjean’s voice was soft but very direct. “I already told you I would help watch him.” 

“I know, but today-” 

“Today was a nightmare,” Valjean sighed. “They'll be separated. You need to do this for you.” 

“I know,” Grantaire bemoaned as Combeferre whispered the word quiet to himself beneath his breath. “Will you bring Jehan to visit?” 

“Of course,” Valjean clasped a hand on Grantaire’s shoulder. “We will all visit, okay? You need this.” 

“I need this,” Grantaire repeated as Combeferre continued his chant. 

The back of the car opened and Combeferre just kept talking to himself. Javert, out of his peacekeeper regalia, hissed, “what did you do to yourself?” 

“Gave himself a concussion,” Valjean called out far too loudly. “Myriel said he used to do this as a kid, if he got worked up enough.” 

“A concussion,” Grantaire whistled as Javert pulled Combeferre out of the car. “Jesus H Christ.” 

“He’s covered in blood,” Javert groaned as Combeferre stumbled on his feet. It was like they were attached or something. “Jean, look.” 

Javert placed Combeferre on a leather seat, right by Valjean, and buckled his seat belt for him. Combeferre kept his eyes closed once he was done moving. “Good thing we’re already going to the hospital.”

“Yeah, I’m just super excited to detox,” Grantaire huffed. “Absolutely thrilled.” 

Once the car was moving, everyone was quiet again. Combeferre tried to pat his legs, but couldn’t, so instead he shook his hands up and down and bobbed his head. He hoped it wasn’t a long drive as he felt himself come back to his body. 

Everywhere hurt. His head, his ankles, his nose, his foot, his right shoulder and his wrists. He groaned as he sat still. Nothing had hurt as bad as the sound before, it was all almost unnoticeable. 

“Is it normal to be shitting your pants terrified?” Grantaire asked as Combeferre bit back a soft moan. 

“Yeah, both times I was petrified,” Valjean laughed a little, then clasped Grantaire on the back again. The noise his hand made caused Combeferre to jump, which caused him to cry out. “And you-” Combeferre was the you, he could sense that, “I don’t care what's happening, you are not allowed to assault anyone.” 

“Yes sir,” Combeferre’s words were slurred and delayed.

“We’re in the loading dock,” Javert announced after another long silence. The car stopped and Javert climbed out. “I’m going to explain the situation to someone on staff, and they will come retrieve you.” 

“I’ll sit with you until they process you,” Valjean reassured Combeferre as the car door slammed. 

“Thanks,” Grantaire sighed, “I appreciate it.” 

There was only one Valjean. He couldn’t sit with both of them, could he? Combeferre repeated “thanks” to himself as he tried to piece it together. If Grantaire was going to the hospital for his own thing and Valjean was going to stay with him, who would sit with Combeferre? No one? Was he going to have to find his own way back to the apartments after this? His breath caught in his throat. He didn’t know the Capital and he hadn’t paid attention on the drive over. He dug his nails back into his face and clawed. 

Combeferre’s door opened and Javert pulled Combeferre to his feet and marched him to a white gurney. Someone wearing all white and a peacekeeper flanked the bed as Combeferre tried to climb up. When Combeferre faltered, Javert yanked him up. 

“I’m going to have to talk to the Game Maker,” Javert groaned as he looked at the bright light above them. Combeferre didn’t like that light either. “Keep him restrained for your safety until I give you an update.” 

The peacekeeper saluted, then Javert nodded, walking toward the car as the gurney wheeled Combeferre away.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


"Somehow," Javert growled from the doorway as Combeferre laid in his hospital bed, "you're not going to face any repercussions from your actions. We are bending," Javert snarled, "the laws." 

Combeferre was not sure how laws could be bent, but Javert seemed very unhappy. He'd been here overnight; his hands were bound in new black ties, but his feet were free. Apparently, Combeferre was not supposed to take off his boot, not even in the hospital. 

"And I am taking you to your apartment," Javert wasn't dressed as a peacekeeper, he was just a man in a button down long sleeve shirt and pressed black pants. "Gather your things." 

Combeferre wasn't sure what things he had to gather. The khaki uniform he'd taken from the base was apparently tossed by one of the nurses on staff. He'd gotten it bloody and the nurse said it wasn't worth trying to save. 

"Let's go before the paparazzi gets photos of you leaving the hospital.”

Combeferre, unsteady on his feet, followed Javert. The itchy material of his scrubs swished against his thighs as he struggled to keep pace. Was Javert going to cut the cuffs on his hands? 

No. He was not. He was going to walk too quickly for Combeferre to comfortably follow without looking back to check if Combeferre was keeping pace. He forced himself to walk faster. 

The doctor explained that he had done something bad, that it was illegal to hurt people. It wasn’t illegal in the Games though. In the Games it made people like him. Javert was punishing him, he supposed. Punishment was necessary so Combeferre didn’t repeat the same mistakes; it was a learning tool.

 

A small black car was waiting outside. Combeferre climbed in the backseat and immediately started to tap his fingers together. He didn't want to ride anywhere in a car, but he had to. Javert climbed into the front, then ordered the peacekeeper to drive. 

This trip was silent except for the hum of the motor, the noise from the road, and the soft tapping of his hands. It wasn't unbearable, not like the drive back from the base. It wasn't exactly pleasant, but Combeferre managed.

Just like he managed the bright lights of the apartment lobby and the elevator, too. He was absolutely fine until the elevator doors opened to his apartment and there was a chattering sound. He wondered if he was imagining it, and looked to Javert for confirmation. There was no logical reason to be hearing raccoons in his apartment.

“Go on,” Javert huffed, as he took out a pocket knife and freed Combeferre’s hands. 

Combeferre stepped inside his apartment as he was expected to, ignoring the soft noises. Javert didn’t acknowledge them, so they must have been something akin to a nightmare. There was no reason to hear raccoons. 

Once the elevator was closed, he saw a raccoon eating the bread at his table. It wasn’t real, and clearly something was wrong with him. Raccoons lived outside. Not once could Combeferre think of a time a raccoon had gotten inside on their own volition.

He had a follow up for his foot in a week, and he’d tell the doctor then. Maybe this was something that warranted more discipline, but he could handle discipline. He could not handle a raccoon in his apartment, even if it was a cruel trick his brain was playing. 

The raccoon tore bread into little bits at his table, then stuffed it into its mouth. It ate just like the raccoons at the inn, holding small bites and chewing with its mouth open. It was a filthy disgusting animal and he hated it.

When Combeferre sat on his couch, it looked up at him. It wasn't real, but it was staring. It wasn’t real, and it couldn’t hurt him. His foot was real and it hurt far too much from keeping pace with Javert to continue walking to his room without a rest. He’d just sit and pretend that he wasn’t seeing a raccoon in his apartment. 

The raccoon trilled at the table as Combeferre decided that this was as good a time as any for a nap. He could nap on his couch; he was tired enough. He just needed to think about something pleasant to help take his mind off the imaginary raccoon. It was October and that meant in a few months he’d get to see Courfeyrac. 

He’d get a week this year, but next year he’d get two. He’d get two weeks every year with Courfeyrac, and that was something to look forward to. Combeferre clung to a cushion on the couch to pretend he was holding Courfeyrac. That’d be nice, wouldn’t it? They could share a bed, again, and he’d do most of the talking and Combeferre would just listen. 

Maybe he’d even bring up something he liked. He could talk about beetles or moths, and Courfeyrac could listen for a little while. He’d be brief, just a synopsis of a few species of bugs and Courfeyrac could go back to talking about inventions. Combeferre could even hold the tools he needed, just like before. 

Everything could be just like before, if only for a little while. 

And the rest of the time, well, he could spend it alone in his apartment. That’d be ideal. He could make himself his own regimented structure. A whole apple and plain bread for breakfast and a few hours of physical fitness in the morning, maybe pull ups and push ups. Then he could do an hour of leisure reading, then a peanut butter sandwich with another apple, and a few more hours of reading before dinner. After dinner he could go to sleep, and then repeat everything in the morning.

That would be comfortable, even if the other Victor’s didn’t want to be his friend. They all talked too much anyway. Without them around, he could sleep through the night without being interrupted by screaming. 

Yes, things were going to be as good as they’d ever been in his entire life.

Did he still have that book on bugs? He ought to give that back, because it was only loaned to him. Maybe Feuilly and Joly took it while he was away, which was fine. He’d have to find out who he talked to about purchasing books.

The Bishop had a very nice set of leather bound encyclopedias. If he could afford a whole set, then that’d be a good place to start book wise. Encyclopedias were full of information and he could jump from topic to topic at a whim. He wasn’t sure how much they’d cost because he’d never had money of his own, but hopefully he had enough for encyclopedias. 

The raccoon chattered in agreement. Even his delusional subconscious enjoyed that idea.

He closed his eyes and wondered what it’d be like when he saw Courfeyrac again. He dreamt of them kissing, of touching Courfeyrac’s butt like Feuilly did to him. He woke up panting and sweaty with his hand down the front of his scrubs underneath his underwear.

Combeferre ripped his hand away, and the heavy feeling on his chest moved. He blinked and immediately saw two beady black eyes staring back at him. Even though screaming was not helpful, he screamed. He readied his fists to attack and a raccoon reared up, then slashed its claws into his face. 

This was a real raccoon. He was being attacked by a real raccoon and he was aroused and terrified. God, he hoped that the arousal and the fear were not connected. His body shook and his face ached.

The raccoon attacked again, this time with its mouth, and Combeferre did his best to fight back, but he was unfocused. At one point he punched himself in the jaw.

Apparently Combeferre could not win a barehanded fight against a foot tall animal, so he decided to flee. Otto and Bell explained to him that sometimes it was important to run away and regroup. He could return with a weapon.

He sprinted to the elevator, not looking back to see if the raccoon was following him or not. When the doors opened and he went inside, caught a glimpse of the raccoon using its claws to rip into the couch. That could have been his skin; he could have died. He was supposed to be safe after winning his game, and he wasn’t. 

He pressed the button for 2, and waited. The raccoon did not race toward the elevator as it closed, it just continued to destroy the furniture. Who put a raccoon in his apartment? Why? Was this the punishment the Capital had warned of? 

Were the consequences of his mistakes raccoons? Was this just a warning for how they’d kill him if he made another error? Combeferre braced himself against the handrails as the elevator descended. The other Victors would know what to do, or they’d at least have some sort of weapon. 

Bahorel and Feuilly were strong. If they worked as a team, the three of them, they’d be sure to win. They could return with weapons.

“I need a sword!” Combeferre shouted as he stepped into Bahorel’s apartment, blood dripping down his face. 

The entryway was empty, but inside he heard a soft whimper, and then Bahorel grumbled, “I don’t want you here, Jolts.” 

His name wasn’t Jolts, it was Faraday Combeferre. Jolts was something the Bishop called him, and Bahorel was not the Bishop. 

“I need a weapon and backup,” Combeferre shouted again walking past the entryway into their living room.

On the couch Jehan cowered in Joly’s arms, sniffling beneath the blanket they’d lent Combeferre the night before his game. Feuilly combed his fingers through Jehan’s hair as he glared at Combeferre. Did the Victors not rely on each other? It seemed like they were a group that was deeply interconnected, at least from what he observed in his cohabitation. They offered aid when someone needed it. 

“You need to go,” Bahorel growled, towering in the doorway to the kitchen. He was tall and wide, and Combeferre hadn’t really noticed how menacing he was. Bahorel had seemed nice, and he’d helped him train, but Bahorel looked angry. “Go.” 

“I want him to go,” Jehan whined. Their fingernails were painted mauve and they dug into the dark fabric of Joly’s shirt. “Don’t let him hurt me.” 

“I won’t,” Feuilly kept staring at him as he said it. 

“Go,” Bahorel repeated. 

“But I need help,” Combeferre explained. “There’s a raccoon in my apartment.” 

“We know,” Bahorel growled. “You can handle it.” 

How did they know? Combeferre rubbed his face, then stared at his newly bloodied hands. He couldn’t handle it, that’s why he was here. “I can’t.” 

“Then go get someone to help you,” Bahorel shrugged. 

“I though I did?” 

Combeferre stared at his feet. On one foot, he had his boot, and on the other, he wore a blue hospital sock with plastic on the bottom so he didn’t slip. They were very afraid of him falling, but not so afraid that he could have his wrists unbound for balance.

Jehan turned and the left eye, the white of it, was red. Black, blue and green bruises in the shape of Combeferre’s hands covered their pale neck. 

Combeferre did that. He hurt Jehan.

“Find someone,” Bahorel walked closer. “Go on.” 

“I need help.” 

“You sure do,” Bahorel nodded. “Though if you come back to my apartment, those three raccoons will be the least of your worries.” 

There were three raccoons in his apartment? Combeferre’s hands shook. They outnumbered him, he couldn’t go back. How could he go back knowing that at any time a group of raccoons could attack him? Didn’t they care? Why didn’t they want to help? 

“You should go,” Joly whispered. 

“I need help,” Combeferre repeated, his voice cracking. “I got hurt.” 

“Who’s hurt worse?” Bahorel asked. “Jehan, buddy, stand up for me. Combeferre says he’s hurt, but he looks fine. What do you think?” 

Slowly Jehan pulled back their blanket, then untangled themselves from Joly. They looked at Combeferre as they walked around the other side of the couch, then tilted their chin toward the ceiling. Those were Combeferre’s handprints. 

“Bahorel gave me medicine, so I don’t hurt anymore,” Jehan said, their hands clenched into fists at their side. “I just feel scared.” 

Combeferre nodded, then it dawned on him. “You are scared of me.” Jehan didn’t nod, but their eyes started to water. “I hurt you, so you are scared.” 

“You nearly killed them!” Bahorel shouted. “Why the hell would you strangle a child?” 

“I didn’t mean to,” Combeferre stared at his boot. “Jehan was loud. My head hurt.” 

"Your head hurt," Bahorel was so close that Combeferre could smell citrus on his breath. "Your head hurt? Get out of my apartment before I make your head hurt."

"I need-" 

Bahorel punched him in the jaw before he could explain that he needed help. Valjean had said Combeferre wasn't allowed to hit anyone, but that rule didn't apply to Bahorel.

"Ask me again," Bahorel smiled, his hands still in fists. "Please." 

Did Bahorel want him to say please? Did Bahorel just want to hit him once? Bahorel hit Feuilly all the time. Maybe this was how Bahorel made friends? 

"Help me, please?" Combeferre asked.

Bahorel punched him in the sternum, knocking the air out of his lungs. Combeferre didn't understand what he did wrong. He asked again like Bahorel said and he said please. What did he do wrong? 

"Ask," Bahorel laughed. What was funny? 

"Help me-" 

With both hands, Bahorel shoved Combeferre backwards. It was a graceless fall, flat onto his butt. "Ask."

Maybe it was a riddle. Was he just supposed to say ask? Was he supposed to mimic? Combeferre didn't know what was so funny. He laughed with Bahorel, because the Bishop told him that'd help him make friends. 

"Ask?" Combeferre's laugh was fake, because he could not summon a real laugh when there was nothing he found funny. 

That wasn't right, because Bahorel kicked him. He wasn't supposed to just say ask. 

"Come on," Feuilly sighed as Combeferre frantically tried to figure out what Bahorel wanted. "He'll fuck off on his own."

"Ask me again," Bahorel held his fists aloft. 

Jehan was staring with their mouth open, no longer crying. A yellow and blue skirt covered in green butterflies fell right below their knees. They weren't anatomically correct butterflies, just doodles. Their shirt was a plain purple, and the outfit along with their hair was more color than Combeferre would have liked to see in one place. 

Bahorel and Combeferre were still laughing when Joly said, "I don't think this is nice." 

"Ask me," Bahorel's teeth showed when he laughed and Combeferre wondered if his did too. "Ask me. Are you too stupid to get this?" 

Bahorel was calling him names, which meant Bahorel was laughing at him, so Combeferre stopped laughing. He hadn't realized that he was the joke. He'd read the situation wrong and it wasn't a nice smile, it was a mean smile. 

Bahorel didn't want to help get rid of the raccoons from his apartment. Combeferre patted his legs and he watched Jehan wince, then scamper back to Joly. 

"Go back to your apartment," Bahorel crouched down and Combeferre wished he was allowed to hit him in the teeth. 

"I can't. There are raccoons." 

"Why don't you under-" 

Feuilly shouted. "Bahorel doesn’t want you here! Go sit in the lobby!” 

That was a plan he could use. He nodded curtly, then rose to his feet, avoiding looking at Bahorel. If there were no raccoons, then it was safe. Maybe someone else would come later and they'd help him. 

The elevator ride was short, and Combeferre sat in one of the red chairs with faux bronze backing. There were two right by the elevator, where the front doors opened to a little room. Across from the chairs was a door, presumably to 1's apartment. 

Bahorel had laughed at him and put raccoons in his room. No one would help him get them out, either, at least no one from Bahorel's apartment. Valjean and Javert both seemed upset with him, so it wasn't reasonable to ask for help, not from them. And if he couldn't get help from them, then no one in the apartment building would help him.

Combeferre wrapped his arms around himself and wondered what he’d have to do. He could just abandon the apartment. If he lived in the lobby, then he wouldn’t ever have to see the raccoons again. Even if he only lived here for a month, then the raccoons would starve to death, and he could safely remove them. 

The doors of the elevator dinged and Feuilly stepped out. He watched for a few moments as Combeferre rocked himself back and forth, muttering about raccoons and possible solutions. Combeferre would figure this out. There had to be a solution.

“For the record,” Feuilly said, even though Combeferre had no way to record. He didn’t have a microphone, or even a pen and paper. This wasn’t going to be any kind of official record but Combeferre, still hugging himself, listened. “I told him not to do it last night.” 

“And him hitting you was just as fucked up as you wringing Jehan’s neck like wet laundry,” Feuilly sighed as Combeferre stared at the ground. The floors were marble and would have been cool to the touch, if Combeferre was allowed to touch the floor. The Bishop had told him that was not allowed. “You’re obviously going through some shit. The Games are hard.”

The Games were only hard at the end, but Combeferre nodded. Some shit was raccoons in his apartment, to be specific, but it was terrible. He never wanted to see another raccoon again. 

“Bahorel and Jehan think you’re out for blood.” Feuilly laughed shallowly as he sat in the chair next to Combeferre, “But you’re not, are you? There would have been easier times to kill Jehan, if that’s what you wanted to do. You were four feet away from them for months.” 

“I don’t want to kill Jehan,” Combeferre whispered. “I want to kill the raccoons in my apartment.”

“Of course, yeah. We’re not gonna kill the raccoons though. Bahorel’s got a trap, and in a couple days he’ll be less mad. Do you want to stay in my apartment? The view from 11 is good.” 

“There is a raccoon in my apartment,” Combeferre rocked side to side, then bumped Feuilly’s shoulder. Was he going to be punished for that? “A raccoon attacked me.” 

“On your face, yeah?” Feuilly leaned forward, then turned to look at Combeferre closely. “I’ve got disinfectant, if not we can steal some from Grantaire. He’s got a full medkit in his apartment. Come up with me.” 

“Raccoon,” Combeferre mumbled.

“Yeah, not in my apartment,” Feuilly sighed. “I hardly use 11’s. Only during training.” 

“My apartment has a raccoon,” Combeferre babbled. He wanted to sit on the floor that would be cold, so he decided he’d do something the Bishop told him not to. Sliding off his chair, he tucked himself into a corner then curled up as best he could. 

The floor was cold, just like he thought it would be. 

“And this is why they made Javert come home with me,” Feuilly chuckled a little, then joined him on the ground. “You need a hug?” 

Combeferre didn’t answer, he just sat there touching the ground with one bare hand, face tucked behind his knees. He only knew there was a raccoon in his apartment, and it attacked him. 

Strong arms wrapped around Combeferre, holding him in place. Feuilly wasn’t wearing his cologne, so he just smelled of soap and deodorant. It wasn’t awful, so Combeferre rested his head against Feuilly’s chest. Then he cried.

“They didn’t prepare you for after,” Feuilly whispered, squeezing Combeferre. “Whatever they told you, they didn’t know how it’d be. No one knows. 13 didn’t-” 

“I wasn’t supposed to win,” Combeferre sobbed. “There’s a raccoon in my apartment and it’s so loud and bright all the time, and I was supposed to die.” 

“You won, it’s okay,” Feuilly kept shushing him. “It’s okay. They trained you for the first part, and we’ll get you through the rest-” 

“They trained me to die,” Combeferre hiccuped, barely audible. “The boy I like, he was supposed to win. We were a team.” 

“Here’s the deal, we’re going to go up to my apartment,” Feuilly patted Combeferre’s back. “And you can lay on the couch trying to feel like a person again. I’ll get us whatever you want to eat and you can just sit until you want to do something else. Just like at the base, but just us.” 

Carefully, Feuilly held a hand out, and Combeferre staggered to his feet, rubbing his eyes. The elevator noise still reminded him of Courfeyrac, but it was nice to have someone’s hand to hold, even if he didn’t love Feuilly. 

“It’s going to be okay,” Feuilly reassured him as the elevator reached its destination.

Combeferre hoped he was right.

Cheers for being 30,000 words longer than I anticipated. The next in the series will probably start being posted October 1st. If you enjoyed this (or didn't I guess) let me know what you think in the comments below.