Title: Confide In Me
Work ID: 48779605
Author: mmmetanoia
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Emotional Hurt/Comfort, Suicidal Thoughts, Suicide Attempt, No beta we die like Javert’s will to live, Javert Needs a Hug (Les Misérables), Alternate Universe - Modern Setting
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

What a wonderful day to die. The sun shines mercilessly, piercing him with its dazzling rays, like a lot of sharp but invisible knives. Isn’t that some kind of torture? He doesn’t deserve the light.

The waves of Seine are sparkling in the sun, trying to embrace the stone bridge under his feet.

An interesting paradox in itself. Agitated water will never be able to absorb or even stir the stone. Once his faith was exactly like this stone. Unbreakable.

Now look at him standing here. He can't even climb over the railing in a daylight and be done with it all! His hands are shaking, dialing an unfamiliar number from a crumpled piece of paper. The boy in the ridiculous cap who handed him this paper ran to wave his leaflets around the corner. However, it is not surprising, suicides are frequent on that bridge. He knows it for sure. He looks at the crime news bulletin every morning.

Sunset is coming very soon. He dials the last number on the phone, as if in a dream. Pathetic!

He decided that if no one will answer for a long time, then he would just…

“Hello, my name is Jean, how can I help you?”

~

Jean Valjean's day did not start well since early morning. His daughter said she wanted to move in with that Marius guy, but she needed Valjean’s blessing for this. A blessing that — God knows! — was so hard to give.

If Valjean agrees, he will be left completely alone. But! He must think about her happiness. His wonderful daughter Cosette, the most beloved soul in the world, will be happy.

Does he have the right to stop her? She's so in love! And this Marius, well, he's not so bad. They’ve met several times, the kid was nice and polite. And thanks to his uncle's money, he could provide a decent life for his dear Cosette. Because an ordinary student is not able to give her everything she needs, so obviously the help of his uncle and Valjean will be absolutely welcome.

So hard to make the right decision — the choice between your own selfishness and the joy of your daughter. He still hasn't given an answer. He promised to return to this conversation in the evening.

And now evening is approaching with frightening speed. Sunset is coming soon. Valjean's shift on the helpline will end in an hour.

The phone rings, and Valjean presses the button and adjusts the earphone.

“Hello, my name is Jean, how can I help you?”

At the other end of the line someone sighs wearily.

Then there is a rustling sound, which experienced Jean perfectly recognizes.

“Please, wait, don’t hang up! Let us talk. Isn't that why you called, to talk?”

“It was a mistake,” The tired male voice answers as if from afar.

“But what if it wasn’t? Let us find out together, alright? I know you may be doubtful or scared…”

“I’m not scared,” The man suddenly replies sharply. “If you only knew who I am. I’m anything but scared.”

“I trust you on this,” Valjean says calmly. “Do you wish to tell me more about you then? So I know who you are.“

“No.”

“Okay, it is totally fine. Are you feeling hopeless?”

“Yes.”

“I’m very sorry to hear that. Are you having suicidal thoughts?”

“Yes.” He sounds distant.

“Are you in danger to yourself?”

“You mean… am I going to kill myself right now?” The man snorts.

“Are you?”

Valjean faces the despair of other people every day. And although he knows how to talk to those people, it doesn't get any easier with each passing day. Valjean treats everyone with great compassion and tries to help with all his heart.

“Monsieur?” Valjean says, when the silence drags on. “Are you still with me?”

“I’m here.” The tired voice answers.

“Can you tell me where you are? I am hearing the slight noise, so I assume you are somewhere on the streets.”

“Good guess. I’m standing on a bridge.”

This is definitely a dangerous situation. Valjean must tread carefully so as not to frighten that man, not to push him into the river.

“There should be a magnificent sunset soon, for sure it looks very beautiful from the bridge. Do you like sunsets?”

“Oh my god, what kind of question is that?” He says with annoyance. “Are you a poet or something?”

He almost spits out the word.

Valjean does not immediately find the words to reply.

“I am not, but I do like reading classic literature. You don’t, I suppose?”

“I have no time for silly things, I have a real job. Well, I had.”

“I see. Is it the main reason for your condition? You lost your job?”

“Yes. No. I quit. About an hour ago. That was my decision only.”

Valjean is silent, hoping that now this person will open up. But it’s not happening.

“It seems to me that you loved your job. Why did you have to quit?”

The man sighs, like Valjean is a negligent schoolboy who asks the wrong questions at the blackboard.

“I'm definitely wasting time with you. But fortunately that’s exactly what I wanted. Tell me about yourself instead. Why did you choose to work in the hotline, of all places?”

Valjean coughs, trying to hide his confusion.

“I want to help people. Someone like you, who lost their way. I believe it’s never hopeless. There is always a way out.”

The man laughs hysterically. That sounds awful to Valjean ears. Poor man, he thinks. Valjean knows this terrible state of mind too well.

”You are absolutely right. There is a way out. Jumping from the bridge looks very suitable to me.”

”But you called the hotline. You want another way out, and I assure you — it exists.”

Valjean tries to sound confident, he did this hundreds of times, he knows precisely what to say. Although each case is different. But those people who call the hotline still continue to hope, right? They still continue to believe, even a little. And this should be enough to ignite a flame of faith from just a spark.

To be completely honest, there were also failed cases in Valjean's practice. There were ghosts that haunt him daily. They will haunt him for life, those shadows of people he couldn't help. And now Valjean really hoped that this strange man from the bridge would not become one of them.

”Please, tell me about yourself more? Why did you go to the bridge in the first place?” Valjean asks.

”Not very far from work, that’s it. No great story behind my decision. Dissapointing, isn’t it?” He sounds so defeated.

”I don't expect an incredible story from you. Let’s leave it to the poets.” Valjean smiles. ”I’m glad to listen to anything you want to tell me. Whatever you feel the need to share. So, now I know that you don’t like reading. How do you like to spend your free time then? Theaters, movies? Museums?”

”Free time?” He smirks. ”I don’t have… Well, on the other hand... museums…” He hesitates for a moment.

”You like museums?” Valjean encourages him.

”I liked The Musée de l'Armée. And I’ve always wanted to visit The Paris Sewer Museum. I can see it from here, actually.”

”Oh, wonderful, that one! I’ve been there last summer, very fascinating, I recommend it. You should definitely visit! Can you tell me your name? You can come up with any name you like.”

”I don’t come up with things.” He all but mimics Valjean’s voice. ”I prefer not to tell any kind of lies. Only if it’s in the line of my job. And there is nothing special about my name anyway. I’m Javert.”

It can’t be! The same Javert who was a guard in prison during Valjean's imprisonment twenty years ago. He remembered the young and promising guard very well. Impeccable posture, strict look, always neat appearance. He was the most feared of all, but he was also fair to the prisoners.

He never smiled on his own and never laughed with other guards. He did not condemn the authorities, he did not gossip under the cover of the night. Valjean always thought he was just as strict with himself as to people around him. With this great diligence he should have already occupied a good post.

Сould it be that he was so disillusioned with the world and his position that it led him to the bridge? Could it be that he is unhappy for another, more personal reason?

What happened to Javert, always so dedicated, so determined?

”I made you speechless, that’s new.” Javert says.

”It’s just that I… I’d like to know what’s on your mind, Javert?” Valjean sighs bitterly. ”Why do you think you have no choice?”

Javert probably notices how Valjean's voice changed, how the conversation subtly became even more serious.

He answers wearily:

”I don’t know how to live anymore.”

”I’m listening, Javert. Tell me.”

”It’s complicated. You can’t help me, not really.”

”I want to.”

”You’re just a voice to me. I’m just another charity case to you. But you can’t save everyone.”

”I want to try. You called me!” Valjean exclaims.

Javert is suddenly silent.

”You called the hotline, I mean. I want to help you.”

”And I want a temporary distraction. I can’t jump while there are people around me, I'm waiting for a sunset.”

You’re waiting for help — Valjean wants to yell at him.

”I can’t fix your problems, but I need you to feel that it’s not hopeless, Javert.”

”You're starting to annoy me to the point when I want to argue with you!” Javert raises his voice. ”It is not as simple as it seems. You listen to other people's sad stories for days, but do you understand what it's like? Standing on the brink of death? When nothing in the world makes sense! When…”

”Yes!”

Valjean should not give in to emotions. He immediately tries to calm down and says more quietly:

”Yes, I understand what it’s like. I really do. Believe me. I was in a very dark place once in my life. I’ve found my salvation. And if I could do it, then you certainly will, too.”

”You know nothing of me. Or maybe… you do know me?” Javert says suspiciously. ”I told you my name, and your voice has changed, you’ve become emotional, you’ve become more insistent. Have I ever arrested you?”

No, but that doesn't mean you haven't tried — Valjean wants to say. Yes, their story did not end in prison twenty years ago. After being released Valjean still remained under the watchful eye of the government, and Javert as a policeman visited him a couple of times about ten years ago. Javert was looking for misdemeanors that would put him behind bars again. Javert did not believe that criminals could change. He always seemed so unshakable.

And now he’s determined to take his own life.

”So you’re a policeman.” Valjean answers, trying to collect his thoughts.

”I was.”

”You resigned, I remember. But why do you think about criminals, and not friends and acquaintances?”

”I know everything about my colleagues and acquaintances. I have files on them. No one works in hotline.”

Valjean notices how Javert ignored the word "friends".

”Are you going to keep pretending? Or are you going to admit it already?” Javert strictly pronounces.

Valjean feels like he’s being interrogated. Again. Like he was being interrogated in the not-so-good old days.

”It doesn’t matter!” Javert cuts himself off. ”It doesn't matter anymore. Goodbye, whoever you are. The sunset is beautiful. You were right.”

To Valjean's horror, Javert hung up.

”Jean!” Female voice comes from behind him. ”Your shift is almost over!”

”Yes, Eponine, it is.” Valjean says in a colorless voice. Immediately he shakes off his stupor and goes online on his phone.






I’ve always wanted to visit The Paris Sewer Museum. I can see it from here, actually.


It means that Javert is near pont de l'Alma — he’s on that bridge!

”It must be pont de l'Alma!” Valjean whispers, his hands are shaking. ”Please, God, it must be!”

Javert can’t become another ghost to haunt him for his mistakes. If he dies, he will be right — Valjean has not changed.

Valjean dials the police number, but disconnects almost instantly. No. It is unknown why Javert decided to commit suicide, but he has always been an honourable servant of the law. He won't be thrilled to be presented in such a way. But if he drowns himself, everyone will know anyway!

What should he do, what should he do?

Valjean puts his head in his hands in despair. He is losing precious seconds of Javert’s life.

It’s not dark outside. Surely someone will see Javert jumping off the bridge? Surely someone will jump after him and try to save him!

Come what may. Valjean calls a taxi. Pont de l'Alma is a five-minute drive away. He will be there.