Title: growth
Work ID: 45495760
Author: prolixcreature
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Suicide Attempt, Hurt/Comfort, Personal Growth, Redemption, Slow Burn, Canon Era
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 3/?


Javert stared into the black, roaring chasm at utmost attention. The night was so tremendously dark that the Seine was obscured by it, the only evidence of the river’s existence being the nearly bellowing rush of water. The air was dank and tainted his tongue and airways with notes of mildew. The pandemonium in his head had ebbed to a deadly numbness, a habitual single mindedness overcoming him. In a senseless world he had again found duty. It was simple, like justice had once been to him, there was one path: that which led swiftly to the end. Javert hoisted himself onto the parapet with finality.


 


“Excuse me, Monsieur,” came the all too familiar voice of Jean Valjean, his very bane. “Please, come down, so we may talk.”


 


“Leave me,” he retorted sharply.


 


Valjean became very quiet for a moment, and Javert briefly thought he may have left. But, regrettably, the voice came again. “Inspector?” 


 


Even with his back turned, Javert could detect the acute surprise in Valjean’s tone. He must not have recognized him in the darkness.


 


Javert did not reply, frozen stiff by his new audience. Valjean approached, footsteps nearly drowned out by the clamor of the Seine. A touch came to his lower calf, dulled by the cloth of his greatcoat and trousers. 


 


“Come down.”


 


Swallowing his reflexive anger like bile, his words came out as a low hiss, “You will leave me or you will be arrested.” 


 


He could not follow through with the threat, he knew as soon as he uttered it. This irritated him immensely, and brought back the writhing dissonance that had plagued him from the moment he was given back his life. He would be damned by the law if he served his conscience, and damned by his conscience if he served the law. Any which way he went would be blighted by dishonor. This, he could not stand.


 


“If I save a life in doing so, then so be it.”


 


Blood roared in his ears like the Seine. He inhaled a slow, calculated breath, then turned from oblivion and came down. Valjean, engulfed in shadow as he always seemed to be, stood before him. The infernal saint.


 


“What care could you possibly have for my life?” Javert spat, moving as close as he dared to be. “My life, that has been dedicated to destroying yours.”


 


“It is not the fact that it is yours, but that it is a life at all.” Valjean remained still as a millpond, which irritated Javert further. “You may arrest me without resistance, as you had intended upon.”


 


This gave him pause. How was he to tell Valjean that he could not? To so blatantly contradict himself so quickly seemed demeaning and foolish. But how much further could Javert be demeaned, really? How much more of a fool could he make himself out to be?


 


“I cannot arrest you.”


 


The other cocked his head slightly, “Why is that?”


 


Javert laughed, short and perhaps, to an extent, hysterical. An ugly sound. “You mock me.”


 


“I do not; I wish only to understand your change of heart.” 


 


If Valjean had not sounded so sincere, Javert would have thought he was joking. He did not know if Valjean was the type to joke. In fact, he did not know the man at all. After all these years of believing he knew Valjean, knew that he was a lawless degenerate and seeking to see nothing more, it was apparent to him that he knew nothing.


 


All the same, the idea of explaining himself to Valjean was humiliating. But, unlike the admission that he would not be arresting the other, explanation as to why was strictly unnecessary. Javert may have owed this man his life, but he did not owe him a key to his inner workings.


 


“The pertinent fact of the matter is that it has changed, not the reasoning behind its doing so.”


 


“I suppose so.”


 


A thick silence fell between them again, much like that which had befallen them on the carriage ride to M. Gillenormand’s residence with the unconscious boy. It was heavy and awkward, raging with words unsaid.


 


Once more, Valjean broke the silence, “If you do not wish to speak with me, at least allow me to escort you to your lodgings.”


 


His brow furrowed, “Why would you insist upon such a nicety? You are a free man— nothing binds you here any longer.”


 


Valjean wore a grim expression, “I am bound by ethics. I fear that if I do not ensure it, you will not find your way home tonight.”


 


Pivoting slightly on his heel so that he no longer had to face the other, Javert made a strangled noise of frustration. “No. I will not have it.”


 


“And I will not have you dying.”


 


He met Valjean’s gaze again, nose wrinkling with distaste, “You are pigheaded. Leave me.”


 


Valjean shook his head, “I cannot.”


 


“

Why

?” the question burned his throat, inquiring more than it did at face value.


 


Then, Javert swore there was an inkling of softness that passed Valjean’s face, but it was gone as quickly as he had noticed it, and the other man’s features again grew stony. “I will say as you have: the ‘why’ is not of particular pertinence.”


 


Finally he yielded, “Fine.” He supposed he owed Valjean the service of living his life, now that it had been saved by him twice over.


 


Valjean gestured for Javert to go ahead, so he did. The other fell in line behind him, to Javert’s chagrin.


 


“If you are to insist upon this ridiculous charagde, at least give me the dignity of not being followed.” Silently, Valjean appeared beside him.


 


They continued that way, walking side by side, unspeaking, down the murky Parisian streets until they reached the foot of the Haussmann apartment building Javert resided in.


 


“We have arrived,” Javert said stolidly, “I am certain your conscience should allow me to enter my quarters alone.”


 


Valjean simply stared at him for a couple moments, and Javert was ready to snap at him again when he eventually nodded.


 


He refused to indulge Valjean the nicety of a goodbye, turning to the building fully and heading inside. The porter made no comment as to the hour, as Javert would often return home late from the station.His ‘note for the administration’ came to mind and he cringed, knowing it would arouse questions. 


 


Traversing the stairs, Javert decided he must resign. He would write the letter in the morning.


 


The very idea of ‘executing justice’ made his head pound, and even more so did the question of what justice truly meant. Reasonable morality and the law had been one in his mind for as long as he cared to remember, and as they were suddenly split in twain, he felt he had been as well. 


 


He locked his apartment door behind him, and he got to thinking that morality was not reasonable at all. Javert would go so far as to say he had found divinity in the law, and he had lost his faith. He had not a clue as to what was right and what was wrong, which made him an entirely unsuitable lawman.


 


Realizing that he had stalled at the door, he shook his head and began to get ready for sleep.


 


Who was he, if not a man of the law? What was he to do? How was he to live? Sieges of questions haunted him still, though addled by exhaustion.


 


When in due course he lay in bed, the shadowed-black ceiling reminded him of the Seine.


In the late hours of the morning, Javert handed off his letter of resignation. The act weighed on his soul so heavily that he felt leaden and incapable of movement, confining himself to bed for most of the afternoon. This did not alleviate his symptoms of despair, in fact exacerbating them. Being left to one’s own devices when said devices were inclined to self destruct was not a pleasant thing. Nor were his thoughts, ceaseless and denouncing with no discernible resolution. It was driving him off his head.

 

And he was so inclined to blame Valjean for the whole affair. After all, had he not felt obligated to rescue the poor, poor inspector, Javert would not be here to think at all. He scowled at the thought, gritting his teeth when the secondary notion that it was his own fault at the root resurfaced. After all, had he not been blinded by his convictions, Javert would have seen the iniquity much sooner. Before its hands had become his own. 

 

Now those marred hands of his looked foreign. They were not the hands of Inspector Javert, they were the hands of a man lost. He had not been given a first name when he was born, but ‘Javert’ had always sufficed. However, when he had been appointed inspector, the title quickly became something of a first name to him. For years he was addressed as nothing other than Inspector Javert, it was his only identity. 

 

He did not have any hobbies, companions, or family of note, there was only his work. He was not ‘Javert the artist,’ ‘Javert the friend,’ or ‘Javert the son.’ He was Inspector Javert, that was all. And he was satisfied with that.

 

Or, rather, he had been satisfied with that. Javert was dead to the law, now, he was sure. But was the law dead to Javert? Evidently, it was unjust in many ways— which almost made him laugh. Justice unjust? But the humor in the idea was brief, and swiftly became appalling. He had followed the law by the letter and for that he was unjust, for that he was cruel. What a foul world to live in, where what was meant to protect instead destroyed. Even fouler that the intended protectors believed this destruction was righteous.

 

Javert stewed in this manner for a long while, but ultimately resolved that he must do something with himself. Living uselessly was worse than being dead. His mind drifted to 55 Rue Plumet nearly immediately, which he censured himself for. What would he even do, should he go there? Thank Valjean—? Or, worse, apologize to him? The idea was nauseating, yet his thoughts remained firmly planted.

 

It was proper to do these things, Javert knew, but he doubted his capability to do so. He was more inclined to kill Valjean than to talk to him, a will that persisted despite its manifest wrongness. But Javert had never murdered someone, and he did not intend on ever changing that fact.

 

More accurately, he supposed, he had never murdered someone in the eyes of the law. He briefly wondered whether he had ever murdered anyone in the eyes of the Lord. The image of the whore Valjean had accused him of killing seared itself into his mind’s eye, then, and he swallowed.

 

Without further event, he focused on getting ready to go out. He dressed differently than usual, though this should have been no surprise considering his usual wear was his uniform. Unexpectedly, he discovered a blue, silken cravat in his closet— It was a gift, he believed, but he could not recall from who on what occasion. With deft fingers he secured it around his neck, then donned a dark gray, cotton vest and frock coat, as opposed to his typical black, wool vest and greatcoat. 

 

It was certainly a lighter choice of attire, in both color and material, which he hoped would mean less sweat than what he consistently dealt with in the summer months. Freshening himself in the restroom, he noted when he observed himself in the mirror that the ensemble appeared almost new in quality, contradicting the dust he brushed from it. It struck him, then, how little he left the house for anything other than work, meaning there was no occasion for him to wear these clothes.

 

Some may have described this as saddening. In his reflective state, he may have even described it as such. But there was nothing to be done about it besides wearing them more in the future. The blankness in his mind at the word future alarmed him, but he was able to recover to relative stolidity with haste.

 

And, taking his reliable top hat from the rack and placing it on his head, he was off. With more thought (he did not used to think so much, which was decidedly a better way to live), he came to the conclusion that he must pay Valjean a visit.

 

The walk felt faster than it was, mind occupied with what he would say, what he could say. So, when he made it through the vast, wild garden of the Rue Plumet and arrived at its grand doors, he almost felt surprised. 

 

There was a long moment of pause that buzzed with dread before he knocked. Soon, he was greeted by a woman older than himself and perhaps even older than Valjean— She appeared perplexed by his being there, either because they did not have many visitors or simply because she did not recognize him. All the same, there was a maternal sort of gentleness about her that made it clear she would not treat him unkindly.

 

When she spoke, it was with a slight stutter, “Good afternoon, Monsieur. What— What b-brings you to the Rue Plumet?”

 

“I am here to speak to…” He trailed off for a second, almost forgetting to use Valjean’s new alias, “Monsieur Fauchelevent. On a matter of personal business.”

 

The older woman nodded, though some perplexity lingered on her drawn features, “May I have your name? To inform Monsieur Fachelevent of your being here. Though, I m-must let you know he may not be available. His daughter, young Cosette, is to be wed in February and he has taken it upon himself to aid in her planning as much as possible.”

 

Javert raised a brow, but that was all. He would not allow himself to inquire or even ponder further into the personal life of Jean Valjean. It was not his business. But, of course, he remained curious. 

 

“Javert,” was his simple reply. 

 

Then she looked like she had a question to ask, but before she could there was a call from within the house.

 

“Toussaint, who is at the door?”

 

“A gentleman by the name of ‘Javert,’ Monsieur.”

 

There was silence for a little while, and Javert itched with curiosity as to what was going on. Then the Toussaint woman left with a wry glance and was replaced with Valjean.


Valjean fixed Javert with a strange look, something similar to what he imagined Abraham looked like when God Himself asked that he sacrifice his only son. He appeared very old this way, his long-suffering face etched with deep lines. “Hello, Inspector,” Valjean greeted politely.


 


He cringed internally, “It is just Javert, I no longer work for the police.”


 


Valjean’s brows raised minutely, and Javert could tell he was schooling his expression. “I see.”


 


There was a stretch of silence, again filled with that buzzing dread, before Javert mustered the will to begin what he had set out to do, "I am here to talk."


 


"Ah," was all Valjean said for a beat. Then, "You are welcome to do so inside."


 


"That will not be necessary," Javert retorted, "my sentiment is brief."


 


"I insist."


 


With great reluctance, Javert supposed he was here in the name of civility, so he may as well accept the offer in the same name.


 


"Okay."


 


Valjean nodded, leaning back against the door to allow Javert inside.


 


He removed his hat and entered, hearing the door shut softly behind him, then turned to face Valjean once more. The other man gestured to the clothing rack, and Javert complied to put his hat upon one of the hooks, but kept his coat on. Valjean ventured further inside and he followed until they reached what was what may have been one of many living rooms, considering the size of the house.


 


"So," Valjean began, sitting at one end of a polished wooden table, "What do you wish to talk about?"


 


Javert sat across from him, "Not so much to talk, but to tell." His mouth suddenly felt very dry, the words he had practiced along the way leaving him. When interacting with Jean Valjean, Javert had always been on higher ground (and had always lost, nonetheless), but here, now, he was sitting at Valjean's table in Valjean's house intruding upon Valjean's time to express his feelings. Had you told Javert that he would be in this position a mere couple weeks ago, he would have struck you. A completely ridiculous and degrading notion, to do such a thing with a convict. To do such a thing at all! Javert was not one for feelings, and even less for talking about them. "I... Am in your debt. Twice over, though I believe the first has been repaid."


 


The other appeared oppositional, but permit Javert to continue to speak.


 


"I believe it would be appropriate to express my gratitude to you for saving my life, but I am not a dishonest man. In truth, I wish you had not found me at the bridge." Valjean's brow furrowed, and Javert did his best to pay it no mind. "But you did, so I am alive."


 


Valjean spoke slowly and with intention, "You are not in my debt. I acted according to my conscience, not to receive something in return."


 


"I am. You will not persuade me otherwise, so do not try."


 


Valjean frowned, but ultimately resigned, "If that is your ambition. Though, there is nothing for you to do. I live a tame life," and the last note was added with a touch of bitterness, "outside of pursuit."


 


Javert opened, then shut his mouth. Now would have been a good time to deliver the apology Valjean so deserved, but the idea of verbally admitting his failures was so appalling that he was rendered speechless. Instead, regaining his bearings, he said, "Your case is not one the prefect is actively seeking to solve, it was my own vendetta that kept it alive. With my being out of the force, I doubt you will have much more trouble in that respect."


 


The other's eyes lit at this, "Is that so?"


 


"It is so," he nodded.


 


"I see." It seemed as though a great weight had been lifted from Valjean's shoulders, then, as everything about his manner lightened, albeit in subtle ways.


 


Javert was no fool, he knew that living in hiding for over a decade had to burden someone mightily. However, he was foolish in the respect that he had never before considered this. Of course, never before had Valjean seemed so human as he did now. Always a brute or a saint, never a man.


 


Now, Javert felt, he was seeing Valjean as a man for the first time. He saw his crimes, he saw his mercy, he saw a very tired man being given the chance to rest.


 


"I will no longer trouble you," Javert started, rising from the table, "But if ever you are in need of aid, you know where to find me."


 


Valjean nodded, then got up himself and proceeded to show Javert out.


 


The walk home felt slower than the walk there, his stream of thoughts more sluggish than the railway it had been previously. Talking things through, however momentarily, it seemed, served to appease his affliction somewhat.


 


Making it into his apartment, he realized he had not yet eaten today. So he hung his coat and fixed himself a quick meal of steamed turnips, bread, and a glass of wine. 


 


As he ate, he pondered his conversation with Valjean. 

His conversation with Valjean

. The situation’s very existence still shocked him. It took a great deal of self control on Javert's end to not be rude, and he felt he was almost entirely successful.


 


He held his head in his hands. Oh, how tired he was; Propriety exhausted him. He wished for many things, none of which he could have and therefore none of which he would inconvinience himself to list or dwell on.


 


Thinking on Valjean’s statement of there being nothing for him to do, Javert imagined he would never have to speak with Valjean again. This relieved him immensely, despite his ardence that he was in the other’s debt. And, if that was true, he would only ever have to see him in passing. This was good. Thinking about Valjean too much made him ill, so the less he was reminded of him the better.


 


It was then, as he cleared the table, that he realized he had forgotten his hat.
