Title: Inspector Javert and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day
Work ID: 34416646
Author: Kaleran
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert getting unjustly upset at minor inconveniences, that's it that's the fic, Established Relationship, Post-Seine, Alternate Universe- Javert Lives, Javert is still a police inspector, Cosette is referenced, Javert has a lot of feelings but refuses to acknowledge any of them except the angry ones, valjean loves javert, Javert loves Valjean
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Inspector Javert is not having a good day.

In the morning, he wakes up late, alone, and cold, Valjean absent from bed. This is unusual because Valjean always wakes him in the winter with a kiss to his forehead and a cup of hot coffee pressed into his hands before the sheets are even cool. When he dresses and emerges from their shared bedchamber, he finds Valjean idly looking out the window dressed in his awful yellow coat, having clearly taken an early morning walk as is common in the summers. Although now it is very cold, and he usually abstains in the winters. Javert cannot imagine such a cold walk pleasurable. Valjean is looking somewhat mournful as he sometimes does when he thinks of the past. Javert excuses it as a bad day on Valjean’s part while he rushes out the door already late, as Valjean has a great many such days although not in a long while, but that was only the start of things that went wrong.

It is snowing. Javert does not like precipitation no matter what form it takes. He nearly slips and falls on an icy patch of ground on his way to the prefecture, which leads him to swearing about the weather and how his socks are not quite thick enough to protect his toes. Once he arrives, he stands by the stove to defrost as he usually does. A spark lands on his trousers and catches fire, leading to a burnt hole in the garment that he will have to patch up again. He decides he has had enough of the stove, although his feet are still chilled, and moves on to work in an irritable mood.

Things only get worse from there. On patrol, he has to convince another officer that sleeping in the street in weather like this is dangerous and not illegal, slipping the grateful man a few sou while the other officer is not looking, and gives the name of a church that Valjean frequents where he knows the man will be safe. As usual in these instances of mercy, which are still new to him even after two years, his gut clenches thinking about what the dead Javert would have done. No doubt his former self would have left the man to freeze to death in the street without a care. The thought curdles in his mind like old milk and he mood only sours more.

Then there is the instance of a cutpurse, who leads Javert on a slippery chase through the frozen streets before being backed into a dead end. The young man, a boy even, pulls out a penknife and takes an unexpected slash at Javert’s face. The knife cuts a section of his jaw before falling to his neck, his leather stock stopping the blade in its tracks. Javert is so in shock at the sudden attack that the boy is able to flee, leaving Javert empty handed. He swears. Luckily, the cut is not anything serious, but it stings something terrible as he dabs at it with his handkerchief. Surely Valjean will fuss over him annoyingly as usual, even though Javert is perfectly capable of fixing himself up without assistance. The thought leaves him irritated.

Unfortunately, the knife was sharp enough to mangle his cravat and it refuses to sit right on his neck, leaving a crooked appearance to his dress. Javert swears at that too. When he removes the handkerchief from his face, he catches sight of a little blue ‘J’ in the corner and swears some more at ruining the handkerchief Cosette embroidered for him. He only has the one. Valjean has been so pleased to give it to him, and now he had gone and ruined it.

He trudges back to the prefecture in an ugly mood, his chin buried in his cravat and his hat casting a dark shadow across his frowning face.

The second half of his shift is paperwork. Javert despises reading and thus he despises paperwork. He writes so hard in his anger that the nib leaves dark blots of ink all over the page, which incites him to write it all over again a second time in a worse mood. He squints as he reads, reminding himself of Valjean’s gentle insistence on getting fitted for a pair of glasses. Javert’s eyes narrow further, a sneer making its way onto his lips. He does not want glasses. By the time he is to go home, he had a headache the size of France from all the blasted reading and he can hardly feel his toes, as unfortunately his desk is not close to the single furnace that heats the room.

It is snowing again, the lamplight more melancholy than cheerful in his mood. He kicks at snowdrifts as he passed, snarl on his face. It only serves to make his toes and wet and even colder than before, as apparently he is in need of a cobbler. His hands are shoved deep into his pockets, cane held under an arm, and his breath leaves him in frosty clouds that only serve to ice over his whiskers. Even the high collar of his coat cannot help him.

He slows when he crosses the Seine, memories he tries to forget coming abruptly to the forefront. That old Javert, that horrible, unfeeling man he used to be… It disgusts him to think back on his old life. To think that he was just! To think that blindly following the law was good even if itself goes against life and God! Javert scowls. It is better to let that Javert stay dead, left to the river to drown. As is right.

He takes off again at a brisk pace, fleeing those memories that leave him feeling ill and unstable.

When he finally arrives at the home he and Valjean share, door slamming behind him, he has worked himself into a frenzy of frustration. He pulls off his ruined cravat with one hand and throws his cane to the ground with the other.

“Javert?” Valjean asks from his seat in front of the fire.

“Damned weather, damned cutpurse, damned paperwork!” Javert snarls, all but throwing his coat onto the coatrack. He takes off his boots next, spying a hole in the stitching that had allowed snow to enter his boot. He growls at it, then tosses them to the floor without care.

“What happened?”

Javert makes a harsh gesture in the air to encapsulate every misfortune to befall him. “Everything! The weather is horrible, I singed my trousers again, my colleagues are foolish ninnies who feel that the law should condemn a man to death simply because he does not have a place of residence, a cutpurse got away from me after striking me with a knife—"

“You were injured?” Valjean asks, concerned.

Javert shakes his head. “It is minor and I do not need assistance, but look at what that boy did to my cravat! I spent the rest of the day looking like a fool. And I ruined my handkerchief, the one you had Cosette embroider. How stupid was I to use it to stop the bleeding before checking if it was plain or not?” He snarls, showing his teeth. “And then the damned paperwork! I could be doing a hundred other things, but instead I am chained to a desk to write reports that will hardly be glanced at!”

Valjean closes his book and rises, a kind look on his face that is entirely inappropriate to Javert’s mood.

“Do not look at me like that,” Javert growls. “If the day was not so cold, I would have walked this off.”

“Come,” Valjean says softly. “Sit. Let me warm you. I know how you hate the cold.”

Javert scowls at him for several moments, but Valjean is not deterred.

“Fine!” Javert declares at last, stalking over to the loveseat Valjean is sitting in.

He collapses with a huff, arms crossed firmly over his chest. At once, Valjean moves closer until their thighs are touching. He puts a hand on Javert’s knee as if to comfort, but Javert is far too upset to be comforted. Instead, it irritates him. Valjean opens his book again with one hand and continues reading.

The firelight is mesmerizing and little by little his irritation melts away, leaving him with ugly thoughts about the dead Javert. That man on the streets, Javert would have left him to die. The cutpurse, even as he got away, would be tracked like a hunted deer until an arrest could be made simply for assaulting an officer, never mind the theft itself. That Javert never would have questioned what made the boy so desperate he resorted to theft, would not have let him go so easily.

And the bridge. It always comes back to the bridge.

That starless night, the Seine rushing below him, the smoke and the canon-shot in the distance. The memory overwhelms him. Valjean had stopped him from jumping and he had hated Valjean, hated him more than he had ever hated anyone else in his life. How dare a convict stop him from doing what is right, he had thought. How dare such a man lay a hand on him. Valjean had talked softly, steel in his voice even then, for what felt like hours. The horizon was lightening by the time Javert had folded out of sheer exhaustion, allowed Valjean to see him home where he collapsed for a full day. A week later, Valjean showed up at his door again, and Javert had snarled at him again, and Valjean talked over his complaints, about mercy and God and a Bishop who saved Valjean's soul. Javert had hardly believed him then, imagine, a convict telling the truth!, but then a week later Valjean was back with the same stories, the same sermons. And the week after that. And so on, until Javert could not help but believe. Such a stubborn man, but Javert can admit he too can be stubborn.

Valjean strokes his thumb over Javert’s knee in a thoughtless motion, bringing Javert out of the memory. How can Valjean stand to touch someone so cruel, so unyielding? He had chased the man for over a decade and yet Valjean consents to be his lover.

“What is wrong?” Valjean asks eventually. “You look upset.”

“I am remembering the old Javert,” Javert answers in a low voice. “That cruel man would have left a man to die today. He would have ruthlessly tracked the thief until he could be thrown in prison without a thought.” He pauses. “He would not have a lover to bring him coffee in the mornings or sit with him in front of the fire. He would not deserve those things.”

Valjean’s thumb strokes his knee again. “You are no longer than man. You have overcome those flaws you now despise. You are a good man.”

Javert’s nostrils flare. “Am I?”

Valjean closes his book to place both hands on Javert’s face. “Mon amour, of course you are.”

Javert flinches at the endearment, displacing Valjean’s hands. “It would have been a thoughtless cruelty. The old Javert still stalks my thoughts, reminding me of my past deeds. He also despised the cold, hated paperwork, disliked mornings. Sometimes it feels like I have not changed at all.”

Valjean says nothing, only leaning closer and placing his hands back on Javert’s knee.

Javert sighs, some of the tension of his horrible day releasing in his exhale. He allows Valjean to warm his side, daring himself to be content. It feels selfish.

A long moment passes. The fire crackles, Valjean breathes beside him, Javert’s feet are warm for the first time today. The silence is nice.

“Do you know what today is?” Valjean asks hesitantly.

Javert frowns, thinking. “January tenth?”

Valjean looks away. “It is the anniversary of the day you first kissed me.”

Javert blinks. “It has been a year?”

“Yes.”

The fire pops.

“I thought you would like to sleep in this morning,” Valjean says softly. “That is why I did not wake you.”

“I would have preferred my coffee.”

Valjean lowers his head. “I apologize.”

“Stop,” Javert mutters. “It is not your fault my day was terrible.”

“But—"

“Jean.”

Valjean falls quiet.

“Not everything that goes wrong is your fault.”

“I wanted today to be special.”

Javert uncrosses his arms and takes Valjean’s hand. “Every time you allow me to do this is special.”

A flicker of a smile appears on Valjean’s face. “Did you ever imagine we would end up here?”

“Never,” Javert replies. “I thought I hated you, right up until I did not.”

Valjean kisses him, soft and careful. Javert reciprocates, although he is uncertain he is able to match Valjean’s carefulness. When Valjean pulls away, he is smiling. Even now, Valjean does not smile very often. It soothes something in Javert.

He kisses Valjean again, feeling his smile under his lips.

Maybe today is not so terrible after all.