Title: Locked in a Room
Work ID: 34324075
Author: Knyaz_Nikolai
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: javert being all woof woof snarl snarl, valjean is the only one patient enough to bear with his bullshit, no beta we die like javert on the bridge
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


"This is utterly ridiculous!"



Javert snarled, pounding his fist at the closed door but he heard no sound coming from outside. They really did it! They just left him here with Valjean and expected him to, what? Just deal with- Well, there was really 

nothing

 to deal with in the first place!



"It is against the law to imprison someone like that and I-"



"Javert, I'm afraid it is of no use."



Javert gritted his teeth and his eyes were flashing angrily as he looked at the white-haired man who seemed to project an aura of serenity in the face of the situation they found themselves in. And how dare he?! This situation was also his fault, perhaps predominantly so.



To be quite honest, it was nothing dire. They were just locked in one of the guest rooms in the house of the newly married madame and monsieur Pontmercy. The perpetrators of this unlawful action were most probably enjoying their time together in one of the numerous rooms in this house while at the same time forcing Javert to suffer Valjean’s company. 


“Maybe you don’t mind being imprisoned here but I do.”


His callous words were met with a flinch from the older man, the memory of 19 years of slaving away in Toulon still too fresh in his mind, especially when faced with the man who was there, who saw everything that Valjean had been back then. Despite that Javert could not feel anything more than a sparkle of regret, too caught up by his own feelings and the panic slowly rising in him.



It was like this: after saving his life and helping him get better, Valjean decided that he basically qualifies as a friend of the family. That, coupled with the fact that Cosette was grateful for not letting her father slowly waste away, apparently meant that he was to be a guest in Pontmercy’s household quite often. 



He had to admit that these visits were simply unbearable. That dolt of a lawyer still remained just a bumbling idiot in his mind, Valjean’s daughter inspired in him a strange feeling of guilt (why? for making him seem like a ruffian while she was a true lady? for him being the cause of her mother’s death?) and the man himself… He was the biggest problem of all. 



He was the reason why Javert kept coming back, drawn to the former convict like a moth to a flame. Many times he said to himself “enough”, promised that he would never try to contact Valjean ever again and yet… He couldn’t. He started… Craving.



It began innocently enough, with Valjean flashing him one of his smiles — they were not wide but there was genuine warmth in them and that little something that drew his gaze to Valjean’s lips. Then came the little touches, a feeling of a hand upon his arm, a short brush of shoulder against shoulder. And finally, before he knew it he found himself thinking about Valjean far more often than he should, less… Innocently. The dreams at night made him hesitant to fall asleep but when before they were related to the icy coldness of the Seine and its suffocating embrace now it was the scalding hot of a breath on his neck, a touch that burned his body, leaving scars in its wake. 



The solution to this was simple in his mind — he had to avoid Valjean. And since it was quite impossible to do so without worrying the man he had to do it subtly. So he sat further away at the table, found excuses to talk to someone else, tried not to look, not to feel, not to 

yearn

 and yet, it was all for nothing. 



More than that, apparently his actions provoked Cosette and Marius to put them together in a room and lock them here until they work out everything between them. Javert thought he should feel insulted, they were treating them like some… Children! Cosette dared also to mention that her father was hurting. 



A sarcastic laugh threatened to escape his lips. Valjean was hurting! And what of him? Has anyone really thought about the pain 

he

 was in ever since being fished out from that infernal river? Did Cosette know what it meant to yearn for oblivion and have it snatched away? Did she know what was it like to have the thing you want the most right in front of you knowing, it will never belong to you, that you don’t deserve it?



Damn it! Damn it all to hell, everything together with Valjean! He growled, kicked the door but it did not budge. Looking to the side he saw Valjean who looked hesitant now, his gaze darting from him to the floor. Javert was grateful for the silence, his emotions already too much for him to bear, even without Valjean’s comments.



His nostrils flared in this righteous anger, known only to those who are sure in their conviction that they have been wronged in some way. He approached the window but the sight did not comfort him — it was too high to risk a jump without a threat of some serious injury, especially since he was still not well after his plunge into the river.



A sigh came from his left as Valjean, still standing by the wall, decided to break the silence.



“Maybe this 

is

 the right moment to talk, Javert. I- I noticed you started avoiding me-”



“Valjean, don’t” he bared his teeth, bending slightly in the direction of the older man, a warning in his voice.



“And I want to know whether it is something I said or done-”



“Stop it.”



“Because if I had hurt you in any way, please, know it was not my intention and I-



“Shut up!”



“And I appreciate your presence and I wouldn’t want to lose y-”



Javert has had enough. With an animalistic snarl on his lips, he almost pounced at Valjean, trapping the man between the wall and his own body, pressing him to it and finally kissing him with all the ferocity of a desperate man.



I was everything he thought it would be and more at the same time. He did not care for Valjean’s beard slightly scratching his cheeks nor for the fact that he would hate himself for what he did afterwards. For now, the only thing that was important was the warmth of Valjean’s body against him, his lips under his own and the thrill the likes of he never felt, even when hunting criminals. But soon the initial anger, the euphoria and, finally, the courage left him and he awkwardly backed away, not daring to look at Valjean’s face. 



If he did, he would see the shock on the face of the older man. He, after all, did not expect that reaction. Of course, he suspected that Javert was hiding something – being himself an expert in lies and deflection the crude method picked by the inspector immediately aroused his suspicion. However, nothing could have prepared him for this. Some hope appeared in his eyes.



“Javert…”



“I do not need you to tell me it’s wrong. I 

know it.

 My sense of right and wrong is not that far gone.”



The biting tones of Javert’s voice were probably meant to deter Valjean from further prying. He did not wish to explain himself, to lay bare his sickness before the man who was almost a saint. He knew his… Affections, wrong as they may be, were not returned. He wouldn’t be surprised if Valjean still saw him as his jailer, nothing more. 



“Now you see why I avoided you and why it was necessary. I do not think we need to discuss it any longer.”



Javert’s jaw was set in an expression of complete stubbornness as he finally raised his eyes to see Valjean’s reaction to his words. What he did not expect was to find the man gently smiling with tears in his eyes, threatening to spill at any moment.



“What…?



“Oh, Javert. You utter fool.”



Maybe he would respond to this in indignation, maybe he would snarl and say something unpleasant but he froze as Jean covered the distance between them and kissed him. Strange how kissing and being kissed differed, how you could compare their kisses – Valjean with his kindness and softness to his own angry desperation. He did not understand. Was Valjean not angry? Disgusted? If he was doing this out of some misguided sense of obligation he will…



“Why?”



He asked quietly when they both had to catch their breath, foreheads touching, still standing oh-so-close to each other. His eyes looked closely at Valjean, waiting for the answer, trying to detect even the smallest hint of a lie. And when Valjean said “because I love you, of course” he saw none. 
