Title: On the corner of Oblivion
Work ID: 49690285
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Suicide Attempt, Implied/Referenced Suicide, Post-Seine, Title from a Madilyn Mei Song, Javert Lives (Les Misérables), Angst, Fluff, they cuddle
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


Javert woke up aching. Immediately, he knew something was wrong, and yet it was like his body wouldn’t do what his consciousness was trying to say. This is highly unusual for the inspector. He has always been known for his alertness, never truly allowing himself to rest. But today was different. 


 


Javert groaned, feeling the ache becoming pain. It was concerning how disoriented he feels. There was this weight at his chest, heavy and strong. Javert finds that he didn’t have the strength to fight against it. He tried to take a breath but his lungs hurt, burning him as if he was suffocating or drowning…


 


Javert’s eyes flashed open only to forcibly shut again against the blinding light. He was starting to remember it all. The day before, so monumental in its nature that he could almost believe it all to be a nightmare. But it wasn’t, the pain was proof of that. Javert remembered the school boys, the barricade; he remembered being tied up and sent to die. He remembered Valjean, the convict, the mayor, the saint that saved his life. Javert remembered letting him go in the end after delivering the boy, after taking Valjean to his address. He remembered the end, at least what Javert believes to be his end, looking down at the Seine as he does the one true justice; to punish himself. 


 


But it seems that justice never came true, for Javert was alive. Fragments of memories came back to him, and Javert feels a pain so confusing and unfathomable that it terrified him. Valjean saved him. The same convict he had tried so hard to capture jumped into the raging waters of the Seine just to save the man who had wanted to ruin his life. It was absurd, it was nonsensical. But it was true. Javert can almost picture the man’s face as he dragged his limp body off the river, can almost imagine the strength of those arms desperately clinging to him against the currents. He remembered Valjean shouting his name over and over and over.


 



“Javert! Stay with me,” Valjean had said, forceful and aggressive. “Don’t you dare.”



 



He felt hands all over him. Capable and beaten hands that try to be gentle. Javert felt cold all over, but the warmth of those hands stood out like a warmth granted by God. 



 



“Please, Javert,” Valjean had said. This one was more desperate, his voice hoarse and pleading.



 



Javert prefers the anger over this. 



 



“Please,” Valjean said again. He was pumping his chest and he was touching his lips, but Javert could not feel it. 



 



Until suddenly, he could. And it was an explosion of pain that Javert had never experienced before. 



 


It was a terrible memory. Javert had wanted to die for Valjean, yet the saint just had to punish himself once again. 


 


Suddenly, the weight on Javert’s chest moved, and he realized that it was not his heart and guilt that weighs on him, but rather the muscled arm of none other than Valjean. Finally, Javert’s eyes have accepted to see. They were in bed, in Valjean’s home if the pink curtains were anything to go by. The man had his arms around Javert as if to prevent his escape. Under different circumstances, Javert would have find humor in this. He turned his head, ignoring the spark of pain, and saw Valjean sleeping so close to him. The man’s face does not seem peaceful in sleep. Valjean was frowning, his forehead was creased in worry, and his grip on Javert remained tight. But he is still beautiful, Javert thinks. His white hair looks like a halo in the morning light. For a moment, Javert can’t help but admire this man who irrevocably changed his perception of life. For a moment, Javert let himself bask in this peace and quiet, imagining a life where this is possible.


 


Javert prepared himself to move, to extricate himself from Valjean’s life once and for all. He doesn’t deserve this kindness, even if he was saved. Javert has to continue a life of loneliness like he always had. He tried to remove Valjean’s arm from his waist but it won’t budge. He tried harder, straining his muscles until he felt a sharp pain on his shoulder. 


 


Javert forced himself to not let out a noise of pain. Already, Valjean grumbled in his sleep. Next, Javert tried to move his back, planning on moving his body off the arm without having to lift it. But that proved to be a mistake, because the moment, Javert moved his spine, he felt a pain so bad that he can’t help but cry out.


 


Valjean gasped, abruptly awake. He groaned as Javert looked at him with wide eyes. Valjean stared at him for a moment. 


 


“Javert…”


 


“Valjean.”


 


The older man looked him up and down. “Are you hurt?”


 


“What kind of question is that?” he said, irritated.


 


“I apologize. It was dumb of me to even…”


 


Valjean looked so meek that Javert almost wants to shout in frustration. But he knew it was not at Valjean he was mad at.


 


“I have to leave, Valjean.”


 


At this, the man stiffened. They were still laying in bed, and Valjean’s arms tightened around Javert. “Why?”


 


Javert sighed, exasperated. “I won’t kill myself again,” he mumbled.


 


“You can’t expect me to believe that,” Valjean scolded. “You are not in you right mind, Inspector.”


 


Javert can’t argue with that. He still tries to wriggle out of Valjean’s hug before realizing it was useless. The man can be as stubborn as him.


 


“Then what do you propose we do, then?”


 


Javert turned to face the other and sees Valjean’s gentle eyes as he said, “We shall rest. I’m certain you are as tired as I am.”


 


With Valjean carrying a body across the sewers and saving Javert from drowning in the Seine, Javert can believe that Valjean is physically more tired from all this. Mentally though, Javert might win in that.


 


He stops trying to escape and lets himself fall into the warmth of Valjean’s arms. He was so tired and everything aches, and Valjean is no different. The older man smiled at Javert.


 


“Why do you look at me like that?”


 


“I am merely glad you are alive.”


 


“I don’t understand why. I deserve worse.”


 


“No, you deserve a second chance. You have always been fair, even in Toulon. You were never evil, Javert. I believe you were just lost. You let yourself be blinded, but that has changed now with the help of the Lord.”


 


“You have always been way too kind to others.”


 


“And you are too unforgiving of yourself.”


 


“It is justice.”


 


“I do not know about justice, but I know I cannot fathom a world without you.”


 


Javert did not know what to say to that. They were still staring at each other, conversing as they lay in the same bed, intertwined with arms that do not wish to let the other go. Javert doesn’t know love, he never has and perhaps never will. But this might be enough.


 


Valjean didn’t complain about Javert’s silence. Instead, he pulled the younger man closer to him, letting Javert settle at the crook of his neck, hiding his face. If he saw the flush on the Inspector’s cheeks, he would not say a word about it.
