Title: One Wedding and an Existential Crisis
Work ID: 44602249
Author: dnsvarrr
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Additional Tags: Fanart, Fan Comics, Traditional Media, Jean Valjean Lives, Javert Lives, Javert Dislikes Marius, Post-Seine
Language: Русский
Status: Completed
Chapters: 4/4


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)






English translation below.

"So she's getting married that youngster?""Yes, him.""Wait, that's Pontmercy! But he is. You know. STUPID.""(Well he is) but Cosette loves him! I can't stop her.""Valjean, you and your mercy again!"

Marius: "He came for me from the other side..."


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)






English translation below.

"Papá, isn't he the same man who pursued us back then?""Just a misunderstanding. I came to your home to announce that your father had been cleared as a suspect, but he was absent. I decided to meet you both in the evening when I was on patrol. I was going after you only to tell you about an investigation error. Yes. Definitely.""Guess I'll have to believe that's true. After all I've seen plenty of strange things in my life."


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)






"By Jove, you're alive!""That's debatable.""I guess you're here to grab the pistols.""I was invited (you invited me, by the way). Wait. Pistols! Why didn't you shoot? "Bang!", that's all, as I said. Are you a coward (or an idiot)?""(No, I am not! I wouldn't be able to do it anyway) i really let you down. I thought the gang leader Thenardier was my father's saviour. Could you lay hands on your saviour?""Never mind. To hell with those pistols. Greetings et cetera. I'm sorry, I don't know how to greet newlyweds.""Th-thanks. May I go?""I have to go too."


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)






"Frickin' Marius. Frickin' Valjean. Need to think again. I shall resign. No, I did once, that was the trigger. No, I definitely shall resign. No. Yes. Frickin' Marius. Frickin' Valjean. FRICKIN' VALJEAN."