Title: pretty under lightning
Work ID: 51634531
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Crossdressing, Crossdressing Kink, Oral Sex, Established Relationship, Post-Seine, 7k of vj getting hot and bothered by javert in drag, also this is incredibly contrived. don't look at me., Kinktober 2023
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

To have stumbled into a striking, and unusually tall, older gentlewoman bearing formidable features on his way home from visiting Cosette had been entirely an accident; of no one’s fault in particular, save by mischance as Valjean and the lady each attempted to step around one other at precisely the wrong time and in precisely the wrong way.

To assist his newfound companion in regaining her balance, apologizing profusely the entire while—only to stand upright and in the process get a better look at her, Valjean’s breath catching and his words trailing off into stunned silence as he realized he was looking into the face of the man he loved—that, was rather something else altogether.

Javert’s immediate reaction to Valjean’s gentlemanly hand tightening around Javert’s elbow in shock had been to try and tug them both into the shadow of a nearby awning, out of any passerby's immediate line of sight. He fluttered a silk folding fan in front of his face and took several large steps back, steps that might have been faster had Javert not clearly been struggling to move as swiftly as he usually would, still unused to his long skirt and petticoats.

“Javert,” Valjean said, voice faint, head swimming, because there truly was no mistaking that face once he had glimpsed past the broad-rimmed bonnet and the thick coils of dark ringlets shot through with silver.

“Shhh!” Javert hissed, as if Valjean had shouted his name rather than scarcely whispered it. He darted a glance around the surrounding street and explained hurriedly, “I am on assignment, of course.”

“Of course,” Valjean agreed, unable to tear his eyes away from Javert and his fetching, voluminous disguise. Javert was the very picture of a modern lady in his fashionable curls and trimmed hat tied prettily under his aggressively square jaw, which seemed in the moment oddly softened to Valjean. With a start, he recognized rouge on Javert’s cheeks and the soot of lampblack lengthening Javert’s eyelashes, and a faint red tint shaping Javert’s lips. Valjean realized Javert must have applied some sort of cosmetics—perhaps more than was customary, although Valjean was a poor judge of most women’s preference for makeup; but on Javert it simply blunted the harsh lines of his features that were more characteristically masculine and, indeed, immediately recognizable as Javert’s by anyone who knew him, not only Valjean.

Clearing his throat, Valjean’s eyes darted over Javert’s bonnet and coat, the patterned parasol he held propped upon one shoulder. A curious fluttering rose in Valjean’s stomach as he took in the sight of the other man—still definitively Javert, once he stopped to look at him properly, but also... quite comely, Valjean thought, meticulously garbed in all the fine raiment of a gentlewoman. Valjean shifted and felt a flush rising to his cheeks, wondering at his own thoughts even as he considered the red tint to Javert’s lips and the layered fall of fabric of his skirts.

In an effort to divert the strange wanderings of his mind, Valjean attempted, smile wry, “My dear, were there no shorter men at the station for this assignment?”

He did not add, Or with less prodigious whiskers? In fairness, the glossy dark ringlets of Javert’s curled and coifed hair did hide a multitude of sins. And now Valjean was looking at those ringlets again, and the way they framed that face Valjean knew so well—the strange, pleasant contrast between the man Valjean knew as intimately as he knew himself, and the curves and swoops and delicate trimmings he recognized of women’s fashions—

“None with my experience in working undercover,” Javert huffed, crossing his arms briefly across his chest before remembering himself and immediately lowering his hands into the approximation of a demure clasp in front of his bodice instead. “Nor my knowledge of the suspects. It is because I know them so well that a disguise was necessary at all; they have been frequently sighted on this street and the surrounding alleys, and were unlikely to suspect I would dress to blend in thus.”

“You look lovely,” Valjean said honestly, and Javert’s head jerked toward him, obviously startled.

Valjean’s eye flitted over the other man, impressed by the lengths Javert must have gone to in order to disguise the broad, flat planes of his shoulders and narrow hips. He wore a high collared carrick of cobalt wool, the drape of its triple cape not dissimilar from his usual greatcoat; and what Valjean could see of his pale blue dress beneath had a high bodice covered by a lace pelerine. In combination with the carefully tied bow of his bonnet beneath his chin, the layers effectively hid Javert’s Adam’s apple from view, and the tailored lines of the coat and dress provided the suggestion of shapes and curves Valjean knew very well did not exist.

Despite the many hours he had patiently listened to Cosette describe this recent style and that latest trend, Valjean truthfully understood very little of what was popular for women to wear. But it would have been difficult not to recognize the large, puffed gigot sleeves, and Valjean smiled faintly at how well they hid the lean muscle of Javert’s arms. While Javert could do little for how large his hands looked where they grasped the handle of his parasol, he had swapped out his customary uniform gloves for an ivory-colored pair of soft silk, embroidered with a colorful spray of leaves and flowers; a small, matching handbag dangling from one wrist.

The contrast between the man Valjean had slept and woken and lived beside for several years now, and had never had cause to think of as particularly effete—with his strong jowls and impressive stature and hirsute chest Valjean loved to bury his face against—and the colorful fabrics and beautiful brocade of Javert’s disguise was... affecting, in a way Valjean would not have thought to consider on his own.

It was not that he had ever wished Javert were a woman instead, or that indeed Valjean had ever been drawn to what a woman wore or how she presented herself to look attractive or enticing. He had naturally learned a little of women’s clothing in raising a daughter, but beyond recognizing that Cosette was surely the most beautiful girl with the most impeccable taste in all of Paris—in all of France—Valjean had never given much thought to a woman’s dress or her makeup or her accessories, other than to idly note if something appeared unusually lavish or elaborate. And he had certainly never given any thought to women’s clothing in relation to Javert.

But Javert—ridiculously tall for any average woman, with hard edges and severe features no amount of supple fabrics and scrupulously applied cosmetics could entirely conceal—wearing fine clothes that would have never made Valjean’s head turn otherwise… Valjean found Javert, like this, unexpectedly…

Valjean felt a fission of heat begin to simmer in his veins as he once again found himself admiring the contrast between the broad, lean body he knew so well, and the beautiful garments Valjean had never much thought of before. He stepped closer, only just barely reminding himself to maintain some distance for the sake of propriety—Valjean could only just imagine what Cosette would say if she caught wind of even the slightest gossip about her Papa being seen standing far too closely to an unknown woman in the middle of the afternoon. With that thought in mind, Valjean gave a furtive glance to their surroundings; grateful that while there were some pedestrians afoot, and a passing carriage clattering along the cobblestone, the street was relatively quiet for the time of day.

He looked back at Javert and asked, pointedly tipping his head toward Javert’s ensemble, “Is there anywhere we could speak more freely?”

“There is a bookshop across the street that is closed all week because the owner is out of town visiting relatives,” Javert said promptly, and at Valjean’s raised eyebrows, Javert added in an undertone, “I had known the owner was leaving, and have been using it as another means of keeping a watch for our perpetrators—not only this disguise.”

Valjean glanced over Javert’s shoulder at what must be the empty bookshop he had indicated, and back to where Javert was frowning at him in some consternation; Javert had never appreciated being discovered in his disguises, and Valjean imagined he appreciated being found in this one even less. It was astonishing to recognize the tight moue of Javert’s mouth from within the morass of curled ringlets and effusive frills, and Valjean felt a warm tendril of fondness curl within his breast at the familiar sight despite the thoroughly unfamiliar trappings of ribbons and lace.

Proffering a bent elbow for Javert to grasp onto, Valjean tilted his head toward the bookshop. “Would you mind accompanying me, my dear?”

Javert’s brow furrowed beneath the high arch of his bonnet, and Valjean bit down on a grin at another expression he knew so well rendered anew and beloved all at once beneath the layers of frippery. “I had planned on returning home,” Javert told him, speaking each word slowly, gazing at Valjean askance as if trying to puzzle out Valjean’s reasoning. “The suspects have not shown themselves today, and my shift ended over an hour ago. If there’s something you wish to discuss, surely…”

“But I doubt you would wish to remain dressed this way when coming back to the house,” Valjean pointed out, his elbow still angled in Javert’s direction, waiting for the touch of delicate gloves.

“Of course not,” Javert said. “My uniform is still at the stationhouse; I intended to change there, first.” He gave an unladylike scoff and tossed his head, curls bouncing.

Valjean privately thought it was just as well the street was so relatively lifeless that afternoon, because for all his beautiful clothing Javert was somewhat lacking in the typical mannerisms of a gentlewoman, but Valjean did not think Javert would appreciate it just then if he expressed that particular opinion.

Instead Valjean released the smile he had been trying to tamp down, lowering his voice and allowing himself a step or two closer to Javert than what might be strictly decent for a woman and man of seemingly new acquaintance out in public. “Then would you come with me, dear heart?” Valjean murmured, catching Javert’s quicksilver gaze with his own and licking his lips. His eyes locked on Javert’s with deliberate intent, and Valjean watched the dark pupils contract as Javert sucked in a sharp breath, his rouged cheeks darkening as he realized what Valjean was suggesting.

“Jean—you cannot possibly—” Javert said, but he reached automatically for Valjean’s arm, allowing Valjean to lead them across the street toward the closed shop. “Here?” He glanced down at his unusual attire. “Now?”

Valjean paused outside the locked door, head angled up to Javert. “If you object to the location, or any other particulars—” His eyes swept along Javert’s bonnet and curls and dress, and Javert glanced away, fiddling with his parasol and collapsing it with a faint clatter.

“I would not wish for you to be uncomfortable,” Valjean added, sincere; leaning slightly away from Javert should the other man wish to withdraw his hand from Valjean’s arm, perhaps resume his original plans and return to the station to change back into his uniform after all. They were not often in the habit of attempting any of their usual intimacies outside the privacy of their own home, and while the inside of a locked shop posed relatively little risk of anyone stumbling upon them, Valjean could understand whatever objections Javert might raise—and that was without factoring in what he was wearing.

Javert turned to look at Valjean again, tugging at his lower lip with his teeth, heedless of the reddish tint he had applied. He studied Valjean’s face for a long moment, and Valjean could imagine what he saw there; likely something very similar to what he frequently witnessed in their bedroom.

“You like this,” Javert surmised, his eyes widening. Rather than release Valjean’s arm, Javert’s grip at Valjean’s elbow tightened in surprise. “This—everything. The dress.”

“I would not have considered it, myself,” Valjean admitted. “But you look…” Valjean coughed, feeling the warmth of his cheeks begin to crawl down the back of his neck. “If it’s agreeable to you, I would like to… see more.”

Javert did not respond right away, still peering at Valjean’s expression with all the familiar intensity of the Inspector.

“I do not understand it,” Javert said at last, shaking his head briefly before a smile ghosted across his thin lips. “But, very well. If you wish—”

He was forced to release Valjean’s arm to tug at the drawstring of his handbag and slide out the shop key. As Javert slotted the pin of the key into the lock and pushed the door open, he glanced over his shoulder at Valjean, the broad curves of his bonnet obscuring much of his profile from view. “You make me reckless, Jean.”

“No more than you make me,” Valjean promised, crowding behind Javert as quickly as possible; hoping there was little enough foot traffic along the street at the moment to witness a gentleman hustling a lady into a closed shop at five o’clock in the afternoon.

Valjean shut the door behind him with a blind shove of one hand, already feeling the heat that had been building in his veins ever since he realized the well-dressed madame was Javert begin to spread throughout his nerves, his limbs, between his legs.

With his other hand he caught Javert around the waist—cinched thinner than normal, and with an explosive crash like a thunderclap Valjean realized that, of course, it wouldn’t only be the coat and dress, the cosmetics and curls; it wouldn’t only be the necessary accessories of his bonnet and purse and parasol.

To give his disguise shape—to falsify curves and suggest a figure, then Javert must have surely—

“May I—?” Valjean asked, as he drew Javert against him, the cloth of Javert’s coat slick beneath Valjean’s palm, Javert’s eyelashes so very long and dark when Valjean had him pressed this close against his chest.

Parasol clattering to the ground, Javert tossed his handbag aside as he wound long arms and voluminous sleeves around Valjean’s neck and shoulders, as he ducked his head down to meet Valjean’s lips with his own, Valjean’s mouth opening automatically against the wet press of Javert’s tongue.

Javert moaned at the touch of Valjean’s tongue against his, gloved hands clutching at the back of Valjean’s neck. His bonnet was knocked askew as Valjean tilted his head and sought deeper, relearning the slick warmth of Javert’s mouth for the thousandth, ten thousandth time; this time with the flavor of the oil and wax and crushed berries reddening Javert’s lips, staining Valjean’s mouth, his beard. Valjean shuddered against the solid planes of Javert’s body that no amount of soft fabric could obscure, Valjean’s cock hardening fully in his trousers, insistent and throbbing where his hips rocked against Javert’s.

Valjean was aware, on some level, of moving their embrace away from the entryway and toward the shuttered windows beside the door. Of pivoting them both, sight unseen, in the direction of one of the tall, cushioned windowseats—provided for the comfort of the shop’s customers, perhaps, or simply decorative—with his mouth against Javert’s, still panting and open.

Valjean maneuvered Javert onto the seat, reluctantly pulling away from Javert’s lips to lower the other man onto the thick cushion, Javert’s hands nestled as gracefully within Valjean’s as any refined gentlewoman’s.

Javert’s eyes were dark, silver ringing the edges as he looked up at Valjean from beneath his tight curls, bonnet half-hanging from his throat by its ribbon while he panted heavily against the structured stitches and gussets of his coat and dress. Valjean reached down to carefully remove Javert’s frilled hat and set it aside on a nearby countertop, returning to stand in front of Javert in the dip between where the other man’s legs parted beneath the fabric of his skirt and petticoats.

Valjean’s hands hovered almost uncertainly along the edges and ruffles of fabric, his heartbeat loud in his ears and his erection pounding against his trousers; he licked his lips and tasted wax and Javert as he asked, “Would you mind—could I—”

“For Heaven’s sake, Valjean, you’ve already whisked me away to a locked building all to ourselves,” Javert said, rolling his eyes, although a smile still played about his lips. “I still don’t quite understand why this ridiculous costume has you so amorous, but does it seem like I’m objecting?”

Valjean chuckled, reaching forward, and was once again struck by the dichotomy: Javert’s prickly moods, his deep baritone; every well-known and beloved feature—veiled in lace and silk and calico—

Together, he and Javert helped to divest the other man of his carrick and Valjean of his frock coat, folding and placing both items neatly beside Javert’s discarded bonnet. The dress beneath Javert’s coat was truly a pretty little thing; a dusty, pale blue decorated with a pattern of roses and butterflies, high waisted and with puffed sleeves no less capacious than the outlying garment’s. Valjean could only just see Javert’s shoes, stitched with a floral pattern similar to the ones borne by his gloves and handbag, peeking beneath the hem of his ample skirts.

Appropriate in appearance and design though they might be, the shoes were far more outsized than anything Valjean had ever seen on Cosette’s dainty feet, and Valjean was smiling as he leaned forward to lick across Javert’s mouth again. He pressed his hands to Javert’s biceps and felt Javert sigh softly and open up beneath him, content to slow and lazy kisses even as Valjean’s back ached from the angle and Javert’s breathing grew shallow; Javert unused to sitting down in clothes that fitted so closely against his skin, unused to such attire when trying to suck Valjean’s tongue into his mouth at the same time.

Valjean cupped Javert’s jaw between his hands, brushing aside thick ringlets to allow his thumbs to sink into the familiar bristle of Javert’s whiskers, murmuring nonsense against Javert’s mouth, ignoring the persistent throb of his erection to get lost against the wet slide of Javert’s tongue instead.

It was Javert who pulled away first, his brown skin darkening with a flush Valjean did not think the rouge could entirely account for where it crawled down Javert’s cheeks, his throat. With hands that shook slightly—not with nerves, Valjean recognized, but a growing need to match Valjean’s own—Javert plucked at his gloves and tugged restlessly at the patterned fabric of his dress, voice frustrated as he admitted, “It was some production to get into this thing to begin with—the less said about the assistance required, the better. I’m not quite sure how—”

Valjean moved closer into the divot between Javert’s legs, hindered by Javert’s full skirts in a way that sent electric shivers down Valjean’s spine. He placed his own broad hands atop Javert’s, pressing gently as he murmured, “I have a few ideas, if you’ll permit me.”

He brushed his lips along Javert’s cheek, peppering kisses along Javert’s jaw, nibbling at the soft flesh of Javert’s earlobe until Javert was shifting beneath him on the seat, Javert angling his pelvis toward Valjean.

Javert thrust up into the air, rubbing against the heavy fall of cotton and linen and wool; Valjean could see the burgeoning outline of Javert’s arousal pushing against the layers of skirt and petticoats at his hips. Valjean’s own hips jerked forward reflexively, mesmerized by the obscene tent rising beneath the soft drape of materials. Javert met Valjean’s heavy-lidded gaze and gave Valjean a shaky, juddering nod, Valjean releasing a breathy sigh of relief and slid slowly down to his knees.

He knew he would regret the position tomorrow—no matter—and Valjean’s hands were already lifting the beribboned hem of Javert’s skirt, gathering the layers of Javert’s petticoats that gave any woman the full, round shape that was so popular. The shape was especially generous to Javert, masking slim hips and strong legs.

Valjean would have dearly loved to strip the dress off entirely, to see the underpinnings Javert must have worn; to trace the frilled edges of Javert’s corset where it would push and lift his pectorals, to grasp the cinched lines of Javert’s waist between his hands. But Valjean knew this was not the time nor the place to attempt to unfasten a woman’s dress for the first time, nor fumble his way through unlacing the petticoats besides. He would settle for the edge of the corset he could spy at Javert’s navel as Valjean fisted huge swathes of fabric and bunched them at Javert’s hips, rucking up Javert’s skirts over his legs and pressing them to Javert’s large hands, where the other man clamped down tight enough to wrinkle.

Javert’s eyes were blown black and his breathing shallow as he looked down at Valjean kneeling at his feet between the spread of his thighs, as Valjean sat back on his heels and looked, truly looked—at Javert, still mostly presentable above the waist, but not in his habitual shirtsleeves and waistcoat. Instead Javert’s chest was ruffled and laced in a bodice that gave the impression of curves; instead the lanky muscles of his arms were tucked away behind billowing sleeves. Instead of his customary, tidy queue, the hair beginning to stick to his cheeks with perspiration was elegantly curled and fashionably styled.

And past Javert’s waist—Javert was—Valjean thought the fact it was a dress, a woman’s undergarments, made it more licentious, somehow—Javert, with his skirt and petticoats held up past his hips, his legs splayed open and inviting. The hem of his chemise had been shoved back with his skirts, exposing his split drawers and his hardening cock jutting forward from between the soft linen.

Valjean leaned forward, his hands planted on top of the windowseat to either side of Javert’s hips, the shuttered window blinds rattling behind Javert as he was pushed back under Valjean’s weight. Javert widened the decidedly unladylike sprawl of his legs as Valjean settled between them and continued to look his fill at the other man, flushed and panting from Valjean’s mouth, already looking entirely debauched with his skirts clutched above his thighs, his curls loosening about his face, his darkened eyelashes fluttering against his cheekbones.

It took the two men some shuffling, the bookshop unfamiliar and the layers of fabric unknown to them, but soon Javert was reclining against the deep cushions, his hips pressed close to Valjean’s face while Valjean slid curious hands down Javert’s legs. Javert’s drawers ended in a splay of lace above the knee, with decorated straps connecting the bottom of his corset to the knit welts encircling the top of his thin white stockings. The stockings were not so different from what Javert would usually wear, hugging calves Valjean had long admired from Javert’s lifetime of patrols, and Valjean traced the smooth glide of fabric; Valjean’s callused fingertips snagging gently on the fine silk as he wrapped his palms around lean muscle, Valjean’s touch inquisitive as he stroked the embellished material of Javert’s garter strap.

Valjean hitched Javert’s skirts higher, Javert’s fingers clawing around the fabric as he held the cloth in place, thick and heavy where layers of wool and linen bunched and rolled together. Javert arched his spine, angling his pelvis as Valjean curved his hands over Javert’s knees to keep Javert’s spread legs in place, Valjean swaying forward to duck his head and drop his jaw, Valjean’s lips falling open to mouth along the heated length of Javert’s cock.

The foreskin had rolled back to expose the blunt, ruddy head; the slit was already damp with precome where Valjean tilted his head to press his lips to that tempting shine, salty-bitter fluid bursting on his tongue while Javert’s hips jerked upward with a loud rustle of fabric, the linen of his drawers scraping against Valjean’s cheeks and beard as Valjean buried his face at the apex of Javert’s thighs. Valjean’s lungs heaved as he inhaled the peculiar blend of Javert’s usual musk and the scent of salt, mingled with fragrant perfumes and oils Javert must have applied as part of his disguise.

Valjean’s hands slid from Javert’s knees to bracket the crinkled material of Javert’s drawers, digging his fingertips into cloth and the firm flesh of Javert’s thighs while Valjean mouthed open, wet kisses over the head of Javert’s cock, along the vein winding beneath the shaft, down until Valjean was nosing the thick patch of dark hair framing Javert’s erection. Valjean dragged his tongue over the stiff length without specific purpose or intent, wanting only to feel the spit-slicked, pulsing warmth of Javert’s cock beneath his lips.

Lifting one hand from where it dug into Javert’s leg, Valjean wrapped his fingers around the base of Javert’s cock, wringing the delicate skin with practiced twists of his wrist while his tongue darted out to lap between his fingers at the flashes of exposed skin. Dragging his mouth over that thick vein again, Valjean sucked and licked back up Javert’s length, pressing a kiss to the leaking tip. He luxuriated in the warm, blunt weight of velvet skin against his mouth as Javert cursed and whined above him—trying to spread his legs further, trying to get Valjean to take more of his cock in his mouth, trying to place his length against Valjean’s waiting mouth and push forward until he felt that intimate wet heat.

Javert hissed in frustration as the heavy trappings of the skirts and petticoats still held against his hips made it difficult to easily move into the position he wanted, and one of Javert’s hands released its hold on his skirts to scramble along the cushions, clawing its way along the edge of the windowseat. Long nails dug into dark wood as his head tipped back to expose the bare length of his throat above the lace of his pelerine, swallowing heavily where the collar of his dress wrapped gently against his neck. His curled hair fell tousled and wild around his shoulders as the thick ringlets slipped free of their pins and ties.

“Jean,” Javert pleaded, hips stuttering forward helplessly. “Jean, please, this is driving me to madness—”

But rather than take Javert fully into his mouth, Valjean pulled his lips and hand away to survey the results of his efforts, and his cock ached from the confines of his drawers as his gaze moved from the smeared rouge across Javert’s cheeks down to the heaving of his tailored bodice, the tight curve of his waist; his skirts yanked up over his spread legs and fisted desperately in one of Javert’s large, still-gloved hands. Javert’s cock twitched, hard and red and dripping, balls hanging full and heavy between the split of Javert’s drawers as Javert gasped again, “Jean, please.”

Not wanting to tease Javert unduly—no matter how strongly Valjean felt himself reacting to the sight of Javert with skirts hitched around his waist, begging for Valjean’s mouth on him—Valjean wrapped his fingers around the base of Javert’s shaft again and swiped his tongue over the head, licking at the frenulum. Valjean bowed his head and relaxed the muscles of his neck and shoulders as he followed Javert’s frantic rutting, as Javert tried to fuck Valjean’s mouth.

With one hand anchored at Javert’s knee right above the embroidery of Javert’s garter, the other hand curled around Javert’s stiff length, Valjean dropped his jaw and sunk his mouth down over the thrumming, pounding heat of Javert’s cock. Valjean’s tongue curved under the shaft as he lowered his head until he felt his lips touch his thick fingers, Javert wailing above Valjean’s head. Javert’s hand released the edge of the windowseat to curl over Valjean’s bent back, fingers grasping at Valjean’s waistcoat and shirtsleeves as Javert clutched the sleek fabric and tried to thrust forward, bucking against Valjean’s implacable grip.

“Jean, I can’t, I can’t—I need—I’m close, Jean, Jean, Jean—”

Valjean redoubled his efforts, Javert still gasping his name. Valjean felt the brush of his callused fingertips against his mouth on every downward stroke as he suckled around Javert’s length, his cheeks hollowing, relishing the velvet weight pressing down on his tongue. He lapped at the tip of Javert’s cock, tasting the hot, salty pulses of pre-ejaculate dribbling from the slit; tilting his head at odd angles to lick and suck and taste along the slick, curved flesh and to dart his tongue along the retracted foreskin. His fingers continued to stroke and squeeze around the base, drifting down to cup and knead Javert’s sac, feeling the skin tighten and throb beneath his palm. Valjean swallowed the bursts of salt and stripped the thick, pulsating length, groaning around the shaft bearing down along his tongue just to feel the muffled vibrations.

Loosening his hold on Javert’s knee, Valjean fumbled with the fastenings of his trousers and plunged inside to finally take himself in hand, his own cock weeping and flexing against his palm. Valjean worked himself in quick, wet jerks at the same time he bobbed his head over Javert’s length, panting wildly. Javert threw one arm—still wrapped in fine fabric—over his eyes as he rocked his hips forward, chasing the glide of Valjean’s tongue along his shaft until it bumped against the back of Valjean’s throat.

Valjean swallowed, the muscles of his neck tight and slick and gripping, constricting around the long, thick, throbbing length as he withdrew his hand from the base and sunk his head down, down, until Valjean felt his nose brushing wiry curls. Valjean swallowed again, just to feel each twitch and quiver of Javert’s cock in his throat, moaning around Javert’s length—and Javert was shouting, his hips arching, his grip on his skirts tightening and spasming before he dropped them completely as Javert’s release swept through him.

Javert’s mouth went round and wide and gasping, his breath a high whine and some garbled sound that might have been Valjean’s name, Javert’s lips shining with spit and the red tint of his cosmetics. His nails dug into the meat of Valjean’s shoulders as Valjean fucked up into the tight circle of his fist in time with Javert’s ragged thrusts into his mouth, breathing heavily through his nose while he drank down Javert’s release, sucking at each fresh spurt of seed while Javert urged, breathless and rasping, “Let go, Jean, come on, I want you to finish with me,” and Valjean’s moan was broken and aching around the spent cock dribbling its last burst of fluid onto Valjean’s tongue, down his chin, matting the bristly hairs of his jaw.

Valjean gasped, his beard soaked with saliva and Javert’s seed, drowning in the fabric heaped around Javert’s legs; hot where he pressed against layer upon layer of linen and organza and wool, sweat trickling down his hairline. Javert’s softened length slipped from Valjean’s mouth to lie dark and shining against the open split of Javert’s drawers, Javert’s hips still rocking in tiny, aborted movements, his entire body shuddering with the aftershocks of his orgasm, and that was enough—Valjean was groaning, his head bowed, his cock throbbing hot and thick as he spent over his hand, down his fingers.

His hips shook with each pulse of his spend, his balls tight and his nerves tingling and his heart racing. Valjean wrung his hand along his cock with each gush of seed until he was sore and sensitive and astonished by the force of his release as thick, sticky stripes painted the wood of the windowseat and dripped onto the floor.

Absentmindedly wiping the fluid from his hand against the stained floor, Valjean patted at Javert’s bent leg, curling his hand loosely around Javert’s stockinged calf. Valjean tipped sideways to kneel with his head pressed gently against Javert’s knee, remaining there between the spread of Javert’s legs for several long minutes as they both caught their breath—allowing jangled nerves to calm, and tense muscles to relax, and heated blood to cool once more.

From above him, Javert was pawing at his skirts, shoving away heaps of crumpled material with an irritated huff as he tried to sit more comfortably, now that they were both spent and tacky with all manner of fluids.

“Ridiculous,” Javert grouched, although Valjean couldn’t tell if the comment was directed at Javert’s rumbled disguise, or their somewhat rash coupling. Valjean was still feeling perfectly lax and comfortable propped against Javert’s leg, for all that his knees were screaming their protest from their extended meeting with the wooden floorboards.

But Javert suddenly seized his skirts in hand, eyes wide as he breathed, “Good Lord.”

“What?” Valjean asked as he glanced up, startled by Javert’s shift in mood. “What’s wrong?”

“This—” Javert gestured at his creased, sweat-stained finery. “How am I to return to the stationhouse? How am I to walk home? My uniform—I can’t change clothes at work, not looking like this. And!” Javert’s thick brows drew together as an additional concern broke through the final remnants of what had been a perfectly pleasant haze following his completion, everything he had not considered before crashing down on him now that Valjean was no longer looking at Javert like he wanted to partake in illicit activities in the middle of the street.

“I’m expected to wear this for a few more days,” Javert pointed out, “we haven’t caught our men yet. But I can hardly ask the housekeeper to launder it when it’s—it’s—”

“Ah,” Valjean said. “Well.”

He frowned, looking Javert up and down in consideration; momentarily distracted by the picture Javert yet made, flushed and sweaty and exposed, his hair in a disarray, his makeup streaked, his legs still in a languid part. Valjean’s spent cock gave an interested twitch that he firmly ignored.

“If you can remain in the shop for a little while longer,” Valjean offered, pulling himself up from his repose between Javert’s legs to clamber back to his feet, forcing his creaking knees to bear his weight. “I could go home to retrieve some fresh clothes for you, and bring them back here.”

The taut line of Javert’s shoulders loosened a fraction, and he pulled himself fully upright; closing his legs and allowing the folds of his skirts to fall back to the floor. Valjean tried not to mourn the loss of the view.

“As I said before, the shop will remain closed all week long, and there is no reason for anyone else to come in—not even other members of the force.” Javert gave Valjean a small smile, hands still tugging at his hopelessly wrinkled dress. He yet wore his embroidered gloves, and Valjean’s eyes tracked their movement before returning to meet Javert’s gaze as Javert added, “If you would be willing to go to the trouble—I would very much appreciate your assistance in procuring a change of my own clothing.”

“No trouble at all, my dear,” Valjean said. “It’s hardly a long walk, and I could probably use to stretch my legs, after…” He paused, his cheeks reddening, and busied himself with sliding his frock coat back over his waistcoat and shirtsleeves, removing and retying his cravat and smoothing his hands down his front. Valjean shot a glance at Javert—who was still attempting, with less success than Valjean, to straighten his dress and look a little less like a public woman after a particularly busy night.

“You know, this hadn’t actually been especially uncomfortable, before,” Javert said, fidgeting with what Valjean assumed was his corset through the layers of his dress and petticoat and chemise. “If I could just—damn.”

He dropped his hands to his lap, looking cross. “I’d best just wait to be back in my own clothes.”

“I’ll be quick about it,” Valjean promised, bending to buss a kiss against Javert’s cheek, feeling the familiar scratch of whiskers against his face. He straightened, and thought momentarily about taking his leave, but—well. Valjean caught Javert’s hands in his own, squeezing gently, urging the other man to look up at him.

“Javert? I believe I may also have a solution so you needn’t worry about the state of your garments at the stationhouse, or with the housekeeper.”

Javert nodded. “I am open to suggestions.”

“I will pay for the dress I hopelessly stained when my carriage splashed the unfortunate lady standing on the street corner,” Valjean said, a smile teasing the corners of his mouth. “It is a shame it couldn’t be salvaged.”

One of Javert’s eyebrows crept up across his forehead. “So the dress is a complete lost cause, is that it?”

“Unfortunately,” Valjean’s smile broadened, lacing his fingers with Javert’s, marveling at the silky glide of ivory fabric against his skin. “Although, it might still be wearable in the privacy of one’s home…”

“Might it indeed?”

Valjean glanced down and up again quickly, tugging Javert’s hands to lay against his chest, feeling oddly vulnerable to voice what even now felt like a very strange desire, one he would struggle to explain if Javert pressed him on the subject. “If anyone were to be interested in wearing the dress, and—everything else again, of course.”

Javert was studying him with the intent, searching gaze of the Inspector again; a look Valjean had once so feared, an expression that knew, even when no one else would believe him, that there was yet more to Jean Valjean than what first appeared.

It had been some years since Valjean felt frightened by the piercing, probing weight of Javert’s stare, and even now he felt only a twinge of embarrassment to be obliquely admitting to a desire Valjean himself had not realized he possessed.

But then, he and Javert had always been learning as much about themselves as one another in the days since he had pulled Javert from the river. And while it was typically Javert who cautiously, tentatively introduced his particular interests into their bedchambers, Valjean did not think Javert would be offended by Valjean’s suggestion—merely, perhaps, reluctant to put on such an ensemble again.

But Javert’s piercing stare relented as he blinked slowly, thoughtfully. He curled his fingers into the front of Valjean’s waistcoat and pulling the other man forward, one arm reaching up to haul Valjean back down for a rough, inelegant press of mouth against mouth, his kiss firm and demanding and all the more comforting for it. Valjean felt himself melt against the other man, his hands steady on Javert’s arms, Javert’s lips warm and yielding and still tasting faintly of crushed berries.

“You have certainly borne even my most ridiculous demands in our lovemaking,” Javert breathed in the space between one kiss and the next. “And neither have I the desire to deny you anything.”

“Surely not anything,” Valjean licked along Javert’s mouth, nibbling at Javert’s lower lip. He thought vaguely of still needing to run his errand and retrieve Javert’s usual shirtsleeves and trousers, but it felt a very distant concern with Javert’s mouth open and pliant under his again. Valjean did not believe it was possible to ever tire of kissing Javert.

“You must know by now there is little I would not do for you,” Javert murmured with naked honesty, even as he closed his mouth around Valjean’s again, the unfamiliar brush of ringlets still strange and tantalizing against Valjean’s cheek.

Valjean’s chest constricted painfully; Javert would say he struggled to be the partner he thought Valjean deserved, but Valjean had never had cause to want for anything or anyone else. He slid his arms to wrap around Javert, one knee supported by the cushions of the windowseat as he leaned over and deepened their embrace; his spine and his knees would be protesting all the next day for putting himself in such ridiculous positions at his age, but he truthfully could not bring himself to care at all.

Pulling his mouth away with a soft, wet sound and obvious reluctance some moments later, Javert looked at where the brocade of his bodice pressed against Valjean’s chest. “And this is no particular hardship.”

“As long as you’re amenable,” Valjean said, still hesitant; still worried that he might force his fledgling interest onto Javert beyond what the other man would be comfortable with. Javert extricated a hand from the clasp of their arms to wave it dismissively.

“I am fine, but you might have to buy more dresses, if this is the state you leave them in,” he pointed out, and Valjean’s pulse quickened at the thought of Javert in yet more fine clothing—in something Valjean himself selected—and Javert’s eyes glinted knowingly, his lips curling upward in satisfaction. Valjean shivered, his skin prickling, his spent length thinking vainly of the vigor of youth.

He pressed his forehead to Javert’s and took a deep, edifying breath, pushing away visions of velvet and silk for the time being before disentangling himself from Javert and straightening his waistcoat, which was looking rather worse for the wear itself by this point.

“I suppose it will suffice,” Valjean mused, giving his clothing another rueful tug. He and Javert did not usually make love in places where their respective states of dishevelment were such a concern afterward. “I’ll return shortly, my dear.”

“I will do what I can to clean up anything particularly damning,” Javert said dryly, and neither of them looked at the stained wood of the windowseat or floor.

Valjean stepped away to move toward the door, but Javert called after him—his expression placid, giving nothing away; but his eyes glittered in the fading light of the late afternoon sun where it slanted through the shutters, and his voice was knowing, even sly as he said, “When you return, I will likely require assistance—to help remove my corset.”