Title: Rainy Mornings
Work ID: 39037425
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fisting, 24/7 D/s Relationship, Blow Jobs
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

The day had dawned gray and rainy. Valjean had woken to the sound of raindrops drumming against the window. Javert was still asleep, and Valjean shifted closer against his body, content to inhale his scent and allow the sound of Javert’s breathing to lull him back to sleep. It was a Saturday, and there was no need for Javert to rise with the dawn—especially when Javert had only returned late last night from a trip that had kept him away from Paris for three days.

When Valjean woke again, it was about two hours later. It was no longer raining, but by the sparse light that fell inside, it was apparent that the day would stay gloomy and cloudy.

Still, Valjean had slept well and he was warm, and for a moment, he remained still, content to enjoy the warmth of Javert’s body and the thought of the day that was to come.

Finally, he sat up and gently pushed the blanket down, revealing Javert’s body.

Javert was still soft, although he quickly began to stir when Valjean breathed warm air against him, using lips and tongue to guide Javert to full hardness.

During the week, Valjean was well-aware that his duty was to let Javert wake to pleasure, using his mouth and his throat to efficiently guide Javert to orgasm moments after he woke. But today, Javert wouldn’t have to leave for the Prefecture after a quick breakfast. Today, Valjean had time to indulge himself—and to indulge Javert.

Unhurriedly, Valjean took Javert’s cock into his mouth, sucking him leisurely until he was hard and dripping with Valjean’s saliva when he drew back. Then Valjean moved on to nuzzle against Javert’s balls, kissing them and teasing them with his tongue until Javert made a sleepy sound.

Valjean smiled and returned to Javert’s cock, licking around the swollen head until he could taste the first drops of Javert’s pleasure before he moved onward, his mouth slowly trailing upward, lapping the first beads of sweat from Javert’s tensing stomach until he reached a nipple.

Javert had finally woken. A hand trailed through Valjean’s hair as Javert made another sleepy sound, but Valjean didn’t let it deter him as he licked the small, hard nipple until Javert shivered and the fingers in his hair tightened.

“Someone’s in a good mood today,” Javert murmured.

Valjean smiled and leaned over Javert and a moment later, he found himself leisurely kissed, a hand in his hair gently holding him in place.

“Do you want me to finish?” he asked when Javert released him. “Or do you have other plans today?”

Even without the morning sun illuminating him, it was hard to look away from Javert. Valjean knew him better than any other person in this world, but even so it was a thrill to see his eyes glazed with pleasure, his lips swollen from kisses, his skin damp with perspiration. Many mornings, Javert was content to lie in bed and let Valjean pleasure him. It was a good way to begin the day. It was good to know that as long as Valjean was alive, Javert would always wake to pleasure.

Yet some days—especially mornings like these, when Javert did not have to leave for the Rue de Jérusalem—Javert preferred to make this morning ritual last and to enjoy Valjean in other ways, and Valjean was not averse to that either.

Today, it appeared, was one of those days.

Slowly, Javert sat up and stretched, unashamed of his hard cock that was now jutting upward, gleaming with Valjean’s saliva. Then he turned around and buried his fingers in Valjean’s hair to tug him close for another kiss.

“I do have other plans,” he said and smiled, his eyes warm and hungry and pleased as he looked at Valjean, so that Valjean’s stomach tightened instinctively.

“Lie back down.”

Obediently, Valjean stretched out on the bed once more, listening to the sounds Javert made as he rose to add wood to the stove. Rain was still drumming against the window, but soon the room was filled with warmth, the fire crackling merrily.

The sheets Valjean was resting on were still warm, and he buried his face in Javert’s pillow, breathing in his scent as he waited patiently.

He was hard himself—had been since he’d woken in Javert’s embrace. Now arousal thrummed through him, a pleasant excitement building as he abandoned himself to Javert’s plans. Even if Javert was in the mood to make him suffer today, Valjean knew the pleasure that could be found in struggling and bearing everything Javert asked him to bear.

Still, he also knew Javert well enough to realize that this wasn’t a day for the riding crop. Javert had woken hard as iron, and instead of choosing to find a quick release in Valjean’s mouth, he had decided to draw it out—not just Valjean’s arousal, but his own.

It was comforting to think that the same rhythm of arousal pulsed through them both, heating them in the same way, and it would continue to torment them both for as long as Javert pleased.

Valjean relaxed against the mattress, shifting sightly so that he ended up in the spot warmed by Javert’s body, surrounded by his scent. Usually, golden morning sunlight would fall in on him by this time—but the sound of rain was comforting too, especially when it was paired with the heat of the stove and the knowledge that Javert was in the mood to spend the morning with him.

Behind him, he could hear Javert laugh, then felt the bed dip as Javert sat down by his side.

“You’re in a lazy mood today,” he said, then gave Valjean’s buttocks a light slap. “Fortunately I’m in the mood for something that won’t require much from you.”

He kneaded Valjean’s backside, and Valjean let his thighs spread to give him access. For a moment, Javert was quiet. Then he leaned over him, his beard rasping against Valjean’s neck as his thumb ran down the crease between Valjean’s buttocks.

“All mine,” he murmured, his thumb teasing against Valjean’s hole as his lips brushed against Valjean’s ear. “And don’t you forget it.”

“Never, sir,” Valjean gasped, then sighed when Javert’s thumb pressed inside.

He relaxed, the pressure of the slight penetration pleasant, especially when he knew what was to come.

Javert’s lips curved into a satisfied smile against his ear.

“I believe I once told you that you’ll never be as tight again as when you returned to me. Shall I see whether you were good while I was gone?”

Valjean shivered instinctively but spread his legs wider, his cock throbbing painfully at Javert’s words, squeezed between his stomach and the mattress.

He’d missed Javert. He hadn’t thought it would affect him so much, when he had lived alone for so many years after the prison hulks—but Javert had stripped away his clothes and his defenses, and it seemed that somehow, Valjean had become used to the warmth of Javert next to him.

He’d made use of the phallus Javert had once gifted him for that purpose. It hadn’t been as good as it had been when Javert touched him, but it had been pleasant enough—so pleasant, in fact, that he’d found himself flushing with sudden shame when he was done, a puddle of come cooling on his stomach and the bed feeling damp and cold when he’d let the oiled phallus slide out of him again.

He’d thought of Javert when he’d touched himself, and his thoughts had taken him on sudden journeys that had embarrassed him—ropes binding him, his body bare and exposed, held in place, spread open and available for Javert—but once he’d found release, he’d been alone, and in the silence of their bedchamber, his fantasies had left him uncertain and ashamed.

Still, there’d been the thought that wherever Javert was, he’d also lie awake in his bed, imagining Valjean using the phallus he had given him while touching himself, as slow and deliberate as in all things. And that thought alone had been enough to let Valjean find sleep with a smile on his face.

Javert made a soft, satisfied sound against Valjean’s ear, slowly teasing the rim of his hole while Valjean shuddered beneath him, aching for more.

“Hold still,” Javert said. “I haven’t even started.”

Javert turned away from him again while Valjean waited, breathing into the pillow that smelled of Javert. A moment later, Javert’s touch returned, his fingers slick with oil this time so that two fingers slid inside him easily as Valjean moaned.

“That’s more like it,” Javert said, sounding satisfied as he leisurely pressed in and out of him while Valjean shivered at the sensation.

Javert leaned over Valjean again, his fingers staying in place inside him to exert pressure until Valjean had to gasp for breath as everything inside him tightened.

“Good?” Javert asked.

Valjean didn’t have to see his face to know the smug little smile he knew so well was tugging on Javert’s lips.

Once, Valjean had hated that smile. Once, Javert had smiled at him just like that when he had circled him and Valjean had hung in chains before him in the prison hulks.

Now, he didn’t mind Javert’s smugness. These days, Javert had every right to feel smug, because he knew just where to touch Valjean to make him feel as if electricity was running up his spine, his balls aching and tight and his entire body shivering, the pleasure so intense that he could barely form words.

Javert exhaled against his ear. “I’ll take that as a yes.”

Valjean dug his fingers into the sheets, closing his eyes to better concentrate on the sensation of Javert’s warm skin against his own and his fingers deep inside him, sliding in and out of him easily with the help of the oil.

After a moment, Javert added more fingers. Valjean’s body opened up for them easily, and Javert exhaled against his ear again, his other hand curving possessively around a buttock.

“Very good,” he said again. He sounded breathless as well. “Looks like you remembered.”

Valjean moaned when Javert pressed a kiss against his shoulder blade, his fingers staying inside him even as Javert moved back to kneel by his legs. They wiggled inside him a little until Valjean had to pant for breath, his hips rising involuntarily to search out more of Javert’s touch.

“That’s how I like you.”

Javert’s free hand slid over his sweaty back, soothing, admiring, possessive, and Valjean felt a thrill run through him at the simple gesture.

Then there was the sensation of another measure of oil being poured, slowly dripping down the crease between his buttocks, and Valjean thought he knew then what Javert wanted.

Slowly, Javert kept pushing in and out until Valjean was trembling—and then, at last, he added a fifth finger.

Valjean’s hips rose a little again, and even though he tried to focus on staying relaxed for Javert, the sensation of Javert sinking into him little by little was enough to drive all thought from him. All he could do was experience—the stretch, the discomfort of the widest part of Javert’s hand pushing demandingly against his hole, the moment when it seemed impossible that it would ever fit—and then the burst of exhilaration and relief and sheer nerve-searing sensation when Javert’s hand slipped inside, Valjean’s hole trembling around Javert’s narrow wrist as his hand sank deep inside his body.

If Javert was saying something, Valjean couldn’t hear it. All he was aware of at that moment was the pounding of his heart, the roar of his pulse in his own ears, and the sensation of Javert moving inside him, his fingers stretching and playing within him. Valjean could barely breathe at the surge of sensation, but Javert had scarcely begun exploring him.

Little by little, with small thrusts eased by the generous amount of oil, Javert worked him open, his hand sliding in deeper while Valjean tried to helplessly stifle his moans into the pillow.

Javert’s apartment was situated over the stable, which was how he had been able to afford an apartment on the first floor. Most importantly, it meant that Valjean did not have to fear that Javert’s neighbors might hear him—but even so, he tried to keep quiet, although that was quickly becoming impossible.

As he panted for breath, Javert gently twisted his hand inside him until his knuckles scraped over the spot where pressure made Valjean arch. It felt like lightning surging through him, running all the way up his spine and down into his balls.

Dimly, he was aware of Javert’s other hand curving around his body, pressing flat against his stomach as if Javert wanted to feel himself moving inside Valjean. Then Javert slid deeper again, his fingertips teasing against Valjean’s insides until Valjean felt tears burning in his eyes at the sensation. His lips parted. He wanted to speak, but he couldn’t. All that escaped him was another moan as he trembled, Javert gently pushing in and out of him while Valjean’s stretched hole clung to the hard length of his arm.

How often had Valjean struggled with Javert? He knew the lean muscle that was hidden behind Javert’s deceptively elegant build. And now, that strong, sinewy arm was working its way inside him, his hole stretched open wide and vulnerable as Javert slid even deeper.

Time lost all meaning. Valjean couldn’t have said whether it lasted minutes or hours—all he knew was the movement of Javert inside him as he trembled on the bed, moaning incessantly into the sheets until he seemed to exist as nothing but sensation, a deep, pulsing pleasure that overwhelmed all of his senses and went on and on. Even his climax, when it came, felt like little more than an afterthought, wetness spreading beneath his stomach while his body still shuddered with overwhelmed pleasure at Javert’s slow, insistent exploration.

When Javert slipped out of him at last, his body was stretched open once more, Javert patiently stroking his hip while he worked his slick hand out of him—and when he slipped free, Valjean felt tears rise to his eyes, inexplicable, feeling hollow and empty and cold.

Then Javert made him turn around and leaned over him, moving to straddle his thighs.

At the contact of hot skin against skin, Valjean gasped again and arched against Javert, desperately pulling him into a kiss. Against his stomach he could feel Javert, swollen and hot. Javert kissed him as if he had all the time in the world, his tongue sliding against Valjean’s until Valjean found himself gasping again, the earlier moment of coldness dispelled by Javert’s touch.

“Look at you,” Javert breathed when he at last pulled back, his own lips swollen and his eyes dazed and heavy-lidded. “All mine.”

Instead of an answer, Valjean arched up again for another kiss, but this time Javert pushed him back down with a breathless laugh.

“Hold still,” he said, eyes gleaming. “I want to look at you. What a mess you are.”

His voice was thick with satisfaction at the knowledge that it was he who had reduced Valjean to such a state.

With a pleased moan, Javert wrapped his fingers around his own cock, then moved a little further up until he could rub himself against Valjean’s chest, slickened with sweat and Valjean’s release.

“Look at you,” he said again, his voice half a groan as he thrust slowly against Valjean’s chest. He held himself with one hand; with the other, he touched Valjean, squeezing the hard muscles of his chest, his thumb flicking repeatedly against a nipple until Valjean shivered beneath him.

Valjean couldn’t look away from the sight of Javert atop him. Javert was glorious in his passion, eyes heavy-lidded and unguarded, the sternness of his features softened by the abandon with which he worked for his own pleasure. His skin glowed with sweat, the muscles of his lean thighs tensing as he worked towards his release so that Valjean couldn’t help but reach out for him, brushing Javert’s cheek with his fingertips as he gazed at him, wishing to remember this view forever.

Then Javert groaned, his eyes falling shut and his release spattering over Valjean’s chest. A few droplets hit his face, but Valjean didn’t mind that either. They both knew he was Javert’s in all ways, and there was a thrill in feeling Javert mark him, whether that was with welts left by a riding crop or the more ephemeral marks of Javert’s release on his skin.

With a pleased moan, Javert collapsed next to him, then reached out an arm to wrap it possessively around his chest with a sigh. Valjean let himself willingly be turned, aglow with warmth now as he gazed at Javert, whose satisfaction and happiness were no longer as rare a sight as they once had been.

After a moment, Javert’s mouth curved into another smile. He leaned forward, licking at a trail of his come on Valjean’s cheek before sliding his tongue into Valjean’s mouth again.

“Satisfied, sir?” Valjean murmured when they finally parted, his own arm resting contentedly around Javert’s shoulder.

Another smile tugged on Javert’s lips. “I think you’ve proved that I can leave you alone without trouble now.”

Valjean smiled back, content to rest in Javert’s arms. Rain was still incessantly drumming against the windows, the fire in the stove crackling and spreading its warmth through the room. Even better was Javert’s body relaxed against his own, the knowledge that he was still all his, and the awareness of the entire day still at their disposal.

Javert’s fingers traced lazily over his shoulder, his breathing slowing.

“I had thought to take you on a ride through the Bois de Boulogne,” Javert said at last, “but that’s not going to happen in this weather.”

Valjean pressed his face against Javert’s throat, breathing in his scent and his warmth and the familiar strength of his limbs. He was a mess—but Javert seemed just as content to ignore it for a moment, allowing Valjean to burrow close, the weight of his arm holding Valjean in place, anchoring his body that still seemed strangely weightless.

“Anything you want, sir,” he said softly, meaning it.

Javert was silent for a while, although his head shifted slightly, his beard rasping against Valjean’s cheek, his hand smoothing over Valjean’s shoulder.

“I think what I want is a bath,” Javert murmured against his skin. “Hot water, for both of us. And perhaps later, I’ll take you out for food. I feel a sudden need for something sweet. How does that sound?”

“It sounds good,” Valjean said.

He raised himself slowly, just enough to be able to look down at Javert, warmth rushing through him once more at the way Javert looked at him—pleased and sated and utterly relaxed even at the sight of Valjean looming above him.

Valjean felt a sudden, helpless swell of tenderness as he gazed at Javert. He leaned down to kiss him again, moaning as he slid his tongue deep into Javert’s mouth, hungry for him in a way that left him faint even after what he’d already been through, and Javert’s hand slipped into his hair once more to hold him in place.

He could still hear the sound of the rain, and outside in the courtyard the clatter of carriages arriving and leaving, but he paid them no mind. Their fire was burning and their bed was soft and warm. More importantly, Javert had returned home at last, and the jittery uncertainty Valjean had felt during the past few days had dissolved into boneless contentment.

Let it rain all weekend. Valjean already had everything he could possibly desire.