Title: Shorts
Work ID: 6944746
Author: Sir_Bedevere
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: AU, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Post-Seine, Fluff, Angst, Canon
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 19/19

The first time Cosette almost made him cry was at the school gate, unfortunately. He had, miraculously, got off work early that day and, finding Jean up to his elbows in dirt in the garden, had offered to pick Cosette up from a school. He was on the list, after all; he may as well make use of it once or twice. The gate was full of women, chattering mothers and grandmothers, with the odd father here and there. Javert suspected it was only his uniform, which he hadn’t yet changed, which was keeping him safe from being ejected from this group.

When the children began to come out, herded by teachers and learning assistants, Javert ignored the little voice calling for their daddy and looked for Cosette in the crowd. It was only when something small and solid hit him in the stomach that he realised he had missed her.

“Daddy! Daddy, you’re at school!”


Daddy.


She had never called him that before, and he had never expected it. Jean was Papa but he had always been just Javert, or Uncle Javert when she wanted something.


Daddy.


When he scooped her up and pressed a kiss to the top of her head, he took the moment to wipe his tears away too. It would never do for this crowd of magpies to see him weeping. He’d never recover from that.

The night Jean went out of town, Cosette had a nightmare.

Jean hadn’t wanted to go, searched for every excuse he could come up with to get out of the trip, and came up with nothing that Javert was going to believe.

“I’ve never left her,” he confessed eventually, when Javert withheld his kisses until the other man told the truth, “The whole of our lives together, I have never spent a night away.”

Then, impossibly, Jean blushed more.

“And you. I have not slept alone since – since that night.”

Javert felt his heart threaten to burst at Jean’s words and forced himself to calm, “You slept many nights without me before. And she is strong and brave and she will survive, as will you. Besides, I am here. She will not suffer your absence too much.”

Jean’s answering kiss almost knocked him over, so he knew that he had said the right thing.

And Javert was good as his word. He left work early to be there to pick Cosette up from school, and they caught an afternoon showing of some film she had been talking about. They picked up pizza on the way home and, after she had done her homework, they sat side by side and watched cartoons before she took herself off to bed. It had been a simple evening, enjoyable even, Javert reflected as he took a beer from the fridge. Cosette was a good kid. If all of them were like her – if all of them had been raised by Jean – he might be inclined to like more of them.

The first he knew of the nightmare, well past midnight when he finally dragged himself into a bed that felt cold and unwelcoming for the first time since he had spent that first night in it, was the click of the door and the soft shuffle of feet on the carpet.

“Daddy?”

Cosette.

He turned and clicked on the lamp, grateful he had opted for pyjamas that night. She stood blinking in the light and he noted the shine of tears before he saw anything else.

“What happened?”

She clutched Catherine to her chest and dissolved into tears before she could make herself speak. Javert froze; Jean dealt with tears and cuddles and soothing. Javert had no talent for that sort of thing and he knew he had failed the first test when Cosette turned and ran from the room.

“Cosette! Come back, please!”

She did not return, so he clambered from bed and followed her into her room, two doors down and across the landing. She was face down on her bed, trembling, and before he could fight the voice of doubt in his head, Javert had scooped her up. Far from fighting, which he had secretly worried would happen, Cosette wrapped her arms around his neck and buried her face in his shoulder. Like this, in his arms, he was reminded of who young she still was, how painfully small.

“What happened?”

“I – Madame was there and she screamed at me and I ran,” Cosette stopped to catch her breath, “But Papa didn’t come like before and I couldn’t find him and I couldn’t find you and I was so scared.”

With that, the tears returned and he felt them soaking into his shirt as he made soothing noises and walked them back to his bedroom. He did not deal well with tears but he knew what Jean would do and that was almost good enough.

“Come and sleep with me,” he said, putting Cosette down and holding the duvet back whilst she nestled in the space between his pillow and Jean’s.

“You can use his pillow,” Javert said gruffly, slipping in beside her and turning off the lamp, “It smells of him.”

After no small amount of fidgeting, and little elbows in his ribs, Cosette had moulded herself to him and had, thankfully, stopped crying. Javert tried to care about this invasion of his space, but he found he did not mind.

“You are safe here,” he murmured, kissing the top of her head, “And you always will be, with Papa and me.”

“I know,” she yawned, nuzzling his shoulder, “Night, night Daddy. I love you.”

“Night night, little one,” Javert swallowed, “Sleep well. I’ll be here.”

Cosette, from the moment she learned to read and write, kept a list of her very dearest wishes. Top of that list, besides marrying a prince and having a real castle, was to find Papa someone who would love him just as much as Cosette believed he should be loved.

She forgot about her list until she moved her old things to Marius’ house, and she found the leaf in an old journal. Well, she had her prince and her castle. It was a shame about Papa.

One year later, she cried as she ticked that one off too, watching Papa and dear Javert share a book beside the fire in the library. It was not what she had imagined when she was a little thing and wrote her list, but she was not one to turn a precious thing away.

A new baby? In the early hours of the morning, Javert isn't sure he remembers why he signed up...

Did I write more shamefully fluffy modern AU? Well, yeah. But it's only a teeny tiny chapter and maybe it won't ruin my rep too much ;)

The baby screamed, for what could have been hours or what could have been days; Javert was not sure that he could reliably distinguish time anymore. The whole world had narrowed until all there was in it was his desk and people crying, for both Jean and Cosette had been without sleep for days. It was the sound of Jean weeping, cradling the baby, that had dragged Javert from his bed at three in the morning, despite the fact he had only very recently got into it and would need to be leaving it fairly early as well. Jean was hunched in the rocking chair in the nursery, tears running down his face.

“Javert – God, I’m sorry. Did he wake you?”

“The boy could wake the dead, Jean. He has already done so for his sister. She is crying next door.”

“I don’t know – I never had Cosette when she was this young. I don’t know what to do.”

“You will give him to me, and you will get some sleep,” Javert said firmly, plucking the baby away before Jean could argue, dropping a kiss to his tear stained cheek.

“The young man and I are going for a drive. I will see you when I return.”

And that was how he found himself now, driving the streets of Paris at nearly four am, trying to tune out Gavroche’s cries. He had stopped screaming, a most blessed event, but now he just cried and Javert knew Jean would take that even less well than the screams. He tried talking to the baby, reciting laws and codes until his throat hurt, and it did not work. The boy was stubborn, that much was clear. Just like his new sister, obviously. At the thought of Cosette, Javert began to sing her favourite song, the one she always begged him to sing to her.

“In Penny Lane there is a barbershop, showing photographs of every head he’s had the pleasure to have known…”

He had almost finished as much of the song as he could remember when he realised Gavroche had stopped crying, but as soon as he stopped, the boy began to whimper.


Shit, shit, another song.


“Starry starry night, paint your palettes blue and grey…”

Three more songs and the boy was sound asleep in his carrier. With rush of pride, Javert cruised home and had the baby settled back in his nursery as soon as he could manage it.

He found Jean and Cosette in his bed, sleeping peacefully. Cosette was clutching Catherine and Jean had wrapped himself around her, so Javert slipped in behind him and gathered the pair of them into his arms. He was busy pressing a kiss to Jean’s ear when he stirred and turned his head so Javert could kiss his mouth instead.

“It’s quiet.”

“It is.”

“You didn’t take him and leave him on a doorstep somewhere, did you?”

“Of course not,” Javert huffed, his sleepless hours catching him up already, eyes half closed, “In the morning you will find him bound and gagged in the nursery.”

“Thank you, my love. Thank you.”

Javert takes the kids on a drive

“Where are we going, Daddy?”

Javert glanced in his rear view mirror to find Cosette peering at him intently. She was bundled up in her winter coat, with a hat pulled down low over her ears and a scarf wrapped so snugly around her face that all he could really see was a pair of almost-suspicious eyes. 

“To see the stars.”

“We can see the stars at home,” she mumbled, but then, thankfully, went quiet. Javert cast half an eye over Gavroche, similarly wrapped up but asleep in his car seat. When he had suggested this little trip out to the observatory, unsure of how Jean would react to the children being up so late, he had been almost knocked over by the man’s enthusiasm. A nasty headache had forced him to stay home this evening but he had insisted they still come; it wasn’t every day you got a good view of Mars, after all. 

The car park wasn’t full, thankfully, but Javert had forgotten quite how steep the climb up the hill to the observatory was. He eyed it with a sigh but Cosette was out of the car by then, and looking at him expectantly. He unbuckled Gavroche and lifted him out, hoisting the sleeping boy over his shoulder.

“Daddy, what is it?”

“It’s called an observatory. It used to be my favourite place, when I was a kid.”

“Really?”

“Really. Can you make it up the hill?”

“Yeah.”

She grabbed his hand and struck out, determined to prove herself. True to her word, she made it almost all the way up without stopping and he had to admit he was impressed; Cosette was such a little thing but she never let that stop her. If anything, he was more breathless than she. When he stopped to catch his breath, he shifted Gavroche to his other shoulder and found that the boy was awake, nestled against him but watching carefully. 

“Daddy. Wher’ Papa?”

“Papa’s at home,” Javert murmured, “You’re here with me.”

“’K.”

The telescope was as impressive as he remembered and they did not have to wait for long in the small queue. A young woman, brimming with enthusiasm at this ungodly hour in the evening, explained how it all worked to Cosette and helped her look for the planet. Cosette’s squeal when she found it was worth the drive. Javert held Gavroche up so he could see too and although he wasn’t sure the toddler would know what he was doing, he did at least seem to be looking. Then the woman offered to hold Gavroche so Javert could take a look too. He’d never seen Mars like this – it didn’t come round that often – and it was impressive, burning red like nothing he had ever seen. No wonder the Romans had named their war god for it.

He thanked the woman, who had been entirely charmed by Gavroche in a few minutes and led Cosette out of the building, back towards the car. They walked slowly down the hill and he held her hand, so she could look up at the stars. 

“Daddy,” she said, as he strapped Gavroche back in to his seat, “I like the observatory.”

“Good.”

“But I like it better in the garden when you tell me about the drawings in the sky.”

“The constellations.”

“Yeah, them.”

He wasn’t expecting the small arms that wrapped around his stomach, but he was becoming more used to it as time went by. He bent down and picked her up, pressing a kiss to her forehead.

“Shall we go home to sleep? Papa’s probably waiting up.”

“Even though you told him not to?”

“Even though I told him not to.”

Their first time was...memorable

This chapter kind of skirts close to an M rating, maybe, although I personally wouldn't be offended if I saw it in a T rated fic...


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


He wasn’t sure how he had ended up here, pinned against the wall at the bottom of Jean Valjean’s stairs, but Javert didn’t feel much like analysing it.

What he did feel was Jean’s mouth, pressed to his neck, hot and warm and oh god, sucking on his pulse. Javert moaned, low in his throat, and his hands scrabbled at Jean’s back, holding onto his shirt desperately.

“Jean,” he mumbled, “Let’s –”

“Upstairs,” Jean gasped, breaking away and tugging at Javert’s hand. Javert did not know how he made it up the stairs but then he was in Jean’s bedroom and it didn’t matter.

“Javert, are you alright?”

Jean was resting a hand on his shoulder, and Javert was relieved to see that Jean seemed as nervous as he.

“I just – let’s slow it down, yeah? I want to make this last.”

He felt himself blush as he spoke. What right did he have to demand anything of this man? Jean had allowed him into his life, into his little family of two and now into his bedroom, and Javert was daring to make demands? 

Jean flopped down onto the bed beside him, a tentative hand sliding into Javert’s hair. His nails scratched gently as he pulled his fingers through and Javert had to close his eyes to compose himself. 

“Slow,” Jean mumbled, and pressed a kiss to the corner of Javert’s mouth, “Slow is good.”

They kissed lazily, sloppy in a way that Javert had never allowed himself to be sloppy, and when, finally, he felt Jean unbutton his jeans and slide his hand into his waistband, Javert felt a little calmer, a little more grounded.

Jean pushed himself up, releasing his hand and going instead to pull Javert’s jeans down. As soon as he heard Jean chuckle, Javert remembered.


Oh Christ alive.


“Batman,” Jean said, running the back of his hand slowly over Javert’s underwear, carefully avoiding the thing Javert really wanted him to be touching right now, “I didn’t have you down as the type.”

“They were on sale,” Javert confessed, hands pressed over his eyes, face burning so much he thought he might pass out there and then, “I didn’t have a lot of choice at the time.”

Jean didn’t laugh anymore, thank goodness. He slipped his hand inside Javert’s underwear, grasping him, drawing a moan from Javert’s throat that he didn’t know he was capable of.

“I like them,” Jean whispered, “They make you – human.”

Another firm stroke and Javert peeked out from beneath his hands, breathing ragged.

“Really?”

“Sure. I always preferred Superman myself, of course,” Jean sprawled over him, hand trapped between them, and kissed Javert’s face, lips creeping up to whisper in his ear, “But it won’t matter in a minute, when I tear them off you.”

So this whole 'Shorts' affair has just turned into a modern AU takeover...ah well. To add to the fun, none of these have been in chronological order and they will continue to not be so :D

Fair warning, gang - I am going to be spending the next three months of my life beyond stressed with full time work and a masters degree in its second semester, so I might not be around so much (not that I am terribly prolific anyway, I know). I am working on something with iberiandoctor, however slowly that comes along, and all I might have to offer aside from that are these small letting off steam drabbles. So I hope everyone has a good start to the year and I'll be around as often as I can <3

He’d got home late from work, caught up in processing a dealer who the beat cops had dragged in just before Javert was due to sign off. He’d helped out, of course; the guy was particularly nasty and they’d been onto him for a while. It had been sweet to watch him thrown in the cell, and it was only then that Javert remembered to text Jean.

SORRY, GOING TO BE LATE.

His phone beeped as he walked out to his car; it was cold, really cold, and he was glad he had thought to put the windscreen cover on that morning. He didn’t feel like being out for a minute longer than he had to be.

NO PROBLEM. SEE YOU SOON :) XX

Jean had always ended his messages with kisses, ever since the first time that Javert had been brave enough to give him his number. Jean was the only person who ever sent him kisses and it still caught him off guard, even now, four years later.

The house was aglow when he pulled up outside and there was a knocking as he got out of the car. Glancing up, he saw Cosette at the window, waving to him. She was mouthing something he couldn’t hear, probably calling to her father, and he waved back.

As soon as he opened the door, a pyjama clad missile launched into his arms.

“Daddy!”

“Hey baby,” Javert said, hoisting Cosette up until she could rest on his hip, “Why are you still up?”

“Papa said I could, to show you something I got at school today.”

She rested her blonde head on his shoulder, breath warm on his neck, and Javert decided that removing his coat wasn’t the number one priority right then. He hooked the door closed with his foot and went through to the kitchen. Jean was at the stove, tasting something from a teaspoon and humming.

Cosette clamoured to be let down and he took the opportunity when she went speeding out of the room to kiss Jean.

“Sorry. We caught a big fish.”

“No problem,” Jean turned and squeezed his hand, “Dinner will be ready in fifteen.”

Cosette came back clutching a piece of paper that she held out proudly. Quirking an eyebrow at Jean, Javert took it carefully. It was a certificate, awarded for going above and beyond the call of duty.

“Wow,” he said, “What did you do?”

Cosette looked ready to burst with pride. Jean wasn’t far off that look himself, actually.

“Some of the big boys were picking on Noah,” Cosette said, “And I went up to them and told them to stop and when they wouldn’t I got in the way so they couldn’t hurt him and screamed until Mr Fauchelevent came and found us.”

“Noah,” Javert racked his memory, “Is he the one-”

“Yep,” Jean said.

Noah was a tiny boy with Downs Syndrome, an easy target even at a school as good as Cosette’s was supposed to be.

“Well, mademoiselle, I am very impressed,” Javert scooped her up again and kissed her cheeks, “That was a very brave thing to do.”

“It wasn’t brave, Papa,” she said, “It was right.”

Judging by Jean’s laugh, he must have had quite a look on his face, hearing his words parroted back at him. 

“Come on,” he said, “I’ll tuck you in and you can tell me more about it.”

Ten minutes later, on his return to the kitchen, Jean was laying the table. As he turned to the stove, Javert stole up behind him and wrapped his arms around him, burying his face in Jean’s shoulder. Jean sighed and his hand came up to tangle in Javert’s hair.

“Thanks for dinner.”

“You haven’t eaten it yet.”

“Doesn’t matter.”

Jean hummed and turned in his arms, pressing his lips to Javert’s until he yielded and kissed him back.

“What’s up?” Jean whispered, when they both came up for air, “You’re quieter than usual.”

“Just wondering how I got so lucky,” Javert confessed. There was no point hiding anything from Jean – he always knew anyway.

“Funny,” Jean said, tugging Javert down until their foreheads rested together, “When I saw you carry our daughter up to bed, I found myself wondering the exact same thing.”

Warning for suicide attempt and strong language


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


It had to be raining, didn’t it? It hadn’t rained for weeks and now, on the night he’d finally decided to take a walk off the edge of the bridge, the weather was so fucking clichéd that he’d look like a freaking melodramatic asshole.

Well, it couldn’t be helped.

Javert hovered near the railing, watching the raindrops fall onto the river. The patter was loud enough to drain out the sound of the traffic on the main road and he could kid himself he was alone. Then again, it was so dark and the rain so heavy that no one would see him anyway, even with the orange glow of the streetlights that lined the bridge. 

Pulling the hood up on his coat, he lit a cigarette with a steady hand. Tobacco had been his only vice, in a life of soulless living, and once upon a time he had been concerned that it would kill him. If he’d known that he would end up here, perhaps he’d have indulged a little more in everything he had denied himself. A life of healthy eating, abstinence and near constant chastity hadn’t helped in the end, had it? He could still hear the screams in his head, the echoes of the nightmares that had been keeping him up and if he closed his eyes, he could still see that kid’s face, his head staved in and a gun clutched in his hand.


Christ.


His cigarette dropped from his mouth and hit the shiny pavement, and when Javert reached out his hands to the railings, this time he wasn’t so steady.

The metal was cold, slick to the touch and as Javert lifted his leg over the bar, he caught himself being careful, like that was going to matter in a minute or two. For a split second, he considered not even letting his second foot come to rest on the edge of the bridge and just letting go, but his battered self-preservation raised its head just enough to stop him.

Javert gazed down at the swirling water, the current strong beneath the bridge, and tried to breathe. He hated water, fucking hated it, and this was only fair. This was the only thing he deserved. A bullet would be too quick. A car on the trainline was too selfish. An overdose was too much, too much like what had happened to Ma and Javert didn’t hate himself that much. Well…not quite.

He didn’t hear the footsteps over the screams ringing in his ears until it was too late.

“I don’t know about you,” said a man’s voice, “But I usually look at the water from this side of the railings.”


Great.


“Do me a favour,” Javert said, “And piss off.”

“No. I don’t think I will.”

The man’s step was heavy as he came up to the railing, into Javert’s eyeline if he just turned his head a little.

“I’m going to stand here a moment,” the man said.

Javert didn’t reply, but the old policeman’s curiosity made him turn, just that fraction, to take a look at his new companion. 

The man was shorter than he was, wider at the shoulders, and his completely-inappropriate-for-the-weather t-shirt showed off some impressive arms. His hair was curly, brownish with flashes of grey that shone under the streetlight, and he had a short cropped beard to match. Just over his shoulder, Javert saw the car that he must have come from pulled up to the kerb.

“You a cop?” the man asked, pointlessly, because any fool could have ascertained that from his badge still pinned to his jacket. He was just trying to get Javert to talk.

“Well, you’re not actually in a uniform,” the man continued, leaning forwards to rest his forearms on the railing, “So you must be an inspector, right? I think that’s how it works.”

Javert kept his head turned away.

“I’m Jean,” the man said, “Jean Valjean. I’m on my way home, driving along, and I didn’t see you here. My daughter did. She told me to stop and come over.”

Daughter? Javert tried to look behind him to see if he had a bigger audience than he thought. Jean caught him looking and shook his head.

“Don’t worry, she’s in the car. I didn’t want her to see – well, you know.”

“She must have sharp eyes,” Javert said, “To see a man in black through rain like this.”

He hadn’t meant to speak, but the man’s voice was rolling through him, cutting through the noise in his head and it was quieter than it had been in weeks. 

“Cosette didn’t have the best start in life,” Jean said, “She’s had to be sharp, before she came to me.”

He was being vague on purpose. It was a technique that Javert had used at work, forcing a person to ask questions, drawing them out until there was a dialogue happening. Jena didn’t look much like law enforcement though. Perhaps he’d just had to talk a lot of people round in his life.

“She’s a good girl,” Jean said, when Javert once again did not speak, “She didn’t talk much either, when I first took her in. Can’t stop her now, of course.”


Ah well. That explained it.


 “Are you going to tell me your name?”

“Javert.”

“Javert. No first name?”

“Not one that I’ve used for a long time. Just Javert.”

Jean went quiet himself then, leaning over to look down at the water. His t-shirt sleeve rode up and Javert saw the dark edge of a tattoo on his bicep. Jean didn’t look like the sort to have ink, and Javert wanted to know what it was.

The rain eased and Jean pulled back before Javert could form the question. On the railings, Jean hand crept closer to Javert’s.

“So,” Jean said, “Am I going to have to drag you off here or will you come quietly?”

The question was so unexpected that Javert couldn’t answer straightaway. He should just do it now, before this stranger could hurl himself further into his life and ruin his plans. No bleeding heart with a hero complex was going to stop him, not when he’d already left his resignation on Chabouillet’s desk, not when – 

Cool fingers circled his wrist, and Javert felt all the fight drain from him, like he’d been winded. His legs were weak and barely holding him, but Jean was as strong as he looked and he pulled Javert over the rails as though he weighed nothing. He hit the pavement and rolled over, pulling his knees up to his chin. He’d failed even at this, failed at throwing himself off a bridge at the first touch of a hand from a handsome man. 


Weak, weak, fucking weak and they’d all know it –


A sob, much to his disgust, rumbled in his chest and forced itself from his mouth, followed by another and another until he was crying into his hands and hoping that he’d just be left alone. Jean had different ideas; he dropped to the ground beside him and pulled Javert’s hands away from his face.

“Look at me, Javert. Look at me!”

He opened his eyes, to find Jean’s gaze fixed on him.

“I’m here,” Jean said, “You’re not alone.”

He pulled Javert to him, holding him tightly, until Javert stopped fighting and fell into him, face buried in his shoulder. At least like this the man couldn’t see him weeping.


You’re not alone.


Javert did not know how long they sat there, but Jean was shivering in his t-shirt by the time Javert stopped crying, and when Jean pulled him to his feet, they were both suddenly shy.

“Come on,” Jean said, “You can stay with us tonight. We have a spare room.”

A little girl was curled up on the backseat, a girl no older than five or six with shining golden hair, and Javert was so grateful that she was sleeping. He wasn’t sure that he could answer any more questions tonight, even from the kid who had probably saved his life.

“You could just take me home,” Javert mumbled as he folded himself into the front seat, “It’s not far from here.”

“I don’t think so,” Jean said carefully, “Cosette will want to know that you are alright, when she wakes up. And I make excellent pancakes at breakfast time.”

Javert snorted and wound his window down a crack as Jean pulled off the bridge and onto the main road. 

“I don’t like pancakes,” he said, marvelling at the lightness in his own voice. 

“That’s okay,” Jean laughed, “I make a good omelette too.”

Yeah so I decided that in this AU, they haven't met before. It just makes life easier that way.

Javert has bad dreams, sometimes

Javert supposed he should be grateful that it didn't happen the very moment that he moved in with Jean. His subconscious at least had the good grace to wait a few weeks before introducing his partner to his fucked up psyche. 

Javert had never shared a bed with anyone, beyond the odd one night here and there when he was younger, with whatever guy he could pick up and walk away from the next day. Truth be told, there hadn't been any for years before Jean pulled him down from that bridge, not that Javert had told him that for a long time.

“It's ok,” Jean had smiled, pulling him close, “There hasn't been anyone before you for more years than I can even remember.”

“You have an excuse,” Javert said, “You've been busy with Cosette.”

“Only for the last four years,” Jean nuzzled his ear, lips soft against his cheek, “Not much of an excuse before that.”

He started out staying for a few hours and then heading back to his own apartment, whatever the time of the night. He'd told Jean that he slept better in his own bed, and that was part of the truth. The rest of it was that he just wasn't ready, not for whatever it seemed that Jean was willing to offer him, and that he didn't want to freak Jean out too much with his nightmares. Thankfully, Jean accepted it easily enough. Perhaps he had known even then that Javert would eventually come to him permanently. He probably did. 

When Javert had caught up and seen the lie of his future, he gracelessly learned the art of sharing a bed and a life. How Jean didn't kill him in those first couple of weeks after he moved in, Javert did not know. He was moody and distant, he could see himself doing it, and Jean only smiled and waited some more. Each night he found Javert in whatever corner of the house he had squirrelled himself away in, and brought him to bed. At first Jean was content to let him lay on his side of the bed, just getting used to the idea of someone else breathing beside him. Then, inch by inch, night by night, he'd edged closer and closer until they were touching, and Javert found that he could bear this too. The night Jean turned on his side and wrapped an arm around him, Javert thought he might die, although whether from being overwhelmed or being happy, he could not tell. 

He slept better after that, trusting Jean and trusting himself. The trouble with a deep sleep was that the nightmares had a chance to unbury themselves. 


It was always the same, always that kid from two years ago, the one who had almost made Javert jump. The kid who died with a bullet in his head as Javert tried to get him to put down the fake weapon he held in his hand. That kid was terrified, so scared and so sure of what he was doing, and Javert remembered the taste of his blood as the bullet hit him and the spray hit Javert in the face. The sniper had been dragged to a misconduct trial and fired, but that verdict didn't bring back that little boy who had been pressed into a war he didn't understand. The blood, always the blood, and the screams of the mother who had arrived just in time to see her baby die. The screams, the blood, and then Javert's own mother, choking on her own fluids as he hit her back again and again, then the blood. Always the blood, always the blood-


He woke with a start, unable to move, and he struggled against the weight that held him down. He couldn't breathe, God he was choking –

“Javert, it's me,” a gentle voice, a soft hand on his face, “It's ok. It's only me.”

Jean. 

It was Jean’s arm across his chest, and he was in Jean’s bed, in their bed, and he was safe. 

There was no blood. No bullets. He was safe.

“Jean, Christ,” he laid back and put a hand over his face, “I'm so sorry. I'm sorry.”

“Don't apologise.”

Jean was sat up now, looking down at him so so gently that Javert inexplicably thought he would weep.

“What was that?”

“A nightmare,” Javert mumbled, “I get them sometimes. The kid, the one I told you about –“

“You were calling for your mother,” Jean reached out and stroked his sweaty hair back from his face, “She there too?”

Javert didn't feel like discussing the night she had died, not like this, so he just nodded. 

Jean wriggled down until he was under the duvet once more, and his lips came to Javert’s cheek. 

“I'm sorry,” he said, “You should have told me sooner.”

“It’s ok,” Javert closed his eyes, “They - they've been less frequent you know. Being here with you. I haven't had them so often.”

Jean’s arm came over him once more and Javert turned on his side, allowing Jean to tuck himself in behind him and bury his face against the back of his neck. It was confining, but Javert found he did not mind it at all. Whoever would have known that he liked to be held? 

“I'll protect you,” Jean murmured fiercely, “You don't have to hide from me.” 

“I know,” Javert grinned and lifted Jean’s hand to his mouth. He kissed each knuckle and then placed it over his own heart.

You know, I keep looking at this thinking that I should do a chapter or two that isn't so horrifically fluffy, but then something happens and I end up wrapped in candyfloss again...


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


“Are you sure you’re up to this?” Jean shrugged into his jacket and eyed Javert, “You don’t look great.”

Javert snorted and tried to make it look like he wasn’t leaning on the doorframe for support. He was recovering from a nasty bout of flu, bad enough that even he had to admit that he wasn’t well. Jean pressed the back of his hand to Javert’s forehead. He was still very warm. Too ill to be left alone with the baby.

“I’m fine,” Javert said, “He’s two, Jean. I’m sure I’ll cope.”

As though he knew he was being talked about, Gavroche appeared at the top of the stairs behind Javert.

“Daddy, Cory’s in the potty!” he wailed.

Javert blinked hard, twice, then all but pushed Jean out of the door.

“We’ll be fine.”

The last thing Jean heard as the door closed behind him was Javert call up the stairs, “Well, fish him out and bring him down here!”

Jean chuckled as he climbed into the car. If he could get these meetings over quickly, he’d be home to rescue Javert by lunchtime.

His clients, however, had other ideas, and it was gone four by the time he pulled back into the drive.

The house was quiet when he opened the door, but the signs of a cooped up toddler were everywhere. The lounge was a disaster zone, Gavroche’s toys spread across the floor and into every corner, with one unfortunately very orange crayon smashed into the carpet.

There was a sound from the kitchen and he went through, shedding his jacket, to find Cosette was there, home from school. She was plugged into her headphones as usual, dancing around as she cleaned up the remains of breakfast and what must also be lunch, cream cheese smeared everywhere and grapes on the floor.

“Hey, baby,” he called softly, not wanting to startle her. She turned to him, grinned and pulled out an earbud.

“Papa, next time Daddy says he is feeling better, don’t believe him.”

“I won’t,” he pulled her into a hug, “Thank you for cleaning up.”

“That’s okay. They’re upstairs.”

She plugged her headphone back in and went back to the dishwasher. Ten years old and already so responsible. They’d done a good job with her, that was for sure.

Jean climbed the stairs quietly, listening for sounds of life, but all he heard was the soft chatter of the TV coming from the bedroom. He pushed the door, already ajar no doubt from Cosette’s looking in, and found the curtains drawn and the room in darkness. The TV was playing, some cartoon that Javert must have pulled up, but no one was watching it.

Javert was asleep, flat on his back, his breathing still a little heavy from his flu. Gavroche was sleeping too, curled up on Javert’s stomach, his little head resting over Javert’s heart. Javert had a hand pressed to Gavroche’s back, anchoring him in place, and Jean’s heart swelled. Gavroche had Cory, that intrepid, toilet-adventuring elephant clutched in his hand, which meant that Javert had even washed and dried it for him.

Loathe to interrupt the peace, Jean took a photo on his phone and then picked Gavroche up. If he didn’t wake him now, he’d never sleep tonight. Gavroche shifted in his arms and snuffled into his shoulder, but as soon as the weight lifted, Javert’s eyes flew open.

“What-”

“Shh, it’s okay. It’s me,” Jean reached down a hand and smoothed Javert’s hair back. He was even warmer than he had been that morning. 

“Jean?” Javert croaked, “I think perhaps I’m not as alright as I thought.”

“No, you’re not,” Jean stoked his cheek, “Go back to sleep. I’ll bring you some dinner later.”

Javert sighed and laid his head back down, turning over on his side. Jean watched him for a moment or two, before he realised that Gavroche was awake and watching too. 

“Papa,” Gavroche yawned, as they slipped out of the room, “Daddy’s poorly.”

“I know, little man.”

“We gave Cory a bath!” Gavroche waved the elephant in his face, still damp and smelling of lemon.

“I thought he smelled nice,” Jean grinned, heading downstairs, “Were you a monkey today? I’ve seen the mess downstairs!”

“Yeah!”

Just a little note to say that I am alive and still around! As well as my dissertation, I'm working on another collaboration with the wonderful iberiandoctor, which we hope to start posting soon, and another fic that I am slowly feeling my way with. Somehow, in the year that I have had the least amount of time to dedicate to fic since I graduated in 2013, I've suddenly come alive again! Go figure. I hope you're all having a great summer :D

In the early days, before Javert could convince himself that Jean actually liked him, they used to kiss. Kiss a lot, but nothing more, because Javert knew he had a tendency to freak out and he didn’t want to scare Jean away. Jean seemed happy enough with the arrangement, never pushing Javert further than he was willing to do, but always eager.

It was on one such night that Jean found the tattoo. Javert hadn’t been hiding it as such; after all, he had been happy to finally hitch up Jean’s sleeve and explore the prison number that he had spotted on their very first meeting, and Jean got dangerously moist eyed when Javert ran his fingers over it, gentle as he was able. The tattoo had been done inside and never healed properly, the skin scarred and bunched, and when he pulled away at the sight of Jean’s tears, he feared that he had hurt him. Jean shook his head and caught Javert’s hand, putting it back on the black numbers.

“It doesn’t hurt. No one has ever touched it, that’s all.”

They fell asleep side by side on the couch that night, Javert’s fingers drawing lazy circles on Jean’s arm.

It was a few weeks later that Jean discovered Javert’s tattoo, although the situation was essentially the same. They were curled on the couch again, both exhausted after long days at work, and Jean had plied them both with too much beer and whisky. 

Javert’s head rested on the back of the couch and he was dozing as Jean pressed lazy kisses to his neck, fingers tangled in his ponytail. It was warm, almost too warm, and Jean chased a drop of sweat that trickled down Javert’s neck, trapping it with his lips.

“Javert,” he murmured.

“Mmm?”

“I’m just going to undo your collar, ok? Two or three buttons.”

“Yep,”

Jean’s fingers were clumsy but he manhandled the buttons on the uniform shirt open and his hand, flushed and warm, slipped just inside to rest on Javert’s chest. Javert forced himself to stay calm. This was okay. It was Jean. It was only Jean, and hadn’t Javert hoped that one day he would be brave enough for Jean to be touching him a whole lot more? 

Jean resumed the neck kissing, wholly much more enjoyable, and then his finger tips began to roam, only far enough to brush against the edge of Javert’s tattoo, planted firmly on his chest.

“What’s that?” Jean asked, pulling his hand away but kneeling up to peek inside Javert’s shirt. Javert blushed, too tired to do anything but turn his head and watch as Jean saw the god awful wolf head for the first time. 

“Laugh if you want,” Javert said, trying to sound off hand, “It’s bad.”

Jean didn’t laugh though. He peeled the shirt back enough to see it properly, and Javert marvelled at how even that was okay.

“It’s not bad,” Jean touched a tip of his finger to it, “It’s beautiful.”

“It was a mistake,” Javert said, his own hand coming up to anchor onto Jean’s wrist, “I was young. I had some misguided notion that if I embraced it, it might make it better.”

“Embraced what?”

Jean was looking at him, eyes heavy with fatigue but bright, so bright, with curiosity that Javert could not help but talk.

“The name. When I was a kid, they used to call me Wolf. It wasn’t a nickname, it was an insult. Because they said my mother was a bitch and since I had no father to speak of, he must have been a passing wolf that she – well, you know. I was certainly ugly enough to be half dog, that was true enough.”

“Oh – Javert-”

“It’s alright, Jean,” Javert said, shifting under that gaze which always saw right through him, “I was stupid. That’s why I kept it, to remind me of what can happen when I don’t bloody think things through.”

As he talked, Javert was aware that this was the most he had spoken about himself in one go since the night Jean had hauled him off the bridge. And Jean wasn’t saying anything. As Javert trailed off, Jean went back to the tattoo and leaned in, carefully pressing his lips to the wolf. Javert twitched and tried to pull away, but Jean held him firm.

“Wolf,” he murmured, “They were wrong to use it as an insult. Wolves are strong and wild and shy and beautiful.”

“You’re rambling,” Javert said, but allowed Jean to pull him to his feet anyway. They both swayed, although whether from fatigue or the beer, Javert couldn’t tell. 

“Not rambling,” Jean said, “If you’re a wolf, it’s only cos you’re all those good things.”

Javert just rolled his eyes, hoping his tight grip on Jean’s hand didn’t give him away, especially when Jean dragged him to the bottom of the stairs. He hadn’t got so far as staying the night yet.

“Just sleep with me,” Jean leaned into him and brushed his nose against his neck, “Nothing else. Just want to hold you.”

Javert could not resist. Jean clattered through to the bathroom to give him time to settle into the bed, which he tried to do. He took off his trousers and shirt, squeezing into a t-shirt of Jean’s from the laundry basket. When Jean returned, similarly attired, Javert was lying on his back, trying not to bunch his hands into fists. Jean got the light, then slipped into next to him, just close enough that he could rest his cheek on Javert’s shoulder, pressing it to the wolf head. Javert wondered if Jean could feel the pounding of his heart.

“Jean-”

“Sleep. I got you.”

And as anxious as he was, Javert felt himself beginning to succumb to the softness of the bed, Jean’s warmth, and as he was just drifting off, he felt Jean’s fingers in his hair and the brush of lips to his ear.

“Beautiful. Wolves are beautiful.”

You know, when I started this, I didn't think Javert was going to have so many ~issues~. Foolish really, knowing what he's like. Apparently, the ~issues~ cannot be contained, even in fluffy modern AU

At seven thirty, Javert closed Gavroche’s bedroom door and wandered through to his office. He had a few files to work on, and with at least half an hour before Jean came home, he might get something done. 

He did, more than he thought, because the next thing he knew, Cosette was at his door.

“Dad, it’s almost nine o’clock. Where’s Papa?”

“Nine?” Javert looked at his watch and then up into Cosette’s concerned face. This was late for Jean, especially if he hadn’t sent a message. Javert checked his phone anyway, even though he knew it hadn’t gone off. Nothing.

“It’s OK, he probably got held up somewhere,” Javert said, to reassure himself as much as her, “You get ready and I’ll phone him.”

Cosette nodded and wandered away, and he heard the taps running in the bathroom as he pulled up the speed dial. He sank into the chair as the phone rang and rang, eventually going to the answer phone.

“Jean, it’s me, call me when you get this.”

He hung up, put his phone in his pocket, then immediately took it out again. He sent a text too, just in case.

The house was quiet, a thing that he would usually appreciate, but tonight it was off. It was missing something. Missing Jean.

He gave Cosette five minutes, then slipped into her room. At twelve she didn’t really need to be put to bed anymore, but he still liked to check on her. Jean was still reading with her most nights, sharing novel after novel, but she didn’t ask for the same thing from Javert. 

“Where is he?”

“On his way, I expect. You go to sleep.”

She didn’t look convinced, but she nodded and settled down in her bed.

“Night, Dad. Love you.”

“Love you.”

He made it downstairs and into the lounge before he couldn’t stay on his feet. Still no answer and Jean was an hour late now. He’d never left it this long without getting in touch. 

Javert had never been one to panic, and he tried to remind himself of that now. Policemen didn’t panic. They didn’t assume or jump to conclusions and he schooled his breathing, anything to try and slow his racing heart. He couldn’t panic. He wouldn’t help anyone if he panicked. 

Instead he went to the kitchen and started the washing up; the only concession he made was to place his phone by the sink, where he could easily see it. 

The most likely thing, of course, was that Jean had got caught up at the office, forgotten his charger and lost track of time. Or he’d driven one of his clerks home and been offered a drink that he would never refuse. Yes, there was any number of reasonable explanations and he focused on the task at hand until it was compete, and then he allowed himself to check his phone.

Ten o’clock.

Javert began to pace.

He went to the lounge to do it, allowed himself one more phone call that went straight to the machine, then switched on the TV and began his walking, up and down. The TV filled the silence, at least, and he let out a breath when the local news passed with nothing of note to say. 

Patient. He had to be patient.

His stomach turned over and over, and he had to put his phone out of the way. He went to the window and gazed up the street, found he couldn’t see well and went to the door instead. He leaned against the door post, unsure that his legs would hold him much longer. The road was quiet.

He went back in, made a cup of coffee to give his hands something to do, paced back in the lounge. He was itching, as though he was on fire, and all he could think was that Jean must be somewhere, hurt or trapped, and he could do nothing to help. He buried his face in his hands, rocking in the chair, God, to think – to think that – 

Then, just as he thought he’d go mad from the waiting, he heard a car coming up the road and the crunch of gravel on the driveway. 


Oh, thank God.


He met Jean at the door, fighting himself not to leap on the man as soon as he came in. He crossed his arms to hide his trembling hands.

“I am so sorry I’m late,” Jean shook his head, “You wouldn’t believe-”

Javert managed to retain his calm until the moment Jean removed his jacket. His shirt was covered in blood.

“Christ, Jean, what happened? You’re bleeding!”

He only realised that he had taken hold of the shirt when Jean put his own hands over Javert’s.

“It’s not mine,” Jean said, “Breathe. It’s not mine, Javert.”

Javert was vaguely aware of being guided to the sofa, and he watched as Jean pulled the ruined shirt over his head and dropped it on the floor.

“See?” he said, “Look at me, Javert. I’m alright.”

His heart was pounding in his ears, his fear coursing through his body, unrepressed now and raging, and he felt rather than saw Jean sit beside him and wrap his arms around his shoulders.

“I’m alright. My phone died and I thought it would be fine but I saw a man come off his motorbike at the bottom of the hill by the office. I had to help him, he was in a mess.”

Javert nodded, although he wasn’t sure that he had really heard the words, not at first. Jean held him tightly, murmuring in his ear until he felt his chest begin to loosen and he could breathe deeply again. 

“Was he alright?” he muttered, “The man?”

“Not great but he’ll live,” Jean said thickly, and when Javert looked at him, he saw tears gathering in his eyes. He reached up a thumb and wiped away one that had managed to escape. 

“Don’t cry. Please.”

“I’m so sorry, I didn’t think of letting you know,” Jean growled, “It was selfish of me. You must have been so worried.”

“I was,” Javert said, and it still makes him marvel that he has come this far, that he is someone who can just talk about his feelings now as though it won’t kill him, “But you’re here. Just don’t do it again.”

“I won’t,” Jean kissed him, gentle lips on his ear, his cheek, “I need to have a shower, I can feel it all over me. Come with me?”

“I’ll make some toast and bring it up. I doubt you’ve eaten.”

“You’re too good to me.”

“Don’t bloody forget it.”

Warning for mention of suicide attempt


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


The day after Javert almost jumped off the bridge, he removed himself from the life of the stranger who had stopped to save his. He woke early, so early it was dark, and slipped out of the house before anyone else was up. He hardly knew where he was; he hadn’t exactly been in the right frame of mind to keep track of the route last night, but that didn’t matter. He just had to get out, and fast. 

So he walked and walked, headed in what he thought was the direction of his flat and when he saw a bus on its route, he knew where he was. Not actually that far from the bridge, and he couldn’t help himself. He was drawn to it, helpless, with the screams echoing still in his head. 

He took up the position he had the night before, gazing down into the swirling water, and for a wild moment, he almost did what he should have done before. If it wasn’t for the cars full of early morning commuters rushing along behind him, perhaps he would have. Then he remembered Jean’s voice, the arms around him, holding him whilst he sobbed like a child, and how it had for a moment been as though he was not alone. He couldn’t do it. Not right now, anyway. He’d lost his nerve, like he did with every fucking thing. 

So he went back to work, and he didn’t tell anyone what had happened, because who would he tell? They’d only want to take him off duty and then where would he be? Even more alone that he already was, with nothing to take his mind off it. He worked long, long hours and only stumbled home to sleep and always there was the bridge, just out of sight, as he walked the two miles from home to work and back again. It would be so easy. 

Then one day he was at his desk and a sergeant poked her head around the door. 

“Inspector, there’s a man here to see you. Says his name is Jean and you’d be expecting him?”

Javert froze, his pen dropping from his hand. 

He was here? 

“Send him in,” he said, his voice rough, “Please.”

He stood up as she left, then sat down again, then leapt to his feet as Jean came through the door. He was alone, the little blonde haired child who had spotted Javert on the bridge not at his side, and for that Javert was relieved. He did not think he had the strength to meet the girl properly. 

“You left without saying goodbye,” Jean leaned against the wall, his arms crossed, “Cosette was very upset, you know. I had a hard time convincing her that you were safe and well. I still don’t think that she believes me.”

“How did you find me?”

“You’re a policeman,” Jean said, “Not that many stations round here. I just drove round asking for you until someone said they’d fetch you.”

“And why – “Javert could feel himself floundering. This man was a stranger, a stranger who had seen him at his very worst and suddenly here he was, demanding answers as though they had been friends all along, “What are you doing here?”

“Got to convince Cosette that you’re safe,” Jean shrugged, “It’s been weeks and she’s still asking.”

“Well, you’ve seen me. You can tell her.”

“Not good enough,” Jean smiled then, and Javert had to look away, “You’re going to have to make an appearance, I’m afraid.”

“Look, I’m grateful for what you did-”

“Show it then,” Jean took a step towards him and Javert actually felt himself back away. Jean’s eyes were dark, boring into him and he remembered how much this man knew about him, the things he had told him that night. He knew him better than anyone that he had worked with in this station, and wasn’t that just about the most pathetic thing of all?

“Come for dinner one day,” Jean said, his voice softer, “Just dinner. Cosette can see you and then you never need to bother with us again. It would mean a lot. To her and to me.”

The heat in the office was stifling and Jean’s fiery presence only made it worse, and that was why Javert agreed, in the end, to get him out of there. Or at least, that is why he told himself he had agreed. 

Two days later, he walked up to the familiar front door, a bottle of wine clutched in his hands, and rang the bell. 

“Papa, he’s here!” a little voice cried out, “The man is here!”

“His name is Javert,” Jean was saying as he opened the door, “Not ‘the man’.”

Guess who's actually had some time today to do a bit of rambling?

Inspired by the recent weather and a Tumblr post I saw that was like 'people should just write more of what they want to write' and I was like daaaamn - I want fluff :D

It had been a long, hot summer and even Jean, who loved the heat, had to admit that it had been too much. His garden was suffering, no matter what he did to keep it watered. Cosette was suffering too. She had liked it at first, but as the summer wore on and she realised that yes, she’d have to wear sun cream all the time and yes, she would need to take a bath every night, she had liked it less and less. 

As for Javert – well, he liked it the least out of anyone. He wasn’t a good sleeper as it was, and seemed to have been getting barely any in the heatwave, no matter if the windows were open and the fans on or not. He left for work each morning with sweat beading on his forehead and he came home each night drenched, embarrassed as Jean peeled his sweaty shirts from him and tossed them in the wash. It cost Javert a lot to keep his temper as well as he did, and Jean wondered in the end if he was just too tired to be his usual moody self. 

All in all, they’d had enough of the summer. 

On Sunday morning, Jean woke alone in his bed. That wasn’t unusual – Javert had been up early most days lately. He turned over and glanced at the clock – seven am. Cosette would sleep another hour or so, and he almost closed his eyes again when he realised what had woken him at all. 

Rain, spraying lightly on his face where he lay beneath the permanently open window. And it was cold, too. No wonder he was wrapped up in the duvet. 

He got to his knees and peered out at the grey streets. The rain was pouring and the air was fresh, and he put a hand out to catch some drops. The garden would be happy, at the very least. 

The house was quiet, aside from the rain, and he slid off the bed. His hoodies were buried at the back of the wardrobe, behind the shorts and Javert’s freshly laundered uniform, but he managed to dig one out with barely any damage to the lazy piles that had formed on the shelves. 

Pulling the hoodie on, he went first to Cosette’s room to find that her bed was empty. That wasn’t such a surprise, and he padded down the stairs and into the kitchen. He filled the coffee machine with water and headed out of the open back door. 

They were at the far end of the garden, under the pagoda he had built the last summer. Two blurs through the rain – one grey, one bright yellow, and he waved. The yellow blur waved back. 

He went back into the kitchen and made the coffee, two huge mugs, and added a hot chocolate to the tray. He unearthed the umbrella from the cupboard under the stairs and, juggling it and the tray, went back outside. 

The grass was a bit of a swamp and the mud oozed over the soles of his flip flops, but he fixed his eyes on the pagoda and went carefully, so he didn’t spill the drinks. 

“Hello, Papa,” Cosette said as he approached. “We’re watching the rain!”

She was wearing her bright yellow pyjamas and rain coat, her feet swinging in wellies from her perch on Javert’s lap. He had an arm around her, holding her still, and he gave Jean one of his careful smiles. 

“She woke me up,” Javert said, as though he needed to explain anything at all. This was still new to him, this gentle living, the idea that Cosette should sometimes choose him over Jean. 

“Quite right too,” Jean smiled in return, and handed Javert one of the coffees. “Do you mind if I join you?”

Cosette, her mouth full of hot chocolate, shook her head and slipped off Javert’s lap so that he could move up to make room for Jean to sit. Jean smirked into his mug when she clambered up again to settle herself back on her perch. Javert looked startled, but put his arm back around her as she lay back against his chest. 

Jean shifted closer, an inch, two inches, and when he could rest his head on Javert’s shoulder, he did so. Javert stiffened, just for a second, just like he always did when Jean gave him any affection that he felt he did not deserve. 

“I think the heat might have broken,” Jean murmured, sipping at his coffee. “It’s going to be alright.” 

“Yeah,” Javert said, and the fingers of the arm holding Cosette crept across to hold Jean’s hand. “I think you’re right.

It's me, back at it again. Have an early moment in their relationship :D

Javert wasn’t exactly sure how he ended up in the middle of a gaggle of shoppers on the Northern Line at ten o’clock on a Saturday morning, but here he was stepping off the train onto the platform at Camden Town, and wondering if it was too late to turn around and go home.

It was already busy, and he jogged up the stairs to avoid getting stuck in the crowd that had poured off the tube with him. He much preferred buses, if he had to take public transport at all, but he’d spent so long deciding what to wear after his shower that morning that he was running late. 

He set off at a stride, leaving the busy high street behind, and tried to quell his nerves. He shouldn’t be nervous. Cosette was only a child. A bright and precocious child, but only a child. He’d met her before. This wasn’t such a big thing. It wasn’t. 

Which was already well, but by the time he arrived at the gates of London Zoo, he was so anxious that he didn’t even see Jean and Cosette stood there waiting for him. 

“Javert!” 

Cosette danced up to him and grabbed his hand.

“I thought you had forgotten!”

“Ah. No. I – missed the bus and had to take the underground. I’m sorry.”

“She’s being dramatic,” Jean said, appearing at his side. “It’s good to see you.”

For a moment, Jean leaned in as though he was going to take Javert’s other hand, then thought better of it. Javert stuffed the hand into his pocket and tried to smile.

“I’ve never been here before.”

“We love it, don’t we, Papa?”

They joined the small queue of people, Cosette chattering away about lions and penguins. Javert nodded in all the right places, trying to remember how he had ended up here. A few invites to dinner were all very well, but this was something else. He didn’t know what was expected of him here.

“Hey,” Jean put a hand on his shoulder. “You okay?”

Jean Valjean had too quickly developed a keen sense of what Javert was feeling at any given moment, and Javert wasn’t too sure what he thought about that. The hand on his shoulder felt like it was burning through his jacket, but he didn’t shrug it off. 

But the day passed, and Cosette was happy, dragging him from one enclosure to another with a running commentary about the animals within. Javert had never really been a fan of zoo – he didn’t like the cages – but this one was alright, as far as they went. And somehow, he made it through. 

Cosette had passed out in Jean’s arms by the time the day was done, and he hefted her over his shoulder with practiced ease. Javert walked at his side back to Camden, and Jean nodded at a coffee shop near the station. 

“Fancy it?”

“Yeah. Sure.”

Jean settled Cosette in a padded chair whilst Javert went to get some coffee. This he knew at least – Jean had already taken him for coffee once before – and he was feeling calmer by the time he sat down at the table. 

He pushed Jean’s coffee towards him.

“Thanks for inviting me out today. I had – a good time.”

“I’m not sure I believe you,” Jean grinned over the rim of his mug. “But I’ll pretend that I do.”

Javert snorted and took a sip of his own drink. His eyes wandered to Cosette, curled up in her chair, fair hair falling over her face, and felt a tightness in his chest. 

“She’s a good kid.”

“She is,” Jean nodded. “I wish she wasn’t so keen on zoos, but it is what it is. I’m not going to deny her. She’s had too much of that in her life.”

He saw Javert looking at him and shrugged.

“I’m not a fan of cages,” he said, by way of an explanation.

“Me neither.”

They sat in silence for a while and Javert downed half his coffee before he found his courage. 

“What happened to her? You’ve never said. Before you adopted her?”

Jean shook his head and put down his mug. He laid his hand over Javert’s and the heat from the mug seeped into Javert’s palm. It was all Javert could do not to curl his fingers and hold on tight. 

“I’ll tell you one day. But not today. Today is a happy day.”

Javert swallowed and nodded. And when Jean tightened his fingers around Javert’s instead, Javert couldn’t help but agree. 

A happy day.

Estevan, who picks all my Christmas fic, liked the idea of a Shorts Universe Christmas story this year, so here we are! 

It is also a lie that this is a 'Short', because it turned out to be over 3000 words long. Javert has a lot of issues, what can I say? ;)

Javert had been hoping that the call wouldn’t come. He had a feeling it might do, but the closer that it got to Christmas and he still hadn’t heard, he let himself believe that maybe he’d got away with it. 

Which he almost did, until the afternoon that he was halfway through a report that was killing him slowly, and he answered the ringing phone as a means of distraction rather than because he actually wanted to. 

“Javert,” he snapped, tossing his pen down in disgust.

“Hi,” said a soft voice. “How are you?”

Jean. 


Of course.


“I’m fine,” he said, distinctly aware of how not-fine he must sound. He swallowed and tried again, his jaw tight. 

“It’s just been a long day. How are you?”

“Oh, I’m fine,” Jean said lightly, and in the background Javert could hear the rattle of dishes in the sink. “Haven’t seen you for a while.”

There was a burst of laughter from a couple of the officers out in the main office, and Javert growled under his breath. He was halfway up to go and close the door when someone outside beat him to it, quietly pulling it shut until it clicked. At least one person out there was aware of how much noise they were making. 

“You can’t blame them for high spirits,” Jean said, and Javert could hear a smile in his voice. “It is almost Christmas, after all.”

“Don’t I know it.”

There was a moment of silence and Javert fought the urge to growl again. Why did he do this lately, whenever the man dared to call him? He always seemed to be ruining it. 

“Speaking of Christmas, Cosette wants to know what you are doing this year.”


And there it was.


“I’m working. I always work at Christmas.”

It wasn’t a lie. He always took the day shift on Christmas Day. It was usually quiet enough that he could get some work done, and the officers who had families could see their kids during the day at least. It worked out pretty well for everyone. He couldn’t remember the last time he’d done anything except work. 

“The whole day? Only Cosette and I will be volunteering during the day but we always have a late dinner. You’d be very welcome to join us.”

Of course they volunteered on Christmas Day. Javert could just imagine the pair of them in a homeless shelter or something, Jean wearing one of those aprons with a ridiculous slogan on it and serving up food, Cosette skipping between tables and putting smiles on sad faces. 

The air around Javert felt very thin as he put his head in his hand and sucked in a breath. Jean was waiting at the other end of the line for such a simple answer. It was simple. 


God, if only it was simple.


“Hey – you don’t have to, Javert. Cosette will understand that you’re busy.”

He must have been breathing harder than he thought, for Jean to pick up on it at the other end of the line. Then again, the man seemed to already know him better than anyone had known him. Jean Valjean was terrifying.
Javert gritted his teeth and forced himself to think of Cosette reaching tentatively to take his hand, to think of Jean’s smile and the unidentifiable feeling that churned in him when the man was near to him. 

“I’ll be there, if I can.”

x

A few days before Christmas he took the lunch break that he usually skipped and forced himself into a toy shop. He couldn’t turn up empty handed on Christmas Day - even he wasn’t so socially stunted that he could get away with being rude. And Cosette was only a kid, after all. Whatever his weird thing was with her father, it wasn’t her fault. Which was a fine sentiment, he thought, but faced with the noise of the toy shop and the crowds of determined last minute shoppers, he almost turned around and forgot the whole thing. 

“Hi there, sir.”

A beaming girl appeared at his side, name tag pinned to her grey t shirt. She barely came up to his shoulder but at that moment she filled the space around her and he had to take a step backwards. Unexpectedly, she seemed to get the message.

“Can I help you with anything?” she asked, lowering her voice. “You look a little bit lost.”

“I need to buy a present,” he said, and then heard how ridiculous that sounded, so added, “For a little girl. She’s five.”

“Ok, good start,” she said. “Do you know the kind of things that she likes to play with?”

Javert thought desperately back to his visits to the house. He’d never paid that much attention to the toys that were scattered around. There was just a lot of pink stuff that all blurred into one in his memory. 

“I don’t know,” he admitted.

“That’s alright,” the girl smiled. “We could take a walk around and see if anything springs to mind?”

Javert was certain that five minutes before he would have been sure that he didn’t need help, but that was before he walked into the shop. Now he was quite appreciative of the girl at his side. She led him patiently through the shop, pointing out popular toys that year and accepting each shake of the head with a cheerful smile. 

Javert was feeling increasingly desperate as the time ticked by, until they made it to the back of the second floor and his eye was caught by a huge shelf of cuddly toys. 

“She likes the animals at the zoo,” he said, remembering their trip, “She really liked the lions.”

“Perfect,” the girl said. “We have any animal you can think of here.”

She went to the shelf and plucked a lion down. It was a stupid looking thing, with enormous paws and a brightly coloured mane, but that seemed to be the norm with the toys in general. He turned the lion over in his hands and wondered if a cuddly toy was too personal for someone like him to buy. No one had ever bought him one, after all, and surely they would have if it was an appropriate present for anyone to buy a child?

“I think it’s perfect.” The girl interrupted his thoughts. “She will be happy that you remembered her favourite animal.”

“Do you think?”

“I would have been, when I was five. I still would be now! ”

Javert cleared his throat and held the lion a little more gently. 

“Well, do you have a wolf? She liked the wolves too.”

X

Javert lived with a half hope, all through Christmas Eve, that something might happen that meant he couldn't get away from his desk on Christmas Day. 

When it didn't, he made his way through the quiet streets on Christmas morning with wrapped presents in his rucksack and a bottle of wine in a bag swinging from the handle bars of his bike. The station was quiet, running on a skeleton crew, and he managed to get the bags in to his office without any of the officers spotting him. It was ridiculous to feel like a fraud, but he just did - so many years of shunning this stupid day and now he had presents and plans and somewhere he was wanted, and if any of them had dared to ask about it he couldn't say that he wouldn't have snapped at them.

Luckily for him - with a grim sense of what lucky meant in this case - he was out on the street for a lot of the day, attending to several domestic disputes that resulted in two men from two different incidents being hauled away from their families. It was enough of a distraction that Javert barely had time to think about his upcoming evening. Instead he saw the faces of the terrified children, hiding behind sofas in decorated rooms, sobbing as one parent was taken away and the other was - in both cases - treated for bleeding by emergency responders. One little boy actually answered the door to him, clutching a brand new fleece blanket covered in cartoon dogs, and took his hand to lead him to his mother, who was cowering in the bathroom upstairs. It was a scene that was too familiar to be comfortable, and Javert's skin burned with the memory of the first time a policeman had held his hand and followed him through the flat he had shared with his mother. The little boy was silent and Javert was grateful for it - he did not think he could have spoken to him even if he wanted to.

It was not surprising then that he felt sick with anxious nerves by the time he made it to Jean's house after his shift was over.

They were home, or at least it looked as though they were. Light glowed in the front windows and he imagined it was a special enough occasion to have the fireplace lit in the front room. A gentle fall of little white lights was draped over the front porch, but Jean did not subscribe to the outlandish taste of his neighbours, it seemed. Every house surrounding his was covered in garish lights, with inflatable characters adorning every other rooftop. It was a nightmare and Javert was keen to be away from it.

He wheeled his bike up the path and stowed it at the side of the porch, where he had been invited to do so before, and by the time he had made it back round to the front door, it was open and warmth was pouring out. Cosette was waiting for him.

“Javert! You're here.”

He wasn't sure what it said about him that a five year old was genuinely surprised that he'd kept his word, but he didn't have time to ponder it before Cosette had grabbed his hand and pulled him inside. The little boy with the blanket flashed before his eyes and he blinked hard as though he could chase the memory away. This house was too warm a place for such terrible things.

“Papa!” Cosette called, abandoning her charge to remove his own coat and shoes so she could rush towards the kitchen. “Javert is here. When is it dinner time?”

Jean was in the kitchen, dressed in short sleeves as he bent down in front of the oven and pulled out a tray of potatoes. Javert turned his head until he had straightened up, eyes fixed on Jean’s face so he didn’t have to see the muscles bulging from the sleeves of Jean’s t-shirt.

“Hi!” Jean grinned. “Merry Christmas! Have you had a good day?”

“Tolerable. How was your volunteering?” Javert asked, aware of the little ears that were listening. 

“We had a lovely time,” Jean said, putting the tray down on a board and picking up a fork to poke at the sprouts. He was so practiced at this, so organised, that Javert couldn’t help but smile. 

Cosette chattered about their day at the homeless centre, and the tables she had laid, and the children she had played with, and it was simple because all Javert had to do was listen and nod in all the right places. He tried not to stare at Jean the whole time, but as his nerves began to unwind in the warmth of the house, he found that there was little else he felt like doing. If Jean knew he was being watched, he didn’t show it, and it wasn’t long before he was serving the meal. Javert couldn’t remember the last time had eaten an actual Christmas dinner. 

“Sorry that the turkey is cold but I had to cook it yesterday,” Jean said, “The bird is always the casualty of the volunteer’s Christmas.”

Javert shrugged.

“This is fine. I’d be eating a microwave meal, if I’d even left work at all.”

“That’s sad. I’m glad that you’re here,” Cosette piped up, speaking through the spoonful of mashed potato she had already crammed into her mouth.

“I wouldn’t have put it so bluntly but I feel the same,” Jean chuckled.

Javert blushed and picked up his knife and fork. He didn’t think that he was required to try and explain the reality of his life, but he began to feel edgy again, anticipating the question that always came in the end. He stabbed at a carrot, trying to relax his shoulders and failing. There was a beat of silence, and then Jean spoke again.

“Cosette, tell Javert about your nativity. What happened to the king with the gold?”

Cosette had plenty of stories from her last few weeks at school, and she was very happy to have a new audience for them. Between her chatter and the best meal he had eaten in ages, Javert began to relax. He didn’t usually drink much, but Jean kept the wine topped up and it certainly made everything seem a little bit easier. 

After dinner, he insisted on helping with the clean-up, rinsing the dishes and stacking them by the dishwasher. The heat poured off Jean, who stood at his side. Jean was always warm, when Javert was always so cold. Javert could feel the warmth of Jean’s skin soaking through his shirt sleeve, and wished that he was wearing short sleeves too. 

“Thanks for coming,” Jean said suddenly, loading plates into the bottom rack of the dishwasher. “I know it must be hard.”

How he knew that, Javert still didn’t have worked out, but the wine had made him feel bolder and so he just smiled. 

“Thank you for inviting me. I have enjoyed it. Really.”

Jean’s smile was worth the effort. 

It was getting late by the time they went through to the lounge, with more glasses of wine and a hot chocolate for Cosette. She was laid out on the floor, turning the pages of a picture book. At her side was a small pile of things Javert could only imagine had been her presents, and he thought the moment was as good as any to offer his own. He didn’t know what the etiquette for such a thing was. 

Cosette’s eyes lit up as he came back into the room with his carefully wrapped parcels. The girl at the toy shop had done that for him too, and the paper she had picked out was covered in glitter that seemed to have shed in his rucksack. He’d be finding that for weeks. 

“Happy Christmas, Cosette,” he said, and held the parcels out awkwardly. “I – hope that you like them.”

“Javert, you didn’t have to,” Jean grinned, watching as Cosette tore into the paper. 

She squealed as she uncovered first the lion and then the wolf, casting the paper aside and hugging the animals close to her. 

“Thank you, Javert, thank you, thank you! Lions are my favourite!”

“I remembered,” Javert said, bowing his head. Jean reached over and squeezed his knee, and Javert fought the urge to put his hand over Jean’s. Cosette kissed the lion’s fuzzy mane and placed the toys gently on her pile so that she could go over to the tree and pick up a large envelope that was propped against the trunk. 

“I made this for you,” she said shyly, holding it out to Javert. He took it, aware that they were both watching him keenly, and pulled out a laminated drawing. Three little figures stood at the edge of what he recognised as the penguin enclosure at London Zoo. The smaller figure held the hands of the two larger ones, and a bright yellow sun shone overhead. Little black and white penguin dots filled the rest of the paper. 

“It’s lovely,” he said, his voice sticking in his throat. “This is one of the nicest presents I’ve ever received. Thank you, Cosette.”

“I did it all myself but Papa did the laminetting. Can we go to the zoo again one day?”

Once she was assured that they would, Cosette was content to drink her hot chocolate and then go to bed. Javert did not know how he felt when she went to her pile of new toys and only wanted to take the lion and the wolf to her room, but when she kissed him on the cheek, his chest felt full of something he could not describe, and he was glad that Jean took her upstairs and gave him a few minutes to compose himself. This should be too much, being here in this happy place. He did not deserve it, and yet here he was. 

When he came back, Jean flicked the TV on low to watch a carol service, then refilled their glasses with the end of the last bottle of wine. He sat down on the couch next to Javert, close enough that their legs were touching, and Javert clutched at his glass. 

“Do you have to work tomorrow?” Jean asked.

“No. I’m off till the 28th.”

“That’s good. I was worried about how much wine I’d plied you with.”

The carols played in the background and Javert fixed his eyes on the TV, trying to find the right thing to say. 

Jean beat him to it.

“I really appreciate you coming today, Javert. Christmas can be hard for us here. It was right around this time of year that Cosette came to me, you know. It brings up some bad memories for her. And for me, I suppose.”

“I understand. You seem to have guessed that – this time of year is hard for me too. There was a little boy today who hit a bit – close to home.”

Jean nodded sadly, his face soft in the firelight, and thank God he didn’t ask any questions. Javert had already said more than he had intended to.

“It can be so unbearably difficult,” Jean said, instead. “But we do bear it. We have to, for our own sakes and everyone else’s. I bear it for her. And you bear it for people like that little boy today. And I am glad that you are here. Never forget how glad I am.”

His voice was thick, and when he reached out to hold Javert’s hand, Javert clutched at him. He had to squeeze his eyes shut and force his tears back down his throat. Jean Valjean had already seen him cry too much, back on that godforsaken bridge in June. He didn’t need to see it here too. 

“Happy Christmas, Jean,” he muttered, when he could finally speak again. “And thank you. For it all.”

Remember when people used to write drabbles? 

I miss drabbles.

“What is Gavroche wearing?” Javert asked, peering into the buggy at the grinning baby.

“A teddy bear onesie,” Jean replied. “You can see the ears, right?”

“I can see the teddy bear onesie, Jean,” Javert said, rubbing a hand over his eyes. “I suppose a better question would be why is he wearing it?”

“Cosette picked it out. Do you not like it?”

Javert wasn’t sure whether to dignify that with an answer, and Jean’s grin was enough to let him know that he was being teased. He shrugged and manoeuvred the buggy out of the front door whilst Jean and Cosette broke into fits of laughter behind him. 

There was nothing he could do, after all, if they conspired to make the baby look a fool.

Hey guys, its been a while, huh?

“I don’t really watch cartoons.”

“Well, that’s too bad, because Cosette does. And its film night, and you’re here.”

Javert sighed and glanced up at a grinning Jean. He couldn’t help but feel he had been cornered a little and wanted to say so, but with Cosette beside him on the couch holding his hand, and Jean giving him that smile, maybe it wouldn’t be so bad. 

“Fine,” he sighed. “What are we watching?”

“Cosette’s favourite. The Land Before Time.”

“I’ve never heard of it.”

“Lots of cute dinosaurs but, most importantly, no singing. You might even like it.”

“I doubt it,” Javert muttered, watching Jean put the DVD in the player. But he didn’t say it too loudly, because Cosette was bouncing up and down beside him. 

“Papa says we can make popcorn, and have crisps! Will you come and help me?”

“Sure.”

Javert was far from an expert in making popcorn, but Cosette had definitely done it before. Whilst Jean made hot chocolate for three, Cosette showed Javert how to heat the oil and pour the grains in the pan. She lifted her arms for Javert to help her onto the counter, and he did so without thinking – and he only blushed momentarily when Jean grinned at him from across the room. 

When they finally settled in front of the TV, Cosette laid out at their feet with her own bowl of popcorn, Jean leaned over and put his lips to Javert’s ear. 

“By the way, this film always makes me cry.”

Javert shivered, and squeezed Jean’s hand. 

He decided that he would enjoy the fact he had been invited to film night, that Jean was curled up beside him, and that Cosette kept turning around to smile over her shoulder at him. He was not going to enjoy the cartoon, no matter what Jean said. 

Apart from – it wasn’t terrible. It really wasn’t. Jean had promised no singing and there wasn’t. Javert wasn’t sure if he could judge if the dinosaurs were cute or not, but they were bearable. 

And then the mother died, and Javert felt his breath catch in his chest. The little dinosaur begged her to stay awake, to stay with him, and Javert closed his eyes. Had he begged his mother to stay awake, the night he found her on that sofa? He wasn’t sure he remembered. He’d never wanted to remember. 

He forced a breath that came out like a gasp, and felt his chest squeeze. To his absolute disgust, he felt hot tears gather at the sides of his eyes, and he reached up to scrub them away. 

A warm hand grabbed his, and he gritted his teeth. 

“Javert? It’s alright.”

Reluctantly, his face burning with embarrassment, Javert opened his eyes. Jean was there, gripping his hand, and he had tears in his own eyes. 

“Yeah, this is the bit that always gets me too,” he said softly. “You okay?”

Before he could answer, Cosette clambered to her feet and wriggled in between them on the sofa. She put her small head on Javert’s shoulder. 

“Would it make you feel better to have some more marshmallows on your hot chocolate?” she asked sweetly. “It always makes me feel better.”

It was so unexpected a question that Javert laughed, and then Jean laughed too, and the tears were, thank God, forgotten. 

“Alright, alright,” Jean said, getting to his feet. “I get the hint.”

Oh hey, everyone. Been a while, huh?

This chapter has warnings for language, drug use and implied/past child neglect and abuse. SUPER CHRISTMASSY, RIGHT? XD 

There's also the usual disgusting amount of fluff that you'd expect from this AU though.

“If they don’t get here in two minutes, I’m kicking this door down.”

Javert felt the eyes of his colleague on him as he spoke, but he didn’t look away like he might have done once when he’d revealed just a little bit too much of himself. He didn’t do that quite so much anymore - hide. Not all the time anyway. 

Jean had changed him. 

“You heard the chief,” Barnard said. “Wait for SWAT, don’t do anything stupid.”


Stupid.


Javert had never been accused of being stupid before. And yet here they were, hiding around the corner from a house stuffed to the gunnels with guns and drugs and stolen goods and - to Javert’s horror - kids. The people who ran the gang had at least two, although the neighbours couldn’t be sure there weren’t more of them tucked away inside. None of the kids got outside much. 

Javert and Barnard had been working this case for months and they’d never seen a kid either. Didn’t mean that Javert wasn’t just about ready to blow the whole thing if it meant they could get them out of there. He’d been patient long enough. 

Thankfully, at that moment, SWAT pulled up, and the captain jumped out of the van. Javert let Barnard deal with him; he’d only ask them what the fuck other important thing they were doing at 5am that made them late. 

Instead he watched the house keenly for any movement, the slightest twitch of the curtain that meant someone had figured out the plan and was about to bolt. Or, as Javert feared the most, one of the kids being used as leverage. He wouldn’t put it past this lot.

“Okay,” Barnard muttered, appearing at Javert’s side. “We’re ready to go.”

“Finally,” Javert growled, and clicked the clips on his bulletproof vest closed. 

Then it was a blur, as raids often were. SWAT fanned out around the house, the countdown came over the radio, and there was a burst of noise as they pounded on the door.

Javert was at the back, behind the armoured guys, and he could already hear children screaming. He clenched his fists, shook Barnard’s hand off his shoulder and let SWAT lead the way.

The house stank of pot and cigarette smoke, and the first occupant they found was a twenty something man, dressed only in boxers, who grinned at them in a drugged haze from the sofa. 

SWAT were already crashing about upstairs, shouting, and then - finally - came the all important clear signal.

Javert ran up the stairs, following the crying to where a SWAT guy was on his knees talking to a small child. It was hard to tell what it was, a boy or a girl, but that hardly mattered. The child was backing away from the heavily armoured man, scared of the look of him.

“I’ll take it from here,” Javert said, his voice gruff as he tried to get a grip on himself. The last thing these kids needed was for him to start having flashbacks.

“It’s okay,” he said, using the voice Cosette had patiently trained into him. “We’re here to help.”

The child looked up at him suspiciously from under a ragged fringe, then carefully took the hand he offered to lead him into the room. Under the window was a single bed in which a smaller child was curled, sobbing. And in a cot on the other side of the room was a baby - a baby so small that when Javert reached in to pick it up, it rested almost in one hand. He clumsily tucked the baby into the crook of his arm, aware of the children watching him. 

“That’s Gavroche,” the oldest whispered. “I’m Eponine. And this is Amelza.”

“I’m Javert,” he said, sinking down onto the bed so he could look Eponine in the eye. “And you don’t need to be afraid anymore.”

**

Javert took the kids in his car to the station, and settled them in the break room with some biscuits. The girls huddled together on the sofa, nibbled their biscuits, gave him watery smiles. He thought of Cosette, of how Jean had once broken down telling him about her life before, and he thought he might understand that better than ever now. They were starving, that much was clear, and when Eponine handed Amelza her share of the food, something snapped. Javert tipped the entire jar of biscuits onto the table in front of them.

“Eat them all,” he said around the lump in his throat. “Eat them all.”

Gavroche, who had been asleep in a carrier that the house had miraculously dredged up, chose that moment to wake and start screaming. Javert jumped half out of his skin, fumbling with the buckles. The baby was so small. 

“Eponine, how old is your brother?”

“He is brand new. Mummy brought him him home at Halloween.”


Less than two months.


“He’s hungry,” she said. “Mummy makes bottles.”

Eponine was seven years old and vastly more competent than Javert. Holding the baby in one arm, Javert yelled into the corridor. 

“Someone get to Tesco and get a bottle and some formula now!”

When he turned back into the room, bouncing the baby, Eponine was watching him, satisfied. He paced the length of the room, shushing, and he waited. Eponine and Amelza were asleep in minutes, despite the wailing. Javert couldn’t look at them like that. They were too like Cosette, too like - too like things he didn’t want to remember. So he paced and the formula wasn’t too long in appearing. 

And neither was the social services. 

“There’s a grandmother desperate to take the girls,” the woman told Javert. “But she is too old to take the baby. She won’t be able to cope. He’ll have to go into care.”

Javert nodded, looking down at the sleeping baby. Thinking of Jean and Cosette and the happy, happy house that Javert had somehow - miraculously - become a part of. And he had another thought. 

“I know someone who is a registered foster carer,” he said. “He adopted his little girl but he’s still on the books.”

The social worker looked at him, a smile playing over her lips.

“And how do you know his man?”

“He’s uh - my partner,” Javert said, watching for a flash of anything he didn’t like to cross the woman’s face, but instead there was only a wider smile. 

“I see,” she said. “Tell me his name, and I’ll make some phone calls. I can’t make any promises, but I can try.”

“Jean,” Javert said, his chest flooding with relief. “Jean Valjean.”

**

Shopping for a baby four days before Christmas was a nightmare. 

Jean, of course, was in his element. 

“I’m sorry about this,” Javert said, as they crossed the packed car park to Mothercare. He was wearing a sling across his chest that Jean had fashioned for him, Gavroche tucked inside it. He felt vaguely self conscious about it, but Jean would need his hands for the actual work, and they didn’t even have a pram yet. At least everyone seemed to be too busy in their Christmas rush to pay much attention to them. 

“Mothercare is a silly name,” Cosette announced, from where she was skipping at Jean’s side. “What if you don’t have a mummy? Like me and Gavroche?”

The speed with which Cosette had accepted the baby into the family was breathtaking. 

“I know,” Jean said, rolling his eyes to make her laugh. “But it is the one place that will have everything we need.”

Against Javert’s chest, Gavroche shifted inside his swaddle - another thing Jean had learned from the internet - and Javert put a hand up to hold him. 

“Hey, you okay?” Jean asked, slipping a hand into his. “Not too much is it? You could stay in the car.”

Javert shook his head, squeezed Jean’s hand. Bloody typical that he’d be the one to bring this disruption into their lives and then be having doubts about it. Jean kissed his shoulder, eyes soft. 

“Okay then. Let’s go.”

Javert followed Jean and Cosette, carrying the basket that they filled. And then the second basket when the first one got filled up. Babies needed a lot of things, and Jean had none of them. Cosette had been much older than Gavroche when she had come to him. 

Much to Javert’s horror, they spent the longest amongst the baby clothes. He found a stretch of wall sandwiched between two mirrors and leaned against it as Jean and Cosette flitted amongst the racks. Javert could see over almost every head in the shop, and Jean was easy to spot with that ridiculously bouncy walk of his. 

Cosette burst out of the nearest rack, her hands full, and almost knocked Javert over. 

“Look, Daddy - Papa said we can get Gavroche a Christmas outfit!”

In the pile she dumped in the basket, sensible plain coloured clothes, Javert spotted a pair of red and green striped trousers. Cosette plucked it out to reveal a little elf suit, red and green, with a cap attached to it by a string. The cap had a bell on the end of it. 

Javert didn’t know what he looked like, but Cosette cackled. 

“Papa said you’d say that.”

“I didn’t say anything.”

“Your face did!”

**

Javert woke early to the sound of Gavroche shifting in his crib, and swept him up in his arms before he could start crying. Jean had been up in the night feeding him, and he was curled up tightly now, snoring into his pillow.

“Come on, young man,” Javert murmured. “Time for breakfast.”

It was quiet, too early even for Cosette to be up and into her presents. Javert flicked the kettle on for formula and coffee - although not both together - and paced the kitchen. Gavroche was gazing up at him, pale eyes fixed on his face, and Javert gazed back. It still felt surreal. A baby, in his arms. A baby he’d insisted on taking home with him. To a home where he had a partner who, somehow, loved him and a daughter who loved him too. 

“What are we going to do with you, huh?” he asked, as he prepared the bottle with one hand. 

Gavroche yawned. 

“Fair enough. I’ll just make some coffee and then we can sit down.”

Talking to a baby. It was crazy, but Jean had been doing it for a week now and so Javert copied, because God knew he had no idea what he was doing. 

In the lounge, Javert flicked on the Christmas tree lights, eyeing the stuffed stockings hanging over the fireplace. Jean had been hard at work the night before, wrapping each tiny individual present - even the ones for the baby. 

“Gavroche won’t be able to open them, you know,” Javert had said, watching the news over Jean’s head. 

“He won’t,” Jean agreed. “But Cosette will be more than willing to help him. And we can’t have a lazy Father Christmas, can we?”

“I don’t think anyone can accuse this house’s Father Christmas of being lazy,” Javert said. 

Jean grinned and shuffled over to the sofa on his knees, pulling himself up to press a kiss to Javert’s lips.

“You’ll crush the baby,” Javert said dryly. “Then all the effort will be wasted.”

“Oh shut up,” Jean murmured. “And kiss me properly.”

Perhaps Javert nodded off holding the bottle to Gavroche’s mouth, lost in the memory of the night before, because the next thing he knew Cosette was leaping down the stairs and crashing into the living room.

“Daddy! Father Christmas came!”

“So it seems.” Javert nodded, shifting Gavroche up to his shoulder and rubbing his back. 

“Can I open my stocking?”

“Go and wake Papa up first. Gavroche kept him up last night.”

Cosette laughed, a delighted and dizzy laugh, then raced across the room to kiss Javert’s cheek and the back of Gavroche’s head. 

“Will you help me make him coffee?”

“Of course, sweetheart.”

Christmas was much easier to bear. 

These days.