Title: Stars-upon-Sea
Work ID: 34231951
Author: Tolpen
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Fantine & Javert
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Star Trek Fusion, Tags Contain Spoilers, Fantine Lives, Background Relationships, Minor Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy, BAMF Cosette Fauchelevent, Vulcan Javert, Chronic Illness, Near Death Experiences, Pre-Relationship, Monreil-sur-Mer era, IN SPACE!, No beta we die like red shirt, Android Valjean
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

For the reader to understand how the reverence of kindness and mercy deeply affected the genius engineer of Charles Francois Myriel – also known as Dr. Salvereterra, a play on the Human name Salvador and the phenomenon of him being the first exposure of Earth to most students of android engineering, thus being their “welcome to Earth” as his colleagues often joked – the reader of this document should be made aware of the events that have transpired on station Deep Space 246-01 in the year 2264.

 

Deep Space 246 was a station originally built in five independent pieces in the orbit of Serenity Alpha, a Human-Romulan deep space colony planet which was referred to in reports and the database of the United Federation of Planets under the abbreviation SE-A, and it was a megastructure so large that viewed from the planet's surface the many lights in the shadows of the spacestation, which grew up to be 16 units in total, seemed as a night sky. The colonists lovingly nicknamed Deep Space 246 as Stars Above Serenity Alpha.

Serenity Alpha, however, met its end in 2196 due to the combination of change in gravity caused by Deep Space 246, heavy tectonic activity SE-A was infamous for, and a sudden shift in its magnetic field which researches struggle to explain until today. The planet was quite literally torn to pieces, although 96 % of the colonists survived this cataclysm as they were evacuated off the surface in time. Serenity Alpha was swiftly forgotten as an unfortunate accident, and by the half of the 23rd century most of the crewmen stationed at Stars Upon Sea (Deep Space 246-01 to 246-16) were unable to explain where the station's name came from.

 

Stardate 311298.3

The communicator whistles. “Dock bay 4 to Chief of Security. An emergency situation requires your presence. Acknowledge.”

“Acknowledged.” J'ver suppresses a sigh. He is already aware of the situation. The lift is already taking him to dock bay number four where the hydraulic gate has malfunctioned. Officer J'ver's delay is caused by having to repeat his demand to the engineering deck for a phase compensator so the gate can be powered down before it can be repaired.

What J'ver has not been informed about is that the Engineer Deputy Officer responsible for issuing engineering tools that day is Fauchevelent, and Fauchevelent went at 0700 to dock bay 4 at a colleagues request, because the oil dispenser in corridor 2 malfunctioned again and the crewmen found themselves in need of an absorbic tool, preferably one with a long handle.

When J'ver arrives in the dock bay, Engineer Deputy Officer Fauchevelent is trapped in the malfunctioning gate which has turned into a hydraulic press. The only reason Fauchevelent is not a wet oily smear between two plates of hardened titanium alloy is that he nearly religiously insists on wearing his outer-service vest at all times, mostly because it keeps his torso nicely shaped even at his advanced age. Now it also keeps his torso nicely shaped, but instead of preventing a round belly, it prevents flat everything.

By J'ver's calculations the vest will be able to endure the stress for additional five minutes sixteen seconds.

“Have you sent for a pulse trig?” he asks into the air, eyes fixed on squirming Fauchevelent.

“Yes, sir,” a yeoman informs him. “It will be delivered in six minutes.”

“That is too late for Deputy Officer there.”

“Yes sir. We all hope for a faster delivery, of course, sir.”

“J'ver! What's the situation?”

J'ver turns around, face decidedly neutral. He does not allow himself any feeling of relief. “Captain Val, hydraulic gates number 3, 4 and 5 have malfunctioned, fault in automation circuit suspected. Gates 3 and 4 are under repair. Gate five cannot be powered off without the force killing Engineer Deputy Officer Fauchevelent.”

Fauchevelent waves with a cheerful smile, his face glistening with sweat, chest labouring for every next breath: “G'morning, sir! Beautiful weather we are having, right?”

“He is hysterical,” J'ver dimisses it. “Rescue machinery is on the way, but it will not get here in time by all calculations. Orders, Captain?”

“Get Fauchevelent out of there before he becomes a meaty pancake!”

“Sir, those are two titanium alloy plates powered by 63000 megawatt-”

But Captain Jean Val is not listening to his Chief of Security, he is already approaching the gate. He is planning to push the gate open by bare hands. That is going to be a futile attempt, as J'ver, three times stronger than human and actively physically training at the time, would not be able to make the gate move any unit of distance measurement.

Val wedges himself between the two gate-plates, his back against one, arms and feet against the other. He pushes.

A terrible screech of straining metal echoes through the dock bay. The gate moves. Val's teeth are gritted and he is shaking from the effort. He pushes again, winning a centimetre.

J'ver rushes over in attempt to help, but he could be throwing replicated boiled noodles at the titanium alloy and reach the same result.

The added width is not enough for Fauchevelent to break free, and Captain Val's strength does not last forever. Now the gate is closing on two men instead of one, one of them being the captain of the space station.

Still, Val's won precious time, enough for the pulse trig to get to the dock bay and force the gate open. The cheering is deafening when the two men are freed from what was supposed to be their certain demise by squishing. J'ver would excuse himself to avoid a possible sensory overload, but his duty has him to escort the Captain and the Engineer Deputy Officer to the sick bay. Fauchevelent needs medical attention and rest, Captain Val has to go through a medical checkup after a such physically challenging time despite not sustaining any visible injuries.

 

Stardate 311298.5

The good doctor deems Val to be sound of body and health after a quick scan, though she does recommend a visit to a psychologist after the near death experience. J'ver knows that his Captain has said “Of course” out of pure politeness and has already dismissed the idea. Captain Val should be remain under observation for the following 50 hours at least, though, so J'ver concludes that for that unit of time he shall accompany him unless his duties call him off.

“The way you hover over me,” Val smiles softly, “one would think that doctor Fan-Tin had you assigned to be as a nurse.”

“I am not a nurse, Captain, I am your Chief of Security. I am personally responsible for the safety of this space station and everyone on it. Including you, Captain.”

“I know, J'ver, I know.” Val pats him on the shoulder. “I wouldn't entrust our lives to just anybody. I am grateful to have you here.” And then with a great concern he adds: “Are you alright?”

Vulcans are natural touch-telepath. That is fact that is so videly known in the Federation that most people do not think about it most of the time and when they do entertain that thought, it is because they need to probe someone's barin and recall they had seen a pointy-eared logically acting person recently. More often than not they completely disergard the ethics of it, or even the casual consequences.

In their youth all Vulcans undergo heavy training in honing ther telepathic abilities, among them the skill of creating mental shields. The shields protectits creator minimally, though, and they are made to prevent their mind from assaulting others by an accident in close proximity, which is especially necessary when sharing living space with non-Vulcans. To a Vulcan even the brifest touch is a strong sesory input even through clothes, which would find a counterpart for human hearing in a hunting horn blown right next to one's ear, or sharing a shuttlecraft flight with a score of hysterical infants.

When Captain Val patted J'ver on the shoulder, the Chief of Security froze in place. The Captain inquiry about J'ver's wellbeing is only natural, as he belatedly recalls that Vulcans are not to be touched, and he hopes he hasn't caused J'ver any extreme distress.

Here is what J'ver felt through the momentarily touch: Nothing.

He has braced himself for a range of emotion; fear, anger, concern, amusement, but he's met none of them. Like a man swinging his hand against an expected resistane and meeting none, J'ver stumbles through the emptiness. Only after a moment he recollects himself enough to speak: “Captain, remind me, how long am I in your service?”

“Two years. Why is it-”

“I shall now retire to my quarters to meditate. I will send your yeoman to assist you with anything you need. ” J'ver sees himself out. None of the crewmen he meets on his way comment on the scowl he is sporting, because they do not consider it unusual. They know nothing about how unusual the situation has just become.

 

Stardate 311298.9

Meditation does nothing to soothe J'ver's mind. He has reached to several logical conlusions, and additional illogical ones. He does not like any one of them. He decides to seek another source of information which hopefully would narrow the possibilities down.

Chief Doctor Fan-Tin regards him with a stoic face J'ver's own father would be proud of, had he ever let himself feel such a thing as pride. Or anything at all.

«You are not the first wide-eyed raving Vulcan to fall into my office with absurd demands in the dead of the night, but I was not expecting your pon farr for another three years.»

“Put my sexual urges aside, doctor. I have requested the Captain's medical file and I have the clearance to see it.”

«Why?»

“I am concerned for his health.”

Fan-Tin's types with poorly veiled anger: «That is my job.»

“I officially request to see the file because of the concern regarding the safety of this station due to health condition of its Captain. If you are denying it to me,” J'ver clicks his tongue and pushes aside his frustration, “I demand to know your reasoning.”

For a long there is tense silence in the room pronounced by Fauchevelent snoring in the other room, and Chief Doctor Fan-Tin's own external lungs heavily whirring. After a moment her hand moves; she takes a purple record table from her desk and hesitantly hands it to J'ver. He takes it.

«I allow this because I believe your concern is true and you do not have malicious motives and any ill-wishes towards the Captain.»

J'ver does not tell her that he himself would like to know what motives he has. He only knows that whatever it is that is going on in here, he si going to get to the bottom of it whether he likes it or not.

 

Stardate 311300.1

J'ver is experiencing an emotion. He is not sure what its name is, but he does not like it.

What he likes even less, though, is that he has to contact the Admiral of the Starfleet.

Confidentality is of utmost importance, J'ver requests a meeting and does not trust the communication channels to relay this message. He also requests four free days from Captain Val.

“Naturally, J'ver! Nobody can't say you don't deserve them. I hope you have a good rest, whatever it is you have planned for the time, enjoy it!”

J'ver promptly experiences another emotion. Guilt. Technically speaking he is not plotting against the Captain behind his back. He is doing it nearly in his face!

He also requests a shuttle. He gets it along with Junior Navigator-in-training Kos-Set, who has it ready within five minutes and takes him out of Stars Upon Sea without another word.

 

Stardate 311300.5

“I've talked to mum, you know,” Kos-Set informs him.

J'ver is unsure where this conversation is going to lead. He would prefer to completely avoid it. “Maintaining communication with between parents and their offsprings is advisable for humans to maintain good relationships and tehrefore efficient cooperation of society.”

She turns in her chair to face him, piloting the shuttlecraft more of as an afterthought. “This whole vacation trip you are taking to the seat of admirality, it wouldn't have to do anything with you requesting Captain Val's medical record, would it?”

“What is your point?”

She lets go off the steering completely and crosses her arms with a pout: “The Captain is a good guy. And I am not saying that because he saved my mum's life and got me to the Starfleet. Well, I am saying it because of that too, but he did that because he is a good guy. So if you, Inspector J'ver, turn out to be a back-stabbing bitch, you should know I don't like back-stabbing bitches enough to sverve this thing into the closest sun. Which is, hang on-”

J'ver makes a show of suppressing an eyeroll. “I am not attempting to bring any harm to the Captain, Navigator Kos-Set.”

She preens – she is not a full fledged Navigator yet, but that J'ver addressed her as such pleases her. Kos-Set respects J'ver's assessment of people and things. Nevertheless, she doesn't let herself to be honey-word bribed into unquestioning compliance; she believes her cause to be just and she follows it through until she prevails or is proved wrong. J'ver respects Kos-Set in turn.

“What is this about, Mr. J'ver?” she asks him after a moment of intense staring at each other.

J'ver gives her the speech he's got prepared for the Admiral. Kos-Set gives him her legendary left hook. She, however, does not swerve the shuttle into a star.

 

Stardate 311301.3

The duty-bound Admiral visits J'ver in the infirmary, where the Vulcan was admitted immediately upon arriving to the planet with nasal bleeding, and the whole time the Junior Navigator-in-training, Kos-Set, whose knuckles are bruised, is present.

The Admiral has offered to dismiss her for confidentiality, but J'ver shakes his head: “No point in that, sir.”

J'ver gives a short speech: curt, objective, supported by evidence brought on a record. The duty-bound Admiral has worked with Vulcans before, a J'ver hasn't been among his own for a very long time. The Admiral is excellent in reading subtleties, and J'ver slips often, for a Vulcan.

“You hold Captain Jean Val in high regards,” the duty-bound Admiral concludes when the man finishes talking.

J'ver nods. “That I do, Admiral.”

“Even after this... rather scandalous and unsettling revelation?”

J'ver closes his eyes for a moment. It is something he's been coming to terms ever since Kos-Set assaulted him in the shuttle. In a manner of speaking it was a shock therapy, a moment of her perspective and his own physical pain which made him think and forced him to put abstract ideas, ones he's been pushing aside for very long, into precise words, each cut out into exact shape. He sighs, and speaks as calmly as he always does: “Captain Val has served the Starfleet reliably for many years. His command of SE-A 246 is according to all reports and my inside observations excellent by human standards. His handling of the crew and the civilians is entirely humane. These are objective facts that do not change with the knowledge that Captain Val is an android.”

A moment of thoughtful silence. After a while Kos-Set asks: “The question is – who made him?”

“I find that question unnecessary,” J'ver shakes his head. “He's experienced damage before, our Chief Doctor has been always able to bring him back to full health.”

“Mr. J'ver, if you regard this... his state of being, the fact that he is not even a living being, as an unimportant detail, then pray tell, why have you went all the way out to me to inform me of this?”

“It is not a detail lacking importance in its entirety. It is simply irrelevant regarding the efficient functioning of the deep space station,” J'ver shrugs. “However, the impacts into various fields of studies, mainly philosophy, could potentially be great for the whole Federation.”

Kos-Set snorts: “Like the eternal question if androids dream of electric sheep? Or how many robots could dance on the head of a pin? Or better yet – create the world anew in love and compassion?”

“Your references to works of misters Dick, Daarok and Čapek have been noted. I will inform the Chief Doctor of your progress in the education of classics.”

“Don't you dare to rat me out like that, J'ver,” she hisses at him. “Don't you dare to tell mum I like the old fictions. She won't believe you anyway, everyone knows you hate reading.”

The duty-bound admiral politely clears his throat to remind them of his presence: “Very well then, Mr. J'ver, Junior Navigator-in-training Kos-Set. I will consider the... fact you have brought me and your testimonies which all have been recorded. But before you go, tell me J'ver: Do you believe that an android like Captain Val could have a soul?”

J'ver ponders it for the longest of moments. He realises that he would not answer only for himself, and that thought makes him uncomfortable. He loathes to lie, so he does not. Instead he says: “Whatever I believe has no impact on what Captain Val has or has not have, Admiral.”

 

Stardate 311304.8

“J'ver.”

The Chief of Security has been avoiding this confrontation for quite some time. But now Captain Val has entered his quarters when he was meditating. He keeps his eyes closed when he says: “Yes, Captain?”

“I have just gotten a message from the Admirality.”

“I was not aware that your private correspondence is my concern.”

“Neither is my medical record for that matter. Don't give me that face, Fan-Tin busted you basically five minutes after the fact.”

J'ver is not making any facial expression. But he opens his eyes and shifts his legs to kneel on his bed more comfortably. “Please, to maintain the decorum, sit down, Captain.”

Jean Val sits down. He is fidgeting with the hemming of his sleeves. His breath hitches. “I- J'ver, you need to- It isn't what it- I mean I-” He catches the weathered look J'ver gives him and stops. Then he tries again: “I am grateful for what you did. That you told Admiral Chaboulliet, I mean. I... I should have done it myself, but I did not have the courage. I was afraid of what would happen.”

J'ver's eyebrows rise quizzically: “I was expecting you to be angered.”

“You were expecting an emotional reaction? From, well, from me?”

“My observations have brought that you exhibit emotions.”

“Do I? Are you sure I don't simply pretend to?”

A shrug. “Does it matter?”

“I... I suppose you are right,” Val smiles weakly.

“Is this all, Captain?” J'ver would like to return to his meditation. He needs some downtime to relax and order his thoughts.

“No, no. The Admirality, they secured me a meeting with Charles Francois Myriel. I- I wanted to ask you... Would you honour me to come along?”

“Of course, Captain,” J'ver nods without hesitation. He is relieved greatly in that moment. “Only one question: Who is Mr. Myriel?”

Jean Val looks down and the smiles on his face is nothing short of sheepish: “My creator.”

 

Stardate 311304.9

Junior Navigator (no longer in training!) Kos-Set: “Marius! I am here to get you to the sick bay!”

Mr. Marius straightens his blue uniform to look his best, and weakly protests: “But I am sound of both body and mind.”

“I don't care. This is our third date, so you are going to meet the Chief Mum. It's traditional, I'll have you know.”

The lad tries to make himself look a bit more presentable, a task more difficult for the fact that his latest work blew most of his eyebrows off, or rather the work of his colleague and roommate. He attempts to distract himself by making a casual conversation: “I've heard you had a vacation. How was it?”

“Great. I broke J'ver's nose and gave him some book recommendations.”

“Is he going to read them?”

“Probably. Get your butt moving, the Chief Doctor hasn't got the whole night, you know.”

“Yes, madam, right away, madam.”