Title: Talons And Tea Leaves
Work ID: 36794659
Author: Dark_Eyed_Panda', 'Haewelmann
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Combeferre/Courfeyrac (Les Misérables), Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Feuilly/Jean Prouvaire
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Hogwarts, Alternate Universe - Harry Potter Setting, Case Fic, Slow Burn, Les Amis de l'ABC - Freeform, Asexual Enjolras (Les Misérables), Javert's Confused Boner, Auror Javert, Jean Valjean is a Good Dad, Cosette is an angel, Background Combeferre/Courfeyrac (Les Misérables), Plot, Background Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier - Freeform, References to Canon, BAMF Éponine (Les Misérables), Literally every character in Les Mis, Awkward Flirting
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 8/14

Auror Javert arrives at Hogwarts.

On the first day of September at 10.45 am, Auror Javert, carrying nothing but a small black leather suitcase, arrived punctually at King’s Cross Station. He made his way straight towards the barrier between platforms 9 and 10 and suppressed the urge to roll his eyes when he saw a group of people, presumably a family, gathered in front of it already. The two children both had trolleys packed with luggage, and the older one, a boy of about 16 years, went through the barrier first. The girl looked much younger − she was probably a first-year − and seemed a bit scared of the idea of running full speed towards a brick wall. While her parents tried to encourage her, Javert took the opportunity to walk past them and cross the barrier himself, only to find himself surrounded by a huge horde of young witches and wizards, their families and their pets again. A cat sprinted across the platform, startling several people. Hundreds of children were chattering, bickering and laughing and all in all being revoltingly loud.

Platform 9¾. It had been a long time, a timespan that felt like a lifetime, since he’d last been here. Javert looked at the same old steaming engine of the Hogwarts Express and decided that he indeed hadn’t missed  any  of this.

He quickly weaved his way through the crowd, leaving animals, children and their respective hopelessly and appallingly sentimental guardians behind and boarded the train. He was pleasantly surprised when he found a still vacant compartment. Closing the door behind him, he finally felt that a bit of peace and tranquility had returned to the world. Only the occasional bump or muffled voice outside reminded him of the fact that he was very much not in his usually preferred solitude. He put his suitcase on the luggage rack and sat down.

At 11 o’clock sharp, the engines hissed and the Hogwarts Express started moving. Javert had already taken out several reports folders and a quill, planning to do some paperwork to distract himself from an overly long trip in a train full of noisy children. But since he hated paperwork, it didn’t quite manage to distract him. On the contrary, if he even so much as glanced at the stacks of paper in front of him, he felt bored out of his mind and a slight throbbing began to build at his temples.

Just when he was about to stuff everything back into his suitcase, there was a light knock on the door.

 In Merlin’s name, no,  Javert thought.

“Excuse me, are there still seats left in this compartment?” A girl’s voice followed the knock.

Javert looked around his empty compartment.

 No, there are no seats left,  get lost, was what he was going to say.

“Yes, there are five vacant seats,” was what he said instead.

“May we come in, Monsieur?” The girl asked again.

 We?  Javert lifted one eyebrow. He resisted the urge to cast a  Colloportus  at the door.

But before he could open his mouth again or cast any spell, the door was pulled open and Javert saw three children standing in the corridor. The girl who opened the door looked about 13 years old, was tall for her age and had a head of wild black locks. She wore a dusty, washed out robe and held a pet rat in her hand. The small boy standing behind her was obviously her little brother. He was clad in the same kind of hand-me-down outfit and had a mischievous grin on his round face that vaguely reminded Javert of someone he’d seen before somewhere and didn’t find exactly reassuring. Next to them there was a skinny, timid looking brunette girl. Her hair was neatly combed into a braid and she wore a warm grey wool sweater and a pair of black trousers. She had a book in her arms, one closer look and Javert noted it was  The Standard Book of Spells, Grade 3. Javert surmised that both girls were probably third-years, and the boy − judging by that almost mad excitement in his face − most likely a first-year.

“Sorry for the disturbance, Monsieur, but there weren't any other seats left on the train,” the brunette girl said, shifting a bit uncomfortably on her feet.

Javert said nothing but simply nodded and his eyes darted back to his own paperwork again, finding it immensely interesting all of a sudden. Or at least suitable enough to feign interest in, just in case one of the children should even  think  about trying to talk to him.

The children took the seats opposite of Javert and the compartment suddenly felt terribly crowded.

“Are you a professor, Monsieur?” The boy asked and Javert felt validated in all his worst fears.

“Yes,” he replied without looking up, “I will be teaching N.E.W.T.-level DADA this year.”

“That's so cool!” exclaimed the boy. “What do you do in class? Are there any spells you can show us?”

“That's not possible,” said Javert. “You will need to have passed your O.W.L.s to attend my classes, which I'm very sure none of you have.”

“Gavroche, just shut up,” said the boy's sister, rolling her eyes. She dropped the rat on his lap. “Look after Jondrette, will you?”

“But I don’t want to!” Gavroche complained loudly. “He’s your rat, not mine. I don’t like him anyways, his name is stupid. I told you, you should’ve called him Don Alvarès.”

Javert was incredibly close to just drawing his wand and casting a silencing charm on that kid. He had to tell himself that it was just a couple of hours he had to endure in their company and after that these brats would be none of his business anyway.

“Shush, Gavroche,” the brunette girl laid her hand on Gavroche’s shoulder and said in a gentle tone. “I’m sure Professor, um,” she stopped and looked at him inquiringly.

“Javert,” Javert said, cringing internally at the honorific.

“I’m sure Professor Javert is trying to work. We shouldn't disturb him.”

Javert, with all his faux-attention still fixed on his reports, raised one eyebrow in slight astonishment. It was rare for teenagers to have any kind of common sense.

And the girl’s words worked like magic, for Gavroche fell silent, only shuffling around in his seat a bit, contenting himself with looking out of the window and poking his sister’s rat from time to time.

But unfortunately this hint of calm didn’t last for too long, because just a couple of minutes later, the door was pushed open again.

“Anything off the trolley, dears?” The Trolley Witch asked. Javert shot a glance at her and noticed it was the same witch that pushed the Honeydukes Express back in his schooldays. She hadn’t aged a day.

“Merlin, yes!” Gavroche jumped up to inspect the cart thoroughly. “Can I have a chocolate frog? And Bertie Bott’s Every Flavour Beans? And Drooble’s Best Blowing Gum?”

“Gavroche, we only have one Sickle,” said his sister.

“Don’t worry, I’ll buy some and we can share,” the other girl said before she turned towards the Trolley Witch. “I’d like to have three pieces of everything, thank you.”

She handed the witch a handful of Sickles and received a huge amount of sweets in return. Javert closed his folder. The last thing he wanted was a chocolate frog jumping onto his report sheet leaving messy chocolate marks all over it. He knew from experience that there was only one thing more unappealing than unfinished paperwork, and that was unfinished paperwork with creases and food stains.

The children started munching away on the sweets. Gavroche opened a bag of Bertie Bott’s Every Flavour Beans and was fascinated even or better especially by the gross flavours like dirt and earwax, as he made it very clear whenever he came across one of those.

Javert must have looked less intimidating and more lost than he thought because when he stopped writing and started looking at the scenery through the window, the brunette girl suddenly asked him shyly if he wanted any of the sweets.

“No,” Javert answered curtly and looking back at the drab meadows and dreary willows outside, didn’t utter a single word more.

 

Javert strode out of the wagon the moment the train opened its doors at Hogsmeade station and made his way to the coaches. He then heard someone calling his name from behind and turned to discover it was Professor Bienvenu, the Headmaster of Hogwarts. Professor Bienvenu was a short, plump old man with soft, gentle features. His white hair shone even in the dim light of the evening.

“Professor Javert,” he said merrily, tilting his head up to look at Javert who was much taller, “it’s so good to see you. I hope you had a pleasant journey?”

“Just ‘Javert’ would be fine, Headmaster. I’m not used to the ‘Professor’ title,” Javert answered rather uncomfortably. He didn’t feel as bothered when the children back on the train called him that, but hearing Professor Bienvenu, whom he’d known as Headmaster ever since he’d been a student himself over twenty years ago, bestow that honorific onto him felt more than strange. He was no professor anyways. This was just a temporary arrangement that hopefully was going to end as soon as possible. “And the journey left much to be desired, I dare say. The children in my compartment were rather… loud. It made it difficult for me to get my work done.”

They boarded a coach together.

“Oh but you could’ve come to the staff’s compartment, surely we’d have enjoyed your company, Professor Javert,” Professor Bienvenu said, simply ignoring his first request, a kind twinkle in his eyes.

“There’s a staff’s compartment?” Javert blinked, unable to believe his ears. He had only taken the Hogwarts Express as a student so far, so he relied solely on his memory and apparently walked right into hell.

“Well of course,” Professor Bienvenu smiled, “but I have to say, Professor Javert, that you are working too hard. The next time you should simply enjoy the ride. The Scottish scenery is always a marvelous sight.”

“Not at all, I had to get some paperwork done that I had previously neglected,” Javert insisted, pointedly disregarding the Headmaster’s comment on the Scottish scenery. “Well, I’ll have to finish it tonight after the Welcoming Feast.”

“Do as you wish, my friend. But do remember to get enough sleep,” Professor Bienvenu said right as they passed the entrance gates.

Javert hummed noncommittally as a response and they spent the rest of the ride in comfortable silence.

When they arrived the Great Hall was already half-full with students and more of them were rushing in every moment. Hundreds of candles floated in the air, and Javert noticed that the ceiling was showing the Alpha Aurigid meteor shower. Professor Bienvenu patted Javert’s back before he went to his seat in the middle of the long table facing the students. Javert sat down at the very edge of the High Table and tried his best to avoid eye contact with any and all living things in the hall.

Soon, after everyone had taken their seats and only a steady but not obnoxiously loud chattering sounded in the room, the doors on the opposite end of the hall opened. Professor Myriel, the sister of Professor Bienvenu, came inside with the new first-years. Javert quickly spotted Gavroche from the corner of his eye. The boy was almost shaking with excitement and kept falling out of line as he walked towards the long table.

The first-years halted and formed a vaguely straight line in front of Professor Myriel, who placed a chair in front of them and put the Sorting Hat onto it.

Javert frowned at the sight of it. His own Sorting hadn’t exactly been a pleasant memory and the songs the Hat chose to sing every year, well. The less said about them the better.

And if sensing his half-hearted disapproval the Hat began to sing at once:

 


 Don’t be afraid to wear me, don’t fret, 



 I know I’m no pretty bonnet. 



 But I know more than the shape of your head 



 when I place myself upon it. 



   



 For a thousand years, a bit more, a bit less, 



 I sorted so many a student 



 that I may say with the greatest humblesse: 



 I make the choice that’s most prudent. 



   



 Slytherin over all values power, 



 the strength of the mind, the ambition to learn. 



 Threats are not to fear but to seize and devour 



 in the name of loyalty, shown only in turn. 



   



 Those whose fate in Ravenclaw lies 



 know how to bind logic with ethos, 



 to not just be righteous but witty and wise, 



 imagination is that which means most. 



   



 In Gryffindor the venturous are found, 



 minds filled with vivacious brave spirit. 



 Big-hearted, good-humoured, as daring renowned 



 they brighten a room once they’re in it. 



   



 In Hufflepuff all of the traits that are fair 



 are revered in shades even gentler: 



 to find strength in softness and courage in care 



 to be not a divider but mender. 



   



 It has been a while since the founders have walked 



 the halls of this most ancient fortress. 



 I talk and sort in place where they’d have talked 



 and sorted, not more and not less. 


 

Everyone applauded when it finished. Javert didn’t stir. He had thought the songs tiresome when he was a child and found his opinion to be utterly unchanged. The only job of the Sorting Hat was the Sorting, singing songs was just grossly inefficient and a waste of time. Not to mention the songs themselves were highly unoriginal.

Professor Myriel started calling out the first-year’s names. One after the other, they were put into their Houses. Gavroche was one of the last children to be called, his last name being Thénardier. Javert frowned; he knew that name too well and could see the resemblance clearly now. The Thénardiers were one of the ancient wizard families with a less than pretty history of illicit activities for decades, who had since then fallen from grace and out of favor with even the other pure-blood families. That would certainly explain the ragged robes the boy and his sister were wearing. Javert himself had had the displeasure of being at Hogwarts at the same time as Thénardier senior, who was, quite frankly, the embodiment of nastiness. The Sorting Hat took a long time to decide, much longer than with any other child. When it finally shouted “Gryffindor”, both the Gryffindors and the Slytherins seemed to be a bit astonished. Javert spotted Gavroche’s sister, who was sitting at the Slytherin table and looking dumbfounded. Javert was quite surprised himself. He’d never heard of any Thénardier being sorted into a House other than Slytherin.

Gavroche himself didn’t seem to care at all. Instead he tore the hat from his head, jumped off the chair and skipped happily towards the cheering Gryffindor table.

The rest of the Sorting went by without any surprises. After the last child had finally been sorted into their new House, Professor Bienvenu stood up for his yearly opening talk.

“Dear students, I want to warmly welcome you to yet another wonderful year at Hogwarts. Before the feast begins and you all dig into the delectable dishes our hard-working house elves prepared for you, I’d like to make a few announcements,” he paused and turned towards the direction of Javert who felt every pair of eyes in the hall shift to him. “First of all, I’d like to introduce Professor Javert, who will be teaching the N.E.W.T.-level Defense Against the Dark Arts classes this year.”

Javert stood up abruptly, nodded, and sat down as fast as he could. Merlin, if he ever had to be looked at again in his life, it’d be too soon.

Professor Bienvenu continued, “Professor Javert is an accomplished Auror and has years of experience in the field. Sixth-years and seventh-years, I’m sure he’ll be able to teach you everything you need to know for your upcoming N.E.W.T.s.”

The students applauded politely, which made Javert only feel worse.

“Then, I'd also like to welcome our new Professor for History of Magic, Monsieur Luc-Esprit Gillenormand. Professor Gillenormand was so kind as to fill in the post of Professor Lindesay, who decided to retire after his long career of enriching student’s lives with the history of our people.”

The student started to whisper and murmur as an elderly, well-dressed gentleman rose and looked sceptically into the hall.

“Thirdly, like every year I have to repeat that students should not go to the Forbidden Forest on their own. Also be sure to stay within the school grounds and don’t leave your dormitories after curfew.

“Last but not least, I wish everyone a marvelous school year and the best of luck in both your studies and your life. Enjoy yourselves and treat each other with love and with kindness.

“Let the feast begin!”

 

Javert felt exhausted when he finally went upstairs to settle into his quarters at Hogwarts. It was a small, simple one-room accommodation, furnished with nothing but a bookshelf, a desk, a chair and a bed, attached to his new office. Although he had a small apartment in London and could floo back there every night if he wanted to, it wasn’t any different to the rooms he just moved into and therefore too stressful and inefficient. Most of his belongings fitted into his suitcase anyways and Javert viewed himself as a man with simple needs. He didn’t even necessarily need a real bed to sleep. After all, he once slept on his office couch for three months when he had been working on a big smuggler case a couple of years ago.

Javert lit the candles with a wave of his hand and sat down. He took out the reports he failed to finish on the train and stacked the papers neatly on the desk. He stared unblinkingly at them for a couple of seconds. It was the report on the incident that got him into this mess in the first place.

The drumming of his fingers on the wooden desk seemed to mirror the headache that finally set in during the hours of the feast. He sighed and gave into the urge of burying his face in his hands. Unbiddenly the Headmaster’s words came into his mind. It would not do to start on the reports now; he knew better than not adhering to his sleep schedule and potentially underperforming on his first day of teaching.

 No, that would not do indeed, he looked out the window, stared at the waxing moon and frowned.

 

On Monday morning, Javert got up at the crack of dawn and finished one of his less urgent reports before his brain was awake enough to protest the tedious activity. During his breakfast he thought over the setup of his first lesson. He was committed to do his job properly even if he had not agreed to fill out the teaching post entirely on his own volition. His sixth-years arrived rather punctually when Javert was sitting at his desk in the front and going through his notes one last time. Since DADA was a rather difficult subject, there weren’t many students who got an O or even an E in their O.W.L.s, and not all the seats were occupied. Javert considered himself rather lucky under the circumstances to have at least ended up with the older students. It was more than likely that teaching a bunch of first-years what the Wand-Lighting Charm was would have driven him to jump off a preferably high bridge.

Javert closed the door with a flick of his wand when the last of his students had arrived and stood up.

“Good morning. My name is Javert and as you already know, I'm your new DADA teacher. I'm sure you are aware that N.E.W.T.-level classes are much more demanding and I expect you to take notes and practice everything I tell you. I don't like to repeat myself.” He waved his hand and let the chalk write  Nonverbal Spells  on the blackboard behind him. Most of the students listened attentively, some rummaged around their bags to get out some ink and parchment.

“It is expected of you this year that you learn to cast your spells nonverbally,” he said. “You'll practice this in Charms and Transfiguration as well, so I'm just going to show you the basics for now.”

“As the name suggests a nonverbal spell is produced by a witch or wizard without needing to say the incantation out loud. Most of you have managed to do something similar already, if not on purpose. The goal is now to hone that ability. Being able to wield magic the nonverbal way will give students not only an advantage in duels but help you train the fluidity with which you are able to perform spells.”

 And make less noise in general which greatly benefits my wellbeing, he completed silently in his mind. If it were up to him, nonverbal spells would be taught immediately, skill be damned.

“I believe it would be best for you to start practicing with easy charms like levitation or simple summoning spells. That way you are certain to find the fault in the nonverbal and not the spell aspect of the exercise if you should fail.

“Should you feel ready to move on to moderately difficult charms I advise you to practice your shield charms. The size and efficiency of the shield charm may be highly dependent on the skill, energy and intention put behind it, but it is certainly one of the charms that you will benefit most from knowing how to cast nonverbally. From personal experiences I can vouch for their importance in case of a duel or another conflict.”

By the end of his monologue most of his students were peering at him inquisitively as if expecting more details on the importance of shield charms on Auror duty, but Javert, having no intention of talking more than absolutely needed, instructed them to start practicing. He walked through the rows, trying to assist when needed, although most of his advice consisted of admonishing students and explaining that mumbling the incantations or amateur attempts at ventriloquism did not fit the definition of nonverbal. And one of the Ravenclaw students, even though she did not speak, thought so loudly she projected her screaming voice into the mind of the classmate sitting next to her, which may not have resulted in a successful spell, but was frankly an accomplishment in and of itself.

Only a boy with blonde curls who was sitting in the last row next to a bespectacled student was able to cast almost everything straight away and gracefully so. Judging by the badge he wore on his chest, he was one of Slytherin’s Prefects. He had pretty, almost girlish features, but there was something hidden in his eyes, piercing and calculating, that alerted Javert. He knew trouble when he saw it, and that boy definitely meant  some  kind of trouble, prefect or not. He wrote a mental note and filed it away for later.

About an hour later Javert dismissed the class. He sighed, although his first lesson had not been horrible, he knew that this was going to be a very long school year.

A group that's on its way to becoming historic.

History of Magic was by common consent one of the most boring subjects ever to be devised by wizardkind. And Professor Gillenormand, the new teacher, was not helping the case at all. Even to call him  new  was an insult to the word, since the man looked old enough to have witnessed most of the events he was currently threatening to discuss in the next year. Some of the students had already started speculating that he was the result of a resurrection gone wrong – or right, depending on how you looked at it. The first lesson of the sixth-years was on wand lore, and although the topic might have been interesting in another teacher’s class, it certainly wasn’t in this case. Most students’ brains disengaged quite soon after Gillenormand started droning on about the different wand cores and which ones were the most revered, and they started gazing sleepily into the distance.

Only Pontmercy, the Professor’s grandson, seemed to be alert, although that was owed to him desperately trying to make himself as small as possible in his seat in order to avoid any kind of interaction with his old relative. In front of him, his classmate Courfeyrac was doodling something that looked like an assortment of small hearts on his parchment, occasionally brushing his hand through his auburn hair, making it remarkably messy in the process. He sometimes raised his head and whispered something to his neighbour, a short and sweet looking boy named Prouvaire, whom he called Jehan. When they started quietly but audibly laughing at something, they attracted the attention of their professor who, despite looking like a walking piece of old leather, came walking quite briskly towards their desk.

“And what might be so funny, gentlemen?” he asked, letting his wand hit the desk emphatically which made Courfeyrac’s parchment roll in on itself.

“Oh, nothing,” the latter said, apparently unconscious of any misstep he might have made. “We were just discussing, eh, the difference between a unicorn hair plucked from the mane and the tail?”

Next to him Prouvaire nodded eagerly and tried to hide that he’d been working on his Herbology assignments, shoving a sketch of the Flutterby bush under a fresh roll of parchment. Professor Gillenormand only frowned at them.

“I’d have expected young men like you not to concern yourselves with unicorn hair in the first place. Much too sentimental and womanish for young wizards, I would say. In my youth, it would have been a shame. Unthinkable. What would have been next, fairy hair?”

He muttered as though to himself, straightened his dark green necktie and kept peering at them with dull blue eyes. Prouvaire started to fidget in his seat. “You, there, you’re a  de Courfeyrac, aren’t you, boy. What are you doing in Gryffindor; shouldn’t you be in my house, like your parents?”

Courfeyrac stopped smiling. “Just Courfeyrac, and I think I know which house I’m in. As to why, maybe you should ask the Hat, Professor.”

Gillenormands eyebrows rose. “Well, well, as you like, M. Courfeyrac. And what’s your wand made of? Fiery temper says dragon heartstring.”

Courfeyrac nodded shortly. “And chestnut.”

The professor nodded, as if satisfied by that answer and turned to Prouvaire, who was nervously looking at him. “As to you, you’re a Prouvaire? Old house, good family. Also got a dragon core?”

Courfeyrac opened his mouth sharply as if to speak, but Prouvaire, who wanted to avoid his friend talking back to their professor, beat him to it. “No, Sir. Um, I actually have a unicorn hair core.”

“What a shame,” said Gillenormand dismissively. “Is at least your wand wood any good?”

Prouvaire flushed. “The wood is from a lime tree. It was taken from my grandmother’s garden, actually.”

“Hm, well.” Professor Gillenormand said coolly. “You are lucky that today most people have forgotten the importance of wand materials, M. Prouvaire. In my time you wouldn’t have gotten a single match with a lady from a good family with a wand like that –“

And he turned away from their desk, going on about what the individual wand cores would have signified in a potential match when he was in his prime − so about 250 years ago, Courfeyrac wagered. Still mad about their unpleasant interlude, he wanted to raise Prouvaire’s spirits a bit, who was sitting still red-cheeked and meek next to him.

“Well, Jehan,” he whispered when Gillenormand was turned towards the blackboard. “As long as it’s only the ladies that won’t consider you a good match, I think you’ll be fine. I know at least one young gentleman, who’d love to have a good look at your ‘womanish’ wand.”

Prouvaire buried his head in his arms. His face grew even redder, but his shoulders were shaking with quiet laughter. He scrunched up his face at his friend in mock disgust. “Stop it, you, I have no idea at all what you’re talking about. I’m gonna behave for the rest of the lesson so as to not get insulted for my wand again. Keep doodling hearts on your parchment, if you so please.”

And a few minutes later the groggy and uncomfortable silence of the classroom was restored. Only Professor Gillenormand’s droning voice was to be heard, and sadly it was loud enough that no one was actually able to fall asleep − not that they didn't try to.

When the bell finally rang, Courfeyrac and Prouvaire hurriedly stuffed their quills and books into their bags and rushed up the stairs. On their way to the seventh floor, they were mindful to avoid meeting Grantaire, the caretaker of Hogwarts, who at this time of day usually loitered about on the fifth floor. While not being an entirely unlikable member of the staff, most of the older students knew to keep their distance unless they wanted to be the silent participant of mostly monological conversations about entirely uninteresting subjects such as foot-boxing, wine varieties and definitely bogus romances he supposedly had had in his youth. The only time when Grantaire was truly useful was at night: Instead of keeping watch in the corridors, he unfailingly slept soundly on whatever post the headmaster had sent him to guard.

Prouvaire and Courfeyrac felt quite relieved when they managed to slink past him unnoticed and only stopped running when they arrived at the tapestry of Barnabas the Barmy dancing with the trolls. They walked past it three times before finally a door appeared.

The door looked mostly like the ones leading to their usual classrooms, maybe a little more worn. But what lay behind it was much different by far. The Room of Requirement was always waiting for someone to need it and in the case of Courfeyrac and Prouvaire, their need was already known to it. Before the two could even touch the handle, the door creaked while opening slowly to reveal a dim-lit conference room behind it. Everything about the room was relaxed and familiar to them; its long table with a dozen chairs and couches scattered across the place, a huge bookshelf with all kinds of tomes and maps, and a blackboard with the words “Les Amis de l'ABC”, written in fine, cursive handwriting across it. In one corner in front of a tall window, three pots were standing, the plants in them flowering in pretty pastel colours and occasionally snapping at one another.

There was already an older Gryffindor boy inside, who was sitting at the far end of the table, toying about with two enchanted paper bison, making them race down the table to greet the newcomers.

“What’s up, Feuilly, mate,” said Courfeyrac as they walked in, while Jehan raised one hand in greeting.

“Unfortunately not much, as you can see,” said Feuilly and shrugged, looking up at them with warm brown eyes, letting the bison unravel into pieces of parchment again. “How was History of Magic? And hi, Jehan.” He added, touching Prouvaire's forearm for a moment when he sat down beside him and receiving a sweet smile in return.

“Terrible,” Courfeyrac flung himself dramatically on another chair. “I have no idea which graveyard they dug up Gillenormand from. That man’s so old he belongs back in his casket! And you should hear those things he's said about Jehan...”

The door gave a creaking sound as it opened, but Courfeyrac didn't bother to turn around and look. Instead he continued gossipping about their last class, making Feuilly shake his head grimly from time to time.

In came three boys, two Hufflepuffs and one Gryffindor.

The Gryffindor boy, Bahorel, was a tall, sturdy fellow, who wore a bright red tie instead of the regular striped one. Like his classmate Feuilly he was in his last year at Hogwarts. As was Lesgle, the young man who came in after him, who was addressed by everyone as  Bossuet , the nickname becoming so popular that most other students and even a few teachers didn't know his real name anymore. He had just raised his hand in an attempt to flatten his thin brown hair over his forehead like he usually did and in doing so missed stepping over the threshold, stumbling over it instead. He managed to steady himself by holding onto Joly, his best friend who came in last but in turn dropped his Potions textbook.

“Oops, sorry,” he said, grinning crookedly at the sixth-year. He then let go of his lanky frame, bending down to pick up his books. Joly only shook his head a bit exasperatedly.

“Good thing I carried my cane with me today. Otherwise you’d have taken me down with you!” He was wearing a scarf even though the weather in September was still warm and sunny and coughed a bit as he walked into the room. “Really, imagine the bruises! Or I could’ve sprained something!”

He didn’t look particularly bothered about said injuries. He swiftly grabbed Bousset, who still struggled with his books and bag, and greeted the others happily as he spotted them. “Hi guys!”

“Of course we wouldn’t want you hurt, Joly, especially since my Dittany plant isn’t big enough yet to take care of that.” Prouvaire, who was checking on the plants, watering the dry ones with a quick  Aguamenti, turned around and smiled at them. The two other boys were still in the middle of rightfully slandering Professor Gillenormand.

“I see that there are two of us still missing,” remarked Bahorel.

“I'm sure they're discussing something for today's meeting in advance and forgot about the fact that it is possible to talk and walk at the same time,” Joly coughed again, but his tone was still merry. “Well, possible for everyone except maybe Bossuet.”

He put down his cane and took the textbooks from Bossuet, who elbowed him playfully in the ribs. The two continued ribbing each other, Joly mostly harping on Bossuet’s clumsiness and the latter teasing Joly for his firm belief that he had a variety of diseases and wanting to become a healer at the same time. In order to prepare himself different potions, Joly had already advanced to the seventh-years' level of Potions and Herbology classes. Finally Joly went in Jehan’s direction with  Advanced Potion-Making  still tucked under his arm and plopped down on the couch.

Bahorel exchanged a few words with Bossuet about last week’s game in the British-Irish Quidditch League as they took their regular seats at the table.

A couple of minutes later, the door swung open again and in came Enjolras, the Slytherin Prefect who had mastered all the shield charms in Javert’s first class the other day. His gait was graceful yet quick and his cool blue eyes seemed to flick restlessly from one boy to another as he came further into the Room of Requirements.

“Where is Combeferre?” Enjolras asked without a pause.

“Haven't seen him today,” answered Courfeyrac immediately. His ears always caught the word  Combeferre  like a charm. “I thought he was with you.”

“He must be in the library,” Enjolras frowned, “I'll be back in a second. Feel free to begin without us, there's a lot to discuss today.”

As quickly as he had come in, he vanished through the door again, his blonde curls like his robes billowing behind him. Courfeyrac only shrugged and turned back to the others to rant some more.

“Professor Gillenormand sounds like a real prick,” said Bossuet finally. Bahorel nodded in agreement. They had been listening in to Courfeyrac and Feuilly’s conversation. Prouvaire had not taken part in the ranting but his ears where reddening once again when the attention was turned back on him from time to time.

“He really is,” said Feuilly, carefully avoiding looking at Prouvaire directly. “As if lime tree and unicorn hair was anything but a lovely combination.”

He paused. “A real shame, though. People like him can really spoil History of Magic for you and now most of his students will just detest the subject right along with the teacher. Which is, y’know, absolutely fair.”

 

The room was mostly quiet and everybody had taken their seats when Enjolras came back with Combeferre about ten minutes later. The latter was the broad-shouldered young man with short hair and a pair of glasses that had been sitting beside Enjolras in Javert’s class. He was the only Ravenclaw in this room just as Enjolras was the only Slytherin, and like him and Prouvaire he wore a Prefect's badge. A large pile of books was floating behind the two boys, which Combeferre directed towards the table with a flick of his wand and dropped there. The door fell shut again and Enjolras waved his hand at the blackboard. The sponge flew over the writing and wiped it off. Then a piece of chalk replaced it with the rather dramatic word  Armament  in the same cursive handwriting.

Enjolras was without a doubt the leader of their small, underground student club. He was the only son and sole heir to the ancient House of Enjolras, an immensely wealthy wizarding family that valued blood purity over everything. Enjolras, who had always been a particularly rebellious child, had hated the idea of blood supremacy with a passion since he had been old enough to understand what it entailed. At first, he only hated the oppressing presence of his parents’ obsession with traditions and the responsibilities that robbed him of his freedom. But later in his childhood he noticed how everybody else had to suffer even more than him, both servants, elves, his friends and everybody deemed not worthy of his family’s recognition − and that were a lot of people. A lot of people Enjolras liked and looked up to much more than his own blood. The mere thought of his parents considering themselves as some kind of royalty was appalling to him even before he came to Hogwarts. And then the Sorting Hat had promptly put him into Slytherin without even a hint of hesitation, as if his name was all there was to him. And unsurprisingly the only people he got along with were almost exclusively from different houses than him. Simple probability calculation, really.

Partly his ire towards his family and their elitist acquaintances, because friends was too kind of a word in his opinion, and partly his disdain towards the Hogwarts House system inspired his decision to do what he did best and rebel once again. In his opinion the houses and their century-long rivalry between them, this tradition of sorting students into arbitrary categories, and the blood-supremacy that was directly cultivated by it, were all dregs that ought to be discarded. In order to abolish this system and create a new, liberal and equal environment at this school, he had founded Les Amis de l'ABC when he was in his fifth year. At first it was just him, Combeferre, who was his childhood friend, and Courfeyrac, who at the time was still trying to ask Combeferre out. In the course of the year, they gained a few more members who Enjolras knew would listen to him and were equally enthusiastic about his cause that quickly became their common cause. They planned to protest openly against the Board of Governors by the end of the school year, on which unsurprisingly Enjolras' father was also an active member. But until then, they would have a lot of planning to do.

Now, everyone looked to Enjolras, waiting for him to take his seat and start the meeting. 

He did, but it was Courfeyrac who spoke up first. “Let's get straight to it then, boys. I secretly did some research in my dad’s library during the summer holidays. It seems that our theory might not just be a theory. When I was looking for clues, there were a few mentions of another book that was apparently written in response to Bagshot’s ‘Hogwarts: A History’. It’s called 'Hogwarts: The real History', very creative, I know, but it seems exactly like what we need. Apparently made a huge scandal and everything. It’s a shame that we don't have it at home, but it might be in the library here, though.”

“If it really is in the school library, I'm sure it’s in the Restricted Section. I can’t imagine they’d want us students to read it if it really is as controversial as you say.” Prouvaire said.

“Agreed, I don't think we're gonna get a note of permission either,” Bossuet frowned.

Courfeyrac smirked, “Guess we'll have to sneak in at night, then. Pillaging the library by candle light and all that. Hoping that Mlle. de Blemeur doesn’t catch us and cut our heads off.”

Combeferre nodded, “Speaking of which, I did some further research regarding the  Invisibility Potion that could come in handy what I mentioned at our last meeting. Once I've managed to successfully brew it, we might even be able to go there during the day.”

“I still prefer the idea of just making an  Erumpent Potion,” said Bahorel, “and blowing up the Board's meeting room. It's the three E’s: easy, effective and extremely fun.”

“And excessive. Bahorel, I think we've had this discussion twice already,” said Combeferre. “It’d be way too dangerous and is out of question.”

Bahorel shrugged, obviously not deterred in the slightest, but didn't say anything more.

Combeferre continued, “The biggest problem we have is getting the ingredients. Some of them only grow in the Forbidden Forest−” 

“But Professor Bienvenu says that we can't go there. In fact he says it every year. Twice.” Interrupted Joly worriedly.

“Well, we  can  go as long as they don't find out,” Courfeyrac said all mischievously. “And honestly, what could go wrong. It's not like we've never been in the Forbidden Forest before.”

“I bet Leblanc is gonna find out,” countered Bossuet.

Everyone fell silent for a second. Leblanc was their nickname for Hogwarts’ strange groundskeeper who lived in a little hut near the border to the forest. His real name was Jean Valjean, but the nickname had stuck after they’d all noticed that his hair was completely white despite him not being that old.

“Maybe we could go late at night? After making sure he’s asleep, of course,” proposed Feuilly.

“But that guy never sleeps,” said Bahorel. “Last year, when I went to the Forbidden Forest, and I went at like, 3 a.m., he was waiting there with a lamp when I came out. He was really worried about me, but not so much that he didn’t tell Professor Myriel right away. It got me a full month of detention.”

“Wait, that's why you got your detention?” Feuilly exclaimed. “Didn’t you pick a fight with that Slytherin guy, what’s his name again−”

“Oh yeah, that too,” replied Bahorel as if it was nothing. “Name’s Cabuc, by the way. Nasty bugger, should’ve kicked his arse some more. Never mind though, let’s get back to Leblanc.”

“If he catches us, he’s definitely going to tell the Professors,” said Joly, who’d been silent so far. Prouvaire next to him nodded.

“Doesn't Professor Mabeuf keep a sample of everything that grows on this planet in his personal greenhouse?” Bossuet said a moment later.

“That's right, we could sneak into the greenhouse,” said Courfeyrac, who was ready to suggest a break-in for every question that arose.

“Dude, Professor Mabeuf literally sleeps on his plants,” snorted Bahorel. “And I mean, literally. Back then in Herbology I once overheard him saying that there’s nothing better to sleep on than bundled up, de-thorned dried nettles. And there’s no telling when he might putter around in his plots.”

“Seems like the forest is our only choice, then?” Joly looked at Combeferre.

“I’ll try to see if there are other options,” said Combeferre pensively, writing a note neatly in one of his books.

“That's not necessary,” Enjolras, who had until then only attentively listened to his friends, spoke up. He thought for a moment. “Risks are to be taken, and we're on a rather tight schedule. The ingredients need to be harvested, dried properly and the potion needs time to brew. So the sooner we obtain the ingredients, the better. Bahorel, you know the Forbidden Forest the best, you can go with Combeferre. Bossuet, Courfeyrac, please accompany them. Four people should suffice; I believe you're able to deal with any kind of emergency situation should it be necessary?”

“Definitely,” said Courfeyrac.

If it were up to him and Bahorel, they’d barge into the Forbidden Forest this night, no questions asked. But luckily, Combeferre was there to rein them in a bit. The rest of the afternoon was spent discussing the particulars of their mission. Prouvaire helped them list the ingredients they would need and suggested spots where they would be able to find them. A few of the others loitered around, some reading and others discussing their further projects. When they had only half an hour to get to their Common Rooms before going down to have dinner in the Great Hall, they quickly packed up and left their comfortable headquarters behind. They met again at the entrance, nodding to each other in passing, all except for Combeferre who got caught by Grantaire and found himself trapped in a conversation about stick-fighting that went on for the next fifteen minutes.

 

The next day, after their Charms class, Courfeyrac noticed in passing that his classmate Pontmercy was looking gloomy. Pontmercy was a fellow Gryffindor and they had become tentative friends when he had been crashing on Courfeyrac’s couch during the last summer holidays because “things were complicated at home”, but he was never told what exactly had happened. Apparently things were worse than Courfeyrac thought; the boy looked pale enough to be a ghost.

“Hey, Pontmercy, you alright?” Courfeyrac asked and leaned over.

Marius Pontmercy, in fact, was not alright. His last summer holidays had been the worst weeks of his life. His whole life he had lived with his maternal grandfather and aunt, believing himself to be an orphan. When at the end of the holidays his grandfather had told him outright that his Muggle father had been alive all this time but was now close to death and wanted to see him one last time, he complied but found it was too late already. There had only been a letter, addressed to him, that explained his grandfather’s part in keeping him away from his father and the Muggle world. He ran away from home and spent the rest of the holidays with Courfeyrac. He thought Hogwarts would let him escape his family a bit longer, just to see his grandfather at the Welcoming Feast as the newly appointed Professor for History of Magic – Professor Gillenormand.

The first lesson yesterday had been like torture already. Up until now Pontmercy had held his grandfather, in his circles a much respected man, in rather high regards despite his antiquated ideals, but now he didn't know how he was to cope with the following weeks. When Courfeyrac asked him whether he was alright, he didn’t even try to pretend and shook his head. Courfeyrac seemed to consider something for a bit, then looked at him again.

“You know what; I have this club-meeting this afternoon. How about you come along and get a bit of a distraction from−” he gestured towards the professor's seat, “all this.”

“A club-meeting? You never told me you were in a club,” his friend said, still staring at his desk dully. “But yeah, sounds nice.”

Courfeyrac nodded and took a glance at his wrist-watch.

“Alright, see you at 3 pm then. Seventh floor, right in front of Barnabas the Barmy, you know the one.”

 

Courfeyrac was already pacing up and down the corridor in front of the tapestry on which a man in silken robes tried to get some trolls to do Plié when Pontmercy showed up. The latter was quite shocked when a door started materialising from among the old stone wall as it had the day before. There were already a few students in the headquarters of Les Amis, talking over each other cheerfully and Courfeyrac lost no time introducing his friend to the rest of the group. Everyone greeted the newcomer enthusiastically.

Pontmercy felt a bit out of his depth among these boys, most of whom he knew from they’re joint classes and Quidditch training, but also from dinner parties his grandfather had attended in the last years. And the thought of his grandfather did nothing but sour his mood immediately. After his attempt to involve him in a conversation about Quidditch had failed, Courfeyrac pulled him along to Combeferre instead, a reserved Ravenclaw Prefect, to whom Pontmercy had seen Courfeyrac talk to a lot during the end of last year. Combeferre didn’t seem bothered to be interrupted, though. He took up the conversation with his friend quite easily, leaving Pontmercy to look around the room freely. 

It was no larger than a regular classroom, though it was arranged much nicer, almost like a Common Room that seemed to comfortably fit all these students from different houses and years. Pontmercy had no idea why they wouldn’t simply go to their own Common Rooms instead, though. Looking around, it didn’t seem like their club actually had a stringent theme at all. At least, that’s what he thought before spotting a blackboard at the end of the room that showed the word  Armament  as well as a bunch of names grouped together in subdivisions sporting the headlines  Forest,  Library  and  Reserve. Enjolras, whom he knew in passing, noticed his gaze and joined them.

“Pontmercy, it is nice to see you here. An additional person not confined by the enforced division is always welcome,” he said, giving him a sharp look that the Gryffindor supposed should convey a meaning he entirely missed. He looked helplessly at Courfeyrac, who only laughed.

“Oh don’t worry, Pontmercy, you’re gonna get used to our peaceful, house-rivalry free atmosphere. Well, relative peace and only as long as we content ourselves with being peaceful,” he grinned, winking at Combeferre who in turn smiled at him. “Here all the mismatched and misplaced students from all the Houses can mingle amongst their fellow misfits.”

“Oh, so this really is like some sort of common room?” Pontmercy asked.

Enjolras raised an eyebrow. “If by common room you mean  a room actually made and inhabited by people with common goals, aspirations and interests, instead of being prevented from interacting with each other by an arbitrary house structure that only separates us further?”

Pontmercy was bewildered. “Don’t the houses make up all of Hogwarts? What would it be without them?”

“Hogwarts didn’t need houses to be great, and still doesn’t need them. Quia nominor draco.”

Pontmercy felt that the sentiment uttered by Enjolras was gnawing at his core understanding of the one thing still giving him a solid foundation in his life, now that he saw Gryffindor not just as his house but his home. Therefore he felt no desire to back down even as he noticed the others looking at him with barely concealed curiosity. He steadied his stance and started speaking.

“But there are so many things the Houses give us! By living and learning together, I can form strong bonds with my fellow house members. We can collaborate and protect each other in difficult situations and are a family, really. It's not like I'm against the other houses, but by holding close to our own house members, we become stronger together against the others when there are conflicts. Also through the Sorting we are accepted for our core personality. To have like-minded people around us makes it easier for us to form friendships, relationships that often last a lifetime. You can always trust the people in your House more because you know that they think the same way. Without the Houses, our dorms, classes, Quidditch teams and everything else would have to be renewed. What chaos that could bring to our daily life! Gryffindor is my home. To have stability, a constant that is around me, that will not fail and continue to support me, what is there greater than this?”

“To be free. Free to choose and change as you grow,” said Combeferre.

Pontmercy averted his eyes. This short sentence delivered so matter-of-factly, so simple that it must be nothing but the truth went through his speech like a knife and he felt his resolve crumble. When he looked up again, Combeferre had turned back to his discussion with Courfeyrac who avoided catching his gaze. Everyone else, with the exception of Enjolras, who had listened to his outburst quietly, had returned to their previous conversations, this time pointedly ignoring his presence. 

Left with Enjolras' attention still fixed on him, Pontmercy shifted awkwardly on his feet, but still felt he wasn’t ready to let the argument be. The other boy began to speak again, quite calmly this time.

“I know the feeling, but Slytherin is not my home,” Enjolras clasped his shoulder for a brief moment before turning towards the blackboard. “Hogwarts is.”

A memory stirs...

Javert was done with this week. If his self-control hadn’t been as strong, he would have let his more basic instincts take over and curl up on himself in the second period when two sixth grade students had managed to knock each other out by performing simple disarming charms. Javert didn’t know who had taught these kids dueling practices, but he was fairly certain that even the biggest simpleton of a teacher would have instructed them to keep their spell energy capped − so that the wand of their opponent would fly out of their hand and  not  knock them unconscious. He had gotten an earful from Sister Perpétue when he brought the girls into the hospital wing, where the usually very charitable nurse told him he really ought to have a closer watch on his students. And she wasn’t wrong: this had already been the third incident this week and he really couldn’t afford any more. His carelessness got him into this teaching mess in the first place.

Ironically, him chiding himself for being not cautious enough was interrupted when his shoulder collided painfully with something, knocking him sideways and making him drop his papers, which spread across the floor around him. A boy had run into him and was now looking sulkily at him, murmuring something under his breath that vaguely sounded like an apology. Javert narrowed his eyes. He recognized the student as one of the sixth year Gryffindors he had taught earlier this week, who in an attempt to conjure an extremely inapt shield charm, was the first one to get knocked out in one of his classes. And now here he was, spacing out once again, running into him and not even having the decency to look embarrassed at all.

With the flick of his wand Javert gathered his documents into a neat stack and fixed his piercing eyes on the boy in front of him, who was preparing to slink away listlessly. “No running in the corridors, M. Pontmercy. Five points from Gryffindor.”

At least that was something of a benefit to becoming a teacher. Punishment was immediate and effective, with not much preamble required. All the students were aware of Hogwarts’ rules and regulations as well as the consequences they had to face should they act against them. That hadn’t changed very much from his own schooldays two decades prior.

Javert shuddered internally while walking back towards his own rooms. In fact nothing had changed at all; nothing but the sad truth that he was in Hogwarts and miserable once again. This time not an ambitious seventeen-year-old student with a squeaky clean record and a future full of promise but a worn out thirty-seven-year-old Auror dishonorably discharged from active service. Or temporarily suspended, as his boss Gisquet called it. If it had been up to Javert, he would have preferred a straightforward dismissal. Instead, he had no choice but to respect his superior’s decision.

The ‘incident’, as it had been dubbed among the office, hadn't been his fault entirely, Javert admitted. Still, he bore the brunt of the backlash resulting from it and he felt that it was right this way, even though some of his colleagues disagreed. He and his team had been following the biggest lead they had had in a while. A lead that connected several smuggling cases that had been on their radar from a few weeks to several years and traced them back to a group known as the ‘Patron-Minette’. An unnamed informant had given them the date and time of a supposed meet-up, in which a few members of the Patron-Minette were planning to hand over their latest stolen goods. Javert’s instincts had told him as much, told him the lead was too good to be true in the first place. But a lead is a lead and therefore cannot go uninspected.

None of the suspected organizers had appeared, instead some minions had waited for him and his men to show up and ambushed them. He should have known. He should have known it was a trap, should have known that investigating went both ways and that there was a possibility they knew about him and had come prepared. And know him they did.

It was an open secret at the department – Javert, the integrational experiment. Javert, the liability. Javert, the werewolf.

On the surface, all the odds except the obvious were in his favor. His status as a werewolf who was born, not bitten, and therefore much more predictable, helped Chabouillet, his patron so to speak, to convince the office to accept his application and disregard opposing voices. His reputation was irrefutably good, his control impeccable and his abilities higher than those of his colleagues. Still, there was a risk. And twenty years it had worked, until the ‘incident’. The moment he had stepped into the alleyway and saw that it was a dead end, his stomach had turned. A man opposite to him had pointed his wand not at him but at a few leaves on the ground between them, setting them aflame and the smoke had rendered him delirious immediately. It had released a raging hunger in him that even a full moon would have never been able to replicate.

It was his pure luck that the man responsible was the only man harmed, that despite his social skills, which left much to be desired, his colleagues had reported in his favor and that Gisquet, the Head of Office, agreed to have him temporarily suspended in spite of endangering his team as well as the case. His relocation to Hogwarts would even allow him to follow one of the leads that pointed to the Patron-Minette’s interest in the school.

Javert felt the hair on his arms bristle. He hated it, hated the situation, hated himself for giving in to the proposal of his superior instead of insisting on his dismissal like he initially had planned. He had become too involved and now he was here and there was no going back on his word without insulting not only Chabouillet, Gisquet and the Auror’s department, but also his own headmaster, Professor Bienvenu, who had taken him in so graciously.

Javert buried his face in his hands and held back a groan, then straightened himself once more.  It was done, he thought, while untying his hair,  nothing to do, except giving his further investigations his all. 

Staring at the nearly full moon, Javert felt that familiar itch under his skin that was full of promise, pulling him towards the illuminated edge of the forest. Resolutely he closed the curtains.

 

Thanks to Combeferre meticulously studying the weather forecast, in the night when the ingredient subdivision of Les Amis executed their harvesting plan, the same moon that gave Javert increasing trouble was shining brightly and not a cloud was in the sky. The Forbidden Forest still stood looming and still before them, and there was a soft mist rising up from the meadows but otherwise the air and ground was dry. Moonlight illuminated several little trails leading into the woods. Bahorel resolutely walked ahead, tugging along Bossuet, while Combeferre and Courfeyrac strolled behind them, armed with a few bags and shears.

They found all the herbs and fruits they were looking for quite easily, only encountering a small disruption when arguing if the black cherry they needed  was supposed to be early or late blooming and if it was the same thing as a chokecherry (according to Jehan it was). Combeferre put an end to the discussion by taking fruits of both the trees, putting them into separate bags, which made Courfeyrac proclaim that his darling boy was a genius and they could finally go back to the castle now.

Just when they came out of the Dark Forest, Bossuet tripped on a vine and fell to the ground with a yelp. The four students stopped dead in their tracks. A few moments passed. Just when they were almost certain that no one had noticed them, they saw a flickering light in the distance that was rapidly getting bigger. Bahorel groaned in despair. They tried to move away but made out someone’s silhouette in the darkness that was facing them, holding up a dimly lit lantern.

“It’s definitely Leblanc,” whispered Courfeyrac. “We’re screwed.”

“It’s my fault,” murmured Bossuet. “It’s my bad luck. I should’ve known!”

Reluctantly they walked towards the light. When they got closer, their fear was confirmed when they saw a bearded middle-aged man with white hair that reflected the warm light. There was no doubt; it was Jean Valjean.

“What are you boys doing out here? Is someone hurt?” asked Valjean who had heard Bossuet fall. His voice was low and rough as if he hadn’t spoken in hours and he eyed them all intently.

Bossuet shuffled around and managed to mumble out that no, he was fine, just a few scratches from the brambles. Valjean nodded curtly and his gaze shifted to Combeferre who had stepped forward.

“M. Valjean, we’re sorry for not informing you earlier. Professor Mabeuf told us to find fluxweed for the next Herbology class,” he said, holding up the bags with a few of the herbs they dug up during their escapade in the woods. “It can only be replanted if it’s dug up during a moonlit night. He actually wanted to come with us, but apparently there was some emergency with his newly potted plants in one of the greenhouses, so he asked us to go ahead without him. We’ve been in the Forest plenty of times, so we knew we could find the herbs by ourselves.”

Courfeyrac was rather impressed that Combeferre said all that without even batting an eyelid, and mouthed ‘freaking genius’ at him for the second time tonight. 

Valjean still eyed them warily; he held out the lamp and examined the bag of herbs closely. They indeed were fluxweeds; and it was known to everybody that Professor Mabeuf valued his plants in the greenhouses greatly, so it even wasn’t that far-fetched that he would spontaneously let older students go to the Forbidden Forest on their own. On top of that, Combeferre was a Prefect.

Valjean sighed. He gestured to the boys to follow him and the little group made their way back towards the greenhouses. “Been in the forest plenty of times, eh? And what’s with you two,” Valjean turned to Courfeyrac and Bahorel. “As far as I remember, you aren’t in Herbology.”

“Um, not really, but we like Professor Mabeuf and offered our help and he said it was alright, M. Valjean. It’s certainly safer to go into the Forest in a group, isn’t it?” Courfeyrac said with a lopsided grin.

Valjean frowned at him, but something like amusement shone in his eyes. “It would’ve been safest if I’d been there in the first place, but I suppose you hard-working  helpers  just happened to forget, hm?”

“I'll really have to have a word with Professor Mabeuf tomorrow, allowing students to go into the Forest like that,” he finally said, when they arrived at the dark greenhouses. “Now light your wands and go back to your dormitories. And no detours!”

The four boys smiled and nodded, then rushed towards the castle after saying their goodbyes.

Valjean shook his head bemusedly and watched their silhouettes disappear into the darkness of the night, then turned around to make his way back to his hut.

 

Only a few hours later a sharp knock sounded on the wooden door of the gamekeeper’s hut. Javert stood on the doorstep. In his mind, he quickly reconsidered the points he wanted to discuss with the school’s gamekeeper as he waited to be let in. He heard footsteps behind the door, then with a faint creaking sound it was pushed wide open, and a face appeared in the doorway. A familiar face. It was a face he last expected to see here at Hogwarts.

He instantly forgot whatever greeting he had wanted to say, just managed to croak out a stunned, “Jean Valjean!” while the man opposite to him looked at him with wide eyes and breathed an almost inaudible, “Oh. It’s you.”

He recognized the man almost immediately, his hair too white for a man not yet fifty and his stature, although shorter than him, almost brutish in its broadness. Although the last time he had seen him, the man had looked as if he wanted to fold in on himself and make himself as small as possible − a laughable undertaking, really. He had stood in the dock, head low, where he had belonged and Javert had put him.

It had been his last case at the Magical Law Enforcement Patrol, almost a decade ago, and Javert had been sent to arrest what he was told was a dangerous criminal for forcefully breaking out of a Muggle prison by magic. Jean Valjean, apparently a born troublemaker who had already been expelled from Hogwarts during his 6th year, of course wasn’t allowed to possess a wand or use any kind of magic in front of Muggles and, in that case, even injuring them. He was caught and tried. However, Javert hadn’t been able to stay until he was sentenced, having been set on another case soon after the initial arrest. He had been content in the knowledge that Valjean would get a strict guilty verdict. Apparently it hadn’t been as strict, seeing as Jean Valjean, as a convict, was allowed to be the gamekeeper of Hogwarts. Which was ridiculous.

They stared at each other. Then, a long moment later, as if startled by their mutual inaction, Javert drew his wand. At the same time, Valjean raised up his hands appeasingly. 

“Jean Valjean,” Javert hissed through clenched teeth, struggling to keep his face blank. It didn’t make any sense. Javert looked at Valjean disdainfully as his perplexity only grew. But Valjean seemed just as surprised to see him and didn’t even try to hide it. Getting over the initial shock, he lowered his hands again, slowly. “I didn’t expect–”

Javert interrupted him. “What are you doing here?”

“I'm the gamekeeper,” said Valjean. “Keeper of Keys and Grounds. Professor Bienvenu offered me a job here two years ago.”

“Hah!” snarled Javert. “And why exactly should the Headmaster offer a criminal a job at Hogwarts? You’ve got to come up with a better lie.”

“I'm telling the truth,” Valjean frowned. He held eye contact defiantly and Javert, who was not used to being on the receiving end of being regarded with such intensity, looked away. He was still immensely confused, but he had no indication at all that anything unlawful was taking place except Valjean’s history and his mistrust. He decided to bring the matter to Professor Bienvenu’s attention later. For now he had to finish what he came here for.

If he had the choice, he would never speak to a convict − former convict, his mind unhelpfully supplied − about this matter, but his first DADA class was going to start shortly. He didn't have much time left and the matter was urgent enough to disregard his suspicions.

“Auror Javert−” Valjean began.

“Just Javert is fine, I’m no longer an Auror,” said Javert brusquely. He was still adamant on not being called a professor, which he felt was an incorrect term for his situation. “Professor Bienvenu told me to contact the gamekeeper if I were to have any inquiries or requests about security issues at Hogwarts.”

“Um, of course, that would be me,” Valjean blinked, thrown off by the sudden mood change. “Please, come inside.” He stepped aside and held the door open for Javert, who marched into the hut. “Take a seat. Cup of tea?”

“No need for that. I won’t be long.” Javert muttered as he looked around. He had no intention of staying a second longer than necessary.

The interior of the hut was very simplistic and orderly, if not quite as lifeless as Javert’s own flat in London. The only pieces of furniture Javert could see were two chairs and a small round table in one corner of the room. On the walls hung many tools and a framed drawing that was quite ugly, even by Javert’s standards, who prided himself on not taking an interest in aesthetics. The kitchen counters were neat but occupied by large amounts of herbs in various states of drying and a frankly concerning amount of knives. Jean Valjean made his way over and poured himself a mug full of still steaming tea.

“Okay,” Valjean said when he turned around to him, having grown visibly easier being inside his hut. “So, security issues?”

He took a seat in one of the chairs and gestured at the other, inviting Javert to do the same, who entirely missed it and kept standing awkwardly in front of him.

“Yes, it’s in connection to a gang of thieves that we have been after for some time. It’s suspected that they’re planning another heist in connection to Hogwarts. Unfortunately it’s not yet known what their exact target is. Or how they plan to get onto school grounds,” Javert frowned and continued. “What I ask of you is to keep a close eye on the school’s premises, and report anything suspicious either to me or to Professor Bienvenu, be it strangers appearing in the area or students behaving peculiarly.”

“Criminals?” Valjean asked, astonished. “Does that mean you’re here undercover, then? On a mission?”

“No,” said Javert brusquely. “I was sacked.”

“Sacked?”

“Suspended,” conceded Javert, turning towards one of the windows, peering up at the big clock tower. He noted two finely crafted candlesticks with flickering candles in them standing on the windowsill, burning despite the sun shining brightly outside.

“Oh,” Valjean still looked confused, but he nodded. “Then why are you–”

“It’s none of your business,” spat Javert and turned around abruptly.

“Sorry, I didn’t mean to pry,” said Valjean, raising his hand in a calming manner as if Javert was one of the unpredictable forest-dwelling creatures he worked with. “But how are they to enter Hogwarts? It’s probably the most impenetrable place after Azkaban.”

“The investigation is only at its beginning,” replied Javert. “Meaning we can only guess. But all the clues indicate that their next target is in line with their usual targets – an artifact of either great monetary worth or magical power that a third party is interested in.”

“Artifact? There are hundreds, if not thousands of those here.” Valjean said after taking a sip of his tea. “And they’re all very valuable.”

“You don’t say,” sneered Javert. “Just keep an eye on the grounds, that’s all I’m asking for now. If there’s further evidence I’ll fill you in if it’s necessary.”

“Okay. You know where to find me.” said Valjean. He was still looking at Javert inquiringly.

“Alright, then,” said Javert lamely and cleared his throat. He nodded at Valjean shortly, then turned to leave before the other could get up to see him out.

Just as he reached the door a knock sounded from outside which made him stop in his tracks.

“It’s me!” A girl’s voice called from outside. Javert turned to Valjean who got up quickly and frowned. That voice sounded somehow familiar. Did the other expect someone? This early in the morning?

“Who is that?” Javert looked at Valjean suspiciously. “Why is she here? Students aren’t allowed outside before classes.”

“She’s, well,” Valjean hesitated. At that moment the door flew open and Javert recognized the brunette girl he had met on his train ride to Hogwarts.

“Papa!” She said happily but stopped on the spot when she noticed Javert. “Oh, Professor Javert. I’m so sorry, I didn’t know that someone was here. Were you talking about something important?”

“Yes,” said Javert. “And morning classes will begin soon. You better not be late.”

“Oh, alright, sorry,” she apologized again and ducked her head sheepishly. “I’ll come sometime later then, Papa.” She looked at Valjean, who only managed to nod at her, and rushed outside again.

“You have a daughter?” Javert asked, raising an eyebrow after the door was slammed shut again and the tension in the hut reappeared. “You didn’t when I arrested you, it wasn’t in the files.”

“I adopted Cosette when I was in the Muggle world,” confessed Valjean. “About three years ago. She’s now in her third year at Hogwarts.”

“Third year,” Javert repeated when he went through his imaginary case files. “So you’ve been here for the same amount of time. Was it because of that girl?”

“Yes and no,” answered Jean Valjean, this time it was him evading Javert’s watchful gaze. “But I prefer not to talk about it right now.”

“Fine,” said Javert. Without any further words, he turned around and left. Valjean only stared after him.

 

After Javert had left, Jean Valjean sat down again, eyed his cup and downed the rest of the lukewarm tea. He let out a deep breath and rubbed at his temples. What a morning. Valjean, contrary to Bahorel’s belief, did indeed sleep but rarely enough. Seeing Javert after all these years had tired him out more than waiting up for unruly students traipsing around the Forbidden Forest at night. Seeing his face alone, the light piercing eyes under his dark brows fixating on him once again, brought back distant memories from years ago, memories Valjean thought he’d repressed long enough to be forgotten, but now seemingly more vivid than ever.

Unlike Javert suspected, Jean Valjean wasn’t a troublemaker from an early age. Quite the opposite. Born to a Muggle family in a small village, his only trouble was that his parents died much too soon, and he was raised by his older sister Jeanne whom he adored. He had no knowledge of the existence of the Wizarding World. Unlike many Muggle-born witches and wizards, he hadn’t even noticed great outbursts of magical ability, just little hints of something unusual to come. And then it did, in the form of Professor Bienvenu, at the time still a regular Professor, knocking at his door on his eleventh birthday and telling him and his sister about Hogwarts. He had been sorted into Hufflepuff and things seemed to be looking up. His abilities were not outstanding but solid, his sister married and had children of her own, but in his sixth year, something happened that got him expelled and his wand taken from him.

He had only meant to help, really. His brother-in-law, who was a tree-pruner, had been crushed and trapped underneath a tree that had fallen in the wrong direction. Everyone in the small village had come running, including Jean Valjean. He couldn’t just stand by when he knew for a fact that he was able to help. But even with his magic he had been too late. And he had been seen. Magical Law Enforcement came and didn’t listen to a single word he tried to say and getting angry with them only made everything worse.

Expelled, he went back to his sister, who was now widowed with seven children. He was 16 years old, had no education to speak of, no work experience. It was a hopeless situation. He worked as a waiter, a dishwasher, any job that he got. At the age of 26, he was a truck driver. His youngest nephew fell seriously ill and they were still in desperate need of money. When one of his colleagues offered him an ‘unusual driving arrangement’ for 5000 quid, no questions asked, no information given, he agreed to take it.

A few days later he was arrested and sentenced to five years in prison.

In his fourth year, the news reached him that his nephew was dying. He couldn’t wait any longer; he had to get to his family somehow. He tried it the muggle way and was recaptured. He was transferred to a high-security prison, with another ten years added to his sentence. The contact with his sister had broken off. He didn’t even know if she knew where he had been taken and the next time he got news from her, she had died.

Jean Valjean was devastated. He thought about his nieces and nephews. He had to see them. Had to make sure they were all right and well taken care of. His grief, anger and despair managed to do what even as a child had never happened to him: he lost control over his magic.

Official reports said that it must have been a gas leak. The explosion destroyed a good part of the building, luckily killing none of the inmates, only injuring a few who were buried under the rubble. Everyone could be saved, except Jean Valjean, who since then had been confirmed missing, presumed dead. None of the Muggles was any the wiser, but the Improper Use of Magic Office was informed about this eruption of illicit magical use as soon as it happened, and the Magical Law Enforcement Patrol was sent after Jean Valjean.

Valjean had been able to Apparate in the chaos following his outburst, but had Splinched his leg in the process. It was Javert who traced and arrested him, even before he could make a single inquiry after his sister’s children.

And then…

A small hand on his arm tore him from his melancholic musings. Cosette smiled at him shyly and pulled up the other chair to sit close to him.

She fidgeted from one side to the other, then whispered conspiratorially, “I didn’t actually return to the castle. I snuck around the hut to the back and waited till Professor Javert was gone. But I didn’t eavesdrop, I promise!”

Valjean chuckled at his daughter’s almost comical earnestness. “That’s alright, dear. I’m happy that you came back. Aur–, ah, Professor Javert and I were only talking a bit about work. We were quite finished when you came barging in.”

He opened the cupboard to take out Cosette’s mug. She had transfigured it herself from a very ugly old trinket and was very proud of the delicate leaf patterns she managed to charm around the rim. He filled it up halfway with some tea that was still warm.

“Do you and Professor Javert know each other, Papa?” Cosette asked.

“No, not really,” Jean Valjean answered almost too quickly. He paused for a second. “I met him for the first time today. He’s the new DADA professor, I’ve heard? How is he?”

“I wouldn’t know, he’s only teaching the N.E.W.T.-level classes,” she replied. “But he was in the same compartment with me, Éponine and Gavroche on the Hogwarts Express. He seemed mighty serious, stared at his papers the whole time like he wanted to set them on fire. I think he had a headache.”

Valjean smiled into his tea. From all he heard and knew about the Thénardier siblings, they were probably the reason for his headache. He almost pitied the man.

“What kind of work were you talking about? Professor Bienvenu mentioned that Professor Javert was an Auror before he came here. Is something going on?”

“Oh, nothing in particular. He just wanted to make sure there was no one trying to sneak out to the Dark Forest.” Jean Valjean said evasively. “Might be because he's teaching DADA; he feels particularly responsible.”

Cosette looked at him with her bright blue eyes, as if she was trying to determine whether he was telling the whole truth to her. But she decided to let it drop.

“The tea is lovely, Papa. What tea is this?”

“Just some flowers,” said Jean Valjean. “Roses, jasmine, and so on. But say, what brought you here this morning? You should tell me before you have to head back.”

“Oh, it was nothing important,” shrugged Cosette. “I just wanted to see you. I got up quite early and there’s still some time left until my Charms class starts.”

“Well then,” said Valjean, patting her head gently. “How was your week until now? How were your new electives?”

“It was great!” Cosette’s face lit up almost instantly. “Care for Magical Creatures was sooo cool. We went to the Forbidden Forest! I’ve never actually been inside before!”

“True, true. I saw you passing by that day,” nodded Jean Valjean. “Better not make it a habit though, right? Only a couple of hours ago I had to collect a few students who were sneaking into the forest.”

Cosette’s eyes went wide but she knew that her father wouldn’t tell her any more details. Instead she continued to tell him happily about the Hippogriff they'd met and made friends with. Jean Valjean listened quietly and made some comments here and there, just like they always did until Cosette really had to hurry to make it on time to her morning classes, leaving Jean Valjean on his own again.

 

Yearning for the weekend to begin was an entirely new experience for Javert. In his school and working days he dreaded any days off, avoided vacations and spent as little time outside of his professional occupation as possible. Now, for the first time, he longed for his working hours to end. The outlook to spend two whole days with as little people as he could possibly manage was favorable to say the least.

Of course that didn’t mean he’d twiddle his thumbs and do nothing, no, quite on the contrary. He had classes to prepare, homework to mark, and most importantly, he had to further investigate the lead on the Patron-Minette. And one very out of breath but cheerful headmaster had caught up with him on his way towards the staff room. He informed him that tomorrow at 9 am sharp, his presence would be required to have a little talk with both him and M. Gisquet. ‘Nothing to worry about, Javert, just a little chat about how he’s getting on, nothing more.’ Javert hoped fervently that the headmaster lied and M. Gisquet had come to either sack him and therefore free him from his teaching obligations or to inform him he was actually here to investigate undercover just like Valjean had guessed.

Valjean. Javert groaned internally. No, he was not going to think about that now. He had pulled himself together not to confront Professor Bienvenu about employing the convict when they stood in the middle of a hallway. Tomorrow, yes, that would suffice. The Valjean situation wasn’t all that relevant anyway, or so he told himself.

More important was his lead; he couldn’t let it rest. Even the possibility that he was spending all his time on a potential crime scene, not to pursue and exhaust all his resources was unthinkable. The most pressing subject was the object of interest. If it were possible to identify this piece of future evidence, it could a) be guarded, preventing the crime and b) set up as a trap, catching the thieves.

But rightfully noted by a certain someone, Hogwarts was home to an extensive number of valuable and rare objects, so where to start was a question not easily answered. Javert suspected that it couldn’t involve an object of moderate worth, since the target’s value would need to outweigh the risk of infiltrating Hogwarts.

To start somewhere, he went to the library to consult Mlle. de Blemeur. She had been the school’s librarian since before Javert’s own school days. Strict but not unkind, she was a notable scholar on the topic of languages that no living person spoke anymore and could often be seen conversing in Latin with the Fat Friar, resident ghost of Hufflepuff. Back in the days, Javert had spent a great deal of time in the library halls and his relationship with Mlle. de Blemeur amounted to a mutual respect of the sanctity of quiet and otherwise polite disinterest in each other.

It was therefore surprising to Javert when upon his return the woman greeted him quite warmly and familiarly. He noted that her voice was entirely unfamiliar to him, but then again it wasn’t very surprising that he had not heard her speak much. They quickly fell back into their usual quiescence and she went on to accurately point him to a shelf of literature exactly catering to his field of research, where he subsequently got lost for the next hours.

It had gotten dark outside and only the lamp next to Javert threw light on the yellowing pages in front of him, when suddenly he heard a voice directly beside him.

“I’m going to close up for today, Professor Javert, is that alright with you?”

Mlle. de Blemeur stood beside him, and even while he was sitting they nearly had the same height. Javert cleared his throat. “Just Javert, please, Mademoiselle. Then I’d better pack up for the day.”

“Oh, there’s no need for that,” the old librarian smiled. “It may not be the case for students, but professors are of course allowed into these rooms after hours. Just make sure to put up the Locking Charms before you leave and place the books back into their correct spots. But I’m sure you know that.”

The thought that he would be able to stay late hadn’t even crossed Javert’s mind. Apparently being a professor did have its perks after all. “Thank you, yes, of course. If that would be possible, I’d like to stay a bit longer. Um, good night then.”

“Good night to you, too,” she chirped before soundlessly disappearing between the bookshelves. Once again a complete silence fell over the halls, only occasionally disrupted by the sound of a page being turned.

 Thunk !

The noise startled Javert and he nearly ripped into the page he was holding. He sprang to his feet, his wand drawn. He didn’t know how long exactly he had been sitting and reading, the clock had struck midnight some time ago and he definitely hadn’t noticed anyone coming into the library after Mlle. de Blemeur had left.

Slowly and as silently as he was able, he made his way along the tall shelves, peering into the passages between them that were obstructing his watchful gaze. His wand held on chest level, he stalked towards where he suspected the noise had come from.

Turning around a corner that marked the entrance to the Restricted Section, he saw three or four books lying on the ground in between two shelf racks. There was no one to be seen. No more noise, nothing. But at the same time it was highly unlikely, if not impossible, that the books had been left there under the pristine care of the librarian. A small, nearly entirely indiscernible movement caught his attention and with a shatter something broke only a few feet behind him.

Javert whirled around, but simultaneously footsteps raced from where he had just been, heading towards the front hall and out of the library. He made his way after them as hurriedly as he could, all while still seeing nothing, following them outside and into the corridor, only then risking sending a stunning spell after the intruder. Standing outside the library halls he had to accept that whatever – whoever it was – they had gotten away.

Examining the scene in the library, he found that the shattered object had been a bottle of ink. He knelt down and smelled the black substance before vanishing it. It was normal ink, nothing peculiar about it. Apparently the intruder had only been clumsy and knocked it down on their way out.

Javert turned around and grimly sorted the books back into their designated spaces. In his mind, this was no coincidence. No student or for that matter anyone else would leave their beds to seek out the Restricted Section using an invisibility potion for nothing. And the books were knocked over in a very peculiar section. Sensitive material concerning the Hogwarts history and grounds.

But there was something that escaped his notice.

One book was missing.

In which various people find out about various things.

Finally, it was here. Javert’s first and well deserved weekend as a professor at Hogwarts had come. Sadly that didn’t mean that he had time for himself, since Professor Bienvenu expected him in his office at 9 a.m. on Saturday. Javert got up early like he always did and steeled himself to meet with his boss Gisquet, and whatever he might have come to Hogwarts for.

He arrived at the Headmaster’s Office after the gargoyle at the entrance had let him pass and stood in front of its doors a few minutes early. He was just about to knock when he heard voices already talking inside. Almost without meaning to, Javert's hand halted mid-air and he started to listen. The voices were muffled through the heavy wooden door, but like all of his senses Javert’s hearing was sharp and he recognized it was Gisquet talking.

“He’s been like this since he started working at the Auror Office,” said Gisquet. “But you must know just as well as I do, he was your student after all.”

“Just like you were once,” Professor Bienvenu reminded him. “Professor Javert had always been a very earnest student and a very reliable head boy. He has good instincts as well, almost never making a mistake when reporting any goings-on. I’d be in favor of listening to what he has to say.”

“Professor Bienvenu,” said Gisquet, his tone getting more impatient. “It’s not my intention to question neither my employees’ skills nor their instincts. But my decision was about his well-being more than me doubting his capacities. In short, he really needs a break from work. I would have ordered him to stay at home but he’d have gone stir-crazy. Not to mention what a waste of a good officer it would’ve been. And then you made the gracious offer of granting him a teaching post here...,” Gisquet made a pause, then continued, “I just don’t think that he’s in the right state of mind to carry out any kind of investigation, especially after, you know, the  incident.”

Javert felt a lump form in his throat. He had definitely heard enough. He looked at his pocket watch, noting it was nine o’clock sharp. He knocked on the door and the voices fell silent.

“Please come in,” called Professor Bienvenu. “Ah, Professor Javert, how nice to see you. Punctual as always.”

The short old man came towards him with a welcoming gesture. Javert felt his hand being shaken warmly before turning to Gisquet, who greeted him similarly but shook his hand much more vigorously.

“Javert, it’s good to see you. How are things going? Are you enjoying your teaching duties so far?”

“Quite well, thank you, M. Gisquet. The post has been agreeable for the past week. I find that there is much more to be done than I initially thought.”

“I assumed your active duty would be helpful preparing your lessons and teaching the students some real life defense and offense?”

“The preparations are not the issue, Sir. I observed myself to be quite suited for the organizational part of teaching.”

“Ah, the kids keeping you on your toes then?” Gisquet’s tone was jovial as if remembering his own school days only too well.

Javert hesitated. “Yes. There are just – many students. Most of them I don’t know very well and therefore my expectations of them and their limits can be flawed. Some of them strike me as bright, others not so much. There have already been a few accidents, none too serious of course,” he added hastily and trailed off.

Gisquet had looked at him intently while Javert spoke and now nodded approvingly. “Sounds to me as if you’re taking your duties as seriously as I hoped and Headmaster Bienvenu knew you would.”

Javert frowned at this in his opinion undeserved praise. “I only agreed to the position because of your insistence, Sir. If I would hold myself as accountable for my actions as I ought to, I would have rejected your efforts and the headmaster’s kindness outright and demanded my dismissal. It is only my own weakness and attachment to my former position in your employ that I’m here, in hope to be able to return one day.”

Professor Bienvenu laid a hand on his arm. “And you will, Javert. Your honesty does you credit, but never mind your objective taking on this position, your conduct until now has been highly satisfactorily. And while I will be observing you as Head Auror Gisquet and yourself have asked me to, I have no doubt that you’ll help your students excel at their Wizarding Tests.”

Javert opened his mouth but Gisquet interrupted him with a voice that Javert knew tolerated no contradiction. “We have talked about this before, Javert, there will be no further discussion. You will teach here for the year, let yourself rest a bit, then decide whether you feel fit to return to active service or not.”

Javert resigned. It was all mostly working out in his favor and a man less strict than him would have taken pride in his employer’s insistence of his good conduct. But being himself it felt not entirely right. Despite his feelings he let the matter drop. And for the rest of their meeting it was mostly him and Professor Bienvenu speaking about lesson plans, questions he had about grading and the possible prevention of accidents in dueling practice. The last point led Gisquet to laconically question if “accidentally” injuring each other wasn’t the whole point of students’ dueling, for which Bienvenu gently reprimanded him as if he still was his student.

It was only when his first week of teaching had been discussed to full satisfaction and Gisquet readied himself to take his leave that Javert came to speak of the incident which took place the prior night.

“There was someone who was sneaking around. They bumped into the bookshelves and also knocked over a bottle of ink,” said Javert. “Although I failed to capture them, the possibility that it has something to do with the Patron-Minette case is high.”

“Listen to me, Javert,” said Gisquet, shrugging on his coat. “Maybe it was simply a stray owl that’d escaped its cage or something. Not to mention that there’s no solid evidence that the Patron-Minette really is planning to steal something from Hogwarts in the first place. Just a whisper.”

“There was an informant. And there might be something missing from the library. From the Restricted Section.”

Gisquet still said nothing while reaching for his briefcase but Javert noted that the headmaster’s eyes remained attentively on him.

“There are enough clues,” grumbled Javert. “I’ve started investigations with less.”

Gisquet glanced at him and sighed. “Javert. Just try to enjoy your time as a teacher a bit more before you go investigating again. See this as a long break from work, alright?”

Javert didn’t answer. It was clear that neither he nor his boss were going to yield.

“Anyways, that would be it. I’m afraid I have to leave now, my presence is required at a meeting at the ministry,” concluded Gisquet. “Thank you, Professor Bienvenu, for your time. And Javert, just do me the favor and try not to think too much about, well,  everything. I will be back in a month’s time, see how you’re getting on.”

He nodded at Professor Bienvenu and at Javert, turned around and disappeared in the fireplace in a whirl of green flames. Javert turned to leave the Headmaster’s Office as well but Professor Bienvenu gestured him to stay. He turned around quite awkwardly, still feeling uncomfortable about the conversation, having just been reprimanded for what Gisquet surely deemed premature conclusions.

“I’m sure Head Auror Gisquet only wants the best for you,” said Professor Bienvenu softly. “Although I think that you should feel free to do whatever you want to do. That includes pursuing any justified or even unjustified suspicions.”

“Do you believe in what I said?” asked Javert with barely concealed surprise.

Professor Bienvenu perched himself on the edge of his desk that was littered with all kinds of papers, small bottles and undistinguishable magical objects. He looked Javert in the eye and gave a small sigh. “I’m not completely convinced that there is anything serious going on. Gisquet told me about the informant himself who said Hogwarts would be the target of – a gang of thieves, if I understood correctly? You have to admit that other than this statement there is almost no proof to support your theory. On top of that, it would mean that Hogwarts is in serious trouble if someone in contact with this group has already got as far as infiltrating the school library. What I am saying is that you should, if you deem it necessary, carry on with your investigation. As long as it doesn’t interfere with your teaching activities, of course.”

Thus validated Javert nodded shortly. “I would like to check the entire school.”

The headmaster smiled. “Of course, Javert, that can be arranged. You never did anything in halves after all. You’re probably most familiar still with the school itself, it’s been 20 years since you were here, but nothing changes in Hogwarts,” he added almost wistfully. “Well, other than the forest. You probably need some assistance with the grounds. Maybe you can go with our groundskeeper; he knows the school premises very well. Jean Valjean, have you met him yet?”

Javert, hearing the name of the former convict he had resolved not to think about, grit his teeth.

“Jean Valjean,” he said bluntly, “is a criminal.”

Professor Bienvenu blinked. After a short pause he said, “Oh dear, I think there might be a misunderstanding.”

“A misunderstanding? I myself arrested him ten years ago.”

“I should have remembered that you were likely involved with his case at the time. Oh well, things begin to slip my mind these days,” the headmaster started and, noting Javert’s obvious impatience, continued. “Jean Valjean, as you are aware, was arrested for improper use of magic, am I correct? It was because he used accidental wandless magic – one frequently occurring in young children – after his sister had died. And there is a reason why children are exempt from the law. I was there at his trial and convinced the Wizengamot to reduce his sentence to one year of community work. He served his time dutifully. After that I lost sight of him for a few years when he returned to live in the Muggle world. But when his daughter was admitted to Hogwarts, I offered him a job as the groundskeeper here.”

“But he was expelled from Hogwarts,” retorted Javert. “And he was in Muggle prison at the time as well. I don’t think it’s safe for Hogwarts to have someone who has no qualification and a criminal record to guard it.”

He never got the opportunity to hear the verdict on this case and it did surprise him what Professor Bienvenu just told him. He had been summoned only briefly to testify as he had been one of the first officers on scene and the one to arrest the man responsible for destroying the side of a prison building in plain sight of Muggles. And what a sight it had been, nothing short of a miracle that nearly no-one got seriously injured.

“He was expelled from Hogwarts because he tried to use magic to rescue his brother-in-law. He stayed the summers with his family, all Muggles,” said Professor Bienvenu. There was sadness in his eyes. “It was a tragedy. I wouldn’t have expelled him if I were Headmaster at the time. But unfortunately I was merely a professor and had to watch him leave. You came quite some time later and never had the pleasure of meeting my predecessor. He wasn’t keen on, ah,  compromising  the school’s reputation by taking on wizards and witches of all backgrounds and families.”

The tone of the current headmaster betrayed his calm demeanor while discussing the late headmaster. Javert caught his eyes and nodded. The brief description fit what he had heard about the former headmaster and what he had been: ancient and pure-blooded from an equally as ancient and pure-blooded family who chose their values accordingly. He himself, probably half-blooded but not sure about that fact, coming from the lowest social class and having been raised in a Muggle orphanage, did not have to imagine what he’d have thought about him. Bienvenu noted the slightly sympathetic nod Javert has given him and continued.

“He got into Muggle prison because he needed money to pay for his nephew’s medical treatment. He was young and trusted the wrong people. I’m not excusing that fact, only saying that he paid for his mistakes dearly and bore the consequences.” He paused for a moment. “Javert, what I’m trying to say is, Jean Valjean is a good man. He is one of the most compassionate and kind-hearted people I know. That’s why I testified for him in the Wizengamot and chose to hire him. If you find yourself not being able to trust him despite his best efforts to become an upstanding citizen, at least trust my good judgment.”

Javert stayed silent but his thoughts were racing. After hearing the whole story from the headmaster, he felt something akin to shame. Though he still thought that Jean Valjean, whatever Muggle crimes he’d committed, wasn’t the best choice for the post of the groundskeeper at a school, he recognized he had no leg to stand on. Following his own logic, not only was he similarly unsuited for his teaching position, he’d jumped to conclusions without investigating the matter further which was against any Auror protocol. Almost a decade in this profession still hadn’t taught him to completely control his impulses. No wonder he was in his current unpleasant position; it was him, not Valjean who was here on parole.

Javert’s mind was still entirely undecided some long moments later when he realized that Professor Bienvenu was looking expectantly at him. Javert forced himself to speak.

“I see,” he lamely ground out, avoiding Bienvenu’s eyes that were looking warm and twinkly at him which did not help in his confusion. He hastily left the room after bidding the headmaster a polite but absentminded goodbye. The latter reminded him to take it easy, to enjoy the warm September sunshine and not work too much. It was a lovely weekend after all.

 

Javert all but fled the office. After returning to his own office, he ignored the headmaster’s good advice to take some time for himself. Instead he repressed thinking about this morning’s revelations and got to work, marking every single assignment of the previous week and reviewing his plans for the next. After he really could not think of a single other thing to do, he put his teaching schedule aside and picked out possible dates for inspecting the school grounds.

He was still hesitant whether he should seek Jean Valjean out or not, but in the end he was resolved to put the case over anything concerning personal sensibilities. And unfortunately he was certain that it would benefit the case if someone who was familiar with the castle aided him. Leaving the school two decades ago, it was only natural that he had forgotten a lot of the details, not to mention possible hiding places or security loopholes. And he’d rather have Valjean help him than that drunkard Grantaire that called himself the caretaker of Hogwarts, that was for sure.

First, Javert wanted to tell him in person but reckoned it was too much trouble, resulting in him drafting at least five unsatisfying notes that were all crackling in his fireplace before long. In the end he reverted to his old plan, chiding himself not to behave like a fool.

Keeping his plan in mind of simply stating his request, detailing the necessities of his upcoming tour of the school grounds and taking his leave as soon as possible, he passed by clusters of students, the greenhouses, making his way straight to Valjean’s hut. Without thinking further he knocked firmly and waited outside the door, secretly hoping it wouldn’t open. It did.

Jean Valjean stood in the entrance, filling the doorframe. A tea towel in his hand, he looked puzzled as he saw that it was Javert who had appeared at his door this Saturday evening.

“I have an apology to make,” said Javert the moment he opened his mouth, which was not at all what he had planned to say, not even close.

Jean Valjean looked dumbfounded. Then he stepped aside, gesturing towards Javert with his towel. “Well, good evening to you too, Javert. Won’t you come in?”

Javert shook his head emphatically. “I won’t be long. I spoke with Professor Bienvenu this morning; he told me everything I needed to know. I hereby apologize for pointing my wand at you and doubting the legitimacy of your position as groundskeeper.”

“That’s not necessary,” said Jean Valjean. “Your reaction was quite natural. And it’s your duty as an Auror to question everything, isn’t it?”

“I was sacked,” Javert reminded him, remembering Gisquet’s words in the Headmaster’s office earlier this day. “Given leave. At any rate, I denounced you to the headmaster. An apology is the least thing you should except of me.”

Valjean seemed to smile at his somewhat exaggerated explanation and simply shrugged. “I did not intend to expect anything of you. But if you feel that you need to obtain my forgiveness, you have it.”

Javert looked away awkwardly. He felt this was too easy, but just as he was about to disagree with the other man’s generosity, he remembered the reason he had come in the first place.

“There was another request I wanted to discuss with you,” he started, cleared his throat and continued. “I think it necessary to take a survey of the castle and its grounds. You were the groundskeeper for the last two years, correct?” Valjean nodded. “I would like you to help me with my inspection. If you’re available.”

“Is this about what we were talking about before?” Valjean asked and Javert answered in the affirmative. “Alright. I’d suggest starting in the West Wing tomorrow.”

Two weeks later they had managed to inspect most of the West Wing, talking only the absolute minimum as not to disturb the mostly sleeping portraits in the hall and their timid tolerance for each other – or rather Javert’s tolerance for the gamekeeper. The latter showed no sign of discomfort leading his former captor through well-known but remote corridors. He kept inviting him to tea unfailingly after every inspection, although he could guess the answer in advance even as the weather got colder and the grounds more inhospitable day by day.

 

October announced itself by the usual rainy days, only occasionally disrupted by autumnal golden afternoons that got rarer and rarer as the wind got rougher. Only the Quidditch teams seemed more relentless than the weather. Especially the Slytherin and Gryffindor teams who were elected to play the first match of this school year – almost every waking hour they didn’t sit in a stuffy classroom, they were out on the Quidditch pitch training and being blown about by strong gusts of wind.

“Alright, guys, that was good work today! Let’s keep it up!” Feuilly clasped his hands together at the end of this day's practice that seemed to have gone by even faster than usual.

Quidditch practice was getting more and more intense the closer they got to their first match with Slytherin in November, which was now only a month away. Feuilly, who was Gryffindor’s keeper as well as their team’s captain, always stayed behind the longest, going through training strategies again and locking the changing rooms after everyone else had already left.

Courfeyrac and Bahorel were on the team as well, being chaser and beater respectively, and sometimes waited for him in the corridors. Today they wanted to go straight to their dormitory before heading to the Room of Requirements, and they hung around while Feuilly triple checked the lock of the broom closet, ‘just to make sure’. On the way back to the castle Courfeyrac noticed that Feuilly glanced backwards from time to time.

“Feuilly, what’s wrong?” he asked.

“Shh,” whispered Feuilly without even turning to him, “I’ll tell you when we’re in the tower.”

“How are you, children?” asked the Fat Lady who had been occupied arranging the silky pink dress perfectly around her when they reached her painting.

"Jean-Jacques Rousseau,” said Bahorel impatiently.

The Fat Lady glared at him. She waved her hand as if condemning his lack of manners, all but ruining her efforts to make the flimsy sleeves drape elegantly, but still opened the door. The three boys rushed inside and went up the stairs to their dorm rooms in order to change.

“I think that Gavroche is following me,” said Feuilly after Courfeyrac had closed the door.

“Gavroche?” Bahorel asked and sat down. 

Gavroche had just become their team’s new seeker. After their old seeker had graduated they had been quite worried whether they could find a new one who was good enough. But then Madame Ceracchi, the flying instructor, came to Feuilly with this scrawny kid whom she claimed to be the perfect choice. And at the try-outs he definitely proved that their trusted referee had indeed the eyes of a hawk and more than good judgment.

Gavroche was indeed a very talented seeker. Almost the human embodiment of the Golden Snitch, he was jittery and extremely quick, not to mention very good at understanding and carrying out tactics previously discussed. But it was the first time they had a first-year on the team, so frankly sometimes they all didn’t really know how to deal with someone so obviously still a kid. Gavroche was hyper talkative and had millions of questions. He especially admired Feuilly, who was the captain and the oldest team-member. At first he only talked to him a lot during and after practice, but recently Feuilly had noticed that Gavroche was following him everywhere like a puppy would. He spotted the boy several times, be it after his classes, on his way to the library or during the lunch break in the Great Hall.

“The kid’s just curious,” laughed Courfeyrac, “I mean, he’s a first-year.  Everything  is exciting when you’re eleven. Also you’re so cooool, he told me once. He and Jehan should get together and start a fan club.”

He added slyly and only laughed even harder when Feuilly’s face reddened noticeably. Bahorel sat beside them, grinned at his friend and poked him amiably in the side.

“I don’t mind him following me around,” Feuilly sighed, “but what if he finds out about the Room of Requirements?”

“Oh, he won’t,” said Bahorel confidently.

 

He did. The next week Feuilly found Gavroche waiting in front of the Room of Requirements.

After their weekly meeting, he had just stepped out of the room when something small and brunette suddenly jumped out behind a collumn and asked, “What room is this?” 

“Gavroche!” Feuilly almost stumbled. “What are you doing here?”

“I was waiting for you after practice, I had some questions,” said Gavroche, all big eyes and innocence.

Of course, thought Feuilly while running a hand over his face, more  questions. But still, their meeting had gone on for at least two hours, the kid must have been really patient.

“Who is this child?” Enjolras came out of the door and stopped.

“Oh, you’re the Slytherin guy everyone is  always talking about!” exclaimed Gavroche, pointing at the tall blonde who just left the room. And if Enjolras hadn’t been frowning before he definitely was now. He looked at Feuilly questioningly.

“He’s our new seeker,” said Feuilly, “Gavroche Thénardier.”

“You people are meeting here every week, aren’t you?” Gavroche continued, “I followed Feuilly, Bahorel and Courfeyrac here last week, but before I could get to you, you three just vanished! This time I waited long enough to find out.” He looked past Enjolras to catch a glimpse of what’s behind the door. “Is this some kind of secret base?”

Even before Feuilly could open his mouth, he’d already run inside, nearly knocking into Bossuet who just made his way out.

“Who are you?” Joly stood just behind Bossuet and his startled voice echoed through the corridor. Enjolras and Feuilly had no choice but to head back inside, vehemently closing the door behind them. As soon as they were inside, it vanished again.

Gavroche was sitting on one of the couches, bouncing on the seat and looking around him. Feuilly knew that expression on his face: impressed, excited and incredibly curious. It meant that he had at least one hundred questions and wouldn’t stop talking until he’d got all the answers. Or someone stunned him.

“That’s Gavroche, our new seeker,” he said, lamely gesturing to the boy the others were staring at. “He’s, well, he’s been following me around lately.”

“Oh, you’re Feuilly’s little shadow!” Jean Prouvaire gained his composure the fastest and couldn’t help smiling at the boy’s childlike wonder. “I saw him trailing after you a few times in the great hall,” he added explanatorily. “And in the corridors. And by the greenhouses.”

Gavroche beamed at him, not at all perturbed that he’d been spotted. Feuilly noted that Bahorel and Courfeyrac were elbowing each other with barely concealed glee until he fixed them with an indignant ‘I told you so’ in his eyes and the smirking stopped. Enjolras hadn’t noticed, stood a bit lost in the room and made a sign with his hands, silently asking everyone what they should do now. A bit of shrugging.

He sighed. A few seconds later, he turned towards Gavroche. “Can you keep secrets?”

“You bet,” nodded Gavroche proudly. “Never told a secret in my life!”

Enjolras squinted while Gavroche looked happily back at him. Then the Slytherin sharply nodded once and that was that. “Alright, Gavroche, I trust you will keep quiet about this place.”

“So this  is a secret base!”

“Yes,” answered Enjolras with gravity normally reserved for one of his more long winded speeches. “It is highly secret, and nobody should know about it except you and us. Do not tell anyone, understood?”

“Yes, yes!” Gavroche's voice was unbridled enthusiasm. He had started bouncing again. “What is this base for? What are you doing here? Are you all friends? But you aren’t even from the same house!”

“Slow down, kid, slow down,” Feuilly made his way over to the first-year and sat down beside him. “Yes, we’re all from different houses, but we’re much better friends than with most of our housemates. These three,” he gestured at Enjolras, Combeferre and Courfeyrac, “have known each other since forever and they started this club. We others just gradually became friends and joined in.”

“Okay, but what do you  do?” Gavroche was relentless. “You can’t just sit around all day talking, that’s  boring.”

Some of them changed sheepish glances that all seemed to say the same thing – Tell as little as possible, as much as necessary. Even if they trusted that Gavroche had his heart in the right place, this was no time to explain the great House Abolition Project to a first-year who obviously felt a lot of pride for his house.

Jean Prouvaire sat down on his other side. “Look, Gavroche. Firstly, just talking with people you really like is very fun and not boring at all. That’s why we are here despite all being from different houses. We like each other’s company and it’s quite sad that we only get to see one another in some of the lessons and breaks. You get that right?”

The first-year nodded. “Yeah, ’cause my sister’s in Slytherin and her best friend is in Hufflepuff so they mostly hang out in the hallway which is really not comfy and she complained about it all the time in her letters. People always get so weird about switching tables.”

“Yes, that’s why we made a room of our own,” Enjolras interjected. “So there are no bounds keeping us from forming genuine connections instead of the prefabricated ones that are unanimously encouraged.”

Gavroche blinked and turned back to Prouvaire who seemed to hold himself back from laughing. “Like you wanna be special friends with other students, too? Like you wanna sit with Feuilly at lunch?”

Feuilly coughed and somewhere behind them Courfeyrac cackled after mouthing ‘special friend’ to Combeferre and winking.

The other rolled his eyes before explaining, “We work on some projects as well that none of the other students know about. Mostly we want to make Hogwarts more unified. Less infighting between the houses, more room to grow friendships between them and so on.”

“And they take quite some planning and explaining,” Gavroche looked like he was gonna ask another question but Feuilly interjected. “And if we did that today, you know, started from the beginning you would miss dinner with your friends and,” he paused for a dramatic effect, “Quidditch practice, too. And that would be unacceptable!”

Gavroche nodded immediately. “I can hear it some other time! No problem, Captain!”

The previously tense mood dissipated and the older students, especially the Gryffindors, chuckled. Bahorel announced that he was going to leave before everything in the Great Hall had been eaten by hungry little children who didn’t respect their elders. Gavroche sprung up to follow him but turned around one last time to Enjolras whom he had correctly identified as the mysterious if incomprehensible leader.

“This is so cool, I will definitely come again to go against the, um, bounds of the houses and such,” he stated, to which the older student curtly nodded.

“But we’re so gonna beat you Slytherins in November, just wait!”

“I’m sure you will,” said Prouvaire indulgently, still smiling. He wasn’t a big Quidditch lover, but was also rooting for the Gryffindors. In fact, since Enjolras really wasn’t a fan of his own house and their Gryffindor friends were all on the Quidditch team, nobody in this room was particularly excited for Slytherin to win.

 

The unforeseeably long meeting in the Room of Requirements had ended. The older students had sent Gavroche to change for dinnertime earlier in an obvious ploy to get rid of the young boy and talk briefly amongst themselves before going down to the Great Hall as well.

Gavroche didn’t mind in the slightest, for him it was part of the mission not to divulge any information, not even unconsciously. After all, a group of older students with a first-year would inevitably draw attention. And he wanted nothing to do with anything that might compromise his position with that “cool secret organization”. Even if it meant lying to his sister who, as soon as he arrived in the Great Hall, noticed him and made her way over. Seeing that escape was impossible, he schooled his features into a neutral expression which in itself was suspicious enough.

“Gavroche, I’ve been looking for you for an eternity!” Éponine grabbed her brother by his collar and pulled him to a halt. “Were there any new letters from father addressed to me?”

“Nope,” said Gavroche without even looking back, “let go of me, I need to eat before going to practice, I’m almost late already!”

“You’re gonna get there soon enough, you brat! Again, are you sure?” pressed Éponine, her voice rising. “Did you even check or are you just telling me nonsense again? I bet you didn’t check!”

“Damn it, Éponine! There were no letters at all! As if our father would write to us in the first place!” shouted Gavroche. They’re exchange made some students glance up from their dinner and murmur to each other as they passed by. Cosette, who had kept behind giving the siblings some space, now stepped closer with a worried look on her face, and reached out for her friend. Éponine glared at Gavroche and then simply let go of him, the latter sprinted away like an arrow after making sure she saw how he blew raspberries at her.

“So it’s official,” Éponine said as she turned towards Cosette who tugged at her sleeve to lead her outside into the corridor, away from the Great Hall and its stearing students. “I can’t go to Hogsmeade. Ugh, I wish Gavroche would’ve just been his usual scatter-brained self and forgot to tell me.”

“He did seem quite sure...”

“Yes, yes. I know he wouldn’t lie to me about this. He’s annoying for sure but he’s not like that. Maybe I shouldn’t have said that,” mumbled Éponine.

Cosette smiled and patted her shoulder kindly. “Calm down a bit and you can talk with him again tomorrow. I still have a chocolate frog, give it to him, he never says no to sweets.”

Éponine looked at her from below her dark brows and smiled half-heartedly. “Thanks. I wasn’t even mad at the brat, not really. It just sucks that father forgot.”

“There must be something we can do about it!” Cosette said, “Ah, how about we ask my papa?”

“I don’t think that would work. It must be the parents who sign the permission form.”

“Maybe you can talk to Professor Gillenormand? He’s the Head of your house; he ought to be able to give you special permission.”

“As if! He only cares about his ancient boring stories and ancient boring families,” Éponine sneered. “That old bugger wouldn’t give a shit!”

“Language, Mademoiselle Thénardier. Two points from Slytherin.” said the chiding voice of Sister Simplice, who happened to pass by.

“Damn this old toad,” said Éponine after she was out of sight. Cosette giggled, hiding her mouth behind her right hand, the left still slung around her friend’s shoulder who couldn’t help grinning back at her. For a while they were walking in comfortable silence.

“I shall ask papa nevertheless,” decided Cosette finally. “It would be terrible for you to stay here alone.”

“I’m sure there are other people who didn’t get their parents’ permission,” shrugged Éponine. “Don’t worry too much about it, I’ll be fine. Hogsmeade isn’t that cool anyways.”

“You know that’s a lie, Éponine! We’ve been talking about going to Hogsmeade together for ages. I’d really hate to go without you!” said Cosette who never truly hated anything but looked like she might mean it this time.

Almost mechanically they made their way over to the Groundskeeper’s Hut. Except for her own dormitory and the Quidditch pitch, Éponine spent a surprising amount of time in the small hut at the edge of the forest for someone who neither had a great partiality for wild animals nor plants nor for adventures in the Forbidden Forest. It would have been surprising if not for the fact that she had become friends with the groundskeeper’s daughter in their first year together at Hogwarts. Or rather the Slytherin girl had been pressured into being friends by the unexpectedly stubborn Hufflepuff until she had given up any remaining pretenses of wanting to be alone and isolated. Éponine first had thought Cosette to be a very timid and quiet girl, prim and neat to a fault and therefore probably judgemental towards someone like herself. Her parents, the Thénardiers, despite being pure-blood, had not raised her and her younger siblings to be a decent god-fearing member of society in the least. Her childhood remained a dark and dusty stain in her more than foggy memory, her having been left to her own devices most of the time except for the irregular discipline.

This made an even bigger contrast to the warmth and care she was met with by Cosette’s father, Jean Valjean, whom she like the older boys liked to call M. Leblanc, not just for his white hair but his bright demeanor. He was so kind, she thought, sitting by the fireplace in the hut as she listened to Cosette rambling on about something new that she had learned about and pressing their hands together from time to time. Even though she was still brooding, Éponine already felt better sipping tea from a big cup.

“Papa?” Cosette’s voice pulled her from her musings. “Can I ask you something important?”

“Sure, darling,” Valjean turned around to face the children. “What’s the issue?”

“Do you think you could sign the permission form for Éponine? Her father didn’t send her one back and she says Professor Gillenormand definitely wouldn’t allow her to go. But I really don’t wanna go alone!”

Her father had stilled in his movements, thinking about it. He sat down beside them in front of the fire. “Cosette, I don’t think I’ll be able to do that. Not that I don’t want to,” he reassured her as she opened her mouth to protest, “but sadly I’m not in the position of Éponine’s guardian.”

Éponine, who had already expected a similar answer, patted her friend’s small hand, Cosette looking decidedly more dejected than she.

“But that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t try,” Valjean continued. “When is this trip of yours?”

“The weekend before Halloween! You mean it, Papa? You will try?”

He smiled at them, his eyes twinkling. “Of course. Also, Halloween. Hm, I think there might be some errands I have to run that day in Hogsmeade. I may not be Éponine’s guardian but as groundskeeper I should definitely be able to escort some students into town. And while I do my things you might as well do yours, who’s to say?”

Cosette laughed and hugged first her father, then her friend who let herself be held and squeezed excitedly. And if her heart swelled with a sudden fierce affection, who was to say?

Rainy but somewhat exciting Autumn days.

October’s days were numbered. The days grew shorter and the nights darker and nearly every day was wetter than the last, the sun only peeking through for a few fleeting minutes each day. The school grounds had transformed into muddy pitches that only the youngest of pupils found joy in splashing around in.

Some of the teachers made it a habit to hand out small portions of Pepper-Up potion at the beginning of their lessons to anyone who even looked as though they were about to sneeze. Javert himself dedicated almost one entire hour to teach his students not one but several cleaning charms, in the order of the incantation’s difficulty. And while some of the older students quietly grumbled about the mundaneness of the task, Javert succeeded in what their parents failed to teach their teenage children for years: Seemingly, describing particularly gruesome anecdotes about tracking criminals by their filth trails and crime scene cleaning had an effect that repetitive nagging couldn’t emulate.

But despite all the grime and rain and sniffling noses towards the end of the month, excitement began to buzz among the students. One evening he couldn’t help but to remark to Jean Valjean that if he didn’t know better he would think that almost the entire student’s body was working towards some troublesome plot. Valjean only laughed his quiet little huff of a laugh and regarded the other man with barely concealed incredulity.

It was a look he had found himself giving Javert quite often since they started their almost nightly inspection walks through Hogwarts. Having started their rounds in the upper floors of the West Wing, they had nearly finished with half the castle. The uncomfortable silence that guided their early walks had first merged into comfortable silence that was now broken by casual remarks and conversation frequently initiated by Valjean and on rarer occasions by Javert. Although Valjean now wouldn’t attribute this to any lack of trust or respect on the younger man’s side, even though Javert still brusquely declined any of his offers to come for tea. Rather he found it could best be described as a perpetual sense of awkwardness and a certain kind of cluelessness Javert showed in regard to anything not relating to his profession or responsibilities. As it was the case now.

“Javert, do you really not know what all the buzz is about?”

Javert looked at him straight, aware that this was one of the cases relating to him missing the obvious. The obvious in his opinion mostly being frivolous and highly irrelevant.

“Quidditch?” he concluded, then frowned. “No, that’s unlikely. The first match is not until November.”

Valjean raised his brows. “I’m surprised you know when the Quidditch season begins. I wouldn’t have taken you to be a fan.”

“I am not,” Javert said drily. “I’ve been told. Repeatedly.”

“Ah, that makes sense. The students adore Quidditch.”

“No matter which class I teach, at least half of the students are on the teams. It’s a hassle to get them thinking about anything but practice, tactics and whatnot.”

“So not a fan then,” Valjean smiled, suddenly curious he asked. “Did you never play?”

“Never. Wasn’t the type.”

“Why not? You’re lean and you wouldn’t have become an Auror unless you had good body awareness.”

“Not as a student I hadn’t. I grew too tall too quickly. Also,“ he cleared his throat awkwardly. “I wasn’t what you called a team player.”

“Nonsense, I’m sure you were just fine,” Valjean suppressed the urge to pat his shoulder in consolation. “People just need to have a bit more empathy.”

Javert barked a laugh. “Slytherin house isn’t exactly known for that.”

That silenced the other for a few moments. Then tentatively Valjean said: “I didn’t know you were in Slytherin.” He hesitated again. “Somehow that doesn’t fit at all.”

Javert looked surprised. “It doesn’t? Well, for you I don’t even have to guess what house you were in, it was in your file.” Then after a pause he added. “Also you Hufflepuffs are entirely too patient and nice towards people most undeserving of it.”

Valjean smiled. “Does that mean you’ll accept my invitation to tea?”

Javert didn’t respond, seemingly distracted by something a few paces ahead, but the fact that for a moment he had looked like he actually considered the offer this time, Jean Valjean counted as a small win.

After a while walking in comfortable silence, Javert suddenly turned back to Valjean. “You never told me what the fuss is about.”

“Oh of course, how forgetful of me. It just seemed so funny to me that you didn’t know. Cosette and her friend’s been talking my ear off forever now. This weekend’s the first Hogsmeade trip of the school year. The notice appeared yesterday in the common rooms.”

“I hadn’t considered that,” a thoughtful frown reappeared on Javert’s features.

“Haven’t you visited since arriving at Hogwarts? You know that as a staff member you can just visit anytime?”

“I suppose I knew that. But I saw no reason to do so.”

“How long has it been for you?”

“I haven’t been there in ages, not since my seventh year. So about twenty years.”

Valjean was stunned for a moment. “You’re only thirty-seven?”

“Yes,” Javert looked sheepish but only for a moment. “You’re hardly old yourself despite the,” he vaguely gestured in Valjean’s general direction, “the hair and such. I know for a fact that you’re not fifty yet.”

“I meant no offense, “Valjean said, raising his hands. “I think you should go. To Hogsmeade I mean, it could be fun.”

Javert looked skeptical at that descriptor but admitted: “Well, I am running short on writing materials, maybe I could go along this weekend.“

Squinting, he added, “Wouldn’t do harm to have another pair of eyes on the students.”

“Yes, yes. That too, of course.”

Javert felt that Jean Valjean was smiling decidedly too much but found himself not able to complain. At least not out loud.

 

Hogsmeade was unchanged. So much so that Javert almost found the streets and porches covered in muddy footprints comical, since he most vividly remembered Hogsmeade around Christmastime. While a perfect snowy wonderland in the winter, almost as if somebody had seen a particularly twee postcard in a gift shop and replicated it stone for stone in the Scottish highlands, this time around the charm was less Father Christmas and more medieval grit. The only cheer there was to be found in this picturesque village were the dozens of Hogwarts students running around the place nearly bursting with excitement, if one liked such a thing. Javert was decidedly undecided. On the one hand most students were behaving themselves, being too preoccupied to gawk at windows to get up to nonsense, on the other their squeaking voices were almost immediately getting on his nerves.

Bypassing Zonko’s Joke Shop he felt seventeen again, which in his opinion was definitely the lowest low of his day. He sullenly walked past chatting and squabbling children, some of whom carried bags that were lightly fuming in places they most likely shouldn’t be, others growing limbs they definitely shouldn’t have. And just like his teenage self, he hunched his shoulders, stayed well clear of big flocks of people and made his way over to Scrivenshaft’s Quill Shop.

Javert was almost certain that the tasteful display of big green shimmering pheasant feather quills hadn’t been changed in the twenty years he was away. This however did somewhat reassure him and without much preamble he went in. Scanning the rows upon rows of varying degrees of fancy stationery, he concluded that his assumption was correct. They still carried the same brands of quills, parchment and ink as they always had. Only the witch behind the counter seemed different to him, but then again that was only natural.

He did not waste much time, only buying the necessary materials to last him for the next two months at least. Especially regarding the ink, Javert took great care in finding the exact brand he always used. He could conjure up some ink well enough but found out, after a mortifying incident where Gisquet had mentioned his nice choice of ink color, that it had the habit of fading into a lovely violet shade after only a few weeks.

It started to rain as he stepped out of Scrivenshaft’s; cold, heavy drops of water kept hitting Javert’s face and the hair in the back of his neck, turning the dark brown strands black. When he made his way over to Tomes and Scrolls, the only bookshop in Hogsmeade, Javert was nearly bowled over by a pair of laughing third-years. It seemed a habit of Hogwarts’ residents to never look where they were going. The girls’ faces seemed familiar to him and the white head of hair that followed them confirmed his suspicions immediately.

“Valjean,” he nodded towards the broad-shouldered man who waved at him almost as excitedly as the girls were timidly looking up at him. Well, one of them did; the other girl was stubbornly not looking at him at all.

“Cosette, Éponine, you can’t just run along without watching where you’re going! Not everyone would be as forgiving as Professor Javert.”

Javert masked a splutter as a cough, looking at Valjean dumbfounded as did Cosette’s friend, he noted.

 “We’re really sorry, Professor,” the smaller girl, Cosette, Javert corrected himself, said and sounded serious enough about it. “We were not paying attention. But Hogsmeade is just so fascinating, isn’t it?”

Cosette beamed, oddly reminiscent of the older man. Javert only nodded, cleared his throat and not agreeing at all said: “I suppose it is. Valjean, you didn’t mention you were going to Hogsmeade, too.”

The girls took this opportunity to hurry along, Éponine dragging Cosette with her who, looking back, waved goodbye at her father. Valjean waved back and turning around he looked sheepishly at Javert, which was quite a funny sight on the older man in his big coat. “Yes, I thought it would be a pleasant surprise running into each other here. Did you manage to find everything?” he asked, obviously changing the topic.

“Of course. It’s not been that long, Valjean. Everything’s still where it used to be. It’s almost disconcerting how little has changed,” he added quietly as if unconsciously voicing a thought out loud. “What are you doing here anyways?”

“I have a few errands to run, but more importantly,” Valjean added with a bright smile. “I’m accompanying my daughter Cosette and her friend Éponine Thénardier. Poor girl didn’t get the permission slip from her parents.”

Javert had opened his mouth and Valjean, misunderstanding his incentive, added hastily. “Don’t worry about that, Javert, I asked the headmaster and he had to agree that under these circumstances an exception could be made for the girl. As long as I had an eye on them on the way from the castle and back, of course.”

“Well, I wasn’t – I hadn’t–,” Javert closed his mouth, sighed and then said cautiously. “Valjean, I wasn’t going to accuse you of, I don’t know, kidnapping your daughter’s friend to bring her to Hogsmeade. It’s just that the name…,” he trailed off.

“Thénardier?”

“Yes, that,” Javert scoffed. “It doesn't surprise me at all that Thénardier wouldn't sign the permission.”

“Oh. Yes, I should have known you were going to mention that and not, you know. Sorry.”

Javert nearly rolled his eyes. “Why are you apologizing?”

“I don’t know, sorry. In any case, Éponine is a good girl and deserves to go to Hogsmeade. You know, she can’t help who her parents are.”

Javert stared down at the mud-covered street. “Yes. I know.”

He turned around sharply. “I was just on my way to Tomes and Scrolls before your daughter nearly ran me over, if you want you could accompany me.”

Jean Valjean smiled but shook his head. “I’d like to but I have to find the girls. I’ll see you for tonight’s inspection though, right?”

Javert confirmed this and nodded at Valjean once. Then he turned on his heel, going in a direction that, noticed Valjean, wouldn’t take him to Tomes and Scrolls at all.

 

At the same time, some of Javert’s sixth-years, Courfeyrac, Combeferre and Enjolras, were sitting at a long table in the corner of the Three Broomsticks. Courfeyrac and Combeferre were sharing a cup of Butterbeer between them while Enjolras sitting across from them had ordered nothing.

Courfeyrac had actually planned to have a date with Combeferre and to drag him to Madam Puddifoot’s Tea Shop across the street just to annoy him like it was his self-imposed life's goal. But when he mentioned going to Hogsmeade to Enjolras earlier that day, the latter claimed that he also had purchases to make and simply tagged along. Not that Courfeyrac really minded − it wasn’t the first time after all that Enjolras had ignored obvious social cues between the three of them and it had never been awkward. Well, at least not for Courfeyrac who lived by the maxim that feeling embarrassed was for the weak hearted. Enjolras knew that they were dating, but he had never shown even the slightest interest in how their relationship was going. In fact, Courfeyrac believed that he and Combeferre could suck each other’s faces for ten hours straight in front of Enjolras and he wouldn’t even bat an eyelid. According to Combeferre, who’d known Enjolras since forever, their dear club leader seemed to have a convenient blind spot that made him overlook all kinds of romance. When he first told him that they were dating, Enjolras simply nodded and said,  don’t let it distract you from the greater good . Which was a fair objection, though not always adhered to. 

So now they were sitting in the dusty but cozy inn and not the frilly tea shop - “Whatever would we want in there?” - and Courfeyrac snatched the glass from Combeferre's hand to take a large gulp himself.

“What do you think we should do with the boy?” Combeferre asked, shaking his head fondly at the other.

“Gavroche?” Courfeyrac immediately knew who he was talking about and put down the glass. “He’ll be fine. During practice we remind him on a daily, nay, hourly basis that he ought to keep it a secret.”

“But now that he’s somehow joined the club,” said Combeferre, “maybe we can make use of him. He’s a first-year, which means that nobody would associate him with us.”

“Wait a second, ’Ferre.” Courfeyrac looked at him and said before Enjolras on the other side of the table could nod in obvious agreement, “you are not trying to tell me that you want him to run errands or something for us? Merlin’s beard, he’s a good kid, but he’s also a handful. It’s hard enough to keep him from asking any more questions. Not to mention the, well,  moral  implications. The boy’s not a house-elf.”

“But−” Combeferre wanted to say something that probably made perfect sense and was much smarter than anything Courfeyrac could come up with, but the latter patted his hand and said:

“Please, ’Ferre. Let’s talk this through at the next meeting, when everyone’s there. It’s date night, remember?”

“Alright,” Combeferre sighed, interlocking their fingers, “No work talk at the table. As you wish.”

Enjolras ignored them as always. Instead, he was intently looking at the other corner of the inn. 

“Who’s the person Montparnasse is meeting?”  he abruptly said a few seconds later.

The two other boys glanced over their shoulders and quickly turned around again when Enjolras hissed at them to be less obvious.

“You sure it’s him?” Courfeyrac asked skeptically. “He looks so − normal.”

Montparnasse was a fellow sixth-year who was in Ravenclaw with Combeferre. He always dressed in extravagantly tailored robes as soon as he got the opportunity to and had the habit to flirt with everyone whom he met. But right now, he was wearing a hat that completely covered his perfectly combed and perfumed wavy brown hair and was wrapped in a plain black cloak. He wasn’t even looking normal, he looked dull which according to him was the worst thing one could be. No wonder Enjolras noticed. 

Enjolras took another fleeting look. “I’m sure it’s him. That person he’s talking to doesn’t seem to be a student, though.”

Montparnasse was leaning over the table, making himself appear smaller, and whispering to the person opposite of him, who had his back turned towards Enjolras.

“That’s weird,” said Combeferre. “Oh wait, he’s leaving.”

Montparnasse walked to the door. He was pulling down the rim of his hat, as if to prevent other people from noticing him.

“Oh, he’s definitely up to something,” said Combeferre at the same time as Courfeyrac whispered. “Let’s follow him.”

It was a natural conclusion for Combeferre to reach. Being Ravenclaw’s prefect, he probably knew better than anybody that Montparnasse acting strangely usually meant trouble. Despite being very intelligent and popular with most of his peers, Montparnasse had also proved himself to be vindictive to a fault should any other student cross him. If there was targeted bullying or an elaborately planned prank going on it was safe to assume that he was somehow involved. He hid it well behind a genuinely charming facade, but Combeferre knew better from having been his roommate for six years now. He would have reported Montparnasse long ago, if he had any solid proof, but he was hard to pin down since he seldomly acted by himself.

Combeferre downed the remaining Butterbeer and made his way out, while the other two boys followed him closely. Montparnasse was walking very fast, gracefully slipping through crowds of chattering younger students that were blocking the streets where the trio almost lost sight of him. Soon they had almost reached the edge of the village.

“Wait, isn’t this the direction of−” Courfeyrac looked at his friends. They came to a halt before the dirt road had a sharp bend and went off into the meadows that resembled a swamp rather than a pasture.

“He’s heading towards the Shrieking Shack,” said Enjolras. Soon his theory was confirmed, as they saw from afar how Montparnasse drew his wand, moved it in a fluid motion through the air and then vanished through the door.

“I thought the door didn’t work,” said Combeferre. 

“It doesn’t,” said Enjolras, “Or rather, it didn’t. Before I found out about the Room of Requirements, I'd actually considered making the Shrieking Shack our headquarters. But I couldn’t get inside − I tried every spell I knew.”

“Heck, how did Montparnasse get inside then?” Courfeyrac frowned. He had, in fact, also attempted to get into the Shack on his first trip to Hogsmeade a few years ago, when he had been even more adventurous, undeterred by experience. “If Enjolras can’t unlock that door, I don’t know who can. Surely not Montparnasse.”

“Maybe we should tell Sister Simplice or Professor Bienvenu?” Suggested Combeferre. “Whatever he’s doing in the Shack, it’s definitely against house rules. But I’m sure this is not his first nor last time in the Shack. The next time we come to Hogsmeade, we should keep an eye on him.”

“Well, right now we can’t follow him inside, that’s for sure,” Courfeyrac concluded. The three boys exchanged looks and decided to let the matter drop − for now at least.

They turned around to make their way back, and Courfeyrac, absent-mindedly thinking about whether he could still drag the others to the Tea Shop, promptly ran into someone when he rounded the corner to get to the main street of the village again.

“Professor Javert,” Courfeyrac said after he’d taken a closer look and realized who it was, “I’m so sorry.”

The tall professor raised an eyebrow and stared at him grimly. But to his surprise, he didn’t take any points from Gryffindor. Instead, he cleared his throat, then with one look at his robes, thoroughly muddied by the dirt road, dryly remarked that he would do good to remind himself of last week’s lesson and simply walked away.

When his friend’s caught up with him, he just said, “I think he was in a good mood. How utterly terrifying.”

 

Time flew by and soon it was the first weekend of November. The Quidditch season had now officially begun. On Sunday the first match of this school year would be played: Gryffindor against Slytherin.

Gavroche lay awake almost the entire night, fraught with tension. He had been a huge Quidditch fan his entire life but had never watched it live. His family was poor and even if they had the money, Gavroche scoffed, his father would never in his  life  even think about taking him and his siblings to a game. The only thing sustaining him and his love for Quidditch were the enchanted pictures accompanying short paragraphs on current matches in  The Daily Prophet  and the occasional letter from Éponine.

He and his sister shared not just a passion for flying but mutually reinforced one another’s fierce competitiveness. After her first year Éponine even brought a broom back home. After he threatened to tell their parents, she reluctantly agreed to teach him the basics – “Just to make sure you don’t die and get me in trouble.” – and even let him steal the broom sometimes. They both knew he did anyways.

It was her as well who told him with her usual aloofness that the Gryffindor Quidditch team would be needing a new seeker this year and he should try his luck, “Honest, even you are better than their last one. First game, I caught the snitch after ten minutes just two inches above his head. Can’t do worse than that. ”

And he did not do worse; in fact, he did better than anyone else.

Even sitting at the Gryffindor house table nearly sick with excitement and already tired out before the game had even started, it was a dream come true. Not only would he experience a game live but playing – actually playing on a team. And things got even better for him because first of all, they were going against Slytherin, and second of all, Éponine would be his direct opponent, for she was the other team’s seeker. Éponine had been absolutely, terribly insufferable after getting the position. She kept bossing him around and criticizing every little move he made on the broom when she returned home after her second year.

He was  so  looking forward to beating her.

“I’m  so  gonna beat you,” he said to her when both teams were standing in the corridor and waiting to enter the locker rooms. Éponine just snorted and brushed past him.

In the locker room, Gavroche and the others changed quickly before turning to their captain to listen to his instructions.

“All right everybody, gather!” Feuilly stepped forward, broom already in hand. “First game of the season but it’s not going to be a breeze, even though at least the weather seems to be on our side today.”

“You all know the Slytherin team well enough, they’re tough, they’re aggressive,” he continued, the team murmuring in agreement. “We’re gonna be the more defensive team whether we want to or not. That’s why I need our interplay to be seamless.”

“Beaters,” he pointed at Bahorel, who looked even bigger than he should with his shoulder pads, and a tall girl in fourth year. “You mainly try to keep the bludgers away from our players and the Slytherin beaters,  who’ll only be happy for an opportunity to strike back. Everyone else is fair game, though no –“

“Yes, yes, no personal grudge detours, no clubbing people over the head,” Bahorel said happily.

“It’s concerning that you already know what I was going to say yet seldom seem to remember mid-game,” Feuilly retorted. “Oh well. Chasers, you know the drill. Avoid trouble, play as one, score whenever possible and switch positions if necessary.”

Courfeyrac, Pontmercy and Moreau, a girl in seventh year who was the team’s designated veteran player nodded gravely. Thanks to the no-substitution-rule and Quidditch being a violent game, they had had more than enough experiences of changing positions mid-game.

“Now, seeker.”

“Yessir!”

The other’s chuckled and it broke the heavy tension. Even Feuilly cracked a smile. 

“Gavroche, this is your first game but if you continue playing like you did during training, I’m certain you’ll have no trouble. Remember, the rest of the team will play in unison and you’ll mainly be left to your own devices like the other seeker. I know she’s your sister but don’t let yourself be distracted. If she does something, you keep on. If something happens to one of us, you keep on. When we or the other team scores, you keep on. You see the snitch; you catch it, that’s your only responsibility.”

Gavroche nodded so fast he got a bit dizzy. With a few more encouraging words, Feuilly gestured them to take up their brooms and with that, it was time to leave.

The ranks of the stadium were filled with students and professors and everyone was cheering and waving little flags of green or red. Madam Ceracchi, the flying instructor, sported her striped referee costume, broom in one hand and a big whistle in the other. She gestured the two teams to step forward in a neat line and blew once into her whistle.

“On your brooms, everyone. On my signal the game starts, make it a good one, people. One – two – three –”

Two sharp notes sounded, loud enough to be heard across the whole field and the stands. Gavroche’s heart nearly burst out of his chest as he pushed off the ground with both legs. But as soon as he left the ground a few paces below him, his mind began to clear and he felt lighter than he had in days. Beneath him and level with the crowds, the players began their wrangling for the quaffle, closely followed by the far-away voice of a girl commenting on the course of play. But Gavroche knew what he had to do, Feuilly’s little speech still bouncing around his head word for word.  Keep on going, catch the snitch, never mind the rest. 

Cheers filled the cold air, with lower howls and moans mixed in between, but Gavroche didn’t dare look down. He had focused on his sister who seemed to have the same strategy planned as him. They circled each other for a while, their measured distance narrowing. Gavroche stuck out his tongue at her and she rolled her eyes. There was no sign of the snitch yet.

An ugly cracking sound split the air and below them was a big commotion Gavroche couldn’t help but notice, with the audience roaring and the players shouting at each other. The whistle was sound once, signaling a time-out and he promptly left his gliding position above to join his team. Halfway down, Courfeyrac came up to meet him, looking grim and pale.

“What happened, Courf? A foul or something?” he shouted before reaching the older boy.

Courfeyrac just shook his head and gestured for him to get closer. “It’s not looking good, kid. Feuilly’s been hit, big time. Split helmet and everything.”

Gavroche’s stomach began to churn and all of a sudden he felt way too high up. Courfeyrac gripped his shoulder. “It’s not over though. Marius is the weakest chaser so he’ll try being keeper but we’re already behind. Not gonna lie, you’re kind of our only real chance to win – or at least not to lose with too much of a point difference.”

The younger boy gathered himself and nodded bleakly. “I’ll do my best, you can count on me,” he then paused before asking, “Cap’s gonna be ok though, isn’t he?”

Courfeyrac gave him a tight-lipped smile. “Sure, kid, more a bad fall than anything. It’s not his first time being injured either, and if he’s anything, it’s hard headed. He’ll be up and bossing us around in no time, you’ll see.”

Gavroche nodded the moment the signal for time-out ended. Courfeyrac gave him a last thumbs up and vanished among the green and red shapes.

Now having his mind set even more in one and  only  one direction, he soon lost time and space scouring the pitch for some sign of the snitch. He kept out of the way of the active game as well as he could, not keeping track of who was in possession of the quaffle and only distantly registering when someone scoured. Though his stomach clenched every time the cheering came from the left side of the stadium where the Slytherins were seated, which was more often than not.

It seemed half a century that he glided over the field, turning abruptly every time the sun reflected something shiny. But then he saw it. Like a little golden dot fluttering around aimlessly right below the Ravenclaw stand, the snitch seemed frozen in time for only the blink of an eye then disappeared from sight again. He made his way over immediately, only narrowly escaping a bludger coming his way and causing one of the Slytherin chasers to drop the quaffle mid-throw.

There, right where the snitch had been only seconds ago, he nearly collided with Éponine, who must have spotted it as soon as he had. They both took a few moments to regain their balance, then Éponine dove down and Gavroche, certain his sister had seen the snitch, raced after her. The ranks had become eerily quiet; the crowd seemed to hold its breath when Éponine tugged sharply on her broom stick, making her broom fly upward at a break-neck speed. Gavroche had not called her bluff and took a few seconds longer to follow suit.

That was when he saw it again, just a twinkle at the corner of his eye. Gavroche was off, on the hunt and overjoyed. Double-bluffing, his sister had lost precious time, even though she was racing behind him, nearly having closed the distance between them, he still was ahead. He was speeding towards the ranks, remotely aware that if he didn’t swerve in time he would fly into it head first, but he only had eyes for one thing.

He could nearly feel the thrum of delicate wings against his fingers and getting ever closer he suddenly lunged forward, closed his hand and nearly toppled over the handle.

Silence. A few seconds he fought with his spinning broom, nearly rolling off the side but suddenly seized control over the broom again and lifted the snitch high up in his left hand.

Then cheering broke loose, weirdly from more than one side, Gavroche noted through a haze of adrenaline. The other players rushed towards him and in a swirl of red, gold and slightly battered twigs they got to the ground.

But they were 10 points short.

Gavroche noticed the scoreboard as soon as his feet hit the ground and he groaned. Bahorel picked him up immediately thinking he had injured himself but Gavroche just shook his head and pointed to the board.

Bahorel set him on his feet again and patted his back so hard the first-year almost failed to keep his balance. “Yeah and good thing you caught it now and not later when it would have become embarrassing!”

He as well as the other players did not seem to take it as hard either. Courfeyrac gave him a big grin and lifted him up on his shoulders. “You did good, munchkin! We would have lost with an even higher difference if you hadn’t caught the damn thing.”

Bahorel nodded and pinched him in the cheek. “And you did beat your sister, mind you. What a lad!”

That was that and only a few sniffles later, he was carried under applause from some of the Gryffindors who had come down to celebrate their team anyway – snitch in hand – back to the locker rooms. He was carried still on the way to the infirmary where the Gryffindor team had a hard time explaining to Sister Perpétue that, yes, they could be quiet and not disturb the patient.

“At least M. Prouvaire is here already to keep you lot in check,” she murmured before disappearing to get ‘at least three buckets of bruise removal paste’.

Pleasant and unpleasant surprises.

Standing on the old stone steps looking over the school grounds, Javert had to admit that his terrible life could indeed be much worse after all. The sheer endless rain had ceased in the evening, leaving the night air still heavy and humid but smelling fresh. The Great Hall had mirrored the night sky nicely during dinner, but outside the stars shone even brighter and the moon hung full in all her glory in the sky. There was an itch under his skin that seemed to swell each time he looked at it. But its light was too lovely not to look at.

Absent-mindedly he started rubbing at his forearm, one hand sliding underneath his sleeve, where a leather wand holster connected with the skin of his wrist, pinching it lightly. Even though he hadn’t been working on the force for several months now, putting on the holster in the morning was a habit that had begun two decades ago and was certainly too practical to divest of now. Only, owing either to tightening it too much this morning or his overall restlessness, he was growing more uncomfortable and kept scratching at it.

“Mosquito bite?”

Javert nearly jumped out of his skin. His body reacted even before his brain could, and he drew his wand, pointing it at the person now standing beside him. A mere second later, embarrassment washed over him like a tidal wave and he hastily retreated and cursed himself. He didn’t know how he could have missed the man coming up towards him; usually he made as much noise as a bear. He silently blamed it on the past tough week and naturally, the waxing moon.

Of course it was Jean Valjean, who else would it have been. After all, they had arranged to meet today to continue the inspection of the last part of the castle, the secret tunnels. They had already covered some of the passages inside the castle, although not even the headmaster himself could say for sure how many there were. While the halls were ancient, quite literally set in stone, Hogwarts was, like a magical being itself, ever changing. 

“Easy,” Valjean smiled and raised his hand to pat Javert’s upper arm reassuringly. “I should have known better than to sneak up on an auror, my apologies.”

Despite himself he was less annoyed and more flustered at the manner in which Valjean was gentling him like he was one of his beastly wards. But then again, Javert smiled wryly, it was more fitting than the other knew, he supposed.

“No, I was hasty,” he looked towards the sky and away from Valjean. “And distracted, sorry. Normally I hear you coming.”

“That’s true,” said Valjean while looking at him, then following his gaze upwards. “It’s a rather lovely view tonight, easy to get side-tracked.”

Javert hummed affirmatively and, sighing, turned around to go down the steps away from the castle towards the Eastern grounds. Valjean followed him, holding up his lamp, that emanated a warm yellow light.

“Long day?”

He hummed again. “More like a long week. Glad it’s over.”

“You don’t know how much I agree,” Valjean laughed quietly, running a hand through his white hair.

Javert turned to face him, still walking ahead, a small smile grazing his thin lips. “I actually have an idea. You caused quite the commotion yesterday − or rather, you solved quite the commotion.”

Even in the low light he could see Valjean’s ears go slightly red. “How do you know about that?”

“I heard it being talked about all day. And I saw it from my window.”

“You did?”

“Me and about all of the students in the castle with east-facing windows and then some. A single gamekeeper capturing a horde of loose hippogriffs causes quite a ruckus.”

His tone was teasing, not one Valjean had heard from him yet. The older man looked away, embarrassed. “There were only three loose, hardly a horde.”

Javert’s voice returned to his usual straightforwardness. “Quite impressive anyhow. I told Mme. Toussaint that introducing a dozen hippogriffs to third-years was optimistic at best,” he said, leaving ‘at worst’ unstated, but his look spoke volumes. “At least none of the students got in the way. You said your daughter was in Care for Magical Creatures.”

“She’s fine, everything was alright after all,” Valjean smiled at him, then he laughed. “So that’s what you’re so happy about. You get to say ‘I told you so’ to Mme. Toussaint.”

Javert didn’t deign this with an answer but also didn’t deny it. Instead he seemed to study Valjean intently from the side, when the latter turned away, and asked. “So, is it a magical ability?”

Valjean pondered for a few seconds. “I guess so? Magical creatures have always liked me and trusted me well enough. All animals do, if I really think about it.”

“Not that.”

Valjean was confused and said as much. Javert huffed impatiently and looked him straight in the eye. “Valjean, I’m not wondering why animals like you. That much is obvious. I was – curious, I suppose. How can you go up against three hippogriffs? You look strong but not that strong, and you’re not allowed to wield a wand yet, I know that.”

The older man looked embarrassed again, shuffling his feet. “Wandless magic, I reckon? I’m not sure. I don’t remember not being able to do things like that,” he paused. “Is that a problem?”

Javert snorted. “Certainly not in the legal sense. And even if it was –”

He broke off abruptly, his attention apparently caught by a noise in front of them. It grew louder the closer they got, like a thousand-tailed beast flicking them back and forth. Both Javert and Jean Valjean came to a halt. They knew that it was only a beast in the loosest sense of the word. 

The giant willow tree stood around the corner, a few yards away from the outer wall of the castle. The trunk was creaking, turning slowly to and fro in the rhythm the swaying branches dictated. There was movement in the smallest twig even though the evening breeze was strong enough to  merely stir the rustling leaves that lay on the ground. But it wasn’t the tree itself that had grabbed Javert’s attention. He approached, carefully avoiding the branches that grew more mobile the closer he got.

“Does it also look to you that there’s been a fight here?”

Valjean came to stand beside him looking at the uneven ground before them. “I wouldn’t necessarily say a fight, but the Whomping Willow definitely attacked something here.”

“Can’t have been that long ago either,” Javert pointed at the exposed earth where big chunks of grass were missing. “There are only barely new weeds growing on these parts. Is there a possibility that the tree attacked an animal?”

Valjean shook his head. “I would say it’s very unlikely at best. The indents are too big, which would mean that the one being attacked had to be unrelenting in their attempt to approach the tree. The strength of its attack only increases with time regardless of the size of the one invading its space.”

“And an animal, even a bigger one, would have run away,” concluded Javert. “What if it was injured and couldn’t get away?”

“I’d have found it the next morning at the latest. That’s also why I don’t think it would be an animal, they know better and keep their distance. It was probably a bet between students, that still happens sometimes.”

Javert nodded, a pejorative undertone was in his voice when he said, “Well, that is certainly not unlikely. It doesn’t surprise me that teenagers  don’t  know better than animals. But we’ll see for ourselves soon enough.” 

He drew his wand, levitating a small branch off of the ground, moving it ever closer to the base of the trunk. When it connected to the rough bark, the Whomping Willow was instantaneously changed, the darting branches freezing in midair.

Javert beckoned Valjean to follow him and they advanced towards the tree, mindfully stepping around some of the greater indents in the grass. The tree stood on a part of the lawn that was slightly raised. From their former position they hadn’t been able to spot the gap that was now revealed between the roots. 

“Be careful not to slip, the hollow below is probably as muddy as the ground outside,” and without another word Javert disappeared feet first in the opening as if the ground had swallowed him. Valjean peered curiously after him and, hearing a distinct thud some feet below him, followed suit a few moments later.

The inside of the Whomping Willow was damp and smelled richly of fresh earth. Javert took a moment to look around in the dark, spotting the tunnel leading away from Hogwarts at a glance. Reminding himself that he had company, he drew his wand once more and an instant later warm light illuminated the roughly carved walls. Valjean came to a halt behind him and took a moment to steady himself. He looked around. By now he knew exactly what Javert was looking for: footprints, fibers, residual magic and everything else that was out of place.

“I fear I won’t be of great help down here,” he said, voice low. “I’ve never used this passage in my life. I don’t even know where it leads.”

“Hogsmeade,” Javert said promptly. “Do you know the shack at the edge of town? It leads right there,” he started carefully walking around, then stopped before the narrow passage to squat down. “Look at this. Footprints."

His smile promised terrible things for the person who left them there. Valjean came to stand beside him. “Are they fresh?”

But the younger man only shook his head. “They are dry and a bit smudged around the edges, but clear enough to indicate that they were the last person here. Let’s see.”

With a flick of his wand he cleaned his own robes and shoes, hesitated for a moment, then did the same for Valjean who smiled at him gratefully. Brusquely he turned to the prints again. In comparison to his own feet, the prints were a bit smaller but they matched Valjean’s boots in size if not in width. The track was not as conclusive. The footprints went first into the tunnel, but then turned around after a few dozen yards before returning to the hollow right below the Whomping Willow again, overlapping at times. Then they got swallowed by the muddy ground, only to reappear right below the opening a few times in different positions.

“Should we be following the tunnel?” Valjean asked after a while of watching Javert quietly moving from one part of the hollow to another. 

“No. The person, most likely a man or one of the older students judging by the size of the footprints, came from Hogsmeade, not here. It might be more conclusive to take the same route.”

Javert got up from where he was kneeling, struggling to keep his balance and Valjean grabbed his arm, keeping him from stumbling. He noticed that the younger man looked more exhausted than he usually did. Even though they mostly met up in the evenings after their respective work days were already over, Javert never failed to look sharp − hair neat, clothes tidy, standing bolt upright. That he even let him steady him now worried Valjean.

“Not tonight, Javert. Tomorrow.”

Javert nodded without looking at him directly and retrieved his hand that had reflexively landed on Valjean’s arm. He sighed; after hours and hours of patrolling and inspecting they had finally found something substantial that wasn’t just students sneaking around after curfew or committing minor offenses. But he knew Valjean was right. There was a good possibility that in his state he would overlook important details.

“Tomorrow.”

After removing their own muddy traces, they made their way back towards the castle. Javert felt the wet seep into his boots and made a mental note to waterproof them as soon as he got back to his rooms. There was not much today that was left on his agenda, his schedule kept free for tonight and the following morning and Merlin knew he would need his rest. Jean Valjean walked next to him, prattling on about the plans he made for Cosette and her friend this weekend, pausing from time to time to allow for short comments he expected Javert to make. He obliged, inserting a remark here and there, sharing his own intentions for this weekend only sparingly. He almost felt guilty that he wasn’t being entirely truthful, even if he was at worst lying by omission. Not for the first time he had the strange urge to just tell Valjean everything. At times there was an almost uncanny priest-like quality to him; something that invited confession.

Standing in front of the greenhouses, they said their goodbyes.

“I don’t suppose you would like to come for tea tonight?” Valjean asked with a twinkle in his eye. It had become a ritual of sorts, him being asked for tea and declining brusquely, only to be asked again the next time. Javert knew that it was an old habit of his and that at least a handful of the other professors accepted this invitation quite regularly.

“You should ask Mabeuf, he’s still up,” answered Javert, hearing him tinkering around the greenhouse nearest to them. The old Herbology professor was often still at Valjean’s hut when they set out on their rounds on the school grounds. “Two insomniacs drinking tea together.”

“We already did that yesterday,” Valjean smiled, his hair glowing in the light of his lamp.

Javert looked away and swallowed. “Ask me next time, Valjean.”

He didn’t wait for the other man to respond, just turned around and made his way past the greenhouses. The moon stood high above the castle amidst a blanket of clouds. The pull, the itch grew stronger and Javert’s gaze followed absentmindedly the dim light. A thud, then the door to the greenhouse swung open and there it was.

That smell.

“Oh, Professor Javert, I didn’t expect you to be here so late in the evening,” Professor Mabeuf said cheerfully.

Javert took a step back.

Professor Mabeuf came closer. As always he was carrying an armful of unidentifiable freshly-cut greenery, only this time Javert knew, no, smelled exactly what it was and his stomach churned. He clasped a hand over his mouth and nose but his head was swimming already, eyes blinded by the moonlight, thoughts slowing, teeth growing sharp and long in his mouth.

But he was still in control.

With one low guttural growl he turned away from the old professor clutching at his herbs, away from the castle and the countless humans that are the last living things he wanted to be near right now. He didn’t notice when he started running but noticed dimly how his strides became longer, his body faster. He felt the familiar wave of euphoria that comes with the initial heightening of  everything, his senses running wild while sharpening to a degree that makes thinking painful and instinct and feeling take over.

A tiny dot of light, like a door opening in the dark or a lamp being lit was the last thing Javert saw before vanishing among shrubs and fern, into the Forbidden Forest.

After a few minutes of near blind and disoriented running he came to a halt. Darkness enveloped him, soothing both his senses as well as his burning skin. The earthy smell of the forest slowly replaced the horrid smell of the herb but his blood ran hot and beat through his body like an unstoppable force, driving him slower than before but ever closer to the brink of turning.

Only a little push would be necessary, one small step more.

The moon crept out behind a cloud, the step taken. Javert gasps. The itch was turning to scratching, scratching to bursting along and inside of his backbones. Breaking forth, bones cracking and rearranging, the wolf climbed up his spine, mounting his shoulders and seizing him whole.

There was no change, no transformation, not really – rather becoming. Wolf becomes man becomes wolf, over and over in a circle of feeling and exchanging.

His fur ruffled in the breeze, he felt every hair. It had been too long that he had allowed himself to be like this and strangely he feels more in control now than he did rolled up in his chambers, drifting in and out of sleep while moon, wind and forest called his name from outside.

The wolf stretched his legs and neck, head held high towards the moon, he bared his teeth and a howl pierced the nocturnal world. There was scattering near his left and he heard hearts pumping as clearly as if it were his own blood rushing in his ears. There were sounds everywhere, scurrying, shuffling, scratching; smells all around him, sickly sweet rot, animal sharpness, dewy and crisp leaves and grass and the moonlight bathed the forest in glistening color in a bright ‘too much, too much but not enough’.

And again, the pull caught at his insides and tugged. And he ran.

 

It was Saturday once more, which meant that the students were able to go to Hogsmeade again. Compared to that first weekend the buzz had subsided a bit and Enjolras, Combeferre and Courfeyrac, being sixth-years and knowing the village inside out, usually would have stayed in the castle. But today they were on a mission, call it curiosity, call it mistrust: they wanted to find out what Montparnasse was doing in the Shrieking Shack. 

Their plan of was simple enough. Once they arrived at Hogsmeade village, they kept a close eye on him. Montparnasse was again wearing what for him were uncommonly common clothes: a plain black cloak and a hat that hid his hair and shielded his eyes. This time it was obvious that he didn’t have a rendezvous with anybody, because he headed straight towards the shack. 

The three friends followed him closely. Montparnasse didn’t seem to notice. It was good weather today, the ground was dry and the streets of the village were even more crowded than last time. If they hadn’t known where Montparnasse was off to, they would have most likely lost him in the throng of students bustling about. Only when they got past the main roads of the village, the groups of students were dispersing. On the one hand that made it easier for them to follow their target, but on the other hand it meant they had to be more cautious not to get noticed by him. 

“Let’s follow him inside this time,” whispered Courfeyrac determined. Combeferre nodded in agreement and took a small glass bottle from his pocket.

“Good thing I brought the invisibility potion,” he said. “It’s the second version. I made some changes after Bossuet told me that it didn’t last long enough when he went to the library that night. It was a close call. Remember, he was almost caught by a professor. Now it lasts at least twenty minutes.”

“But this is only one vial,” Enjolras pointed out. “Who’s going in after him?”

“Well,” said Courfeyrac. “As much as I would love myself some adventure, I think you’re the best choice, Enjolras. You’re the best in like,  everything. Especially defense. Though we don’t know exactly what Montparnasse is doing in there, I doubt it’s anything friendly.”

They had reached the outskirts of the village, standing exactly on the spot where they saw Montparnasse going into the Shrieking Shack last time. There wasn’t much time left until Montparnasse would reach his destination and leave their field of view.

“Alright then,” Enjolras reached out his hand to Combeferre, who put the vial into his outstretched palm. Enjolras opened it and downed the liquid in one gulp. It only took seconds until he was fully invisible.

“Wow, it works really well,” said Courfeyrac. “Go on, we’ll stand on guard. Just in case.”

“I’ll be right back,” said Enjolras’ disembodied voice and the other two boys only felt a light breeze as their friend passed them by to catch up with Montparnasse.

 

Enjolras was surprised to find that Montparnasse was still standing in front of the shack when he managed to catch up with him. He was in the process of opening the door with a series of spells Enjolras didn’t think were warranted for a merely abandoned house, a few of which were almost definitely prohibited for a sixth-year to use. He silently remembered the last few incantations he heard and filed them away for later research.

He had never been in the Shrieking Shack before, but it looked just as one would imagine it – disordered, dusty and almost falling apart, if it hadn’t been for magic holding it together. There was no telling how long the house had been in disrepair. It must have been lived in at some point, there was old wallpaper peeling from the walls and darker spots on the floor indicating where furniture must have stood many, many years ago. But other than that, the house was vacant and a thick layer of dust was spread over the stained wood floors. The entrance hall where Enjolras was standing now was dim, almost no light shone through the boarded windows. He almost followed the impulse to investigate the lower floor when Montparnasse, cautious to an extent that slightly surprised Enjolras, finished reapplying the charms and moved through the hall like he had done so a hundred times before. The floorboards creaked under his steps, light though they were, leaving footprints in the dust.

Enjolras didn’t move; though he was invisible, there was still a chance that the other student would hear him if he were to take any steps improvidently. After brief contemplation he drew his wand, quickly cast a levitation spell on himself in order to see what was upstairs while Montparnasse was occupied on the first floor. He was thankful he had thought of the levitation spell when he saw how the staircase was crumbling and coated in an even thicker layer of dust. He floated over it and up to the second floor. Reaching the landing, he looked around and saw it was vacant aside from a three-legged chair and a table with a huge crack along the top. Several doors led to rooms, most of them even darker than the ones on the first floor. There was no sign that anyone had stepped into them for a long time, but he also didn’t know whether Montparnasse had put up any defense or alarm spells. He resisted running an intricate examination spell on the room, instead he tentatively reached out his magic to brush over the surface of things, just to make sure that there wasn’t anything vicious attached to them. There wasn’t. The hallway was as empty, silent and desolate as before. 

He was alerted when Montparnasse started quietly incanting. Ignorant of being watched, the other boy had left the entrance hall and walked into the adjacent room. Floating down following his voice, Enjolras could see that he had pointed his wand at an old wardrobe in the corner of the room. It was the only piece of furniture that seemed to be left on the first floor, a looming dark presence made from solid wood. In the quiet of the shack it made a painfully loud creaking sound, the wooden planks rearranged themselves, changed color and transformed into a tall black cabinet. Enjolras almost immediately recognized it to be a Vanishing Cabinet. Montparnasse had brought a few scrolls of parchment, now scattered around him, and began casting spells onto the cabinet. 

 It’s either broken, thought Enjolras,  or Montparnasse is trying to create a passageway himself.

The latter was highly unlikely – it was such advanced magic that Enjolras wasn’t sure whether even some of the professors would be able to perform it. On the other hand, even at a closer look he didn’t recognize any of the spell circles written on the parchment paper. He decided to observe Montparnasse further.

“Repario armarium,” said Montparnasse a few moments later, concluding the first spell circle. The variation of the mending charm made it clear – it had to be a broken cabinet that connected the Shrieking Shack to an unknown place. 

A Vanishing Cabinet near Hogwarts couldn’t mean anything good. 

Enjolras reflected on this. Maybe Montparnasse was just trying to sneak out of school on the weekends − a quite plausible reason, when he thought about it. With Montparnasse’s flamboyant lifestyle, it was only natural that he would feel trapped in the mundane daily routine at school and would want a change of scenery. But in Enjolras’ opinion, it would be a complete waste of potential if one only used the Vanishing Cabinet for weekend trips. Then there was the new DADA guest professor Javert, who had been an Auror before he took on the teaching post. Maybe there was more to the man’s sudden transfer – an undercover investigation, for instance, or he was here to protect the school from potential threats. That would be the case if Montparnasse was trying to smuggle someone into the school. But remembering Javert denying this sternly when some particularly daring students had asked him, he dismissed the idea. As far as Enjolras was able to tell, the professor was not one to lie, and knowing Montparnasse, he deemed this possibility rather low anyhow.

Besides, in that case it would be of limited use if the Vanishing Cabinet was located at Hogsmeade village. The school was secured by a variety of shielding charms and other arrangements, making it impossible for unwanted outsiders to get in, so even if one was to successfully transport someone here through the cabinet, there still was no way they could get into Hogwarts. Unless the Shrieking Shack was connected to the school grounds… Enjolras’ frown deepened. Earlier, after he came down from upstairs, he saw a small closed door behind the staircase. What if –

He quickly moved in that direction, but the tip of his shoe brushed the threshold, making a short scraping sound on the wood. 

He heard Montparnasse immediately stop dead in his tracks. Enjolras, who had barely turned the corner, stood stock-still and held his breath. He couldn’t see Montparnasse from here but heard fabric rustling. He promptly cast a silent shielding charm with a flick of his wand that hid his magic.

He still couldn’t see Montparnasse but heard him muttering a quick inspection spell. He then heard footsteps and a moment later Montparnasse appeared next to him, standing only a few inches away from where he was, looking up the stairs and around the hall. Since the spell had not revealed anything and he also saw nothing out of the ordinary, Montparnasse turned around and walked back towards the cabinet. Enjolras waited until Montparnasse was immersed in his work once again. He floated across the hall and put a silencing charm on the door he had noticed before, then opened it with a basic unlocking charm. 

The door swung open. There was a dark and seemingly endless tunnel behind it. For good measure, Enjolras sent out a more extensive examination spell this time to see how long the corridor was and whether it was hiding any magical traps. Much like the second floor, it turned out to lie completely dormant but was also just as endless as it seemed – it would estimately take him just as long to reach the end of this tunnel as it took to get back to Hogwarts. That was when Enjolras understood why Montparnasse had placed the Vanishing Cabinet in the Shrieking Shack.

From his breast pocket he took out his pocket watch and found that it was just a matter of a few minutes until the invisibility potion would wear off. He preventively cast a disillusionment charm on himself before making his way back to see what Montparnasse was doing, only to find him still busy in front of the cabinet. He seemed to be here for this purpose alone, thus Enjolras decided that for now there was nothing more he could find out and it was time for him to leave. Walking out from the front door would be impossible as he didn’t know the exact charms to open it and trying it would definitely draw Montparnasse’s attention. Hence Enjolras stepped into the tunnel and locked the small door behind him, only then he lit his wand and made his way out.

To his surprise, the wooden steps led down into a tunnel that seemed carved into the ground like the passage of a rabbit warren. For a seemingly endless time he just followed the tunnel until he reached a bigger hollow. There were footprints in and around the center, where the rain had wet the ground after seeping through an opening, which Enjolras noticed between thick roots that also covered the whole ceiling. It seemed to be the only way out of the hollow, so he clutched his wand and crawled his way up, using the roots for leverage. 

He was almost hit in the face as soon as he got out. He managed to duck out of the way and quickly enough retrieved further into the opening again. He certainly wasn’t prepared to find the Whomping Willow at the tunnel’s end. After taking a breath, he concentrated on the task before him. He knew that severing and stunning charms worked on the tree like they did on any other magical being. However, every branch was its own entity and despite him casting spell after spell, in the end mostly luck and reflexes helped him to avoid further damage. He finally managed to roll to his side and out of the reach of the tree.

Enjolras lay on his back, breathing heavily, though unharmed aside from a few minor scratches. After a while, he slowly sat up and looked around. Fortunately, nobody was there. He took out his pocket watch, tapped his wand on the number 1 on the dial and muttered a charm. The three clock hands started moving by themselves and sent out the agreed upon code. There was a variation of the Protean Charm cast on all of the Amis’ watches so that communication was easier. After the message was sent, the number 1 lit up three times, indicating that Combeferre got the message. Enjolras tucked away his watch, with a cleaning spell rid his clothes of the inevitable grass and mud stains and headed towards the castle while the Whomping Willow was still raging on behind him.

 

It didn't take very long for his friends to return from Hogsmeade. At this time of day it would be too noticeable were they to meet in the Great Hall. The Common Rooms were out of question as well, since they were all from different houses. Instead, Enjolras spent his time waiting in the library. He wanted to do more research on the Shrieking Shack, the Whomping Willow and the Vanishing Cabinet anyway. When he saw his friends entering, he swiftly stood up and gave them a signal to meet in the Room of Requirements.

There was no meeting planned for today hence the room was vacant. Their other club members were either at Hogsmeade or in their dormitories studying. Enjolras took a seat on his regular chair. Courfeyrac let himself drop onto a sofa and pulled Combeferre down to sit next to him. 

“You look like hell,” he informed their leader after seeing his messy blonde hair and the scratches on his face. “I hope that doesn’t mean Montparnasse, that tool, found you out.”

Enjolras shook his head briefly. “Unrelated and yet loosely connected incident.”

“What have you discovered?” Combeferre asked.

“He's repairing a Vanishing Cabinet. One half is standing on the first floor of the Shrieking Shack. Where the other one is located, I have no idea,” explained Enjolras concisely. “The shack is also connected to Hogwarts through a secret tunnel that leads to the Whomping Willow.”

“That explains the swallowed whole and coughed up look,” said Courfeyrac exaggeratedly. He leaned back and narrowed his eyes. “The more I hear about Montparnasse, the dodgier he sounds to me. Is he trying to sneak out of school?”

“Most likely,” said Enjolras. “But it's also possible that he plans to smuggle someone in.”

Courfeyrac hummed noncommittally.

“Well, he’s definitely up to no good. But let’s stay out of his way,” Combeferre said with a thoughtful frown. “Today’s action was indeed a bit impetuous. I think it would be wise not to alert him further. As long as his plans don’t interfere with ours, I think we should leave him to it.”

“You’re advocating to stand by and watch someone break house rules,” grinned Courfeyrac. “Cheeky.”

Combeferre rolled his eyes and pointedly did not remind the other that, in theory at least, they were all regularly breaking Hogwarts’ rules simply by meeting up.

“I agree,” nodded Enjolras who ignored their banter as usual. “I’m not sure if he noticed me earlier, but as far as I know, Montparnasse is very distrustful. If he really became suspicious today and traces it back to us, things might become onerous. So we must have a contingency plan.”

“Guys, calm down. Aren’t the odds in our favor?” Smiled Courfeyrac. “We know he’s doing illicit things at a place that basically screams ‘keep out’, and all he can possibly find out about  us  is that we have a secret society here. We could just say it’s a, I dunno, club for magical plants or something.” He pointed his wand at Jean Prouvaire’s flower pots in the corner of the room.

“Club for magical plants, seriously, Courf?” Combeferre raised an eyebrow at him.

“Hey, I highly doubt all of Jehan’s plants are legal to keep,” shrugged Courfeyrac. “That Dittany seems to flourish to a suspiciously high degree considering that Jehan basically snips off leaves at hourly intervals to dress Feuilly’s  wounds.  Poor guy doesn’t have the heart to tell him he’s fine already.”

“Oh, I think he knows that well enough,” Combeferre smirked seldomly but he did now.

“We certainly should still keep a subtle eye on Montparnasse,” concluded Enjolras, decisively changing the subject. “I’ll entrust this to you, Combeferre, since you’re both in Ravenclaw. If anything even slightly irregular occurs that could interfere with our plans, we shall report him.”

Moving white shapes were the first thing Javert saw when he awoke. There was light filtering through white curtains that, diffused by the fabric, fell softly on his face. For a split second the inconceivable notion crossed Javert’s mind that he had died and the promises of heaven from his childhood had been true. In the same instant a sharp pain in his lower back pulled him out entirely from his sleep, away from the dreamlike whiteness into reality. He groaned lightly. His body felt heavy and sore all over and his vision became fuzzy when he tried to roll onto his side to sit up.

A hand firmly pressed him back down.

“As glad as I am to see you among the living again, I need to highly discourage you from getting up already.”

“Valjean?”

“Yes, it’s me,” the other man’s voice was deep and tired but soft. “Good morning, Javert.”

“Where am I?” Asked Javert.

“You’re at my place. After what happened last night I didn’t want to risk moving you too much. I hope you don’t mind.”

Last night. Javert found himself groaning again, only this time not just from physical discomfort. He heard a shuffle close to him and the thought of Valjean hearing him and rushing to his side with no hesitation and concern made him feel ill. It was the last thing that he deserved. He ground his teeth together and sat up in bed despite Valjean’s protests, a hand pressed to his side.

“I’m fine, Valjean.”

He found himself swaying slightly but refused to lie back down. Looking around the room, he felt disoriented, but his vision had lost the fuzziness around its edges. The stony cottage looked like it usually did; only on the table near the bed a few jars and bandages were laid out. On a stool was a pile of fabrics. One closer look and Javert noticed those were his once impeccably cared for clothes that were now ripped. Looking down at himself, he noticed that he wore a long white shirt that felt light and woolen under his touch.

“Um, I lend you one of mine.”

Javert’s eyes snapped back to Valjean, who was sitting on a chair pulled close to the bed. The older man looked as tired as he sounded. It was the first time he had seen him this disheveled. His shirtsleeves seemed cut in a few places, his hair was merely pushed back out of his face instead of neatly combed and his yellow coat, looking more tattered than ever, was slung carelessly over the back of his chair.

Too late he realized that he had been addressed. There was an awkward silence in the room.

“Javert? Are you alright? What am I saying, of course you’re not, sorry.” Valjean added.

“Valjean. I really am fine.”

Valjean only raised his eyebrows, reached for one of the jars and put it in Javert’s lap.

“Like hell you are,” he said. “Pardon. I didn’t even get around to dressing your injuries yet, I didn't want to invade your space more than I already have, so…” He paused. “If anything you’re going to feel worse over the next hours. If you don’t properly take care of yourself that is. And I’m here to make sure of that.”

Javert wordlessly stared at his hands. Even if he had wanted to, he wasn’t sure that he could speak past the lump in his throat.

Valjean was still continuing. “Are you well enough to put the ointment on yourself? I really should’ve brought you to the Hospital Wing.”

“No,” Javert cleared his throat. “No, it's good here. I’m good.”

“Good.”

There was a strained silence in which Valjean looked at Javert, who pointedly would not meet his gaze. Instead he started carefully rolling up the sleeves of the nightshirt which had the desired effect of Valjean discreetly turning away to putter around his kitchen. A few minutes they worked in silence, only interrupted by an occasional clatter from the stove or a hiss from Javert touching a bruise too firmly. Then Valjean returned with two cups and worry still lining his face.

“Stop that,” Javert said, sounding indignant when he felt remorseful.

“What?”

“That face, Valjean. I’m not dying. Look, your salve is doing its job rather nicely.”

And so it was. The first bruises on his arm started to lighten already.

“If I had my wand then I’d be able to mend the cuts as well. And maybe my ribs. I feel like one or two might be broken. If I just knew –”

“Your wand’s right there,” Valjean pointed at Javert’s pile of clothes. “I found it among your other things.”

He got up, quickly sorted through the ripped clothing and pulled out Javert’s holster which, surprisingly, looked mostly intact with only its straps broken. He handed it to Javert. 

Wand in his hand, Javert immediately felt better, a warm glow flaring inside him.

“Reparo,” he murmured. The mending charm fitted the leather straps seamlessly together as if nothing had ever happened. Repeating the incantation again and again, Javert’s clothes followed suit. Each ripped piece reassembled with its other parts and folded themselves neatly together. Javert liked the look of that. At least this was something he could control. He sat up straight and began working on the scratches on his arms.

One after another, they disappeared. Only his ribs proved a bit more difficult. While Episkey worked just fine with smaller injuries they did not help much with the pain in his chest. His ribs indeed seemed to be broken instead of bruised.

“Brackium Emendo,” a crunching sound tore through the quiet room and Valjean winced. Javert felt for a moment like he was going to double over, but his spell had worked its magic. He sat up straighter, feeling the pain ebb away. He was still exhausted, like he was after every full moon, but at least this level of discomfort was familiar to him.

“Thank you,” he said, looking at Valjean from under his brows. “For my wand. And everything. I feel much better.”

Valjean smiled. “I’m glad.”

“Let me fix your shirt.”

The other man seemed taken aback.

“It’s just – it’s ripped along the sleeves. It will only take a second.”

Valjean nodded, presenting his arms. And as promised, a second later the fabric was looking crisp again, maybe even a bit better than it had the evening before.

“Much appreciated,” Valjean smiled into his cup and leaning back said, “You know, it’s always a marvel to watch you craft spells. But now drink your tea.”

Javert felt strangely warm even before he had taken a sip. He pushed the thought away and wondered how he happened to end up here. The last thing he remembered was running among the depths of the dark forest. He was just about to ask Valjean when the older man pushed his sleeves back and something icy flooded the pit of Javert‘s stomach. There were scratches and deep cuts running up his forearms. He only noticed now that Valjean’s hands, too, bore angry red marks, and he found himself dreading to know who had put them there.

Valjean followed his glance, shrugging it off awkwardly. “I haven’t gotten around to them yet. No worries though, they look much worse than they feel.”

“I – How – Let me –”

“I’m sorry if they frightened you,” Valjean was rolling his sleeves back down but yelped in surprise when Javert gripped his arm and pulled Valjean towards him.

“You really don’t have to,” started Valjean lamely but Javert interrupted him even before he could finish his sentence.

“Shut up. Let me do this,” he drew his wand again.

“Sorry.”

“Stop that,” Javert frowned. “You’ve got nerves, telling me to take care of myself and saying not a word about anything yourself.”

“Sorry, I –”

“Oh my God, I swear, if you don’t stop apologizing, I’m going to –”, he broke off, looked away and continued quietly. “I suppose if somebody really should apologize, it’s me.”

“Javert, no, that’s not it…”

“Oh, so you’re telling me that you – what? Fell down the steps to your hut?” Javert felt himself grow angry despite his exhaustion in the face of so much self-sacrifice. “Don’t think I’m stupid, Valjean. I know that you had to follow me into the forest and probably carry me back in order for me to wake up here.”

Valjean sat quietly and Javert took this as confirmation. “You shouldn’t have come looking for me at all. I can handle myself.”

Valjean made a non-committal sound.

“What? Maybe I wouldn’t have gotten out of the forest by night,  which is a good thing by the way , but I’d have gotten out by the end of the day at the latest.”

“And found yourself wandering a forest full of monsters for over a day as an exhausted human, and hurt?”

“A forest full of monsters. How very fitting,” Javert’s tone was snide and Valjean’s face darkened.

“Don’t try me, Javert. This is exactly why I  had  to track you!”

“You tracked me? Already during the night? Are you mad?”

“I certainly wasn’t gonna let you be out there alone!”

“You could've been killed!”

“You could have also been killed!”

They stared at each other, each man unrelenting.

“Let me rephrase it,” Javert pressed between teeth. “I could have killed you.”

Valjean was silent for one moment, then said quietly. “That wouldn't have been very likely.”

“Why not, Valjean?” Javert laughed, the sound cruel. “You think I wouldn't have hurt you? Just because I wouldn't do that as a human? In case you hadn't noticed, I'm not exactly human after I turn!”

“In your words: I can handle myself!”

“You don’t even have a wand!”

“But I’m still a wizard!”

“And I’m a werewolf, Valjean, a goddamn werewolf!” Before he knew it, Javert really was shouting.

There was red appearing high on Valjean’s cheeks and he looked more exasperated than ever. “Yes, Javert, I knew that!”

Javert felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just been pushed backwards.

“Yes, I knew you were a werewolf and yes, I saw you turn and yes, I followed you anyways because I couldn’t just leave you to fend for yourself in the morning!” Now Valjean was angry, too.

“I knew you were going to turn back once the sun went up. It’s not like the old wives’ tales about hiding a werewolf's clothing to trap them in their wolf form are real! Unlike you I know the forest extremely well and can actually take care of myself. And even when it went south and you spotted me right before sunrise, I still managed to break your ribs anyway. Is it that you want to hear? Will that make you feel better? That I’m strong enough to hurt you even when you’re a wolf? That I  did?”

Valjean had moved closer whilst talking, so there were only a few inches separating them. “That’s why while I may be scratched up a bit, I still should be the one to apologize. I miscalculated and put us both at risk. I seriously hurt you and I’m very sorry.”

“Well, I also hurt you and while you may have put us at risk, I  was  the risk. Merlin, I could have bitten you, you stupid man! I’m sorry too!”

Javert was breathing heavily and suddenly felt lightheaded, dropping down onto the bed again, his fall gracelessly stopped by Valjean’s hands gripping his shoulders tightly.

“Oh Merlin, Javert!” the older man knelt down beside him, his hands still anchored on Javert’s shoulders. “I’m so sorry.”

He suddenly felt a tremble start under his fingers and it took him a few moments to realize that Javert was laughing. Completely perplexed, he drew back and watched as the younger wizard laughed terribly.

“Merlin,” Javert said, wiping away tears from his eyes. “I’ve never had someone scream at me because they were sorry.”

Valjean gave a lopsided grin and exhaled long and sighing. “I had, actually. Cosette yelled at me for being stupid. Much quieter yelling though. I thought she wouldn’t want to be my daughter anymore after telling her about my – you know.”

Javert huffed. “I can picture that.”

“That was when she got her letter, about a year after I became her guardian. Her father.”

Javert hummed. He had taken up his wand again and this time Jean Valjean surrendered his arms without any resistance.

“You asked about her before,” said Valjean suddenly. “About Cosette, I mean. I knew her mother back when I was a mayor in Wales. Can you imagine that? Me?”

“Yes,” Javert said simply and the other man looked thoughtfully at him.

“I had a business and Cosette’s mother worked for me for a while. She reminded me so much of my sister,” Valjean trailed off. “When she died, I took Cosette in as my ward and adopted her later. I found out that she had magic quite soon, she could do wonderful little things. I had never intended to return to the Wizarding World at all, believe me. I’d been quite content with living as a muggle forever; my magic only ever seemed to get me into trouble anyway. But for Cosette –”

He stopped dead. “Merlin’s beard, Cosette! She mustn’t know. She can be such a quiet, timid child but when she’s worried, ah, well, I suppose we really are very alike.”

“I’m nearly done, Valjean, there’ll be no marks left. Except,” he mused. “those on your hideous coat.”

“That coat may have saved me from sharing your fate in the future.”

“What?”

“Protection charms,” explained Valjean, but the color had drained from Javert’s face once again.

“I bit you?”

“Calm down, my friend. I’m alright; I told you, I was protected. We’ve been over this, we’re fine. You’re fine.”

“I’m sorry,” he said again, but Valjean only patted his knee in response.

After a short silence Javert asked: “How did you know by the way? Did Professor Bienvenu tell you?”

“No, no. Your secrets are safe with him, I believe,” Valjean suddenly looked quite cheerful again. “Truth is, Javert, you aren’t exactly subtle.”

Javert flushed and Valjean continued: “Your senses are very keen, especially your sense of smell and your sight. You don’t even use a wand-lighting charm unless I ask you to. And your eyes are quite exceptional already by day, but even more so by night. They slightly reflect light in the dark. Didn’t you know?”

Javert shook his head. “None of my colleagues ever told me. But then again, they’re avoiding my gaze more often than not.”

“Nonsense. I’m sure they value your presence greatly. Despite any mishaps on your part.”

Javert opened his mouth to retaliate but decided against it. Finishing his tea, he felt almost good as new and he suspected Valjean of lacing the tea with Wiggenweld Potion. This would also explain the exceedingly green color. He stood up and stretched himself. He went to Valjean’s empty chair, took his yellow coat in hand and tapped it twice with his wand. Slightly less worn looking but still threadbare around the elbows and sleeve hems, he held it out to Valjean.

“Would you be up for a walk?”

“A walk?”

“To the Shrieking Shack.”

Valjean looked at him in disbelief but then he thought about it. “Tomorrow. And only if you agree to come to have some more tea with me after and if you promise to not do anything else today.”

“Well then...”

Javert stayed in Valjean’s hut until lunchtime and then headed back to his office in the castle to finish some paperwork. The next afternoon, he had knocked on Valjean’s door and they set out towards the Whomping Willow as they had on Friday. The grounds were dryer now and the second time everything was coming along faster. But any traces were even harder to see than before. They talked during their walk to the Shack, Javert sharing some anecdotes from working with the world’s biggest idiots, according to him, and Valjean telling stories from when he was living in the Muggle World.

Reaching the Shrieking Shack, the two men found themselves in the same dusty disarray Enjolras had seen when he had been observing Montparnasse before. Only the dust that coated everything was even thicker now. Not even the few moths which were hibernating in the old house had left any traces in the dense layer. Almost suspicious in its disuse the house lay apparently silent and barren.

In the rest of the Shack nothing else but old wood splintering and more perfectly even dust was found. And nothing else.

Except a very faint, very sweet perfumed scent that clung to one of the walls in the parlor on the first floor.

 

What Javert and Valjean didn’t know was, the day before, just after Javert had left the gamekeeper’s cabin and was out of sight, a small boy got up from a crouching position and disturbed the crows that were feasting on slugs in the garden. It was Gavroche. His messy, mousy brown hair turned slightly reddish when the sun shone through it and he held a letter clutched and slightly crumpled in his hand. His eyes were as big as saucers.

“And to think that I only wanted to ask if M. Blanc had seen Éponine…,” he whispered as if the smallest mention of the gamekeeper would make him magically appear right in front of him.

There was no telling how long Gavroche had crouched by the window, only that he had got there before the shouting started and by that time he was more than intrigued. He was invested. He absolutely  loved, more than almost anything else, to find out about things that didn’t concern him.

His eyes lit up with terrible glee. This made the whole trouble with the letter worth it. It was from his father, addressed to his sister but the owl plopped it down ungraciously on his plate and went on its merry way. No matter how hard he had tried, with magic, with force, even nice words, the stupid thing wouldn’t let itself be opened by him! So to find Éponine he went! And to think that he had given up on finding out anything new today! And now this! This was great, better than great even. This was a true, dark secret! The second he had found out about this school year!

And of course it concerned Javert. That was only logical, Gavroche reasoned, he was the most mysterious professor he had ever known – not that he knew many. This needed to be a priority now, not that he planned on giving up the business with Feuilly and his friends. But he knew that a new secret was always best investigated promptly and without hesitation!

Giddily making his way over to the school again, since Éponine was obviously not in the house, Gavroche downright flew the way back up to the school and the Great Hall where he hoped his sister was having her lunch. Should she have the stupid letter, he had something much better!

“Éponine, there you are! Finally found you! There’s a letter to you from father!” Gavroche shouted across the Great Hall the moment he entered it, waving the crumpled envelope in his hand. He sprinted towards his older sister, who was sitting at the Slytherin table and buried her face into her palm as soon as she caught sight of him.

“Keep your voice down, Gavroche,” hissed Éponine, rolled her eyes at her little brother blowing raspberries and snatched the envelope from his hand. “You’re really just embarrassing. Now go away, I’m busy.”

“You owe me one Sickle,” said Gavroche, palm still stretched out. “Also you’re not busy at all. I know that you’re just sitting here sulking, waiting for Cosette to save you from your loneliness.”

Éponine glared at him and stretched out her hand to pinch him hard in the cheek but Gavroche ducked away just in time and ran away cackling. After he had made his way out like a sparrow swiftly dodging the other students, she looked at the letter.

Éponine frowned. Her father never wrote. So this letter with its strange content really came out of the blue. She had to check the handwriting twice to make sure that it indeed was a letter from her father and not just a prank by Gavroche. Opening it, she was surprised to find not only a note, but another letter within. Éponine unfolded the note. It read:


 Give the letter to Montparnasse. 


Her frown deepened. This was even stranger. Éponine picked up the other letter and turned it around in her hands. Hesitating only for a second, she decided to take a look inside. But the moment she tried to open the envelope, a burning pain seared her fingertips and she dropped the letter.

A few words in her father‘s handwriting appeared on the envelope for a few seconds:  Don’t even try, brat. 

“Old bastard,” Éponine muttered as she stuffed the letter into her pocket. The note from her father went up in flames and left a little heap of ash on the table in front of her.

This whole thing seemed immensely fishy to Éponine. At least there was no doubt at all that it was indeed her father’s letter.

Montparnasse was the nephew of one of her father’s many insufferable friends. He was a few years her senior and much to her chagrin she’d known him since childhood. And even as a child Montparnasse was cunning, playing unscrupulous tricks, and she did her best to slip away when seeing him around.

And now she had to seek him out; she got goose bumps only thinking about it. She only hoped that his horrible friends weren’t with him. She had no problem at all believing the rumours that Montparnasse was not doing anything commendable in his free time either, especially now that there was a letter from her father addressed to him. It was certain that they were plotting something nasty and Éponine had no intention, no intention at all to be involved.

She couldn’t care less; she had not the slightest interest in whatever thing her father got himself into this time; she wanted no part in it. As long as she could remember, her father had been involved with shady men and their shady business who came sneaking in at shady times of night and sneaked out shadily again. She’d never known for sure what her dad did besides running the family inn at the end of Knockturn Alley, but the older she got the more certain she was that it was probably illegal. That’s also why she’d like to stay as uninvolved as possible, thank you very much.

She'd deliver this bloody letter and get it over with. And if Montparnasse really bothered her, she’d tell Cosette’s dad to box his ears. She snorted thinking about M. Valjean boxing anybody, but still – it was a nice thought.

After lunch, Éponine followed some Ravenclaw girls who went up to their Common Room in the Tower. They were a bit older than her and hearing who she wanted to see made them raise their eyebrows but they promised to send him out anyway. A few moments later, one of the girls came out and told her that Montparnasse was not in the Common Room. Now it was Éponine’s to raise her eyebrows. She had no choice but to ask the girl to tell Montparnasse to meet her on Sunday evening.

 

On Sunday afternoon, Feuilly delivered the good news that they’d finally managed to lift the complicated set of protection spells on the book they had “borrowed” from the library’s restricted area:  Hogwarts: The Real History. It had taken them long enough to do so. So long indeed that Combeferre had to transfigure another book to imitate their prized acquisition and sneak it back onto the shelf, that it may − with some luck − avoid raising Mlle. de Blemeur’s suspicion.

Enjolras promptly scheduled an emergency meeting. He reported what he had learnt about Montparnasse first, recounting his adventure briefly. But he had very much misjudged the great suspenseful success his briefing would have. In the end he had quite some difficulties shutting down his friend’s questioning for more details and their speculations about Montparnasse’s intentions. Enjolras reiterated what he had already discussed with Courfeyrac and Combeferre, to which the Amis readily agreed.

Then Feuilly took out the book from his bag and put it on the table. It was as thick as a brick and equally as heavy. On the cover was a drawing of the Hogwarts castle, quite similar to their actual textbooks, just looking slightly more battered and lightly singed at the corners. The author was a certain Germaine Pittard. None of the boys were familiar with that name. Feuilly explained that after further research he was able to find out that the book was printed in 1802, but information about the author was scarce at best. Germaine Pittard was more than likely a pseudonym. And given the amount of spells that were placed on this tome, it was clear that what was inside was intended to stay just as elusive as the author himself.

“That thing was a right menace,” smirked Bahorel. He’d helped Feuilly out a bit with the  disarming, as he called it. Really, it was a lot more like trying to blow out a candle that had been lit with an everlasting flame.

“They had to go to the restricted area again, just to look for counter-spells,” said Bossuet to the others. Being a fellow seventh-year, he had most of his classes with the two Gryffindors and knew whenever they had to rush to the library to “get necessary information”.

“Thrice,” added Bahorel, evidently very distressed at the thought of libraries in general.

“Your sacrifice is greatly appreciated, Bahorel,” Jean Prouvaire laughed and leaned forward curiously. “Have you opened it yet?”

“I opened it once to see if the counter-spells really had worked but wanted to wait to read anything. But anyways, we can finally take a look inside now.” Feuilly squared his shoulders and opened the book. On the first page it read:


 Worthy Reader, on the following pages I shalt shew thee the truth behinde the lies. Th’re art so many secrets still enshiel’d in the dark. Open thy pureblind eyes and returneth with me to the past. 


“What bloody language is this supposed to be?” Bahorel grumbled.

“The book’s a couple of hundred years old after all,” said Combeferre.

“May I?” asked Jehan, who was sitting next to Feuilly, perched on the edge of his seat and the older boy nodded. He turned the title page over, looking for an index and not finding one in the front, turned to the last page and was pleased to find it there. “They have really included everything! Castle… Castle grounds… Hidden Chambers… Opening… Founders… There! ‘The Houses’. Page 832.”

The book, enchanted as it was, turned to page 832 at the sound of his voice, almost as if it was eager for the reader to share its secrets.

All the Amis, now forming a small semicircle behind Feuilly and Jehan, skimmed through the text of that chapter.

“Look at this, guys,” said Courfeyrac. He pointed at one passage and read it out aloud. 


 Nev'r didst the four founders, especially Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff and Rowena Ravenclaw, envision a school with different houses.  ‘Twast not till the third headmistress, Heliotrope Wilkins, yond the houses wast establish’d, mainly due to the growing number of pupils.  The first-years wast randomly did divide into four groups.  Each group did share the same dormitory tower and the same timetable.  The houses wast nam'd after the four founders to honour their gentle deeds.


“So there was no Sorting Hat or anything?” Asked Joly. “These so-called houses were just normal classes.”

“Apparently not,” said Courfeyrac. 

“Here, look,” said Feuilly as he turned to another page.

Fytherley Undercliffe, headmaster of Hogwarts in the sixteenth century, did introduce the Cap in 1532.  ‘Twast disguis'd as part of the welcoming ceremony at the start of the year.  ‘Tis to beest hath believed yond he wast under the influence of Salazar Slytherin, who hath left the school after the other three founders cross’d his idea of only admitting pure-bloods.  The Cap − see chapter eighteen − is an implement madeth by Slytherin himself.  ‘Twast able to detect whe'r a student hath met his requirement, marking those who didst not.  The Basilisk in the Chamber of Secrets − see chapter eight − wast releas'd ev’ry year to murder those deem'd indign.  In the year 1560, only twenty first-years did survive until the end of the school year.  The official reason wherefore so many children died stated ‘twast a reocurring Dragonpox epidemic. Only a falsehood such as this couldst prevent the school from decommission.

“That’s some dark shit,” said Bahorel.

Prouvaire had turned pale. “There’s a  Basilisk  in the castle?”

The text continued:


 The charm of the other three founders dormant in the castle combated back.  Finally an arrangement wast madeth, Slytherin's power did contain and the cap hath kept in thrall.  Henceforth the Cap wast to divide the students into four houses, judging by the criteria each founder did value most.  Its name wast hath changed into the Sorting Hat.  The Chamber of Secrets wast f'r ev'r seal’d at last. 


Here ended the abstract of the chapter and Feuilly stood back. A hush had fallen over the room.

“Alright,” exhaled Courfeyrac finally, “when I read about this book in the margins of that other one, I didn’t think it was  this  intense.”

“But it definitely shows us − assuming this is the truth and not just Germaine Pittard’s fantasy – that Bagshot’s version is wrong in parts,” said Enjolras. “Which stands to reason. After all, she wrote her book only a few decades ago, so all she had for reference was probably suitably altered information.”

“Why would they want to keep it from us, though?” Bossuet wondered. “It’s not a pleasant story, that’s for sure. But everyone involved in this is long dead and gone. Why are they still so afraid that anybody’s gonna find out?”

“You remember what Pontmercy said when Courf brought him here in September?” Feuilly said grimly. “That you can always trust the people in your own House more? The Houses are the perfect cauldron for liaisons, be it personal or political. And let’s not forget the Sorting Hat’s affinity to sort according to genealogy, so that certain old families remain in charge of certain houses.”

Enjolras’ jaw twitched. This was more than true, he himself as well as Courfeyrac and Combeferre, also Prouvaire were living testament. “And those who control the houses control the school’s Board of Governors as well. It’s an endless cycle of favoritism and old power persevering.”

“People won’t question this system either, if they’re made to believe that the four founders created it,” continued Combeferre. “They’ll call it tradition and pass it down. Most people don’t really care about the tradition itself as much as about who put it in place and us honoring our predecessors.”

“Exactly,” nodded Enjolras. “Once the public finds out it was a fraud built on the deaths of countless people and not what the original founders intended, it can be challenged and done with. It doesn’t surprise me that the people at the Ministry, especially the Wizengamot, would want this to stay a secret. Somebody had to sign off on the Dragonpox epidemic and I imagine that that kind of shame runs deep, even if it isn’t one of your making.”

“There’d be a public outcry. They’d need to apologize. Maybe some people will call for the school to be closed retroactively,” mused Bossuet.

“It’s not like Hogwarts is the safest place for children and teens anyway,” said Joly. “You could get harmed by so many things! At least Sister Perpétue knows what she’s doing and can stitch us back together,”

“Dark curses, poisonous potions, flesh-eating plants, magical beasts, careless teachers, that horrible poltergeist,” Bossuet started counting off dangers around the school like they were Berti Bott’s flavors.

“Not to mention a Basilisk,” Jehan shuddered. “By Merlin, the text didn’t even mention whether that thing was still alive or not. Just that the chamber of Salazar Slytherin was closed down. Which apparently is real, by the way!”

Feuilly touched his shoulder consolingly and turned to Enjolras. “I mean there’s a possibility that we can’t trust everything this book says, right?”

Enjolras hummed. “We have to consider the precaution with which the book was hidden and protected. As well as the fact that many people, probably including most of our teachers and maybe even our headmaster don’t know of its existence.”

He turned towards the blackboard and raised his hand. A piece of chalk floated up in the air. “While we have to admit that this new information fits well with what we aspire turning this school into, it also makes this undertaking riskier. Wanting to rectify wrongs of the past and return to a more fluid house system which is backed by the school’s true history makes the board our direct opponent more so than before.”

Combeferre picked up on his thought process once again. “If the Sorting is invalid then the board which is based upon equal representation from each house is invalid. Especially if every year the houses were newly distributed! Imagine what a new board each year means!”

“I don’t think they’re gonna like that. Especially not your father, Enjolras,” said Courfeyrac.

“Doing what my father disapproves of is usually a good indicator for what is just.” Enjolras remarked drily, but his eyes shone with determination. “This changes a lot, my friends, our time is running short.”

 

It was the same gloomy Sunday evening when Éponine stood in front of the entrance of the Common Room. It was already getting dark outside and after a few minutes Montparnasse finally appeared. She bet he let her wait on purpose, that jerk.

He was alone, his wavy hair combed impeccable as always. He looked genuinely surprised to see her but grinned when she frowned at him. “Éponine, what are you doing here?”

“I’ve something for you from my father,” Éponine handed him the letter.

“Ah, thanks,” Montparnasse opened it right away and took a glance at it. Seconds later the letter went up in flames.

“My job’s done, then,” said Éponine, turning around to leave.

“No,” the older boy said languidly, pulling her back by her collar. “You’ll have to send your father my reply. I’ll give it to you tomorrow, after your Potions class.” 

“You know my  schedule?” Éponine broke away from his grip, considering to kick his shins and telling him to put his reply where the sun doesn’t shine. But she knew that it would bring her more trouble than satisfaction and was certain he knew that too.

He was still smiling insufferably. “I have a rather good memory. Anyways, I’ll see you in front of the classroom. Before you ask me why I don’t send it myself – my owl doesn’t know your address and I don’t want the poor thing to get lost.”

“Whatever, creep,” muttered Éponine and left without saying goodbye.

Montparnasse waited until her steps had faded before he put his hand on the bronze eagle-shaped knocker.

“I occur once in a minute, twice in a moment, but never in an hour,” asked the eagle. “What am−”

“The letter M,” said Montparnasse and vanished behind the door.

Chapter 8 - In which it is Christmas! The most wonderful time of the year (or so some people say). A minor reveal happens but mostly this chapter contains feel-good fluffy romance and some poetry. I think we all need it.

Sooo, it's been - checks calender - FIVE months???I'm so sorry, sadly I don't have a funny overdramatic AO3 writer's excuse, I'm just bad at time management and unlike Jehan I'm not kissed by the writing muse at all times of the day. Don't blame Dark_Eyed_Panda, she's a dear and on top of her game at all times, love you, bby!If anyone is still reading this, thank you so much, I'll be better, promise XD Feel free to yell at me in the comments, I'll 100% answer. Critique, insults, complaints, gushing and marriage proposals are all welcome at all times!-Häwelmann


.The Thénardier Children.


Christmas was just around the corner as were packed suitcases, pet cages and excited children – all of them things to easily trip over. Everyone was excited for the holidays, but in very different ways. The first group longed for the familial joy and celebration of the season, the second to spend a few days away from quills, parchment and chalk-dusted blackboards. Group three was only excited for the other excited people to be gone from the school’s premises as soon as possible.

Cosette – a group one participant if ever there was one – was looking forward to the short trip to the Alps that her papa had promised what felt like a lifetime ago. She was dying to go ever since she’d read ‘Wanderings of a Tree in the Alps’ – all five volumes, of course – and wondered if there was even the slightest chance that they could meet their sentient tree protagonist while they were there.

Éponine on the other hand was a fervent supporter of the second group. She hated the thought of going home and would have scrammed at the first chance she got, if not for the fact that it would mean leaving Azelma and Gavroche alone with her parents. And she couldn’t possibly do that, especially not Azelma. Her younger sister, the middle child of the Thénardiers, was a Squib and had never gotten her Hogwarts letter. If it was up to Éponine, she would’ve sent her to a muggle boarding school, but that was easier said than done. Azelma had no official documents, no muggle passport, so her being admitted into any school was a small probability. Not to mention that their father would never pay for the tuition fees. All Azelma could do was to stay at home and the least Éponine could do was to come back for the holidays. Also, there was a letter from the slimy git to deliver.

With a heavy heart she said her good-byes to Cosette who promised to write every day for the third time today – “or at the very least twice a week, pinky promise!” – and hugged her tightly. Éponine held on a little longer than usual, trying to bottle up the very essence of her and had half the mind to make Cosette swear an Unbreakable Vow so she would definitely return from the “loveliest, absolute doll little place right in the middle of the alps”. But right then the smaller girl pecked her cheek and Éponine let herself be gently pushed to the door of the waiting train, all her thoughts having seemingly scattered.

“What’s wrong with you today?” Gavroche said after she plopped down beside him and hadn’t reacted in the slightest to his usual jibing and jabbering. In response Éponine only sighed deeply and burrowed her nose deeper in her old coat, “Shove off.”

 

“Mum, we’re back!“ shouted Éponine as she dropped her trunks on the floor. Gavroche made his way inside, kicking off his shoes and making a beeline to the kitchen. Their mother was standing in front of the sink, elbow-deep in water, doing the dishes. Their father was nowhere to be seen.

Mme. Thénardier raised her head and caught Gavroche by the scruff of his neck with one dripping hand. “No hello, young man, but going straight to the pantry. I see how it is!”

She let go to give him a quick slap to the back of his head but he immediately ducked away, scampering from the kitchen and disappearing into the hallway and up the stairs.

“Little louse,” muttered their mother, drying her hands with her skirt. “Hello, Éponine.”

“Hi, Mum. Where's father?” Éponine asked, she wanted the letter gone as soon as possible. Mme. Thénardier’s expression darkened.

“Why would I know where that old bastard is,” she snapped and brusquely turned back to the sink. “But your sister is in your room drawing, being unhelpful as usual.”

“I better say hello,” said Éponine and made her way out before her mother decided that she would make a good replacement, her shrill voice following her all the same. Éponine was so used to this routine she didn't even need to listen to know her mother was complaining about her good-for-nothing children who would not even bend their little finger to help out around this godforsaken inn.

Godforsaken indeed; Éponine could hear the voices from the bar through the walls but quickly followed Gavroche’s example going the other way that led her up the stairs and went straight to their room. Gavroche had already sat down beside Azelma, pencil in hand and was adding to her drawing, the tip of his tongue comically caught between his teeth.

“Hi, ‘Zelma,” Éponine said as she shrugged off her robe and threw it onto her bed. Azelma looked up and smiled at her but obviously deemed her drawing more important at the minute and went back to it. Éponine dropped down next to her siblings and ruffled her sister’s hair who giggled and pushed her hand away. For the first time since leaving Hogwarts this morning she was glad to have come back. When she was at school she didn’t allow herself to think about Azelma much, except when answering her letters, and she didn’t like talking about her to other people lest they not understand or make fun of her. Even Cosette had only found out about Azelma in their second year and learnt not to pry too much, even though she expressed great interest in learning more about all things Éponine, a category Azelma belonged to.

And it was not like Éponine didn’t love her younger sister, no, she was happy to see her whenever she had the chance to. What she dreaded was the disappointment and silent accusation in Azelma’s eyes when she had to leave again. And now she was even taking Gavroche away with her too.

Her sister’s head knocked gently against her shoulder and round hazel eyes looked up at her. “What’s up, Éponine, you’re being weird.”

“She’s been like that aaalll day!” Gavroche said, jabbed the pencil too hard on the paper and promptly broke off the tip. “And she’s been sighing like, ahhhh~”

Azelma giggled again at Gavroche miming and then outright laughed when Éponine gripped his head with one hand, roughing up his already unruly hair. They tussled a bit more with Azelma egging them on and Éponine silently promised to stay at least a full week this time while she held her little brother in an unforgiving headlock.

Then she abruptly let him go and stood up. “Is father home?” she asked and regretted it immediately as Azelma’s smile fell at her mentioning him. “Mum wouldn’t say. I should tell him we’re back.”

“I doubt he cares,” Azelma crossed her arms. “Also, I think he went out yesterday, don’t know if he’s been back since. Maybe in his study?”

Éponine nodded and petted her head. “Thanks. I’ll go, have a look anyways.”

“He’s not home much these days, y’know.”

“Good news,” Gavroche snorted. “Come on, ‘Zelma, you promised to show me how to draw that pig.”

Éponine made her way to the other end of the corridor and knocked. The door swung open at her touch and even though she knew she really shouldn’t, she went to look inside.

“Dad?” she could see the room was empty but better to be safe than sorry. What she really didn’t need was her father thinking she was snooping around in his stuff. She went to his desk, considering leaving the crumpled letter from Montparnasse there without comment when a drawing caught her eye. It was pinned to a board above the desk and looked surprisingly like the map of Hogsmeade the teachers had handed out on Halloween before going into town.

It was a map of Hogsmeade. Pinned right next to it was a letter with the seal of the Ministry of Magic and despite herself Éponine started reading. The top was hidden under an old photograph hanging above it but the second line read: hereby directed to attend the annual parole hearing at the Office for Rehabilitation and Prevention of Recidivism on June 25th at 2:33 pm at the Azkaban Detention Facility Department in the Ministry of –

One floor below her the front door fell shut with a bang. Éponine was startled into movement in an instant, leaving the room as quietly as she could. The letter was still balled up in her right hand, and on her way back she took a sharp turn into the bathroom where she locked herself in. She met her own green eyes in the mirror over the sink and felt her stomach sink. That her father was a mean, dishonest and all around unpleasant man she had known for a long time, even him being a crook in dealing with his customers was not a secret. If anything she was surprised that their inn still had plenty of customers.

But an actual criminal? That had been a step above her imagination. But then again, her imagination always had been lacking. Was he planning something now? She wanted nothing to do with that. This was not her problem. She hadn’t done anything, except – the letters? Montparnasse’s letters? The plan of Hogsmeade and its surrounding area pushed insistently to the front of her brain. She quietly swore at her own pallid reflection.

In the kitchen her father was starting to shout and her mother responded in kind. In the taproom they started singing a corny Christmas song. Her skin started to itch and her fingers started tapping nervously against the pocket into which she had stuffed the letter.

This was going to be a terribly long week. She really hoped Cosette would write soon.

 


.The Triumvirate.


Meanwhile, less than one hundred miles away somewhere near Oxford, Enjolras and the Combeferre children were standing at the front door of the Combeferres. It was to be his third Christmas holiday at his best friend’s place in a row. Enjolras, who’d maintained a rather distant relationship to his own family, had more or less become the honorary child of the Combeferres throughout the years. And the best thing was, his own family had no reason to complain about a friendship they had orchestrated themselves. The Enjolras family was proud to record a rather amicable relationship with the Combeferres for the better part of two centuries, so it was no wonder that Combeferre and Enjolras had known each other since birth. The houses had their old traditions and pure blood in common. The boys had their disdain for the same in common.

When they arrived, they noticed that both parents were home already, which was a rarity. M. Combeferre was head of the Department of International Magical Cooperation at the Ministry of Magic and Mme. Combeferre worked as a healer at St. Mungo’s. With the parents busy at work and their two children at school, the Combeferre Mansion stood empty most of the year. Christmas was one of the rare and rather cherished occasions of family reunion. And even then they had seldom taken the days before Christmas off in the previous years. But this year was a little special, they supposed, because it was Joanne’s first holiday home after having been enrolled in Hogwarts. Combeferre’s little sister was a bubbly first year student, sorted into Ravenclaw just like the rest of the family had been.

Mme. Combeferre opened the door for them and scooped her daughter up in a hug. She was a strict-looking woman with neat brown hair and the few snowflakes that caught on her dress looked like little stars on a dark blue velvet sky. Quickly she set her down again and gestured to the boys to come inside.

“Oh, you children have brought the winter with you. Lucien, how good to see you again this year,” she answered Enjolras’ little bow with a warm smile before she turned towards her son. “Did you boys have a good trip?”

“It was quite alright, mama,” replied Combeferre as his mother levitated their luggage up the stairs. “Courfe− I mean, Louis sends his love; he might drop by for Christmas dinner if that’s alright. Is papa back already?”

“That’s fine with me, Joseph, as long as he promises not to smash another decanter with his ‘expressive gesturing’ this time” Mme. Combeferre said. “And your father’s in the parlor, we wanted to be there for Joanne’s first day back, you understand. But now, up with you two and rest a bit, I’ve had the house-elves prepare your room, Lucien. Feel free to tell them if you have any other wishes.”

Enjolras' lips tightened but he nodded, said, “Thank you, Madame, that’s very kind of you,” and headed upstairs with his friend. His usual room was the one down the hallway, next to Combeferre’s. It looked cozy as always, and his luggage was sitting neatly at the foot of the bed.

Since they weren’t allowed to perform any magic outside of school yet, Enjolras unpacked his luggage the old-school way. During that process, a house-elf knocked on the door and asked if he wanted anything to drink. Enjolras was just about to say no as Combeferre appeared with two cups of steaming black tea in his hands.

“We’ll be fine, but thank you very much, Bordeaux,” he said, bending slightly down towards the house-elf, who nodded and answered, “As you wish, Maître Joseph. Just ring when you need me.” He then bowed and disappeared with a little poof.

“Tea?” Combeferre lifted an eyebrow inquiringly as he entered Enjolras’ room and put the cups on the tea table.

“Thanks,” said Enjolras and took out the last piece of clothing. He hung it neatly on a hanger in the wardrobe before he joined Combeferre on the sofa.

“Can you believe that it still makes me uncomfortable to command the house-elves?” said Combeferre, then he smiled. “Don’t answer that, it was a rhetorical question. I know you can. It's their job. And it's not like we can just give them clothes. I’ve actually persuaded mama to give them the option. But they just won’t take them. Bordeaux said that it’s the best job he could ever imagine.”

“Have you tried to persuade your father?”

Combeferre smiled ruefully. “Merlin, no, I’m not that keen on fighting. I know, I know, you would rather fight about it with yours.”

“Well, I certainly did that before,” Enjolras took a sip of his tea. “I guess that’s why my parents are quite glad to not have me at their Christmas dinner parties anymore. They can’t have me ruining Lady Maxine’s crème brûlée over something silly like the modern enslaving of magical creatures. Again.”

“I can imagine that would bring the mood down,” Combeferre sniggered. “Oh wait, I don’t have to imagine, I was there.”

Enjolras smiled but then became thoughtful again. “At least you treat them fairly and your mother’s amendable. It’s a shame that house-elves shouldn't be restricted to manual labor. They possess powerful magic and there’s a lot more they could do. But right now our system just won’t allow it. So I reckon for the time being it’s better for them to stay in jobs with good working conditions. If I had the opportunity, I would’ve sent our house-elves to you − unfortunately they’re so brainwashed by my father that they’d never–”

At that moment the bell on the wall rang. Then it was Mme. Combeferre’s voice coming out of it, “It’s dinner time, boys! And Lucien, there’s a letter from your father.”

Enjolras’ frown only deepened when he heard that.

M. Combeferre was sitting at the end of the long dining table when they entered. He was a serious looking man with the same glasses and neatly combed brown hair his son had. He was talking to his wife about the upcoming state visit of the French Minister of Magic. Combeferre’s sister looked bored by her father’s on-going complaints about politics and was folding her napkin into lilies.

“How has school been so far, young gentlemen?” M. Combeferre turned away from his wife momentarily to the two boys, his gray eyes looking at them intently. “I imagine you’ve been doing well in your N.E.W.T.-level classes?”

“Yes, Monsieur. We have a new professor for Defence Against the Dark Arts,” Enjolras replied. “Professor Javert. He was an Auror before.”

“Javert, yes. Joseph wrote about that in his letters,” said M. Combeferre with a brief nod. “He was team leader in the Auror Office, no family of importance but he must have been capable at least. It’s a mystery why they sent him to teach at Hogwarts.”

Enjolras and Combeferre looked at each other.

“Could it be that there’s something going on at Hogwarts?” Combeferre asked tentatively.

“Well, I’d certainly hope that’s not the case. I remember asking Gisquet when I last dined with him, but he gave me no further information,” M. Combeferre answered with a thoughtful frown. “Although it is very unlikely, if you ask me, very unlikely.”

After dinner, the boys stayed for another cup of tea and then excused themselves to go upstairs again.

Enjolras sat down at the desk and opened his father’s letter. He would have preferred to set it on fire, but he knew from experience that unfortunately his father was wont to write letters on enchanted stationery that couldn’t be destroyed so easily.

“What does it say?” asked Combeferre.

“That he expects me to be home for the Christmas banquet and I ought to be ashamed of the company I keep at school,” shrugged Enjolras. “The usual things. I'll floo there for that one meal and come back as soon as possible.”

“I’m sorry,” Combeferre squeezed his arm sympathetically. “I could come with you?”

“No, no. You have Courf’ to keep in check. Imagine your poor mother alone with that menace.”

Combeferre smiled fondly. “Imagine my poor father alone with that menace.”

Enjolras laughed softly. “Oh Merlin, I’ll bet you five Galleons there will be throttling. No idea who’s throttling the other but throttling there will be.”

 

Contrary to all expectations, Christmas day at the Combeferre Mansion progressed peacefully without any throttling and only one broken but salvageable teacup. It would have been a lie to say that Courfeyrac had been the ideal partner for their son from the viewpoint of Combeferre’s parents, the first impression of him being closer to ‘he will do’ than ‘this is it’. But the fact that Courfeyrac’s family was both as old and noble as theirs, even if they were a family of known rogues, this specimen included, placated M. Combeferre’s nerves considerably. And Mme. Combeferre thought Louis was a wonderfully charming young man, rather lively but obviously enamored with her dear Joseph and easy on the eyes as well, with his boyish good looks and auburn hair. Even if he broke at least one piece of porcelain every time he set foot in their home.

“Merlin, I forgot they were so flimsy!” exclaimed Courfeyrac, said redheaded menace. He and Combeferre had excused themselves after lunch to minimize the time he would have to hear his boyfriend’s father loudly opining over a glass or two of cider.

“At least you only broke off the handle this time and not both the cup and the saucer at once. I call that an improvement,” Combeferre’s smile was soft but teasing. “Maybe next time you’ll only chip it slightly. Think about what my mother would say then.”

“Anything to keep on your mother’s good side, love,” lamented the other boy and threw himself next to Combeferre on the sofa, his head missing the edge by a hair.

“Careful. You don’t want to break your skull next, Courf’,” he took Courfeyrac’s head and pulled him on his lap, combing through his hair with long nimble fingers.

“You could stitch me back up, I’m sure. Consider it free practice for your healer career.”

“How very generous of you,” Combeferre bent down and kissed Courfeyrac who laughed delightedly and sat back up again, climbing fully on his lap, making them both nearly topple over the armrest.

“Did you just kiss my nose, ‘Ferre?” Courfeyrac giggled. “Merlin, you’re so sweet. But please kiss me for real. We’re not at the dinner table anymore and I don’t have to behave to appease your parents.”

“Who am I to make you behave,” Combeferre grinned and kissed his freckled cheek. “’S that real enough?”

He only got an eye roll and an annoyed, “No, not like that. Come on, kiss me, kiss me, I’ll die if you don’t.”

“Oh, well in that case,” now Combeferre was full on laughing. “I didn’t know lack of attention was terminal.”

“It is for me,” Courfeyrac said, looking absolutely serious. Or at least as serious as someone could look while they were sitting like an overgrown lap-dog on a striped sofa. “Come ‘ere, ‘Ferre, I’ll give you something to laugh about.”
He snaked his hands under his shirt trying to tickle the taller boy but Combeferre was faster, pulling Courfeyrac in by the nape of his neck instead and connecting their lips just right. Immediately the tickling fingers turned tender and started to wander, when –

“You won’t believe what that bastard did!”

The door had opened in one sweeping motion and in strode Enjolras with red cheeks, blonde hair curling in every direction. He stopped dead in his tracks and his face turned first white then red again as he beheld his two friends. Courfeyrac’s cheeks were equally flushed, even if for a different reason, his hair disheveled and hands hidden by Combeferres slightly unbuttoned shirt and sitting perched upon the latter whose eyes were comically wide behind his crooked glasses.

There were three endless seconds of silence then Courfeyrac burst out laughing.

“Oh my,” he managed to get out in between hiccups, “Enj’, you should see your face! Merlin, that’s too good!”

He climbed down from Combeferre’s lap and went over to embrace Enjolras, still laughing gleefully.

“I’m – sorry?” tried Enjolras who was obviously struggling.

“No worries,” Combeferre sat up, cleared his throat and re-buttoned his shirt with a surprising amount of decorum. “Maybe knock next time?”

“Maybe we should be smarter and lock the door next time. Lucky us that it was Enj’ and not your dad. I don’t want to give him a heart attack in at least the next five years.” Courfeyrac said while trying and failing to smooth down his hair. “Now, pray tell. What’s the matter? Who’s a bastard?”

Enjolras sat down beside his friends on the sofa, visibly more relaxed but his visage became grave.

“My father’s been elected chairman of the Board of Governors. He’s going to occupy the post when the old one retires. Sometime soon next year. We have to change our schedule,” Enjolras said. “I know just too well what kind of reforms he has in vision.”

“That’s the opposite of a Christmas miracle!” exclaimed Courfeyrac. “It’s a Christmas disaster!”

 


.Javert.


Of all the unlikely people it could happen to, it was Javert for whom a little Christmas miracle waited upon his return on Christmas Eve from an “absolutely obligatory invitation to tea and biscuits, my dear Javert” with M. Bienvenu in the Headmaster’s quarters.

He had just turned in and settled in the chair by the fireplace when a quiet knock came from the other side of the room. He sighed, stood up again and opened the door to find that somebody had left a small parcel in front of it with a little name tag with ‘To Javert’ written on it. Being as occupationally diseased as he was made him cast a quick Specialis Revelio before deciding that the innocent looking package really was innocent, at least in the ‘having been magically tampered with’ sense. Indeed, if he hadn’t known any better then he’d expected this to be an actual present – a parcel wrapped in paper and unambiguously labeled.

With his paper knife he slit open the sides and lifted the cover to reveal another wrapped item – turning out to be a nicely crafted wooden quill holder – a tin box and a card, also addressed to him.


Dear Javert, it read. Merry Christmas! I hope you’re enjoying your holiday so far. I know you expressed great but understated pleasure about the fact that it would be both the most quiet time in weeks but also the most peaceful Christmas since becoming an Auror. Because of this, my daughter and I saw it only fit for the occasion to prepare you a little present. The cookies were her idea, she wanted to say thank you for helping her with her transfiguration homework (she put the little porcelain acorn with her other keepsakes, so it’s safe to say she liked it). Mine is the other present I hope you find it useful.


See you again next week!

And below that in the same hand – Jean – and in smaller, more ornate writing – Cosette – was written right at the bottom.

Javert stared at the card for a moment. It was all true. He had told Valjean – Jean, his mind supplied pointlessly – about looking forward to the holidays, even telling him that he had worked on Christmas in the past because he did not care for the holiday much but his colleagues did. He remembered Valjean calling him a Grinch (whatever that was) and laughing as he always did when apparently Javert had said something funny or clever even though most of the time he could not fathom what that could have been. At first he thought Valjean had been laughing at him but soon he realized that through some strange twist of fate Valjean actually seemed to find him amusing. Cosette, too, once she overcame her shyness, turned out to be a bright girl who was very good at following detailed instructions, as Javert noted appreciatively. And he did help her with that assignment, so he supposed he could accept her gift.

He opened the box and took out a star shaped biscuit that had a distinct lemony smell. He held it in his hand for a moment and looking between star and parcel, he realized that – maybe for the first time in his life – he had a friend.

 


.Jehan and Feuilly.


“Mamaaa?” Jehan came storming down the stairs and burst into the kitchen. Mme. Prouvaire stood at the kitchen counter overseeing and conducting a dozen little piping bags that were artfully decorating a whole army of biscuits with floral and leafy patterns that fit not only because of their family business but their shared obsession with all things lush and green. There was flour on her left cheek and a few sprinkles stuck to her elbow. Hearing her youngest suddenly breaking into her calm Christmas domicile made the older witch nearly drop her wand into a bowl of custard.

“Jean!” she looked at him through her round glasses with mock severity. “Really!”

“Now, who’s causing such a ruckus this fine morning?!” Christine, his eldest sister, exclaimed good-naturedly. She had stuck her head in through the door from the parlor as soon as she heard Jehan. She was more than twice his age and doted on him terribly. “If it isn’t my little elf on the shelf, himself!”

She merrily laughed at her own joke. Close behind her stood Dominique, the Prouvaire’s second eldest, who smirked a bit at her brother looking flushed and rumpled first thing on Christmas morning. “One should think the excitement of the Yuletide would have tapered off a bit by now.”

“Oh hush, you two,” their mother had brought the biscuit situation back under her control and strode over to her son. “Jean, what was it that you wanted?”

“Have you seen the letter on my desk?”

“A letter?”

“Yes, addressed to Feuilly?”

His mother’s eyes lit up with recognition. “Oh yes, dear! That one for the nice Gryffindor boy you’ve been writing to all summer. Well, if I hadn’t seen it, he wouldn’t have gotten it in time for Christmas! Silly boy, if your head wasn’t screwed on, I say –“

“Mom!? You sent it?”

“Gave it to Myrtille first thing this morning. She’s become our fastest flyer, you know? I remember her being this big and – what’s wrong, dear?”

Jehan had become slightly hysterical while his mother had been talking and now seemed to slowly collapse in on himself.

“Oh, Jean, what’s wrong?” Christine went over to him and tried to pry his hands from his red face. There were tears in his eyes. “Come on, dove, talk to us.”

“It’s horrible! I’m so stupid! I should have burnt it immediately!”

“Jean, really,” his mother paused, looking concerned. “I’m sorry if I shouldn’t have sent it, I just thought –“

“It’s not your fault, mama,” he said between little sniffles. If he hadn’t been on the verge of a nervous breakdown he would have laughed at the image of the three grown women huddling around him like big gentle geese.

“I shouldn’t have left it on the desk. I’m such an idiot,” he repeated, his face the picture of misery.

“Well now,” Dominique started but felt there was little she could say so just continued stroking his hair.

“It’s just a letter, Jean, I doubt it is as bad as you make it out to be,” his mother said.

“You don’t understand! I wrote stuff in it!”

“There, there,” said a fourth voice. Elaine, the youngest of Jehan’s three older sisters when coming into the kitchen, thinking not much of it, found herself in front of a human pile and hadn’t hesitated a moment to pile herself right on top. “We all learnt to write, that’s nothing to be ashamed of, love. And if it is, blame mama.”

Jehan laughed a bit wetly.

“I’m sorry, bad joke. In my defense, I have no idea what this is about. If I did, I certainly could manage a better one.”

“Well, you see. Our boy here wrote a letter to Feuilly,” started Christine.

“Nice boy from Gryffindor, first name Albert, further information available on request, 'cause I've heard a lot about him,” interjected Dominique.

“And I found it on his desk, assumed it was a letter of Season’s Greetings and sent it, sorry again, darling,” his mother continued.

“And there’s stuff written in it,” concluded Jehan lamely, leaned back a bit and rubbed his face with his shirtsleeves.

“Love, you can’t just keep saying stuff like that,” Elaine wrinkled her nose. “You know I’m going to expect the worst if you say that. Don’t be a wuss, you’ll feel better once you tell us, I promise.”

Jehan mumbled something and his blush was now reaching up to his ears.

“What was that?”

“A confession,” he repeated meekly. “And a poem.”

“Ohh, ” they said in unison.

 

“There’s another letter for you,” Bahorel said and pointed at a small envelope with green lettering. He curiously peered at the back which had been left blank. “Who’s that from?”

He and Feuilly were sitting comfortably in their pajamas in the seventh-year Gryffindor boys’ dormitory. They had gotten up late and then took turns unwrapping their small pile of presents which mostly consisted of sweets and chocolates, not that they were complaining.

Feuilly took the letter from him and smiled seeing the handwriting. “It’s from Jehan!”

“That’s not fair!” complained Bahorel. “How come you get an extra special letter for Christmas from our lovely little Jean Prouvaire and I don’t?”

“Well, we started regularly writing last summer but I guess that if you were to write letters yourself you’d get at least a few back,” Feuilly grinned. “If only you could.”

“Hey, I can write just fine!” Bahorel gave him a rough shove but the other only laughed. “Marielle even said she could decipher my last note after only ten tries.”

“A dyslexic and an illiterate walk into a bar –”

Bahorel tackled him from the side. “How dare you be funny while insulting my relationship, you know exactly that I can’t resist our great muggle jokes. We can’t all be kissed by the muse like your sweet boy is. Now, read it, read it.”

Feuilly rolled his eyes, tore the letter open and unfolded the paper. He opened his mouth as if to read it aloud but promptly closed it again. A rosy hue began spreading on his cheeks. Bahorel eyed him with one raised eyebrow and the longer Feuilly read and the redder he got, the higher it rose.

“Well, dear Albert? What does he write?”

Feuilly’s head snapped up as if he had momentarily forgotten about Bahorel.

“Season’s Greetings,” he said.

“Bollocks. You know, you have the worst poker face I’ve ever seen. And that was a big, fat lie!”

“It’s true though!” protested Feuilly and tried to get up from the bed. Bahorel was faster and caught his arm, snatching the letter from his hand.

“Feuilly, come on! I just wanna know!”

“No way,” Feuilly barely freed himself. “Give it back, you’ll crumple the letter! Don’t make me hex you!”

Bahorel mock gasped. “You wouldn’t!”

“Try me.”

“Okay, sheesh, keep your little love letter to yourself, you prude,” Bahorel saw Feuilly’s ears turn red. “Oh my God, it totally is! Feuilly!!”

“Shut up, you idiot,” hissed Feuilly and lunged for Bahorel who screeched and ducked and he would have gotten him if a knock on the door hadn’t stopped him in his tracks. Without waiting for a response the door was opened and in came a bleary-eyed Marius.

“Umm, hey guys?” He eyed them curiously. “Feuilly, Prouvaire’s here to see you.”

He gestured behind him and a timid looking Jehan came into view, his face pale framed by unusually messy brown hair. “The Fat Lady didn’t want to let him in at first, but – You alright, Feuilly? You look a bit red there.”

“Yeah, just warm,” said Feuilly and Bahorel cackled. While he pushed past him, he pressed the letter back into his hand but only got a grim look and a quiet. “This isn’t over.”

“I bloody hope not.” He cackled again. “See you on the pitch, lover boy! Come on, Pontmercy, you up for a game?”

He dragged the clueless boy away by his collar and slammed the door with a hearty “Merry Christmas!”

Jehan jumped.

“Merry Christmas, indeed,” said Feuilly and sighed deeply. “Sorry, excuse the mess, this morning was a bit much with all the –”

He cracked a shy smile and lamely waved his hand around the scattered torn wrapping paper and stray cushions that had landed on the floor during their tussle. “I had to chase Bahorel ‘cause he stole your letter, the git.”

“You’ve gotten the letter?” Jehan looked anxiously up at him and briefly met his eyes for the first time today and Feuilly noted that they were a bit red-rimmed. Otherwise they were their usual lovely amber color.

“Yes, I did,” Feuilly cleared his throat. “Sorry?”

“Did you read it already?” the smaller boy looked away, refusing to let their eyes meet again.

“Yes, I did. I’m sorry, Jehan.”

“No, no, don’t apologize.” Jehan had begun slowly pacing. “If anyone should, it should be me saying sorry. I’m just, I don’t know. I hoped I was early enough to tell you not to read it or take it back before you saw it or – I don’t know – anything that spared you the embarrassment of having to reject me.”

Feuilly paused. Then his brow furrowed. “But I’m not rejecting you.”

“It’s completely fine, I promise –” Jehan stopped his pacing and stared wide-eyed at him. “You’re not?!”

“No!”

“But you were apologizing and I thought – why did you apologize then?!”

Feuilly nervously rubbed at his neck, his short hair prickled underneath his fingers. “Well, you did not seem too happy about me getting and reading your letter and I thought that maybe you changed your mind or maybe it hadn’t actually been intended for me and got mixed up, so –”

“Oh no, no, no! It was for you! Of course it was! Who else?”

Feuilly’s smile grew so big his eyes crinkled at the corners. But Jehan didn’t see his obvious relief as he was too busy picking at his robe.

“It’s just that I didn’t want to send it in the first place, of course I’m glad now that you like it,” he hastened to add. “But my mother, you see, she just gave it to Myrtille to deliver it and then I had a minor breakdown in the kitchen but my sisters said the best thing would be to see you in person and talk it out. And of course they know about these things better than I do, I mean, at least they’re all married. And then I remembered that my grandfather had planned to call M. Mabeuf today anyway, there’re new hardy evergreens for the next lessons, and I begged him to let me floo here. M. Mabeuf, not my grandfather, of course, and - I’m not making any sense, am I? Merlin, I’m rambling, please stop me!”

Jehan sunk down on Feuilly’s bed burying his face in his hands. Feuilly chuckled and sat down beside him, their legs slightly touching. “Not much, no.”

“I’m doing this terribly, aren’t I?”

“I find myself quite charmed.”

Jehan lifted his head and stared at him like he had just said the most outrageous thing. “What?”

Feuilly smiled sheepishly. “Nothing. I just like you.”

Jehan still stared at him, then he flushed and Feuilly’s heart tightened. And because he could, he leaned forward and embraced the smaller boy. He had a huge embrace, warm and strong, and Jehan felt his body relax for the first time today since he had noticed the letter went missing. He felt Feuilly's chin resting on the top of his head, a very tender gesture contrasting his crushing hug. Jehan pressed his face into his chest and just like that he started to cry.

Alarmed Feuilly began to pull back but Jehan insistently shook his head, his fingers holding onto his shirt, still hiding his face in the fabric.

“I'm sorry it's just - 'm just so relieved, and I like you so much,” he managed to say. “I'm just – happy?”

“You're happy?” Feuilly smiled. Jehan nodded his head yes and Feuilly leaned down and kissed him.

Doing that he shifted his weight just so that the envelope next to him fell to the floor. A little card slipped out from between the pages of the letter on which a single poem was written. The text, among ink-drawings of ever shifting little branches and leaves, read:






My beloved bears a brand – just there on his right shoulder
I first had held to him my hand when I was but his beholder.
I meant not to reach to him again, oh, but ever so gently
left a leaf where my palm had lain to hide my trace intently.







My beloved saw plenty but not all, he saw not the linden
internally thriving since he had over my heart dominion.
His aim was not to till my heart nor mine for the leaf to cling where
I merely meant to mask my mark, meant not for my love to linger.







But, my beloved, it lingers still and eagerly spreads, leaving green
whenever I do more than look my fill but fill the spaces between
to ease my devotion – a little ease! May he be in loving a twin?
My tree, swept by his delicate breeze, is raining my leaves upon him.





