Title: The Heart Plays On
Work ID: 31262063
Author: Kaleran
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Reincarnation, high key inspired by The Red Violin, the violin is important, Angst, Trench Warfare, wwi, Russian Javert, German Valjean, Enemies to Lovers, but it's like a 30 minute speedrun of the trope, might write more lives of this universe but for now this is finished and stands alone, Javert has different names, Valjean has different names
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Sever does not like war. It is loud, chaotic, entirely unsanitary, and he would give almost anything to go back to being a policeman in Saint Petersburg and not a foot soldier in a muddy trench in Galicia, shouting orders and hoping that maybe the Germans will just give up so he can go home. At least, as a policeman, he was saving lives instead of ending them. Here, men die every day, killed by bullets or illness or, on occasion, suicide.

Sever has been thinking of that option himself.

The only reasons why he doesn’t is the thought that someday this madness will end and the fact that his priceless violin will doubtlessly be smashed to pieces without him to protect it. Even the thought leaves him panicked. He still plays, careful not to push the strings too hard as there is no replacing them anytime soon, on the nights when the air is quiet and still. The men ask for songs they can sing to; Sever only obliges on particularly hard nights. Instead, he plays what his teacher had taught him. Concertos, sonatas, capriccioso; everything from baroque to romantic. His case is beaten, the bow in desperate need of a rehair, but the violin remains whole and relatively unblemished.

They hear the planes before the bombs. His men scatter, shouting warnings, but all Sever can think of is his violin. When the bombs fall, he curls tight around the case and prays it is enough.

He wakes slowly, his ears ringing and a haze about his mind. The trench is mostly gone, turned into a crater. Bodies lay burnt and scattered. In the distance, someone is screaming. A long moment later, Sever realizes with some surprise it’s not him. When the scream dies a choking, wet death somewhere in the near distance, he doesn’t have it in him to feel their loss.

It takes some doing but Sever manages to push himself into a seated position under the shelter of a few displaced wooden planks with the arm not clutching his case tight to his body. They probably saved him from dying instantly, but he is not uninjured. The moment he’s coherent enough to survey the damage, the pain hits him. It’s all he can think of and he cries out, one broken voice in the silence. He clutches his violin case to his chest and tries to breath, his burnt back against the rough earthen wall. His breath comes in harsh gasps, little broken sounds escaping him with each exhale. It doesn’t feel like enough and he gasps another breath.

He doesn’t know how long he sits there, focusing on simply breathing. By the time he pushes the pain to the background, the sky is red. Sunset, Sever thinks distantly, but the bright red sky feels fitting for a man who is going to die. It must have been hours since the bomb detonated. The air holds a chill, but Sever hardly notices, not when his skin feels hot and cracked from the explosion.

No one has come to check for survivors. Distantly, Sever knows no one will. His regiment wasn’t holding an important front and men die every day. Now, he’ll be one of them. One of a statistic in a war room somewhere, without importance and without so much as his name.

Sever had never feared death on the streets as a policeman or even here in the trenches; he does now. A complete and overwhelming terror that he will die alone and unremembered because he has no one to remember him. Friends seemed to be nothing but a distraction, but now he desperately regrets not making at least one. His face is wet with hot tears before he knows it, from the pain, the fear, the regret. All he has is his fucking violin, his only possession, and it can’t comfort him when he can barely move, never mind play.

Sever has never felt so utterly alone. So utterly useless. His life seems insignificant when he looks back on it now; the only thing of worth being the violin in his arms.

He can’t feel anything lower than his hips and tries not to think the fact that his spine is probably broken or it’ll send him into a panic again. There’s shrapnel and rock embedded in his blackened skin and scoring the top of his violin case. He needs to open it, he needs to make sure nothing happened to it, but the moment he tries to let go he nearly screams with pain. He thinks his arm might be broken. Shattered by the strength of the blast. He leans his head back and fights back the tears and the nausea until all he feels is regret and hopelessness.

He will die here. It may take hours or days, but he will die here, alone, with nothing but his violin, and no one will mourn his loss. How fitting.

A distant shout reaches him in the dusky hours of twilight. German. Perhaps Sever won’t have to wait hours to die in painful misery. He doesn’t know if he prefers to die at the hands a German or left here alone to waste away from an impersonal bombing. A quick death would be preferred, he decides eventually. Even if it would be out of mercy. Even if he must look his enemy in the eye.

It is nearly dark by the time a German soldier finds him. The man’s dark hair is dirty with mud and grime, his shoulders broad, his gun held with certainty in one hand and a torch in the other, but his steps are careful, and he doesn’t lean down and check the bodies like he’s looking for anything of worth to loot. He’s only a few feet away when he realizes Sever is still alive, stopping with a surprised jerk. Sever winces at the light shone in this face.

“Are you here to kill me?” Sever asks him, his voice tight with pain. He doesn’t know any significant amount of German and it’s doubtful that this soldier knows Russian, but he can’t stop himself from asking.

The soldier says nothing. He does not even raise his gun. It is very irritating.

“Well?” Sever asks impatiently. “Get on with it, then!”

“I... no,” the soldier says in Russian.

Sever bares his teeth. “If our situations were reversed, I wouldn’t hesitate.”

The soldier looks away. “I know.”

A shout comes from further down what remains of the trench. The soldier hesitates, looks at him, and shouts back. Sever has no idea what’s being said.

“I am helpless,” Sever snarls, although the sentence ends with a wet cough and a sound of pain. “I... I can’t fight you. Just do it already; no need to wait for your friends.”

The soldier’s expression falls into something heartbroken. “I told them there was no one here.”

Sever laughs, a harsh bark that quickly turns into painful coughs and quiet whimpers he can’t quite stifle. No laughing then. Not like he laughs much to begin with.

The soldier puts down his gun.

Sever stares at him. “What are you doing.”

The soldier ignores him, folding his legs to sit within touching distance. “What’s your name?” His accent is strong, but there’s no hesitance in his words and his pronunciation is good. It’s better Russian than Sever expected from the enemy.

Sever almost a laughs again. He restrains himself to a snort. “Why do you care?”

“I’m Hans.”

“You’re annoying is what you are,” Sever mutters.

Hans waits, irritatingly patient.

“Sever,” Sever admits. “My name is Sever.”

“It’s nice to meet you, Sever,” Hans says.

“Savor it while it lasts,” Sever says, bitterness in his tone. “I’ll be dead soon enough. I can’t feel my legs. The pain is everywhere.” He closes his eyes. He won’t cry in front of a German. He won’t.

Hans sobers, looking down at his lap. His hair is brown, but already it’s streaked through with strands of white. Hans looks to be a decade or so younger than him and Javert has yet to find even one grey hair on himself. How strange, to start to go white at only thirty or so.

“Your Russian is very good,” Sever says when the silence is drawn out for too long.

“Thank you,” Hans replies. His eyes are hazel, maybe green. It’s hard to tell when his torch isn’t pointed at himself. “I don’t have much opportunity to use it like this.”

Sever closes his eyes, focusing on his breath instead of the pain.

“If you’re here to interrogate me, I’m afraid you’ll be disappointed,” Sever tells him eventually, tired and drained. “I don’t break that easy and I am soon to be dead anyway.”

“What?” Hans asks, looking up in confusion. “No, no I don’t do that. I don’t have the heart for it.”

“Hm,” Sever hums. “You are a very strange soldier. Why are you here?”

Hans laughs quietly. The sound is hollow. “I didn’t have a choice.”

“As did many,” Sever acknowledges. “I chose. I was a policeman in Saint Petersburg. Enlisting was no great decision. I thought I was being lawful, doing the right thing.”

“Do you still think that?”

Sever huffs, coughing as his lungs complain. “No.”

Silence falls between them. Sever rests his head against the wood and looks up at the stars. There isn’t much to see tonight. The men he lived and fought with are dead or gone, but he feels more at peace now here with an enemy soldier with certain knowledge that he is going to die than he has since the war started. Maybe even before that. How strange.

“What’s that you’re holding?” Hans asks, breaking Sever out of his thoughts.

“The only thing I’ve ever cared about,” Sever answers without thinking. “It’s my Heart.”

“What?”

Sever snorts, then immediately winces at the pain. “A violin. Old, Italian, probably worth more than a lifetime of police salary twice over if I ever sold it. It’s named the Heart, and it’s mine.”

“Oh,” Hans says, clearly surprised. “You play?”

Sever scoffs. “Of course I play. Do you think I would have it if I didn’t?”

“I think I’ve heard you,” Hans says. “Across the field, sometimes, when the nights are clear and quiet. You’re very talented.”

Sever doesn’t know what to say to a compliment from the enemy. “I’m not so good,” he ends up saying.

“I know what I’ve heard,” Hans says. “You should be in an orchestra.”

Sever snorts. “I’m not in an orchestra. Instead, I’m here in this God-forsaken hellhole and this violin is the only thing keeping me sane.” He shakes his head. “I can’t let go of it.”

“I understand.”

Sever nearly laughs again, but that would be painful. “No, idiot, I literally can’t move my arm without pain. I tried to protect it from the bombing, but I haven’t been able to check to see if I was successful.”

“Oh,” Hans says, looking away in clear embarrassment. “If you want, I can try...?”

“Please.” The word comes so easily. It shouldn’t. They’re on opposite sides, but something about Hans makes Sever trust him. He shouldn’t, but he does.

He’s dying. What should he care for boundaries and borders now? Why should he care when his own men didn’t come back for him? This German grants him more respect than most of his own men after only just meeting him. What a strange man. What an awful, terrible soldier. In any other situation, Sever would dismiss him at once for his soft heart. Now, he finds himself grateful.

Sever hisses in pain the moment Hans tries to take the case from him.

“I’m sorry—"

“Just get it over with!” Sever grits out. “I have to- I need to know it’s okay, just fucking do it, Hans!”

Hans still tries to be gentle despite Sever’s demands. Dried blood glues him to the case, pulling at his damaged skin and having Sever swearing up a storm. Every time, Hans apologizes, lets him rest, before trying again. Germans shouldn’t be apologizing to Russians. That isn’t how things work- and yet here Hans is, apologizing. Here Sever is, asking him please. The world is upside down and Sever... Sever doesn’t give a damn for perhaps the first time in his life.

“God, fuck!” Sever swears between clenched teeth when Hans finally pulls the case free. Sever’s broken arm falls to his side and he feels something in his ribs move in a way it wasn’t designed to. He closes his eyes and makes himself breathe so he doesn’t vomit thinking about it. He’s been injured before, has seen injuries both during his time as a policeman and here on the field and neither had bothered him. Perhaps it’s because he has never been this bartered, never had injuries to this extent before. Humans were not meant to break this much and still be alive enough to think about it.

“You might think about a new case,” Hans says. Sever is grateful; his voice gives him something to think about to distract him from the panic. He can’t think about the ribs that are broken and misaligned, the numbness that exists below his hips, the knowledge that there is nothing anyone can do to stop him from dying. He has never been so afraid, yet Hans gives him something to think about instead of dwelling on that terror.

“Is my Heart in one piece?” Sever asks. He coughs and tastes blood.

“I haven’t opened it yet,” Hans says. “I thought you would want to see first.”

Tears come unbidden to Sever’s eyes. He tells himself it’s because of the pain.

The case is whole, but clearly not in any state to be of use for much longer. Sever’s blood is covering the top of it, a long stripe where his arm held it close. There’s a dent in the top where he thinks his elbow was. He swallows, nauseous again.

He reaches out with his good arm, his fingers weak and stiff from cold. One latch flips up easily, the other is damaged and bent. Sever nearly cries when he can’t open it, panic rising in him.

“I- I can’t—”

“Let me,” Hans says gently. He pushes Sever’s hands down, fiddling with the latch. It takes a clear amount of effort for him to pry it open. Done, he offers it to Sever again.

Sever’s hands tremble when he opens the lid. The inside is clearly rattled, part of the top dented inward as he thought, but fine. His bow is cracked and clearly broken at the tip, but he doesn’t care about his bow. The Heart lays unbroken and unblemished. Hot tears of relief run down his face that he doesn’t even try to ignore. His hand mindlessly collects the broken pieces of the worthless bow and takes them out of the case and dropping them to the side. Then he reaches out again, his hand hovering over the instrument he’s played for so long, but his hand is covered in blood and dirt and he doesn’t dare touch as he wants to.

“I- I have blood on my hands,” Sever says, voice thick. “Can you check the back?”

“We’re in war,” Hans says. “We all—"

“For the love of—!” Sever snarls. “Hans, just fucking do it!”

“Oh,” Hans says, again clearly embarrassed. If Sever weren’t so irritated and panicked and dying, he might be amused. “Yes. Sorry.”

Something inside him unclenches when Sever sees the Heart’s whole and unblemished back. It’s a miracle that it’s not damaged. He thought that maybe the soundpost would have cracked the top or the back, but it didn’t. Seeing it now, Sever doesn’t regret sacrificing himself for it. But, knowing it’s history, perhaps it isn’t all that surprising that it survived. It seems has have a knack for surviving. Javert has once thought himself the same.

“It’s beautiful,” Hans says softly. His thumb runs across the strings, causing a soft, off-key sound. It’s gone out of tune in the blast, but that’s all.

“Do you play?” Sever asks, watching him with exhausted eyes. He’s never been comfortable with anyone else handling the Heart, but with Hans it doesn’t bother him. It almost feels right for him to hold it.

“I did, a little,” Hans admits. He touches the delicate curls of the scroll with awe. “I see why it’s so important to you.”

“It was a gift from my teacher,” Sever says. “He played for Tchaikovsky’s ballets, went with him to America to open Carnegie hall.” Sever huffs a quiet, painful laugh. “He told me that Tchaikovsky had panicked so much he nearly didn’t go on to conduct. Apparently, he hadn’t heard how grand it was.”

Hans laughs softly. The sound is warm and comforting. Sever would like to hear it when he isn’t distracted by pain and the knowledge that death is not far away.

“He left me the Heart in his will,” Sever says. “I hadn’t heard from him in years until this solicitor showed up at my door with the Heart. By then, I was already a policeman, but I couldn’t make myself part with it either.”

“Why is it called the Heart?” Hans asks.

“I have no idea,” Sever answers. “I find it fitting. I never asked, I simply accepted it. Presumably, it’s called that because it’s so easy to play expressively. Sometimes, I feel like I’m playing with my soul.” He snorts, wincing after. His head hurts. Talking is quickly draining him. “I’m usually much more pragmatic and logical about these sort of things, so maybe you can understand how special this instrument is. I didn’t even think of saving myself from the bomb when I knew I had left it here. I couldn’t—” He takes a rattling breath. “I couldn’t bear the thought of it being destroyed.”

“You love it.”

“It’s my Heart,” Sever answers honestly. “It’s the only thing I’ve ever loved.”

“Tell me about it?” Hans asks, absently tuning the strings. Sever is grateful for the question. The Heart is the most important part of him. His own life seems insignificant to the history of his violin. Passing on its story is only right.

“It was made in Cremona in 1693 by a maker no one’s ever heard of,” Sever tells him. “He lived at the same time as Stradivari, and therefore all anyone knows is Stradivari. If I tell people I play a Valjean, almost no one knows what that is.”

Hans stops abruptly. “Who did you say the maker was?”

“His name was Giovanni Valjean.”

Hans is quiet for a few moments. “That’s... that’s my name.”

“What?”

“My name is Hans Valjean.”

Sever blinks at him. “Do you have Italian roots?”

“French, actually,” Hans says. “My grandfather.”

“What an odd coincidence,” Sever muses. “My name is...” He shakes his head. Ridiculous. “Anyway, the other reason why people don’t know who Giovanni Valjean is because shortly after his death, his workshop was burnt to the ground for reasons unknown. Anywhere from thirty to sixty of his violins were lost in the fire alone, and it’s approximated he only made around two-hundred or so. That’s nothing compared to Stradivari’s thousand.”

Sever stops to take a few breaths. He’s light-headed, the pain oddly numb. It’s not long now, but here, with Hans and his Heart, and he is oddly content.

“He had a friend, a violinist that he lived with,” Sever continues. “He referred to Valjean frequently as ‘Vanni’ and Valjean referred to him as only ‘Saverio’ in their letters.” He huffs. “Saverio, or any number of affectionate pet names. Obviously, the two of them had something more than simple friendship, but try to get any historian to admit it.”

“Oh,” Hans says faintly.

“Exactly,” Sever replies. “I’ve always thought it serendipitous that Saverio’s name is not so far away from my own, and now you tell me your name is Valjean, just like his...”

Sever looks away, hoping Hans won’t take offense to what Sever implied, but he stays silent. How strange, these coincidences. It’s starting to feel like fate, but Sever has never believed in fate before. Maybe he’s entertaining such idiot thoughts because it’s only getting harder and harder to think.

“Valjean made the Heart specifically for Saverio,” Sever continues as if those thoughts never occurred to him. “Saverio’s journals say that Valjean fell ill not long after that. The Heart was his last finished violin.” He pauses to take a few breaths. “I met a collector to ask about the Heart’s history. The man had Saverio’s original journals and translated them for me. Saverio was never the same after Valjean’s death and wrote almost exclusively about his playing. Perhaps that is where the Heart gets its name, but I was never told.”

“How tragic,” Hans says. “They... they must have loved each other very much; for Giovanni to put so much care into the violin and for Saverio to care for it so dearly after Giovanni died.”

“Perhaps,” Sever agrees quietly. “I wouldn’t know. The only thing I have loved is the violin you’re holding.”

Hans is quiet for a long time.

“I wonder if it’s another... coincidence,” Sever says, surprising himself with his own boldness, “that the violin made out of love for another man has landed in my hands. Saverio and I are... much alike.”

“Yes,” Hans says, sounding distant. However, he doesn’t move to pull away from Sever’s clear admittance. “Surely coincidence.”

Sever hums. He wonders if there are any such likenesses between Hans and Valjean and finds himself hoping there might be. Ridiculous, obviously, because Sever is dying and Hans is German. But Hans still holds Sever’s Heart with gentle hands and Sever is starting to think that maybe he could hold something else, something that shares a name with his violin.

He wishes he had more time.

“Saverio tried to save the workshop,” Sever says suddenly, desperate to keep Hans talking to him. “When it burned. His lungs did not recover. When the Heart was stolen from him a year later, his health prevented him from chasing after. The last entry in his diary was... was a letter to Valjean. He apologized for letting the Heart get stolen, for not being fast enough to prevent the workshop from burning, for any number of other trivial things.”

“How did Saverio die?” Hans asks softly.

“There are no records,” Sever tells him. “It’s likely he died eventually from the smoke damage to his lungs, but it’s equally likely that his grief was so great he committed suicide.”

Hans says nothing, his expression one of profound sadness. Sever could almost swear he sees tears in Hans’s eyes, like the story means as much to him as it does to Sever. Something like kinship passes between them in that look. Sever is caring less and less about the fact that Hans is German, and more and more about how intently he listens, how he stays by Sever’s side, how strangely kind his hazel eyes are in this place of war.

“There are sightings of the Heart in various locations after that, although those reports are inconsistent and unverified,” Sever continues. He doesn’t know what to feel when Hans looks at him like that. He’s never received such a look before. “The next time the Heart was seen and reliably documented, it was in a shop in Paris in 1820 or so for repairs and, in another coincidence, also in the hands of a policeman. From there, it managed to find its way to Russia and my teacher, and now it is here.”

“So there are no other tragic romances?” Hans asks.

Sever looks at Hans and allows his lips to twist in a wry smile. “My teacher never told me how he acquired the Heart, nor why he took me into his care. I was an orphan then, just a boy.” Sever takes a moment to catch his breath. “All he would say was that I reminded him of an old friend, and then he would grow melancholy for the rest of the day. I have always wondered what kind of friend he meant, but never dared ask.”

“I see,” Hans says. He holds the Heart on his lap, fingers absently fingering the scroll. Sever has done the same thing countless times.

“Perhaps I will ask when I see him again,” Sever mused. He takes a slow breath, gathering his scattered thoughts. It’s getting harder to concentrate. His time is soon approaching, but he wishes it weren’t. “So, what did you do before our countries decided to attack one another?”

Hans looks at him in surprise. “You want to know?”

“Yes,” Sever answers, half-surprised it’s the truth. “It’s only fair.”

A smile plays at the corners of Hans’s lips. “I suppose so. I was a pruner in my youth. At some point, someone put a violin in my hand and I learned dance tunes to play sometimes in the local pub.”

“No Bach for you?” Sever asks with amusement. “No Vivaldi? Mozart?”

Hans laughs, warm and quiet. The sound of it makes him feel the same way playing the Heart sometimes does. “Not then, no. I ended up selling it to pay for a roof over my family’s head eventually. It was nothing special and likely needed repairs I couldn’t afford. It certainly wasn’t as fine as this and wouldn’t come close to what I’ve heard of your playing.”

Sever huffs. It turns into a cough that exhausts him before he can speak again. “Really, Hans... I’m not so good.”

“You are,” Hans replies with a smile.

Sever shakes his head, surprised to find his lips twitching upwards. He doesn’t remember the last time he smiled. Maybe when his teacher was still alive.

“I think... I think I would have liked to hear you play for me,” Hans says, his words halting and awkward. “If we weren’t at war.”

“I think, if I wasn’t... if we weren’t at war, I would have played if it was you asking,” Sever replies quietly. “Whatever piece you wanted.” He breathes, pushing through the fatigue wearing him down. “What did... what did you do after you sold your violin?”

“I was a teacher,” Hans answers. “I never really specialized in anything, but I taught the young ones the basis of math and reading and such. I’ve always been good at languages and I’ve always liked to listen to people’s stories.”

“Ah,” Sever says. He coughs weakly. “So that… that’s why you do not kill me.”

Hans’s smiles, but it doesn’t reach his eyes. “I am very bad at being a soldier, I’ll be the first to admit. My marksmanship scores impress my commanders, but I much prefer hunting animals to... to this. I can’t make myself pretend there aren’t men just the same as me across the field in the opposite trench. I can’t look into someone’s eyes and take their life, not even...” He swallows. “Not even if it would be the more merciful option. I’m sorry, Sever.”

“I’m not,” Sever says, surprising himself. “I’ve never... I’ve always known I was going to die alone. I have no one waiting for me... back in Saint Petersburg, no family, no friends to write to.” He pauses and tries to get more comfortable against the wall, wincing when his body punishes him for trying to move even a little. It’s getting harder to breathe. “But I’m... I’m not alone now, so I’m grateful. Even if... if you are a German.”

Hans laughs, but there’s something heartbroken about it. Sever wishes that things were different. He wishes he had met Hans somewhere else, somewhere without guns or bombs or death. He wishes he could play whatever Hans wanted at least once a day. Perhaps it’s only the frantic desires of a dying man, but he wishes he had the time to love Hans as Saverio loved Giovanni.

He wishes he knew what it was like to kiss Hans and realizes that there is no consequence for asking when the moment of his death is quickly approaching.

“Hans,” Sever says quietly, “may I ask something... unusual of you?”

“Of course.”

He says it so easily, like the inherent conflict of their respective countries means nothing to him. Sever wishes he were that certain about anything. He used to be.

“I am a dying man,” Sever says. “I have... regrets, like we all do.” He takes a breath that makes him cough. “Tell me, Hans. Are you in love?”

Hans blinks, surprised. “I... I don’t know.”

“I mean, is anyone waiting for you back home?”

“Only my students,” Hans answers. “The ones too young to go to war.”

Sever nods. He’s very tired, but he isn’t finished talking with Hans. He doesn’t ever want to be finished.

“Good,” Sever says. “I don’t... If you had someone, I wouldn’t ask you to kiss me.”

“...What?”

“You aren’t obliged,” Sever says. “But I am dying and... and you are very handsome... and I would like to know... how it would feel to kiss you.”

Hans stares at him for several moments. “Okay,” he says at last. “I’ve never, a-ah,” His face is flushed red in the light of his torch. “I’ve never done that with a man.”

“Me neither,” Sever admits, “although I have thought about it.”

“So have I,” Hans says softly.

He leans forward, hesitantly putting a hand on Sever cheek. Sever closes his eyes, relaxing into the feeling of warm, calloused skin. It’s the easiest thing in the world.

“I’m sorry if I’m bad at this,” Hans apologizes, close enough that Sever can feel his breath on his skin.

“Please,” Sever asks in a near-silent breath.

A slight hesitation, and then Hans’s warm lips are on his. They fumble together, a brush of lips turning into a firm press and then movement and then taste and oh. Sever didn’t expect Hans to taste just slightly of cheap cigarettes, but he wouldn’t want it any differently.

“I think,” Hans says quietly, pressing their foreheads together, breath mingling. His voice is thick. “I think I might have lied, before.”

“About what?”

“Being in love.”

Sever thinks about it as he looks into Hans’s kind eyes.

“Me too,” he says. “Do you think this is... coincidence?”

“That we are so like Giovanni and Saverio?” Hans asks, voicing what Sever had been too much of a coward to say.

“Yes.”

Hans runs his fingers across Sever’s face, smoothing his overgrown sideburns with care. Sever nearly weeps at his gentleness, at how it feels too much like fate for them to find each other like this. He doesn’t believe in fate, but he wants to.

“It doesn’t feel like coincidence,” Hans whispers. “I feel like I’ve been waiting for you, and now that I’ve met you at last I can’t— I don’t know how—"

“Kiss me,” Sever asks.

Hans’s next kiss tastes like tears. Some of them might be Sever’s own, but he doesn’t care.

“Take my Heart,” Sever tells him, struggling to keep his eyes open. He’s so very tired. He reaches out his unbroken arm to take Hans’s hand and push it weakly towards the violin. “I... I won’t need it where I’m going.”

Hans grasps Sever’s hand like he’s the one who’s dying. “Sever—"

“I want you to have it,” Sever inturrupts. “It’s yours... it’s always been yours, Hans. I didn’t... I didn’t know I was playing for you all this time.”

“I can’t play as well as you.” His voice breaks.

“I’m—" Sever fights to take a breath, forcing a smile. “I’m not so good.”

“Sever, please,” Hans asks, his fingers shaking as they stroke across his cheek again and again.

“If... if I lived,” Sever says, his breaths labored and wet. “I think... I think I could love you.”

His eyes close.

He doesn’t hear Hans say that he thinks he could love Sever too.

—

“What the hell took you so long?” one of Valjean’s squadmates asks with irritation when Valjean returns. “We were beginning one of those bastards was still alive and gutted you.”

“No,” Valjean responds dully. He holds the Heart’s case in his left with his rifle slung over his shoulder. His right stays in his pocket, clutching the dog tag he snapped off from around Sever’s neck. The metal digs sharply into his skin; it’s maybe the only thing stopping the tears from coming back immediately.

“What’s that you’ve got there?” another asks, carelessly blowing cigarette smoke from his lips. At any other time, Valjean might ask for one, but not now. Not when he can still taste Sever on his tongue, blood and all.

“A violin,” Valjean answers. “I heard it some nights from this side and thought...” His throat tightens and chokes on the lie. “I used to play.”

“So, did it survive?”

Valjean nods. “The bow was broken, but I can get a new one.”

They nod, then immediately loose interest in him, instead celebrating their victory and boasting about what small trinkets they salvaged off the bodies.

Valjean squeezes the dog tag in his pocket until his palm bleeds. He barely feels it.

The next night, he deserts, the Heart clutched to his chest and the half of Sever’s dog tag he stole clinking against his own around his neck. He runs across the barren fields, now quiet that the Russian side has been defeated and reinforcements have yet to arrive. He’s thought about deserting before, but now he can’t see the battlefield without hearing the faint sounds of a violin in his mind, can’t look at the trenches without imagining Sever laying there, covered in blood but looking at him with such strange affection in his dark eyes. He can’t stop remembering what it was like when he realizes Sever has stopped breathing and his hand went lax in Valjean’s own, what it felt like to kiss him for the third and final time, how his hands shook when he reached under Sever’s shirt to find the dog tag around his neck and snapping off one half of it.

It has been so strange, so fast, so easy to fall in love with him. He shouldn’t have gone looking for survivors, shouldn’t have sat and talked with a dying man, shouldn’t have kissed him. But he did. He stopped, he listened to the life and the passion in Sever’s voice, watched the wry smile that sometimes overtook his lips. He fell in love with the story of Giovanni and Saverio, fell in love with the violin Sever held so dear. Sever’s Heart.

Valjean supposes it’s his now too.