Title: The Midnight Ball
Work ID: 41753274
Author: LawrIsNotMocked
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy, Marius Pontmercy/Éponine Thénardier
Additional Tags: Tanz der vampire - Freeform, Dance of the Vampires - Freeform, Fearless Vampire Killers - Freeform, Vampire Hunters, Les Miserables - Freeform, Crossover, Les Mis - Freeform, valjean/javert - Freeform, marius/cosette - Freeform, marius/eponine - Freeform, javert is a vampire, javert is krolock, enjolras is professor abronsius, marius is alfred, not exactly a perfect crossover, eponine is a vampire, eponine wants to turn marius into a vampire, javert wants to turn valjean into a vampire, enjolras wants to kill javert, valjean is just a nosy dude who wants to see some vampires
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 3/?

At the base of a steep dark mountain, there lay a snowy quaint village. The village was small and unassuming. The mountain overshadowed the inns and houses. On a full moon, bats could be seen flying overhead, silhouetted against the light of the moon. The village people were superstitious and simple. They believed at the top of a mountain, a great castle existed, and inside, vampires. The villagers lined their doors and homes with garlic and crosses, taking extra care to arm themselves on nights of the full moon. Never had anyone actually seen these alleged vampires, but it was rumored that the bats they often saw were actually said vampires. Everyone knew someone who had seen or been turned into a vampire. One particularly cold night, a group of strangers came to the village.


The door of the inn swung open. "Help! Help! Someone! Innkeeper! My friend has frozen to death on the trek here!" A young man burst forth, dragging the body of another young man, a blonde man. The darker-haired man was carrying trekking and climbing gear. An older man and his daughter, who were sitting in a darker corner of the room, and who had been having a conversation a few moments ago, looked up, startled.



"What's all this?" The innkeeper asked, peering up from his seat at a table near the fire. His wife and several other women who worked at the inn ran to the door. They helped prop the blonde man up in a chair, and immediately began wrapping him in towels and blankets, and removing his shoes and putting his feet in buckets of hot water. They rubbed his legs briskly.



"On the journey here! He just collapsed! He must have frozen to death!" The conscious man exclaimed, somewhat hysterically.



"This cold isn't for everyone, that's for certain," the innkeeper replied casually, not bothering to intervene with the women's work. The young man looked panicked. "Azelma, go fetch this nice lad some soup, eh?"



At that, a young girl sitting by the fire jumped up and led the gentleman to the fire, sat him down, and retrieved a hot bowl of soup for him. A few minutes later, a surprised shout came from the middle of the group of women. It was a man's shout. The blonde man had come back to life, it seemed.



"What is this?!"



The dark haired man sprung up and ran to his side. "Enjolras! Thank god you're alright! I feared you had frozen to death!"



"I must have passed out..." Enjolras ran his hand over his face and through his hair and sighed heavily. "Where are we now?"



"We're at an inn, at the base of the mountain," the other man supplied quietly. He gave a significant glance to Enjolras.



"Very well. Tomorrow we shall journey onward."



The innkeeper now sauntered over. "Sir, you must stay at least one more night, I insist! This weather is no good for a foreigner, and you have just nearly died! Let us be your hosts until you are fully recovered."



Enjolras sighed. "Fine. But only one more night. Then we must get on with our business."



"And what is this very important business, sir?" Thenardier, the innkeeper, asked as casually as possible.



"None of yours!" Huffed Enjolras.



Marius, the man accompanying Enjolras, saw the innkeeper and his wife give each other suspicious glances, and chimed in, "My friend means to say, we are... sort of... explorers, if you will. We have heard of a castle up the mountain, and we wanted to see if it was really there."



"No, no! There is no such place!" Immediately exclaimed Thenardier's wife. The inn fell silent, and the young men and father and daughter in the corner of the room stared at her, wide-eyed. "I simply wish for you to not waste your time and energy, is all," the woman said, almost too sweetly and innocently.



"We shall find out for ourselves, then, madam."



"Of course, of course..." She sneered, wandering away, muttering under her breath. Marius could have sworn he heard her say something about 'getting yourselves killed,' but he could not be certain.



As soon as the innkeepers and employees were safely out of earshot, Marius pulled Enjolras towards the fire, and the two of them ate the soup, exchanging words quietly about their upcoming journey. Little did they know, the man and his daughter in the corner, and the innkeepers' daughter were all attempting to evesdrop.



However, they were not the only ones attempting to evesdrop. The innkeepers' daughter Azelma had also wanderd off, but not so far as to not overhear important details of the men's travel plans. As they sat, hunched by the fire, talking in hushed voices, she crept over to them.



"Sirs?" They both nearly jumped out of their skin.



"Good god, woman! You scared the sh-"



"Yes, miss?" Marius cut off his companion with a far sweeter tone, smiling up at her. He was certainly the more hysterical one, but also better at talking to people, it seemed.



"I couldn't help but overhear that you have plans to journey up the mountain soon," she said nervously, looking at the floor.



"That is certainly none of your concern," Enjolras stated coldly.



"It is true that those are our plans, yes," Marius added gently.



"My sister went up the mountain about 4 months ago, and never came back."



"Oh, my god! I am so sorry, miss. That is truly-"



"I believe she became a vampire."



"I - oh." That stopped Marius and Enjolras both in their mental tracks. Neither of them expected her to say that.



"She always had a fascination with the castle up there, and the vampires that dwell there. She said she'd see them fly into town some nights under the full moon, as bats! She talked to the servant of the owner of the castle sometimes. She told me he told her she was welcome to visit. So one night, she finally did. Snuck away in the middle of the night."



"And you're certain she became a vampire? How did she not freeze to death, or get eaten by wolves?"



"Enjolras - "



"I just know, sir. She's tough. And she always wanted to become a vampire."



"So it is real, then? The castle, and the vampires?"



"Yes, sirs."



"Why did your parents say it is not?"



"They don't want to think about it. They're scared of them. The whole town is. Did you see the garlic everywhere? Doorframes, tables, lamp posts? They want to kill them, though, for turning Eponine. Father says one day he'll go up there and kill the owner of the castle, but I don't believe he's brave enough."



"Well, that confirms it. Tomorrow, Marius, we shall journey onward and find out about these vampires, ourselves."



"What interest do you have in them, sirs?"



"We are... academics, and we have done much research on this topic. We want to see if they are real, and if our theories hold up."



"Well, be careful. And if you meet Eponine, tell her Azelma says hello and that she misses her. Goodnight, sirs."



"Goodnight, miss." And with that, Azelma Thenardier wandered off to bed.



The man and his daughter in the corner overheard everything.

"Do you think it's true, Papa? That the girl became a vampire?"


"I can't be certain. Seems like an old wives' tale, but you never know, especially around these parts. Strange magic seems to be afoot in the base of these mountains."



"How terrible..."



"But how terribly exciting," the man replied, winking to his daughter. The man was named Jean Valjean, and his daughter was Cosette. They were travelers, and were always intrigued by local legends, ghost stories, and anything with an air of mystery.



"Papa, are you thinking what I'm thinking....?"



"We should get a move on, before those vampire hunters get to them, if we want to find out for ourselves."



"I'll start packing my bags now!" And with that, Cosette excitedly scampered from the adjoined room she and her father shared to her room. After packing up the few posessions she had unpacked in the 2 days they had already been at the inn, she decided to freshen up in the restroom, which was down the hall, since the inn was an older style, built more like a house. Cosette hummed an old lullaby she couldn't remember where she'd learned it from as she picked up her brush and ran it through her hair. Suddenly, the door flew open, and Cosette, not the jumpy type, set her brush on the counter and looked up to see one of the academics standing there, looking very startled and confused.



"Oh, god! I am so sorry, miss!! I did not realize someone was in here, the door was not locked, and I - "



Cosette chuckled. "That is quite alright, sir. I was just brushing my hair, anyway. Nothing too scandalous."



"Oh," he nervously agreed. "Indeed."



"Anyway, I am done now... it is all yours."



"What is all mine?" The man still looked confused.



"The restroom," she laughed, as she strode past him, and back down the hall to her room. The man stood there for several seconds, dazed, frozen, after she walked past. He vaguely made note that she smelled of roses.



"Ah, yes. Of course," he said to no one.



Back in her room, Cosette grabbed her belongings, and went to the common room, where Valjean was waiting with his bags.



"Ready?"



"Yes, Papa!"



"Are you excited?" He asked with a twinkle in his eyes. She knew he was just as excited as she was.



"I am always ready for the next adventure with you," Cosette replied, beaming.



"Then let us be off... but remember, it is late, so let's be quiet. We don't want anyone else waking and finding out we're heading up to the castle. Especially not those young men! We want to see if they're real, don't we? We can learn about them, maybe even see if that girl's sister really became one of them."



"Of course!"



"And bundle up extra tight, Cosette! It is freezing outside, and we'll have a bit of a trek."



"Yes, Papa."



"And Cosette?"



"Yes, Papa?"



"Do you have your cross handy, just in case?"



"Yes, Papa."



"That's my girl."



With that, the two of them went downstairs, which was quiet and dark, and put on their warmest woolen hats, gloves, scarves, and coats. Valjean unlocked the door and the father and daughter crept out, with hardly any sound, except for the heavy wooden door, which creaked slightly. They began their journey up the rest of the mountain, guided only by moonlight, which reflected off the snow.



Mere minutes later, Marius came running down the stairs, looking around frantically, Cosette's hairbrush in hand. "Miss?" He whispered loudly.



He ran back upstairs, and knocked on Enjolras' door. No reply. They had to leave now, so he could rescue Cosette! If she and her father didn't freeze to death, or get eaten by wolves, the vampires would surely come and kill them or turn them into vampires. He had only just met her tonight, but Marius was truly smitten. He knew he had to protect her... surely she didn't realize what she would be dealing with! He and Enjolras had studied these things... vampires are ruthless, cunning, seductive, and ever eager for another meal of human blood. "Enjolras!" He whispered as loudly as he dared.



Finally, a very sleepy, very annoyed-looking Enjolras opened the door. "What."



"We have to leave tonight! The man and his daughter, they left!"



"The innkeeper?"



"No, the man in the corner, when we got here!"



"I have no idea who the hell you're talk-"



"There was a man! And his young daughter! She is beautiful! They left the inn!"



"So? They decided to go home, probably."



"But what if they freeze, or wolves get them? Or the vampires come down from the castle to feast upon them? Oh, I could not bear it!"



"I'm sure they'll be fine."



"No, Enjolras, please! We must leave now!"



"Marius. It is 1am. Do you realize how ridiculous you sound? I'm sure," here, Enjolras yawned, "they know what they're doing, especially if they left in the middle of the night. Do you understand? They will be fine. They're probably experienced travelers." Without knowing them, Enjolras had just spoken the truth, but Marius seemed less convinved. However, he conceded.



"I... I supposed that could be true, but... but what if...? I just can't stand to think that if something happens to them, to her, I could have prevented it..."



"With what, a woman's hairbrush?" Enjolras glanced down at Marius' hand skeptically.



"What?" Marius forgot he was holding it. He looked down at his hand, sheepishly. "Oh, no, this is-"



"Marius, rest." And with that, Enjolras shut his door again.

Shivering all over, Valjean and Cosette collapsed at the drawbridge entrance. It was 3am, and the moon was full and bright. Snow was flurrying around, catching in their eyebrows and eyelashes. But they had finally made it to the castle atop the mountain. They would finally see if vampires truly lived there.


"Cosette..." Valjean huffed. Cosette's teeth merely chattered in response. "We.... we made it," he smiled weakly. With that, they both passed out from the cold and sheer exhaustion.



When they awoke, they were in warm, comfortable beds in a large, ornately-decorated room. The beds had canopies that went all the way to the vaulted ceiling. Heavy, hand carved wooden furniture adorned the room, grounded by a lush, thick oriental rug in warm, rich colors. A fire roared in the large fireplace. The room was lavish but inviting and comfortable. Heavy velvet curtains with intricate designs embroidered on them were pulled across the enormous windows.



Suddenly, a scraping sound came from the hall, then thudding... then squeaking? Valjean and Cosette looked at each other, frightened, but unable to move. The heavy door creaked, then crashed open. Valjean and Cosette both jumped in place, surprised. A man of average height came in, wheeling a silver cart with beautiful silver covered dishes and goblets, utensils, and a pitcher covering the surface. The man had short grey hair, a trimmed mustache, and wore a simple shirt, grey waistcoat, and black pants. He made a gesture to the food, then to the two of them, and muttered a word that sounded like, 'eat.' With that, he turned around and went back out into the hallway with a slight limp, slamming the door behind him, making the pair jump yet again. Stunned, they cast shocked glances towards each other, but also eyed the food hungrily.



"Do you... do you suppose it's safe?"



"If they were to kill us, I imagine it'd be by biting our necks, no?" Valjean nervously laughed.



Cosette inched in her bed closer to the cart, eyebrows raised. "It does smell delicious..."



Right as she raised her hand towards one of the covered dishes, the door flung open again, revealing a tall, slender man with long, straight dark hair with bits of grey running through it. He wore a deep blue waistcoat, black pants, and a flowing, shimmering deep blue cape with a very large collar that stood up behind him. His eyes, in contrast to his clothing, were incredibly pale blue. He had no facial hair other than neatly trimmed sideburns.



"Ah!" The caped man exclaimed. "You must be my visitors from last night! I have heard about you. I am Javert; this castle belongs to me."



Valjean rose hurriedly, extending a hand to shake Javert's. "Monsieur Javert, I am Jean Valjean, and this is my daughter Cosette. We are delighted to meet you! Thank you for your hospitality... you see, we got lost in the woods in the mountain. We are travellers, and must have collapsed near your impressive residence last night sometime."



"Indeed? I see you have met Rivette. He is my servant, and the one who brought you here last night. He said you were nearly frozen to death, the both of you."



"We are eternally thankful for his quick thinking," Cosette chimed in.



Javert just barely smiled. "Well, I shan't keep you from your breakfast. You must be famished. Please! Enjoy," Javert gestured to the contents of the cart with a bejeweled hand. "And please feel free to stay as long as you like. Make yourselves at home! This castle is something of a history museum... it has been in my family for centuries. I, myself, will have to be off to bed... I stayed up rather late last night."



"Not on our behalf, I hope!" Valjean interjected worriedly.



"No, do not fret. Old habit, I'm afraid... I am something of a night owl, it seems." And with that, Javert swept out of the room, the door closing as softly behind him as his cape, which fluttered in the wind in his wake.