Title: The Rising of an Unknown Sun
Work ID: 36759103
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Attempted Historical Accuracy, Sûreté, Angst, Case Fic, Demisexuality, Homophobia, Internalized Homophobia, Romantic Fluff, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Minor Violence, Family, Romani Javert, Suicidal Thoughts, Unresolved Sexual Tension, Eventual Smut, Some implied racism
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 31/31

Valjean's hand came to rest heavily on Javert's shoulder, and rubbed a circle as the latter ducked in an attempt to hide his delighted smile. He didn't know what to say as Javert fumbled for the key and opened the door, so he remained close but silent as they started making their way slowly up the stairs.

As they reached a small landing midway and turned, Valjean wondered if his companion would be able to make it up the remaining steps. It had been a long...night? Morning? He wondered if Javert's fits weakened the man afterwards. And he doubted that he had it in him to haul Javert up a second time now, unassisted. He pictured them resting together on the landing. It wouldn't be the most uncomfortable night they had spent together, he thought wryly, with a sudden memory of the night years ago which Javert had apparently spent crouched outside of his room in the Gorbeau house, listening for him. They walked slightly unevenly, and as first one then the other fell slightly behind and below, Valjean's hand had slid down to the dip of Javert's lower back.

Despite Valjean's worries, they reached Javert's door without incident and stumbled into the dark apartment. “I left the matches by the window – here, let me go get them,” said Valjean. Only the faintest light made its way up from the streetlights to the third floor, and he was unable to find his way. Javert strode past him with the assurance of one who has lived in a place for years, and who is furthermore not in the habit of leaving things on the floor. He felt along the window briefly, then returned to light the candle Valjean had left at the doorway.

Javert shed his cap, boots, and coat without ceremony, gesturing for Valjean to do the same. He was unable to suppress a yawn while Valjean tugged at his boots. “I wasn't being coy, you know, earlier,” Javert said, still watching Valjean. “I'm going straight to sleep, and you are, too. Let's go.”

He began removing his cravat, and meeting Valjean's nervous look, hesitated for a moment, and said “I believe I have another bowl? Will you allow me my last throw?”

“Of course.”

There was a pause as Javert tidied away the cravat. “You will think me far too impertinent, but you have so far evaded my question, so really I think this is on you.” Valjean froze. “I don't believe you ever married, although quite a few ladies of Montreuil had their eyes on you.” Valjean shook his head, then Javert continued with this nightmare. “Do you keep a mistress? God knows you could put her up in style.” Valjean remained silent under interrogation. “Your  camarade de couple  – Chenildieu, wasn't it? ... I remember from Arras but I believe I must have left Toulon prior to his arrival... Valjean -” it was as if the other man's continued silence drew the words out of Javert, “have any of your lovers been men?”

Valjean was blushing deeply and hardly knew what to say. Under the circumstances, having followed Javert up to his bedroom, he could hardly feign shock. “Javert … I … I've never had a sweetheart.”

“A  sweetheart?” A tone of disbelief had crept into Javert's voice.

“Certainly nothing more. Whatever sins you think I have committed over my life, I've never done  that - ”

“Are you trying to tell me that you are a virgin at your age?”

“And what is wrong with that?” asked Valjean defensively.

“Nothing, it's just that – you always surprise me. You always have, I suppose. You never seem to be the man I was expecting.” The sardonic cloak that Javert seemed to habitually wear fell aside. As Valjean met his gaze, it seemed open: nothing more or less.

“You are disappointed?” The question came out more as a statement.

“No.” The openness faded, to be replaced by that toothy wolf's smile. “Besides, with you I've always liked the chase.”

Valjean, disconcerted, watched as Javert continued to get ready for bed. Javert silently emptied his pockets, removed his waistcoat and sash, and scrubbed off the last of the makeup he had worn. He handed Valjean a clean cloth, which he accepted and used to wipe his face and neck. Javert was glaring with distaste at the spots of blood on his sleeves from a struggle earlier that night, and he tugged the shirt off, exchanging it for a larger nightshirt. Valjean had turned to allow him privacy, although Javert didn't seem to care. He himself was wearing an unadorned smock shirt, and was unwilling to take it off.

“But why now?” Javert said, as if continuing a line of thought that must have been going through his head. “You do realize that none of this -” his gesture vaguely encompassed the bed and the room, “are part of any agreement we make about your parole?”

Valjean's embarrassment began to turn to anger. “If I had thought you were the kind of man who would abuse his position that way, you wouldn't have had to ask twice for me to have you sacked, I can tell you that.”

“I suppose that's fair.”

“I told you the truth, you know. You frightened me, a few times infuriated me. But I always thought you honorable.”

“Well, compared to the company you kept -” began Javert, but his heart clearly wasn't in the jab. “But why now, Valjean? You cannot possibly expect me to believe that my beauty has overwhelmed you after a life of deprivation.”

Valjean didn't know how to put words to what had been bouncing around his head that night. Something was beginning to coalesce, he could feel it, but nothing seemed clear. It was true that Javert was not the most handsome man he had ever met, it was also true that he had never recognized in himself a particular interest in the handsomeness of men.

Javert was by far his longest acquaintance, although Valjean was coming to realize how little he had ever known of Javert. But the man had been watching him for years, observing. He knew about the little Savoyard, he had guessed about the bishop. A month ago, Valjean had been ready to turn himself in, exhausted by his life of hiding and solitude, never able to use his real name, and suspicious of everyone he encountered. But the formerly irreproachable inspector had made the choice to let him go, and even offered him the chance of greater freedom (he trusted without question that Javert's offer to seek legal safety for him had been sincere). To have learned that Javert did not let him escape in a fit of madness, but rather had decided to give him a gift while in sound mind – this had floored Valjean. It was a gift beyond simple liberty, the fact that his old enemy, the man who knew him best, had judged him worthy. He had always respected Javert's integrity and honesty, even as an adversary, and he knew that Javert's good opinion of a person did not come easily. He wanted to understand the inspector as well, and to be the one who saw him. He wanted to protect Javert from himself: from the fits that overwhelmed his mind and body, and from the dark moods that threatened to overpower him.

Furthermore, Valjean had simply been longing for companionship. To his surprise, he had found himself welcoming Javert's playful touches that night. What more would he allow? He had found himself thinking: what more did he want?

“Isn't it enough that I do want your company, want you?” He didn't want to continue to overthink things, and anyway his mind was protesting that it was simply done for the day. So he drew in closer, and pressed his lips to Javert's.

Javert's lips opened with a small exhalation, not quite a moan, as he slowly took control of the kiss. He was not rough, but responded to Valjean's uncertainty with firmness and a growing eagerness. He drew back slightly to breathe. “It's enough,” he whispered against Valjean's cheek, answering the question Valjean had already forgotten that he had asked.

“Well,” Javert said with a yawn after another moment of silence. “We need to get some sleep. You will find that I can be a gentleman.” He pulled the blankets back and settled down onto a side of the bed, and so Valjean did likewise.

In a movement that Valjean felt was very daring, and an observer would have found very timid, he put a large arm over Javert's side. Javert let out a contented sigh, and seemed to fall asleep almost immediately, although Valjean would have had to have admitted that he was having trouble identifying his companion's states of consciousness. Valjean waited a moment, and almost experimentally, pulled himself in closer and rested his face against the nape of Javert's neck. Valjean had not thought that he would fall asleep easily here, but exhaustion quickly claimed him while he lay pressed against Javert.

Although Valjean was habitually an early riser, both men slept late into the morning. They awoke to a loud rapping on the door, and for a moment stared back and forth between one another and the door. Valjean was briefly disoriented after being suddenly awoken in the strange apartment, but quickly remembered everything.  Embarrassment and uncertainty quickly followed.

“Moineau,” groaned Javert. “Why did I tell him that he could come by this morning?”

“He probably misses you. How long had he been posing as Claquesous?”

Javert's reply was unintelligible. The knocking had paused, but grew more insistent after a moment. Javert got out of bed with another noise of complaint, donned the rest of his clothes, and glanced back at Valjean, who was likewise trying to make himself tidy.

Valjean dreaded this meeting; he was not ready for it. Where did he stand? Who was this Moineau to him – he couldn't be sure. What was Javert to him? Last night everything had hung in the air effortlessly, an effervescence apart from his ordinary life. But now they had slept until the daylight was already harsh, and there was no more illusion of unreality to hide behind.  

“Took you long enough, Sacha,” said Moineau as Javert crossed the open room and opened the door to allow him in. “Oh, hello.” He spotted Valjean and greeted him nonchalantly.

The young man’s casualness was worse than any shock on his face would have been, Valjean thought, as if there had never been any doubt in Moineau's mind that Valjean would end up in Javert's bed. He felt the absurd urge to explain that they had only slept; it had been completely innocent. He knew he could say no such thing, and what an absurd picture that would make anyway, as he defended his virtue as if he were a young maiden and not an old man who had spent two decades in prison.

“Have you had breakfast yet?” asked the newcomer.

Realizing he was hungry, Valjean replied, “No, there's nothing to eat here. Sorry about those eggs, Javert.”

“Right, your whole person is forfeit, don't you forget that,” grumbled Javert, who didn't sound particularly like he was joking.

Moineau cocked his head slightly, but apparently decided he was not going to ask. “Let us go to a cafe,” he said. “You two look like you could use some breakfast and sunshine.”

“What we need is another few hours of sleep. Can't a man even sleep when he's dead?” But Javert was reaching for his hat and coat despite his complaints, and Jeannot clearly knew better than to bother replying.

The morning was already hot, promising to get hotter. The crowding in the street struck Valjean. He took very little conscious notice of the fact, but the population of the neighborhood where he lived had become sparse lately. Residents fled Paris, as the specter of cholera threatened. This part of the city, where no one had a second home or property outside of Paris, or the resources to move on short notice, took little notice of the epidemic.

They didn't go far. Valjean followed Javert and Moineau, who seemed to know where they were going, down a narrow side street, and then at the next intersection was a corner cafe. Several small tables lined the sidewalk, and only one was occupied.

“What do you think, Moineau? Is our Claquesous ready for a day in the sun, or shall we go inside?”

Moineau smiled slightly and sat down by way of answering. Javert caught the eye of a waitress, who nodded, and they all sat down.

The waitress brought them a carafe of coffee without asking. “Good morning, Monsieur Javert.”

“Good morning, Clémence. The usual, please.” She finished taking the order, and with a curious backwards glance, returned inside.

Javert poured the coffee into their three mugs, and began to drink his with the same determination that he had brought to the rum the previous night. They talked idly, sporadically while waiting for their breakfast to arrive. Valjean felt a reserve around Moineau, and wondered how much it was reciprocated.

Then Moineau said “By the way, Sacha, I'm going to visit my mother soon – I haven't been able to see her at all since going undercover, of course. Shall I send her your regards? She was asking about you the last time I saw her.”

“I would like to meet her,” interrupted Valjean on impulse.

“You -” “Why?” The two half-brothers wore identical expressions of confusion – the first resemblance that Valjean noticed between them.  It would have been comical, if Valjean had not felt a sharp jolt of stress at the need to explain himself.

The return of their waitress with the tray of food could not have come at a better time for Valjean, who was scrambling to find a half-truth. “You said that she owns a print shop? My daughter needs the services of a print shop.” Valjean couldn't bring himself to say what he suspected - it was simply too fantastic. He hoped there would be time enough later.

“Fine, all right, I'll introduce you, but not today. Today we are busy,” said Javert pointedly. “Valjean, I will be taking you with me when I visit the prefecture today.  We can get everything sorted out to have you living legally in Paris. Unless you have any objections?”

“Certainly not.”  It wasn’t how he had been planning to spend the day, but come to think of it, he wasn’t planning anything at all.  

Then something clearly struck Javert. “Pardieu, that's right, your daughter! Where is she? You haven't sent her any word on where you have been? Valjean, you haven't been pulling my leg about this whole daughter business, have you?”

“No! She's fine, I left her at home with our dear housekeeper.” He turned specifically to Javert. “I'm afraid she's rather used to mysteries from me.”

“Hmph, I don't doubt it.”

Valjean continued, “I suggested that I might not be back anytime soon when I left yesterday. I thought maybe you had left my name and address for your colleagues, and so I was prepared to be arrested.”

“You thought that I'd leave your address as a suicide note?”

“Sounds like Sacha,” chimed in Moineau.

“Anyway, keep it down, show some discretion, Valjean. You still aren't legally in the clear, and we aren't in a dark tapis-franc anymore,” Javert added quietly.

“So he's still -” Moineau hesitated. “He's not like Bernard, is he?”

“Bernard?” Valjean repeated at Javert with a glare.

Javert met his glare with a hint of exasperation. “Bernard is a friend of mine. I arrested him, but later uncovered evidence of his innocence. And no, Moineau, I'm afraid I won't be put to the trouble of proving this one's innocence.” Moineau nodded with equanimity. It seemed that the young man was curious, but not particularly interested in passing judgment.

Clémence returned with the food: eggs, bread, and cheese. Evidently Javert and Moineau had been as hungry as Valjean, for all were silent as they began their meal.

“What are you going to do until Vidocq finds another task for you?” Javert asked Moineau. Valjean listened up; he had just been brooding over his own future.

“I'm not sure. You assume that I'm waiting for another ‘task’ from Vidocq! I was thinking of inquiring after a job down at the theaters later today.”

“They won't offer you a better role than that of Claquesous, I can tell you,” Javert replied teasingly, which led to an argument between the two brothers. Their back and forth gave Valjean space enough to think, and he got lost in his own head while he watched them.  The time passed pleasantly enough, until Javert abruptly checked his watch and reminded Valjean that they needed to be getting to the prefecture.

“Goodbye for now, my Moineau, and give my regards to Madame Xavier,” said Javert as they stood up and prepared to go their separate ways.

***

Javert reviewed several legal options for Valjean as they walked to the Prefecture of Police. He concluded, “I think the best bet is to work to get you a pardon – it would allow you to live freely and clear your name, but it would take time. There are people to talk to, letters to have written, a formal petition to be made … In the meantime, since I have somehow found myself leading a band of thieves, I will just fill out the paperwork to name you an agent of the Sûreté for now, and put you under my charge. Just for the love of god keep your mouth shut about anything to do with that night at the barricade. Your work can be purely nominal if you are still having qualms.”

“As you say, I'm sure,” replied Jean Valjean, agreeably. He himself had never looked into getting a pardon – it seemed completely out of reach.  He rather distrusted that the same society that had cast him out, and made him a prisoner for so many years, could now suddenly be convinced to forgive him and wipe the slate clean.

“Just keep out of trouble and I will take care of the rest.” 

Jean Valjean felt a shadow fall over him as they arrived at the foot of the prefecture. It was an unremarkable building, but made him shudder. How often would he have looped around, taking the long way to any given destination rather than risk approaching a police station? Now he was approaching the central police station in Paris. He unconsciously stayed close to Javert as they stepped inside.  Javert showed his card to an officer waiting near the door, and they were waved inside.  

They arrived inside a shared duty room to find Vidocq already there, hunched over a desk. He looked up.

“Hello, Monsieur Valjean. Same clothes, unless I am mistaken? You're blushing, man.” Vidocq's gaze cast disapprovingly on Javert, who ignored it completely.

“Hello, Mec. They can't keep you away from here, can they?” said Javert.

“Hm, worry about yourself – apparently I can't keep  you  away from here. Don't you think you should be resting, after those spells you had yesterday?”

“There's nothing wrong with me. I'm bringing Valjean in to get everything legal.”

Vidocq sighed. “I've been here all morning wrapping up loose ends for Allard. He  agreed  that it would make sense for me to wrap up my work on the Patron-Minette case.” Javert snorted. “So once you've set up things with Valjean, let's you and I have a meeting with Fauntleroy and see where things stand. By the way, what is your plan for what to do with Jean Valjean?”

Javert repeated himself, telling Vidocq what he had just gone over with Valjean. 

“Aren't you forgetting something? Inspector Javert is dead, he can't supervise  Le-Cric  here,” Vidocq commented. “You aren't using a false name, are you?”

“Right, that is a complication...You know I draw the line at false names. I never manage to answer to them, unlike Monsieur Madeleine here.” Valjean looked up, earning a silent chuckle from Javert. “Well, it's been terrifically dull while it lasted, but I think it's time for me to officially be brought back to life. You said you had the right forms?”

“No, you know I don't have time for that. Head on down to the office of the secretary and point out that you are alive. I'm sure they will sort you out.”

A few police officers trickled in and out while they worked, including the young Inspector Canler. “Good day, Inspector Javert,” he said with a respectful nod. “I brought in that pickpocket – the one who has been working the church crowds.” Taking notice of Valjean, he added, “Monsieur, I do not believe we were introduced, but were you not at the Coeur Percée last night?”

“Faunchl - ” Valjean began, extending his hand, before noticing the sharp look from Javert. “Valjean. It's a pleasure to meet you, Canler.”

“And what is your role here?” asked Canler with a tilt of his head, and his habitual frown in place.

While Valjean hesitated again, Javert answered, “I'm enlisting him. Meet Jean Valjean of the Sûreté.”

“So he's – I see.” Canler nodded, looked back and forth between Vidocq and Valjean, teeth gritted slightly, and silently went to an unoccupied table to fill out his paperwork.

Javert sighed, glanced significantly at Valjean, then resumed writing. Valjean's nerves, already on high alert upon entering the prefecture, were further strained by having nothing to do. He watched over Javert's shoulder.

After a moment, Vidocq's loud voice rang out. “Cut it out, Canler. That's Javert's convicted felon. You will have to find one of your own.”

“Monsieur? I haven't said a word.”

“I can see you arresting him with your eyes. It's a wonder the poor fellow's wrists aren't chafing already.”

“It's your wrists that -” began Canler peevishly, clearly getting worked up for a whole argument.

“Always he's like this. You'll tune him out quickly enough,” Javert murmured as an aside to Valjean.

“Which one?” Valjean asked quietly.

Valjean's breath caught as Javert gave him a playful shove. “All of them, I suppose.”

***

After what seemed like hours of paperwork and letter writing, Javert sat back with a long stretch. “There now, Valjean: you are as close to an honest man as you are going to get today, and I have been returned to life. Not bad at all, as miracle working goes.” Valjean nodded in approval. “Let's turn these in and go find Eugene – I'm at his disposal now. Are you coming with us or heading out? Fauntleroy won't give us any trouble, so I won't need your help.”

“I will come with you.” Valjean told himself that he wanted to find out what would happen next in the case. He was invested in it, at this point. Besides, having seen Javert interrogate a treacherous agent the other night, he was a bit worried for the sake of this Fauntleroy character.

They found Vidocq, who was deep in conversation with a man in a suit of clothes about ten years out of fashion. After a short wait while the detective extracted himself, the three of them headed out. It was a short stroll from the prefecture to the Hôtel-Dieu.

Valjean found himself watching Javert closely as they walked through the arched doorways of the hospital. A pensive mood seemed to settle over him before they reached the door. Valjean found himself wanting to pick at it, but felt that now was not the time.

They waited inside for one of the pages to be free to attend them, and then asked to be shown to Pierre Fauntleroy.

The rather harried page escorted them to a dark, crowded room where several patients lay.

“Good day, M'sieur Fauntleroy,” said Vidocq to a man whose leg was in a cast. He was a gangly youth, covered in freckles and embarrassment at having his superiors find him here.

“Good day,” he said sheepishly, then clearly remembered something. “Pharaoh! But you kil- they found you dead!”

“Why does everyone insist on telling me that?” Javert complained. “You can see for yourself I'm alive, and I now own a piece of paper to prove it.”

“No offense meant,” said the lad Fauntleroy, while Javert made a kind of shrugging gesture with his hands. “I'll be out of here soon enough, you know.”

“No doubt, no doubt,” said Vidocq. “In the meantime, we need to talk with you in private about some matters of business. You missed all the excitement. Can you walk at all?”

“Not on my own, no.”

“We will give you a hand. Jack, take his left arm,” Javert said, gesturing to the man's injured side. As gently as possible, nearly carrying the lad aloft, they made their way to a small, disused storeroom. Rows of dusty bottles lined the walls, and the four men stood nearly shoulder to shoulder, but here they would not be overheard. Valjean hadn't thought that Fauntleroy's fellow sufferers seemed likely to be threats, or connected with the Patron-Minette, but he supposed that a suspicious temperament must be an essential tool of Javert's trade. He remembered the cold eyes which had dogged his heels in Montreuil-sur-Mer, and the policeman who couldn't help but be suspicious of an old man in a bad coat giving alms.

“Is Landot all right? I hope Babet didn't suspect anything when he had to leave me behind,” Fauntleroy said.

Javert growled. “Don't worry about him. He might have preferred Babet, but I've got him safely tucked away.”

“Surely not Landot!”

“It's like this,” began Javert, giving a quick rundown of the previous night's adventures. He added, “We need to know anything that you might know about alternative hiding spots and meeting places for the Patron-Minette, especially ones for fencing stolen goods or hiding money.”

“I have no idea where they might have taken the jewelry and money from that job. But I know that the bigwigs sometimes passed on their commands at the Vixen and Hen, at Rue de Saint Martin. That was the only place I ever saw Montparnasse and Babet, actually. Rowdy place. They used to recruit scoundrels there when they needed help with a job.”

“Yes, you mentioned that in the past, but we didn't want to give the ringmasters of our little circus a heads-up by cracking down on their underlings,” said Javert.

“Landot must have told you that we were operating in pairs?” asked Fauntleroy. “That made it safer for them, but harder to carry on the business unnoticed in public. I think more people were meeting in private homes. I'll write down for you the addresses I have been to, but I don't think any of them are places they are hiding the merchandise. The man Duguay has been doing a lot of the work disposing of stolen goods recently – he would be the first one I would suspect to be connected with this case. But I think Mardisoir, Proulx, or Glorieux could also be involved. Would you recognize them?”

“Perhaps,” Vidocq said. “I've had the pleasure of meeting Mardisoir and Glorieux, and I believe we have the descriptions of the others. Tell us everything you can, though.” Fauntleroy gave them rather thorough descriptions of his disreputable temporary associates. Vidocq nodded. His agent had confirmed and added to what he already knew of these men.

“Good work, my boy, you've been very helpful,” said Vidocq. “It's a shame about that leg, though.”

“I will be fine,” said the chagrined youth. “My parents don't live in Paris, but they sent word that they will be able to collect me by this evening and take me home. They said it will do me good to be out of the city while I recover.”

“Hmm, you see that you stay out of trouble there, my boy,” said Vidocq. “Don't fall back into bad habits, or bad company. Javert here isn't the understanding sort like I am.”

“Yes, messieurs. I told you, I learned my lesson.” Javert rolled his eyes slightly, earning him a rather heated glare from Valjean.

With that, they helped Fauntleroy back to his bed and said their goodbyes.

“What do you think?” asked Javert to Vidocq as they exited the hospital. “Word must have gotten around about our arrests last night. Parisian criminals have more ears than a hydra. If only we still had a reliable man on the inside, but Jeannot's cover was completely blown. I don't think we can do better than to tail the men he mentioned back to their places of business.”

“Does a hydra have any ears?” asked Vidocq.

“You know what I mean,” said Javert with exasperation.

“You know I don't call the shots anymore, Pharaoh.”

Javert snorted. “You know this is still your case.”

“It sounds like you know what I would do. Start tomorrow, then. Or tonight, for all I care. It's not like you will stay put when I tell you to.”

“They will be more likely to take action tomorrow, I think. In the meantime, I'll ask Mathieu to keep an eye out for our friends at the Vixen and Hen. Eugene, I think I will take your advice for once and turn in early. Who knows? Maybe we will have the address to search by the time I arrive for work tomorrow.”

“You taking my advice to rest? Suspicious turn of events,” said Vidocq, climbing into a cab which he had flagged down while they were talking. “What's next? Jean Valjean taking my advice?” He laughed at his own joke. “Goodnight, my doves.”

Javert turned back to Valjean, who was feeling rather out of place again by this point, and who rather suspected he was blushing again. “How about you? Would you like to ride home or walk?”

Valjean was feeling restless, from the stress of the day and from the want of his customary walk. It was well into the evening, but the long summer daylight had just begun to fade. The city had a fine glow about it, casting one side of the street into blue tones and burnishing the other in gold. “Let's walk.” Then as the two started off, he added, “Why did Vidocq come with us tonight? Surely you didn't need reinforcements. You already knew who had betrayed you.”

“It wasn't really necessary. It never was going to be easy for him to step down. He poured so much of himself into the Sûreté. Even with his own agency starting to take off, even with the factory, part of him will always want to be involved. And he knows all his agents better than I do. Likes them better, too,” he said with a bitter chuckle.

They walked on in a companionable silence at first, but something was eating at Valjean. “Javert? I saw your look when we approached the hospital. Are you all right?”

“My look?” There was a note of warning to his question.

“You seemed, I don't know, grim, introspective.”

“You sound like an overwrought novel from a  cabinet de lecture. I think of myself as a sensible man, and as such, I don't care for hospitals.”

“If you say so.”

After a moment, Javert sighed with resignation. “There's that bad habit of yours again. You know the answer already – you know I must have been thinking of Isaac. I can't separate that place from him.”

“Hm. You know, Cosette – my daughter -” Javert nodded impatiently at the aside “- apparently met her beau during our walks in the Jardin du Luxembourg. She told me much later, once the game was up and we were speaking freely, that their eyes communicated everything they needed to know. I always found the story a bit odd, but what do I know of youthful hearts? … Can I ask you how it is with men like you?”

In a rare turn as the man of mercy, Javert's eyebrows rose but he didn't respond to the “men like you” descriptor. “As it happens, it's quite easy to find a companion in that exact way, for the night at least, if you know where to look. Myself, though - I seem to trust to fate as a matchmaker.” Javert watched Valjean, who seemed to want him to go on, so he continued.

“It was at the end of an investigation – a pair of thieves had been making themselves quite at home in the neighborhood. I was watching the back exit of the café, from a vantage point where I had a good view across the street. Vidocq was lounging around the front. It was rather dull, but I began to have that sense that a fit was coming on. I didn't have enough warning, and I had never confided in the sergeant I was with about my condition. I'm told I fell, hit my head hard, and when I didn't wake up, Vidocq had me brought to the Hôtel-Dieu. Cost him the thieves, too. He wouldn't let me forget that part when he was filling in the blanks for me later. The hospital was quiet that evening, and you can guess who came out to see me when it was my turn to be seen.

“He recognized me, surprisingly, exclaiming that his helpful policeman was back, and calling it a shame that it was as a patient this time.”

“I came to eventually, while he was examining my head, and was startled to see him. I flinched away from his fingertips – I don't like being touched there, even though it doesn't hurt anymore.”

Valjean felt like he should file that fact away, and nodded.

“‘Do you recognize me?’ he said, and ‘do you know where you are?’ He and Gene were worried about new damage, and had been talking while I was unconscious. ‘Monsieur Edelstein. I remember you quite distinctly.’ ‘Excellent,’ said he. ‘M. Vidocq has been filling me in on your history. You are lucky to be alive. How was this wound initially treated?’ The hell if I know, and I told him as much. The army surgeons get overwhelmed after an engagement. ‘A depressed fracture like this, they should have considered trepanning the skull to relieve the pressure, if they had been any more than a lot of butchers. Perhaps there would have been less lasting effects. But there's nothing that can be done now, unfortunately. You seem coherent, so I will have to release you. Is there a wife who will keep an eye on you tonight?’ Of course I replied in the negative, and Gene couldn't suppress a smirk, damn the man. ‘No wife? That too is a shame.’ He paused a minute, glanced at his watch, and added quietly, ‘I'll be finished with my shift soon. Tell me your address and I will come by and make sure all is well.’

“Gene and I both protested that there was no need, but he assured us that although he couldn't justify hospitalizing me, head wounds are serious, and besides, he was also a bachelor and wouldn't be missed. He was never in the habit of hearing no from patients, and soon had my address. I'm sure you can imagine the rest.” Valjean could not, but he would not say so. “He made his excuses to keep coming by, and I never tried to stop him. I knew he didn't do that with the rest of his patients. I rather felt we were kindred souls, and soon he dropped all pretense of checking in on my health.”

“That's quite a story,” said Valjean with a smile. Javert had been drifting away, but Valjean's words were bringing Javert back to the here and now.

“Well. If you liked that one, you should hear the one about the convict,” Javert teased, reaching for Valjean's arm and giving it a brief squeeze.

Valjean was becoming hyper aware as they walked that a crossroads was coming; one where he would have to decide whether to return to his home at Rue de l'Homme Armé or to follow Javert home. The third option, asking if Javert would follow him to his apartment, had not even occurred to Valjean. Perhaps on some level he felt it would be a step back to the barricade, when he had offered his address to Javert for an entirely different purpose.

Javert halted, clearly aware of their crossroads as well. “I -”

“Thank you for what you did for me today, Javert. I... have enjoyed your company. My daughter is waiting for me, of course.” He had not known what he would say until the moment he said it.

“Of course.” Nothing betrayed any disappointment Javert may have felt, except perhaps some flatness in his tone. They parted on the street with no particular gestures of affection. Valjean could hear Javert's boots retreating down the quiet street.

As he walked back to his apartment, Valjean silently thought that it had been only around twenty-four hours since he had been reacquainted with the not-dead inspector. It really did seem like longer. He contemplated as he walked that his life was prone to these great upheavals that simply swept him along. He, Jean, the tree pruner, rarely meant to make any great changes. Left to his own devices, perhaps he would never have left the village of his youth. He just got caught up in the turmoil and fought to survive. His mind returned to other times in his life when he had experienced the same feeling, and before long he was home, having hardly noticed the walk.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Cosette, my dear.” She ran up to see Valjean as he entered the apartment, and he could almost forget that her eagerness was to hear about Marius.  It seemed to him like it was a long time since he had seen her.  When he had last left the house, he thought there was a good chance that he was being summoned for his own arrest, and he feared he might never see her again.  Now he was flooded with such relief that he felt he could weep, but he could tell her nothing of this.

“Papa!” she said with delight. “How are you? What news do you have for me?”

“I'm sorry, I'm afraid that I have not been to see Monsieur Marius today. I have been attending to other business.”

“I'm very much disappointed in you, father,” Cosette said with very little real harshness. Valjean smiled. For weeks, her voice and face had been all pain. Now her natural joy was beginning to come back to her, day by day. Valjean knew that the only thing he could bear less than losing Cosette to marriage was seeing that joy extinguished for good. “Wherever have you been? You must go to see him now, and tell me how he does.”

“Surely it is too late for that. He must get his sleep if he is to recover, and the last thing he needs is a strange old gentleman hanging around during the evening.”

Cosette smiled slightly in defeat. “You  are  a strange old gentleman, to disappear and never tell me where you are going, or when you will return. Just imagine, the note you left me! You could have been going to America, as vague as you were.”

“I'm sorry, but you know how I am occupied with business at times. In fact, I was able to return faster than I expected, so here I am. Would you like to continue our reading tonight?” The two of them would sometimes spend an evening taking turns reading a novel aloud to one another, and they were currently working their way through Stendhal's  Le Rouge et le Noir.

“Yes! I will read to you. I confess that I read ahead of our place while you were gone.” There was a slight challenge in her voice.

“Then you will be even better able to do the voices,” said Valjean. He smiled, wanting to put behind them the slight tension underlying his return. They moved to the sofa in the small room which served as both a dining room and parlor, and the rest of the evening was indistinguishable from many others.

***

After Cosette had retired for the night, Jean Valjean made his way to his bedroom, the details of what they had read having already slipped from his mind. He knew that he had omitted the truth from what he told Cosette. He had done so many times; continuously, in fact. But something about this time felt different. In the past, the secrets he kept were dark ones, capable of destroying the home and family he had created. Now, for all that he still felt Javert was pursuing him, he did not feel fear. He could not say that his silence tonight was to protect Cosette. What would have stopped him from telling a truth, part of the truth – that he had run into an old acquaintance unexpectedly, and they had spent hours talking about old times? Somehow this partial truth felt like more of an omission than did his silence. He wondered, perhaps absurdly, if this is how Cosette had felt when concealing her meetings with Marius (for now that there was no point in concealment, she had opened her heart to her father and told him everything).

Cosette...not only was there this new secret which he felt he was hiding from her, but all the old ones swam to the surface, needing to be pushed firmly back under again. Javert knew him and addressed him by a name which Cosette had never heard spoken. Javert knew everything about Jean Valjean that he had taken care to conceal from the girl who called him Papa. He must ensure Javert's silence before allowing him around his daughter. He must ensure that Javert knew and agreed to play the role of an old friend of M. Fauchelevent, not parole officer, and … he knew not what, to felon Jean Valjean.

Valjean felt utterly unable to sleep. His mind was racing. He knew that he had been granted a great relief that day, now that he could live without fear of arrest for his old crimes, but he felt unable to be calm. He was again aware of being at a crossroads in his life, one in which he had to make a decision. The path he had been taking continued onwards, and he could easily see it. He could continue his quiet life with Cosette, but now there would be no need to fear discovery. This was the life he had dreamed of, all those years in the convent, except that now he was no longer confined within walls.

On the other path stood Javert. Valjean stood up and began to pace across the small room.

This was the path he would have fled from until so recently. Now he felt drawn towards the man, and it was causing a maelstrom within Valjean. Now that he had a bit of space from the inspector, he had looked at his feelings and was prepared to label them as desire. This was a novelty for Jean Valjean, and he was not sure how to proceed. He had told himself over the years that he stayed apart from others for purely practical reasons. He had not wanted to implicate anyone else while on the run from the law. But he had known, if only in the privacy of his own mind, that he was not affected by the beauty of women in the way other men seemed to be. It was rare for him to take notice of a beautiful woman, and upon seeing her, Valjean felt no hunger to touch or possess. He had rather flattered himself into thinking that this was Christian virtue. But in the last twenty four hours, he found himself fiercely possessive of his former enemy.

And yet, he wondered. Javert had long had an effect on him. In Montreuil-sur-Mer, Madeleine had felt his heart speed up when he noticed Javert's persistent gaze on him. There was anxiety, fear; but perhaps there had always been this new thing, as well. Perhaps it wasn't new, after all. The thought further disconcerted him.

And of course, there was no forgetting that Javert was a man. Was it even right to feel this way towards him? An avid reader, Valjean was well aware of what the Bible said about men who lay with one another, but he had always preferred the words of Jesus. Surely, Valjean thought, if his God was able to forgive him his other crimes, He would not balk at forgiving him for this. He felt instinctively that Javert was a good man, and that surely giving him some pleasure could not be so great a crime. He could not be sure, though. Valjean thought of the good bishop Myriel, and his gaze stole to the candlesticks on his mantle. He did not consider himself a serious scholar of the Bible, but rather considered this humble, generous bishop as his model for Christian charity and comportment. His acquaintance with the man was so brief, but it seemed unlikely that the bishop who had found brotherly love in his heart for a rough-spoken, treacherous ex-convict could turn his heart against any love that convict was able to find after turning his life around.

If he was wrong, though, and there was no forgiveness to be had for this transgression, he was rather relieved that Javert had already fallen long ago. He would not be responsible for the stain on the other man's soul.

Perhaps the morally correct thing to do would be to remain friends with Javert, but not deepen their connection further. Could this be what Javert wanted, after all? The man had not yet pushed for more. Would this sin he felt they were approaching only sully the friendship they could otherwise have? Perhaps, and here even Valjean realized that his mind was running on ahead of him, perhaps they could live contentedly as brothers, as he had with old Fauchelevent. Valjean had known so little of friendship over the years. But he couldn't forget the kiss they had shared, and the pleasant warmth of Javert relaxed in his arms the other night.

Practical points reared their heads, as well. He wondered what, exactly, Javert wanted. Years in prison had left Valjean with no uncertainty about how two men might come together in lust, although it had held no interest to him at the time. He thought of the formidable inspector, tall, all hard angles and deep baritone, and a manner that nearly always caused Valjean to give way before him. A man like that would not play the woman. Could Valjean? He didn’t know; he couldn’t imagine what it would be like. Would Javert be gentle or rough?

He tore the thought away, turning once more on his heels. There was also the matter of his reputation. For himself, he cared little for his reputation. No further shame that he could bring on himself was greater than that of the bagne, which he felt clinging to him in the brand on his shoulder and in his unconscious way of dragging his left leg. He cared nothing for society, and held himself aloof from it. But so far he had successfully shielded Cosette from the shame of his past. He was well aware of her suitor's family's station in life, and of the unyielding views of the boy's grandfather. Her reputation must be considered as well. Would they welcome the daughter of a sodomite into their home? (He winced as he heard himself apply the term in his head.) Already he was playing the role of a refined gentleman during his visits to check on Marius; he tried to eclipse his past with fine clothes, and so how could he then invite further disgrace on Cosette? He had already determined not to be the cause of her unhappiness.

He stumbled a little at his next thought, steadying his hand on a bedpost. What would Cosette herself think if she knew? She who had so successfully deceived him about her feelings for Marius – could she be deceived as easily? Somehow the old man doubted it. Her instincts had always run truer than his, even when she was a little girl. Could he trade Cosette's love for a possibility of happiness with Javert? It was unthinkable. But was this a price that his daughter would ask? It seemed unlikely that the sweet, lively girl would turn her back on him. She had been a devoted daughter, but she knew little of the world, and he did not know how she would react to such a thing.

His mind continued to tread the same paths, recircling, even as his feet continued to take him back and forth across the room. He had enough self-awareness left in the moment to be grateful that the parlor separated him from Cosette, and he was unlikely to awaken her.

It should be emphasized that Valjean's pain this evening was nowhere near what it had been the night before he went to Arras, or the night before retrieving Marius from the barricade. Underlying his anxiety was an unfamiliar sense of peace. As he walked, he began to feel as though he would not be lost regardless of how he proceeded. The mental circles in which he tread began to take the shape of a round labyrinth, decreasing in size, meditative, drawing him to the center. And in the center stood Javert.

***

The following morning, Valjean awoke early despite his lack of sleep. He sat down at the table in the kitchen with pen, ink, and paper. Not accustomed to correspondence, he wrote a short, formal letter after several attempts.

My dear friend Javert,

I expect that you are busy today, as we had the opportunity to discuss yesterday. But as your time allows, I hope you will have the chance to visit, and perhaps to tell me how the affair ended. I await your answer or your visit.

Yours sincerely,

Jean Valjean

He didn't want to give too much away in the unlikely case that the letter was intercepted. He realized that he had rather the instinct for secrecy built into his bones after his escape attempts from prison, and life on the run, which might serve him well on the other side of the law too. After he finished writing, he copied it out again in a fair hand. The unfamiliar signature made him smile wryly – he had been illiterate when last he went by that name. But life was remarkable at times, he reflected. His mood was recovering from the pain of last night, and the new day felt promising and full of light.

He had awoken before Toussaint, and helped himself to some bread before getting fully dressed in the fine black suit that he wore when going to call on Marius. Today he would return to his role as the well-dressed messenger: going to the boy's house to deliver the overflowing basket of lint that Cosette had prepared, and coming back to deliver word on how he was doing. Surely the boy's family could afford anything in the way of medical care, but this seemed important to Cosette.

For once, though, he had a personal matter of his own to take care of, and he would drop off the letter on his way. He was accustomed to walking to the Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire and he could take a long way around to get there which passed by Javert's apartment.

***

Valjean's trip was uneventful. He left his letter in the care of Javert's portress. He found Marius in as good of a condition as could be expected. He remembered to pass on to the boy's grandfather the advice that Javert had given him, about the best way to proceed with treatment for the patient. He stumbled a bit when asked about this sudden opinion on the best way of treating the grandson's injuries, but attributed the ideas to a clever friend who took an interest in medicine.

After leaving the Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire, he was filled with a sense of possibility that had been missing in his life. He wandered into a street that was more crowded and mercantile than the ones in which he normally allowed himself to walk, and noticed a shop displaying bolts of fabric. He had heard a great deal from Cosette and Toussaint about what was necessary for the lint-making project dear to her heart, and he purchased a length of simple white linen.

When Valjean returned home, he was surprised to see a lanky boy of perhaps fifteen lounging against the boundary-post of the building.

“Monsieur Valjean?” asked the boy.

“That's me.”

“I have a message from the prefecture,” said the lad, handing over a sealed envelope. He waited while Valjean opened it, until the older man remembered he was there, and fished through his pockets for a coin.

“Thank you,” he said, handing the coin to the boy. He wasn't actually sure if the lad was in police employ, or if it would be proper to tip him if he were, but there were no complaints from the boy. He tipped his hat and was off.

Not bothering to wait for the privacy of his rooms, Valjean opened the envelope, heart racing.

Jack – the Vixen and Hen, at Rue de Saint Martin, 3pm. Find me. -J

He wasn't sure what he had been expecting, but this was not it. He decided he would go, although he must move quickly to make the stated rendezvous.

He found Cosette in the parlor, carefully scraping her knife over a bedraggled piece of cloth secured in her large embroidery hoop.

“Good day, my dear. Here, I believe you will be wanting this.” Valjean held out the bundle of linen and awaited her response anxiously – perhaps he had been wrong about the type of fabric necessary after all. He had asked for it by name but was not very clear on what linen was.

“Your timing is perfect, Papa. I'm nearly out,” she said, beaming and carefully looking over the fabric. “It's lovely.”

He updated Cosette on Marius' progress. There was little to report, but she needed to go over every detail. It clearly pained her to not be able to be by the boy's bedside herself.  

“Listen, Cosette, I need to meet up with an old … acquaintance of mine tonight. I'm not sure when I will be home.”

“What! Papa, this is most unusual.”

“Nevertheless.”

“My dear papa, you are the most unsociable, odd man. Who is this that you are meeting? Is this one of your business associates?”

“Cosette.”

“I should apologize? I cannot. This is really your doing. If we didn't live in such isolation, I wouldn't be the slightest bit interested.”

“Cosette, there are things you know I cannot share. But yes, I suppose I have been called for business of a sort.” Despite being well in practice, Valjean's heart ached when hiding things from his daughter. He took his leave with a heavy heart.

I hope this goes without saying, but just a reminder that the views of the characters in this story do not always represent the views of their author. <3


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean took a cab to the Vixen and Hen, which turned out to be a rather large but dingy public house. It was relatively empty at this time in the afternoon, which further emphasized the insufficient housekeeping. Small tables and mismatched chairs were scattered across the floor. A set of amateurish pastoral scenes set on the flaking walls did little to combat the pervading air of melancholy. Perhaps the establishment would hit its stride later in the evening. Perhaps it had already hit its stride, and fallen back again, decades ago. It was hard to be sure at first glance.

The few patrons present made it easy for Valjean to find the one he was looking for, and he smiled. Javert wore his hair in a long black queue with gray at the temples, a wig that until recently Valjean had thought was his own hair. He remembered the young guard at Toulon, and suspected that this was about how Javert's hair would look grown out.

Javert acknowledged his presence with a tilt of his head, and gestured to the chair across from his.

“Hey!” called a voice to Valjean's right. When he glanced over, he was surprised to see that he recognized the man. It was Handler, the Sûreté agent with whom he had briefly shared a table and conversation two nights ago, and he was currently sitting alone. Handler waved down Valjean, who headed over to speak with him.

“Good day, monsieur.”

“Hey, good day! How are you?”

“I'm well, thank you. I'm afraid that I'm already engaged, though,” said Valjean, nodding towards Javert in what he hoped was an unobtrusive gesture. He was unconsciously slipping into his Monsieur Madeleine persona.

“Oh, you are with Pharoah? You are new, aren't you? He's teaching you the ropes?”

“Something like that,” he agreed. He honestly didn't know what he was doing there.

“Well, I'll let you get on with it,” Handler said with a little wink, and then studiously returned to his drink.

When Valjean arrived at his table, Javert rolled his eyes slightly. “I know, Handler's not the sharpest tool in the shed. Not discrete, either. But he's loyal and I think we can trust him. I'm not sure about many of the others, so I called on him for tonight.”

“I didn't say anything. I like him,” replied Valjean. Javert didn't reply at first, instead taking a long, head to toe, appraising look at him. He stood up abruptly and took Valjean by the elbow.

“Come with me,” Javert growled quietly.

“Javert! What -”

“Hush,” he said, still pulling Valjean along by the elbow, through an extremely dim corridor with a low ceiling. “Don't say my name.”

Valjean went quietly, though he was startled. What was Javert planning to do?

They reached the kitchen, empty and quiet at this hour. A stack of messy dishes and the lingering aromas were all that told of a busier time earlier in the day, and a small window high on the wall let in a bit of light.

Javert released him into the empty room, and finally spoke aloud. “What were you thinking, coming here dressed like this? Did I have to specify a dress code for the evening? Why you would consider wearing that ….Valjean, you never dress well. The only time I've ever seen you dress like this is when you deigned to attend a ball in Montreuil.”

Realization struck. “My clothes are too conspicuous?”

“Of course they are.”

“Perhaps people would assume that I stole them.”

“Valjean, those are clearly tailor-made for you. It's not that I don't appreciate it, but it will not serve at all. We don't have another set of clothes for you, so you will have to either go home or let me make do.”

“Certainly, do as you see fit. I'm sorry – I came straight from visiting the boy, Marius, today. You saw his grandfather's house. I can't disgrace Cosette in front of them.”

“Hmph.” Javert glanced over Valjean's new black suit again, and reached out to untie his cravat. “We will have you looking like you belong in this warren of thieves.”

Valjean's heart sped up and he swallowed nervously as Javert worked at his throat, but he didn't move to help or stop him. Pulling the fabric free, Javert massaged the cravat until the formerly well-starched fabric was softened, and batted at it as if to test it.

“Trade for the evening? The blue would tone you down a bit.” Javert wore a stock of cheap blue velvet, which Valjean assumed was leather on the inside.

Valjean nodded, and after Javert removed it, allowed him to help buckle the stock in place, which sure enough, had leather's stiffness underneath. It smelled of the tobacco that Javert smoked. Javert tied the disheveled white cravat in a casual knot around his own neck.

“Give me your coat,” Javert continued, now looking around the dirty kitchen. He looked into an excessively dusty pantry, and, giving a small shudder, rubbed the coat hard into the dust, focusing on the elbows and shoulders. He then beat the worst of the dust out, leaving shadowy stains that appeared to age the coat.

Javert handed the coat back to Valjean. “Loosen the collar on your shirt. Leave your coat unbuttoned. It will be less obvious how well it fits you. Scuff your shoes.”

Valjean followed his instructions without complaint. When he had done so, Javert surveyed him again. “Not bad. I think you will do with the lighting in there as poor as it is. I'm sure I look foolish in your white cravat, but it can't be helped.”

“You don't look foolish.”

“Valjean, you know I've seen how you dress, right? I will not accept your reassurances.”

He continued, “While we are back here, I may as well go over the essentials with you. I don't expect any of our friends to arrive so early, but we may as well be in place so as to not frighten them off with our approach. There are three agents here, other than ourselves,” Javert explained. “We are looking for the man Duguay. Medium height, round face, stocky build, light brown straight hair, brown eyes, balding at the top, an alumni of the galleys and has the limp. The most important thing tonight is to not frighten him off.”

“I understand.”

“He may not even be coming, there's no way of knowing. I haven't gotten any more information on this case than we had when we visited Fauntleroy last evening. It would be easier to confide in the waitresses, but in a place like this they are unlikely to be sympathetic to the  raille . I'll pay our bill as we go, and we will be ready to leave at a moment's notice, on my signal. Not before that, you hear me?”

“What is my role in all of this?”

“Tonight promises to be dull work. Besides, sitting with a friend gives me a more plausible reason to be idling away hours in a place like this.”

Valjean smiled. “I'm here as your companion?”

Javert looked chagrined. “Well, there's still a chance of some excitement this evening, if Duguay is cleverer than I give him credit for, and desperate. Doesn't hurt to have a tough old con as a companion.”

They returned to the front room, and sat in a silence that stretched on a bit too long, until a waitress appeared and they ordered a bottle of wine.

“Be sure to pace yourself, we may be here awhile,” said Javert.

Valjean refrained from commenting, but it was clear to him which of them was more inclined to heavy drink. But he took a sip with Javert once they had poured it. Valjean was no judge of wine but he thought it was rather bad.

“How is that wounded boy of ours doing?” asked Javert after another lengthy silence.

“About the same, I'm afraid. I passed on what you said to his grandfather. We will see if he improves.”

“You visit him often?”

“Every day. Cosette demands news of him. Between you and I, if that young man doesn't ask her to marry him when he recovers, he will wish I had left him in the Rue de la Chanvrerie.”

“You think he will not?”

Valjean sighed. “I think he will... I hate the idea of him toying with my Cosette so much I can hardly countenance the thought, and yet. I will not have Cosette share in any of her mother's fate.” Pain passed over his face as he slowly completed the thought. “Cosette trusts him, but I've seen so much more of the world than her. She barely remembers those villains who served as her foster parents at that inn, the ones who were bleeding Fantine dry. Growing up among the good sisters, how could she possibly know what men are capable of?”

“Growing up among who, you said?”

“Cosette was educated in a convent. I wouldn't have neglected her education,” he added by way of explanation.

Javert shifted forward, clearly intrigued, a wolfhound on the scent again. “How? How did you manage to get her into a convent school? A convict on the run?”

“It's simple – we lived there, at the convent in Petit-Picpus. It was the simplest thing for her to attend the school.”

“Wait a moment. Now you are telling me that you, yourself, Jean Valjean, lived in a convent?!” Javert exclaimed, shocked.

“I have you to thank for it, actually,” Valjean said with a gentle smile, knowing he was treading on dangerous territory between them. “Remember that night you were chasing me and Cosette? How you had us in an alley? Well, you know from Toulon that I am perfectly capable of scaling a wall.”

“Hm, yes, but the child?”

“Necessity makes a man inventive. I lifted her up with a rope from a street light.” Javert groaned while Valjean continued to speak. “It just so happened that the convent was on the other side of the wall.”

Javert collapsed, face falling into both hands. “I'm an idiot. But it's not as if the nuns would have welcomed me in if I had suspected. 'Oh sure, come on in, Monsieur Policeman, have a look around wherever you want. Search the inner sanctum for your man.' But this explains nothing. How did you get them to welcome you?”

“The Lord provides. Do you remember how Père Fauchelevent left for Paris after he was wounded under his cart?” Javert nodded curtly. “I had gotten him a job at the very same Petit-Picpus convent as a gardener; a quiet job for life. When I arrived, with you on my heels, he was eager to repay the debt he imagined he owed me. I won't bore you with the arrangements we made, but we led the prioress to believe that Cosette and I were his kin, and arranged that I would help him care for the grounds in exchange for a place for her in the school.”

Having apparently rendered Javert speechless for once, he continued happily. “That was one of the greatest joys of my life. It was what I had been trained for, you know. I pruned and cared for half-wild trees until they were restored to health. They began to bear fruit again, for the first time in years, and my labor fed Cosette and the other little girls at the convent. This is joy, Ja- my friend. I'm not a man much given to metaphor, but to watch those neglected trees slowly come back to health and life over the years, while my poor Cosette played beneath them and blossomed herself...”

“Lovely. But I simply cannot get past the fact that you openly lived in the strictest convent in Paris. You.”

“I might have still been living there. The sisters and I had planned for Cosette to take the vows when she reached the right age. But in the end, I couldn't do it. I couldn't give Cosette a life sentence, to never taste her freedom, even though it would have meant safety for both of us.”

“Magnanimous of you. I can't imagine that you were truly happy yourself, there,” said Javert with narrowed eyes.

“I was, though. I never knew hunger or feared the law, and I had my Cosette. I had an honest job and even a friend in old Fauchelevent. I was confined within the walls, to be sure, but it was no prison. It was a sanctuary. You yourself said that I was a peasant at heart.”

“I didn't realize how right I was. I do not think I could settle into such a life.”

“No? Remember that time you told me you could?” Valjean teased.

Javert sighed sadly. “I still don't know why you spared me then. It's not like I would have died, Valjean. It would not have even counted as vengeance.”

“I have already told you – you are a good man, you didn't deserve that treatment. Besides, I would pity the orchard that fell into your hands,” said Valjean with a smile.

“How hard could it possibly be?”

“There's an intuition to working with plants -”

“Are you saying you don't think I have intuition?”

“No, but …” Valjean was spared from explaining when Javert tapped his foot quietly under the table. He looked at Javert quizzically.

“Did you see the men who just left a minute ago? It was one of my agents, following a man who looked like our M. Proulx.” Javert spoke as quietly as possible without taking on the tones of whispering. He was clearly becoming restless.

“I didn't notice. But I'm keeping an eye out for our bald man.”

“Good, see that you do.” Javert was beginning to drum his fingers on the table, one after the other. Valjean refilled his glass of wine, hoping to calm the man a bit, and pushed it over. Javert took the glass with a grateful nod, and began to drum his fingers on the glass. Valjean sighed and scanned the room again. It was becoming more crowded.

“May I ask you a question?”

“Shoot.” Javert gestured magnanimously.

“I was just thinking back to the other night. Can you tell beforehand that you are going to have...you know...one of your fits?” Valjean wasn't sure if he was approaching a topic that was off-limits, but he supposed that it was better to know, if he was to continue to spend time around the man.

As he had feared, Javert looked annoyed. “Not always. I do have a sense sometimes when it is about to happen. But it’s precious little warning.  Lack of sleep makes things worse, but what can I do about that? I'm not in a very leisurely profession.” Studying Valjean's look, he added, “Now don't you start worrying about me. I'm perfectly good at keeping myself in one piece, and I don't need any help.”

“Of course.” He couldn't admit how great his impulse to help was, so he scanned the room again, watching carefully for a man of Duguay's description. No one stood out. By this time, musicians were beginning to set up in an unused corner of the room. Several clarinets and a trumpet made an appearance as their owners began to warm up.

Valjean winced slightly. “I prefer your guitar.”

Javert grinned. “You haven't heard my guitar. It's a sweeter instrument than that old one I borrowed the other night.”

“Where did you learn how to play it?”

Javert hesitated. “My mother...she would show me a few chords when she was in a good mood, and when she wasn't preoccupied with her gentleman callers or locked up. It was the only time we really enjoyed each other's company.” Valjean thought he detected a hint of wistfulness behind Javert's nonchalance. “Then when I first signed on as a guard, there was an older  argousin who taught me more in what off hours we had. It passed the time.”

“Maybe you will play for me someday. I never had the chance to learn an instrument, but I rather like music. Cosette plays the piano like an angel, and sings.”

“No doubt.”

Valjean then felt Javert's boot press against his under the table, harder this time. He waited a moment, until Javert was occupied pouring another glass of wine, and tutting when the bottle emptied, to scan the room. He let his eyes rest on the musicians as an attempt at discretion, but he had seen what Javert had. About twenty feet away, a stocky, balding man was deep in discussion with a taller man. Valjean thought he saw something pass between the two men's hands, but he couldn't tell what it was.

“He's been in the meadow*,” Javert observed softly. “Follow my lead, remember?” Valjean nodded.

The waitress, whose duties were rapidly picking up, circled by with another bottle of wine in hand. “Another, messieurs?”

“Why not? Here, keep the change,” Javert pressed a coin into her hand. If she was puzzled by this eagerness to pay, she kept it to herself. Likely, the patrons of this establishment did not like being asked too many questions. Many were likely thieves, who came quickly into money when they had any at all, and spent it equally quickly among their comrades.

“We will see how well you can act tonight,” muttered Javert. Whatever he meant by that, Valjean figured it probably didn't bode well for him. Javert poured another glass of wine for each of them. Although Valjean accepted his, he did not wish to drink it, now that the critical moment was clearly approaching. It seemed that Javert suffered from no such reservations.

Their quarry had moved on, and was now talking with a buxom young woman in an orange dress. She was rather plain, but had evidently put effort into curling her blonde hair, and her laughter was infectious.

“Like what you see over there?” asked Javert with feigned nonchalance.

“Stop it.” Valjean had never been in the habit of staring at beautiful women, and was unsure why Javert would be making the insinuation. He felt that he was making progress, but still did not understand the man.

Duguay bid the young woman adieu, and sauntered out of the tavern. Javert stood up quickly, and followed rapidly to the door, with Valjean close behind. With Duguay out of sight there was nothing to lose by directness, and everything to lose by hesitation.

“Stick close by me. We are two friends heading home together, nothing else, understand?” Javert said warningly, while looking up and down the street. “Perhaps we've had a bit too much to drink.”

“I'll do my best.”

Duguay was well down the street as they headed off towards him. The long summer day still offered plenty of light to see him. Valjean's nerves were already on edge – this was bringing back too many bad memories. Javert seemed to be in a cheerful mood, however, and he chatted away to pass the time as they followed their man down the street which was lively with the evening crowd. Laborers returned to their lodgings, families went to public houses for dinner, ladies of the town took up their preferred stations, and Duguay, Javert, and Valjean wove through all of them unnoticed.

As they turned into a side street, however, Javert became silent. They nearly lost Duguay as he made several more turns, but luckily he did not seem to be trying to evade them. Valjean knew that Javert was good at this from personal experience, but found himself nervously hoping that their prey would make his escape. His heart raced, and it was as if he felt the fear on behalf of the man who was unaware of their presence.

They rounded the corner and caught sight of him just as he was unlocking the door to a large, ramshackle house. Javert made a small gesture with his left hand to continue to walk, and they passed the door, to Valjean's surprise. Javert sped up, leaving Valjean struggling to keep up with the other man's long legs, and made three right turns in quick succession.

Reaching once more the corner of the block that Duguay had entered, they came to a halt. “Now we wait,” Javert said, fishing around in his pockets for a cigarette and match. He smoked with a deep satisfaction that matched Valjean's annoyance: he had never cared for the smell.

“May I ask what we are waiting for?”

“We want to see if he comes back out that door. Is this where he lives? Is this just where he sells stolen goods? Is it neither, and we need to follow him to the correct location?”

“Are you going to arrest him?”

“For what? I have no evidence that a crime has even taken place at this point. No, we are just gathering information tonight.” He stretched leisurely.

Their wait was destined to be a long one. The house was on a small, quiet street, and there was very little traffic passing by. The early evening became late evening, and while they kept an eye on the door, they quietly watched the vivid colors of sunset over Paris. Eventually deep purples faded to deeper blue. Several times, Valjean thought that he caught Javert's appraising eyes on him. He took a step closer – all that he was prepared to say for the moment.

Eventually Javert spoke up.  “About your pardon.”  Valjean looked up abruptly into the taller man’s eyes.  “I’ve written to my lawyer friend Bernard this morning, and made us an appointment to meet him in his office next Thursday at two.  I trust you can make it.  I’ve told him nearly all the relevant details of your life, and he’s agreed to take on your case as a favor to me.  Just remember, you are not to say anything about your involvement in that June uprising.  If that were to come out, your chances would be sunk.  As I told you, I didn’t mention your name to Gisquet, so no one alive but you and I knows that you were there at all.  Well, other than Cosette’s young man.  How is his memory of the day, by the way?”  

They stood close together, the evening was becoming dark, the street was quiet, and they spoke softly.  Valjean felt like he could talk freely.  “I don’t believe he remembers anything of importance.  In all my visits to him, he’s never brought up the subject or mentioned seeing me there.”

“Hmm, perhaps it’s better for him that way.  Some memories are better forgotten.”

In the pause, Valjean considered.  He had always thought of Javert as a forthright, plainspoken man, and he thought he understood that it would be no easy matter for him to conceal the truth.  While in this instance he certainly did not want Javert to speak up, perhaps he could reduce any discomfort the inspector felt on the matter.

“Javert, about that day at the barricade.  I want you to understand something.”

Javert stood with his arms crossed, silent, but dragged his gaze away from the house Duguay had entered, to rest on Valjean.

“I was only there for the boy.  You must believe that I’m not a violent man.  I don’t want you to think of me as a murderer,” Javert opened his mouth as if to speak, but Valjean cut him off.  “No, wait, please let me finish.  I wasn’t there to fight. I didn’t harm a single national guardsman while I was there.  It was a horrible scene - you understand, you were there.  I fired a few warning shots at some spies between the main bouts - after all, I had a rifle, and if I hadn’t, another man might have shot to kill.  I helped those students reinforce their barricade, but nothing more.  During the worst of the fighting, I only tended to the wounded.  I wanted no part in that whole affair.  And once Marius was down, I left with him.”

“That doesn’t surprise me,” said Javert at last.  “Your sense of mercy is … chaotic but thorough.  You proved that to me that day.  I think you must understand that if I thought otherwise, we would not be standing here now.”

“I understand.”  He paused again. “And Javert?”

“Yes?”  He was looking at the house again.

“About that young man.  I don’t pretend to know him well, for all the time I’ve spent with him.  But I think that he had reasons of his own for being there.  A letter that he had sent Cosette - fell into my hands.  I believe he was on the barricade seeking … his own death.”

Javert smiled a bleak smile, with no real humor in it.  “When an opportunity presents itself…  But come, Valjean, surely he knew that Cosette was alive and well.”

“He thought that I was taking Cosette to England.”

“And why would he think that?” Valjean heard the edge in Javert’s voice loud and clear.

Valjean looked sheepish.  “Well, I did intend to leave France at the time.  Between you and that gang of ruffians on my trail…”

“And yet you surrendered easily enough when you  found  me.”

“Don’t you see?”  Pain tugged at the corners of Valjean’s mouth.  “In rescuing Marius, and restoring him to Cosette, it became me who had nothing to live for.”

Javert’s face dropped, his hands rubbing his face where his whiskers had recently been.   “I see.  I see that we were both courting our destruction that night.”  He fell silent, brooding while he continued to watch the house.  Nothing was happening that might interrupt his reverie, and Valjean began to regret bringing it up.

Eventually, after hours with no sign of their quarry, Javert evidently decided that they had seen enough. “He lives here, then. Either he is innocent, in this one particular at least, or he shares the house with a receiver of stolen goods. We will do nothing tonight, and I will wait until tomorrow to get a report from the other agents. It wouldn't do to scare off the real prize by chasing after the wrong bird.”

Valjean felt deeply and illogically relieved – he had agreed to be involved, after all. He stepped closer once again with a sigh, resting against Javert.  The man’s warmth was comforting in the cool evening air, after the hours of inactivity.

“Hey now, what's this about?” said Javert, who pulled him into an embrace without waiting for an answer. Javert ran deeply tan fingers through white, curly hair, and Valjean shivered with pleasure at the sensation. Then he was gently pushed away. “Come along, you are going to call attention to us.”

They walked back the way they had come, towards the main street, as Javert continued, “I'll call a ride for us to get home. What are you doing tomorrow? I will need backup when I come back here.”

Now that Duguay was out of sight, Valjean's impulse to protect Javert was far greater than his wish for the suspect's escape. He knew as well as Javert did that there would be plenty of backup in the form of gendarmes and others, but he nonetheless felt the need to personally protect him. “I will be there.”

When they flagged down a passing fiacre, Javert gave the driver two addresses. The hesitation that had been there between the two, the sense of holding back, grew as Javert gestured Valjean into the cab. The driver clucked to the sturdy horse, and snapped a whip casually, and off they went into the evening. In the dark interior, Javert reached for Valjean's hair again, first running his fingers through it again slowly, then tightening his grip. Valjean's heart raced as Javert's thin lips brushed his. He opened his mouth slightly, and gasped as Javert sucked at his lower lip. Javert kissed him again, still slow and gentle, although heat was building between them and passed from mouth to mouth. Javert's tongue sought entrance and Valjean yielded to the sensation of a tongue eagerly exploring him. His budding hunger for Javert, for he could no longer call what he was feeling anything else, grew with every kiss.

They pulled apart as they felt the vehicle lurch to a halt. “Your stop,” said Javert, reluctantly, dropping his hand from the back of Valjean's neck. Valjean wasn't sure if he was relieved or disappointed – dazed with pleasure and slightly afraid of what Javert would do next. Mere days ago, Valjean wouldn't have guessed that he could respond to a man's kiss this way, but neither could he begin to picture a woman in Javert's place.  He had simply never felt this way before.

“Javert? I wrote you a letter this morning, I doubt you got it. Just ignore it, all right?”

“Fine.” Javert was a bit breathless too. “Come by the station house on Rue Sainte-Anne tomorrow at around noon, will you?”

“Yes.” Surely there was more to say, but Valjean wasn't sure what.

The driver called out impatiently, “Rue de l'Homme Armé.”

They quickly parted, and Valjean walked alone down the narrow street that he had once chosen to better evade Javert.

*Meadow - slang for the bagne.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Exhaustion from the previous two nights was building up for Valjean, and he found he slept easily and long.  He was startled to wake up to the sun already bright.  It would now be a stretch to visit Marius before his appointment with Javert.  What was worse, Javert had ruined his best suit of clothes. Cosette had been shocked at the state of him when he came home the past evening, and he had to invent some little nothing of a lie that she clearly hadn't believed. Worse, she had noticed him wearing Javert's blue stock, which he had forgotten to return. He told her he borrowed it from a friend because he had liked the color.  Valjean was finding it necessary to give far more thought to his clothes than he was accustomed to. 

He quickly donned his second best, still passable, set of clothes that he wore if he must visit Marius while the others were being cleaned. In a small bag he packed a set of simple laborer's clothing, to bring with him in case he needed them to ward off Javert's ire.

Valjean kept his visit to Marius and the boy’s grandfather short, and in doing so was able to make it to the station house on Rue Sainte-Anne by noon.  When he arrived, he had to suppress a shudder at the sight of gendarmes milling around the front room. Javert must have requisitioned them from the nearby guard as reinforcement, he thought.  Javert himself was nowhere in sight.  After waiting for a moment as inconspicuously as possible, Valjean asked after him, and was shown to an office on the second floor.  There he found the temporary leader of the Sûreté deep in paperwork at a desk.

“You are here, then; good.” Javert's smile was as perfunctory as the last glance he spared on the report in front of him. “We've had some good news this morning. One of our Sûreté agents was able to track down Babet's lodgings through a good tip.  After a thorough search, they and the commissaire located much of the paper money stolen from the widow's house. Today we are only looking for the missing jewels, which would be harder for them to handle and have to go through a fence.” Valjean nodded, unsure what was expected of him. Javert stood up, and headed for the door. “Follow me.” A small troop of six gendarmes and two younger inspectors awaited them below.

A rather long walk took the group back to the same street Valjean and Javert had arrived at the previous night. Javert had directed the men to approach from all directions, to ensure that Duguay would not be able to flee if he was present. Now they stood near the front door of the tenement building.

“One of my agents made some inquiries this morning, and our man Duguay lives on the second floor, second room down.” Here Javert pointed at the window. “It's a disreputable building – I wish I knew everything that was going on in there. But it appears very likely that Fauntleroy is correct, and Duguay acts as a minor receiver for Patron-Minette.”

Javert gave no further instructions, leaving Valjean to assume that everyone except himself knew what to do.  At Javert’s knock, the porter quickly let them in.  

When they reached the room Javert had indicated, he gestured for silence, and carefully picked the lock.  As the door swung open, Javert rushed in, followed closely by Valjean and some of the gendarmes.  The room was silent and empty - there was no one else present. Despite it being early afternoon, very little light made its way into the room through the small and smoke-choked window. The three inspectors began searching the room methodically. It was sparsely furnished, and Javert seemed to be confining himself to tapping on the walls. 

Several beds and pallets around the room said that Duguay did not live alone. Valjean was struck by the memory of the “Jondrette” family living in the old Gorbeau house. He shuddered. He began to desperately hope that Javert would not be arresting the head of a family today, leaving children without any means of support. Far better to hope that this was the home of some kind of criminal fraternity...

“Monsieur Javert?” The shorter of the two other inspectors held up a rolled leather bundle. “Looks like they are up to no good here. Modeling wax, files, bars of pewter – I don't think we have an honest locksmith here.”

“Great. I hadn't heard that Duguay was in the lockpicking business, so maybe he has some associates here.” Javert had moved on to the flagstones around the room's fireplace, attempting to budge each of them.

Loud footsteps outside announced that more than one person was climbing the old wooden staircase to the second floor, and all eyes turned towards the door. The footsteps were heavy and slightly uneven.

“ - the liquor there is terrible, but you will see ...” The man's voice and footsteps stopped at the same time.

“Halt,” commanded one of the gendarmes, from where he was waiting outside the door.  

“Damn, the  raille!” There was a loud clatter as the newcomers ran back the way they came, and further commotion as all six of the gendarmes took off in pursuit.

Valjean looked to Javert. “Aren't you going after them?”

“No, I don't think so. Let them have their chase, let them earn their paycheck,” said Javert, still working at the stones in the fireplace.

“Can I help?” Valjean offered.

“Yes. Where would you hide a collection of stolen jewels?” Javert looked up from his work as he spoke. There was an edge of sarcasm in his tone that Valjean didn't like.

“Javert,” he said with a warning tone.

“Very well, a hypothetical you.”

An inhuman clacking sound cut through the air suddenly.

Valjean and the three inspectors looked up, equally puzzled and alarmed. The sound had come from the adjoining room, only partially partitioned off from where they stood. It repeated, more emphatically this time. Gripping his heavy cane, Javert strode quietly to the makeshift door. Valjean followed closely behind, in case there were more criminals here tonight. The door yielded to a hard shove, and Javert gave a little laugh.

Inside the small and rather dark room was a single pallet on the floor, and disjointed piles of miscellaneous items that had likely been stolen – fine handkerchiefs, empty purses and the like, out of place in the dingy apartment. None of that was what immediately caught the eye, however. Near the lone window was tethered a massive bird, which threw its head back with another rattling call. The creature straightened itself up on its long yellow legs and stared at the newcomers from its perch. Stark black and white, with a barred breast and a long tail, with a red and pale blue bill and a piercing eye, the bird looked as fearsome as it did comical. It raised the black feathers of its crest inquisitively.

“I think it's some kind of vulture?” ventured Valjean, maintaining eye contact with what was likely France's only Crested Caracara.

“Surely this bird isn't from France,” said Javert, making no move towards it.

“Nothing like this in the countryside where I grew up.” Valjean was wracking his brain but he could not figure out why he felt as though he had seen this bird before. It was lurking somewhere in the recesses of his mind, and would not come out on command. “Why would it possibly be here?”

“Oh, it's an old trick. Bring an exotic animal like that out for people to gawk at, on a fine day in the park, maybe charge them a few coins, and meanwhile your accomplice picks their pockets. This bird was probably sold to our lowlifes here from a traveling menagerie.” Javert turned to the two other inspectors, who had nearly completed their circuit around the larger room. “Perrault, Sauvage, start searching this room. Jack, what do you think?”  Javert turned on Valjean with a smile as a teasing tone entered his brusque demeanor.  “My country peasant? Will you bring in this fowl for me?”  

Valjean eyed the caracara nervously. It looked to be a far cry from the gentle hens of the Faverolles. “I didn't raise poultry, you know. What are you going to do with it if I catch it?”

“Put it in Eugene's new office, I suppose,” Javert quipped, arms crossed in front of his chest.

“Be serious.”

“Very well, I imagine one of the learned gentlemen from the Académie des Sciences will want it, or perhaps we can take it to the Jardin de Plantes.”

“How do you imagine that will work?”

“I don't know, Valjean, I've never apprehended a vulture before.” Valjean refrained from pointing out that Javert was making no move towards apprehending one now. “We can put it in the stables of the National Guard for now.”

The caracara was watching them intently, head turned slightly to the side for a better view. As Valjean approached, it shifted its long yellow legs uneasily. It leapt off its perch away from him, quickly reaching the end of its tether. It beat what turned out to be impressively long wings, perhaps four feet from tip to tip.

“I will finish with the flagstones – I've never had a way with animals,” Javert addressed the room.

“Hey, hey, hey, now, easy,” Valjean muttered to the thrashing bird. “What we need is a bribe. If only we had some meat.”

The inspector apparently named Perrault called out, “Monsieur Valjean, you're in luck. There is a bucket of raw meat here. They must have been using it to feed the bird.”

The caracara settled down slightly when Valjean backed away to get the small bucket, and became clearly intrigued as he held up a small scrap of unidentified meat. It tossed its head back, and swayed slightly as interest overcame its natural wariness.

He gingerly held the meat out further, trying to keep his fingers out of the way as much as possible while the bird leaned in closer.

“Here it is!” yelled Perrault. The caracara leapt back as the inspector held up a small box triumphantly. “Or at least, they are some jewels.”

“Good. We will have to compare them to the inventory that the family reported missing,” observed Javert. “I wonder if that was Duguay himself that our colleagues were chasing after, or just an associate of his with bad timing and a guilty conscience.” He looked around at the contents of the small room again. “It will be hard to find the true owners of everything here unless they made a detailed report, but that's not our main concern here. I suspect Duguay's housemates are not up to any good - he wouldn't risk lodging with honest men.”

“You don't think he has a family here?” asked Valjean with relief.

“I don't know, but our agent Fauntleroy never reported anything of the kind. We will make an inventory of everything here, and post a guard here until we can be sure what is stolen property. Bring those watches, though, Perrault; certainly stolen. Valjean, the bird. Where are those gendarmes?!” Javert left, presumably in search of the missing soldiers.

Valjean sighed and resumed holding out the meat to the caracara. After a moment, it accepted the offering, and inched closer. Another piece from the bucket, and another step closer. Valjean carefully reached out to the base of the perch, and untied the other side of the tether. Gathering most of the thin cord in his left hand, he gently tried to coax the bird onto his arm with another piece of meat in his right hand. The caracara stepped up, and he felt a rush of victory.  He also felt the power of the bird’s grip, and the sharpness of its talons.  His thin summer coat was little defense against them.  

Javert returned shortly after, talking with one of the gendarmes. He saw Valjean murmuring softly to the caracara.  “Jack! You've got the bird, excellent. I shouldn't be surprised. Our friends have got their birds as well, so we can be going. It was Duguay and one of his colleagues,” he added parenthetically.

Apparently used to being handled, the caracara put up no more resistance and settled down on Valjean's arm. He found himself admiring the strange creature – up close, it was truly magnificent. It was equally cooperative when they left the apartment, Javert leaving two of the gendarmes behind to guard the scene.  The group parted further, with the police taking their prisoners and the jewels with them, and Valjean was assigned to deliver the caracara to the stables of the National Guard.

This has been the Completely Canon Crested Caracara of Self-Indulgence. This caracara is the same one that was outside of the Thenardiers’ inn when Valjean came to get Cosette, which is why it looks vaguely familiar to him. They can in fact live that long; up to 30 years or so in captivity. Caracaras are actually a type of falcon, but our protagonists don’t know that. They were classified with vultures at the time due to superficial similarities in looks and behavior.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Hours later, having made a detailed explanation about the caracara to the confused and irritated stablemaster, and having set up a makeshift perch of his own device for it in an empty stall, Valjean returned to the Sûreté headquarters at Rue Sainte-Anne. When he entered, Javert looked up from his desk with satisfaction.

“The bird is safely tucked away?”  Javert asked.  “I sent a message to the head animal keeper of the Jardin de Plantes about it – I doubt it will be in the stable for long.”

“Yes, it was a cooperative creature after all.”

“As was Duguay. He confessed to involvement with Patron-Minette, although he denies having anything to do with the murder or robbery itself. He has no idea where the jewels are from originally, he says – Babet doesn't pay him to ask questions. But we checked them against the list provided, and these appear to be the ones. A jeweler hired by the family can deal with questions of authenticity later.” He got up and stretched happily. “That's been a good day's work. Will you come with me to get some dinner?”

“With pleasure.” Valjean had eaten nothing since a hurried breakfast.

As they found relatively quiet cafe and sat down to dinner, Javert reported on all the details of the conclusion of the case that he had missed while occupied with the caracara. Now that the case was concluded, Valjean observed that Javert had become warmer and more talkative. Perhaps the other man was reflecting his own energy, Valjean thought, since he was feeling calmer and more at ease now. Valjean tried to discreetly push more food on Javert, whom he felt needed it. It was a surprisingly enjoyable way of spending the evening, and not even the earlier sight of the bucket of raw meat had dulled his appetite.

As they left the cafe, Javert hesitated, a hungry look still in his eyes as he watched Valjean. “You are still welcome to stay over with me, whenever you like.”

“I think I would like that.”

“In that case, I'll call us a cab,” said Javert with a wide smile.  When he flagged one down, he gave only one address this time.

Nearly as soon as the small door of the fiacre was shut, as the driver was urging on his horse, Javert was upon Valjean. He seized Valjean's shoulders and smoothed them back against the seat. They kissed as they had kissed in the cab the previous night, but the energy quickly became different. Javert's mouth was eager and demanding - there was nothing leisurely about his kisses now. He leaned over Valjean imperiously, nearly straddling him, and allowed his hand to travel down to rest on Valjean's stomach.

Valjean hissed, “We are still in public, you know.”

“Barely,” Javert growled back.

When they arrived at their destination, Javert released Valjean from his grip with great reluctance. He hopped down, turned, and unnecessarily offered Valjean a hand down from the inside of the cab.

They ran into the portress of the tenement building on the way inside. “Good evening, Monsieur l'Inspecteur,” she said. She took in Javert's companion. “Oh! Here's the gentleman who brought that letter for you the other day.”

“Alright, Madame Verne, no need to pry.”

“Who said anything about prying? I was just telling you who brought the letter.” She pouted slightly.

“Alright, Madame Verne. Good night, Madame.”

As they climbed the stairs, Javert whispered lowly to Valjean, leaning in conspiratorially, “She missed her calling. I have half a mind to make a secret agent of her. The things that woman picks up on!”

“Oh?”

“By this time tomorrow the whole building will have heard you are my new lover. It can't be helped.”

“Is the rumor true?” Valjean tried for Javert's joking air.

“I'm hoping so.”

As soon as they reached the privacy of his apartment, Javert grabbed the lapels of Valjean's coat with both hands, making fists in the fabric. He brought their lips together urgently, then hesitantly. “I haven't...misread this, have I?”

Valjean shook his head nervously, and felt the grip on his coat tighten as Javert kissed him again.

“You won't need this,” Javert said, tugging at Valjean's coat. He removed their hats, and his own coat. His attempts to help Valjean with his coat and cravat made things more difficult than they had to be, but he didn't have the heart to stop him. Down to their shirtsleeves, Javert took Valjean by the wrist and led him to the bed in the rear of the room. Still standing, Valjean decided to take the initiative and kiss Javert, who responded with a surprisingly soft sigh. Javert brought the fingers of his large hand to rest against Valjean's cheek while he deepened the kiss.

Javert's other hand pulled at Valjean's tucked in shirt, freeing the front of it. His hand slid up underneath the shirt, roaming for a moment before Javert set himself to the task of removing the shirt. Feeling exposed, but a little giddy, Valjean reached for Javert's shirt as well. There was a playfulness to Javert's movements that soothed something in Valjean, allowing him to relax further. He was ready when Javert took both of his bare wrists and tugged him down to the bed with him.

Hands on Valjean's chest, Javert pressed him into his mattress. His hands were reverent as they explored the planes of Valjean's muscles. Valjean had never expected to be the subject of such attention. His body was a tool that he used; one that had served him well over the years and had gotten him out of a fair number of scrapes. But in the lamplight, Javert was looking at him as if he were beautiful.

Holding himself above Valjean, Javert kissed along his throat, ending at the base of his ear, where he lingered briefly. Without warning, he caught hold of Valjean's earlobe and nibbled at it gently. “Oh,” Valjean gasped softly.

A hand lowered to run down his hip, along his thigh, and to the inside. “May I?” whispered Javert into his ear.

“Yes,” Valjean replied, hardly thinking about what he was saying. “Yes.”

Javert pushed himself up and then made his way down Valjean's body, reaching into his trousers, and stroking his cock, light and teasing. He was already beginning to be in a state of arousal from Javert's attentions. “I would like to get acquainted with this,” Javert said, possibly for the pleasure of seeing Valjean's blush deepen. Valjean let out a tiny nervous laugh, and nodded.

After one more quick look up at Valjean to check on him, Javert took him in his mouth with evident enjoyment. The warmth of Javert's mouth and the jolt of pleasure he received transported Valjean. Javert gave a small moan around Valjean's cock, which vibrated through him. Javert turned out to be skillful with his tongue. Valjean tried not to, but he found himself thrusting slightly into the other man's mouth. Javert didn't complain, but rather slipped his hand back around the base of Valjean's cock to keep from being overwhelmed. Valjean could feel that he was approaching the edge quickly.

“Javert, I...” he said, and Javert nodded slightly without releasing him. He came in Javert's mouth, to his embarrassment, but it was clear that this was what the other man had intended. Javert's submissiveness during the act had surprised Valjean, and if he was being honest, he found that it rather pleased him.

Javert moved back up to kiss him, still desperately eager. “You just -” Valjean tried to protest, but it was not so bad. He could feel the evidence of Javert's arousal against his leg.

He had very little concept of what would be the polite thing here – was he expected to do the same thing for Javert? He wasn't sure he could bring himself to, but he didn't want to be ungenerous. He tugged at Javert's trousers, cautiously reached for his cock, and began to stroke him. Javert was tense, trembling, already on the edge. Valjean kissed him while he worked, slipping his tongue into Javert's mouth. It was enough, and Javert soon came with a loud groan.

They lay together for a moment while Javert caught his breath. Valjean rested his head against Javert's chest, and noticed with surprise that he could hear the other man's heart. He could even feel the hint of its beats as it slowed back down. It seemed a wonder to him that such intimacy could exist.

Eventually, Javert ran his fingers through Valjean's hair again. “You all right?” he said softly. It seemed unlike Javert to be so solicitous, but perhaps in unusual circumstances...

Valjean briefly considered the question. He didn't feel like anything had fundamentally changed in his life, or that any great sin had occurred. But he was deeply grateful for this experience with Javert, and it did feel as though this were important.

“You are good at that,” Valjean said at last, searching for something to say.

“You wouldn't know,” said Javert, with a proud smirk that undermined his words. He got out of bed, cleaned them up, blew out the lamp, and returned to bed.

“Good night,  mon vieux hibou,”* said Javert.  He ran his hand down Valjean’s side again, stopping at his hip.  

Valjean chuckled. “Why am I your owl?”

“You've been such an odd old bird, always alone, always out at night. And I hope you are mine now.”

Now Valjean's breath caught. “If you are mine.”

In the dark room, Valjean felt Javert wrap around his back, and a bony arm snaked around his chest. A kiss was pressed into his back. He felt perfectly content in a way that he could not remember ever feeling before in his life. He wanted to hang on to the moment, to make it last, but it was not long before he and Javert were asleep.

* My copy of Les Mis explains in a footnote: “The word hibou (‘owl’) also means metaphorically a reclusive person, as in English one might say ‘a lone wolf’.” This is the meaning in the back of Javert’s mind when he says this.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The next morning, Valjean awoke early and, rather than rising early as was his custom, he lay awake watching Javert sleep. He had awoken more by instinct than by daylight, since the thick curtains of the room filtered out much of the daylight upon arrival. He reflected on the all strange twists of fate that had led him to this place. Valjean was still lost in thought, when Javert began to stir. He rolled over towards Valjean, who carefully rested a hand on his shoulder. Evidently this was enough to fully wake him, as he tensed and opened his eyes.

“Good morning,” said Valjean pleasantly.

“Jean Valjean. You would be the morning sort, too. Whenever do you sleep?”

“I sleep enough.”

“About last night,” Javert said gruffly, sleep still clinging to his voice. “I get horribly sentimental, after.”

“I don't mind,” Valjean replied, meaning it.

“I mean, it doesn't have to be a big deal. If you even want to do it again.” 

“I don't think I would mind being yours, Javert,” he said softly. “Or being your owl,” he added with a slight chuckle.

Javert frowned back at him, his face settling easily into its habitual scowl, but he was clearly fighting a grin. “Very well. I'm expected at the offices today, for what promises to be a long day of official reports. There's nothing that could possibly occupy you there.”

Valjean nodded his acknowledgement. He hadn't supposed that Javert would be taking the day off.

“Still. I would feed you breakfast, but I'm afraid I still don't have anything here. I do my own shopping, as you see,” Javert said with a trace of embarrassment.

It made sense – the building was large and surely there were too many tenants for the portress to look after all of them. And Javert was a stubborn man. “You should have someone to look after you – maybe your health would improve.”

Javert rolled his eyes but refrained from saying what he thought of that.

“You have to eat, Javert. Let me take you to a cafe.”

“All right. Some coffee and eggs wouldn't go amiss.”

Valjean had been prepared to put up more of a fight if Javert had been in an argumentative mood, but the inspector appeared perfectly willing to go along. They sorted out their clothes from the floor in good humor, giving each garment a shake, and, if not their own, passing it back to its owner.

They took breakfast in the same cafe as they had several days earlier, with Jeannot. Valjean was noticing that Javert was less talkative in the mornings. Not being naturally talkative himself, they spent much of the meal in a silence that was more comfortable than not. Perhaps he was in a fanciful mood, but Valjean felt as though today there was an invisible bond linking him to the man across the small table, perched in a chair that was clearly too small for him. He used the silence to feel his way around this sensation. What was it?  Could Javert feel it as well?  Was there even anything there, after all?  His mind wandered and became increasingly fanciful while they finished their meal.  

As they got up to leave, Javert asked, “Will you come by tonight? You know I don't mind; my door is open.”

“I can. Maybe later in the evening?”

“Sure,” Javert said.  “Until tonight then.” 

Valjean nodded, briefly considering an embrace.  He was still uncomfortable with the idea of showing any affection towards the other man in a public setting, though.  

***

As Valjean had feared, Cosette gave him quite a hard time about having spent the night away. He hadn't mentioned a trip this time, or really given her any explanation at all. He had to slip into his best Monsieur le Maire persona in order to dissuade her from asking further questions (he had rarely played the authoritarian as a father). Then she had still insisted that he visit Marius on her behalf, new lint in tow. For all that, they still managed to spend a quiet early evening together reading aloud, although he could tell that she was positively bursting to know where he was going when he announced that he again had business that would take him away overnight.

When Valjean arrived at Javert's building, Madame Verne greeted him happily and let him in with no excuses required. He did have to try and divert her questions, however.  Even her friendly questioning put him on edge after his years of suspicious secrecy.  

As he approached Javert's apartment, Valjean could hear the sound of a guitar playing a simple melody. He knocked, and the music stopped.

Javert opened the door, smiled his wolfish grin while greeting Valjean, and pulled him inside. Javert gripped him tightly and leaned down to kiss him. Valjean contentedly tilted towards the taller man, placing his hands on Javert's shoulders.

When they broke apart, Valjean asked about how his day had been. Javert groaned, collapsed into a threadbare blue armchair, and gestured for Valjean to do the same. He was already in his shirtsleeves.

An unopened bottle of wine and two glasses stood ready. Valjean thought that there was something unexpectedly touching about the idea of Javert preparing for his visit tonight and setting out a glass for him. Javert fished around in his pockets for a penknife and opened the bottle, poured two glasses and offered one to Valjean, all the while talking away. He was clearly in a chatty mood. 

“...You see, I have to listen to or read the reports from every single one of my agents. Well, the ones that delivered them promptly, or came by to speak in person. What about the rest of them? How am I to know? They might have defected, may be playing me false. I know there's no great love for me in the Sûreté. I had hoped that their positive feelings for Vidocq would overcome their dislike for me, but I fear that there's no such luck.”

“I doubt that they dislike you. It's just that you can be intimidating.”

“Hah. Your good opinion aside, and I thank you for it, I am not exaggerating the ill will that I know some of those agents have for me. And in the unlikely case that they are loyal? They may have been wounded on the job for all that I know. A difficult bunch of sheep to shepherd, for certain. Who ever heard of a flock that would bite your hand as soon as look at you?

“I didn't get the chance to step out of the offices once today. If I wasn't entertaining an agent, or writing up a formal report for Allard, I was writing letters to the affected parties. By the way, your bird has been installed in the Jardin des Plantes, where it will no longer be an accessory to crime. The gentleman who came to collect it was quite excited over it. He said he had never seen one and it was from Brazil, if you can imagine.”

“Brazil!”

“Yes.” Javert took a break from his monologue to sip at his wine.  “Have you ever left France? I suppose you wouldn't have returned had you left.”

Valjean answered sadly, “As you know, I've been aboard plenty of ships without ever leaving port. No, I’ve never traveled.  I've done some reading, though, over the years. Von Humboldt's  Personal Narrative of the New World, I particularly liked.”

Javert flashed a knowing smile. “Did you.”

“What?”

“Nothing.” Clearly Javert was needling him again, but Valjean couldn't figure out why.*  It was a habit of Javert’s that annoyed him.

Javert picked up his guitar again pensively.  The instrument’s neck looked particularly fragile in his large hand as he pulled it into position.  “Shall I play for you?”

“Please.”

Javert began to pick out a simple melody, and sang cheerfully:

 

“As from ken to ken I was going,

Doing a bit on the prigging lay,

Who should I meet but a jolly blowen

Tol lol, lol lol, tol derol ay;

Who should I meet but a jolly blowen,

Who was fly to the time o’ day?

 

Who should I meet but a jolly blowen,

Who was fly to the time of day.

I pattered in flash, like a cove knowing,

Tol lol, lol lol, tol derol ay;

‘Ay, bub or grubby I say.’” **

 

The song, containing many such verses, was unfamiliar to Valjean, but the spirit of it was recognizable enough.  After finishing it, Javert continued to play and sing.  It was clear from his repertoire where his musical education had taken place, although he knew some popular songs and ballads in addition to thief songs. Valjean occasionally joined in on the words for especially well known songs, or ones that had been popular when he had been in the  bagne. It made for a quite enjoyable way of spending the evening.

Eventually Javert set down the guitar, saying “I'm out of practice, but you’re a kind audience.”

They finished off the bottle of wine, and Javert asked if he was staying the night.

“Assuming that I'm still welcome?”  Valjean asked.  

“Of course,” Javert replied, kissing Valjean and leading him towards the bed.  “Will you undress for me,  mon hibou?” asked Javert, in a softer tone than normal.

Valjean was deeply embarrassed, but did as he was asked. It was an odd feeling to be admired by a lover – for Javert was making no attempt to hide his admiration for the sight in front of him. Having looked his fill, or perhaps having merely looked as much as the shyer man would tolerate, he went in for a kiss. Working together, they made short work of Javert's clothing, laughing as their combined efforts made things more difficult than would be if the man merely undressed himself. A gentle stroke from Valjean removed Javert's long hair, a sight that was no longer shocking to him.

They sat down on the bed, Valjean feeling slightly cold. Their kisses, and Javert's hands on his solid torso, rapidly began to warm him, however.  He was slowly becoming comfortable.  Suddenly, gripping Valjean's waist, Javert tumbled over and tugged Valjean on top of himself, coaxingly.

“Be careful, am I hurting you?” asked Valjean solicitously.

“I'm not made of porcelain, you know,” Javert hissed. “Honestly, you are just as bad as Eugène.”

“What?! You've done this with Vidocq?”  The worst ran through Valjean’s head.

“What?! You haven't been paying attention at all, have you?” replied Javert, equally shocked.  “Of course not, how could you think such a thing? He's a philanderer, loves women. And why do you always assume I would give myself to just anyone?”

Reassured and feeling a bit guilty, Valjean said “I suppose you are a bit of a flirt.”

“A flirt, he says. You know I'm an officer of the law, not a particularly lonesome grisette. Are you jealous?”

“No,” lied Valjean.

“Is that why you act like this? You are possessive.” Javert sat partway up, nipping gently at Valjean's lips. “Perhaps your time would be better spent making me feel like I am yours.”

“What do you mean?” he said, already suspecting.

“I don't think you are as innocent as you pretend,” Javert said. “But very well. Take me. I like it inside me.”

Valjean swallowed nervously and nodded. He did not want to hurt Javert. Javert seemed to have no such fear, though, and he stroked Valjean to full hardness, kissing him until he doubted he could object to anything Javert proposed.  He handed Valjean a small bottle of vegetable oil that he had not yet noticed next to the bed.

“I had hoped,” he answered in response to Valjean's wordless question.

“It's been so long since I've had this, though,” Javert said. “You will need to open me up, first.” He showed Valjean how to use his fingers and the oil to prepare Javert's body for entrance. Valjean slowly moved first one, then two fingers inside Javert. He was intrigued by the sounds the other man began to make, turning into deep moans suddenly as Valjean found the right spot within him.  Valjean thought that perhaps this would be fine after all; it certainly seemed like Javert understood what he liked.

“Please...” Javert said, spreading his legs further. Valjean didn't make him wait longer. He lowered himself over Javert and with the help of the oil, easily penetrated the lanky figure below him. A jolt of pleasure shot through him. He remained still for a moment, and then began to move his hips cautiously. Javert groaned and arched into him.

 How long has Javert wanted me like this?  Valjean found himself wondering. The thought was dizzying.  He lowered himself close enough to kiss at Javert's throat, remembering how such attentions had felt. Javert quickly tilted his head back to allow his lover better access.  Javert brought his arms up around his shoulders, but Valjean gave a yelp as Javert's long nails scratched into his back. “Sorry,” gasped Javert, who released him and scrambled for a grip in the blankets.

“Jean, -” growled Javert. “- Valjean. You – surely you –  Pardieu! - Jean!”

Javert's responsiveness was driving Valjean wild. He placed his hands on Javert's shoulders, pressing him down hard into the mattress, while speeding up his thrusts. Javert writhed wildly, not trying to escape from his grip. He wanted this to continue all night, and knew this could not continue for long. He couldn't maintain control, couldn't rein himself in, not when Javert was so hot and tight around him, moaning and panting with every move he made. He kissed Javert's throat as he came, and apparently the kiss and the feeling of Valjean's orgasm was enough to send Javert over the edge as well.

They lay together for a moment, catching their breath, with Valjean still inside and on top of Javert. Their eyes met, and held. Valjean's heart was full of a newfound peace and warmth.  The vulnerability he felt, too, was nearly enough to frighten him, but somehow it was not unpleasant.  Was this how it was for everyone?  Something within him ached and something wanted to sing, and he had no words for any of it.

 

* Alexander von Humboldt basically invented biogeography, among other accomplishments, and his writings were an inspiration to Charles Darwin and Alfred Russel Wallace. His books were popular at the time among non-scientists as well. He was also almost certainly super gay, and apparently this came through in his writings. This is why Javert is teasing Valjean.

** I didn’t write this song - taken from “Argot and Slang: A New French and English Dictionary of the Cant Words, Quaint Expressions, Slang Terms and Flash Phrases Used in the High and Low Life of Old and New Paris,” by Albert Barrère. It is itself a variant from a song in Vidocq’s memoirs. It’s basically about meeting a jolly strumpet while the singer is out stealing things, and going to rob a gentleman with her, and there are so many more verses.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


As the next few days passed, a new world was opening up for Jean Valjean. The time he spent with Javert, both in and out of the other man's bed, was like nothing he had ever experienced before. Some long dormant seed in his heart sprouted, and quickly began to flower. He felt the beginnings of love towards the gruff police inspector, but had not yet said the words.  He had not understood, before, the different forms that love could take.  When he was in a more philosophical mood, it seemed a wonder to him that the same word would apply both to the unconditional, cherishing love he held for Cosette, and the passionate love he was developing for Javert.  For it was inevitable that he would compare these two monumental times in his life, when his whole emotional landscape had suddenly undergone upheaval and reformed into a different shape.

He found himself wanting to spend more and more time with Javert, but reality intervened. Javert had always been dedicated to his work, and found that it took up even more of his time now that he was heading the Sûreté. For the most part, they could only see one another in the evenings, and that was assuming nothing too pressing came up for Javert.

Their nights together did not always culminate in sex. Javert's work hours were long and unpredictable, and his fatigue was obvious some nights. Valjean’s own desire was rarely overwhelming. Valjean would pick up a book from the scant selection available at Javert’s apartment, and read aloud while Javert rested against his shoulder. Perhaps his age was showing, but he found as much pleasure in this quiet intimacy as in their more vigorous activities.

***

Javert walked Valjean up the stairs to Bernard’s office on the appointed day when they had arranged to meet with the lawyer.  They entered a modestly sized room, but with elegant wood wainscoting, and well positioned windows that let in plenty of light.

“So this is the good convict-mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer!” said Bernard with evident curiosity, rising from his desk and extending a hand to Valjean.

“You once could have called me that, I suppose,” said Valjean, feeling exposed.  He took Bernard’s hand, and the latter grasped it warmly.  He hadn’t realized that this Bernard would be so young.

“I’ve helped a few people with petitions for a pardon before,” Bernard said to Valjean, “But never at Javert’s request.  I hope that you will forgive me for saying that your case is an interesting one, monsieur.”

Valjean smiled at him humorlessly, but with friendly intent.  

They sat down to work, Bernard and Javert coaching Valjean while he scribbled a draft furiously.  They made sure to play up the public good deeds that Valjean had done: his rescue of the sailor on the  Orion, the years of work he had done on behalf of the town of Montreuil, and his numerous charitable projects in that town.  They described Valjean’s quiet way of living, his almsgiving, his attendance at mass.  They brought up his recent service in the Sûreté, mentioning that he had helped to bring to justice the leaders of a highly dangerous Parisian gang.  Valjean found it odd to hear his life summarized aloud like this, especially with a man he didn’t know.  But Bernard was kind and professional.

When they had put together a draft that they felt happy with, Valjean wrote out a fair copy carefully and signed it.

“Don’t send it straight away.  It would be a real feather in your cap if we could convince Prefect Gisquet to bring your petition to the attention of the king,” said Javert.  

“Why would he do that?” asked Valjean.  The idea sounded like a stretch.

“He might be convinced to do it.  One of his predecessors did something similar for Vidocq.”

“If you think so.”  Valjean was unconvinced, but then again, he was unconvinced about the whole project in general.  He had already made up his mind to follow Javert’s advice, though; he supposed he had done so the day he first placed his freedom in Javert’s hands.

After they had finished their task, the three men made small talk until Bernard ushered them out apologetically, saying that he had another client coming by in the next few minutes.  

***

Valjean still had not told Cosette where he went at nights, much less introduced her to Javert. It occurred to him that he needn't always spend the whole night, but the thought of leaving Javert's side sooner than necessary was deeply distasteful.  And on the nights they made love, Valjean felt it would be inconceivable to leave Javert alone afterwards.  His excuses to Cosette became strained, at best.

“Papa, I don't know how I can tell you this, but I know the truth,” Cosette suddenly said one day, apropos of nothing.  Her expression gave nothing away.

Valjean froze at the proclamation. Which truth had Cosette guessed at? Did she realize that he was not her real father? Had she guessed why he was staying out at nights? Or, possibly the worst of all, had she somehow found out about his past, about the bagne?

“You can tell me everything. Remember how I was good and told you everything about Marius? In the end, it was such a relief to not have a secret anymore.”

“Cosette, whatever it is you think you know -”  He knew she was wrong - there was nothing he could tell her.  

“Papa, you must stop being so tiresome. I don't mind! I am happy that you have someone else in your life now. I wish you would tell me who she is.”

“I – there is no woman! Where do you get these ideas?”  Valjean’s surprise was unfeigned.  

“Please tell me the truth. I have seen the difference in you these past days. You are filled with joy, and you will not stay in the apartment at all. You think that I did not notice how you are suddenly eager to leave home at all hours, never to invite me along on your walks?  My father, who used to hardly leave the house?”

“Cosette, I told you, I have some business that takes me away from home some days and some nights. I ran into an old friend recently, and we have been eager to catch up on our lives.”  Valjean crossed his arms and stared at Cosette with vexation.

“I have never seen you spend time with a friend – since when do you even have friends?” observed Cosette with a wide smile. “Who is she?” she repeated.

“I'm telling you, there is no woman.  He  is simply an old friend.”

“I'm not sure I can believe you, but I suppose I must,” Cosette said with a resigned look on her face that almost made Valjean regret what was certainly a misdirection, if not an outright lie. “I don't mean to be disrespectful. It's just that, now that I'm thinking about it, wouldn't it be rather nice if you married? I mean, I have Marius, and you have always been so solitary. Remember how in Rue Plumet you wouldn't even live in our main house? I would like to see you settled, married. Yes, I think that would very much suit me, even if it is too late for her to be like a mother to me.”

Valjean laughed, and relaxed a little. “What can I say, Cosette?  You know I like to obey your whims, but it's not meant to be.”

***

Even though Cosette was suspicious, Valjean continued to spend more nights with Javert than alone. He couldn't stay away, and found that his wish to spend time with the man was not sated by their evenings together. During their days spent apart, Valjean even found himself idly daydreaming about bringing the inspector back to his home to live with him, so that they would have more time together. He felt that the time was not right, however, and how would he ever explain to Cosette? Would Javert even agree to such a thing?

These things were on his mind as he made his way late one July evening to see Javert.  When he arrived at the man’s apartment, he found his lover in an excited mood.

“Good news for you, my friend,” Javert started even as Valjean removed his hat. “Gisquet has consented to send on your petition to the king.  He knows nothing of your case, but I’ve never requested anything of him before, and I gave him a few highlights.  I only had to plead a little, and escaped with my dignity intact.  You need do nothing more except give me the signed petition.”

“Thank you,” said Valjean with sincerity.  Javert’s happiness for his sake was touching.  “I’ll bring it by the next time that I see you.”

But by the time they sat down and he asked Javert about his day, Javert’s mood took a turn for the worse.  He launched into a complaint about his agents in the Sûreté.

“Seems that some of the treacherous devils took my advice – I haven't seen hide or hair of them since Vidocq handed over the little organization to me. I did want them out, if that's how they felt, but nonetheless it's inconvenient. And the timing is bad for everyone. Two of them cleared right out of the barracks, just packed their bags that very night that I took control. Now I'm expected to keep arrest numbers up with fewer agents, and it looks to an observer like old Mec was soft on his agents’ misbehavior. Those men were just like a red cape waved in front of Vidocq's enemies; I don't know why he didn't do something about them sooner.”

“Vidocq seems loyal to the men he leads,” Valjean commented approvingly.

“Too loyal, if you ask me.”  Javert looked up at the ceiling in annoyance, glaring at it as if some of the offending agents could perhaps be found there.

“He saved your life, Javert.  You have no cause to complain about -”

Javert groaned. “Not that again.”

“ - for which I am grateful, even if you can't manage to be,” Valjean added.

Javert glared daggers at him. “I am, was, useful to him. He knew he could trust me. There was certainly something in it for him. By the way, and along those lines, are you sure that I can't convince you to properly join in – work cases, that sort of thing? I'm desperate for men I can trust.”

“I'm sure, Javert. You know I've reformed, but I cannot bear the idea of bringing other people down to where I used to be. It's a different matter entirely if there might be some danger, and you need assistance.”

“I understand,” he replied, but Valjean rather doubted that he did.  There were simply times that they could not see eye to eye.  He was unwilling to get into an argument with Javert at the moment, if he could help it.  He rather suspected that Javert felt the same way, from the way the policeman dropped the subject.

Javert’s restless energy that night was contagious, however, and Valjean soon allowed himself to be coaxed into bed.  Javert kissed him roughly, but with a playful smile.  He held back despite his evident eagerness, and Valjean thought he understood that Javert wanted him to take the lead.  Valjean did, laying him down and redoubling his kisses.  He fished around for the small bottle of oil, still halfway kissing Javert.  When he found it, Javert rolled over onto his side.  

“Like this,” Javert said, half a command.  Valjean smiled:  Javert’s odd submissiveness had its limits.  He ran his hand down Javert’s back and lay down behind him.  He was generous with the oil, and started to work Javert open with his fingers…

“That’s enough.  I’m ready for you.”

Valjean soon was panting, thrusting, and clutching Javert to his chest as they lay on their sides. As he fell into an easy rhythm, his hand found Javert’s nipples, he mouthed at the nape of his neck.  He found he quite liked having Javert in his arms like this, vulnerable and all, all his.  Javert's moans became increasingly desperate, and, having mercy, Valjean reached a hand down to grip his cock.  He held his breath for a moment, feeling Javert caught between the pleasures he could give him. He was learning just how Javert liked to be touched, and could tell that the man could not hold back much longer. Javert came with a final moan, and made no complaint when Valjean continued to thrust into him until he reached his own climax. Sated, Valjean pulled his partner in even more tightly, pressing tightly against hot, sweaty skin.  They were silent for long moments.

“Am I being selfish?” Valjean asked at last, into Javert's bare shoulder.

Javert twisted around and looked at him as if he were going mad.

“I mean,” and here the older man struggled for words, “I have never let you do that to me.”

“Do I not seem content?” Javert said with a small silent laugh. He reached back to stroke Valjean’s hip, and added, “Most of the men I've been with didn't want me that way. Isaac didn't like penetration. It's fine.”

A small stab of jealousy pierced Valjean's contented mood, as he wondered exactly how many men Javert had been with, but it was not strong enough to stick around. But he had noticed what Javert didn't say, though, and was thoughtful as they drifted to sleep.

***

Valjean began to feel guilty in an entirely new way about keeping the truth from Cosette. Here he was, forbidding Cosette from seeing her beloved in the name of modesty, while he snuck around to lay with his own lover. It was true, she was a young girl and he was her father, but part of him felt like that was an unreasonable excuse. The two would be chaperoned, after all. He could see to it. There was really no reason to continue to forbid Cosette from accompanying him on his visits to Marius. He would speak to her about it, he thought determinedly as he made his way home from a visit to Marius, after visit to Javert.

The day had promised rain, and he made it back to his apartment right as it started up. The summer shower came down hard, splattering against the windows. His coat was damp, but he was otherwise unscathed.

Cosette greeted him at the door. “Papa! You were almost soaked. And how is Marius this morning?”

“About the same, my dear, I'm afraid to say.”

She lowered her head. “Have they found a new doctor for him yet?”

“They are still looking.” Here Valjean silently steeled himself. “Cosette? In the future, would you like to accompany me to visit your Marius?”

Cosette gasped with delight. “I thought you would never allow it!”

“You must understand, he's not in good condition. His wounds are not the sort of thing that a young girl should see. But you have been true to him, and who knows? Perhaps the sight of you would help do what medicine has so far failed to bring about.” There was a part of Valjean that still loathed the boy, an animalistic snarling that had not been fully tamed. But he was warming up to the idea of him, assuming that the boy did nothing to betray the loyalty Cosette had shown him.

“I understand, Papa!” She hugged him gleefully.  

“Very well, my dear.  Tomorrow let’s go to him together.”

It was as if Cosette were walking on air for the rest of the day.  He would catch her singing softly under her breath.  He had not heard her lovely voice sing in what felt like many weeks, burdened as she had been with unhappiness.  Throughout the day, she would punctuate what she was doing with some little comment or another to Valjean.  She pointed out the antics of “her birds:” there was a nest that house martins had built against the walls of the courtyard in their building, right under Cosette’s window.  Cosette had been keeping Valjean informed of their progress as the young birds fledged, followed their parents, and learned to fly in the peaceful confines of the courtyard.  The birds had clearly entertained her, with their nimble flight and elegant blue-black and white coloration, and so Valjean was glad for them.  Today Cosette seemed like one of the darting, cheerful creatures herself; aflight with happiness.  The change astonished Valjean.  

*Looks at what I’ve done* So, I promise that the rest of this thing isn’t just sex. There’s a plot! I wrote a whole plot, with subplots and everything.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Valjean stretched himself out the next morning while Javert still slept. Pleasant memories of the night before came flooding back:  Javert's enthusiasm had certainly not worn off.  He prepared a simple breakfast for them before Javert awoke, and pushed aside the heavy curtains to allow in ample sunlight.  After they ate, Valjean decided to walk with Javert to the offices in Rue de Saint-Anne before heading home himself. Javert had been spending very little time in the field these days, because of the demands of his position, and Valjean was aware of how restless it was making him. They took a longer route than necessary to stretch their legs and, the unspoken reason, to avoid parting for a little while longer.



When they arrived at the building, a police officer was waiting impatiently outside. He stood up at attention when he saw Javert. It was Inspector Perrault, whom Valjean remembered from the first case he had accompanied Javert on, and he had started waving them down.



“Monsieur Javert!” he called out.



“Yes, yes, what is it?” Javert's voice held a note of annoyance.



“There's been a murder. I've been asked to get the Sûreté involved in the investigation, and I thought I should bring it to you, personally. Can you come now?”



“Of course,” he said. Turning to Valjean, he added, “What do you think? Will you come with me? How strong is your stomach?”



“Strong enough when it needs to be,” Valjean shrugged.



“Good. I'll be right back,” and Javert ducked into the office building. He returned shortly after, empty handed.



“Very well, take it away, Perrault,” he said with a sweeping gesture.



The three men hurried on their way. Perrault filled them in on the details as they walked. “A soldier patrol came across the body early this morning. The victim had been shot two times. We haven't identified the victim yet – whoever the assassin was made off with his purse and any identification which might have been on him. We left everything the way that it was, and the gendarmes are diverting traffic. I thought that you should see it, monsieur.”



Javert tilted his head in pleased acknowledgement.



“Our victim looks to have been in his thirties, tall, - but not tall like you, monsieur – and blonde. But what am I saying, you will see soon enough.”



It was not much longer before Perrault indicated a narrow street, and when they turned, they found several gendarmes guarding the scene of the murder. The body still lay on the ground. In his life, Valjean had seen rather more of death and injury than he had wanted to, but he was far from accustomed to the sight, and turned his head for a moment. The scene itself had an air of lifelessness, he thought rather fancifully. Other than their small group plus the gendarmes, no one was in sight, and some laundry hanging down from the windows bordering the alley was the only sign of life.  There wasn’t a cloud in sight, and no breeze stirred the warm city.  Even the city pigeons were not to be seen.



Javert knelt down next to the dead man, who lay on his back, and carefully looked over him. Valjean couldn't read his expression. There was a coldness and single-mindedness to Javert when he was completely absorbed in his work that made Valjean shudder, even after what they had shared. This man, visible now, crouched low so that the long coat he wore trailed into the dust, was recognizable as the one who had hunted him relentlessly.



“He's bruised up,” Javert observed. “Not just a little, either. I would say our man here got into a fight sometime before his death, unless he somehow got these while defending himself.” When Valjean brought himself to look directly at the dead man’s face, he could see the bruises from where he was standing.  While Javert talked, he rolled up the man's sleeves. “Here, too. Some of these marks are clearly from defending himself from blows. But why would his attackers risk a fistfight if they had the means and intention of shooting him?”



No one replied to Javert's clearly rhetorical questions.



“I'll have to remember to ask for a full report from the coroner.”



After a while, Javert stood up and set off towards the opposite side of the street, gazing intensely at the ground. He knelt again, and gave the ground an even closer examination. Valjean couldn't see what was interesting his friend, and he gradually began to feel restless. He noticed a stick nearby, rather small but thick. He picked it up, and flinched slightly when he noticed the flecks of blood on it.  Javert noticed what he was doing, and hurried over.  



“Good spot,” said Javert, taking the branch and examining the spots of blood.



“It's from a cherry tree.”



“How could you possibly know that?”



Valjean gave him a look. “Surely you don't think that I learned nothing in all those years I spent pruning trees. Here.” He brought his hand to curl around Javert's, raising the branch up slightly. “You see this gray-purple bark, smooth with the horizontal scars? Alternating bud scars. And of course, this wasn't the work of any pruner.” He indicated the roughly broken, torn ends of the branch. A quick glance up and down the dim, narrow street confirmed what they were both already thinking – there were no trees in sight, let alone one that could have yielded this branch.



Javert was smiling his purest smile, the one without a trace of hardness or sarcasm. “A cherry tree it is then. I'm not sure what good that will do us, but I'll keep that in mind.” Valjean thought he saw Javert's gaze go to his lips, but the movement was small enough that he could have imagined it. In a moment, Javert must have realized that he was staring, and returned to his examination of the scene.



Valjean's wait was beginning to seem excessive, when at last Javert rose to his feet, seemingly content.



“Look, here's a bit of luck,” Javert said, holding out his hand. “A bit of charred wadding from the gun.” He opened his hand, and Valjean saw a small piece of what appeared to be a charred newspaper. “Not a lot to go on, but it may be something.”



Javert addressed the gendarmes, making arrangements to have the body taken to the morgue.  Then he returned to Valjean.  “I'm off to the Prefecture, to see if our friend here has been reported missing. Coming?”



“Yes.” If Valjean was being honest, he found his daily visits to Marius rather tiresome.  And although he had grown resigned to the idea of Cosette having a sweetheart, today was the first time he would be seeing the two of them together, and he was not looking forward to it.  He welcomed this sudden change of plans.



They parted ways with Perrault, who was still on duty, and made their way back to the Île de la Cité.



“What are you going to do with that piece of paper?” Valjean asked as they walked.



“First, we can guess that our shooter was the type of person who would have a newspaper ready at hand.  That's a start I suppose. Your common, opportunistic assassin doesn't subscribe to the press. If I'm lucky, I will be able to match it to the exact newspaper using the paper quality, but that I would think has very little chance of leading anywhere. Really, our best chance of solving a crime like this is to find a witness.”



Entering the Prefecture of Police, they ran into Inspector Canler, seated at a table and bent over his reports with a slight frown.



“Louis,” said Javert, “Just the man I was hoping to see. We are investigating an assassination that took place in the streets last night. No identification on the body. Anyone reported missing today?”



Canler looked interested. “Yes actually. More than one – do you have a description?” he asked, speaking only to Javert.



“Blonde man, around mid-thirties, around 5 foot 10 inches? He was dressed like an office worker of some kind.”



“That could be one of them, yes. I can't remember the name. A woman came in to see the commissaire, inquiring about a man like that this morning.” Canler stood up, saying that he would go ask his commissaire for them.  He returned to where Valjean and Javert were waiting, carrying a small piece of paper.  



“Hubert Martin,” Canler said. “It was his wife who came looking for him. He's a newspaperman, a minor writer at one of them. Here -” he said abruptly, handing Javert the slip of paper. “Here's the lady's address.”



Javert sighed. “I hate this part.”



“Want me to do it?” asked Canler casually.  His coldness irritated Valjean.



“No. Besides, I'll be the one investigating the case. I have some questions to ask her.” Canler nodded his assent.



Javert also asked Canler to send some uniformed sergeants to interview the residents of the houses bordering the scene of the murder, to see if any witnesses could be turned up. “More trustworthy looking than my agents,” he added. Canler agreed, saying that he would send along a report. Valjean and Javert took their leave of Canler, thanking him for his help.



“And now?” Javert said as they exited the building. “Is this where we part ways?”



“I'm afraid that I promised Cosette that I would take her to go see Marius today.”



“It's a shame, you are a more reassuring person than I.”



“I think that you – well,” started Valjean. Memories came to him of returning Marius to his family with Javert, and he decided to hold his tongue.



“Don't lie,” said Javert, amused.



“Anyway, I can put it off a little longer if you think that I would be helpful to you.”



“I would like the company, yes. And don't think that I don't know how dull it must be to keep visiting that boy.” Javert nodded to himself, distractedly. “All right, it's settled then. We will take a cab to her address – it's not nearby and we will need to drive her to the morgue to assist in the identification.”



Cabs waited around the prefecture, either on police business or waiting for the same. It was not hard to find a driver who was free, and they were soon off.



***



When she answered their knock, Madame Martin had a careworn look about her. She turned paler still at the sight of the two men at her door. She was a handsome woman, respectably dressed, but it appeared that she had been crying earlier that morning.



Javert began speaking stiffly. “Good day, Madame. My name is Inspector Javert, and this is my colleague Jean Valjean.” Valjean bowed. “Has your husband returned home yet?”



“No, messieurs,” she said with a tone of dread. Valjean felt a deep pang of pity for her – she must know that no good would come of their presence here.



“I may have some bad news. A man matching your husband's description has been found. He is dead.” There was a sharp intake of breath. “We will need you to identify the body. Is there anyone who could accompany you? Someone to offer you the support you need?”



Emotion sank through, and she began to cry, but nodded through her tears. “Wait a moment,” she eventually said. She went back inside the house, and eventually returned with a woman that she said was her aunt.



Javert had readied a cab to take the four of them to the morgue, and he handed the ladies up and got in. It was a grim trip, with everyone sitting in silence.



“After all, it might not be him,” Madame Martin spoke up eventually. “These gentlemen have never met him, have you?”



“We have not,” replied Javert.



After another moment of silence, the cab came to a halt. “Have you been here before?” asked Javert. “Do you know what to expect here?”



Madame Martin's face was ashen. “Yes, we've come before.”*



It was still late morning, and the morgue was not yet crowded. Madame Martin moved as if in a daze. Javert appeared to be attempting to keep himself between the lady and the tourists and visitors of the morgue, a surprisingly charitable gesture that Valjean soon imitated. She approached the large glass windows with dread, and looked at the several bodies out on display that day. Valjean recognized the murdered man right as she said with a sob, “That's him.” Valjean's heart sank as well – he had been hoping that she would be spared this pain; he had gotten invested and hoped that this was somehow a mistake.



Javert placed a hand on her shoulder, and said, “Please, stay as long as you need to, and make sure that your aunt or someone else stays with you all day today. Tomorrow I'm afraid I must come and ask you some questions about your husband. I will come to visit your home tomorrow.”



“All right, monsieur,” she said, and they retreated to allow her to begin to process her grief. Her aunt gripped her around the shoulders.



“That was kind of you, Javert,” said Valjean, who had been taken by surprise somewhat by Javert's manner.



Javert made no reply, but just stared glumly into Valjean's eyes for a moment, then turned away.



***



Javert went on alone back to the prefecture to report what he had found, and after taking his leave of him, Valjean returned to his home with his spirits low. Today was the day Cosette had awaited: he had obtained permission from M. Gillenormand for her to visit Marius for the first time since the young man was injured on the barricade.



She was waiting for him, dressed and ready to go the moment that Valjean arrived at the apartment. He smiled at her excitement, and took just enough time to change into his nicest suit of clothes before they left (once laundered, it had suffered very little permanent damage from Javert's ministrations). As he led her to Marius' home, Cosette was so excited that she seemed ready to burst. She seemed to float over the dirty streets on her way, chatting the whole time.



In between her many expressions of thanks for his leniency in letting her visit the young man, she added, “You know, Papa, I really must meet this friend of yours that you keep going off to see. Until I see him, I shall quite refuse to believe that ‘he’ is not a woman.” Valjean didn't fill the pause fast enough, so she continued. “Not that I would mind if it were. I've been thinking about it more, Papa, and I think it must certainly do you a world of good to be married.”



Valjean smiled with a trace of embarrassment. “Cosette, I am not about to be married. But otherwise, it will be as you wish. I will invite my friend – my male friend – over to dinner and you will meet him.”



“I look forward to it! Can you believe, we've never had a dinner guest before? He must be a good friend of yours for you to invite him. Oh! When Marius has fully recovered, we must invite him as well!”



Valjean said something noncommittal. Cosette was an unworldly girl, and perhaps she was unaware of her suitor's social status. The apartment at Rue de l'Homme Armé had certainly not been chosen to impress visitors with Valjean's own wealth, the topic of which he had not yet broached with the boy's family. When the couple had met at the Rue Plumet, Cosette had appeared to be the mistress of a far nicer property. Valjean had very little notion of any courtship, especially among the higher classes, beyond what he had gleaned from the occasional novel of manners. But he sensed that it would be a misstep to allow Marius to see the small, humble apartment where they now lived. However, it mattered little at the moment – he knew that the boy would not be able to leave his house for some time yet.



Cosette was back on the topic of Marius' virtues, and nothing could stop her until they arrived at the young man's home. The porter let them in immediately, recognizing M. Fauchelevent, and they were soon in the elaborate sitting room where Marius was at rest. A simple thin blanket was laid around Marius's shoulders for the sake of modesty. Cosette gave a small wordless cry, and rushed to his side.



Here was the counterbalance to the scene earlier in the day. There was perfect joy between the two young lovers. Cosette's joy was such that even Valjean could not help but be affected by it, and he was brought into a more cheerful mood himself.



The voluble Gillenormand gushed at length about the beauties and virtues of Cosette, and happily lectured to the two young people to a degree that at any other time must surely have worn on their nerves. Today, they were in a heaven of their own. While Valjean found himself thrown into common cause with Gillenormand in their interest in the happiness of the young couple, he could not help but find the man disagreeable. He was as talkative by nature as Valjean was taciturn, and unlike Javert, was much given to lectures. Valjean also found the older gentleman's unseemly familiarity with Cosette to border on the offensive, and it was all he could do to remain civil and impassive with his co-conspirator.  It felt like an entire age before they were ready to leave, Cosette promising passionately to return the next day.


* The morgue in Paris was a popular attraction at the time for sightseerers and gawkers.

The next night, Valjean made his way to Javert's apartment. As was becoming their custom, Javert welcomed him inside and opened a bottle of wine.

Javert started in on the now-usual complaints about his agents. He looked exhausted, making Valjean think that his complaints were not merely perfunctory. “I suppose you will want to hear about what happened in the murder case we were working on?”

“Of course.”  His answer was truthful - he was quite curious.

“Canler’s colleagues weren’t able to find a witness.  Perhaps it was too late at night, or early in the morning, but no one was paying attention to what happened in that little alleyway.  It’s not exactly a peaceful, quiet neighborhood that he was walking through, either.  I think people there tend to mind their own business and keep their heads down.  So, a dead end.

“I stopped by the widow's house again late this morning, to interview her. I didn't learn a lot. She said that she didn't know of any enemies that he had, and that this comes as quite a shock to her. I never got the impression that she was lying to me during our discussion. The one thing that is interesting is that she said he had quite the habit of gambling. He worked at  Les Temps  as a writer. His usual hours were very early in the morning until early afternoon every day, but then he would often go find a game of cards rather than going home. Or he would go home, but leave again after dinner. It sounded like a regular fight in their household – money troubles, you know, because of his tendency to lose. In fact, his widow tells me that he had been losing more often than usual lately, and money was a serious issue. Reading between the lines, from what she said, it sounds like he was a bit of a hot-head. It seems that she loved him, but I imagine she will be better off now.

“Anyway, she told me that he had never been out all night prior to now, which is what made her go to the police. She was afraid that she would look foolish – that perhaps he was not really losing all his money and time to gambling, but rather to a mistress. Perhaps, she thought, he had merely become careless of her feelings and spent the night with the other woman. So she wept, not knowing whether to fear for his safety or rage at his unfaithfulness.

“Now here's the interesting part,” continued Javert. “I was back at the desk for the rest of the day, but I got to thinking. We have some Sûreté agents who run small gambling establishments. They are provided with a license to operate, and they act as spies, and cooperate with our investigations and other agents. One of them, named Gerard Lefèvre, has a cherry tree right outside of his little gambling house. It could be nothing, but the combination of the gambling and cherry branch has me wondering.”

“I thought that you didn't know what a cherry tree looked like.”

“I do when they are covered in cherries. The season for them has just passed. I'm not that unobservant. Lefèvre didn't mind if we picked a few.”

“So you will go and ask about whether he saw anything that night?”

“Here's the thing, though. I haven't heard a word from Lefèvre. Nothing. So either my guess is wrong, or perhaps he can't be relied on. I know for a fact that he's never liked me. Never had a kind word to say to someone of my parentage,” Javert said matter-of-factly. “And if we are honest, I never liked him either, and so I never bothered to mend fences. Pass the wine, would you? Anyway, he wasn't at that first gathering I brought you to – it's outside the scope of his job. So he has never met you and wouldn't recognize your face. What I would like for you to do is accompany me tomorrow when I go talk with him. While I talk with him, I want you to examine the tree. See if it suffered the damage that you say was caused by breaking off a branch like the one you found by the victim.”

“I can do that.”

“Excellent. Then let us talk no more about it tonight.”

“I brought you a new book,” said Valjean - they had finished the last one Valjean was reading.  “I refuse to read legal code aloud to you. Or Isaac's medical journals.” Valjean had spent an enjoyable afternoon going through the books for sale on a cart on the bridge, thinking of which ones might be acceptable to Javert. He had imagined reading them aloud, and the reactions that the different books might bring.

“Your taste in books encompasses nearly everything else. Why do you balk at the useful?”

“Not useful to me,” retorted Valjean.

He pulled out a novel by Balzac, and convinced Javert to give it a try. They began to read. He read until he noticed that Javert had fallen asleep in his chair. Valjean stayed still for a moment, wondering what to do. Should he awaken the man or attempt to carry him to bed without waking him? He had the impression that Javert was a sound sleeper, although since he tried his best not to disturb him, he was unsure. He found that he enjoyed the sight of Javert relaxed like this, the thoughts of the day banished. His frown was gone, leaving behind only the marks that it had made on his face over the years. Valjean decided against waking him.

He carefully lifted Javert from the chair, and although he was heavier than Marius had been, Valjean was not going far, and he managed to place Javert on his bed without waking him. He realized he had erred in not turning down the blankets first, but the man was still dressed and the summer night was likely to be warm enough.

***

The next morning, over cups of coffee in Javert’s apartment, Valjean brought up the topic of Jeannot's mother again. “You promised me that you would introduce me to your stepmother,” he reminded Javert.

“Did I promise that?”  Javert looked up from his mug with a faint frown.

“Yes.”

“Why?” Javert asked when it became clear that Valjean wasn’t going to elaborate.

“I told you, Cosette needs some cards printed. Besides, I have to admit that I'm curious about your family.” This wasn't completely false.

Javert looked at him with some suspicion, but evidently couldn't come up with a good enough reason not to. “Fine. I have a day off in two days. We will head over to see her then. I have to warn you, I don't know if she prints cards.”

“Oh, I'm sure it will work out if it is meant to work out.”

“You are an odd one.”

Valjean gave a little shrug in response. 

“You know what the oddest part is?” Javert continued.  “Here you are, Jean, insisting that you simply must meet my stepmother, a woman I barely know. Yet you have never introduced me to your daughter.”

Valjean's good-humored manner disappeared instantly. “Javert, surely you must understand.  I … worry about you two talking.”

“Why? Don't tell me that she doesn't know what you have been up to all these nights.”

“Now how could I possibly tell her that?”

“I'm sure she has guessed, Valjean.”

“Hm.” He couldn't deny that she was on the right track, at least. “There's another thing - that’s not the half of it.. Cosette … she doesn't know any of it. She doesn't know about my past – she's never even heard the name ‘Jean Valjean’! She thinks I'm Ultime Fauchelevent, her true father.”

Javert rolled his eyes. “How could you lie to the girl so completely? You continue to live under a false identity, even when there is no need for it?”

“No need for it? I disagree. It would only hurt her for the truth to come out now.”

“Don't you think she deserves to know the truth?”

“Not now, I beg of you, Javert. When you encounter Cosette, you are to say nothing to her about any of this. You don't understand – if she is to be married, to a respectable young gentleman, I cannot allow my past to tarnish her good name.” He didn't have the heart to add anything about his present – would Monsieur Gillenormand be more put off by his grandson marrying the daughter of an ex-convict, or the daughter of a sodomite consorting with a police inspector? He did not want Javert to think he was ashamed of him – he was not – and yet he doubted the opinionated old royalist would see the younger man the way he did.

“Very well,” said Javert, who looked like he wanted to say something else entirely. There was an edge to his voice. “If I were to encounter Cosette, then, what would I be to Fauchelevent?”

“I have let her know that I have run into an old friend, from before she came into my life, and that I wish to catch up on old times. She has no reason to think this false.”

“If it must be so.”

“It must,” said Valjean decisively. There was a tense pause, but Valjean remembered his promise to Cosette and powered through it. “But come now, Javert. Come to dinner with us tonight, at Rue de l'Homme Armé, and you can properly meet my Cosette.”

“Ay, I thought you would never ask,” said Javert with a grin.

“Nothing formal, you understand, just a chance to get to meet my daughter.”

“I would be delighted.”

“Good; say, six o'clock?”

“Well, I suppose there must be some advantage to being in charge at my job. I could get there by six.”


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


It promised to be a busy day, as Valjean had already committed to joining Javert on his visit to the gambling house run by Lefèvre, simply called Lefèvre's.

As they approached, Valjean easily spotted the cherry tree in question. It was an old tree that must certainly have predated Lefèvre's itself, done producing fruit for the year. They could see the proprietor from a block away, as he was looking over a shipment of wine that was just arriving on a heavily laden cart.

“Stay outside, and keep a low profile, read me? I don't want Lefèvre to know what you look like. I'm not sure if it will matter, but it doesn't hurt to leave you out of things for now,” Javert said as they approached the door of the establishment.

Valjean nodded his assent, and peeled off away from Javert as if he were visiting the quiet bakery next door.

“Good morning, Gerard.”

“Good morning, Javert. What brings you out here?” The man clasped Javert's proffered hand, and seemed friendly enough, despite Javert's description of him. He looked middle-aged, and was not especially remarkable in looks one way or the other.

“Oh, the usual. I haven't heard from you in a while. I want to hear how you have been getting on! Let's go inside and talk things over,” replied Javert.

“Sure, my man. Just let me finish here and I will be at your disposal.” Turning to the driver of the cart, he pointed and added, “The cellar door is that way. Make sure to stack the boxes in the free space to the right as you go in.”

As Gerard was in no great hurry to get inside, Valjean walked into the bakery to avoid suspicion. It was a small shop, plain but clean, which sold plain breads to local laborers. He waited for the woman running the store to finish with her other customer, then bought a loaf of the heavy brown bread that he was prone to eating. By the time he wandered back out with bread in hand, Lefèvre and Javert were nowhere to be seen. The curtained windows in the building made it unlikely that anyone would be able to identify him from inside.

He wandered back to the front of Lefèvre's, and made his way over to the tree. He would start by seeing what he could find out from the ground, and only climb it if there was no other way. He didn't want to provoke questions that would make things harder for Javert. The shade as he approached the tree was welcome, even early in the morning. It did not take long for him to find what he was looking for – a jagged tear where one of the lower branches had been crudely broken off. The broken branch had been the one nearest to the center of the road, not counting a few smaller twigs and shoots. The vulnerable inner wood was still fresh, and he knew that this damage had been recent.

Having found what he wanted, he realized that he wasn't sure what to do next. Javert had made it clear that he didn't want Valjean to go into the building where he might be seen by Lefèvre, but waiting outside might be more conspicuous. He wandered off to an unoccupied bench that was just barely close enough to see the door, and began breaking off small pieces of bread and eating them slowly, as if that was his intention all along.

At this time of day, there was no one coming and going from the small gambling house. He was glad that he had not entered, as he would no doubt have been the momentary center of attention. Valjean had eaten about half of the loaf when he noticed the tall figure of Javert walking through the door. Javert spotted him and made his way over.

“Well?” Javert said.

“That was the tree, I think. A branch of approximately the right size was broken off from one of the lowest branches recently,” said Valjean, speaking lowly.

“Did anyone saw back the stump of the branch later? Or anything like that?”

“No, it was left broken.”

“Hm. You had more luck than I did, it seems. Either the tree was just vandalized by chance, or we had at least one person both here and at the scene of the murder. Thank you, good work, to the tree. Lefèvre, on the other hand, was as uncooperative as I might have suspected. He claims no knowledge of any criminal goings-on in his establishment recently.”

“Has he heard of Hubert Martin?”

“You know, I didn't ask him that. Sometimes I find that it's better to keep some things close to your chest, especially when you don't trust the other fellow fully. I just asked for a full oral report from him – it's been a while since he's checked in with me. And you know, he said he didn't have anything for me. An opportunistic thief who didn't know when to keep his mouth shut – that's the only arrest that we've made from his information in quite some time. So I implied that perhaps things were getting too busy at his establishment, and perhaps he needed another agent there to help keep an eye on things. I've never seen him look so furious – looked as though he would have punched me. He's either sleeping on the job or playing me false. Sure wish that I knew which one it is.”

“Are you going to send another agent?”

“Oh yes. If for no other reason than to see him squirm. Ha, I'll alternate between agents that he knows and ones that he doesn't. That will keep him guessing,” said Javert with satisfaction.

“So you think he has something to do with this case?”

“I have no idea. After all, the murder didn't take place anywhere near here. It's possible he knows nothing about it, or that Martin was never here. But the way he's gone silent doesn't speak well for him in general. And it may be nothing, but he subscribes to the  Moniteur. Leaves it around for his customers to read. Well, the early in the day customers. I feigned interest in an article about the latest on cholera in yesterday's copy, and asked him to let me have it. Despite the man's overall unpleasantness, he's polite enough, and told me I was welcome to it.” Javert patted his chest, where presumably the paper had been stashed.

They split up again shortly after, Javert heading for the Île de la Cité and Valjean heading for Rue de l'Homme Armé. Valjean pushed the remainder of the loaf of bread onto Javert, insisting that he eat it for lunch.

***

Later that day, before heading out to visit Marius, Valjean made arrangements for dinner that night.  Toussaint made no remarks when he said that he would be inviting over a friend, beyond simple acknowledgement. She agreed to make everything ready for a simple dinner with great aplomb and no further fuss. She did not complain, despite the fact that she had already done the shopping for their normal household needs.

Cosette, on the other hand, was very excited. She pressed and pressed for more details about Valjean's friend. He demurred, saying that she would get to meet him shortly.  She worried and fussed, saying that she was utterly unfamiliar with entertaining guests.  It had not been a topic taught at the convent school, nor did she have a chance to learn after leaving the convent.  Valjean tried to reassure her:  he doubted that Javert would mind any irregularities, but truth be told, the formalities of the dinner were the least of his worries.  

To say that he was anxious about this meeting was an understatement. If it did not go well, he risked losing the only two living people he held dear. What if Javert let something slip, even just his true name, and Cosette realized some secret of his past? He could lose her entirely. What if she sensed what lay between them, and was horrified? If she demanded it, would he be able to let go of Javert? For her, he would have to, and hope that she could forgive him afterwards. Bleak thoughts surrounded him. A dozen times he was tempted to simply call the whole thing off, to invent some kind of excuse. But he would see this through.

Eventually his waiting was over: Javert was punctual and knocked on the door at 6 o'clock.

Valjean ushered him inside with a warm glance, and took his hat. Javert was wearing what must have been his best clothing for the occasion, and Valjean briefly wondered if his friend was as nervous as he was. He dismissed the thought. Javert seemed so self-possessed.

“Euphrasie, please meet my particular friend, Javert. Javert, this is my daughter, Euphrasie – better known as Cosette.”

Javert bowed and Cosette smiled.

“Please, don't stand on ceremony. Dinner is nearly ready.” This was evident, as the room they stood in doubled as the dining room. Valjean noticed Javert taking in his surroundings quietly. It was as if the man was noting down every detail.

Toussaint had set the table and was busy bringing over food. She had impulsively moved the silver candlesticks that were the nicest things Valjean owned to the center of the table, where the candles in them gave off a cheerful light. She placed down a pot of stew, returning to the kitchen for a large plate of bread and cheese.

The odd trio made their way to the table. “My father says that you don't especially care for meat, so we made a vegetable stew,” said Cosette as they sat down in the simple straw-bottomed chairs. A vegetable stew it may have been, but Valjean would not miss this chance to feed Javert heartily, and it was rich with potatoes, carrots, and peas. Valjean quietly served it out into their bowls, and passed around the bread. He was still on edge, and keeping his hands busy helped.

“Monsieur Javert, you wouldn't believe how reticent my father is. Or perhaps maybe you would?” Cosette asked as an aside. “Anyway, he will not tell me how you two met.”

After a brief pause, as if to collect himself, Javert started out, “I was a business associate with your father, many years ago, in a town called -”

“I'm sure Cosette doesn't want to hear about ancient history!” quickly cut in Valjean.

“Of course I do. That's why I asked,” said Cosette.

Javert looked quickly from one to the other, then continued. “We worked together for several years, and then we lost touch for quite some time. When we ran into one another again, we wanted to get caught up.”

“And what do you do?”

“I'm with the police.”

Cosette looked at Valjean with surprise. “I had no idea that Papa had anything to do with the police.”

“I don't, really,” he replied hastily.

“More of your mysteries,” she said.

Valjean glanced helplessly at Javert.

“Papa will have his mysteries,” Cosette continued cheerfully. “There's nothing that can be done about it.”

“Yes, so I have always understood,” agreed Javert.

“You are used to his ways, then?”

“Well enough.”

“There you have it then.” She paused. “Tell me about your work. Is it exciting? Is it dreadful?”

Javert sighed. “I don't know what to tell you. It's exhausting and probably less exciting than whatever you are imagining. I am always on hand to see the worst of human nature, and half the time that's just my esteemed colleagues.”

“Do you meet a lot of criminals?”

“More than my fair share, certainly.”

“I saw the chain gang pass by on their way out of town one morning, a few months ago. It was the most awful sight you can imagine,” she said with a shudder.

“It's a hard sight, if you aren't used to it,” said Javert. He shot a quick look at Valjean that the latter chose to interpret as conciliatory.

“How anyone could get used to such a thing -” said Cosette, shaking her head.

Valjean's hands shook slightly where he had hidden them under the table – he felt drained of all breath. His heart raced.  An old instinct inside him told him to run.  

“Forgive me, mademoiselle, I'm afraid I'm less genteel company than you must be used to. I was a prison guard by your age, not a gentleman like your father.”

Cosette replied, “No, not at all, don’t apologize.  I'm afraid I'm so unused to any company at all. We live a very quiet life.” She thought for another moment. “Do you know any murderers?”

“Cosette!” Valjean exclaimed.  He wasn’t sure whether to laugh or cry at her curiosity and innocent questioning.  At least they were off the topic of chain gangs.  How would he get through the evening in one piece, at this rate…

Javert's laugh was nearly silent. “It's fine. I don't routinely associate with murderers, no. But I hope to acquaint myself with another one soon. I was just telling your father about the case that I'm working on.” He reviewed the relevant details, leaving out Valjean's role in the events, an omission for which the older man was deeply grateful.

“It sounds horrible,” said Cosette, who far from being horrified, sounded fascinated instead.

“That reminds me, though,” said Valjean. “The newspaper that you told me about. Did it match the paper that was used for the wadding of the gun?”

“They are an exact match for paper type!” Javert said with more excitement. “Which, I'm afraid, proves nothing, but it's another coincidence, if nothing else.”

Eventually, Valjean tried to divert Cosette from these minefields. He had been too nervous to eat, but once Cosette and Javert settled down into other topics, he was able to relax enough to start eating his stew.  They spoke of books and music, with Cosette telling Javert all about some novels that he simply must read. Valjean refilled everyone's bowls in turn, and gradually calmed down. This was fine. He could do this. He passed the bread to Cosette, on his right, and laughed at some little remark of hers.

* * *

The evening wound to a close, and Javert made his excuses and left. He bowed deeply to Cosette and the look he gave Valjean made him deeply regret that he could not in decency ask the man to stay the night.

Cosette settled down into an armchair and looked thoughtful for a moment. She said, “I liked your friend Javert.”

Valjean said nothing, but his smile was beaming.

“Papa? Can I tell you a story?” Cosette asked the question more quietly, and with a note of hesitation that was not characteristic of her.

“Of course.”

“When we lived in the convent, I had friends, you know. You didn't get to spend time with them, because you were always off in your little garden hut. For years, I had a best friend, Octavie. She had wonderfully curly black hair and a gift for making everyone laugh. But when I was fourteen, the last year that we were there, things changed. Octavie made another friend, Margot. Margot was the fastest of all the girls when playing in the garden, and tall. Margot and Octavie soon became inseparable. I was jealous at first, wishing that I could still be Octavie's best friend, even though we were still friendly. But I realized, nevermind how, that she and Margot had a different kind of love, something rather like what I have with Marius. Something that I'm sure that the sisters would have frowned upon. I realized that I couldn't be everything to her, and I was glad that she was happy. Once I understood, I always thought it was a lovely thing.”

Valjean was taken aback. He was not expecting any story of Cosette's to go in this direction. “That's a lovely story, Cosette.” He needed to sit down. He was not ready to be having this conversation with her. But, come to think of it, he realized that she was not asking him to have a conversation with her at all. She had shared her piece, and seemed content to let things lie.

Cosette yawned and said good night, retiring to her bedroom. Valjean was left alone with his emotions swirling.

Though unexpected, Cosette's meaning had been entirely clear. He had unexpectedly received a pardon, and a blessing; not for the first time in his life. The thought buoyed him up despite the later pang of loneliness when he climbed into his empty bed.

Note on the use of the word "friend" in this fic: I've done some reading on LGBT history over the years, and I think that "friend" is a period-appropriate term which would have been used for a same-sex partner. I would certainly not use the same terminology in a modern story. "Friend" is now only used by that weird homophobic aunt who's only going to disown you anyway; don't be that aunt.

Javert had a tendency to work late, sometimes into the night. This frustrated Valjean, but there was little he could do about it. He knew how stubborn his friend was, and how seriously he took his responsibilities.  As he left to visit Javert the next evening, Valjean had been even more embarrassed making his excuses to Cosette now that she undoubtedly knew where he was going.

“Thank you for inviting me to dinner last night,” Javert said; adding, “Your home isn’t what I would have guessed.”

“You were picturing some kind of gothic grotto, perhaps?”

Javert laughed.  “I remember how the rumors flew about you in Montreuil, but that was never one that I believed.”

“Then what do you mean?”

“Just that … your home is clean and orderly, but … I know you can afford much better.  You and Cosette live so simply.”

“Ah.  We don’t need anything better - especially not me.  I’m saving the money in a trust for Cosette.”

“You were always thrifty for an ex-con.  Half of my agents will spend their salary the moment they get it.  If they didn’t live in the dormitories Vidocq established, they would risk being turned out on the street.”

“Enough of that,” said Valjean impatiently.  “What did you think of Cosette?”

Javert laughed slightly at his manner.  “She’s a perfectly charming girl.  I admit, I had been worried, but I can see that you did a good job with raising her.”

Valjean beamed. “You should hear her play the piano.  Her voice is lovely.”

“No doubt.”  But then Javert’s eyes narrowed slightly.  “I didn’t see a piano.”

“Oh, we don’t have one right now.  She learned to play in the convent, and we had a piano at the last place where we lived.”

“I see.”

“I would like to see about getting her one, but I’m not sure if the stairways would accommodate it.  Perhaps I will take some measurements.”  Wanting to change the subject, Valjean said “I wish that we could spend more time together during the day.”

“Come by the offices at noon, then. I'm due a short break for lunch. We can go to a cafe, see a little daylight.”

Valjean reluctantly agreed. He had hoped for more time with Javert to himself, without spending more time in the offices of the Sûreté.  But he would have to accept this for now.

***

Their first such midday rendezvous found Javert in a bad mood.  As soon as they passed through the front doors of the Sûreté offices and into the sunlight, Javert began his complaints.

“I've been going through the list of agents in my head who I can assign to work at Lefèvre's. It's a problem. Would you believe that I think I've lost another two agents? I haven't heard any word from two of my men in several days, when they should have been reporting to me. I'm beginning to wonder what Vidocq saw in any of them. Our little crew is down to 19, not counting you, of course. Even I hadn't expected that level of disloyalty.”

Valjean found himself looking for something to say in defense of the agents, but if he were honest, his heart wasn't in it. He was resentful on Javert's behalf. “Sounds hard.”

“Yes, I can make very little headway in this case myself since I'm too well known at Lefèvre's. What little I can do to disguise myself wouldn't be enough. And I have so little reliable help. I'm getting extra pressure to solve this one, too. Since the victim was a newspaperman himself, his death caught the attention of the press. It's become a real thorn in Gisquet's side, and he wants it resolved. The regular police are on the lookout as well, but we know how little we may expect from that quarter with no known witnesses.”

“Is there anyone at Lefèvre's now?”

“Yes, I have someone there keeping an eye on things. Lefèvre knows him. I'm going to switch him out this evening for Cloutier. She's one of our few lady agents, and he has never heard of her. Perhaps she will be able to catch him with his guard down, if he really does have anything to hide.”

“I hadn't realized that there were women in the Sûreté. Seems like a rough job.”

“It is, but surely you don't think there are no rough women out there. Vidocq recruited Cloutier from Les Madelonettes. She was a career thief. I honestly don't trust her at all, but I can't prove that she's ever played the Sûreté false.”

“Best wishes, then. When do you think you will be free tonight? Would you like for me to come over then?”

“Sure, let us say eight?”

Valjean nodded his agreement.

“By the way, I have something for you.” Javert dug into a small coat pocket. “I had a copy of my apartment key made so that you won't have to wait outside in the hallway if I'm ever detained for any reason.”

Valjean found the gesture deeply touching, and he pocketed the key happily. “Thank you.”  When had Javert had this key made, and how long had he been planning to do so? 

***

When Valjean arrived at Javert's apartment that evening, he still knocked, despite having the key at hand. Javert was home and greeted him with a kiss.

Valjean noticed something out of the ordinary on the small desk when he came in – a length of rope, neatly tied but clearly long. His heart began to race.  No, surely not. He has been doing so well. Hasn't he? And surely he wouldn't – he wouldn't let me see it if that's what it was. 

“Javert? What is this rope about?” Valjean asked, aiming for a hint of reproach in his voice, but feeling fearful.

“I thought it might come in handy.” Javert paused, picked up the rope, and turned it over in his hands. He did not look at Valjean. “Isaac used to like to tie me up, sometimes.”

“Javert! You know that I would never do that to you?” Valjean remembered with horror Coco's words about Isaac. What had he, Valjean, done to make Javert think that he would do such a thing? Did he think, somehow, that Valjean still sought revenge for their history?

“Fine,” said Javert with a light growl. “I like it. I like to be tied up, sometimes.”

Valjean struggled for a response, landing only on “But why?”

“Why does a horse walk on four legs and a man on two? I don't know, Valjean. I bet you would be good at it, though. No, don't be modest. I've seen your handiwork before.”

Valjean remained silent, clearly at a loss for words.

“Anyway, just consider it, would you?” Javert said, idly running his hands over coarse hemp before placing the bundle of rope down again. “I'm not sure what you have going on in that mind of yours, but it really isn't so bad.”

Valjean was still concerned for his friend's wellbeing. When the evening grew later, he hooked his arm around Javert's waist and took him to bed, kissing him slowly. He drew out the process of undressing Javert, who allowed it and made no attempt to hurry him up. Valjean kissed and sucked at his throat as it was revealed, enjoying Javert's breathy sighs. He tugged at Javert's shirt, unsuccessfully until the man sat up and allowed it to be removed. Valjean returned to Javert's throat, quickly moving down to the man's collarbone and pinning Javert down with his hands. Javert's eyes flashed wide for a moment but he said nothing.

“Easy, easy,” Valjean whispered, running his hands through the hair on Javert's chest. He rubbed the other man's nipples in the way he had learned he liked, and Javert moved into the touch. His kisses trailed aimlessly up and down Javert's torso.

He had the strong impression that Javert would let him do whatever he wanted. Valjean gathered his nerves and did something he had not yet tried. He hesitantly kissed at Javert's cock. It was not bad, and he liked the pleased sound Javert had made. He tried again, lingering and with his lips parted.

“You tease,” Javert said breathlessly.

Perhaps it was better to just plunge in. He sucked as much as he could into his mouth. Javert moaned and ran a hand through Valjean's hair. Valjean tried to remember what Javert had done to give him so much pleasure this way, so that he could replicate it. He wasn't sure if he was doing it right but Javert was appreciative. He gripped Javert’s hips tightly.  He continued to lick, suck, finding ways to breathe as Javert softly called his name. Soon Javert tugged on his hair, and he looked up inquiringly.

“Where do you want me to finish?” Javert asked, voice hoarse and barely more than a growl.

Valjean wondered if Javert took a special joy in embarrassing him, or if it was just some unfortunate byproduct. He felt his cheeks burning hotter as he answered, “Why not in my mouth? I wouldn't mind trying it.”

He leaned back down and took Javert's cock back into his mouth. Javert was true to his word and it did not last much longer. Valjean found the taste bearable, and Javert's grateful kisses afterwards moreso. He allowed Javert to return the favor. When they were both worn out and spent, they lay together with Javert's arm and leg thrown possessively over Valjean.

After a quiet moment, Javert squeezed Valjean's arm and said, “You've really been opening up for me. I wasn't sure you would like all of this.”

Valjean thought about that for a moment, and replied “Of course I do. … I think that I love you.”

Javert stiffened momentarily, eyes wide with surprise.  Finally, he replied “I think I may love you, too.”

Joy suffused Valjean’s whole body, and he felt as though he were floating.  He hadn’t realized how much every fiber of his being was waiting on Javert’s answer until he had it.  He burrowed happily into Javert's grip.

Javert may not have understood the reasoning behind Valjean’s request, but he was true to his word.  On his next day off, they found their way to the small print shop run by Jeanne Xavier.  It was in a quiet street, and the front door was framed with a rather cheerful pot of red geraniums on each side.  Javert knocked, and a small white-haired woman who appeared to be in her seventies answered the door.  

“Alexandre!” she cried, using Javert’s given name.  “Come inside.”  She showed them into a rather large room with a desk in the near corner, but which was dominated by printing and bookbinding equipment.  Paper lined all available surfaces.  She was the only person there.

“How have you been keeping?  It’s been ages since I have seen you.”

“I’m well.  Staying occupied with the police, as always.”  Valjean saw that although they were friendly with one another, and there was a touch of real care in their voices, they did not seem to be on intimate terms. 

“Where are my manners?” Madame Xavier said, recollecting herself.  “Alexandre, who is this gentleman?”

“Madame, this is my friend, Jean Valjean. Valjean, Madame Jeanne Xavier.”

The lady started, and her look quickly turned to fury. “I don't know what's gotten into you, Monsieur Clever Inspector. Is that funny to you?” She struck him on the cheek, not hard, but shocking. Valjean's cheek smarted in sympathy as an ancient, long-lost memory came back to him of himself as a young boy caught out in a lie. “I haven't seen you in months, and you come back here, thinking you will make a joke about the Valjeans.”

“I...” started Javert, clearly at a loss. “You know the family?”

 Perhaps I shouldn't have been so mysterious,  thought Valjean.

“‘You know the family;’ you impudent pup, with your airs -”

“Madame,” Valjean started, looking closely. Her eyes, her frame, her cheekbones, the way she stood when she was scolding Javert... look for what the years hadn't touched. “...Jeanne, Javert isn't mocking you.”

“Oh, stop it with that ‘Javert’ nonsense.”

“Jeanne, it's me, Jean - don't you recognize me?” He slipped into using the familiar  tu form. She stared for a second at him, recognition growing but disbelief coming along for the ride.

“...No,” said Javert. “Surely you cannot know each other?”

After a moment in which it appeared neither would answer, Jeanne began, “Alexandre, this is my baby brother Jean. I raised him. I never thought I would see him again -” and that admission had been too much, and she began to cry.

“Nor I you,” said Valjean, voice cracking, pulling her into a hug. “Jeanne, I tried to find you. I sent word looking for you and the children, as soon as I got out of prison -” Her tears became too much for him, and he wept too.

“Hush, Jean,” she said soothingly. And then, in the same tone of voice, “You damn idiot, why did you punch the window?”

Javert had been standing in stunned silence, watching their tearful reunion, but he finally chimed in with some amusement.  “Our Valjean has never been good at self-preservation.”

“‘Our Valjean’ is it?” she said with more curiosity now than accusation.

“Certainly.  He’s my particular friend,” replied Javert.  “You must believe me, madame, I had no idea that you two were related.   You, on the other hand…” he said, turning on Valjean.

He looked sheepish.  “I suspected.  There’s a real resemblance between mother and son, plus what you told me of her history … But you must admit that it seems wildly unlikely.  I thought that you could make the introduction, and then we could see.”

“I’m so glad that you did,” Jeanne said.  “I have always wondered what became of you.  Do you live in Paris?  Do you have a family of your own now?”  

“I do live in Paris, with my daughter.”

“You have a daughter?!” she said excitedly.  “You were always so good with the children, but I never thought that you would settle down and have children of your own.  You didn’t seem interested.”

“She’s adopted.  But she’s the light of my life.”  

“You know, that doesn’t really surprise me.  That reminds me!  There’s something I would have wanted to tell you, had I ever thought that I would see you again:  I named young Jeannot after you.  Has Alexandre introduced you to him yet?”

The words drew more tears from Valjean.  He had no other response.  There was an ill-timed rap on the door.  Jeanne went to open it, greeting her customer and asking him to wait a moment.  

“But come now, Jean, we have so much to catch up on. Come back tonight?  After I close down the shop, I want to hear everything.”

Valjean nodded his assent, not trusting his voice.  He felt laid bare in front of this newcomer, and allowed Javert to show him to the door with a hand on his lower back.  

“Until tonight, Jeanne,” he finally said on their way out.

“You sly old fox,” Javert said when they were back out on the street, slapping Valjean’s shoulder.  “How you could keep such a thing from me…  So then, that would make Jeannot your nephew!  Can I please be there when you tell him?”

“It does,” said Valjean, ignoring Javert’s request.  “It’s a strange thing.  I barely remember my older nieces and nephews, and I don’t have the slightest idea of what kind of people they grew up to be.  Or…if…they grew up.” He continued through the wave of pain and guilt.  “After I got out of the  bagne, I tried to find them but it was as if they had disappeared.”

“I know.”

“How do you -”

“I was only doing my due diligence,” said Javert defensively.  Valjean’s glare spurred him on. “When you were ‘Monsieur Madeleine’ I looked into the inquiries you were making into some obscure peasants in Brie.  You have to admit it looks pretty suspicious, for one who already had his suspicions.”

“It wouldn’t have been suspicious if you weren’t already looking into my personal affairs!  How did you find out, anyway?”

“I have my sources,” Javert shrugged.

“Damn that clerk.” But Valjean didn’t want to get into an argument, so he tamped down his annoyance.  And anyway, it had been long ago, and was what he would have expected of Javert at the time.  

They continued to discuss Jeannot and this new development as they strolled through the Luxembourg Gardens together.  It was rare to have a full day together, and Valjean wanted to make the most of their time.  They saw other couples walking around, some completely lost in one another, and Valjean felt a pang of regret that they must not let their feelings show in public. As they walked, he thought idly about what it would be like to walk arm in arm with Javert, but this was not something he dared do; certainly not in a respectable area in the daylight.

That evening, Valjean went alone to a small restaurant to talk with Jeanne.  There was so much that they had to talk about, and Javert would only be in the way.  Besides, there was some part of him that wanted to control the narrative about him and Javert.  Jeanne knew about his original crime, of course, and clearly did not hate him for it, but she didn’t know about the others, or the painful life spent on the run.  He wanted her to hear it from him, and not from the police officer who had haunted him, as much as he now loved the man.  

The wine with dinner loosened both of their tongues, and he talked long into the night with this woman whom he had thought lost forever.  Perhaps it was just the years affecting his memory, but Valjean could not remember having had open-hearted talks like this with his sister when they had lived together.  To Valjean’s great relief, Jeanne understood and forgave everything.  She was delighted by his story of becoming a beloved small town mayor, and wished fiercely that she could have seen her little brother then.  They parted with the warmest expressions, swearing to one another that they would never allow the other to drift out of their life again.  

***

Valjean had gone straight back to his home after his late evening with his sister.  Although they had not been back in one another’s lives for long, especially not in this new relationship, Valjean found that he missed Javert when he spent the night away from him.  When he saw Javert again the next evening, he felt as though even more time had passed. His natural reticence did not allow him to describe the evening with his sister or their conversation.  However, he was happy to listen to his companion talk.

“I may have a new lead in that murder case, finally,” said Javert as they both settled into his apartment.  He and Valjean had just returned from dinner at a nearby cafe, where Javert had presumably not felt comfortable going over the details of the case with Valjean.  Either that, or even Javert had needed a short break from the case.  “Cloutier got some of the gamblers talking last night. She heard about a man named Guy Desmarais, who had habitually hung around Lefèvre's. Bouillotte was his game, mainly, and he was there almost every night - so our source says anyway. He was a serious gambler, and he was generally well liked there either because or in spite of that. He appeared to have been a gentleman of independent means. No one that Cloutier spoke with can recall having seen him there since around the time the murder occurred. Not that they said as much, but the timing works out.  Some of his friends have been in and out, though - Cloutier wasn’t able to meet any of them last night.”

“Is this the first that you have heard of him?”  Valjean plucked gently at the armchair he sat in.  He sometimes tired of hearing Javert speak of work, but he had to admit that this case interested him in spite of himself.  Having seen the beginning, he supposed he wanted to see the ending.

“Yes. His name hadn't come up in any of the previous reports that I've gotten from my agents, but that would make sense if he hasn't been around Lefèvre's since the murder.”

“Hm, and you think he may have been involved?”

“Hard to say. I really don't have anything else to go on at the moment, though. It's possible that his disappearance is a complete coincidence – perhaps he has a wife at home who has finally laid down the law about his gambling. Perhaps he was just a witness to a disturbance there at Lefèvre's and has sought out some more peaceful place to be parted from his money.”

“He wasn't successful?”

“Oh you know, games of chance. He won some, he lost some. I got the impression that he was a good sport, and the charismatic sort. Popular in those circles. That's probably the only reason that his going missing was noticed.  People talking about the good days with Desmarais, and that sort of thing.  He is our best suspect now, but unfortunately he’s going to be hard to find,” Javert continued.  “Cloutier wasn't able to get a home address for Desmarais. I'll have my remaining agents look for him. Won't help if he's staying close to home, but perhaps he can be found working the tables somewhere else. We will get started tomorrow night.”

“Are you going out to look for him yourself?”  With Javert’s present command so hard on him, Valjean wished that he would occasionally be better at delegating to his agents.

“If I can manage it.  I’ve barely had time for patrolling the streets at all lately.  I feel like a horse left in the stall all day.”

Valjean’s heart sank.  He knew that Javert would probably let him go along if he wanted to, but that was not the point.  He would simply have to do his best to ensure that Javert took some time off tonight, he thought, picking up the book they were working their way through. 

The next day, Valjean accompanied him to the Sûreté offices. Javert rounded up all the agents who could be called in on short notice. Some were arriving to give their reports from the previous night, others Javert had pulled from the barracks.  They were gathered in the open guard room on the ground floor to receive their instructions. 

Javert looked over the assembled group, roughly fifteen all told, assessingly.  He sized them up. When he spoke, it was with an air of authority.

“I'm going to keep this short. I don't want to lie to you or sugarcoat anything. You can look around you and see how many of your former colleagues have been flying the coop. I need to be able to rely on all of you more than ever.  I’m calling you off of your general surveillance tasks, and asking you all to help find a suspect for me.  If you can continue your ordinary work while doing so, by all means, do.  Use your discretion; those of you who can.

“We are looking for a man named Guy Desmarais - a gambler. We weren't able to get a full description of him, but he's apparently a friendly, well-off gentleman whose pockets are deep enough to swallow some real losses -”

“Cheers!” called out one of the agents.

Javert rolled his eyes. “Just find Desmarais, and don't give him any hint that we are onto him, okay? I will personally commend any of you who finds him to Allard. Besides, if your loyalty and professional interests aren't enough, I know that most of you are scoundrels at heart. Most of you gamble away all of your spare time and money. If you must do so, why not combine it with the useful?”

There was a quiet question from the gathered group.

“What's that?” called Javert.

“He said, how are we supposed to find him without we don't even have a description?” spoke up a different man.

“Figure it out. I'll be looking for him as well, don't get me wrong, but I've only got one pair of eyes,” snapped Javert. “Well? You are dismissed.”

The agents filed out of the offices, some talking lowly. When all but Valjean had gone, Javert stretched happily. “Taking care of them en masse like that will be a real load off of me today. I actually will have a chance to go look for that Desmarais character myself. But I don’t suppose he will be possible to find during the day.  Will you come along this evening?”

“I suppose I will.” Valjean was finding that his boundaries were eroding around his service or lack thereof with the police. He told himself that Javert was a higher profile target than ever as head of the Sûreté, and was at high risk working undercover. He did not fully trust Javert to take precautions to protect his own life, either. But in truth he knew that he was interested in the potential adventure for its own sake.  He had gotten himself drawn into this new tale, after having once told himself that he just wanted to find out how the other case would end and to see it to its conclusion. 

“Excellent. We are unlikely to be able to find anything out early in the day. In the meantime, though, I have to go through these arrest reports, and listen to the reports of thefts that need to be investigated.”

Valjean nodded. “Shall we say 5 o'clock then?”

“Right. Be here. Can you play Bouillotte?”

“Not at all.”

“You’ll watch me, then. I'm no expert but I've had to learn enough to bluff my way through undercover work.”

***

By the time that Valjean returned at five, Javert had transformed himself as much as possible. He wore short, dark brown hair, and clothing apparently cut to make himself look heavier than he actually was. He appeared to have not shaved in a few days and the ghost of a beard was beginning to show on his face.  Valjean had no such need to disguise himself, but he had taken care to find the least remarkable clothing possible.

Valjean had never been out gambling before. Not only was it the kind of activity where he would have feared discovery (and the irony of what he was now doing fully occurred to him), but it simply didn't appeal to him. There was a brief period of his life in the  bagne  during which he had played cards with other prisoners to pass the time, after the initial shock had worn off and before his deep resentment and sense of dissociation had set in. He hadn't taken to it, and the memories of that time made him no more eager to try again now.  The idea of Inspector Javert being much better of a gambler than even him seemed comical to Valjean. He would probably find out soon enough, he supposed.

Their first stop was a legal, licensed gambling house. A waiter greeted them with glasses of cheap champagne as they sat down, compliments of the house. Candelabras lit the room cheerfully, and light flashed off the metal accents on the furniture. A loud roulette table dominated half of the room, with smaller card tables scattered throughout the remaining space. A large bar stood in the back. Private rooms adjoined the main one in which they stood.

Javert approached a waiter. “Has my friend Guy Desmarais arrived yet? He said he would try to book one of the private rooms for us.”

“I don't know of anyone by that name, no.”

“Thank you. We will wait for him out here.”

Shifting his attention to Valjean, he quietly said “You chat up the bar, try and be subtle about it. I'm going to play a few hands and see what I can find out.” He walked off, leaving Valjean alone and feeling distinctly out of place.

At the bar, several other men were gathered. Valjean ordered a glass of wine as he thought about how to go about getting information from his fellow drinkers. This task did not exactly play to his strengths. He introduced himself to the man next to him (not the one he was looking for, but one can only hope for so much luck).

“This is your first time here?  You're missing out. On Wednesdays and Fridays, the ladies are allowed to come in and play. It gets so crowded in here, and the view's a lot better, if you know what I mean.”

“Maybe I should come back. Are most of these folks here habitually?” asked Valjean.

“Oh, it depends. The smart ones don't come all that often, you know? I imagine some are here every night. I'm just here to keep an eye on my friend over there. I keep him out of trouble sometimes.”

“As a matter of fact, I'm waiting on a friend as well. Guy Desmarais – do you know him?”

“Nope, never heard of him.”

Valjean wondered how many times he could repeat this conversation before it began to become suspicious, and decided that the answer was probably zero. He hoped that Javert was having better luck. He didn't have to wait long before Javert stalked up to the bar.

“My luck is running bad tonight. Let's head out,” Javert said. As they went back out into the evening air, Javert added, “Did you find anything out?”

“No.”

“Me neither, and I can't afford to keep playing at a posh place like that, biding my time. Come, I know of a public house that has an illegal table or two.”

“Does this come out of your own money?”

“Of course; the police don't pay my gambling bills. And it's a good thing, too. You have no idea what kind of tabs those agents of mine can rack up.” Javert picked up the pace. “At our next stop, I'll teach you how to play. It will be capital – everyone will want to play with the new man.”  Javert smiled widely.  Whether it was with hope of finding a lead on the mysterious Desmarais, or anticipating teaching Valjean to play, Valjean couldn’t guess.

***

At the next public house, they were shown to the back room after speaking with the waiter. Thick, heavy curtains concealed them from the main room. There were two: both, as luck or Javert's memory would have it, hosting Bouillotte players. Both were already full at four players each. They watched for a moment. Since tonight interest exceeded space, players rotated in and out of the games.

Valjean stood self-consciously by Javert’s side, watching for a moment until a new round was about to start.

Javert spoke up.  “Good evening. I was hoping to teach my friend Valjean here how to play. Any chance he could have a turn soon?”

The seated men laughed, one slapping the table and saying, “Of course, bring him over here. Jacques was just getting up.”

Valjean traded places with Jacques, and Javert moved behind him and placed a hand briefly, soothingly, on his shoulder. Perhaps it was all he would allow himself here. Perhaps he didn't yet know how much his touch had come to calm Valjean. 

Valjean bought some chips from the dealer, and paid his ante, corresponding to a sou.  His newly acquired spot was on the dealer’s left, so Valjean watched as his opponents placed their blind bets.  The player one right of the dealer declined to bet, and the dealer began to deal out the cards.  He handed Valjean his third card, and then placed a final card, the eight of spades, face up in the center of the table.

“That one in the middle is called the  retourné,  ” said Javert, leaning down slightly.  “You are looking for a set of three or four.  Three in your hand, plus the  retourné, is best, then three in your hand.  Next is two in your hand, plus the  retourné. Got it?”

“Yes.”  Valjean picked up his cards and looked at them.  King and two eights.  

“Remember, Valjean, don’t give any sign of what’s in your hand.”

The betting went around the table, reaching Valjean.  “What is it worth to you to stay in?” asked Javert.

“Hey, that’s not fair, don’t coach him,” protested Valjean’s neighbor.  

“Sorry, gentlemen, I won’t let you pluck my friend.  You have the advantage and you know it.  I’m merely explaining the rules to him.”

Valjean pushed three chips in, matching the other men’s bet.  His neighbor had folded.  The man to the right of the dealer declined to bet again, and all the players laid out their hands.  One of Valjean’s opponents laid out three nines.  

Speaking lowly, only to Valjean, Javert said “He wins.  The three all in his hand beat out your  Brélan Favori. ”

The man gathered the pot to himself.  The dealer accepted the cards as they were returned to him, and began shuffling in preparation for the next hand.  

Blind bets went around, again not reaching Valjean.  This time, he was dealt a queen and two nines.  Looking to the  retourné, he saw another nine.  He was starting to understand the game, and wanted to take a risk.  When it came to be his turn to bet, he raised the betting two sou chips. In the next round around the table, two of his opponents folded, and the other raised the bet further.  Valjean decided to stay in.  He and his adversary laid down their cards.  The other man had been bluffing, and had nothing.  

As he took the pot, Javert commented, “That was bold of you.”

The next round of blind betting started.  This time, the man on Valjean’s left doubled the pot.  Valjean fingered his chips uncertainly and looked to Javert. 

“Now you have to make up your mind.  If you choose to double the pot - straddle - you will be the last one to make up your mind about betting later.  That can give you an advantage, when it comes to seeing what your opponents are going to do.  Plus if they all pass, you will automatically win.”  

“And if I don’t?”

“Come on with it!” interjected one of the other players.

“Shut up, Léo, he’s new,” said Valjean’s neighbor.

“If you don’t, then the dealer will pass out the cards,” answered Javert, pinching his nose in annoyance.

Valjean counted out and pushed in a pile of chips.  This time, he was dealt three queens.  He bet aggressively, and won the hand.  

While Valjean played, Javert chattered away, waiting for the names of the other men to float up in conversation like a snake lying in wait for a mouse.  He spoke seemingly indiscriminately to Valjean and his fellow players.  He had earlier given Valjean strict instructions to follow his lead and not ask after the man they were looking for.

Valjean began to feel quite comfortable with the game, and luck seemed to be on his side.  When a spot opened up at the other table, and the men playing called for Javert to fill it, Valjean felt as though he could easily keep playing on his own.  He answered Javert’s inquiring look with a nod, and Javert took off to play at the other table. It was for the best, since they had heard the names of all the men at the table, and none of them were Guy Desmarais.  Of course, it was possible that he was going by another name.  

Valjean decided to wait for Javert to return to him, in order to give the inspector enough time to find the names of all the players at the other table.  His luck held, and he had amassed a considerable pile of chips by the time Javert returned and placed a large hand on his shoulder.  For a moment he glanced up with such feeling that he feared anyone watching would be able to see what Javert was to him.  Then it was time to focus again.  He cashed out with the dealer, tipping the man, and left with Javert.  

“You’re a lucky one.  Is it because you don’t fear to lose, I wonder?”  Javert said, as they made their way into the summer night.

“Do you play cards very often?” asked Valjean. 

“No, not at all, except when work demands it.  I only learned to play Bouillotte with Vidocq when we were pursuing a thief who particularly liked cards.  It’s a useful skill to have if you have to spend much time in these sorts of public houses, gathering information.”

“I assume you would have told me by now if you had found your man?”

“Correct.  Tonight was a complete bust.”

“I wouldn’t say it was a  complete bust,” said Valjean, briefly linking his arm with Javert’s, then dropping it shyly.  


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert had drunk rather more than was usual for him while they were out playing cards.  He was in an animated mood, bemoaning the fact that they hadn’t found the man they were looking for.

“I suppose I’m not surprised.  It would have been an incredible stroke of luck to run into Guy Desmarais on our first night looking for him.  Someone had a lucky night, at least,” he said, winking at Valjean.  

“I know.  I feel terrible about taking their money, though, when I don’t need it.”

“That is how the game is played, Valjean.  Thank goodness you didn’t go off on some tangent at the public house about refusing to take their money.”

“What if those men had families to support, though?”

“Then they shouldn’t be risking their wages that way.”

Valjean felt himself getting angry, and thought that he shouldn’t have brought up the topic.  Javert still had that rigid, inflexible streak: Valjean had once thought it was nearly all there was to the man.  It stood out less prominently to him now, but every so often it caught his attention and he couldn’t look past it.  For all the happiness that he felt with Javert, there were things that they tip-toed around.  Perhaps it was  why he was able to feel happiness with Javert.  How much could their new relationship withstand, after all?  Valjean wasn’t willing to test the limits yet.

“What do you think, Jean?  Would you try your luck again tomorrow night?  You know how much I need more trustworthy men on this case.”

“Javert … I’ve told you how I feel about this.  About being involved in your cases.”

“A bit late - you are already involved.  Besides, I think you like the excitement.” 

“I don’t like seeing harm come to anyone.”

“They are criminals.”

Valjean took a deep breath and reminded himself that he loved Javert.  He exhaled harshly, not fully soothed.  He realized that his fists were clenched tight, and released them with an effort.

Javert, watching him and sighing deeply, said “Look, I’m sorry, all right?”

Valjean was not fully appeased, and in his agitation he considered leaving for the night.  He wanted to.  Javert stood up and approached him.  They looked one another in the eyes, and Javert kissed him rather hesitantly.  Javert was trying, he reminded himself.  He would stay.  

When they went to bed that night, and Valjean was undressing, Javert took the odd step of lighting two additional candles.  The room brightened somewhat.  

“Will you let me look at you?” Javert asked.  

“Yes,” Valjean answered, although he didn’t understand.  He sat down on the bed, beginning to feel rather cold and exposed.  When he thought about his appearance at all, Valjean considered himself quite unattractive, worn rough by time and a hard life. He was still not sure why Javert seemed to take so much enjoyment in looking at him.  Javert had always watched him, he remembered, and he found himself wondering, not for the first time, when it was that Javert had first begun to think of him like  this.  

But perhaps tonight Javert was thinking about the past as well. Javert had joined him sitting on the bed, approaching from the other side.  He followed Javert’s gaze, to where the letters TP, for  travaux forcés à perpétuité, were branded into the back of his shoulder.  Javert had never commented upon these, or any other, of Valjean’s scars.  For this, Valjean was grateful, but he harbored a fear that one day, Javert would surely leave him for a younger man with fewer scars, on the skin and on the inside.  But then again, Javert himself bore scars that Valjean never commented upon.  There was the long scar across his rib cage which Valjean suspected he received the day Isaac was murdered.  There were the other ones, most barely noticeable in the candlelight.  Were they from the war, a desperate struggle with armed criminals, or … Valjean didn’t particularly like to speculate.

Javert leaned over and silently kissed the slightly raised scars forming the letters, and moved over closer to Valjean, where he could see him. There was sadness around his eyes. 

“What’s wrong?” Valjean asked. There was a long pause, during which Valjean wondered exactly how much Javert had had to drink that night.

“Sometimes I forget how differently we must have experienced the world,” Javert finally said.  He traced the branded letters with his fingers.  “These are my fault.”  Valjean twisted around, and in doing so, moved the branded shoulder further from Javert.  “Had I not retrieved you after your escape from the jail at Montreuil-sur-Mer, you would have been free.  No one would have marked your shoulder like this; marked you like property.”

This time it was Valjean’s turn to hesitate.  These were deep currents still between them that they both tacitly avoided.  They knew instinctively that here the waters could tear them apart, and stayed clear.

“You only did your duty,” he said finally.  

“I should have been able to see that  you  do not belong in the  bagne,” Javert spoke flatly.

“What man does think that he belongs in the  bagne?  Besides, you're not the one who branded me.”  Valjean straightened up, with his back to Javert again.  It was hard to meet his eyes right then, and he was afraid of what he might see.  

“Doesn’t matter.  The man who did it was only doing this duty, the same as me.  Doesn’t make it right,” muttered Javert, voice thick.  

Valjean again felt the warmth of Javert’s mouth against his scarred brand, but this time, a moment later, it was joined by the fall of hot, wet tears.  He was startled but did not move.  This depth of feeling was unexpected, and Valjean felt a jumble of emotions in response.  Surprise, affection, even annoyance.  He felt strangely usurped - it was his right to feel upset about his brand, not Javert’s, and he had already done the work of trampling down his feelings about it, so what was there left to speak of?  

“You could have been killed,” Javert said.  “I had my doubts about you since that incident in Arras.  You know, they didn’t tell me the full story at first.  Just that Mayor Madeleine had been identified in court as Jean Valjean, and would I please arrest him?  It came as a shock to me, to be honest.  I had so talked myself into thinking that that other fellow was you.  But it wasn’t until later that I got the full story.  I didn’t know what to think about you, then.  You intrigued me.  I couldn’t understand your motivation.  Why was it so hard for me to see that the generous philanthropist was a real, flesh and bone man, not just a phantom conjured up by a desperate ex-convict?  That they could both exist in you?”

“Nothing good can come of wishing things had gone differently.”

“Do you ever think about how it could have been, though?  If we had just been a little more open with each other -”

“We were different people to each other then, Javert.  Listen to me.  We didn’t understand one another; we didn’t -” Valjean couldn’t bring himself to complete the sentence, not while they were on the edge of this dangerous thing they approached.  

“We didn’t love each other,” Javert finished with a whisper.  He kissed the pale white letters again, and ran a finger gently over a mark left by a lash.  

Valjean felt deeply uncomfortable with this attention to his scars, but perhaps that was fine.  He doubted that Javert was enjoying himself either, and perhaps this was somewhere they needed to be, together.  Regardless, he did not ask Javert to stop.  He gave Javert the quiet space he seemed to need until he was ready to speak again.  Perhaps Valjean was not the only one who gained absolution from their love.  

“That day in June?” began Javert.  “At the Rue de la Chanvrerie?  I couldn’t understand why you would help me.  I truly wanted to die, but it was … really something to be rescued by a man who didn’t have the slightest reason to help me.  Someone who didn’t want anything from me, who I could only hurt, not help.”

“Javert, you’ve helped me a great deal.  My legal status, my appeal for a pardon?  And besides, I don’t need a special reason to prevent your death.  You are one of God’s children and that is enough for me.”

“My heroic knight.”  There was a tiny bit of Javert’s customary irony back in his voice, before his tone became serious again.  “But tell me, Valjean, once and for all.  I have harmed you in the past.  I never wish to again.  Does being with me cause you pain?”

“No, and I wish you wouldn’t think such a thing.  You are dear to me, and I would not want to be without you.”  Valjean turned around, facing Javert directly.  

“I cannot help but remind you of things that you must want to forget,” said Javert.

“Hm.  Perhaps it is strange, but I am old now, and I do not wish to forget what I have been through.  I wish you would trust me when I tell you that I know what pain is.  Now, thanks to you, I am learning what love is.”  He hesitated for a moment, and then embraced Javert.

Javert trembled, leaning against Valjean’s broad, bare chest, and his tears slowly began to fall again.  He cried as quietly as he laughed.  Valjean had never seen Javert show this much emotion.  His earlier anger at Javert had faded away entirely, and the distance between them felt impossibly thin.  Something inside Valjean wanted to cry as well, but the tears would not come.  Perhaps one day they would, but not that evening.  Instead he held Javert until he stilled.

Hey, it’s halfway through! Thanks for reading this far.

I’m having a rough time right now and I’m not sure that I will be able to post every week right away like I have been. I’ll try, but no promises. Except that I promise I’m definitely not abandoning this story and I will see it through eventually <3


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean and Javert resolved to tell Moineau what they had learned about Valjean’s sister the next time they saw him.  The young man had arranged to visit Javert on a late evening, a time that suited them both.  Valjean was already there when he arrived, and greeted him with unfeigned cheerfulness.  He had grown to like the young man, from what he had seen of him.  While the three of them got caught up, Moineau told them about his current work in a comic act at the vaudeville hall, and about his aspirations for acting in a dramatic play.  

“If it’s drama that you are after, then do we have a tale for you.  We went to visit your mother the other day.  Together,” Javert started, then hesitated.  

“I cannot wait to hear where this is going,” said Moineau into the pause.

“I’ll let this one tell you,” Javert said, with a nod to Valjean.  Moineau shifted his gaze expectantly.  

“Jeannot?  I realized after some similarities in biography… and her first name … No, let me start over.”  Valjean was tripping over his words, so he decided to just go for it.  “Your mother is my sister.”  

“...Are you sure?” He looked at Valjean more closely, clearly searching for a resemblance.

“Yes.  She changed her name after both of her marriages, but her maiden name was Valjean.”

“Both of her marriages?  My mother talks so little about her past… So you’re my uncle, then?” Jeannot asked incredulously.  “Sacha!  Did you know this?” he demanded, rounding on Javert.  

“No, I was at least as surprised as you are.  Probably more so.” 

“Well, and do you believe him?”

“I don’t have much of a choice, now, do I?  Both he and Madame Xavier say that it is true.  Listen to your uncle, I suppose.”

Jeannot laughed, shaking his head in wonder.  He began shooting off questions about the Valjeans and their shared past.  Jean Valjean immediately thought about how he would feel if Cosette were asking such questions of Jeanne, and demurred as politely as possible while saying nothing of their past.  Jeannot’s curiosity aside, Valjean was pleased.  He had taken the revelation rather well, all things considered.  

Valjean continued to meet and spend time with his sister.  There were so many years lost between them that at times they felt like strangers to one another, but he wanted to try, and it seemed that she felt the same way.  She wanted to meet Cosette, and although Valjean also wanted that very much, he knew he needed to set some boundaries in place first.  

“You cannot tell her anything of our past.  As far as she knows, I am her real father.”

“Jean, please!  Do you think you are the only one interested in hiding our past?  I loved Monsieur Xavier but there were always so many secrets between us.” Her look became wistful.  “Can you imagine?  Here I was, trying to make sure he knew nothing of my family’s history, and it turns out that he was an ex-convict in violation of his parole this whole time!”

“It must have been painful for you.”  Valjean thought of how much he valued the fact that his own lover knew everything about his past, and needed no explanation.  

“What is past, is past.  It was a good enough marriage,”  Jeanne said philosophically.  “I’ve been meaning to ask: how came you to adopt your girl?”

“It’s a sad story.  Are you sure you want to hear?”

“Jean,” she said, and it was a full statement.  There had been enough pain in their lives that she would not balk now, and he knew it. 

He spoke, the story coming tumbling out of him.  He told her everything he had shied away from during their first conversation in Paris.  He told her of Fantine - a story that he had never been able to bring himself to tell Cosette, even when she asked directly.  He told her of a little girl in Montfermeil, who had won him over so immediately, so unexpectedly.  Jeanne smiled.  

“Do you regret not marrying, and having a child of your own?  Perhaps giving your Cosette a little sister or brother?”

“No.  I could not be more happy than I am with Cosette.”  And Javert, he wanted to add, but he was not sure it was the right time for more truths.  It pained him that he could not tell everyone about this love that had taken hold of him.  But he could not expect that everyone would understand, and perhaps the right time to tell her would come later.  

His mind returned to practicalities.  Madame Xavier’s printing shop was closed on Sundays, and she lived rather close to the church Valjean and Cosette frequented.  “Cosette and I are going to mass next Sunday at the church of Saint-Jacques-du-Haut-Pas.  It would be wonderful if you joined us.”

“It would be my pleasure,” she replied, delicate wrinkles surrounding the brown eyes that Valjean knew from his childhood.

That Sunday, Valjean introduced Madame Xavier to Cosette as her aunt, telling the agreed-upon lie that Jeanne had just recently arrived in Paris.  They took to one another immediately, and from then on, the three often spent Sunday mornings and early afternoons together.

***

In recent days, Valjean had stopped his recreational walks in favor of the practical. His most common morning routine now was to walk Cosette to Marius' house and then back home, then go to the offices at Rue Sainte-Anne to see Javert for lunch. 

Four days after they had gone out gambling, Javert looked up from the desk where he sat as Valjean arrived.  “Excellent news – our man Desmarais has been found. Apparently he has been at the same gambling house for the last few nights, at least. One of my sharper agents got into a long conversation with him, and later confirmed his story with a bartender. Says he's very likable - quick with a joke or a kind word for anyone. I'd like to know what he's doing there. Is he simply a gentleman with no other way of amusing himself, or is he making a living?”

“Ah, you suspect him of cheating?” It was always a relief to Valjean to find Javert in a chatty mood during these midday visits. More often lately he had been glum and temperamental.

“I wonder. If he's really out at the cards as often as I hear that he is, he's likely to run into his fair share of losses. But such a thing doesn't seem to phase him. No one knows the details of his finances, but he's known to be a good sport when losing. I wonder if he could be working with a sort of team. Vidocq has told me about such schemes. If it's true, he must be good to have avoided suspicion and a bad reputation. Unfortunately, I wouldn't recognize any cheating that isn't blatant enough to get him thrown out of any table where he showed himself.” Javert thought for a moment. “Yes. Maybe the best thing to do is to consult with Vidocq. He's been involved in schemes like that in his youth, for God's sake. He will know how to tell. Come on,” he said, suddenly more animated. “I'll show you his new offices.”

On the way out, Javert stopped to tell the clerk that he would be out for the afternoon and to relay any messages to him when he returned.

“We are going to 12 rue Cloche-Perche. It's rather close to where I live – care to walk?”

“Sure.”

By the time they arrived at the newly established Bureau des Renseignements, Valjean remembered that he had originally intended to get Javert to eat with him, but it was too late.

Javert greeted one of the office workers who approached them as they entered, told him that he wanted to speak with the chief, and gave his name.

Javert looked around. “Looks better than the last time I was here. Old Mec's getting settled in.”

Vidocq entered the room cheerfully.

“Hey there, Pharaoh, come to ask for a job?”

“You know I haven't. I need to consult with you about a case that I'm working on.”

“Ooh-hoo. But I'm afraid I can't do that for free. That's going to cost you. Five francs, same as everyone else.”

Javert rolled his eyes. “Can you just put it on my tab?”

“I suppose so, since it's you. Come back here into my office. I can offer you a cup of coffee.”

Several paintings decorated the rather large office they were led into, military and biblical scenes. Sure enough, there was a small pot of coffee on the sturdy wooden desk. Vidocq grabbed another two small cups out of a small cupboard, and poured coffee for his guests. A set of rather ornate leather upholstered chairs populated the room, one on either side of Vidocq's desk. He pulled up a third one from the edges of the room where it had stood out of the way, and invited his guests to be seated.

“Now, what has you seeking out my services?” he asked as he sat down behind the desk.

Javert began to fill him in on the history of the case, not neglecting the role Valjean had played in recognizing the branch.

“And how came he -” Vidocq pointed right at Valjean, “to be with you when you were going to work that day?” And then to Valjean, “Have you deigned to become Javert's new star agent?”

Javert replied in his stead. “Playing innocent doesn't suit you, Mec. Please stay on topic.” Valjean was relieved that there was no need for him to answer. He disliked Vidocq's insinuations and needling.

“Heh. Well, it sounds like an interesting case. I always considered Lefèvre a man you could rely on. He helped me with a few tricky arrests in his time,” said Vidocq thoughtfully. “But you say you haven't heard much from him? He might be falling deeper into the bottle. His drinking has been increasing ever since his wife died, and I'm not sure that the man can keep up with his habit. I've never heard of this Desmarais character.”

“We know where he can probably be found, we just need you to find out whether he has some sort of cheating system.”

“Have you thought of putting Ronquetti on it? He's a master card sharp, or was, before he joined up. I think he plays clean when he plays, now.”

“You think,” Javert said, annoyed. He leaned back in his chair so that the front two legs tilted off the floor.

“You still can't admit that the best man for the job might be one of your own agents,” said Vidocq.

“This case is too important right now – all right, fine, have it your way. I will ask Ronquetti to do it.” Javert let the chair fall down rather heavily.

“Just asking if you considered him. As a matter of fact, I would be happy to work this case with him. I've been very busy here lately, but there's not a great deal of variety in my clients so far. I'm missing the old excitement. I'm otherwise engaged tonight, so can it wait until tomorrow night?”

“If it must,” conceded Javert. “I'll have an agent keep an eye on the place tonight, but not take any action. Just watch.”

Vidocq nodded. “Just give me the address, and tell Ronquetti to expect to see me there. You'd better stay away from this one – cards aren't one of your talents. I'll report to you the day after tomorrow, first thing in the morning. That will be another five francs, by the way.”

“You must be doing pretty well for yourself here,” said Javert sourly.

“Can't complain,” said Vidocq happily. “You know that you are welcome to join me. Ask your friend here; you say he has a head for business.”

Javert apparently didn't think that was worth a response, so he stood up with a deep stretch, and said his goodbyes to his mentor.

I’m back after a rough few weeks :)

Valjean had observed that Javert set great store in punctuality.  He was a little alarmed when he arrived at Javert’s apartment one evening at their agreed upon time to find no one home.  He used the key to let himself in, grateful that Javert had the foresight to give it to him.  The daylight had started to fade outside, but inside the apartment it was positively dark due to the heavy curtains.  This was one quirk of Javert’s that he didn’t understand.  Valjean loved the sunlight and had taken the slight risk of leaving his windows uncurtained whenever he could.  Perhaps it was his upbringing working outdoors with plants, perhaps it was the life of hiding he had lived that made him crave the sunlight that he feared to walk around openly in.  

He wasn’t sure what to do while he waited for Javert to arrive.  He lit the hydrostatic lamp and set it so that he would see it immediately upon entering and know that Valjean was waiting for him.  It wasn’t cold enough to light a fire in the small fireplace.  The room was scrupulously clean already.  He read over the titles of the books and journals shelved around and over the bed, picking idly at them, but none in particular caught his interest.  He wondered about them as a whole, instead.  When had Javert learned to read?  Was it possible that he had been taught in his boyhood by the same Ignorantin friars who had taught him to read?  He would have to ask later.  And what of his taste in books?  Had Javert as a young adjutant-garde-chiourme been determined to learn the law in order to rise into a better career?  Had it ever been his ambition to become a lawyer?

He was soon awoken from these thoughts by the sound of footsteps in the hall and the key in the door.  Javert had a weary air, but brightened when he saw Valjean waiting for him.  Their greetings were warm and punctuated with kisses more affectionate than passionate.

“Madame Verne prepared dinner for us.  It’s on the stove downstairs when you are ready,” said Javert.

“Does she mind me joining you?”

“Of course not.  She adds it to my bill, is all.  I think it rather pleases her - gives her something to talk about.  There’s really no point in attempting to hide the nature of our friendship from her.”

Valjean wasn’t sure whether he liked that or not, but he did know that it had grown late and he was hungry.  They went down together, and Javert spoke of work while they ate a thin stew.  He had been late waiting on a report from an agent that he spoke of as rather unreliable.  

“To tell you the truth, I miss when all this was Eugene’s responsibility and I was limited to doing legwork,” he added.  “Just between you and I, understand?”

“I understand.”  He wished he was less helpless to make things better for his friend.  They finished their meal with Javert still in a sulky mood, and made their way back upstairs.

After they entered the apartment, Javert paced down the length of it and back once without speaking.  Valjean waited patiently to hear what was going on in his mind.

“Have you given any more thought to what I asked of you?” Javert said with some hesitation when he returned.

“You mean, about …” There were several options.  Did Javert want his full commitment to service in the Sûreté, or …

“Tying me.”  

 Oh,  thought Valjean.

“Oh,” said Valjean.  He paused.  “I still don’t see why anyone would wish to be bound.  It’s an unpleasant thing.  I have no wish to harm you, but you know better than anyone what I have been through!  In irons night and day, fetters wearing into your skin, never a moment’s peace.  How could you ask me to take away your freedom this way?  After nineteen years, I think that I know the meaning of bondage. You’ve seen the scars that have worked their way into my skin over the decades.  Nineteen years, Javert!”  Valjean had begun speaking faster and louder, and was getting carried away.

Javert’s eyes had closed and he looked pained.  “Forgive me,” he said loudly, cutting off Valjean’s monologue.  “I should have realized that this would be painful for you.”

This plain acknowledgement, unhedged by any justification, soothed something in Valjean.  “But that is to say, it was many years ago,” he said uncertainly, wanting to back up, to make things better between them.

“Some things the years are not enough to heal,” said Javert softly, and Valjean wondered exactly what the pain was that he saw in his friend’s eyes.  Was he thinking about Isaac, or a wound from earlier in life?  He knew so little about the man’s boyhood.  

Valjean took a deep breath and attempted to recollect himself.  Javert came closer and put an arm around him.  “Forgive me.  I see that I have asked too much of you.”

Valjean relaxed into Javert’s touch, and rested his head against the taller man’s collarbone.  After a few moments of silence, Valjean ventured on.  “Why do you want this, Javert?”

“I … like to relinquish control completely.  There’s a sense of peace that I get when I’m bound by my lover that I’ve never found any other way.”  As Javert spoke, Valjean could feel his breath, heartbeat, and the vibrations of his deep voice.  He felt a bit lightheaded.  He still did not understand, but Javert had handed him what he had thought that he wanted earlier, at dinner:  a way to take away his burden.  He felt he had to accept it.  He had to accept that Javert’s history was different from his own.

“All right.”

“‘All right’ what?”

“I wouldn’t mind tying you, if it gives you pleasure, and if you promise you will tell me when to free you.”  Tucked against Javert’s chest as he was, he could not see his reaction.  

Javert gently took hold of Valjean’s chin, tilting his head up and kissing him deeply.  After they came up for air, Javert separated himself from Valjean with some reluctance.  He fetched the rope from his desk, handed it over to Valjean and undressed down to his shirt and trousers.  

Valjean stood holding the rope.  “How do you want me to do this?”

“You choose.”

Valjean cautiously began to unwind the bundle of rope.  It was thin and supple compared with the thick cables he had often used in his time in the galleys.  He decided that he would take Javert’s word that he wished to cede control.

“Hands out.”  Javert obeyed immediately, bringing his wrists together.  Valjean wound an end of the rope around them, and hesitated a moment.  He knew from watching the man escape bonds before that he would have to tie him securely if he was to be held down.  Yet regardless of what Javert had asked for, it would not do to cause him pain.  (He was also not sure if Javert intended to attempt escape.  Was that part of whatever this was for him?) He twisted the rope against itself, tying firmly between Javert’s wrists.  

“On the ground, Javert.”  Javert dropped to his knees on the rug with apparent eagerness. “Stretch out your legs.”  Javert obeyed, and Valjean used the long end of the rope to tie his bare ankles in the same manner.  He then traveled up Javert’s legs, binding around them and in the center every hand’s width or so, and avoiding the man’s knees.  He bound Javert with far more gentleness than he had once used in tying Guelemer.  When he was done, he stood back and inspected his work.  

He touched Javert’s shoulders.  “Are you all right?”  In response, Javert hummed deeply with pleasure.  

Valjean stood up uncertainly.  “Are you going to stay down there?”  

“I’m flexible on that point.”

“Well, what are you going to do?” 

“What do you want me to do?”

Valjean would have preferred that Javert not sit there tied up on the floor, but it seemed a little late to say that, and not in the spirit of what Javert probably wanted to hear.  

“Will you listen while I read to you?”  He had obtained a French translation of the English novel  Emma  for Cosette from a secondhand seller who recommended it as just the thing for a young lady.  After quickly finishing it, she had insisted that he read it as well.  

Javert agreed, Valjean sat down in one of the armchairs, and Javert scooted across the room to join him in a curious, crablike motion.  Valjean began reading with Javert seated at his feet, in a sidesaddle-like position to reduce the pressure on his bound ankles.  Javert rested his back against Valjean’s legs with a deep sigh of contentment.  Valjean was still concerned about this arrangement, but it was true that it looked like Javert didn’t have a care in the world.  

He read through several chapters before he realized that he didn’t have the glass of wine on hand that he normally sipped to prevent a dry throat during these reading sessions.  He stood up to pour some water from the kitchen, and Javert stirred. When he had drunk a glass of water and returned, he found Javert had shifted up and was waiting for him expectantly on his knees. He had not attempted to escape his bonds.  Valjean felt as though the two of them were playing a game that Javert knew well, and he didn’t have the slightest idea of the rules.  

“Will you let me suck your cock?” asked Javert as his next move.  There was a hint of reproach in his voice, as if Valjean should surely have guessed the next step on his own.

Valjean was surprised by Javert’s unaccustomed crudeness.  But the sight of Javert on his knees for him, willingly bound, did something to Valjean.  “Yes, of course.”

He was still fully dressed, but approached Javert eagerly and unbuttoned his trousers.  Javert reared up slightly from his kneeling position and sucked down the other man’s cock.  Relaxed and in practice, he managed to take Valjean’s full length.  Valjean groaned.  Wrists still bound, Javert attempted to grip Valjean’s thigh.  

“You can be rough with me,” he said before putting his mouth back to work.  Valjean didn’t want to, and he did want to.  He thrust hesitantly into Javert, who didn’t seem displeased, so he continued, speeding up.  

“You look so - so good - down there,” Valjean gasped out. Javert moaned around him.  Valjean stroked Javert’s bristly short cropped hair, until he reached the indentation above his ear.  Javert jerked back reproachfully, sitting on his heels and startling Valjean.

“Did I hurt you?”

“No.  Just don’t do it again,” Javert replied.  He came forward and took Valjean in his mouth again, but now Valjean was reluctant and stepped back.  “Please,” Javert said.

“I may do as I like with you?”

“Yes,” Javert said, apparently trusting that this would not include touching his head again.

Valjean hooked one arm under Javert’s knees and the other under his shoulders, lifted him with a grunt and carried him to bed; still bound, gray eyes wide.  He lay down facing Javert and pulled him close, on his side.  Valjean placed his hand between Javert’s legs, and found him as hard as he had expected.  He worked Javert free of his trouser fastenings, thankful that he had not put the rope so high up his thighs.  Valjean took both of their cocks in his hands, together, and stroked them.  Knowing that he shared this pleasure with Javert made it much more intense.  He kissed Javert while the other man moaned against his lips.  Even bound, Javert was able to loop his arms around Valjean’s neck.  

Valjean knew that he could not last long, not after Javert had brought him so close with his mouth.  He paid extra attention to Javert’s cock to try and even things out, rubbing at it the way he had learned Javert liked.  Valjean came first but was quickly followed by Javert.  He pushed Javert over onto his back, kissing him passionately.  Javert kissed back, but was still clearly letting Valjean lead him, even in this.  Surely it was time to untie him.  He began at the wrists, and Javert made no motion to either protest or help.  Once the wrists were free, he noticed the indentations where the rope had pulled into Javert’s skin, and he ran his fingers over the marks nervously.  The skin didn’t appear raw or painful.  Valjean followed the length of the rope to his lover’s ankles and legs, unknotting it as he went.  He helped undress Javert, who was rather shaky and quiet, and then took his own clothes off. 

Valjean climbed back in bed, and pulled Javert into his arms.  

“I love you,” he spoke into the skin of Javert’s back, wanting reassurance after what he had done.

“I love you too,” came the reply.  “Mon hibou. Thank you for tonight.” Javert sounded completely at peace, and, reassured that he had not harmed the man, Valjean quickly fell asleep.

The next evening, while Vidocq and Ronquetti were out investigating Desmarais, Javert was clearly feeling restless.  It wouldn’t do to jeopardize their investigation by dropping in on it, but he couldn’t seem to calm down.  The preoccupied inspector was a barely tolerable companion, and before long, he suggested returning to work.  With a sigh, Valjean agreed to leave the rather cozy apartment and go back to Lefèvre's.  Javert’s mistrust of the proprietor had spread to Valjean, and he didn’t like for Javert to go on his own.  

“Remember, pretend that you don't know me,” Javert warned as they approached the outside of the gambling house.  “You enter first, and I'll follow later.”

Valjean made his way into the establishment.  It lacked the glamor of the one legal gambling house he had been to, and had far more going on then the illegal back room tables where he had learned to play Bouillotte.  They had arrived at what must have been the busiest time of day.  Men and women alike gathered around tables where various card games were being played.  The atmosphere was loud and almost cheerful, but there was an undercurrent of anxiety and even an undertone of desperation that was not present at a typical public house.  

He purchased a glass of wine, took a sip, and immediately suspected it must have been watered down beyond even the practice of ordinary dishonesty.  While waiting to be dealt in at a Bouillotte table, another idler began to talk with Valjean.  His instinct was to avoid conversation, but remembering why he was here, Valjean encouraged the man to continue speaking.  

He wasn't really getting anywhere.  His new acquaintance seemed to simply like to hear himself speak, and he went on endlessly about his work driving the diligence from Paris.  Valjean took another long sip from his glass as gossip and speculation about the passengers began to follow complaints about the weather.

“Pretty poor stuff, isn't it?” said the man, breaking his monologue, and nodding his head towards Valjean’s wine glass.

“Yes, I hate to complain, but it is.”

“Not worth what old Lefèvre is charging for it, anyway.  Now here's a place that's really gone downhill,” the driver continued in a slightly lower voice.  Valjean noticed Javert passing through the front door.  “Used to be that you could get a decent drink here.  A nice bit of refreshment before the fellows take your money.”

Valjean didn't reply.  He was watching Javert seek out Lefèvre.

“I live nearby, you may have been wondering, and I come here often when I'm in Paris.”

Javert disappeared into a back room with a man who Valjean couldn’t see well, but assumed was Lefèvre.  He reluctantly refocused his attention back on the man talking to him.  “Often?”

“Yeah, often enough.  I don’t really have the habit of gambling, just a few hands every now and then, mind you, but it’s a nice enough place to spend a few hours.”

“Peaceful spot after work?”

“Mostly peaceful; mostly.  We don’t have a lot of excitement here.  This place is licensed, you see, and the police leave it alone.  There are also women here, as you see - some of them are not even women of the town!”

But Valjean was still listening between the lines of what his companion had said earlier.   And who knows? The man is clearly a gossip, he thought, before speaking aloud.  “You said that it’s mostly peaceful.  Any excitement lately?”  

The man’s eyes light up.  “As it happens, I saw a proper fistfight here not two weeks ago.  The kind of brawl that you normally don’t get here.”  Valjean nodded with what he hoped looked like excitement or encouragement.  The man continued, “Yeah, this newcomer that has been around a few times got into a fight with a regular here.  Said he was cheating, and then he refused to pay his debt.  Of course, no one would stand for that kind of talk, and the fellow wanted his money. They got into it.   Parbleu, but that was a fight.  Eventually they were dragged apart, but the newcomer got the worst of it.”

“Did he ever come back?”  

“No, come to think of it, I don’t think that I have seen either of them since that fight.  Mind you, I might be looking for more peaceful pastures too if it had been me.”

“What about that regular?  What was his name?”  Valjean felt something akin to the thrill of the chase.  Surely this was too much to be coincidence.

“Pieters.  I always thought that he seemed like a good enough sort, until he started swinging.  I don’t know if he really was cheating or not.  I hadn’t lost to him.”  

“What did you say your name was?”

“I didn’t - the name is Travers.  Nice to meet you....”

“Valjean.”

“Nice to meet you, Valjean.”  With that, his talkative companion Travers appeared to see someone he recognized, and quickly made his way across the room.  

Valjean wasn’t sure what to do next.  It seemed unlikely that he would be able to beat that stroke of luck.  He joined a table as a place opened up, and played two hands before he noticed Javert striding across the room and straight out the door, not sparing him a glance.  He felt alarmed, but surely Javert would wait for him outside.  Even if this was some fit of pique, and Javert had well and truly taken off, Valjean was more than capable of finding his own way home.  He finished the hand he was playing, stood up, collected his money, and left to find his friend.

As he had hoped, Javert was waiting outside, on the very bench where they had met up the last time they had split up at Lefèvre’s.  

“I can’t get a word out of him,” complained Javert, standing up to meet Valjean.  He gestured for Valjean to join him as he started walking and continued speaking.  “Come, I don’t want to be seen here.  Anyway, nothing useful.  Is he sleeping on the job or is he hiding something?  I can’t tell for the life of me.  Did you get anything?”

“As a matter of fact, I did,” said Valjean happily.  “I met a very talkative diligence driver who told me that even though this is a generally quiet establishment, there was quite a fight around the time that our murder took place.  A man named Pieters was accused of cheating by a newcomer, and they got into a fistfight.”

The light of the streetlamps was enough to see that Javert looked intensely interested. “You don’t say.  It’s a shame it’s not a name we recognize.  That would simplify things.  I assume you asked about the name of the newcomer?”

“Of course.  My informant didn’t know, though.”  

“Hmm.  It could be a false alarm, but I doubt it.  Everything matches up.  Martin was clearly in a fight before he died.  Either he or his murderer was at Lefèvre’s, or both, as we knew from the broken cherry branch.  Likely he was there, based on what his widow told us.  His murderer used newspaper like the ones that are available to be read at Lefèvre’s.  That puts them both there. Now we learn that there was a fight at around that time.  And accusations of cheating, right before a man we suspect to be cheating disappears.  Was this Pieters an accomplice of Desmarais?  My instinct is telling me that we are on the right track.” Javert had sped up while he talked, but now realized it and dropped back to allow Valjean to catch up with dignity. 

“But what I want to know,” Javert continued, “is why I didn’t hear anything about this from Lefèvre!  Brawling, surely to the point of injury; disorder; assault.  This should have been reported to me immediately.  What was he thinking?  He had clearly been drinking when I was speaking to him tonight.  Perhaps he was in a drunken stupor on the night of the murder.  Or perhaps he was the one who did it.  I can’t think of any other reasons he would cast this suspicion on himself by not doing his duty and reporting to me.”

“You think him capable of such a thing?”“I don’t know,” said Javert thoughtfully.  “He doesn’t seem to have the slightest motive to have done it.  Honestly it seems more likely that he was dead drunk and not aware of what was going on in the same room.  Either way, you did great work tonight.”  Javert brushed his hand against Valjean’s, giving it a fleeting squeeze.

Despite the fact that he had not initially wanted to get involved, Valjean was flattered by the praise.  It was with a grin that he followed Javert the rest of the way home.

As they began to settle in for the evening, Javert poured Valjean a glass of wine.  He took it with gratitude and sipped at it.  

“This is good wine, thank you.”

“Jean, you’re a cheap date.  This is not a good wine.”

Valjean laughed.  “Compared with the last stuff I've drunk, it is.  The other thing that that man Travers told me is that the drinks at Lefèvre’s are really going downhill.  Mine was very watered down.”

“Interesting.”  Javert was lost in thought for a moment, a deep frown on his face as he tapped his fingers against his own wine glass.

“Is this petty dishonesty, or the key to it all? I wonder!” he eventually burst out, excitedly.  

“How so?”

“It could still be unrelated, but I imagine Lefèvre may have been taking a cut from our Desmarais’ gambling winnings.  That would provide him with a motive, perhaps.  It at least provides him a motive for not communicating with me.  He hasn’t been sleeping, he was simply playing us false.  Now that Desmarais and his merry crew have moved on, Lefèvre is faced with a drop in income.  He must make do simply based on his own honest business.”

“Doesn’t the Sûreté pay him?”“No, his gambling license is his payment for his service, such as it is.”  Javert nodded briskly.  “Tomorrow morning, I will go to all the wine merchants in the area and check their sales records.  See if I can pin down the timing for when his orders must have dropped off.  If I find what I think I’ll find, we will have enough evidence to arrest him and search his own record books.”

Javert raised his glass, having become much more animated. “To tomorrow, then!”

Valjean was excited in spite of himself, and eager to find out what Javert would find.

***

It had been sooner than Valjean had hoped, but later than he had feared that Javert had another one of his seizures.  After returning from Lefèvre’s, they had been spending a quiet night in Javert’s apartment, armchairs placed side by side so that Javert could look over Valjean’s shoulder while he read.  Valjean looked up from the book he was reading and noticed that Javert had gone totally still.

“Javert?” he said cautiously.  No response.  

Valjean touched the other man’s arm, as he noticed that Javert was absently making a chewing movement.  He was no longer alarmed by these spells, but he was filled with concern and pity.  He didn’t know what to do, so he took both of Javert’s hands in his, and held them tightly.  Finally, Javert began to stir.

“You’re here,” Javert said in a sleepy voice.

“Javert, are you awake?  Do you know where you are?”

“’M with you, Isaac,” he mumbled.

A desperate wave of emotion tore through Valjean.  The pity he felt remained, and deepened, but it was joined by a deep pang of anger and jealousy.  A moment later, he also felt guilt well up for his jealousy and frustration with his friend, who was clearly unwell.  He felt torn apart inside.  He wanted to break something.  He loved this man; Javert was the only person who had ever made him feel this way, but to hear him call out to another as if Valjean was nothing to him -  

Javert moved slightly more, wiped his mouth, and began to straighten himself up.  “Jean,” he said contentedly, and rested his head against Valjean’s shoulder.  

Valjean managed to contain his swirling emotions, and allowed Javert to continue to rest against him.  This time he fell into a healthy sleep, from which Valjean didn’t want to wake him.  For lack of anything else to do, he read ahead in the book they had been reading together, and brooded.

***

Valjean did not tell Javert exactly what had happened or how he had upset him.  There was nothing to be gained by it.  But later that evening, after Javert had fully recovered, he still felt a bit reckless, wild.  As they were going to bed, he spoke up.  

“Perhaps tonight I want to surrender to your ownership completely,” said Valjean in a manner he hoped was flirtatious.

Javert snorted. “Always so melodramatic. And what have I told you about unthinking agreement to your friends?”

“‘Don’t?’”

“Yes.  But I think I know what you are asking?” 

Valjean nodded.

“Then I would be more than happy to grant it,” said Javert, eyes wide and gleaming.

He led Valjean to the sturdy bed he was beginning to think of as theirs.  After they undressed, Javert directed Valjean onto his hands and knees, telling him it would be easier this way.  Javert carefully worked him open with his fingers and oil from the little bottle. It was uncomfortable at first, but he would not back down. If Javert could bear this, and take pleasure in it, surely he could as well. He didn't want Javert to see a thief when he looked at him, and would not take anything from his friend that he could not offer in return.  Javert added another finger.   A tiny part of Valjean, one that he didn’t want to admit to, felt that this was a competition with the long-dead Isaac:  Isaac may have had him first, but he would give Javert what Isaac didn’t care to.

“That's enough - please do it now,” said Valjean, and Javert quickly moved to comply.  Javert’s cock was proportionate with the rest of him, but he went slowly.  He rubbed his hands up and down Valjean’s back as he entered him.  

“Easy; relax,” Javert said.

Valjean didn't make a sound beyond a short exhalation. It was painful but he wouldn’t let Javert know.  He tried to relax as he was told.  Javert began to move gently.  His large hands gripped Valjean's shoulder and hip, at first caressingly.  As his momentum built up, he began pulling Valjean back to meet his thrusts. Valjean relinquished control of their motion completely, surprised by the sensation building up inside him. He found himself moaning as pleasure overtook pain. As if encouraged, Javert moved a hand to Valjean's cock, leaving the other on his hip. Valjean found to his surprise that he couldn't last much longer.   Javert leaned over him and bit his shoulder.  It felt good, far better than he thought it should have been, and he came with a loud groan.  It was as if the sight of him moved Javert to climax as well.  They lay together, exhausted and sweaty.  Javert continued to stroke Valjean’s back idly.  

“God, Jean.  You looked so pretty underneath me like that,” Javert finally said.  When Valjean didn’t reply, he added, “I hope I didn’t hurt you?”

“No.  I just - why would you think I’m pretty?”  He was uncomfortably aware that even in the relatively dim light, his scars would have been on full display to Javert in the position they had assumed.

“I don’t mean - pretty, like a young maiden.  Pretty, like something that is perfectly itself.  Yourself.  I don’t know how to explain myself; it was just a fancy.”

Valjean decided to let it go.  Javert stood up to retrieve cloths and get both of them cleaned up. 

Lying curled against Javert afterwards, Valjean did not feel that he had been melodramatic at all in his earlier request.  He was Javert’s through and through, and the thought pleased him in a way that he once would never have dreamed of.  


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean had trouble getting Javert out of bed the next day.  He knew that his companion would regret being late for work, but Javert was even more sleepy and possessive than he normally was in the mornings.  Valjean started to get up, only to be pulled back into bed.  He had no real wish to resist, and curled back up next to Javert, who made a sleepy sound of approval.  

But it was only after Valjean succeeded in getting out of bed and pulling Javert with him that he realized Javert wasn’t well.  His pupils were somewhat uneven, a sign in him that Valjean had learned was likely to precede a seizure.  

“How are you feeling this morning?” asked Valjean tentatively.

“Never better,” said Javert with a smile that looked rather forced.  “I woke up with a lovely man, after all.”

“Javert.”

“Fine, if you insist, I have a bit of a headache, but it’s nothing.”

“Your eyes are uneven.”

The eyes in question rolled in mock exasperation.  Or Valjean hoped that it was mock exasperation.

Valjean was watching Javert prepare coffee in the small press, when Javert froze.  Valjean sighed, and tried unsuccessfully to get his attention.  He hurried to his side in case he needed support, placing his hands around his waist, but Javert didn’t fall.  Javert reached towards the teakettle again.  Valjean, alarmed, smacked his hands away from the hot kettle, then caught and held them.  Thus restrained, his hands rubbed roughly and repeatedly against Valjean’s.  Valjean waited it out, wishing there was more he could do.  Javert was back to himself in a minute or so, brushing himself off and claiming he was fine.

After they went back to the temporarily abandoned coffee, Javert spoke of how eager he was to hear Vidocq’s report from the previous night.  Valjean would have preferred that Javert go back to bed, but he knew that his lover was stubborn and would not change his plans for the day.  He didn’t bother to ask him to.

“Let me follow you at work today,” suggested Valjean instead.  “You need someone with you who can keep an eye on you.”

Javert reluctantly conceded.  Surely he must see the wisdom in Valjean’s suggestion, but his pride would not make it easy.  

Once they reached the Sûreté offices, Valjean sat down at a shared writing table and wrote a note to Cosette, explaining that something had arisen with Javert, who needed his help, and Valjean would not be home that day.  He sent sincere apologies to her, telling her that he would not be able to take her to see Marius.  He kept the details deliberately vague.  Valjean sent it with the same office boy who had once brought a letter to him, then rejoined Javert. 

Vidocq arrived shortly after them, and showed himself into Javert’s office with the ease of a man entering his own office.  When he saw Valjean, he paused.

“Don’t let me interrupt his report,” he said to Javert with a trace of irony.

“No, go ahead,” Javert said.  With noticeable reluctance, he added “He’s keeping an eye on me today.  I anticipate being unwell.”

Vidocq took a closer look at Javert.  “Have you been having your fits recently?”

“Not much, just one last night and this morning.  Valjean said it was nothing major.”

Vidocq looked to Valjean for confirmation, who nodded. Vidocq continued, “You should be at your home.  Are you really counting on your fellow-friend here to drag you back home if you need it?”

“Sure, he’s the strong, protective type,” Javert said flippantly.

“Just how you like them,” Vidocq said with an eye roll.  

“Regardless, I believe I recall you no longer being my superior.  I also recall that you are here on business, and that you are charging me accordingly, so can we get to the part where I hear your report?”  There was no real hostility in Javert’s tone.

“Sure thing,  Agent en Chef.  You were right about Desmarais.  Ronquetti and I followed him all night, from the time he arrived in the gambling house.  He appears to have a group of men working with him, along with a few women of the town.  They are communicating with one another subtly, but it is there if you know what to look for.  The idea is that on any given night, some of them may lose some money, but overall they all come out ahead at the end of the night when they pool their winnings.  I won a bit of money off of him, lost some more to one of his mates.  I’ve seen similar arrangements before.”

“Anyone there by the name of Pieters?”

“Pieters, hmm, let me see.  Yes, I can picture him now.  A real tough, ugly customer.  I’m almost sure that he is working with Desmarais.  You didn’t tell me that he was one that you are interested in,” Vidocq said with a hint of reproach.

“I didn’t know until last night.  I may not be skilled with cards, but Jack and I were not about to sit idle while you had all the fun.”  Javert proceeded to tell Vidocq what they had discovered last night, about the fight in the bar, and about their suspicions of Lefèvre. 

“Could be.  I’ve known of cases like this, where a third party receives regular payment from card sharps in return for not spilling the beans.”

“Oh, stop it, Eugène - I know you’ve taken such money yourself, in your youth.”

“We’ve all done unwise things in our youth, my friend,” said Vidocq.

Valjean thought back to a youth spent working as hard as he could arrange, followed by a single stumble which had left him labeled for life as a very dangerous man.  The punishment for his folly had nearly made him so, in truth.  He felt a twinge of jealousy for anyone whose youthful mistakes had been thought of as such by others, and could now be thought of with a laugh.

Javert sighed.  “Be that as it may, I’m concerned with the here and now.  We also have a hint that  Lefèvre may be watering down his drinks much more than normal lately.  That could make sense if he’s had a sudden drop in revenue from a lack of payoffs from Desmarais.  I’m going out this morning to check the records of the local wine merchants, see if I can find anything about the timing of a dropoff in his orders. It may take awhile, since it will have to be a bit hit or miss.  Unless you happen to know off the top of your head where Lefèvre gets his wine and liquors?”

“No idea.  I hope you are mistaken, though,” continued Vidocq.  “I’ve always thought of Lefèvre as a good man, and he’s been a valuable agent in his time.  I know you two never saw eye to eye, but do you really think that he’s capable of murder?”

“I hope to find out.”

“It sounds like you have a long day ahead of you.  I wish you the best with your investigation.  Let me know how it all ends up - I’m curious now.”

“I’ll write,” said Javert, lightly flicking the inkpot with the tip of a quill.

“Don’t be a stranger, all right, Javert?”  Vidocq seemed almost sincere, as though he missed his former right hand man.  “M’sieur Valjean, a word?”

Valjean followed Vidocq out into the hallway, as the detective shut Javert’s door behind him.  

Without any preamble, Vidocq started, “Part of me is glad that you are able to keep an eye on Javert.  But don’t think that I am not keeping an eye on you.”

Valjean raised an eyebrow, but said nothing.

“Listen,” continued Vidocq, “I don’t want to know what you and Javert are getting up to.  But any idiot can see how happy you are making him.  Just don’t mess up,” he concluded with a warning finger.

“You know he can hear you from here?” asked Valjean.

“I doubt it,” said Vidocq.  “But it doesn’t matter.”

Javert opened the door.  “I can definitely hear you, ‘Gene.  Leave him alone.” 

“Ha.  Right you are, I have business to attend to.  Good day.”  Vidocq excused himself with a tip of his hat and an utter lack of embarrassment.

***

The task ahead of them promised to be an exhausting one.  With no real lead on where to start, Valjean and Javert wandered from one wine merchant to the next, starting in the general vicinity of Lefèvre’s and working their way outwards.  Valjean kept a close eye on Javert, although the man seemed to be holding up well.  It was mid-afternoon before they found the shop whose proprietor sold to Lefèvre.  

“Yes, he buys wine here.  Why do you need to know?” The owner, or perhaps he was an employee, asked the question with curiosity rather than hostility.  Javert had already shown his identification card stating that he worked with the police.  

“I can’t say right now, but what records do you keep of his purchases?  I will need to look over what he has bought for the last few months.”

“All right, let me dig through my accounts.  It won’t be fast - I don’t separate my accounting books by customer, of course.”  The man continued to talk while he reached under the counter for a heavy looking book, followed by two similar looking ones.  “Business has been good the past few months.  If you want to know what I think?  I think it’s the cholera.  Everyone is drinking more.”*  He was flipping through the first book he had extracted, and finally tapped a line and said, “Here.  This is Lefèvre’s most recent purchase.  Here’s the number of bottles and barrels, and here in this column is the total cost.  You can skim down to find his earlier orders.  He generally orders every week.”

“Do you know if he also makes regular orders at any other wine shop?”

“I don’t, but when I’m unloading the cart, I’ve noticed that his stock just seems to be from here.  He’s been a loyal customer over the years.  I hope there isn’t any trouble.”

“Perfect.  I’ll read over these and get them back to you.”  Javert fished a stubby pencil and paper from a pocket, and began to copy down figures from the ledger while leaning against the counter.  He skimmed down to the next relevant entry, and copied it as well.  

“Here we have it, Jack!”  Javert exclaimed excitedly, about twenty minutes later.  “I’ve gone back two months now.  About two weeks ago, there was a sharp dropoff in the dollar amount of his orders.  He’s tried to keep the drink amount the same by ordering by the barrel and buying cheaper wines and liquors, but there’s still a dropoff in quantity, too.”  He pushed the ledgers back over in the direction of the shopkeeper. “Thank you, monsieur; that will be all.” 

As they walked out of the store, Javert continued, “I think we have enough to make an arrest now, and to question our friend Lefèvre.  Also, I can now justify searching his home for the guns.”

“Are we going there right now?” 

“I’ll go back to the prefecture, and get a warrant from the commissaire.  I also want to see if I can get Desmarais in for questioning as well.  We can pick him up tonight at his new stomping grounds, if all goes well.”

It was quite late in the afternoon before Valjean and Javert showed up at Lefèvre’s, warrant in tow, but business had not yet picked up at his gambling tables.  

“Good day, Gerard,” said Javert politely.  

“Javert,” he replied with a slight nod.  “What can I help you with today?  I’m afraid I don’t have anything interesting to report.”  He spoke with dignity but Valjean had the distinct impression that he had been drinking and was already the worse for it.

“No, my friend, you are just the man I want to see.  May I talk with you privately?”

Lefèvre was visibly reluctant, but showed them to a sparsely furnished back room with a table and some books, presumably where he did the business of running the establishment.  Javert scanned the room, then loosened his grip on the heavy cane he held, allowing it to drop into a position from which he could readily swing it.  “I’m here to talk to you about Hubert Martin.”

“Who?”

“Come, Gerard, it’s horribly rude to murder a man and not even bother to find out his name.”

Valjean silently cursed Javert for a fool.  He had only his cane on him, Valjean himself was unarmed, and if their suspicions were correct, Lefèvre was a desperately dangerous man who owned a pistol.  

“This your idea of a joke, Javert?” Lefèvre asked at last.

“Not at all, Gerard; you know I lack a sense of humor.  The reporter?  Rather tall, blonde man?  You shot him?  Surely you remember.  Hands out so my friend here can cuff you.”  

Lefèvre made no move to comply.  After a moment’s pause, he suddenly sprung into motion.  He swung a double-fisted punch hard into Javert’s left arm which held the cane, and it clattered to the floor.  

He took another swing at Javert, aiming for his face, but this time he was prepared, and ducked. Javert made a low kick that connected with his opponent’s shin. Valjean had sprung into action, attempting to grab Lefèvre.  Unfortunately, the impact of Javert’s kick had sent him stumbling in the other direction and out of Valjean’s reach.  Their slightly drunk opponent had been put more off balance than either Valjean or Javert had anticipated.  As he tried to regain his balance, Lefèvre’s next punches went low and hit Javert in the stomach.  Javert got in a blow to the man’s ear, and this time Valjean succeeded in tackling Lefèvre before he could get in another punch.  

Both he and Lefèvre fell to the ground, with the latter struggling desperately to get free of the enraged Valjean.  Clinging to the other man from behind and to the side, Valjean was hit repeatedly with Lefèvre’s elbows, but he was insensible to the blows.  His anger added to his considerable strength, and it was only a matter of time for Lefèvre, who had no hope of escape.  Valjean grabbed the man by the throat and held on, despite a good backwards kick to the shin, until Lefèvre lost consciousness.  The struggle was soon over.  

Valjean remembered the handcuffs in his pockets and hurriedly threw them to Javert.  “I don’t actually know how to use these,” he said apologetically. He held out Lefèvre’s hands to Javert to allow him to apply the cuffs.   “Are you all right?”

“I am - you?  I didn’t expect him to put up such a fight.”  

“I’m fine.”  In truth, Valjean was becoming aware of a dull pain in his lower right torso, where Lefèvre had gotten in a lucky hit.  He figured it could wait for now.  Impulsively, he caught Javert by the collar and pulled him in where he could easily reach for a deep kiss.

“What’s that for?”  Javert was winded from the fight, or possibly the kiss.

“I’m just glad you are all right,” said Valjean.

Lefèvre woke up.  It apparently took him a moment to remember what had happened.  “You  tzigane bastard,” he snarled at Javert, testing the strength of the cuffs. 

“Do you want to cooperate now?  It’s a bit late to start, but better late than never,” said Javert. Lefèvre said nothing.  “Where’s the gun, Gerard?”

“I’m not telling you anything,” he said.  “You are conspiring against me to settle a grudge.”

“Now why would I do that, Gerard?  We didn’t have a grudge - not until you assaulted me and my fellow agent here.”

Lefèvre spat.  “Don’t be a fool.  I’m not too proud; I’ll admit that I was always disrespectful to you.  I never thought that you would amount to anything.  Now that you’ve taken Vidocq’s position, you want to use what little power you have to lord it over me and make false charges against me.  How could any man take that lying down?”

“If you insist on wasting my time….  Jack?  Keep an eye on our friend here while I look around for the murder weapon.”  Javert spoke while searching through their captive’s pockets.  He did not find the gun, but did find a small ring of keys which he confiscated.  He picked his cane off the floor and handed it to Valjean before he left.

Valjean waited with the fuming Lefèvre while Javert went upstairs and let himself into the private living quarters above the gambling hall.  The pain in his ribs was growing rapidly as the rush of adrenaline faded.  Lefèvre said nothing, which suited Valjean just fine.  Valjean considered himself a peaceful man, but seeing Lefèvre hit Javert had left him in a barely contained fury.  He glowered down at their captive.

Both men were silent until Javert returned, shortly after.  He was brandishing a pair of dueling pistols excitedly.  “Here we go, I knew it.”

“A man can own pistols -” started Lefèvre.

“‘Can own pistols.’ For what, keeping the peace?  A citizen was assaulted in your gambling hall and you failed to have his attacker arrested, or to inform me?  What kind of place do you expect me to believe you are running here?”

“ - A mere brawl over a hand of cards.  I didn’t think it was worth involving the Sûreté.  I don’t know or care what happened to the man after he left.”

“I have asked you direct questions about what happened here that night, and you are saying you didn’t think it worth answering me?”  Javert knelt down to face Lefèvre.  “Why would you protect Desmarais?  Clearly he was giving you a cut of the money.”

“What money are you even talking about?”

“Save your breath if you don’t have anything useful to say,” snapped Javert, standing back up.  “I’m taking these with me, for some light reading.”  He gathered up the ledgers from their small shelf.  

“Now let’s get going.  I advise you not to try any more tricks.”  Javert led the way out of the room, reluctantly followed by their fuming prisoner, and Valjean brought up the rear.  He was tense and ready to jump on Lefèvre again at the slightest sign of resistance. The man must have sensed this, since he didn’t try anything.

When they made their appearance in the main, public room, the few gamblers and idlers who were there at that hour stared.  Had there truly been enough ambient noise for them to have not noticed the commotion in the back?  

“All right, gents, ladies,”  Javert started in a loud voice.  “Monsieur Lefèvre is, as you can see, busy tonight, and so we are closing this place down on his behalf.  Everyone out, please.”  His air was authoritative, but a few bolder gamblers and the bartender asked questions, to which Javert made sarcastic replies about Lefèvre being ‘ill’ and needing a long stay in the ‘hospital.’  But despite their desperately curious glances, no one made any trouble. As the last of the patrons and employees made their way out, Valjean and Javert followed with their captive and locked the door behind them.  They loaded him into the cab they had left waiting outside, with which Javert intended to personally take the man to La Force.  

* This was a real thing. Our era did not invent pandemic drinking, it turns out.


After the cab ride with the sullen Lefèvre, which Valjean considered deeply uncomfortable and which Javert seemed to take in his stride, they dropped him off at La Force.  Valjean stayed inside the cab, not wanting to see the inside of the prison again, or even the building’s exterior, for that matter.  He had bitterly unpleasant memories of having been himself escorted to La Force by a sneering Javert, after he had first escaped from the small jail in Montreuil-sur-Mer.  His branding and exposition had occurred here, before he had been sent off to Toulon for the second time.  He had to remind himself that they were both different men at the time - the Javert of that time now seemed to Valjean as foreign to his current companion as night was to day, but in moments like this the distance between them seemed to narrow.  For this reason, he waited, curtains drawn, and attempted to quiet his mind.  He reminded himself that Javert had only been doing his job, and furthermore had apologized to him for causing harm.  He had no doubt that Javert regretted the suffering his actions had caused.  



When Javert returned from the prison, alone, Valjean wanted Javert to go home, and reminded him of the seizure he had suffered earlier in the day. However, Javert insisted that he must track down Desmarais that same evening.  “Him and that Pieters fellow; the one that you said actually got into the original fight with Martin.  We know where he is working now, but if he gets wind of our investigation into Lefèvre, he will be much harder to catch.  Your typical criminal is a very shy, modest creature.”  



Valjean chose to ignore the teasing push to the shoulder that accompanied these words.  “What will happen to him?”



“He will likely get a slap on the wrist, if anything.  We mainly want him to be able to testify against Lefèvre.  Pieters, he’s looking at a more serious punishment if your witness comes forward to say that he started a fight with our Hubert Martin earlier in the evening.”



Javert said they would first go back to the Sûreté headquarters at Rue Sainte-Anne.  There they met up with the agent Ronquetti, the man who had assisted Vidocq in determining whether or not Desmarais was cheating.  Javert had apparently found time to send for him earlier in the day.  He also asked another of his agents, who had been waiting around the dormitories idly, to come along as reinforcement.



On the cab ride to the gambling house, Javert gave his instructions to his agents.  “I’ll stay outside - I’ve been in there a few too many times to be able to count on not being recognized.  Ronquetti, Valjean, and Mathieu - you stay together until Ronquetti has identified our men.  Send a message to me via Valjean.  I’ll be waiting for you, and will come arrest them.  Mathieu, you are here to make sure that nothing gets ugly.  We’ve already had enough of that for one day.”



“Aye, m’sieur,” they assented.



They rode to the address that Ronquetti had given the driver, for the lively public house where Desmarais had last been seen working.  After the men got out, the cab went around the corner to wait for them out of sight, on Javert’s instructions.  Valjean brushed his hand against Javert’s as discreetly as he could, and then followed the other agents into the building. From then on, it was just a matter of waiting while Ronquetti kept an eye out for his targets.  Ronquetti said softly to the two others that he saw them, but wanted to wait until he had seen something incriminating that night.  The three of them settled into a corner, watching the game play as though they were waiting for a space to open up at a table.  The other two men were pleasant enough, but they weren’t Javert, Valjean thought ruefully, and time passed slowly. 



Valjean wasn’t sure what to be looking for, but it wasn’t that long before Ronquetti smiled and told him to go “get our friend outside.”  He found Javert leaned casually against the wall, eyes half-closed and smoking a cigarette.  



“Time to go?” Javert asked, straightening up and stamping it out.  



“Yes.”



It was over relatively quickly.  Valjean remained standing by the front door, arms folded, in case anyone tried to flee.  Javert continued inside, glancing immediately at Ronquetti, who pointed out the two gamblers to him.  



Desmarais held his ground as Javert strode towards him purposefully, and met Javert’s habitual scowl with a rather friendly look.  “Hello, I don’t believe we’ve met?”



“Guy Desmarais?  Inspector Javert.  You are under arrest for conspiring to cheat at cards.”  This caught the attention of the few people nearby who had not already stopped what they were doing to watch the proceedings.



“I beg your pardon, there must be some mistake.”



“No mistake - I’m not a gambling man myself but I have the word of several expert witnesses.”



“But -”  Desmarais’ face was becoming red, and he struggled to find words.  Ronquetti and Mathieu had come to stand behind Javert.



“Come peacefully; that’s a good fellow.  The sentence you are facing is nothing compared to resisting arrest.”  There were the dark looks from the other gamblers surrounding them.   Perhaps Desmarais was beginning to consider Javert the lesser of two evils:  he bent his head quietly in assent.  



“Very well,” he said.  Mathieu placed cuffs on Desmarais at a gesture from Javert.



The man that Valjean assumed was Pieters, who had been seated at the next table over, had gotten up while all eyes were fixed on Javert and Desmarais.  He made his way for the door, but found Valjean blocking it.  



“Pardon, m’sieur,” he tried, attempting to step around Valjean.  Valjean barred his way with a sturdy arm.  



“You’re with the 

raille,

 then?” Pieters asked with resignation.  



“Yes.  Pieters?”  The man didn’t answer, but his head had twitched when the name was spoken.  Valjean was deeply grateful to see Javert hurry over with cuffs.  He was not looking forward to another fight, but luckily, Pieters seemed to feel the same way.  He allowed Javert to cuff him with no resistance.



All eyes were currently on them, and Valjean had to wonder how many of the other people in the gambling hall were working with Desmarais.  He supposed there might have been time for a more thorough investigation had Javert not primarily been interested in the conviction of Lefèvre for murder. 



“Good work, all.  Mathieu, flag down another cab.  We don’t want these two talking on the way to their new accommodations.”  Once outside, Valjean convinced Javert to delegate, letting his agents take the prisoners separately to La Force.  Javert’s eyes followed the fiacres until they were out of sight, and the two of them began their long walk to the inspector’s apartment.  Although the pain in his ribs had not let up, Valjean was deeply grateful for how things had been resolved.  No one was seriously injured, the case seemed to be nearly at an end, and Javert had managed to get through the day without having another fit.  



***



A wince at a light touch from Javert, and Valjean was no longer able to conceal his injury from the evening’s earlier fight.  



“What was that about?  Are you hurt?” asked Javert, eyes narrowed.  Valjean thought he recognized Javert’s look - it was the intent one he had used when studying Valjean for some kind of evasion, before they had developed their current trust.  



“It’s nothing much.  Lucky blow from that Lefèvre.”



“That son of a -”



“I’ve had worse,” said Valjean, attempting to appease Javert, who was clearly losing his grip on his temper.  



“It doesn’t matter!  The fact that he dared lay a hand on you!  I should have torn him apart.”



“Javert, you can’t -”



“That back-stabbing, greedy, good-for-nothing bastard.  I wonder how long it took for him to sell out; what Desmarais offered him.  What was he thinking?  Useless shit-for-brains.  Clearly hurting you can only help the case against him.  If he wasn’t three sheets to the goddamn wind all the time he would realize that.”  Javert continued his tirade about the duplicitous agent, but eventually recollected himself and helped Valjean into an armchair.  



“How bad is it?  Do you want me to call in a doctor?” asked Javert.



“No, please don’t do that.”  Valjean had a deeply felt dread of doctors, and an instinct to avoid them at all cost.  In his youth, his family had not been able to afford the services of the local doctor, and had made do as best they could.  The surgeons at the

 bagne

 at Toulon had started their careers as the very finest of butcher’s apprentices, but had grown harsh and indifferent to the rough men under their care, and looked at them just as they would oxen that needed to be kept in good enough health to pull a plow.  Since leaving the galleys, and gaining the money and freedom to pick his own doctors, Valjean had suffered from a fear of discovery if a doctor should see the marks upon his skin.  



“I’ve had my share of broken ribs over the years - do you want me to take a look?”  Javert asked.



“If you would.  But are you sure that you know what you are doing?”



“Isaac showed me.  Shirt off.”  He helped Valjean pull the shirt over his head.  Bruises were already beginning to be visible on his torso.  Also visible was Javert’s anger at the sight.  He drew his breath sharply.  Javert skimmed his fingertips gently along the right side of Valjean’s torso to test his reaction, then carefully pressed harder, feeling around the area Valjean had indicated.  It hurt when Javert pressed down, but not unbearably so.



“You are hiding your ribs under an admirable layer of muscle.  It doesn’t feel as though anything is broken, but I can’t be sure.   A doctor will just tell you to rest as much as you can until it is no longer painful.”  He tossed Valjean’s shirt back to him.  “Sorry I don’t have anything more satisfying to tell you.”



“Thank you, Javert.”  



They spent the rest of the evening quietly.  Javert carried a bowl of stew up the stairs for Valjean despite his insistence that his legs were fine, and later played some tunes for him on the guitar.  



Valjean’s ribs hurt less in the morning, leading him to think that Javert had probably been correct.  Unfortunately, though, he was feeling some new aches and pains from the other blows that Lefèvre had landed, and from the fact that he was getting too old to be getting into fistfights and rolling around on the ground.  He wished that he could convince Javert to take the day off, in light of his own health, and in light of the fact that the case was nearly wrapped up.  But Javert planned to examine the three prisoners that day, and could not be dissuaded.  Valjean chose not to go with him, uncomfortable as he was with the idea of being back in a prison. He spent the early part of the day quietly with Cosette and Marius, and on their way home, he and Cosette made a charitable visit to a family he had heard of through his church.



When he came by to visit Javert in the evening, he arrived to find the apartment empty.  Valjean let himself in, and settled down to wait for Javert.  When he got home, Javert first insisted on checking Valjean’s ribs again.  It was as before:  pain, but bearable, and with a look of approval from Javert, who handed him back his shirt.  Javert sat down opposite Valjean in an armchair, relaxing.  



“I’m sorry that you were injured in our little adventure.  I hadn’t thought that Lefèvre had that much fight in him, or that bad of judgment, or else I would have brought reinforcements.”



“It’s fine.  It hurts less today.”



“Did you tell Cosette how you were injured?”



“No, she doesn’t know that I join you on cases sometimes.  Or that I was injured.”



Javert sighed.  “Well, you know what I think about that, so I won’t bother saying it again.”



“Thank you.”  Valjean shifted his feet guiltily. “You must have had a more interesting day than me.  Will you tell me what you found out today?”



“Gladly.  Upon arriving at La Force, I summoned the prisoners to me one at a time.  As I’m sure you know, it’s no good to speak with them in front of their mates.  I spoke to them with a magistrate in the room - it helps to make sure that everything is aboveboard, and especially to make sure that there is a reputable witness who can speak in court about what was said.



“First I spoke with Desmarais.  We told him everything we knew about his operation, and that Vidocq himself would be acting as a witness against him. Told him he was looking at six months. Told him that we were interested in a bigger case than his cheating at cards, and that things would go much better for him if he decided to cooperate with authorities. We didn't even require that he sell out his associates, beyond the ones that we had already discovered. Desmarais is the sensible sort, if not particularly loyal, and he told us everything.  



“He had found Lefèvre’s to be the ideal medium sort of ground on which to set up operations. Customers had coin, but it was not an elite sort of place. There were plenty of patrons, since it was a legal place; not merely one table in a back room, where it would be hard to find enough “pigeons” to pluck. He even knew that Lefèvre was working with the Sûreté, but these scoundrels tend to recognize something in one another, it seems. They worked out an arrangement where Lefèvre got a cut of the profits in return for turning a blind eye and ensuring that the police didn't get wind of Desmarais' activities. This had been going on for many months, since it had turned into a profitable business. Lefèvre came to rely on the money, it seems.  



“Of course, once Martin accused them of cheating, and there was that nasty row, it would be too hot for Desmarais to continue working there.  Desmarais knew it; Lefèvre knew it.  Of course, Desmarais and his crew can move on to another gambling house, but our hot tempered Lefèvre is stuck.  Desmarais said that he saw Lefèvre leave early that night - odd since he lives right above the gambling hall, and that he seemed angry.  



“From there, of course, we can surmise what happened - Lefèvre must have wanted to silence Martin, in the hopes that he could still keep his rather temptingly good livelihood, and persuade Desmarais to come back.  Plus, a temperamental man like that; you can hardly overestimate their wish for revenge.  So he followed him and administered the last consolation.  I imagine the impulsive fellow regretted it as soon as he had cooled down and sobered up.  Whether he intended to kill Martin all along, or whether his original intention was to just frighten him, I don’t know, and frankly I don’t care.



“So there we can guess all the important facts of the case.  Martin must have known which way the wind was blowing, and broken off that branch in order to protect himself, but of course it wasn’t enough. 



“Next I had Pieters brought in to talk with.  The guards followed my instructions, and he hadn’t been able to communicate with Desmarais.  Pieters was in a terrible fright. He's a rough man – doesn't have the refinement or smooth tongue of Desmarais. A foot soldier compared with his lieutenant. He pleaded with me, telling me that I must understand that he had not killed Martin. He said that Martin had refused to pay up his debts when the time came, and made an accusation that made his blood boil – one that no man could take quietly. Upon my asking, he said it was that he had been cheating, and further admitted that it had been true. But he still insisted that the accusation could not be allowed. These scoundrels, I tell you, Valjean! But anyway, regardless of the justice of the accusation, they fought. Pieters said that Martin threw the first punch. Perhaps your witness, what was his name, can shed some light on what actually happened?”



“Yes; Travers. If we can find him again, I'm sure he will be delighted to tell you all about it.”



“Good. He can help determine how Pieters will do facing those assault charges. But what Pieters really wanted to emphasize is that he considered the fight over with in the bar. He did not follow Martin or kill him, and hadn’t even heard about his death, or so he says.  He said that he went home shortly after the fight, and of course his

 largue

 can give him an alibi.



“Then there was only Lefèvre to visit, and let me tell you, I was looking forward to that social call about as much as Lefèvre himself was.  He had been kept in solitary confinement overnight to let him cool down a little.  He’s still furious as a hornet, but he’s settled down from violence to insulting my race and honorable parentage.  I had hoped that jail would sober him up, but he must have had enough coin brought to him to get thoroughly drunk.  He must realize how badly he messed up in attacking us.”



“Practically an admission of guilt?” guessed Valjean.



“Precisely.  But he still vehemently denies everything.  The game’s up for him, though.  He told me in front of the magistrate and prison guards there that he didn’t leave the house at all that night, but Desmarais’ testimony has him leaving shortly in the mid evening.”



“Will they accept Desmarais’ testimony in court?”



“It should carry some weight.  Combined with the rest of the evidence against Lefèvre, it should be damning.”



“Good, then,” Valjean added, for lack of anything better to say.  He had little sympathy for the violent Lefèvre.



“Yes, the only downside is how poorly this reflects on the Sûreté.  But I don’t anticipate that being my problem for that much longer.”



Truth be told, and this is a truth that Valjean would not, in fact, tell, he was looking forward to the time when Javert would no longer be heading the Sûreté.  The job was clearly wearing on him.  It did not seem to be bringing Javert any satisfaction, and Valjean knew that he himself would be happier to see more of Javert if his workload were reduced.  Valjean only halfway paid attention while the police inspector described having to reassign and find work for all the men he had put on the Martin case.



Valjean insisted that Javert go to bed early that night to recover his strength.  He even nearly managed to convince Javert to use the bed for sleeping once they got there. 


By the time everything had been wrapped up in the Martin murder case, it was nearly the end of August.  Javert’s study of Lefèvre’s record books had been revealing.  As he had told Valjean that he expected, the financial records showed a sudden decrease in revenue right at the time of the murder.  Lefèvre had no clerk and kept the records himself, and so had apparently felt no need to conceal the numbers.  The downside was that the man was a rather sloppy record keeper, and the accuracy of the numbers couldn’t be guaranteed.  But Javert hadn’t seemed worried when he told all of this to Valjean.  He felt the case was in the bag.  All that was left was for Javert and Vidocq to act as witnesses during the trial to come.  

In the week that followed the arrest of Lefèvre and Desmarais, no similar case had arisen that required as much of Javert’s attention.  Smaller crimes, that required little ingenuity to make arrests, kept him and his agents busy.  Valjean was relieved that Javert still arranged to be finished by the evenings most days, allowing them time together.  Occasionally, though, he had to make use of the spare key, when Javert was unexpectedly detained.  

“I was hoping that you would come visit us at Rue de l'Homme Armé tomorrow night,” said Valjean, as he hung up his hat and coat at Javert’s apartment.  Of course he enjoyed his evenings with Javert, but he felt a deep desire to see the two people loved the most together.  “You could sleep over.”

Javert’s tired-looking face brightened.  “I thought you would never ask.”

“And Javert?  Cosette knows about us.  Everything.”

“You don’t say!  You told her?” asked Javert with surprise.

“No!  But she’s a perceptive young woman.  She guessed right away.”

“Hm, she seemed like she has you wrapped around her finger.  I’m not surprised she saw through you.  No harm done, I assume?”  

“No.  Actually, before she met you, Cosette refused to believe you were a man.  She was absolutely convinced that I was courting some lady.  She said that she wanted me to be settled.”

“And after meeting me?”  Javert had moved in close to where Valjean was standing.

“She wasn’t bold enough to address it directly, of course, but she told me a story about a couple of schoolmates of hers.  Apparently she realized that they were in a relationship, like ours,” he said hesitantly. He was acutely aware of Javert closing the gap between them.  “The point is, she understands that she was right about the paramour, and wrong about his sex.”

Javert touched Valjean’s cheek, running his fingers through his short beard.  His fingers trailed down Valjean’s throat and chest, ending possessively on his abdomen.  A thrill ran through Valjean, and he was acutely aware of Javert’s touch through the layers of his clothing.  

“I think you needed a man,” teased Javert.

“I need you,” Valjean said, helplessly, as Javert claimed him with a kiss.  

***

When Javert arrived at their home the next evening, Cosette greeted him effusively.  After their late dinner, they passed a quiet evening.  She sang for them a little, and as Valjean had hoped, Javert praised her voice, and taste in music.  Despite having little knowledge of music, Valjean of course considered Cosette’s taste to be excellent.

Even knowing that Cosette understood what they were to one another and approved, they still tacitly agreed to stay on the side of discretion.  They did not kiss or lay a hand on one another all evening, and they waited until Cosette had already retired for the night before they went to share Valjean’s bedroom.    

Valjean would have had to admit that it was a pleasant novelty to take Javert in his own small bed, hand over his lover’s mouth to muffle his moans.  After, Javert grumbled about the lack of space and abundance of knees and elbows, but Valjean shushed him and pulled him close, and they were able to get fairly comfortable.  

***

Javert was due for a day off soon, and Valjean intended to surprise him with a visit to a theater.  Valjean had never in his life been to see a play, so he was excited about experiencing another first with Javert.  He wrote to Moineau to get a recommendation for where he should take Javert, and received a rather long reply. Moineau had recommended a new revival of Beaumarchais’ La Folle Journée, ou Le Mariage de Figaro.  Moineau himself had joined a vaudeville troupe, but said he did not think that the production would be to Javert’s taste.

The day arrived, and as they ate some leftover bread and prepared to leave for the day, he asked Javert if he had ever been to see a play.

“Yes, a few times,” he replied.  “Eugene’s an enthusiast, but he usually has a lady companion accompany him to the theater.  He’s gone with me before, though.”

“I hope you will join me today,” Valjean said.  “I want to take you to one your brother recommended, this afternoon.”

Javert smiled, but it was not to be.  Just at that moment, a young man came knocking at the door, asking for Javert.  Valjean could hear their conversation perfectly well - Gisquet had requested a report from Javert immediately on a case, and he would be needed to handle several issues arising with the Sûreté.  There was nothing else that could be done, so Javert made his apologies to Valjean and left with the messenger.  

Valjean was deeply disappointed, mostly because he had been looking forward to having Javert to himself that day.  He let himself out, locking up Javert’s apartment.  He brooded on his way home.  

He was thinking to himself how nice it would be for Javert to move in with him and Cosette.  He would not have to divide his time anymore between the two households, allowing him to spend more time with both Cosette and Javert.  Javert’s work occupied so much of his time, and Valjean wished for the man to come straight home to him when he was done.  

In addition, he selfishly hoped that getting Javert out of the old apartment that he had once shared with Isaac would help break whatever connection his mind still had to the dead man.  Valjean could not help but think of the time when Javert called out to Isaac instead of him.  The memory haunted him, and in his gloomier moments, Valjean wondered if in fact he was merely a poor substitute to Javert - merely someone to feed Javert’s appetites now that he couldn’t have the man he wanted.  These thoughts didn’t come up when they were actually together.  The man’s interest, and one could even say devotion, was evident then.  Only when Valjean was alone and the silence was getting to him did he have these worries.  But he wished that there was a way to break Javert’s mind free, forever.  Perhaps changing homes would do it.  Surely the old rooms reminded part of Javert’s mind of old times?

He didn’t know how to broach the subject with Javert, though.  Instinctively, he knew that the inspector was a proud, independent man, who might not react well to what he might perceive as an offer to be kept by a wealthy gentleman.  And so he would continue to hold his tongue on the topic, biding his time.

***

Valjean was happy enough that a large part of him felt that things surely could not go on this way. That part of him was waiting for the other shoe to drop.  And so on some level he was ready for what happened one day, about a week from when they had wrapped up the Lefèvre case.

Valjean arrived at the Sûreté offices around noon, to take Javert to lunch. After ascending the stairs, he noticed that Javert's door was nearly closed, and he could hear voices inside. He waited where he was. He could make out Javert's deep baritone and another man's voice that he knew he had heard before. Javert said the name – Canler – and he wondered why he had not recognized the voice sooner.

“Well, is that everything?” said Javert.

“Inspector?” Canler said quietly. “It's not my place, but I am grateful for the interest you have taken in my career. There's something I must tell you.”

“Well?” said Javert into the following silence.

“I don't know who started the talk, but in all the chaos in the prefecture now. That is to say. I heard a vile rumor that you had taken an ex-convict to – that is to say, as a lover,” Canler stammered. “A man, one they say you had arrested.”

“What's this, my Canler's learning to keep an ear out and listen to the gossip?”

“It's not funny, monsieur. You know Allard is trying to clean up the image of your … colleagues. They are a disreputable bunch, you know that as well as I do, and one of them must have started this rumor. You will not want to be painted with the same brush as the criminals in the Sûreté.”

“I see. Does my paramour have a name?”

“They say it's that new man you brought in for the Patron-Minette case, Jean Valjean.”

“Well, in any case, thank you for your concern, but I will remind you that it is not a criminal offense to associate with a man on parole.”

“Surely it's not true, monsieur?”

“Oh it is. If he wasn't putting me in such a damned sweet mood, I would be biting your head off for your impertinence now, Louis. What's gotten into you?”

“...I see. In any case, that was what I intended to say.... My apologies.” Canler was clearly trying to find a way out of this conversation as quickly as possible.

The door opened fully and Canler stepped out, hat in hand. There was a faint blush on the serious young man's face, turning into alarm when he noticed Valjean there. Canler nodded the barest outline of a bow, and left quickly.

After a moment, Javert joined him silently. He looked deeply weary. “Shall we?” he said, and Valjean followed him out to the street.

They walked in silence for a while. Then when they took a shortcut through a narrow alley walled in on either side with tall houses, Valjean was not able to stay away from the subject any longer.

“Javert? I couldn't help but hear what Canler was saying to you. Is it true that your career could be in danger?”

“Don't worry yourself about it,” he replied vaguely.

There was a pause as they walked, a silence in which Valjean could practically hear things tumbling downhill in Javert's mind. “Is it true that I put you in a sweet mood?”

At that Javert turned, smiled slightly, and pressed Valjean into the bricks of the alley wall. “Don't flatter yourself. I just like having my bed warm. You are like a furnace.”

 It's August, Valjean didn't say, and he contented himself with enjoying the contact.  It was fleeting, though, and soon Javert released him and was turning back towards the offices.  

***

A very formal looking letter arrived at No. 7, Rue de l'Homme Armé addressed to Monsieur Jean Valjean.  This caused some degree of confusion, since the porter knew him only as Ultime Fauchelevent.  The porter was reluctant to hand over the elegant envelope to the rather eccentric gentleman of modest means, thinking perhaps there was an error in address.  In the end, Valjean had to go upstairs and get the papers that Javert had supplied him with weeks ago, and show them to the porter to demonstrate his identity.  The porter habitually asked few questions - a quality that Valjean valued greatly - but now he stared at him with open curiosity.  

Valjean took the letter to his apartment, silently cursing his luck.  Another person to find out his true name, and one who had some contact with Cosette, at that.  His mood had darkened by the time he opened the envelope perfunctorily in the privacy of his room.  

He gasped when he saw the contents.  It was a letter on rather fine paper, written in highly formal phrasings.  His eyes skipped immediately to the signature of King Louis-Philippe himself.  It was a pardon. His thoughts spun - he felt dizzy and unable to read through the full letter.  Valjean lowered himself onto the bed, head falling into his hands.  He would not have been able to explain why, but he began to cry softly.  As the tears came, they intensified, and soon he found himself sobbing as quietly as he could manage.  He let go as some of the pain of the years shook itself loose.  

***

Valjean got himself tidied up before he went to see Javert that evening, scrubbing his face to try to remove all traces of his tears.  He thought he was rather unsuccessful, and he was embarrassed by his state.  But he had recovered into a good mood and was eager to share the good news with his lover.

“Capital!” said Javert when Valjean told him about the pardon, and handed over the precious letter to show him.  “You will be safe now.”  He pulled Valjean into his arms.

“I was safe before.  You had made sure of it.”  There was some part of Valjean that was ashamed of how emotional he had become at the sight of his pardon, and he tried to downplay it.  He moved out of the circle of Javert’s arms.

“Now you are safe from the whims and politics of the Paris police.  That means a lot, you know.  It’s possible that I may not always be able to protect you.  Now you have no need of it!”

“I still need you.”

“Mmm, I would hope so.  You need  me , not the policeman you were paroled to.”

“Yes,” Valjean agreed, then moved in for a kiss.

“Are you going to tell your daughter?  You have very little to lose now.”

“How could you think that?  Of course she and I still have something to lose.  What if her suitor, that Marius, and his family get wind of my past? You can bet they won’t want to be linked with my daughter, pardon or no pardon.  What if…Cosette herself is repelled by me?”

“Your daughter loves you, Jean.  Anyone can see that.”  Javert paused.  “Tell me the truth.  Were you as worried about her finding out about…you and I?”

“...Yes,” said Valjean reluctantly.  He avoided Javert’s gaze.

“And how did that go?”  Javert was relentless.

“You know perfectly well how that went.”

“What I’m saying is, trust her.  If she’s old enough to marry, she’s old enough to know the truth of your past.”

Valjean was so caught up in hiding his past from Cosette that he did not even want this to be true.  It was not a wish of his:  it simply could not be true, and so he dismissed it.  He was not prepared for an argument with Javert about it, however - not when they were both in such a good mood.  He made a noncommittal noise and dropped the topic.  

Besides, he was becoming skilled at distracting Javert.

Now that he had received his pardon, and gotten over his initial emotions surrounding it, Jean Valjean had begun to think ahead to the future.  He knew that his time with Cosette was coming to an end, and he was not ready.  Marius had faced a close brush with death, but the boy’s health was slowly improving and he seemed to be out of the woods.  Furthermore, every day he professed his devotion to Cosette.  It seemed likely that the marriage would go forward.  The thought grieved Valjean, as much as he hoped for Cosette’s happiness, and as much as he knew that this was his own doing in bringing her away from the convent.  The thought no longer threatened to tear him apart, as it had the night he first discovered the message to Marius on his daughter’s blotter.  The thought of her marriage still had the power to nearly bring him to tears some days, but he could now see life for himself beyond it.  

The joy that Valjean could see in the life ahead of him was Javert.  He had not anticipated finding a lover like this, a companion with whom he could share so much.  His life would not be completely bleak after Cosette left to marry.  But although he would still have his life with Javert, he was realistic about the amount of time that Javert would be spending working.  Even if Javert consented to move in with him (he still had not asked), he did not think that the inspector would be willing to retire anytime soon.  There would be many hours alone to fill.

Valjean was getting rather too old to return to his old career as a pruner, especially since there was no financial necessity.  Thinking back on his accomplishments, one thing stood out.  He had taught Cosette to read himself, in the early days of their time together.  He thought with anger of the innkeepers who had failed to give her anything resembling an education.  He thought with gratitude to the friars who had taught him to read in the  bagne, so many years ago, giving him the skills he needed to first run a successful business, and later to pass his knowledge on to a little girl.  Reading had been a great strength and comfort to him over the years.  

Could he now act as a tutor to those who needed it?  Was it too late for him to further pass on what had been given to him?  He had done his best over the years to repay the kindness and compassion that the bishop had shown him, financially.  His circumstances allowed for little else in the way of charity.  But now would it be possible for him to repay the kindness those friars had shown him, whose names he had all forgotten, and to whom he had never offered a word of thanks?  He told himself that he would seek out a way.  


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


When he saw the memo from Pierre Allard, sent over from the Prefecture and hand delivered by an office boy, Javert couldn’t name the emotion he felt.  A sinking, an emptiness.  He could see which way the wind was blowing - when Vidocq was formally removed from the Sûreté, there would be no chance that he would be promoted to take his place permanently.  It was only a matter of time until this meeting with Allard.  A treacherous part of Javert was almost relieved - he had felt more overwhelmed than he had cared to admit in Vidocq’s old position.  Over the course of his career, he was used to being able to perform his job exceptionally, and he felt frustrated that this was a challenge that he struggled to rise to.  He had not admitted this to Valjean, or anyone.  

He opened the sealed letter and read it.  The note itself contained nothing of importance, just a request to wait upon him later that day.  The request was as good as a summons.  Javert sighed.  He would find out more soon enough.  

Javert knew where he was going, having already met with Allard on several occasions.  He made his way to the nearby building.  At the appointed time, he stood outside Allard’s door, and checked his watch.  Two minutes early.  

The door opened, and Allard ushered Javert into a rather fine office.

“Good day, Javert.  Please sit down.”  Javert didn’t particularly wish to, but he followed Allard’s directions.  He took a seat across the desk from Allard, who had returned to his own chair.  He sat up, consciously sitting straighter than normal.  However this conversation went, he intended to keep his dignity. 

“Lovely weather we have been having for this time of year,” said Allard.

“Yes, monsieur.”  Javert was not feeling patient, but he would get through this conversation as best he could.  He was not interested in Allard’s display of friendship.  

“I wanted to congratulate you again on wrapping up that murder case with that Lefèvre.  It’s another feather in your cap.”  

“Thank you - ”

“Although that whole affair has been a cause for concern here in the prefecture.  To think, that an agent whom Vidocq had been willing to vouch for ended up committing a murder.  To say nothing of the dissolute life and questionable business practices he had employed before and after.  It looks very bad.  I’m sure you read the coverage in the newspapers?” Javert tilted his head in assent, but Allard continued on.  “Believe me, they did not gloss over that detail.   Les Temps in particular had a field day with it.  Frankly, this is the kind of publicity we were hoping to avoid by getting rid of Vidocq.  We cannot afford for this kind of thing to happen right now.  I spoke about it with Gisquet, and we’ve come to the same conclusion.”

Allard stopped and took a deep breath.  “We’ve decided that we must dissolve the existing Sûreté, and re-establish it anew with a better sense of order.  No one with a criminal record will be allowed to serve as an agent in it.  As you know, that will only spare you.”  

Javert was surprised to find that this news hit him like a physical blow.  He had not realized how responsible he had felt for the welfare of the agents under his command until it came to this.  “Is your decision final?  I can prepare a list of agents whom I would specially recommend to you, the ones whose loyalty I most count on.  I believe that some of them truly have reformed.”  

“I’m sorry, Javert, but I cannot accept that.  As I said, Vidocq had been perfectly willing to vouch for this murderer.  We cannot risk this happening again.”

There was more to be said, Javert could tell.  There was something more, and Allard seemed to dread bringing it up.  Both men sat in silence; Javert wondering about his own fate but waiting for Allard to bring up whatever it was that was bothering him. 

Finally, Allard spoke again.  “Listen, Javert: I like you.  You’ve always been a dedicated, hard worker, and smart.  Your loyalty to Vidocq was admirable even if the man himself wasn’t.  I wish you hadn’t made this so difficult.”  

“In what way have I made things difficult?  I have been working to make the transition period run as smoothly as possible.”  

“I am committed to reforming the Sûreté, with agents of higher moral character,” continued Allard, as if Javert had not spoken.  “How do you think it looks that you are - having - unnatural relations with a known criminal?  One that was only pardoned on your watch?”

“Excuse me?” spat out Javert.

Allard leaned forward.  “Are you denying it?  I had assumed the rumors were true - I’ve heard them from several sources.”

“My private matters are none of your concern,” Javert said, containing his anger.

Allard leaned back again, clearly uncomfortable.  “Listen.  Your … inclinations are generally known.  If you had restricted yourself to the occasional  tapette, no one would have said anything, and we wouldn’t be having this conversation.  Do you understand?” 

Javert said nothing, glaring.  He felt strongly that he had nothing to defend himself against, and lying seemed out of the question, even if it were not against his nature.

When Allard also remained silent, Javert finally spoke in a low growl.  “I  understand  that you overstep yourself.  You are rightfully in charge of the Sûreté; again, not my personal affairs.”

Allard looked slightly surprised.  What had he expected that Javert would say?  “Here is what we are going to do.  You are going to break things off with that ox of a convict of yours, and you will be reassigned as a regular inspector, nothing connected to the Sûreté, in one of the outlying arrondissements.  You can rebuild your reputation from there.  We cannot afford any more scandals connected with the Sûreté - surely you understand?”

“I repeat, my private life does not concern you,” Javert snapped.  “If it were your business, and it is not, I would have you know that Jean Valjean is a good man.”

“Good at what?” Allard sneered, finally having lost his veneer of politeness. 

“I’m afraid I don’t understand the question, but I don’t like your tone, monsieur.”  Struggling to maintain a hold on his temper, Javert took refuge in formality.  

“I’m saying a convict is not worth your career, dammit!  I don’t know what’s going on in that head of yours, but you could still marry, you know.  If you won’t, and you cannot remain chaste, you know better than I that there are no shortage of young men down at the Champs-Élysées -”

Javert stood up abruptly.  “I will not have this conversation with you, except to say that I pity your wife,” he said with venom.  

“If that is genuinely the way you feel, if you are going to be so bull-headed about the whole business, I’m afraid I have no choice.  I will have to let you go.”

“And over 18 years of service - that means nothing to you?”

“If you valued those years of service, you would not tarnish them yourself through your own actions.”

“My actions  -” Javert began with a shout, then stopped.  He began again with a lower tone.  “My actions have always been for the good of the service, as I have understood it.”   Valjean… whispered a voice in his head, that honest part of him clamoring for attention.  All his actions had been for the good of the service, except Valjean.  He could remember that night in June as if it were yesterday:  escorting the man to his apartment, telling him to go up alone, that moment of bitter war within himself, and a silent stalking off into the night.  The thought struck him, and he became silent.

“No one is arguing about your record of service, Javert.  This is about that felon you are sleeping with.”

“The man received a pardon.”

“A lucky turn of events for him, no doubt, but that means nothing to me.  Am I supposed to explain that it’s fine, one of my inspectors is only sleeping with a  pardoned felon?”  Javert opened his mouth as if to speak, but was silenced by Allard.   “I don’t want to hear any more.  I only want to know: is your decision final?”

Javert steeled himself, standing at full attention.  “Yes,” he said.

Allard let out a huff of disappointment, and dropped his gaze from Javert.  “You will return your cane to your commissaire.  I will escort you out.”

Expression blank, Javert bowed his head slightly in acquiescence, and followed Allard.  

***

Valjean was pleasantly surprised to find that Javert was already at home when he arrived at the man’s apartment in the early evening.  He had hoped, but not expected him so early.  He had brought a bottle of wine.  He greeted Javert, and his happiness was instantly erased when he saw the expression on his face.  It appeared that he had interrupted Javert mid-glare, pacing up and down the apartment in his shirtsleeves.

Javert made a visible effort to compose himself.  “It’s you,” he said, sounding like a man trying to sound happy.  

Valjean tried to think what could have put his friend in such a foul mood.  “Is everything all right?”

“Everything is super, Jean.”

“Tell me what is going on.”

Javert glared at him.  “There’s nothing that you need to know about.”

Valjean hesitated. This was worse than he had expected.  He hadn’t seen Javert this angry since the night they had arrested Lefèvre.  “Is it about your work?”

“I’m telling you, Valjean, there’s nothing that you need to know about.”

He didn’t believe Javert for a second, but he doubted that he would be able to reach the man in this way if he did not want to talk.  Something about his mood bothered Valjean deeply; he wouldn’t have been able to explain why, but he feared Javert might be a danger to himself.  “Come here,” he said instead, after a moment.

Valjean pulled Javert in after he approached with his sullen air, and kissed him.  Javert made no objection, and didn’t pull away, so he wrapped his arms around his neck and continued kissing him.  It took time, but he could feel the tension and the fight slowly melting out of Javert.  Whatever this was about, perhaps he could find a way through to him.  Ideas came to him.  Perhaps if words couldn’t reach Javert…

He lowered his hands, and gently pushed at Javert’s chest.  Javert, clearly in no mood to speak, took a step back with no protest.  Valjean pushed again, with another kiss.  Another step back.  Another.  He worked at the buttons of Javert’s waistcoat, freeing it and letting it drop to the floor.  Hands pressed to the too-thin fabric of Javert’s worn shirt, and another step. Valjean reached up to touch his lover’s face, then began to work the knots of Javert’s wine red cravat free.  Another step.  Javert had backed into the wall.

Javert lacked his usual eagerness, but he cooperated with Valjean as they both continued to undress.  He turned as though to head for their bed, but Valjean decisively blocked him with an arm.  “No,” he said.  “Here.”

Javert stared at him with some interest, as if in spite of himself.  Valjean pushed him hard against the wall, kissing him roughly.  Javert’s eyes shut, all the tension in him gone.  Yes, Valjean could see that he was on the right track.  He ran his hand down Javert’s body, and he shivered.  Valjean took the last step between them, and the full lengths of their bare bodies pressed together.  Javert felt rather cold to touch, and Valjean wondered with a pang of sympathy if he had been shivering with more than desire.  He would warm him.  They continued to kiss and touch, their bodies responding to one another.

With an inward curse, Valjean remembered the little bottle of oil.  He briefly thought that they could - but no, he didn’t want to risk hurting Javert.

“You stay put,” he told Javert, as he went to get it, and he was rather surprised that Javert obeyed silently.  He spread a small measure of oil over himself.

Returning his attention to Javert, Valjean once again pressed his lover’s back to the wall.  He grabbed the lean muscle of Javert’s ass, lifting up.  Javert was not a small man, but Valjean easily lifted him, and pinned Javert’s hips to the wall.  A slight smile had appeared on his face.  Javert’s long legs wrapped around Valjean’s waist, gripping him tightly in an attempt to help hold himself up.  His arms clung tightly to Valjean’s sturdy shoulders.  Valjean took a moment to savor the feeling of Javert in his arms like this, then carefully lowered him onto his cock.  He pushed his hips towards the wall for leverage.

“Oh my God, Jean,” Javert moaned softly, head flug back against the wall.

Valjean resettled his grip around Javert’s thighs, while Javert continued to grip him tightly around the shoulders.   For all his world weary attitude, Javert in passion always seemed to cling to him like a drowning man.  Valjean began moving his hips.

Javert cried out with each thrust that drove him against the wall.  He had never been especially quiet in bed, but this… Valjean spared a moment’s pity for the neighbors, but was quickly losing all rational thought as his own need took over.  He willed himself to slow down, each thrust reverberating through Javert’s whole body.  Javert moved one arm up to wrap around his neck, and their eyes met.  Valjean paused long enough to steal a kiss, and then returned to fucking Javert thoroughly; Javert’s cock caught in the friction between their bodies. He lost himself in the heat and luxury of skin on skin.  On a deep thrust in, Valjean leaned in and bit his lover gently on the shoulder.  Javert came with a low howl, suspended in his arms.  

Valjean looked at him fondly, and was shocked to see tears on his face.  He forgot about his own lust at the sight.  “Did I hurt you?” 

“No, God no.” 

Somewhat perplexed, Valjean withdrew from inside him slowly and set a boneless Javert down on the floor.  He sat down with him, and waited. 

“Are you all right?”  Valjean asked, when Javert said nothing.

“Thank you for that,” Javert said evasively.  “But you haven’t - not yet -” Javert reached for Valjean’s cock, still hard and wanting.

“Why -”

“Hush,” said Javert decisively.  He ran his hands over Valjean’s length, and Valjean could no longer think.  He gave himself over to Javert’s touch.  No longer supporting the weight of the man, no longer supporting anything, he surrendered and enjoyed.

Afterwards, Javert laid him out on the floor, kissing him leisurely from above.  All the earlier urgency was gone, and there were just the quiet, now familiar sensations of skin on skin, mouth on mouth.  

Valjean eventually sat up, then pulled Javert to his feet with a tender smile.  “Come to bed with me.”  

After washing up, they lay together contentedly with limbs intertwined.  Valjean felt utterly at peace, but he remembered now what it was he wanted to ask.  He was unsure how to go about it.

“Javert?  Is there anything you want to tell me?”

Javert was silent for a long moment, but Valjean could be a patient man. 

“I’ll have to tell you eventually, I suppose.  I was … let go from my post.”

“I see,” said Valjean, although he didn’t really understand.  Javert had known that this day was coming; he seemed to be taking this hard.  “Allard is replacing you as the head of the Sûreté?”

“Yes,” he replied slowly, as if it were a multisyllabic word.  He did not let go of Valjean’s waist.  “But what I mean is, I have been let go entirely.  Dismissed.  From the Sûreté, my post as inspector, everything.”

“What!  Why?”

“I don’t want to talk about it.”

“Javert.”

“Fine,” he said eventually.  “My superiors don’t like my having relations with a male ex-convict.”

Valjean sat up straight, looking at him in horror.  “Is there something I can do?” he asked eventually.  

“No.  I told Allard my personal life is none of their concern, and I will not make any concessions to their demands.”  He was looking over Valjean’s shoulder rather than at him.  

“What demands?!”

Javert seemed to realize that he had said too much, and he went silent.  His eyes closed.  “Valjean, I’ve had a hard day.  Perhaps we can talk about this another time.”

Valjean didn’t know what to think.  “All right, if you are sure,” he said, but his mind was working overtime.   Their demands, he thought.  Javert’s superiors had demanded something of him, and his refusal to comply had cost him his career.  He realized that in context, that could only have meant one thing.  Javert had been asked to stop seeing Valjean, as a condition for keeping his job.    

Meanwhile, Javert had settled back in to rest against him.  Valjean was wide awake, remembering that it was still quite early outside of the heavily shaded apartment. He should probably encourage Javert to get back up and make sure that he ate something for dinner.  “I’m hungry - do you think your portress has dinner ready now?” he asked, tentatively but trying not to let his uncertainty come through in his voice.

“Ah, that’s right, I had forgotten it wasn’t late.”  This was unlike Javert, thought Valjean.  Usually the man had a rather keen sense of time, but he must have been brooding since his dismissal earlier in the day and lost track of time.  “We’ll have to go down and find out, I suppose.”

They picked up their scattered clothes in silence, got dressed and went downstairs, where a thin stew was waiting for them along with slices of bread.  They ate in silence.  Javert seemed to have little appetite, and after Valjean had finished his bowl of stew, Javert pushed his over for him to finish as well.  

When they returned to their apartment, Valjean read aloud, but he found it far harder than normal to focus on the printed words.  It was a mechanical exercise, and he doubted that Javert, leaning against him, was paying much attention.  He badly wanted to ask him questions, find out more. Would Javert tolerate it?  He set down the book.  

“I know there’s something you aren’t telling me, Javert. And I think I know what it is.  I wish you would confide in me.”

Javert hemmed and hawed, but eventually the whole story came out.  Javert told Valjean everything - the dissolution of the Sûreté, the deal Allard had attempted to make, his own refusal.  His tone was blank - not the distress of earlier in the evening.  Valjean listened in silence, pained.  There wasn’t a word he could find to say that could make this right.  

The silence remained thick between the two of them.  They retired to bed shortly afterwards, their rather chaste kiss a contrast with their previous passion.  Javert managed to fall asleep despite the early hour, one arm thrown over his companion’s back.  Their desperate love making earlier in the evening seemed to have soothed something in him.

Valjean, however, was wide awake.  He felt the situation was his fault, even though he did not see that he had done anything wrong.  Perhaps getting this involved with Javert had been a mistake after all.  Perhaps he should have shown more discretion, and not shown up at the Prefecture or Sûreté offices to see Javert during the day.  Would that have been enough to avoid the gossip that had led to this juncture?

As he brooded, he thought back to something that had worried him earlier, at the beginning of his romantic involvement with Javert.  If Cosette had found out, if she had been horrified, and if she had given him an ultimatum, he knew what he would have done.  He could not sacrifice his daughter for anything.  Well.  Javert had no children, but Valjean thought he knew how much the man’s career meant to him.  Could he ask him to make a similar sacrifice?  It was not something that he could really relate to.  He had worked hard as a young man, but it was not an identity for him in the way that he felt Javert’s career had become an identity for him.  Even as the owner of the jetworks factory, he had felt as though he was borrowing time, borrowing against someone else’s life.  He was reminded again that Javert had taken a very different path.  Could he allow Javert to sacrifice that path now? 

He thought back to when he himself had been Javert’s superior.  The man had always strived to do his duty, as he perceived it, flawlessly, and to be irreproachable in his conduct.  To lose his position in disgrace was a harsh punishment that he had never wished on the man, especially not on his own behalf.  Would he allow it to happen now?

Valjean continued to lay awake, tossing and turning but taking care not to awaken Javert, who slept soundly.  Asleep, he showed no signs of his earlier distress.  Watching him, Valjean thought that he knew what he must do.  If Javert did not have the nerve to leave him, he must have the will to do it for him.  He would take away the burden of that decision from him.  It would be a final gift to the man he loved. He knew that to do so would cause them both agony.  But he could not live with the guilt of knowing what his presence had cost Javert, and having done nothing.  

And yet, having come to this conclusion, Valjean doubted himself.   Who was he to make decisions for Javert?, a small voice inside asked.  He replied that he, Valjean, was merely reacting to circumstances - that it was in fact Javert’s superiors at the prefecture who had been overstepping in that manner, forcing decisions on him.  

He cursed Javert’s stubbornness and pride.  The man had not been able to do what needed to be done, when confronted by his superiors.  Had he done so, Valjean would not be facing this treacherous temptation: to say nothing, to do nothing; and in doing so, to damn Javert.  

Valjean had long feared that his past could come back to harm an innocent, as he raised Cosette.  He had done everything in his power to prevent this, including ensuring that M. Gillenormand knew him as Cosette’s guardian rather than as her birth father.  Now, after he had thought he was sheltered by the comparative safety of a pardon, his fears had been realized, except that it had somehow been Javert and not Cosette who was harmed.  He would not stand for this.  He would not have this on his conscience.  

Valjean quietly got out of bed and attempted to gather his things in the dark.  Light from the streetlamps did not reach high enough to illuminate Javert’s apartment, and the moon was not shining bright enough to help.  He lit a single small candle as quietly as he could, placing his body between the light and Javert.  That done, he dressed quickly and quietly, took one last long look at his sleeping friend, and left without a word.  

I’m not sure if the actual, historical Allard was homophobic, but, you know. Seems probable. If not, my apologies to him.


Valjean held his emotions in check while he made his way to the apartment on Rue de l'Homme Armé.  The night sky was dim, with only a patch where the moonlight brightened the overcast clouds.  Luckily, the walk home from Javert’s apartment in Rue Paveé was a short one, and he did not run into any trouble.



While he walked, he thought frantically.  He knew that Javert would first try to find him at his apartment, upon waking alone.  He must ensure that Javert did not find him.  It would be painful, but it would be better this way.  A clean break would be best, with no chance to argue.  Valjean doubted that he had the strength to argue about this with Javert, if it came to that.  He had to ensure that it did not.  His instinct for flight was beginning to take over.   In a way, he had been preparing for this moment for many years.  Of the three properties that he had once rented in Paris to ensure that he would always have ready refuge from Javert and the police, he still leased two.  Valjean had never mentioned his recently abandoned home on Rue Plumet to Javert.  He had, he thought, at one time alluded to having had more than one address in Paris in the past, but Javert had not pressed for details.  



Cosette must not tell him anything, or give anything away about Valjean’s whereabouts.  This is what became of allowing Javert and Cosette to know one another:  it was much harder than it had to be.  She liked Javert and would not willingly lie to him or help Valjean keep away from him.  The only way to be sure she would reveal nothing was to make certain that Cosette herself did not know where he was.



Shortly after Valjean made it home, Cosette came out of her bedroom.  She wore an ivory nightgown, carried an unlight bronze candlestick, and her eyes were wide with fright before she saw Valjean.  



“Papa!  What are you doing, coming home so late at night?  You frightened me!  Is everything all right?”  



He sighed.  “Everything will be fine, my dear. Please, put that down.”  He gestured to the candlestick, which she handled as if it were a weapon.  She had apparently forgotten this, and set it down and carefully lit the candle.  



“Listen, I have to go away for a while.  A short journey.  I have urgent business in 
Pas-de-Calais that I must attend to,” Valjean said.



“And you wake me in the middle of the night to tell me?!  But why now?  Even for you this is sudden.”  Cosette was used to Valjean’s eccentricity, and he had traveled without her to manage his finances in the past (a procedure requiring a shovel).  He and Cosette had been accustomed to moving among the three properties he had taken in Paris.  He had generally given her more notice than this, but even this was not without precedent.  They left their apartment on Rue de l’Ouest on a moment’s notice when Marius had asked too many questions of the porter, and then again had left the house on Rue Plumet suddenly on the eve of the uprising in June.  



He had thought of asking her to accompany him this time, as well, but decided against it.  He knew that two things were true:  she would be heartbroken if Valjean insisted that they both stop their visits to Marius, and that it would occur to Javert to intercept him on their daily visits.  He had mentioned these visits often enough, and of course Javert knew where the boy lived.  She could only continue to visit him without Valjean.



“Something has come up,” he told her evasively, thinking of all this and not having prepared a handy lie.



“Are you going to tell me what?” Cosette asked with an edge to her voice.



“Hopefully not.”



Cosette shook her head in annoyance, or disbelief, or more likely both.  After a moment, she continued, “With you gone, how will I know how my Marius is doing?”



“You may go to him with Toussaint to accompany you.  Only, I must leave tonight.”



“Tonight!  But I was thinking that you must mean tomorrow, at the earliest.  Don’t you need to wait for the diligence tomorrow?”



“I’m afraid not.  It’s an urgent matter and I’ve arranged other transportation.”  He hesitated.  He knew he was on uncertain ground, and it would not be easy to cover his tracks.  He would prefer to say nothing at all about what had happened to Cosette, but then what would happen when an enraged Javert showed up at the door?  Surely he would track Cosette down, and ask questions.  He must prepare her in some way, or who knows what she might say?  That had been why he had given her the false destination - she would not have to knowingly lie to Javert if she did not know the truth.  And he did not want Javert to be searching Paris for him. 



“Cosette?” he said.  “Javert may … be angry with me.  If he comes to visit you, please just let him know that I have gone, and where.  He doesn’t need to know anything else.”



“What?  What did you do?  Are you very cross with him?”  A note of angry suspicion had entered her voice, but Valjean was not sure what exactly she suspected.



Valjean sighed.  “Javert can be…persistent.  I need you to hold firm - you are not to tell him anything.”



“I bet he doesn’t like it when you are all mysterious like this.  Is that why he is mad at you?”  



“He’s not mad at me,” he said, rather at odds with his previous statement.  

Yet,

 he added in his mind. He was desperate to disengage from this conversation and to get going.  It had occurred to him that Javert might wake up and find him missing at any time.  



Valjean went to his room and packed up a few things to take with him, spare clothes and the like.  He was bitterly distracted, but knew that it would look even more irregular if he failed to pack anything for the journey he was supposedly making.  In addition to the small suitcase, he grabbed the little valise that always accompanied him, and took both out to the main room of the apartment.  He was unsure when he would be able to return.  Cosette was still there, watching him with her arms crossed, a pensive look on her lovely face.  He bade her goodbye, advising her to go back to sleep, telling her to take good care of herself, and reminding her again to send Javert away with as little information as possible.



***



Despite the late hour, Valjean found a hackney coach outside after walking to a more frequented street, and was able to make it to Rue Plumet without incident.  He made his way to his house there via the hidden back alley on Rue de Babylone, rather than approaching the front gate of the house.  It did not matter - Javert was unaware of either entrance to the home, but some instincts remained strong in his mind.



At first, it was with a sense of deep relief that Valjean settled down in the small lodge where he had lived behind the main house.  The instinctual relief of a creature having made it to its burrow before the hounds arrived:  a feeling familiar to Valjean.  But it wasn’t long before everything that he had done that night came back to him and hit him hard.  While he was in motion, driven by purpose, Valjean was able to keep his emotions at bay.  Now, at rest, all the feeling which he had compartmentalized away came flooding in.  



Grief predominated.  Javert was gone, and it was his own doing.  He had been so alone for so long during his life.  To finally have found happiness with Javert, and then to have it suddenly taken away, and for such a reason, was more than he could bear.  If he had never discovered this vulnerability in himself, he would not now be facing this pain. He felt he would collapse under the pain of this loss.  His memories tormented him with thoughts of the time the two of them had spent together; his mind taunted him with the imagined thoughts that he had dared to have of a happy future with Javert.  



Something else was dawning in his heart, something that he had thought he had long since exorcized:  hopeless rage.  Valjean found himself furious with Javert’s superiors: Allard, Gisquet, whomever.  Surely Javert had given them no real reason to complain of his service, or else they would have spoken of it earlier.  Valjean knew he was biased in favor of his lover, but he had known of Javert’s work ethic, honesty, and zeal from personal experience supervising the man himself, in Montreuil-sur-Mer.  No, this had not been a mere excuse to rid the prefecture of a burden of an agent.  There was then no alternative but to take it at face value that Javert had been dismissed due to the details of his personal life being judged unseemly.  Valjean fumed.  



But the anger he felt was to no avail.  There was no way that his being mad about the situation could change it.  Because of this, he did not think that he had made the wrong choice in choosing to break things off with Javert.   He had done the best that he could for Javert in a difficult situation.  He told himself that this was no different than when he had saved Marius for Cosette’s sake - although his actions caused him to lose the one he loved, true love lay in ensuring their happiness.  He had to hope now that it would be enough.  That Javert would be able to regain his post, re-establish his reputation, and in time rebuild a life that he wanted to live.  Perhaps, and here his heart was in agony, perhaps Javert would eventually find someone else to share his life.  Someone more respectable; who would not set foot in the police stations, Sûreté or otherwise; someone whose presence could be tolerated in exchange for Javert’s dedicated service.  The thought tore him up.  



What good was his pardon if his past was still to come back to haunt him and the people he loved?  He had to ask himself, how much of the current situation was because he was a former criminal, and how much was because he was a man?  He knew very well that such relations were frowned upon in polite society.  To hear him tell it, though, Javert’s superiors had been aware of his one time relationship with Isaac and had done nothing.  



Grief and anger spiraled around, keeping him awake, making him pace the floor as he had done on the night he had so agonized about whether to let Javert into his heart and life in the first place.  It was the middle of the next day before Valjean was able to fall asleep, finally exhausted in his grief.



Javert was at the very end of his patience.  “He went 

where?

” he shouted at Cosette.  



He had not been alarmed when he woke up to find Valjean gone, although he was disappointed.  He was unwilling to admit to the man exactly how much he liked waking up with Valjean next to him.  That powerful frame, stronger than any other man he had known, was capable of such gentleness.  Javert liked to have one of Valjean’s arms flung over him possessively; liked even better to be pressed against his torso. It quite made up for the other man’s annoying tendency to wake first and move around.



He got out of bed and looked for Valjean in the kitchen, where he had rather hoped the man would be making a pot of coffee.   He was a little sore, but the memory of why was pleasant enough.  The thought came crashing in that he would no longer need to be going to work; still, one might as well face the day with dignity and coffee.



Valjean was not in the kitchen.  Perhaps he had stepped out to speak with the portress, or on some little errand.  Javert waited impatiently, beginning to make the coffee himself.  He took a lap restlessly around the apartment, scanning the surfaces for anything Valjean might have left resembling a note.  He found nothing.  



He had waited longer, lingering over his first cup of coffee and beginning to be annoyed.  This was unprecedented - Valjean had never left in the morning without saying goodbye before.  With his second cup of coffee, Javert found himself torn between anger and worry.  What reason could there be for this sudden change in behavior?   He worried that some emergency had come up - perhaps Valjean had gotten word of some trouble with Cosette, or that dim young man that she was so fond of.  But that didn’t explain why he had failed to wake Javert.  Javert knew he wasn’t so sound of a sleeper that he could not be easily woken.  Valjean could have at least left a note - a small desk stood ready near the bed had Valjean wanted it.  It was unlike Valjean to be this thoughtless.  He would have an explanation from the man when he found him, that was for sure, Javert thought, clenching his jaw.



All this new unease was combining in Javert with the distress of the day before.  He got up, increasingly agitated and determined to go to Valjean.  



He had expected to find Valjean at his own apartment, on Rue de l'Homme Armé, perhaps called back on some urgent matter or another. Now Javert found himself there, but with no Valjean in sight, arguing with the man’s daughter.



Cosette looked nervous, but held her ground.  “
Pas-de-Calais, I told you.  I don’t know how long he will be away.”
  



Was Valjean in some kind of trouble?  Regardless of what Cosette had said, Javert felt it was very unlikely that Valjean had left the city.  All those years of pursuit, of Javert being aware of his presence, and he had never left.  It seemed unlikely that that would be his first response now.  Whether Cosette was lying to him, or whether Valjean had lied to Cosette - that was the question.  If it was the latter, he was wasting his time here.  Unless…unless Valjean had been telling the truth?  Was it possible that some emergency had really taken him to Pas-de-Calais?  



“I don’t suppose he told you why?”



“He never does,” Cosette said wistfully. 



Javert bit his lip hard in annoyance.  He suspected that Valjean had lied to Cosette - the girl seemed sincere.  



“Don’t you want to come inside?”  Cosette asked him.  “Toussaint is just putting away breakfast.”



“No,” he stated stonily, then tried to remember his manners.  “No, thank you, mademoiselle.  I have something I need to attend to.  Please tell your father to get in touch with me the next time you see him.”



He regretted it nearly as soon as he had turned away.  It was true, Javert did not want to sit down to a late breakfast with Cosette.  But even if Valjean had lied to her about his destination, surely there was something she knew, in general, that he could glean from conversation with her.  



Javert stalked down the street, brooding and going nowhere in particular, more completely aimless than he had been since he was a boy.  `



***



By that evening, Javert was fully convinced that something was wrong, but he was still in the dark about what.  The day had been long and tiresome, with too little to do and too much time for unpleasant introspection while he waited to hear from Valjean.  He could go out into Paris and try to track the man down, but he had little idea of where to start.  



His thoughts had gotten darker as the day progressed.  At first he had wondered if Valjean could have been abducted again by that scoundrel Thenardier, who was still at large as far as Javert knew.  But that would not explain why he had left so silently from the apartment in the morning.  No, he would have heard any struggle that took place in his own apartment.  As he could not imagine what kind of emergency could have been brought to Valjean’s attention without he himself becoming aware of it, Javert was forced to suppose that Valjean had left purely voluntarily. 



Had Valjean 

wanted 

to disappear?  And if so, why?  Javert wondered if he had given offense somehow.  He didn’t see how.  If the man had managed to forgive him for all the previous years of their history together, it made no sense that he would react so strongly to some slight that Javert had not even been aware of giving.  No, in the time he had known him, Valjean had always been astoundingly quick to forgive.



Was it something to do with the loss of his job?  Javert had not seen Allard’s actions coming, and had been deeply distressed.  However, Valjean was not invested in Javert’s career the way he was.  His affection was certainly not dependent on Javert remaining in the police.  If anything, Valjean had seemed to resent the amount of time that was taken up by Javert’s job.  Certainly the money that he had been earning would have meant nothing to Valjean.  



Javert became freshly agitated again, thinking about the loss of his position.  He raged with the injustice of it, but there was no one that he could appeal to, if Prefect Gisquet himself had agreed with the decision.  He felt keenly the loss of his whole career, to which he had applied himself for nearly his entire adult life.  In the past, he had always had a goal towards which he oriented himself.  During his time in the 
Grande Armée
, during their disastrous retreat from Russia, Javert had known defeat.  He had not expected to survive, but he made his way towards Paris anyway.  He had a direction that he could head; a new purpose he could serve.  Perhaps that had saved his life, when he was wounded and adrift, by giving him a direction he could hang on to.  Now he was lost, without purpose.  



And yet despite the blow he had received the previous day, it was nothing compared with the loss of Valjean today.  He had become deeply attached to the man in a rather short amount of time.  He didn’t know what he would do if some bad fate had truly befallen Valjean, or if he simply decided that he no longer wanted to be with a failed police inspector.  



His pride balked at the idea of trying to find Valjean if he did not in fact want to be found.  But without word from him, how was Javert to know whether he was in some kind of distress?  Javert sat quietly, head in his hands, adrift in painful thoughts.  He was wracked with indecision.



***



Toussaint used to do the shopping for the household at Rue Plumet, and of course since no one had lived there in over two months, there was no food in the larder.  Or nothing that could still be called food.  They had left so suddenly that not everything had been cleared out, but mice had carried off whatever hadn't been badly spoiled.  



On the first day there, Valjean recognized that he needed to go out and shop for food, if he did not intend to take his meals at one of the scarce eating establishments in this part of the city.  He told himself that it would be better if he stayed inside as much as possible, and so he did not want to visit a restaurant or public house.  He waited until late afternoon, and then made his way to a baker’s that he knew of nearby.  He bought a single loaf of bread - cheap black bread, the kind that Cosette didn’t like him eating. When he got home, he set it on the small table in the lodge. 



Despite not having eaten all day, the bread seemed off-putting now that he had it.  He broke off a small portion, and bit in.  The bread seemed to him to have no taste.  He chewed slowly, and swallowed as if it were a chore.  He ate several more bites from the small piece of bread he held, and then gave up.  



On the second day, he felt relieved that he did not have to go out for food.  There was still most of the loaf of bread.  He drew a bucket of water from the nearby well, and drank from that, but he had no wish to go out and find anything heartier.  Nor did he feel like he had the energy to cook anything himself.  



Having thus reassured himself that there was enough to eat and drink in the small lodge, Valjean then did not take the next step of actually eating and drinking it.  He picked at the bread again, eating very little.  



By the next day, the mice had come for the remaining stale bread.  Valjean hardly noticed. 



***



Valjean had every intention of writing a note to Javert to explain himself.  Several times, he sat down at the small, rough wooden table in his porter’s lodge, and willed himself to write.  He could never find the words for what he wanted to express.  His feelings of guilt over what he had done increased every time he fumbled unsuccessfully with pen and ink.  



He could still try and make things the way they used to be, his mind told him treacherously.  He could find Javert, and ask him to forgive him.  He knew the man would be angry, but he liked to think he would be forgiven in time.  But this was selfish thinking.  What he had done would have been for nothing if he went back and found Javert now.  Who was he to force the burden of his past back onto his friend?  



He shoved the paper to the ground, and went outside to brood in the overgrown garden.  The letter remained unwritten.



***



By the fourth day, Valjean had begun to feel weak, and dizzy.  Perhaps he was getting ill, he thought, and he stayed in bed that day.  He really felt no motivation to get up, so it was no real sacrifice.  He picked up a book at one point, stared at the pages apathetically for a while, and then set it down again.  There was no one he was planning on seeing, and no where he was planning on going. He failed to eat or drink, and by evening, his condition had rather predictably declined.   



***



Wounded deeply, Javert had come to a conclusion.  He would not hunt down Valjean again.  If the man wanted to find him, on the off chance that he had been telling the truth about the trip to 
Pas-de-Calais, he knew exactly where Javert could be found.  That is to say, he did not intend to use any extraordinary measures to find Valjean.  He was not able to resist the temptation to visit the man’s house every day, speaking briefly with Cosette and asking if Valjean had been home since the last time he had visited.  The answer, of course, was always no.  



Every time he saw her, concern was written more clearly across her face.  Was she worried about her father, as well?  Again, Javert wondered how much she might know and be hiding from him.  He visited her one afternoon, the fifth one since he had last seen Valjean, having already come by in the morning.  Perhaps this second visit on the same day made an impression on her.  Once they had gotten through what pleasantries Javert could manage, and established that Valjean was not yet home, Cosette looked as though she still had more to say.



“Monsieur Javert,” she said with a note of reluctance.  “Have you and Papa been fighting?”



“No, not that I’m aware of,” he replied with keen interest.  “Why do you ask?”



“It’s just that…I suppose I can tell you this…it’s just that I feel bad for you, coming all the way over here every day, twice even.  I can tell you that my father gave me instructions not to tell you anything if you came around, so there’s really nothing more I can tell you.  I suppose he can’t very well get mad at me for telling you that.”



“Not to -” Javert started.  The blow crushed him.  He could feel himself giving way before it.  So Valjean had left him, deliberately, and wanted to ensure that he had nothing more to do with Javert.  His reasons - did they even matter?  Clearly the man did not want to discuss anything.  “I see,” he said to Cosette.  His head was downturned, trying to hide his turmoil from her. He attempted to gather his thoughts together, to put together his feelings into something orderly.



“I’m sorry,” she said quietly.  



“Goodbye, mademoiselle,” Javert said with a stiff bow.  Avoiding her eye, he turned on his heel and retreated down the hall.  



“Monsieur, wait!”  Cosette hurried down the hall, caught up to Javert, and caught his arm.  He was unable to hide the annoyance in his glance, to his own shame.  “If I see Papa, I’ll tell him that I am very angry at him for not leaving any word for you, when you yourself are so loyal a friend as to come by every day.”



Javert had to smile slightly at that.  “You are very kind,” he said with only a hint of irony.



The sun was still shining high when Javert exited onto the street.  The weather was especially fine that afternoon, and Javert felt vaguely angry about it.  He wandered in no particular direction, as was becoming his habit.  Perhaps, if fate allowed, he might run into Jean Valjean again, but that was not his aim.  He had no aim.



He found himself leaning on the parapet at le Quai de la Mégisserie.  He looked around, watching the river, watching people come and go about their business, but without seeing them.  Valjean was deliberately pushing him away; that was the refrain that would not stop running through his head.  And to think that Cosette had seen him as weak and taken pity on him!  Or perhaps she simply wanted to avoid any future visits from him.  It was not to be born.  When he saw Valjean next, he would have some stern words for him.  

If 

he saw Valjean again, he corrected himself glumly.  Javert felt sick at the thought.  He loved the man.  Perhaps it was his fault for not making this clearer to Valjean.  He had thought Valjean understood.  Valjean’s present motives were opaque to him.  Javert sighed.  The twin blows of losing his career, and then losing Valjean were more than he felt he could bear.  



He looked appraisingly out over the river in his grief.  He could do it.  The plan that he and Vidocq had carefully put together, those months ago, in order to fool the Patron-Minette into thinking he was dead - he smiled a bitter smile.  There was an odd sense of satisfaction to the idea.  Just knowing that he had what he needed at hand was oddly soothing to Javert.  Nothing elaborate this time, no reliance on other people and their inconvenient sense of mercy, no Jean Valjean.  No Jean Valjean.  Just a rather short drop and the river would take him.  It would be well:  the river was a force of nature.  It couldn’t be reasoned with, couldn’t show mercy.  But it was beautiful, in a way.  It would be more than fitting.  More than he deserved.



After all, was there any reason not to?  Nothing came to mind.  He supposed that he should search harder for a reason, but he could not bring himself to care.  There were no reasons, only pain and that hard emptiness that had taken hold of him again.  He couldn’t think. 



He had been a fool - worse than a fool - these last few months.  He had grown to care for Valjean, and admire the man, even before he had made any sort of peace with him.  He had thought that perhaps the unhappiness which had dogged him for over a decade now might be able to lift.  That he might be able to live a life free of the crushing black cloud that had overwhelmed him that day his Isaac had been shot.



If he could not be free of these feelings, perhaps it was better to simply let the river have him.  He was getting too old, he would not be able to start over again, and what good would it do, anyway, when he knew that the seeds of this black despair had always been inside of him?  They waited only for the right conditions, a twisted form of spring, to grow wild in his soul.  



Suddenly Javert was torn out of his reverie.  He heard a voice that he very much feared that he recognized call out his name.   “Javert?  Oh my, I thought it was you!”  He turned around, and it was as he had feared.  Somehow Coco Lacour was heading straight at him. The man was trailing a fishing pole, of all things.  



“I had been fishing off of Pont au Change, when I saw you!”  Lacour said.  Javert had forgotten that this was how the man liked to spend his days.  “What are you doing here?”



“Just taking the air, Marie.”  He gazed past the other man, rather than at him.  Lacour, on the other hand, stared intently into his eyes, as though he hoped to discover some secret there.



“Don’t give me that.  I’m not an idiot.”  His voice changed; softened.  “Were you planning on…”



“I have no plans.  A man can look at the Seine, can’t he?”



“Yes, that’s the trouble, isn’t it?  You have no plans.  I may not be in the Sûreté anymore, but I still keep my ears open.  I know what happened between you and that bastard Allard.”



Javert didn’t answer, but glared daggers at Lacour.



“I don’t understand, though.  You knew that there was a risk;  you all knew that changes were coming to the Sûreté.  Surely you wouldn’t…just because…Javert,” he breathed, voice going quieter, and leaning in closer.  “I know how you feel about me, God knows I do.  But anyone would tell you the same thing.”



“Which is?” Javert asked, leaning away.  



“That whatever it is, it’s not worth your life.”  When Javert did not reply, Lacour huffed.  “Is this somehow about that friend of yours; that big brute?”



Javert straightened up.  He loomed over the much shorter man.  “He is none of your business.”



“I see.”  Lacour studied him.  “If I told you that you are too good for him, would you listen?”



“You had better not tell me that, if you know what’s good for you.”  Javert’s voice had lowered and acquired a menacing tone.



“What shall I tell you then?” asked Lacour, undeterred.



“Tell me nothing!  I haven’t asked you to tell me anything.”



“Come on, Javert.  Alexandre.  Come have a drink with me.  You obviously need the company.” 



“Clearly you know enough of recent events to guess that I am in no mood for your nonsense.  Leave me in peace,” Javert said in a low growl.  In his conscious mind, he was furious.  But fury was an emotion, and perhaps this was the best thing which could have happened to him.  Fending off Coco Lacour’s advances actually put a little life back into him.



“I only want to talk,” protested Lacour.  



“I don’t care what you want.  Goodbye.”  With that, Javert stalked off to the northeast, traveling away from the Seine.  He was still in a terrible mood, but there was no chance that he could find peace in the river now, not during the day with Coco of all people watching him.  He did not notice or care that Lacour watched him leave, then took off quickly in much the same direction.



***



On the fifth day of his voluntary isolation, Valjean lay in bed, thinking about nothing in particular.  The hours would have felt slow, had he any sense of time left.  He felt weak, unfocused; lost.  He heard a loud banging on the front door.  He supposed that he should get up.  The banging continued.  He got up, and opened the door to find Vidocq standing outside.  



“What the devil are you doing in there?” Vidocq asked.  “Christ, you are a mess.”  



Valjean had neither brushed his hair nor trimmed his normally well-manicured beard.  He was down to his shirtsleeves, and lack of food and water made him look gaunt and ill.  



“Monsieur Vidocq.  Good -”



“Don’t ‘Monsieur Vidocq’ me.  I have half a mind to have you arrested.”  In his surprise at suddenly having received a guest, Valjean had not noticed until now that Vidocq was irate.  



“For what?” he asked with a start.  “I got my pardon, didn’t you hear?”



“A shame, if it’s true.  I’m sure that I can think of something, though.”



“But how did you find me here?  I doubt you followed me…”  Valjean’s mind was a bit foggy, and he decided to deal with one of his questions at a time.  When was the last time he had left the property?



“It wasn’t hard.  I only had to check with the National Guard’s records for one ‘Ultime 
Fauchelevent.’  They still have your address as being here at the Rue Plumet, you know.”



Valjean felt a little pang of guilt.  



“The hardest part was getting the lock open.  That gate is well and truly rusting shut,” Vidocq continued.  



“But why have you come at all?”



“You idiot, why do you think I’m here?”



“You have word from Javert?”



“You could say that.  Coco just found him on a quay this afternoon, a vacant look in his eye.  Said he looked as though he were going to jump.”



Valjean gasped in horror, but Vidocq waved him silent.  As he listened to Vidocq continue to speak, fear began to cut through the fog that had surrounded Valjean.



“He didn’t.  Lacour came right to me; he didn’t know what else to do, said that he knew that Javert wouldn’t listen to a word he said.  But that he might listen to me.  Luckily I was in this afternoon - after Lacour found me, I went out looking for Javert.  I figured it was something to do with you. I had two of my agents who happened to be in the office today watch the banks of the Seine for a great gloomy giraffe, while I headed to his apartment.  I figured, if he headed back to work, he was probably fine, but Coco had seen him heading back in the direction of his home.  I found him there, brooding.  In the middle of the day!  I soon got the full story out of him, that idiot.”  



“So he tells me that he’s lost his job.  That, perhaps, I can do something about.  But when I really pressed, he tells me that you took off while he was sleeping days ago, and he hasn’t heard a word from you since!  He’s in the dark about your motives.  Do you not realize how upset he is?  Do you simply not care?  And so now I’m here with you as Javert’s friend, not as his employer, and I’m here to ask you What,” he said, punctuating each of his next words with a hard tap to Valjean’s chest.  “Is. The. Meaning. Of. This.”



“Peace,” Valjean said, taking a step back.  “Why don’t you come inside and we can talk it over.”  



Vidocq entered the small lodge reluctantly, and Valjean offered him one of the plain straw-bottomed chairs.  Some dim part of Valjean sighed with relief upon sitting - the shock of the news which Vidocq brought had startled him awake, but he was still deeply exhausted.  Vidocq gave him a look which indicated that he was nowhere near appeased.  As he looked around the small, one room lodge, he asked, “Is this really how you live?  Javert was saying that you are rich.  I knocked on the door of the main house for ages, but no one answered.  I only tried out here in case a servant might know when you were coming back.”



“I live a simple life,” Valjean said, dismissing most of what the other man had said or implied.



“And are you well?” Vidocq asked, examining his face more closely.   “You look as though you could faint at any moment.”



“I’m well enough,” lied Valjean, trying to gather together all his strength into a show of health.



“Then let’s get down to business.  I will have from you an explanation for how you have treated Javert these last few days, even if you are not going to deign to give one to him.”



“Well,” started Valjean.  “You more than anyone else know how important Javert’s work is to him.  I’ve seen many times how devoted he is to it.  A few days ago, his new head, that Allard, confronted him about his relationship with me, and he lost his post.”



“Yes, I know all this already.”



“From Javert?”  Vidocq nodded his assent and Valjean continued, “Did he tell you the deal he was offered?  Allard had actually wanted him to continue to work for the police, as an ordinary inspector, on the condition that he give up his relationship with me.  Apparently I am not a good look for the Sûreté,”  he added as a bitter aside.



“He did not mention that detail to me.”  Vidocq’s frown deepened.



“Javert refused to make any concessions.  I know that you know how stubborn he can be.  So of course he lost his job instead.  When he let that slip…I couldn’t live with being the cause of that.  I thought that if I took myself out of the equation, made up Javert’s mind for him, he would be able to salvage his career.  It seemed like the best thing to do.”



“And you didn’t think to discuss this with him at all?  You just decided to up and leave without saying a word?”



“Well, as I said, you know how stubborn he is -”



“Oh, I know all right,” said Vidocq darkly.  “I’ve seen how stubborn he is when he gets attached to a man.  And God help me, he seems to be attached to you.”  Vidocq shook his head and lowered his voice. “I can’t say that I really love Javert’s

 antiphysique

 tastes, myself, but good God, you would think the man could at least make better choices.  It’s as though he’s determined to destroy himself.”  



Valjean wondered if the man was being deliberately insulting, or if he had simply gotten caught up in his own rant.  Anger had not yet made its way through his fog and his fear for Javert.



“Do you think he would really do it?”



“Yes!  You think I have nothing better to do with my time than come and pay you a social call, monsieur?  I’m here because I’ve invested too much in Javert over the years to watch him kill himself now, which, mind you, I think he will.”  



“And you left him 

alone

?”






“Well, what was I supposed to do?  Drag him here by the collar?  I gave him a good lecture before I left him.”



“A lecture,” said Valjean.  This wasn’t right.  This wasn’t right at all.  How could it have come to this?  How could he have harmed Javert so badly, all while attempting to protect him?  And now Vidocq was here, flinging accusations in his face, and acting as though 

a lecture

 might stand between Javert and … it did not bear thinking about.  



“And I took his shaving kit.  And the knife from his kitchen.  His penknife, and a rope I found.  I looked for his pistols, but I couldn’t find any firearms.  I don’t know where they have gone.”



“He let you do all this?” Valjean asked incredulously.



“He’s used to following my orders.  I fully expect to see him alive next time we run into each other, and I made my expectations clear to him.  Now as for you,” Vidcoq continued, “I expect you to go and make things right with him.  I don’t care if you don’t want to continue seeing him, but you need to tell him that, and tell him why.  Tell him what you told me.  You say that you think you are acting on his behalf?  Well, he deserves an explanation, you great fool.  Maybe if you do, he will come down off this ledge he’s insisted on putting himself upon.”



“But -” Valjean went to protest that surely Vidocq could not understand what he was asking of him, but perhaps he did.  Perhaps Vidocq could understand more than most. “How can I live with the knowledge that my past has caused so much harm to an innocent person, one whom I care for so much?  Javert didn’t deserve to lose his job like that - it was my fault.”



Vidocq gave a bitter, humorless laugh.  “How are you going to live with the knowledge that Javert has thrown himself off a bridge because your frankly idiotic actions have caused him to despair?” 



“I-”



“I don’t want to hear it.  If you are telling the truth, and you really do care for Javert, you will stop this nonsense and go to him.  I will escort you there myself, now, if I have to.  My tilbury is waiting for me outside.”



Valjean knew he had no choice.  He must go to Javert.  If he had been less concerned about Javert, or in better health himself, perhaps he would have resented being ordered around by Vidocq, and dragged off like a disobedient schoolboy.  But protest or defiance were the last things on Valjean’s mind.   



“Very well,” he said.  “Let’s go.”  As he spoke, Valjean rose quickly, not wanting to waste a moment if Javert might be in danger.  As he did, his ears rang and everything went gray.  He fell.



When he woke up,  Vidocq was standing over him.



“You fainted.  What the hell is wrong with you?” he asked, looking Valjean up and down.  



“I’ve just been feeling poorly the last few days,” evaded Valjean.  



“Is there anyone else here?  A servant or anyone?”





“No, I’ve been taking some time on my own.”



Vidocq looked at him strangely, then looked around the lodge again.  Seeing a pail of water, he fetched it, dipped in a mug that he found, and brought it over to where Valjean still sat on the floor.



“Drink this.  It’s just water, but maybe that’s for the best.”



Valjean was in no position to argue, so he drank the cup of water.  It was embarrassing to be scolded and ordered around by the man, but as he was trying to remember the last time he had drank water, he had to admit that Vidocq had a point.  He stood, and this time remained standing.  



Seemingly convinced that Valjean was not going to faint again, Vidocq led the way outside.  Part of Valjean, the part which had utterly given up, was surprised to be out walking in the open air again.  The two of them crossed the courtyard and rambling front garden, and came out to where Vidocq had left his horse and tilbury tied to the fence outside the house.  


The ride was long.  The two men were pressed closely together in the elegant but small private tilbury which Vidocq drove himself with some degree of skill.  Valjean watched the graceful trot of the tidy chestnut horse pulling the vehicle, trying not to think about his situation or the scene to come.  They slowed to a walk as they neared the city center where the streets grew more crowded.  After passing over the Île de la Cité, they finally arrived at Javert’s apartment building on Rue Paveé.

“I pray that he’s still here,” murmured Valjean.

“Hmm.  I’ll wait here,” said Vidocq.  “My job is only to get you here - I have no interest in being part of your lover’s reunion.”

Valjean knocked, and the short wait for the portress to arrive seemed interminable.  She let him in.

“Goodness, Monsieur Valjean, are you feeling well today?” asked Madame Verne with a start, when she got a closer look at him.

“I’m fine, madame, thank you.”

“You really don’t look it.  And I haven’t seen you in a while.  How long has it been?” she asked.

“I’m afraid I really need to be going,” said Valjean, desperate to excuse himself.  He waved her off with as much politeness as he could manage at the moment.

He attempted to run up the stairs, but his neglected body soon made it clear that that was not going to be an option.  He was still weak and exhausted, and made his way up slowly.  He consoled himself with the thought that Javert would have to pass him on the stairs if he were trying to make his way out of the apartment.  If, that is, he was still in the building to begin with.  If he was still… no, Valjean could not bring himself to finish that thought.  With a last burst of energy, he made his way to the third floor.  

Valjean stopped, catching his breath for a second.  He was so tired, and he felt he would need his strength for what was about to occur.  Then he made his way to Javert’s door and knocked.  Without meaning to, he held his breath.  The door opened, and he released the breath and nearly all the tension inside of him that had helped propel him up the stairs.  His relief was palpable, and to his horror, he found that he could not stop himself from grinning in relief.  

What must Javert think of him, to have disappeared for these last five days, and now to show up on his doorstep with no warning, grinning like an idiot?

“Well.” Javert said coldly.

“I’m here,” said Valjean.  He had not planned out what he was going to say, which was perhaps a mistake.

“I can see that.”  Javert had not moved from where he stood in the doorway.  He neither approached Valjean, nor moved to allow him to enter.  He did not speak any further.  He was a study in negation.  

“Javert, I - I need to talk with you.  Can we go inside?”  He felt exposed in the hallway, and also he badly wanted a sign of welcome from Javert.

“As you wish.”  Javert moved aside to let him in, with no additional warmth to his manner.

“Javert, I’m so sorry,” said Valjean as soon as the door closed behind them.

“About which part?”

“About all of it.  About leaving you like that, mostly.”

Javert stood with his arms folded, not moving to sit down or offer Valjean a seat.  

“Why?  Why did you leave without a word like that?”

Valjean paused, as though if he could only find the right words to explain, Javert would understand.  “I thought it was best.  That’s the short answer.  I wanted to protect you.”

Javert moved from coldness to fury.  “Protect me? ”  

“Yes,” he continued.  “When you told me that you had lost your position because of the relationship between you and I, I was overwhelmed with guilt.  I knew that I had to at least try to make it right.”

“And you thought that you would do that, how, exactly?”

“I thought that if I was out of the picture, you would have no compunction about returning to the police force, and that you would be able to get your job back.  The decision would be simple.  Javert, you are too proud for your own good sometimes -”

“That was never your choice to make.”“And what was I supposed to do?  Just let you throw away your career because of me?  After all these years, and all of your dedication?  How was I supposed to live with that?” 

“Easily.  You live with it easily, because it was never your choice.”

“But it was my responsibility.”

“It was not.  And even if you thought it was, why the hell would you not consult me on this?”“I thought that - I know you are -”

“What?”  Javert had advanced on him, and was clearly impatient with his hesitation.

“I know you have your pride.  How could I let your refusal to give in to Allard’s demands get in the way of your happiness?”

“I’ll only say this one more time, Valjean:  it was not your choice to make.  It is my right to make these decisions for myself.  If I had wanted to end things with you, do you not think I would have told you so?”

“I just…didn’t want to be the reason for your suffering.  I didn’t want you to look back one day soon and have cause to hold that against me.”

“You didn’t …” Javert looked more furious still.  “Pardieu!  Did it not occur to you that in doing so, you would become the cause of my suffering?  That once again, I was doing perfectly fine until your unasked for act of ‘mercy.’”

“I suppose it didn’t occur to me that you would value my company over your career.”

“And the fact that I had already made my decision?”

“I thought it was just your pride talking, not what you truly wished.  I was hoping that you would be able to work things out with Allard the next day.”

“Allard!”  Javert spat the name out.  “It’s him I blame, not you.  Does he truly think that I can’t do my job correctly with you in my life?  That anyone else cares what I do when I’m not working?  Why would I hold you responsible for that?”

Valjean remained silent for a moment, then said “I certainly didn’t mean to hurt you.”

“I don’t see how you could have thought you wouldn’t have.”

“I had thought that a clean break would be best,” Valjean said to his own feet.  

“You tore my heart out.  You should have realized how much you meant to me.”  Javert spoke quietly, as if saying the words aloud pained him.  

“‘Meant’?”

“Meant, Valjean!”  Javert’s voice raised again.  “I hardly know what I feel anymore.  I feel so empty, and I can’t -” he cut off, clearly anguished.  “You got your break.  I don’t know if I am capable of going back to the way things were.”  His arms raised and lowered in a cut-off gesture.

Never had Valjean so regretted having gotten his wish.  He wanted to pull Javert into his arms, and to try to make everything alright, if he could.  But instinct told him not to.  He had calmed Javert with his touch that other night, but he knew that the ease was gone between them and that Javert would resent his presumption now.  Both men stood several feet apart, a distance that they did not know how to cross.  Breathing, waiting.

Somewhat calmed down, Javert finally took a closer look at Valjean, his eyes gentler.

“Good God, Valjean.  You don’t look well.  Will you sit down and tell me what you have been doing these last few days?”

Valjean remembered something, and looked sheepish.  “There’s one thing.  I need to go down to the street and - well, I came here with Vidocq.”  Javert gave a start.  Valjean continued.  “I need to tell him everything is alright.”

“Let me guess,” said Javert bitterly.  “He dragged you here by the ear.”

“Something like that,” Valjean admitted sadly.  “More like, he made me see reason.  Why does it matter why I’m here so long as I am?”

“Of course it matters.  Even now, you only come to see me out of obligation.  What is it that Eugène told you?”

“That you … aren’t well, Javert.  He made me realize that I have done wrong by you.”

Javert snorted.  “That’s an understatement.  Here’s what we will do.  You sit down; I’ve never seen you looking so ill and I would worry that you would never make it back up the stairs.  I’ll go have  words  with Vidocq, and will be back shortly.  In the meantime, you are to rest here.”

“I’m fine.  I can definitely make it up and down some stairs.”

“Why do I think that’s a lie?  Listen, whether I like it or not, you’ve seen me at my weakest.  Now all I’m asking is for you to sit in a chair until I get back.  No great hardship.  Then when I am back you are going to tell me what you have gotten yourself into these past few days.”

Valjean could not help but agree.  He was unsure of his own strength, or else he would insist on going with Javert.

***

Javert was in the state of deep confusion that only Jean Valjean could bring him to.  What was it that he should be feeling now?  He had fallen so deeply that he was not sure he could feel joy anymore.  Joy - is that not what he should be experiencing, now that Valjean had returned to him?  For even now he had no doubt that he loved the man.

Such were Javert’s thoughts as he hurried down the tenement building’s stairways.  Finally at the bottom, he burst out into the early evening sunlight, and recognized Vidocq waiting.  

“Hullo there, Gene.  You really have no right to interfere with my personal life like this.”

Vidocq looked up.  “Nonsense, it’s my job to make sure that none of my agents kill themselves over something idiotic.”

“I’m not your agent,” said Javert, walking the rest of the way over to him.

“I wish you would be.  Come to visit me at the bureau anytime, and a position is yours.”

Bitterness came into Javert’s voice.  “You aren’t worried about how I would make your new organization look?”

“Pssh,” Vidocq spat.  “Allard has no sense.  I won’t hear another word about it - his loss may very well be my gain.”

“I haven’t agreed yet.”

Vidocq smirked knowingly, angering Javert.  The man was infuriatingly patronizing sometimes.  

Javert snapped, “You can go home now, or wherever it is you are going.  And leave those things you took, will you?”

“Not yet.  Come by the office tomorrow if you want them.”

“I’ll have you arrested as a thief,” said Javert with little conviction.

“You wouldn’t dare,” said Vidocq, utterly unphased.  

“Try me.”

Vidocq sighed.  “You know perfectly well that I can have you locked up too.  Be thankful I’m only taking a few odds and ends.”

Javert glared daggers at him.  Why was it that he gave way so quickly to Vidocq?  He supposed it was no mystery, with the man’s natural authority, combined with his many years of actual authority over him.  It mattered very little now.  Resigned, Javert said, “You’ve gotten your way, and now Valjean and I have some things to discuss.”

“Go easy on him; I may have already given him a piece of my mind today and the man looks like a wreck.”  Vidocq’s mouth quirked up again, his good humor restored.

“Ha,” Javert said with no real humor. “Where the devil did you find him?”

“He’s got another house on Rue Plumet, well on the outskirts of town.  What, did he never tell you that?  He was easy enough to find.”

“I can’t be bothered finding someone who doesn’t want to be found, unless I have a warrant,” Javert said as haughtily as he could manage.

“Hmm.  Take care, Javert; you great idiot.  And come by the office when you are willing to talk sensibly.”  Vidocq climbed back into the tilbury, and tapped his horse with his whip.  

Javert was sullen as he made his way back inside and fended off his portress’s questions.  Vidocq had overstepped by far, bringing Valjean here.

As he walked back up the stairs, Javert considered.  Vidocq’s accusing him of being an idiot sounded familiar, as he thought of his own earlier words to Valjean.  Perhaps Vidocq was correct, and he and Valjean had both been acting unreasonably over the past few days.  It would not have killed him to swallow his pride and track down Valjean, for surely it must not have been that hard if Vidocq had managed, with less knowledge of the man and his habits.  Could he overlook Valjean’s mistakes, the way that he would prefer to have his recent weakness overlooked?  Perhaps he could find a way to forgive Valjean.  He felt a fluttering of warmth in his heart at the thought.  He thought that he would like that.

***

Left alone now, Valjean found that he was left only with gratitude that he had found Javert alive and in good health.  In his relief, he was able to relax.  He quickly began to nod off, his fatigue getting the better of him after what he had put his body through.  

He came back to attention as Javert entered the room again. Javert folded himself into the armchair opposite of Valjean, watching him consideringly for a moment.  “Well, what do you intend to do now?  Now that Eugène is gone and no one is forcing you to be here?”

“That depends…” Valjean said cautiously.  “I would like to keep talking with you?”

Javert smiled slightly.  “You may stay.  So then.  Cosette told me that you were traveling to Pas-de-Calais.  I assume that was a lie?”

“I’m afraid so,” said Valjean dejectedly.  “But you must not blame her.  She only repeated to you what I told her.”

“I see - lying to the both of us then.”

Valjean smiled warily.  “She hasn’t had the opportunity to develop much skill in deception.  I mean, except when it came to that boy of hers.”

“Back on topic, Valjean.  Vidocq told me that he found you holed up in another house on Rue Plumet?”

“Yes, I used to live there.”

“Do go on,” Javert said with an edge, when Valjean did not elaborate.

“Well, the truth is.  That night that you chased me into the alley, so many years ago?  I was so desperate.  When it finally came to be time for me and Cosette to leave the convent, we would be exposed again.  I wanted to make sure that I had a refuge from you or the other police at all times.  Cosette and I moved into this house in Rue Plumet, and made it our home.  But to help ensure our safety, I also leased two apartments elsewhere in the city.  We would spend some time in them, on and off.  The one on Rue de l'Homme Armé you’ve been to, of course.  The other one I abandoned after that boy Marius followed us there and was asking far too many questions.  How was I to know he wasn’t a police informant?”

“Ha, to hear you talk, a suitor for your daughter is as bad as a police informant.”

“It’s true,” Valjean agreed.

“But your current apartment?”“I’m getting there.  Someone was lurking around our house in Rue Plumet around the time of the insurrection, and I got an anonymous warning to move house.  I never did figure out who it was who was hanging around like that.  I thought that it might have been you -” here Javert shook his head - “or else Marius.  Anyway, Cosette, Toussaint, and I moved immediately to our apartment at Rue de l'Homme Armé.  And that is where we have lived since then, but I never let go of the lease on the house.”

“Hm, and you never told me about it, either?  Old habits die hard, apparently.”  

“Harder than you can know,” he said with a bit of a sad smile.  “You know, my heart still freezes for a moment every time I see the gendarmes or officers of the peace.  Even now, even though I know that I am safe.”

“So you just happened to have a convenient retreat in the city that you had failed to tell me about,” continued Javert, not to be dissuaded.

“Yes.”  Valjean wasn’t sure what Javert wanted of him.  “It was hardly dishonesty - I never told you that I didn’t have another place in the city.”

“I don’t know how I let myself forget who I was dealing with.”  Javert looked exasperated.  “By the way, I suppose I could have found you myself, had I put my mind to it.  I simply have no interest in being with you if it isn’t what you want.  Vidocq has no such qualms, and is unreasonably nosy.”

Valjean wondered what kind of dignity it was that thought suicide preferable to looking for a man who had gone missing, but he supposed that he had little enough room to judge.  He was hardly blameless here.

“Has he returned your - things?”

Javert glared at him.  “No, the inconsiderate lout has not.  He’s holding them out to me for good behavior as if I were a small child of his.”

Valjean thought that Vidocq’s actions had been rather justified, and he could not bring himself to agree with Javert on them.

“But come, enough of Gene,” Javert said suddenly, leaning forward again.  “You were going to tell me what you have been doing, and why you have arrived here looking so ill.”

“There’s nothing much to tell.  I’ve been doing so little.  Staying holed up so that I would be out of your way until the worst of it blew over.”  Valjean sighed.  “I haven’t had much of an appetite these last few days.”

Javert stared at him.  “I fear that’s an understatement.  Toussaint; she stayed with Cosette?”

“Yes.”

“She’s your only servant, correct?  Unless you have more at this Rue Plumet house?”

“I do not.  But I know how to take care of myself.”

“It doesn’t look like it.”

“Your attitude isn’t helping, you know,” said Valjean, finally becoming impatient.  

“It wasn’t really intended to help.  Valjean, do I need to call a doctor?  Are you genuinely ill?”

“No, no need for a doctor.  I’m fine.  Really, I will be fine.”

Javert took a long breath in as if he were trying to calm himself down.  “Then you mean to say that you have been doing this poorly, just from your neglect of yourself?”

“You could say that - ”

“You infuriate me - ”

“Javert!  You act as though I meant to do all this, almost maliciously.  Can’t you see what’s in front of your face?  It broke my heart when I left you.  My days have been spent alone with my grief.  I didn’t leave the house; I couldn’t stomach eating food.”  He felt Javert was being hypocritical, when Javert himself had been so careless with his own life. But he stopped short of saying so.  

“You know what the oddest thing about you is, Valjean?  You’ve survived all these years, outrunning the law, but you appear to have no instinct whatsoever for self-preservation.  I’ve observed this about you time and again.  Don’t try to argue.”  Javert stood up.  “I’m going to have to go and find you something to eat.  It truly is worrying, how bad you’ve allowed yourself to become.  What would Cosette say if she could see you like this?”

“Javert, you can’t tell her anything about this.  I will go back to her soon and tell her of my trip to Pas-de-Calais.  If I must, if I’m really looking as bad off as you say, I’ll tell her that I caught sick on the way.”

“Exactly how many secrets would you have me keep from your daughter?  I wish you would live a more honest life, Valjean.”

Valjean folded his arms in front of his chest, saying nothing.

“Just consider it, anyway, will you?  While I go and fetch us dinner.  You will be here when I get back?”

“Yes,” he said, and meant it. 

When Javert returned, he was carrying a tray with two bowls.  He handed one to Valjean.

“A thin soup for you, while you are recovering.  I wish I had thought to buy some milk this morning, that would be just the thing for you, but I didn’t anticipate…” he trailed off.

Valjean smiled thinly.  “You didn’t know you would have a guest,” he said as an act of charity.

Javert took just a moment too long to assent.  He poured half a glass of wine for Valjean, filling the other half with drinking water, and handed it over to him.

They sat in silence, Javert watching Valjean drink his soup with something almost approaching suspicion in his eyes.  As if Valjean would somehow fail to drink it if not closely supervised.  

“You can stay here as long as you want, while you are recovering,” Javert finally said.  Valjean felt his heart lift.  “I mean, I don’t really trust you to be on your own, and it sounds like you’ve made up your mind to hide this from your daughter.”

“You are kind.”  Valjean sighed.  “You know that I didn’t mean to hurt you.”  

Javert sat his half-finished bowl of stew aside, got up, and walked to Valjean.  To Valjean’s surprise, he fell to his knees and knelt on the ground in front of him.  Gray eyes lifted up to meet his.

“I know,” was all he said.  Javert leaned in, cupping Valjean’s jaw in his hand and pulling him in for a kiss.  “Goddamn it, I know,” Javert whispered against his cheek, then kissed him again. 

Valjean was overwhelmed as their mouths moved together.  Had Javert’s lips always felt this soft?  He had thought this was lost to him forever, and he clung to the moment.  He felt flooded with warmth and grace.  He could tell that Javert was similarly moved.  Valjean leaned forward, Javert’s torso between his knees, bringing them still closer together.   An arm wrapped around Javert, holding him in place.  This was not lust; it was desperation, reconciliation; a battle, and a peace.  Love.  Love having passed through a fire, and come out stronger.  

Eventually they parted, gazing at one another in wonder.  Valjean felt secure again.  He knew that Javert would forgive him, if he hadn’t already, and that they could go back to the way things had been.  

For the rest of the evening, they avoided argument.  Javert went downstairs and brought him another bowl of soup, which, although it had gone cold, was still palatable.  Then, in a change from their normal routine, Valjean listened while Javert read aloud to him.  Still weakened by his ill-treatment of himself, Valjean fell asleep listening to Javert’s soothing baritone.  He awoke later, unsure of how much later, only to begin getting ready for bed.  He supposed that Javert was humoring him by turning in so early, but he wasn’t about to complain as he extinguished the lamp and joined him. 

As they lay down together, Valjean realized how much he had missed this during his self-imposed isolation.  Just being near a well-loved companion in the dark, and feeling his presence.  How quickly he had come to be accustomed to this after a life spent alone.  Javert turned and wrapped himself around Valjean.  Valjean smiled; it was as though the man couldn’t help himself.  He felt soft exhalations in his hair.  He was utterly exhausted, but he let Javert’s hands run over him slowly, reassuringly.  Perhaps Javert, too, wanted the reassurance that he was here.  The sensation of touch kept him awake, but it was not long before Javert’s hand stilled.  Utterly contented, Valjean let sleep claim him. 

Despite having lain awake for long into the night, Javert awoke before Valjean.  Not that it was saying much, he reflected, as Valjean was sleeping uncharacteristically late.  He thought that considering the condition the man had been in, it was better not to wake him.  

His portress did not make breakfast for the tenants of the building, and Javert had not been diligent about going out to buy anything recently.  He supposed he should have been easier on Valjean, since their behavior over the last few days had not been entirely dissimilar.  But he couldn’t stop himself from being mad at how the man had simply refused to take care of himself, as if he were letting his life drain away.  Was this hypocritical of him? Perhaps.  But he couldn’t bear the thought of this happening to  Valjean.  Javert had always considered Jean Valjean a survivor.  But what in the end had caused him to give up?  The loss of he, Javert.  Was he really so important to Valjean, then?

He looked wonderingly at the man still sleeping in his bed.  He would take care of him, even if neither of them could be trusted to take care of themselves.  He wrote a short note on a scrap of paper and attempted to leave it in a spot where Valjean was sure to find it if he awoke before Javert returned.  

Javert strode to the nearest small market, and purchased dry oatmeal, coffee, and eggs, and got his bottle of milk refilled.  On a second thought, he also bought half a loaf of especially soft bread.  When he returned to the apartment, he found Valjean awake.  

“Good morning.”  Keen to avoid any further misunderstanding, Javert asked “Did you get my note?”

Valjean nodded.

Javert poured milk into two mugs, retaining a small amount for the oatmeal.  He handed one to Valjean, telling him to drink.  He started a fire in the small stove, and proceeded to cook the oatmeal down to a thin porridge. He added an additional splash of milk to Valjean’s bowl for good measure, handing it over.  

Valjean smiled.  Javert rarely cooked, and this was the most complicated thing he had created for Valjean.  

Once they had eaten, Javert convinced Valjean to go on a short walk with him outside.  Valjean seemed stronger than he had the previous day, and they walked together in the warm morning, once again able to enjoy one another’s company.  Valjean tired much more quickly than normal, and after confirming that Valjean did not want to go back to his own home and face his daughter in his current condition, Javert led him back to his apartment.  

He insisted that Valjean was still not well, and needed to continue to rest.  But when Valjean had been safely deposited back in bed, Javert did not know what to do with himself.  The truth was, he was very restless.  The short walk was not enough to satisfy him, and he had been out of work for five days.  This was an unprecedented break for Javert, whose dedication to meeting the demands of the job had always been absolute.  He was unaccustomed to leisure and found that he did not take well to it.  He realized that his distress of the previous days had not all been about Valjean - he had suffered another loss, and this one would not come back to him.  

Not in its old form, anyway.  He knew that if he were to continue to live, he must find a way to make a living and support himself.  His savings were almost nonexistent, and at this rate he did not look forward to the next date the rent would come due.  He sighed inwardly.  When they spoke the other day, Vidocq had known too well the situation he was in, and he must know what Javert’s answer to his proposal must eventually be.  No, there was no way out of it for his pride.  He must make the only decision he could. How the man would gloat, after Javert had already refused his earlier offer.  

Leaving another note for the sleeping Valjean, just in case, he made his way to the  Bureau des Renseignements  on 12 rue Cloche-Perche. 

Javert found that Vidocq was not in when he arrived, and he took a seat in the front office waiting for him.  When Vidocq finally arrived, around a half an hour later, he greeted Javert enthusiastically and invited him back into his office.  

“Let me guess, you want to thank me for yesterday,” Vidocq said with a crooked grin.

Javert frowned at him.  “No, you know perfectly well why I’m here.  I’m in need of a job, as you very well know.”

Vidocq looked delighted.  “You’ve decided to take me up on my offer?  I’m so glad.  I was afraid your natural stubbornness would win out and you would decide to make some sort of late in life career change.  Serving wine, shoeing horses, tailoring - you know, that sort of thing.”

“You never change, do you?”

“Old dogs like us never do, Javert.  Now, let’s get down to business, shall we?  Not counting the bounty you get for arrests, what are you earning now?”

“1500 francs a year.”

“Call it 3000, then,” Vidocq said. Javert’s eyes widened - Vidocq had once quipped that he would double Javert’s salary if he would come over to work at his private agency.  Javert had assumed it was a joke.  Business was clearly thriving.  “Don’t look so surprised.  If you don’t know what to do with the money, you could always try using it to pay me back.

“You should know that I expect certain conduct from all of my agents -” here Javert froze slightly, as Vidocq continued speaking.  “Nothing that should be too burdensome for you.  Don’t spit on the floor, take off your hat when you come inside, that sort of thing.  Nothing about associating with convicts, don’t you worry.  I’ve got to warn you though - you won’t be working on a great number of exciting cases.  A lot of the time we are simply trying to collect a debt.”

“Thrilling.”

“Well, you should have thought of that before you pissed off Allard.”

“I didn’t - ”

“I know, I know.”  Vidocq’s tone had lowered and his tone was now sincere and sympathetic.  “Look, I’m sorry about all of this.  I may not have said anything directly, but I really am sorry it had to happen this way.”  

Javert looked down.  “Thank you.”  He was unexpectedly touched; it had bothered him more than he could acknowledge when Vidocq had seemed to gloat over his recent misfortune.  “Just give me a few days to resolve some personal matters,” he continued, thinking of Valjean and not sure if he wanted to leave him unattended in his present condition for what promised to be long workdays.

“Take a week,” Vidocq said, magnanimous in his victory.  “I’ll see you here next Monday?”

“If you wish.  And may I remind you that you are keeping some things for me?”  

“Is that so.  And you think it’s wise for me to give them back?”

“Wise as it’s ever going to be.”

Vidocq sighed, and fished around in a box against the wall.  He extracted a bag, and handed it to Javert.

“Go forth, and tell those ‘personal matters’ that I’m keeping an eye on him.”

Javert sighed.  “Goodbye, ‘Mec.”

***

Jean Valjean’s recovery was rapid, once his spirits had returned.  He was embarrassed that Javert had taken it upon himself to care for him, but Javert assured him that he had nowhere else he had to be.  Javert fed him the soft bread after returning home from Vidocq’s agency, and he was able to tolerate it well enough.  

After two days of food and water, it was as if he were himself again.  He was dying to see Cosette again.  It had been seven days - the longest he had been separated from her since their time together had begun.  His trips to the forest outside of Montfermeil had not taken him nearly so long.  Javert loaned him his shaving kit, and he made himself as presentable as possible.  Despite Javert’s clearly expressed disapproval, he intended to tell Cosette nothing of what had happened.  He did not mean to worry her:  that was the main concern.  The whole business also touched perilously close to revealing his past, which was another secret that he intended to keep from her for a while longer.  Javert had again insisted that Valjean should tell her everything, but Valjean insisted even more strongly that she could not know of it until she was married.  It was an ongoing point of disagreement between them.  

When Valjean reached his apartment in Rue de l'Homme Armé, he found it empty.  Cosette and Toussaint must have gone out to visit Marius or else perhaps they were out at the market.  

“Cosette, my dear!”  Valjean exclaimed when she finally arrived home.  She carried the empty basket which she used to store and carry her lint - Marius then. She wore her most fashionable gown, one that Valjean rather disliked due to the admiring glances it attracted.  

She crossed her arms, looking at him sternly.  “I suppose you will be telling me exactly why you had to go to Pas-de-Calais, and what you did while you were there?”

“Urgent matter of business.  Some papers needed to be signed immediately with an associate who lives there.”

She set down her basket without meeting his gaze.  “I don’t think you are telling me the truth.  I’m not a little girl anymore.  It’s not quite so simple to fool me.”

“Nonsense, I’m not trying to fool you.  What makes you say that?”

“You never mentioned anything like this before.  Hell, you -”

“Cosette!  Language.”

“You’ve never even told me what business it is that you supposedly do!  Never!”  

“That’s no concern of yours.”

“Didn’t you tell me that I was the mistress of this household?”

Valjean cursed himself internally.  “Of the household,” he said.  “Not of what I do outside of it.”

Her tone became yet more angry.  “And what about M. Javert?  He was here every day asking about you, right until I told him straight out that you didn’t want me to pass on anything to him.”  Valjean flinched as Cosette continued to speak.  “Why did you tell me to withhold information from him?  If I didn’t know better I could have sworn that you broke his heart.”

Valjean finally said “That’s between me and him.”

“How can you be so cold?”

“Cosette, please.  I’ve made things up with him.  Javert is fine.”

She continued to look at him with a suspicious glare.  

“You must promise to bring him by for dinner, so that he doesn’t think I dislike him.  You really put me in an awkward position when you left.”

“All right,” he said.  “But he doesn’t think that you dislike him.”  It could be much worse, he thought.  “How has Marius been since I went away?”

“He’s doing so well!  The new doctor is so happy with his progress.  We took a little walk around the parlor together today.  Imagine.  Just two weeks ago he wasn’t getting out of bed.”  

Cosette seemed about as mollified as she was going to get, and settled in to tell Valjean about what he had missed while he was gone.  He heard all about Cosette and Toussaint’s trips to visit Marius, and further details about the boy’s progress.  He learned that the small family of martins that had nested against the wall of the courtyard behind their apartment earlier in the year had gone - presumably moving on for the season.  As she talked, Cosette relaxed further and Valjean felt that he was forgiven again.  He silently gave thanks.

Oof, sorry about the long delay. I’ve been going through a lot in real life - things really threw me through a loop - and I just haven’t been able to work on this fic. I promise I will finish it though!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


The next few weeks were peaceful ones.  He and Cosette resumed their morning routine of delivering lint to the Gillenormand house; lint that was less and less needed as Marius’ wounds closed up.  Valjean was beginning to feel a fondness for the boy in spite of himself.  The boy had a gentle soul and clearly adored Cosette, and after spending this much time with him, it was impossible for Valjean’s heart to remain hardened.  He no longer had any doubt of the boy’s intentions towards his daughter.  He once asked Cosette if she missed living in the house on Rue Plumet, since that had always been their primary home, but although she looked a little nostalgic, she insisted that they remain in the apartment, which was much closer to the Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire.  

Valjean’s nights were typically spent with Javert, a fact that Cosette accepted without comment.  Occasionally, Javert came over to visit at Valjean’s apartment, where he and Cosette enjoyed one another’s company.  Valjean was still deeply embarrassed when Javert spent the night, as it was clear that there was no additional bed for him.  Neither Cosette nor Toussaint commented on this, though, for which he was grateful.  Javert for his part liked to tease Valjean for his recurring shyness, now that he was confident that Valjean valued their sexual intimacy as much as he did.    

On Sundays, Valjean and Cosette continued to meet and spend time with Jeanne Xavier, whose print shop was doing well.  She and Cosette both liked to walk with him from the church to the nearby Jardin de Luxembourg, where brother and sister would both share their knowledge of plants with Cosette.  Perhaps Cosette also had her own reasons for treasuring her time in this garden.

Javert was occupied with his new job.  Vidocq demanded long hours from his agents.  Often, Valjean let himself into the Javert’s empty apartment and waited, sometimes even for hours, for the exhausted man to come home and fall into bed.  Valjean regretted this deeply.  He could easily afford to have Javert come live with him, and not work, but he knew the man would be deeply offended, and would never agree to such an arrangement.  He had seen how hard he took the loss of his position with the police, and knew work was important to his companion.  Of course, Valjean had been informed by letter that he too had been dismissed from the Sûreté during its dissolution, but this had little effect on him.  

Valjean found himself a truly free man with time on his hands for the first time in his life.  He spoke with a  curé at his customary church about whether there were any parishioners who had expressed an interest in learning to read and write, and finding the names of several, he set about making introductions.  Two were interested in learning from him, and he arranged to meet with them one on one in the evenings before he visited Javert.  He was not, perhaps, the most qualified tutor, but he was patient and generous with his time, and his students made rapid progress.  It was not the same as teaching Cosette had been in those charming early days, but it was something.  He doubted he was qualified to be a formal schoolteacher, and doubted he had the necessary energy to keep up with a group of young students.  This current arrangement suited him fine, and perhaps his pupils would spread word among their acquaintances by the time they had learned enough that they no longer had need of him. 

***

October came around, and Marius was much healed.  The day that Valjean had been dreading finally came.  M. Gillenormand had asked to have a word with him privately on one of their daily visits.  After his flowery preliminaries, he asked on Marius’ behalf for Cosette’s hand.  Knowing what his daughter’s answer would be, Valjean said yes, but that Marius must speak with her himself.  To this Gillenormand cheerfully agreed, and then went out looking for Marius.  

“Marius, my son!” he exclaimed.  “I’ve spoken with M. Trauchelevent.  It’s come to pass.  It shall be as you wish. Go on, then, go on.  Ask the girl.”

Marius looked briefly confused, then his entire aspect lit up with happiness.  He looked between Gillenormand and Valjean, and seeing nothing to discourage him, turned to Cosette.

“My sweet one.  How faithful you have been to me during my recovery.  It would give me the greatest joy if we could be together like this all the time.  That is to say.  If you will be my wife.”

“Of course I will!” Cosette leaped a little bit into the air.  “I want nothing more.”

They gazed at one another intently, their hearts saying what words could not.  Valjean watched, fondly.  

Gillenormand began to speak to Valjean about the wedding, and all the arrangements that they must make.  He glanced back at the two young lovers, and said to Gillenormand, “Come, let’s walk for a moment.  We can speak of these things while leaving these two to their happiness.”

“Right you are!  A very sensible suggestion,” Gillenormand replied as Valjean led him away.  Another sacrifice Valjean made for his daughter.  While they were together, Gillenormand spoke with sadness of the family’s financial situation, and the reduced circumstances in which the young couple were likely to find themselves.  Valjean smiled sadly - at least here was something he could do for Cosette.  He interrupted Gillenormand’s long speech to inform him that Cosette had six hundred thousand francs.  Gillenormand’s delight at the news was complete.  It was all that was wanted in order to make Cosette the perfect bride, and he could hardly wait to relay the news to Marius.  

***

Valjean had listened to Cosette’s raptures all the rest of the day, bearing them with a facade of joy himself.  Still, it was a relief to be able to be honest about his feelings when he spoke with Javert that night.  He told Javert of everything that had occurred, in the most minute detail he could remember.  Valjean unburdened himself of his feelings and his worries, both for Cosette and for himself; everything that he could not in good conscience tell her.  

Javert at first attempted to reassure him, telling him how clear it was that Cosette loved him and that she would surely remain in his life.  He told him that it was a natural part of life; that children grow up.  Eventually, though, he became uncharacteristically silent.  

“You’re awfully quiet tonight,” observed Valjean.

Javert didn’t reply immediately, but then said  “Have you ever thought of marriage, Jean?”

“In what way?  Personally?”

“Yes.”

“I suppose when I was a boy, I thought I would get married - didn’t everyone?  But I never got around to it.  It’s never been something that’s been on my mind.  Never seemed pressing, or even possible for me in my situation.  And now I would never want anyone except you.”  

“But you’re a religious man; more so than me, anyway.  Does it bother you, what we do?”

“No.  I’ve given it some thought, and I could go on about this, but a very wise man taught me that the foundations of Christ’s church is love and forgiveness.  That bishop taught me about divine love.  Cosette taught me more than I ever knew of love of family.  And now after so many years, you have taught me what it is to feel passionate love.  I do not think any of this is so wrong.”

Javert listened solemnly.  “I was hoping you felt this way,” he said quietly.  “Would you…commit to me?  Only me?”

“Of course.  I thought my feelings were clear.”  What was Javert thinking? Valjean wondered.  Did he think that there might be another man someday, or that Valjean would attempt to leave him again?

“I would marry you, if you would have me.  I know someone.”

“What are you saying?!”  

“I know a man, a judge, who will not balk at saying a few words over us, if that’s something you wish.”

“I hardly know what I want.  I had not thought of such a thing.”

“Not a civil ceremony, of course.  And the church doesn’t recognize it.  But it’s not as uncommon of an arrangement as you might think.  And how do you not remember celebrating the marriages that took place in Toulon?”

Valjean put his head in his hands.  “Please, Javert.  Don’t compare what we have to what went on in that place.  That was a mockery.”  Truth be told, he made a point of remembering as little as possible from the  bagne.   He had held himself aloof from the other prisoners, in a haze of his own, and had never participated in the singing and cheers that marked these occasions.  

“I doubt it was a mockery to them,” Javert pressed on.

Valjean found himself annoyed, and with nowhere to direct it.  Why had Javert brought up Toulon at all?  Who was Javert to tell him how the prisoners at the  bagne had felt?  And yet could Valjean himself speak for them all, he who had held himself apart from others?  Perhaps in the years in which he had been there as a young guard, Javert had truly learned more of the range of passions that were felt in that place than had Valjean, who had been shut up inside of himself for those nineteen years.

Valjean wondered, for the first time he could remember, whether things would have been different if he had been able to let other people in during his imprisonment.  Not to be unchaste, but simply to allow himself to enjoy the presence of another person.  He thought of Chenildieu, with his jaunty air, and other men he had known.   He thought of Javertis, the young guard who, just occasionally, had a smile for him.  Who was known among the galériens for his warnings rather than casual blows.  Guards, convicts: they came and went around Valjean, making little impression.  And yet, when Javert had disappeared, he could not help but notice.  He had asked around, found out that the young man had left to be a soldier, recruited into the Grande Armée.  A vague disappointment that he could not name had taken hold of him, as he sank further into himself.  

Looking back on it, examining himself, he had to wonder.  Would  this have been possible back then?  Who could say what he would have done had that serious youth come to him and asked?  He shook his head.  There was no way that Javert would have been having … relations with the convicts.  It didn’t bear thinking about.

 “Now who is awfully quiet?” asked Javert, breaking through Valjean’s reverie.  He had gone far afield in his mind.  Back in the here and now, Valjean considered what to say.  

“All I’m trying to say,” continued Javert, “Is that it’s what occurs between two people that make a marriage.  Wouldn’t you agree?”

“Yes, I suppose so…” he said, although he had never thought of it in this way.

“Then you and I have as much right as anyone to consider ourselves a married couple, if that’s what we chose to do.”

“Let me think on it, please.  There’s no one else I should like to marry of course, it just - this is sudden.”  

“Of course.”  The blank look on Javert’s face likely concealed disappointment.  Javert was rather formal with him for the rest of the evening, as though he dared not give any potential further offense.  

***

They spoke no more of marriage that evening, and parted as was their habit in the morning.  Valjean was once more subject to the happy, enthusiastic ramblings of Cosette, as she discussed the prospect of marriage.  This was amplified unreasonably when they made their daily call on Marius, who was as excited as Cosette.  They were already beginning to plan the wedding aloud with M. Gillenormand, who clearly wished to do all in his power to make the young couple happy.  

At home, Valjean watched Cosette flit around the apartment, like one of her martins, thinking of how it would be after she had gone.  The rather bleak apartment was not really a home to him, not without Cosette.  There was no home for him without Cosette.  Perhaps even through her joy, Cosette saw some trace of sadness in his eyes, for at one point she said “I hate to think of you all alone here, after I marry.  You must come and live with us.  There will be plenty of room, and we shall all be so happy.”

“Now, Cosette, you know that cannot be,” he said, thinking once again of his past and how he still must not darken her home and future with it.  

“Oh, what am I saying?  I forgot, but of course you will want to live with Javert, won’t you?” she asked with a smile.

Valjean made no reply.

***

Valjean walked to Javert’s apartment in the evening, as the light was fading.  Unfortunately, there was little chance of seeing him sooner.  He was suffused through with Cosette’s joy, and felt a bit as though he were floating.  He saw a flower cart, a thing which normally held very little interest to him, but on that evening, he stopped.  He looked over the flowers, placed in pails and no longer looking their best at the close of the warm autumn day.  He selected a single red rose, paying for it rather shyly, and continuing on his way.  

He arrived at Javert’s apartment first, as he often did these days, and carefully placed the rose in a mug of water.  Then he sat down to wait.  His books were slowly migrating over to Javert’s apartment.  He was building up a small stack that he kept in a corner, spines aligned with military precision out of deference to Javert’s sense of tidiness.  

When he heard Javert’s familiar step outside the door, Valjean got up to meet him.  Before Javert could say anything, even to greet him, Valjean took his hand and simply said “Yes.”

“‘Yes,’ what?” Javert asked, looking puzzled.  

“Yes, I would like to marry you.”  

Javert burst into that grin that Valjean had once found so threatening - the wolfish one that showed so many teeth.  Now he found it endearing.  Javert put his arms around Valjean’s waist, pulling him in for a long kiss.  Valjean melted against him. 

“I didn’t expect you to say that,” he admitted, having released Valjean to stare intently into his eyes.  “I thought…” he trailed off.  

“I brought you a flower,” Valjean said, in place of a proper reply, gesturing to the rose now sitting on Javert’s vanity.  Javert laughed quietly, then kissed him again. 

Wait, wait, hear me out! I know this probably seems anachronistic. I had thought that gay marriage in the early 1800s was limited to Anne Lister, but I was doing some reading and it turns out to have been not uncommon. Of course there were no legal rights or recognition, and it wasn’t recognized by any church, but same-sex couples did sometimes hold ceremonies and consider themselves married. See this passage from "Strangers: Homosexual Love in the Nineteenth Century", for example (p 167):

“But marriages continued to be a common expression of love and sociality. A surprising number of priests and vicars were prepared to perform marriages for homosexual men or lesbians, and there were also many private arrangements. …”

(this whole book is a good read if you are interested in gay and lesbian history)

The book “Homosexuality in French History and Culture” references gay weddings in the Toulon bagne, as well. These were apparently encouraged at least some of the time, because they reduced escape attempts. Both Valjean and Javert would have been aware of the fact that some male couples in Toulon considered themselves married. And I think that between Valjean’s religious feelings, Javert’s respect for social order, and both of their possessiveness, it’s something they might want.

Anyway, look at me, trying to justify my self-indulgent nonsense with footnotes.


They were not wed immediately.  Valjean insisted that it would not be right for him to marry before Cosette’s own wedding.  He could not bring himself to have what she so desperately wanted first, simply because she had the misfortune of having her intended be so badly wounded.  



“Nonsense, of course it is proper for a father to be married before his daughter,” Javert had said when Valjean had expressed this to him.



Valjean laughed.  “You know perfectly well that these are unusual circumstances.”



Meanwhile, preparations went on for Marius and Cosette’s wedding.  Cosette had, of course, never so much as been to a wedding, and she knew nothing of planning for one.  Valjean was of no help to her there.  Possibly luckily for her, 
Gillenormand had a host of opinions on the topic.  Her wedding would perhaps be well out of date of the current fashions, but she would not lack for advice. 



As the seasons changed and her wedding approached, there was a part of the truth that Valjean decided to share with Cosette:  the one which would protect her, not harm her.  With some reluctance, he sat her down and explained to her that he was not her real father, but rather her guardian.  She protested, saying at first that surely this was not true, and later that it changed nothing.  Valjean remained firm throughout, though it nearly broke his heart.  He reminded himself that this was essential.  Now if the worst were to come out prior to her wedding, perhaps the shame would not stick to Cosette, and she would be free to live her life without him.  Afterwards, he waited for the fallout, but it did not come.  It was as Cosette had said, and she continued as his daughter as if nothing had changed.  One more burden was lifted from him.



***



Naturally, Javert continued to tell Valjean about his work with Vidocq’s agency, during the quiet evenings they spent together.  Most of what he related was routine, and less exciting than his work with the Sûreté had been.  One late evening, though, what Javert told him made his blood run cold.  



“Vidocq was hired by an old vicomte the other day, and he put me on the case.  It’s an interesting one, for once.  A suitor has appeared at last for his unmarried daughter - his only child, and they are a wealthy family, too.  The woman is in her thirties, and is quite taken with the gentleman.  He claims to be a comte who lost everything during the revolution, and who then made his name in the wars.  Our client is rather suspicious, to say the least.  I’m to investigate the ‘comte,’ find out his past and relations, and see if he’s a mere treasure-hunter.”



“Is this…common?” asked Valjean with concern.



“Common?”



“For a man to lie about his title, to marry a woman of property.”



“I wouldn’t know.  I’ve never aimed so high myself,” Javert said with a grin.



“Be serious.”



“Oh.”  Javert sobered up.  “You are thinking of Cosette.”



“Of course I am.  Her Marius claims to be a penniless baron, of all things, and Cosette stands to inherit everything I have.”



“Well, does - does he know that, Jean?  You don’t have a title, and forgive me, but you don’t actually appear to be rich.”



“I told his grandfather about Cosette’s money.  I wanted him to know that the two of them would be secure, and to show that Cosette is a fine match.  He had been worried about how they would support themselves.  And of course he then shared the news with Marius.”



Javert sighed.  “And in relieving their worries, you created your own.  Would it put your mind at ease if I looked into him, as well?”



“Would you?”



“I should make you rent me out from Eugene, but since it’s you, I’ll see what I can do informally.”  



“Thank you, Javert.”  



***



The next evening, it was past midnight when Javert returned, and Valjean had been starting to get worried.  Javert brushed off his concern.



“I had a busy evening, is all.  Bad news for our vicomte.  I eventually found out that the suitor is the most shameless of treasure-hunters.  He was a mere corporal in the army before he deserted, but through clever forgeries managed to promote himself all the way to comte.  Not a lot of self-restraint, I can tell you.  Tomorrow I’ll write the father a letter urging them to call off the marriage.”



“The poor woman,” Valjean said with feeling.  “And Marius?  Did you have any time to look into him?”



“Let us say that I’ve found nothing that would disprove anything he’s told you.  Marius is the grandson of Luc-Esprit 
Gillenormand.  His father is dead, but did serve with Napoleon.  He claims to have been granted the baronacy on the battlefield, a claim that makes little enough difference at this point.  Old Gillenormand lives well, but he lives on an annuity that will not pass on to his grandson when he dies.  However, there’s an aunt - wealthy from her mother’s side - who’s unmarried and has no children.  The boy stands likely to inherit from her, at least in part.  Their house is also owned by the family, which he is also probably in line to inherit.  He also intends to make his money as a lawyer, but I’ve seen little enough evidence of that.”



“So you think…”



“Your concern for your daughter is understandable, but I don’t think he’s after her money, if you are asking my opinion.  Besides, you yourself told me that he sought his own death when he thought her lost to him.  No man would do that for money.”



Reassured, Valjean smiled.  “Thank you.  Now I have only the regular concerns that a father has for his daughter to worry about.”



Javert placed his hand on Valjean’s knee.  “That girl is lucky to have you.”



“I’ve been the lucky one,” he said with feeling.  “But you must be exhausted.  Have you eaten?”  Javert was getting into the habit of eating from street stalls in the evening while he was out.  



“Yes.”



“Then I’m afraid I must tell you to go to sleep.  It’s late.”  It was with some grumbling on Javert’s side and an overwhelming sense of relief on Valjean’s that they curled up together for the night.  



***



After New Year’s, Javert began to make arrangements for their ceremony.  He explained that he knew a judge whom he had occasion to talk with several times in the course of his work, who was sympathetic to sodomites.  “I rather suspect that he leans that way himself,” he added.  “I know he’s performed a few informal ceremonies for people, and I am sure that he would be willing to do so for us.  If you will permit me to ask him?”






“Of course.”



Several days later, Javert wordlessly handed him a small pamphlet.  Valjean looked over it - it was the words of a ceremony printed out - and then looked back to Javert for an explanation.



“
Archambeau gave me this when I spoke with him.  We will need to learn our responses, unless you have attended rather more weddings than I suspect you have.  Plus, he’s made a few changes to the wording.”  



Valjean flipped through the pages, noticing no mention of a bride.  



“This is… only for men?”



Javert shrugged.  “I don’t think that he’s in the habit of marrying many couples.  He just likes to help out those like us when he can.”



Curiosity got the better of Valjean.  “Is he with a man?”  



“I don’t know.  He’s not a good friend of mine.  We talked once about a case in which I was called in as a witness.  Public indecency, well beyond what I could turn a blind eye to.  But his sympathies came out entirely.  Quite a more interesting discussion than I had been expecting that day, let me tell you.”



Valjean smiled.  “I will learn my part well.”  He glanced back down at the pamphlet, and something caught his eye.  “It says here that we will need rings.”



“I suppose so.  I hadn’t thought about it, honestly.”



Valjean deliberated.  On one hand, he was shy about the idea of a visible marker of their love, exposed where anyone could see.  On the other, he liked the idea of publicly marking Javert as his own.  Javert would carry this token, this emblem, with him during the long hours when they were apart.  Yes, he liked the idea very much. 



“I would like it if we did wear them.  I will take care of it.”



“Very well.”



A month ago, Valjean had already made a trip to a jeweler with Cosette, buying wedding bands for the young couple.  He had not dared to make the choice for her, and in coming along, she was able to try them on her slender finger, and to choose from among several rings which looked quite identical to Valjean.  She had explained to him the trick of measuring the size of Marius’ finger using a ribbon.  “Ribbon, Papa; yarn will stretch.”



Now, Valjean made a second trip to a different jeweler, for the sake of discretion.  He had sized himself and Javert using pieces of ribbon that morning.  As he selected a pair of plain gold bands, he thought of the way Javert’s eyes had fallen on him as he gently wrapped the piece of ribbon around Javert’s ring finger.  He had marked the exact length they needed between his fingers, to cut the piece to size, when he felt Javert’s gaze and met it.  The moment had been simple, and it hadn’t.  He tried to focus back on the task at hand, indicating to the jeweler which rings he wanted.



“My only daughter is to be married,” he told the jeweler, accurately enough for their purposes. 



“Monsieur is sure of these sizes?”  The jeweler’s eyes gave nothing away.  Valjean knew nothing of sizing rings but he knew his own hands were not small, and Javert’s were quite large; neither at all like Cosette’s.  



“Yes, my daughter took the measurements herself.”



The jeweler made no further comment, but congratulated him whole-heartedly as he lay the rings in a small, velvet lined wooden box.  



***



Cosette was in a daze of happiness.  Valjean tried to tell himself that it was only natural, that this was the way of things.  But he had never seen her so happy as now, when she was planning on leaving him for good.  It broke his heart, but he must not let her see. 



It felt to Valjean like their trips to visit Marius grew longer by the day.  
Gillenormand made good on his promises to help Cosette prepare for the wedding, and showered her with bridal gifts.  Fine old clothes in every color were hers.  She looked every inch the lady, and Valjean told himself that this is what he would have wanted for her.  With a pang, he wished that Fantine could have seen her now.  



Valjean knew very little of weddings, but he heard all about them now at great length from Cosette, who was herself learning as she went.  Gillenormand took the liberty of inviting a rather large number of old family friends.  He arranged for a ceremony and mass to take place at an elegant church.  There were fine coaches to be rented, and a banquet to be planned.  Cosette assured him that Gillenormand had told her of the fine chandeliers and candelabras which needed to be rented out.  There were flowers to be ordered, and champagne to be stocked.  String musicians were to be hired.  Valjean watched, offering an opinion here and there when Cosette asked for one, but mostly staying aloof.



It was with more secrecy that Valjean prepared for his own wedding.  Of course, his own vows would be part of a very small affair.  They would be wed at home.  After some discussion, they decided on Valjean’s home in the Rue Plumet as the most suitable place.  Valjean cited the garden, and the privacy, and lack of a nosey portress.  In his mind, though, he did not like the idea of their marriage being started in a home that Javert had once shared with another lover.  



He and Javert debated for a long time the merits of telling anyone about the ceremony in advance.  Valjean was in agony over whether or not to invite Cosette.  What would she think?  Would she think he was making a mockery of her own wedding?  Javert was in favor of inviting family only:  Moineau, Jeanne Xavier, Cosette, and Marius.  He helpfully pointed out that he had no surviving family that was not also family of Valjean’s.  But Valjean balked at inviting Marius, in particular.  While he knew that Cosette herself had no objection to their relationship, he worried that Marius would be upset if he knew, and Valjean did not want to risk anything coming in the way of Cosette’s happiness prior to her wedding day.  


In the end, after discussing it at great length, they decided to marry alone.  They could present it to the others in their lives as a fait accompli.  Javert had rolled his eyes at the idea of Valjean keeping yet another secret from his daughter.  But both of them were rather solitary men, and they would marry as they lived.  It seemed fitting.


As a wedding gift to Javert, Valjean arranged for a new outfit to be made for him by a fine tailor.  He gave Javert the directions to the shop, but did not accompany him there.  He himself planned to wear the outfit he was having made for Cosette’s wedding.  Cosette had hinted as strongly as she could that he should see a tailor himself, and although he paid little attention to clothes, he had acquiesced for her sake.  He had selected a simple outfit of black and white, with a deep green waistcoat, but well cut and made of quality wool and silks.  



***



As Cosette’s wedding approached, Valjean had serious reservations about escorting Cosette and signing documents.  He did not want to do anything which could de-legitimize the day.  But Javert sat him down and laid down the law - if Valjean would not tell Cosette the full truth, he must at least not decline to be fully involved in her wedding on the basis of what he refused to tell her.  “Did you not learn anything?” he scolded Valjean.  “Don’t make these decisions on behalf of the people who love you.”  Valjean was sheepish but gave in.  



Cosette had insisted that Javert come to her wedding, as a friend of the family.  Jeanne was coming, of course, but other than her, there were so few guests of the bride and groom themselves.  Javert was reluctant to impose, but when this was conveyed to him, he agreed to go.



The day of Cosette’s wedding came at last - an overcast day in February.  All else was as perfect as it could have been for the young couple.  Valjean signed the papers in the civil ceremony using his own name - Cosette was far too distracted to notice any irregularity.  He concealed the sadness he felt as he escorted her into the church.  The interior of the church where they held the religious ceremony was much finer than the 
Saint-Jacques-du-Haut-Pas
 where they customarily attended mass.  Caught in the Mardi Gras traffic afterwards, it was as though all of Paris had turned out to celebrate the wedding of Cosette and Marius.  



The wedding banquet at the 
Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire was the finest affair Valjean had ever attended, and of course the same was true of Cosette herself.  The girl had lived such a restricted life, and he was surprised to watch her respond to all this joy and motion as a sunflower to the sun.  Cosette seemed dazzled with the lights, the music, the enticing smells, and above all, her own happiness. 
After a very lengthy toast from M. 
Gillenormand, whose loud voice and imperious manner commandeered the room, Valjean felt put on the spot as eyes turned to him as the father of the bride.



He stood up nervously and struggled to say a few words unrehearsed.  “May these children know happiness together for the rest of their lives, and may the Lord look down on them with kindness.  I know that I have never wanted anything more than this for my Cosette.”  He was unable to gaze upon the small crowd of strangers as he spoke, but as he finished, he looked up at Cosette, who was smiling beatifically at him.  When he sat back down feeling flushed, Javert was on his right hand side, calming him with his presence. 



He and Javert stayed until the end of the wedding banquet, watching the younger guests dance the quadrille.  



“Do you dance, Javert?” he found himself asking. 



“A little.  When I must.  Why, are you asking me to dance?” asked Javert with a tilt of his head and a slightly coquettish air.



“No, I’m afraid not.  I’ve never learned.”  



“No matter, I’m no great dancer.  Perhaps one day I’ll teach you what I know, though.”



They sat back and continued to watch.  Perhaps Cosette had taken lessons, as she proved a surprisingly graceful dancer.  In her gown of white she outshone all the other dancers in the hall.  As the guests began to depart, they said their goodbyes to Cosette, Valjean with a tinge of melancholy that he chose to ignore.



***



Cosette moved in with Marius after their wedding, naturally.  Valjean kept his grief to himself as he adjusted to this new reality.  He visited Cosette every day, and loved to hear stories about her new life, but it was necessarily a life that he did not belong to, and every time found himself dreading returning to his empty apartment.  Again, he found himself rejecting Cosette’s offer to come live with them in the large family house.  He had seen what power his past had to harm people he loved, and he wished no part of that on Cosette.  Not now, especially, when she was so happy.  



He took to taking long solitary walks around Paris, and found himself arriving earlier and earlier at Javert’s apartment, to ensure that he was there every hour that Javert was.  



“You may as well move in here,” Javert quipped one evening as he came home late again, to find Valjean stretched out on an armchair and engrossed in a book.  “It would save you a lot of time.”



“Nonsense. I enjoy the exercise I get walking over here.  And think of the impropriety.  It wouldn’t look right for me, unmarried, to be living with you.”



Javert laughed.  “Oh, it wouldn’t, would it?  I suppose I should cancel my plans for this evening, then, for propriety’s sake.”



“It would be for the best,” said Valjean, grinning now and with his head tilted.  Javert approached. 



“I would never wish to trespass on your sense of virtue,” said Javert, leaning over and resting his hands on the arms of the chair, trapping him.



“I should hope not.”  They stared at each other for long moments, as if wondering who would break first.  Finally, Valjean brought his hand to the back of Javert’s head, and pulled him in.



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


When the day on which they were to be wed finally arrived, it was a cold but sunny day in March.  In some ways, Valjean could be very traditional, and he insisted that they spend the evening before apart.  Valjean arrived at the house on Rue Plumet first, dressed in his finest clothes and for once entering through the front entrance.  

They had come here together on a rare day when Javert was free, to show him the place.  Valjean no longer wanted to have any secrets from Javert, and he thought of this as another olive branch extended after their temporary separation.  Javert had been immediately struck with utility of the property, as had Valjean when he first saw it.  He had looked at Valjean admiringly, telling him it was no wonder he never caught him.  Valjean tried to point out the wild romantic beauty of the front garden, and Javert nodded along, but he had the impression that such a thing was not really to his taste.  

He heard the gate creak open, and went to see if it was Javert.  When he saw him, Valjean breathed in sharply.  He knew that Javert’s budget limited him, and that it was often an advantage for him to dress as though he belonged to the criminal classes, but he could not believe what he was now seeing.  

Javert wore his hair long, with the gray and black wig that Valjean secretly favored.  His dress shirt and cravat were perfectly white, not having suffered through the indignities of many washes.  His black tailcoat cut in the fashion of the day highlighted Javert’s slim form, while a pale blue waistcoat prevented him from looking too severe.  A matching ribbon tied back his long hair, and a second, gold waistcoat peeked out from under the first.

Valjean caught himself staring, and greeted his companion.  He felt a little shy, not knowing how to behave with one’s bridegroom on one’s own wedding day.  Javert checked his watch.  

“Monsieur Archambeau should be here in about a half an hour,” he said.  

Valjean went inside, throwing open the drapes to the large drawing-room.  He had cleaned the room the other day himself, and aired it out so that it no longer smelled of dust.  Although it did not look terribly lived in, some of his and Cosette’s books still resided there, and the fine tapestries that predated Valjean’s lease of the house still adorned the wall.  It was pleasantly bright and cheerful with the windows open - a colorful room.  With nothing more that needed to be done there, he made his way back outside to rejoin Javert.

When Archambeau arrived, in his robe of office, he shook both of their hands warmly.  

“You must be Jean Valjean,” he said.  

Valjean bowed his assent.  “Monsieur le Président, thank you for doing this for us.”

“It’s my pleasure, and please, call me Archambeau.”  He allowed Valjean to lead him into the house, and show him to the drawing-room where they planned to be wed. “Now, did you look over those papers I gave you, Javert?”

“Yes.”

“And do the two of you understand that even though this is not a legally binding undertaking, it is not one to be trifled with?”

“Yes,” and, “We understand.”

“Then let us get started,” said the judge.  They stood as a small group in the center of the room, the empty armchairs their only audience.  Valjean and Javert took their places in front of him, facing one another.  

Archambeau gave a preliminary prayer.  It briefly occurred to Valjean to be grateful that Javert had been so willing to defer to his religious beliefs when agreeing to this marriage, but then he quickly focused his attention back on the judge’s words.  

“Since it is your intention to enter into marriage, join your right hands and declare your consent before God.”

They took one another’s hand.  Valjean wondered if Javert felt as nervous as he did, but the hand in his remained firm as their eyes met.

“I, Jean Valjean, take you, Alexandre Xavier, to be my husband.  I promise to be true to you in good times and in bad, in sickness and in health.  I will love and honor you all the days of my life.”

Javert repeated the words back to him, equally solemn.  

“May the Lord in his goodness strengthen your consent and fill you both with his blessings.  What God has joined, men must not divide.”  Archambeau took the small box of rings in his hand.  “May the Lord bless these rings which you give to each other as the sign of your love and faithfulness.”

“Alexandre, take this ring as a sign of my love and faithfulness.  In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit.”  He put the ring on Javert’s finger, trying hard to steady his own hand.

When Javert repeated the words and slipped the other ring over Valjean’s finger, it felt like a caress. 

“As by these rings you symbolize your marriage bond, may their meaning sink into your hearts and bind your lives together by devotion and faithfulness to one another.  Forasmuch as Jean Valjean and Alexandre Xavier have consented together in holy wedlock, and have witnessed this before myself and the Lord, and have made solemn vows to each other and have declared this by joining hands and by giving and receiving a ring, I pronounce that you are married together.

“May all blessings attend you,

May joy pervade your lives together,

May your home be forever a place of peace and true fulfillment.”

Javert, beaming, stepped forward and kissed Valjean.  Valjean trembled in his arms, the emotion of the day becoming overwhelming for him.  

When he looked up, he saw that Monsieur le Président Archambeau was smiling at them as well.  The judge congratulated the couple heartily, and then said his farewells to them.  It had gone by so quickly, but Valjean was well acquainted with how quickly a life could turn around.  

***

After the ceremony, Valjean took Javert out to a finer restaurant than the ones that they were in the habit of visiting, in the Palais Royal district. Despite the early hour, the long, high ceilinged hall of the restaurant was already crowded.  To Valjean’s relief, they did not stand out at all in the crowd of well-dressed ladies and gentlemen.  

Brilliant light from the chandeliers reflected off the surfaces, including the gilt framed mirrors and paintings.  They ordered a bottle of champagne, and, eyes gleaming, drank to one another.  

Neither of them being in the habit of eating at such a fine restaurant, they ordered  prix fixe.  For his part, Valjean was a man of simple tastes and found the elaborate bill of fare overwhelmingly long, and Javert had agreed with him.  The waiter brought an abundance of fine dishes to them, starting with a soup and working through courses on to pastries, fruit, and coffee.  Champagne flowed throughout, leaving the normally sober Valjean feeling lightheaded.  

They spoke little during the meal, feeling reluctant to speak in public about what had come to pass that day, or perhaps to break the spell which it felt like they were caught up in.  There was little need to speak, though.  Their eyes did the talking between them, and Javert had stretched a long leg to touch Valjean’s shoe under the table.  Valjean was aware of the subtle pressure of the ring on his finger - a novel sensation for a man not accustomed to wearing jewelry.  It bound him to Javert as surely as the words they had spoken earlier.  

After dinner, they strolled through the Jardin de Tuileries on their roundabout way to the empty apartment at Rue de l'Homme Armé.  It was closer than Rue Plumet, and Valjean did not want to invite Javert to the simple porter’s lodge where he had lived, or to Cosette’s rooms.  Javert, accepting his eccentricity, had agreed.  

***

When they shut the door on the outside world and found themselves alone, Valjean found himself feeling unexpectedly shy around Javert.  His husband.  He could not wrap his mind around the word. 

He and Javert slowly undressed one another.  He had not felt this self-conscious around Javert since the night on which he had given him his virginity, or the night Javert had first traced his scars.  They kissed, more passionately than they had in front of the judge.  

There was no wedding banquet, no flowers, no dancing.  Just this dance between the two of them, one leading, then the other.  Javert maneuvered Valjean gently back towards the bed.  Valjean stood on his toes, and kissed him hard.  He felt Javert’s lips curl into a smile under his.  He tested out another kiss, thinking with joy that now Javert was absolutely  his.  Their love had become transmuted into something more solid and lasting today.  As Javert pulled him down, he thought  this is a sacrament.  They intertwined for long moments.  Valjean was surprised how much he found himself wanting Javert inside him.  They had only done that one time, and Javert had not asked for it again.  Valjean didn’t want to disappoint Javert, who was probably expecting the other way around, but for some reason this felt important.

He whispered his wishes into his new husband’s ear.  In the fading light of the room, Javert looked surprised but pleased.  He kissed Valjean from throat to clavicle.  Still feeling the wine from dinner, and all the emotions of the day, Valjean found it easier this time to relax into Javert’s hands as he worked him open with gentle strokes.  Javert laid him on his back, and spread his legs.   Anything, Valjean thought.  Valjean had forgotten to provide for this part, he realized with embarrassment.  Javert looked around, then raided the small lamp that Valjean kept in his bedroom.  When Javert entered him, he welcomed the feeling of fullness, the pressure of his lover.  He clung to Javert as they began to move together.  He felt the pressure exactly where he needed it, that spot that he had never known was within him until Javert first touched it.  He cried out as his whole body was transformed by pleasure, into something that was utterly Javert’s. 

***

The day after their wedding, Valjean called on Cosette, as was his daily habit.  They settled down in the armchairs of the parlor, around the fireplace which was still lit at this time of year, as he thought of how to best tell her what he had done.  She caught him up on the birds of the garden, her attempts to grow strawberries, and comings and goings of the household.  Then she turned her attention to him.  

“How have you been keeping?  Papa! ” she shrieked.  “What is this?”  She pointed to the simple ring resting on his finger.  “It looks like you have some explaining to do.”  Her look was vaguely accusatory.  

“I…”  He found he couldn’t find the words, even though he had so badly wanted to tell her this.  He unconsciously fiddled with the ring, rolling it in circles around his finger.  “I think you understand how I feel for Javert?”

“I understand,” she said with a faint blush.  

“Well.  I said some vows with him.  To be his companion, for life.”

“Oh,” Cosette brightened.  “For a moment, I was afraid that you - nevermind.  Why didn’t you tell me immediately?  Not immediately - why didn’t you tell me beforehand?”

“It’s very irregular, is it not?”

“Well, yes.  But you are my father, and you have always been irregular.  I don’t mind.  You should have invited me.”

He laughed lightly at her pouting; possibly a mistake.  

“It’s not funny.  Why do you always push me away?  I’m a married woman, you know, no longer a child.  And you know I like M. Javert.”

“I thought it would be better this way,” he said.

“Why, though?  Did you just not want me with you?  Do I mean so little to you, that I am easy to push away like this?”  There was no longer a chance of mistaking Cosette’s distress for anything else.  

“Cosette,” he said, taking a long breath.  “It’s …never been easy.  But.  I know how happy you are with Marius, living here.  You do realize that what I have with Javert - not everyone sees it the way you do, right?  I would be cast out of society, had I ever chosen to be part of it.  I would not see you dragged down with me.  And don’t resent Javert.  He wanted to invite you, but I overruled him.”

“It’s not just about Javert, Papa; you have always treated me like this.”  She was near tears now.  

“I’ve had my reasons.  More than you could know.”

“Of course it was more than I could know -  you would not tell me! ”  

Valjean rested his head in his hands.  He could not stand to see her this upset.  And he knew in his heart that she was right; he just did not know if he was strong enough to do what must be done.  He thought briefly of what Javert would say to him in this situation, and steeled himself.  

“You are right,” he said finally.  “Close the door.  I will tell you everything.”

Cosette looked at him in astonishment.  Perhaps the years of secrecy had made her think that this was a fight she would never win, he thought with sorrow.  She got up, shutting the parlor door, and returning to her chair to watch Valjean intently.  

“Cosette:  I love you, and I have always loved you.  I want you to remember that.  But I’m not the man you think I am.  I grew up as a simple peasant in Brie.  I stole bread to feed Jeanne’s children, but I was caught.  I’ve…been in prison.  Twenty years, all told.”  Cosette gasped - this was longer than she had been alive.  “I’ve lived under a false name since I’ve been out.  I’ve tried to atone for my crimes, but I’ve been a wanted man for my actions when I first was released.  That is why I hide so much from you.  I never wanted you to live in fear the way I have.  I didn’t want to ruin your chances of living a happy, respectable life.  That’s all I wanted for you.”  

“You said you use a false name?”

“I was born Jean Valjean.  Javert still knows me as such.”  Cosette was reeling from the implications of all of this, but she herself had already taken her new husband’s name.  She would be secure in her new life.

“‘Valjean’,” she said, trying out the name incredulously.  “But…why Javert then?  A police inspector?”

“He’s a good man.  I’ve known him for years.  And he recently helped me obtain a pardon.”  He knew that was no explanation, but he did not feel he owed her an explanation of his choice of partner.  He also was not ready to delve into the history between the two of them; now was not the time.

“So you’ve been pardoned!”  She smiled her first smile since this turn in the conversation.  “I knew it couldn’t be that serious.”

“Only recently.  And then you were to be married, and I was afraid that…things would be called off if anyone knew of our background.”

“Pah,” she said.  “As if Marius would ever care for that.  He’s a lawyer, you know.”

As he feared, Cosette continued to press for details, and as he had promised, he continued to explain.  Everything that he had hoped to hide from her for the past ten years came out, everything except the life and death of Fantine.  When she asked about her, he smiled and told her it was not his secret to tell, as he had always done.  None of it was as bad as he had feared, though.  Cosette’s surprise had not turned to anger; her sympathy never turned to disgust.  After all his years carrying this knowledge alone, it was a relief to set down this great burden.  

***

Javert was delighted when he found out that Cosette had been told everything.

“And how did she react?” he asked, head tilted and a smile on his face.  “No, don’t tell me, I can already tell from the way you are not crushed.”

“That’s a fine way of putting it.”

“My apologies,” said Javert, “but I never was worried the way you were.”

“You are not her father.”

“Nevertheless, I’ve met the girl, and I have some faith in her.”  Javert was beaming.  Valjean had not realized how invested he had been in his telling the truth to Cosette.  But they had pledged that their lives would be as one now, and decisions that Valjean made, and the way he chose to live, would be affecting Javert as well.  

They began to tell others about their ceremony retroactively.  Moineau congratulated them enthusiastically, saying that he was glad to see Javert with a companion.  Javert confessed to Valjean that he had let Vidocq know in advance the reason he was requesting the day off, and had received his rather hearty congratulations.  Valjean could tell that it made Javert happy to have gotten a blessing of sorts from his long term mentor.  The only disappointment was Jeanne, who told Valjean that she loved him, but that she needed time to think about this.  It was simply too shocking for her brother to reappear and marry a man, her stepson of all people, and she told him that she hoped he would understand.  Their Sunday outings were put on pause.

Life went on, and Valjean and Javert counted their blessings for the fact that they were well past any stage in which they needed to court the approval of others.  Valjean moved into Javert’s apartment, carrying his small valise, and arranging porters for the few other possessions he wished to bring.  They had briefly debated which of their properties to move into, but here Javert was mere steps away from Vidocq’s agency, and Valjean was close to Cosette.  Despite the fact that it was the smallest, location had won out.  Now that Toussaint had gone to live with Cosette as a lady’s maid, it was only the two of them anyway.  They had all they needed.

***

Valjean awoke early the next morning, in the apartment which was now his.  It was far too early; he was feeling restless. He pushed aside the heavy curtains, exposing the slate gray of early dawn, the last brightest stars still visible.  He studied them for a moment, then turned back to where Javert slept peacefully.  He settled the blankets that he had disturbed back around Javert, sat down on the edge of the bed, and watched him breathe.  

The sky lightened gradually as Valjean sat lost in thoughts and emotions.  Pinks followed deep purples.   When had he felt so free to simply watch the sun rise like this? Shades of orange followed, as Valjean counted through all the recent things he had to be grateful for.  Gold brightened the sky, and Javert began to stir.  Perhaps he should not have let this much light in - Javert liked it dark in the mornings - but the man would be needing to go to work anyway.  It didn’t matter if he woke a bit early. Valjean leaned in and kissed his husband. 

His response was partway between a mumble and a groan, but eventually Javert’s eyes opened and he managed a smile.  Sunlight streamed in as they kissed again, both fully awake, and happier than Valjean had ever dared hope.  

 - End -

Words from the wedding ceremony are mostly not mine - taken heavily from “Into the Garden: A Wedding Anthology,” edited by Robert Hass and Stephen Mitchell. I combined text of the Catholic and the non-theistic example ceremonies, editing a bit for length and same-gender participants. I figured this is probably fair use since the ceremonies obviously aren’t their completely original creations and the book is meant to be drawn on while putting together your own ceremony.

We are at the end! I got really attached to this thing, though, and I wasn’t ready to stop writing it, so now there’s going to be an epilogue, too. Marked complete because the main story is done, but please stick around for the epilogue if you feel so inclined! Hopefully it will be up next week.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



The moment he had stepped into the room, Valjean had felt out of place.  Music and warm air flooded out to meet him in the cool evening.  He and Javert had traveled by coach from their home to the 
Faubourg Saint-Germain, lined with the hôtels particuliers of Paris’ elite. The nights were growing longer again, marking the autumn of the first year of their union.  



After they entered the fine home where the ball was being held, a servant was on hand to accept their overcoats.  Another servant waiting by the entrance to the ballroom announced their names as they went through the doorway.  No one in the already crowded room marked their arrival, and Valjean was grateful for small mercies. 



The music was playing loudly, piano and strings producing a lively melody that people could dance to.  It was early on in the evening, and few of the people gathered in the room had begun to dance yet.  Most were gathered around the walls of the room, the sounds of their voices rising to compete with the music.  Servants carried around trays of wine, while plates of appetizers rested on small round tables placed in the corners of the room.  The room was strategically lit and decorated so that light seemed to shine off every surface.  Neither Valjean or Javert were in the habit of lighting many candles, and the room they now stood in felt as bright as if it were midday.  



As he watched further, Valjean was surprised to notice that not everyone wore the same fashionable finery.  Some among the crowd wore clothes that were respectable, but not of the latest cuts or the finest materials.  He breathed out a bit, feeling slightly less out of place.  



They made their way to a relatively less crowded space around the edge of the room, as they surveyed it.  Javert had lightly rested his hand on Valjean’s arm while they walked; whether in jest or earnest, Valjean was not sure.  He normally found Javert’s touch reassuring, but that night he felt exposed and anxious as they walked together in the crowded room.  



***



Weeks ago, Javert had received the invitation in the mail.  “For you, Monsieur l'Inspecteur,” the portress had said indifferently, handing over the fine envelope.  



Months after their wedding ceremony, Valjean and Javert had found a new apartment.  Javert had been reluctant to move, but they had found a larger set of rooms located near Javert’s work at Vidocq’s agency. It allowed them to properly host guests, such as when Cosette and her husband came to visit.  As a further advantage, their new portress showed far less interest in the lives of the building's tenants, as long as they produced the rent on time.  This came as a relief to Valjean, who had retained his instinctual dread of gossip.  Nearly as much as the room for Cosette, though, Valjean valued the clean slate which the new apartment represented.  As they had decided what they would bring to the new apartment, Valjean knew better than to ask Javert to part with Isaac’s books and journals.  He had schooled himself to have the grace to see that Isaac had been an important part of Javert’s life.  But he was deeply grateful to move out of the old apartment which must have been marked by so many memories of Javert’s old lover.  



Having torn open the envelope and read its contents, Javert looked up consideringly.  He said to Valjean, “This is an invitation from my acquaintance, the Marquis de Custine.  To attend a ball he will be holding in three weeks.  Would you like to go with me?”






“How are 

you 

acquainted with a marquis?”  Valjean asked, skipping over the question.  



“Through my work - how else?”



“And how came you to be invited to this private ball, then?” Valjean asked, eyeing the invitation with the gilt edges.  



“The same way I always do.  The host feels himself in my debt, although in this case it’s the most trifling debt you could imagine.”



Valjean wasn’t sure how to ask what else was bothering him.  “And we…You and I could go to this dance, together?”



Javert grinned widely.  “Don’t you worry about that.  Custine’s a sod, same as us.  He’s got a companion, good as a husband, and another lover on the side.  Everyone knows it,” he continued, smiling at the shocked look on Valjean’s face.



Valjean recovered and shot back, “Don’t get any ideas - you’re mine.”



“You know I have to wish to roam.  Perhaps they don’t satisfy like you do,” commented Javert, stretching in a way that struck Valjean as faintly licentious.  



“Javert!”  The man did not look apologetic in the least.  Valjean shook his head slightly.  “Will you tell me what you did to get on his good side?”  



“It must have been nearly ten years ago now.  The Marquis de Custine was heading home from a tryst one night, with a man, naturally, when he was brutally attacked.  He escaped permanent harm, but he was badly shaken.  This was during Delavau’s time, of course.  And do you know what he did?”  Javert didn’t wait for an answer.  “He made sure to leak all the details of the attack to the papers.  ‘Nothing to fear, ladies and gentlemen, the streets are safe for moral citizens.’  He didn’t raise a hand to bring Custine’s attackers to justice.”



“That’s terrible,” said Valjean with feeling.



“Of course, I didn’t have the slightest bit of influence with Delavau,” continued Javert.  “So I went on alone.  I asked around a bit, among the soldiery, but mostly I would go by Custine’s house and make sure all was well around the end of my shift, when I could.  The man was absurdly grateful, as if the little I could do for him would make up for the lack of any official investigation.  When he’s in Paris, and when he is giving one of his balls, he remembers me.  I haven’t taken him up on it until now.  The man is persistent, I will give him that.”



“He’s grateful to you.  And you are not an easy man to forget,” said Valjean with fondness.



They returned to the topic a few times over the next few days.  In the end, they had not been able to resist the temptation and novelty of a social gathering where they could openly appear as lovers, and had responded that they would be delighted to attend.  



***



When the day had come, early in the evening, Valjean had stood watching Javert get ready for the ball.  It was a more elaborate procedure than he had imagined, and he stood nearly ready in his nicest suit of clothes while Javert was seated at the vanity.  There was, of course, no need for Javert to disguise his identity, but he had assured Valjean that it would be entirely proper for him to come dressed up as he pleased.



Valjean watched with an amused curiosity as Javert carefully painted his eyelashes.  He applied a type of dyed powder to his face, not attempting to change his complexion, but rather giving it a more youthful glow.  Valjean hesitated over the question, which he had never directly asked until now.  “You enjoy this, Javert?”



“I need to stay in practice,” he replied indifferently.  Valjean felt no more enlightened than he had been before asking.  He continued to watch.  Javert’s appearance was not overtly feminine, but neither was it a typical disguise he might wear to trail a criminal.  Perhaps, thought Valjean, the venue would allow Javert an unusual freedom of expression.  He had little idea of what to expect from the night, after all.  He seemed unlikely to get an answer from his husband.



When he had finished applying his paints, Javert dressed in the fine wedding outfit which he had little occasion to wear since.  Valjean helped him unnecessarily with his fine white cravat, smoothing the knot as Javert looked down at him through lashes that suddenly seemed striking. 



“There,” he said quietly, setting his hand down to rest on Javert’s chest.  Desire had begun to pool in Valjean, and he rather regretted the need to go out at all.  



***



Having made their entrance, Valjean and Javert hovered around the edges of the ballroom, watching guests dance.  Wine flowed freely, passed around by servers from silver trays, and loosening the tongues of the guests.  Both men found themselves in a rather false position at a society dance, as they had little to say and knew few of the other guests to say it to.  But the guests at this ball were a highly varied lot.  Artists and writers mingled with the highest social classes, and with various members of the lower classes.  Valjean was beginning to suspect a trend - the fine aristocrats were the society Custine had been born to, but the underworld in which Custine travelled, in which men and women could find lovers of their own sex, knew fewer class distinctions.   



The ladies’ dresses dazzled in their varied colors.  Full skirts, falling only to the ankle, twirled around the dancers.  Cosette would have liked to view such a display, Valjean thought.  She had developed quite the eye for clothing.  It was rather lost on Valjean, although he thought the colors made a fine display.



As he watched the crowd, it became quite clear to Valjean who their host was even before he met the Marquis de Custine.  Chatter and attention buzzed around the man like a cloud as he made his way through his guests.  Evidently an attentive host, he was heading in the general direction of where Valjean stood with Javert.  Spotting them, Custine made his way over.



“Monsieur Javert!” he exclaimed, clutching Javert’s right hand in the two of his.  “It’s been so long.”



Javert gave a low bow, and looked quickly between the men on either side of him.  “Marquis de Custine, please meet my husband, Monsieur Jean Valjean.  Valjean, the Marquis.”



“Charmed!” Custine said excitedly, glancing to the plain gold ring on Javert’s hand.  “Javert, you dog, I had no idea you were one of us.”



Javert said with a shrug, “I’ve been alone a long time.”



“And now you show up out of the blue married to this fellow.  Quite a dramatic end to your loneliness.”



Javert raised an eyebrow slightly, and placed a hand on his hip.  “Life has its unexpected turns.  How about you?  Still with your Sainte-Barbe?”



“Still.  He doesn’t expect me to forsake my other friends, though.  He’s never asked for a vow,” he said, looking at Valjean with open curiosity.  



“It suited us,” said Valjean, placing a hand on Javert’s arm.  He didn’t want to risk rudeness to their host, but he felt it was essential to make it clear that Javert was off limits.  



“I can see that!  I didn’t know that Inspector Javert here could smile.”  Perhaps at last feeling as though he had overstepped himself, he added, “You must forgive me, I am so delighted to find a cousin, as it were, that I have quite forgotten my manners.  And speaking of those manners, I must greet my other guests.  I will talk to you soon.  Please, make yourself merry.”  With another shake of Javert’s hand and a bow to Valjean, Custine was off.



“Friendly fellow,”  said Javert into the silence that followed in his wake. 



Valjean looked up at him with a smile, grateful to have him but unable to put it into words.  



***



In the days leading up to the ball, Javert had done his best to teach Valjean how to dance a waltz. They had pushed aside the furniture in their small parlor, creating a small practice space.  



They had tried it both ways, but found that they both preferred having Javert lead.  Valjean liked the idea of leading Javert around the dance floor, but their height difference was such that Valjean had to reach up to bring his hand to bear around Javert’s shoulder.  It was an uncomfortable position over time, and one in which he had little leverage.  Better to rest his hand against Javert’s arm and let him sweep him around the room.  They had quickly mastered the few steps that Javert knew together, even working without music. The embrace of the dance seemed curiously intimate for something that would be occurring in public, but Valjean was assured by Javert and Cosette both that this was the style these days.  Besides, it wouldn’t do to mess up a whole quadrille of younger, more practiced dancers by attempting to join them.  



***



On the night of the ball, Valjean and Javert watched the younger dancers move through elegant quadrilles, wine glasses in hand.  When a waltz began, Javert took Valjean’s hand and led him out towards the center of the room.  Valjean rested his left hand on Javert’s arm and pressed into his grip as they moved slowly through the room.  He tried to ignore all the other people in the room, anyone else who might be watching them.  Instead, he wished to focus only on the music and his partner.  When Valjean looked up from his feet, he met Javert’s eyes and was caught by them, missing a step and not minding in the slightest.  



Once he was able to relax into the sensation, the dancing was intoxicating.  It was an entirely different thing to be dancing to music, allowing the melody to meld with their movements.  Or at least attempting to do so.  Neither was an especially elegant dancer.  He felt they were out of place among the society folks, watching the practiced, graceful movements of the other dancers.  



Of course, after their first dance, they did not limit themselves to dancing only with one another.  Politeness demanded that they mingle with the other dancers.  It seemed to be an unspoken understanding at Custine’s that men were not limited to dancing with women, and women were not limited to waiting coyly for an invitation.  When not dancing with Valjean, Javert danced with men and women alike.  The tallest woman there had asked Javert to dance with her, giggling as he agreed.  



Valjean had asked a lady who was sitting alone to dance with him, but found himself in a rather false position, as he had barely practiced taking on the lead role.  Surely it would not be hard, he thought, as he would not have to move backwards.  But he struggled to cue his partner.  He had grown to rely on the cues from Javert, subtle presses and shifts of weight showing him his next move.  Now he was adrift with his relatively demure partner following him.  He was deeply grateful when the song had ended.



But this only led him into another form of social dance.  Alone, he was an easy target for conversation, and Valjean had never been in his element making casual small talk.  But he quickly found that the topic of his daughter, the new baroness, was an excellent one to bring up.  He could go on at length about the virtues and perfections of Cosette, and those he was talking to inevitably wanted to know who these Pontmercys were.  He deflected questions that touched on himself and his past.  A few more perceptive guests even asked about his “friend.”  It must be said that he hesitated, but he found the nerve to tell them that Javert was in fact his husband, in all but law.  In this unusual gathering, no one said a word against them, at least not to their faces.  Valjean watched with a smile as Javert completed another lap around the dance floor.  



***



Their lives together had formed a familiar routine.  Neither Valjean nor Javert were in the habit of socializing much beyond their immediate circle of family.  Cosette and Marius would come to visit them, and invite them over in turn.  Due to the demands of Javert’s work, Valjean frequently made these visits alone, but Javert was welcomed by the Pontmercys when he was able to make it.  Jeannot visited as well, and the cheerful youth was always welcome at their new home. 



Jeanne had reached out the other day with a tentative letter.  Valjean dared to hope as he held the envelope - what for, he couldn’t say.  He held it like a prayer for a moment before tearing it open and reading her message.  She had told Valjean that although she didn’t understand his actions, she still loved him.  



The pain remained after having read it, but perhaps Valjean could work past it.  Fate had already separated them for too many years.  Who knew how many they had left, she wrote - to waste any more of them seemed a terrible shame.



When Valjean read the letter to him, Javert had shown little interest in replying, but told Valjean to do as he saw fit.  Hesitantly, Valjean began meeting her for mass as they had previously been in the habit of doing.  They spoke little, and never on the rift between them, but it was a start.  They sat silently in their chairs underneath the high pale arches, perhaps a world apart.  Valjean could do little else. 



***



While they were taking a break and refreshing themselves with the wine and small sandwiches on hand, they continued watching the dancers.  They enjoyed the music, as it was very rare that either had the opportunity to listen to a band play.  They noticed that Custine had found himself free enough to dance, moving with practiced grace as his male partner led him in steps and spins.  In a break between songs, Custine returned to where Valjean and Javert were watching the dancers.  His dance partner trailed in his wake.  



“Monsieur Sainte-Barbe; Messieurs Valjean and Javert,” he said by way of introduction.  



“Charmed,” Sainte-Barbe said.  “May I have a dance with whichever of you gentlemen prefers to follow?”



Valjean looked to Javert, who nodded slightly.  “That’s me,” Valjean said, stepping towards Sainte-Barbe.



“That leaves us, Javert,” said Custine.  “I’ve never been one to stand on conventions - will you dance with me?”



“Gladly,” Javert said, taking Custine’s hand and leading him out as the next song began.



Valjean found he didn’t care for the change in partners, despite Sainte-Barbe’s friendly demeanor. He tried to tamp down the jealousy he felt when seeing Custine in Javert’s arms.  The other dancers had not inspired this feeling in him, but knowing that they were acquainted changed things.  Had perhaps Custine wanted Javert all those years ago?  He attempted to return his focus to his own partner, a friendly-seeming man of around his own height.  He was deeply self-conscious of the way his leg dragged, in a way that he had never been while dancing with Javert.  He tried to will the habitual limp away, losing time with the music as he did so.  He knew that the graceful marquis had no such flaw in his movements.



He was deeply grateful when the song ended and he was able to thank Sainte-Barbe and make his way over to the perimeter of the room with Javert and Custine.  



“- wherever did you find him?” asked Custine.



“Ha, that’s a story for you, and one I doubt he would want me telling.  But suffice it to say he saved my life during the trouble last year.  I arranged a position in the 
Sûreté
 for him, and we have been together ever since.”



Valjean was uncomfortable being the topic of conversation.  He listened to them continuing to talk.  Javert would pay for this later, he thought.  He spent a few pleasant moments considering exactly how he could get Javert to make this up to him, then recollected himself.  



He spoke with Sainte-Barbe, who was again standing nearby, about the weather, and how fine the turnout was that night.  His conversation partner soon spotted a friend of his, though, and made his excuses to Valjean.  He rejoined Custine and Javert, who were apparently deep in conversation about the recent reforms to the 
Sûreté
.  



Custine was shaking his head.  “Little better than Delavau, then.”



“I wouldn’t have thought it, but the department cannot afford any more scandals, they say,” replied Javert.  



“Well, best wishes to you, my friend.  I hope that I may call you so, Monsieur?”  asked Custine. 



“Of course,” answered Javert.  



“You must come back; you and your husband, the next time I’m entertaining.”



“Well, my work allows me little free time for social calls.”



“Your excuses!  Do know that you are welcome, though,” he said, touching Javert’s shoulder as he left to speak with his other guests.



Javert smiled down at Valjean and any jealousy that he may have been feeling melted away.  



“Will you dance this next dance with me?”  Javert asked with an outstretched hand.



“Gladly,” he said, taking it.  Couples moved on and off of the dance floor as the players shifted into a new song.  They moved to the middle of the crowd, allowing quick, adept dancers to pass them by.  It did not take long to settle comfortably back into a three beat rhythm.  



***



They took their leave at nearly two in the morning.  The younger members of the crowd were still dancing; the more sociable still catching up among all their acquaintances.  Valjean could not remember the last time he had stayed out so late.  Perhaps the time that he had accompanied Javert on that rather dangerous stakeout of the violently jealous captain’s mistress …



The cool night air felt refreshing against his face as they exited into the courtyard.  He was glad that they had come, but was looking forward to getting back home and having Javert to himself.  The stars shown vividly above them, competing with the gas lamps lighting the street.  He linked his arm with Javert’s for a while longer as they waited for a cab.  A servant had been dispatched to the nearest cab-stand in order to request that the required number of vehicles be sent to the residence.  There was a small queue of guests waiting outside, loading themselves into the cabs and calling out cheerfully to one another as the cabs arrived to take them home.



Valjean ran his hand down Javert’s back in the cover of the night.  The twin thrills of intimacy and possession ran through him.  The evening had been a fine one.  But as he stepped into the fiacre with a glance back towards Javert, he knew that they needed nothing else.  He had finally found a home, and it was with Javert, whether they were at a fine gathering, on an assignment, or alone in their apartment.  The cab jolted into motion, but already he was home.  


The timeline for this epilogue was a bit of an experiment - I hope it worked for you. I just wanted to write about them going to a ball together (sorry, Coco!) but it didn’t fit into my main story. 

The Marquis de Custine was a real person. I did my best to stick with what was known about him in this epilogue. Unfortunately the gay-bashing incident and subsequent police response was based in fact, although of course the Javert part was fictional. But the elaborate parties and multiple boyfriends were also real, so. It gets better, I guess, even in the 1830s.

And finally, thanks for reading! I’m working on another long Valvert project for NaNoWriMo, but I don’t think it’s going to be ready for publication anytime soon. But I’m really excited about it. Check it out if you want!