Title: The Indescribable Rizz of Inspector Javert
Work ID: 47609653
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert's indescribable autistic rizz, JVJ is a handsome bear, Javert is a hateful gay homophobe, javert does not understand or approve of 'pronouns', He's just a massive bitch, Modern AU, non-binary cosette
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 2/2

There is nothing that interests Javert less than pride parades apart from perhaps policing pride parades in the boiling heat of summer with the sun’s rays reflecting off of the pavement and cooking him alive. But here he is, one of the gays; one of the department's minority representatives or something with his silly little pin of the gay flag on the front of his uniform and his hat pulled low over his eyes to hide his embarrassment. Javert cannot say he likes gay people: they’re loud and flamboyant and wear silly little outfits and make their identities everyone else’s problem. Javert has never been harassed for being homosexual because he has never dressed like a gay man, except of course his hair, which he has cut in bangs, and that has led to him frequently being referred to as ‘Michelle Obama’ behind his back. Thankfully, Javert has no friends and all of the other police officers here are either friendlier towards gays than he is or as annoyed to be here as he is. He tucks his thumbs in his belt and is grateful there’s no chance anyone will recognise him.

 

That is until he turns around and immediately meets the eyes of Jean Valjean.

 

THE Jean Valjean. The bane of his existence. The man he outed as a long-time fraud living under a presumed identity only to watch as the man was pardoned and praised for his redemption. The only relief is that Jean Valjean looks as horrified to see him as he is to see Jean Valjean.

 

It takes Javert a moment to notice anything other than Jean Valjean. What he does eventually notice is that Valjean is accompanied by one of those university girls- they/thems?- with pink dyed hair and a bunch of flags and pins on her jacket and all number of paraphernalia that marks her out as someone who would stop Javert mid arrest to film him on her phone. The next thing he notices is that Jean is wearing a shirt that says ‘Daddy Bear’ accompanied by a Bear Pride heart. (Javert knows all the symbols because he researched it for work, no other reason.) Javert turns away quickly and scowls, pretending he didn’t see the man. He doesn’t want to have seen the man. 

 

It’s all going to be ok until he hears a slight, nervous throat clearing. He shudders. After a second he swallows heavily, turns and looks down. It is indeed Jean Valjean.

“What do you want,” Javert croaks and then adds, “sir?” to be polite.

At least Valjean looks suitably ashamed of himself,

“Um,” he says, “hello Inspector, I um…”

“Spit it out!” Javert snaps, quickly growing impatient and red-faced. Jean’s face screws up in discomfort,

“Um, my daughter noticed we recognised each other and she wanted me to talk to you. I… didn’t have the heart to tell her you wouldn’t be happy to see me.”

“Well,” Javert grumbles, “you’ve spoken to me now.”

“Yes,” Valjean says, “but, well, could you speak to me for a moment so it looks like we’re catching up? She is always complaining I have no friends and don’t speak to anyone and-”

“That’s not my problem.”

Valjean’s full, pink lips screw up again in a helpless frown. Javert puffs through his nose. Valjean says,

“Your flag.”

Javert stares at him. Valjean points at his shirt,

“Your flag.”

Javert looks down, expecting Valjean to flick his nose but he finds the finger pointing at his pride flag pin,

“Yes. Work supplied.”

“Oh.”

Javert points at Valjean’s shirt. Valjean blushes pink,

“I’m a bit embarrassed,” he says, “I don’t really know what a bear is but my daughter made it for me.”

“It’s a muscular, often tall, hairy gay man,” Javert says.

“Oh,” Valjean says, “I suppose that makes sense. Why a bear?”

Javert puffs with annoyance,

“That’s got to be common sense.”

“Do they have lots of animals? I thought gay people were defined by different colours?”

“What are you talking about?” Javert says, putting his hands on his hips,

“The flag.”

“Different gay people aren’t different colours. You’re not a red gay man or a blue gay man.”

“Oh. But you can be a bear one or a…” 

“Don’t,” Javert warns,

“I don’t know the other animals.”

“Do you know anything about being gay?” Javert says. 

Valjean rubs charmingly at the back of his neck in that helpless affectation that charmed so many in M-Sur-M but never Javert,

“Not really.”

“You’re so… old,” Javert says. 

“Thanks,” Valjean grumbles, dropping his eyes,

“I mean, you should have been gay long enough to know this. It isn’t new.”

“Yes, well, when I grew up we weren’t exactly going around telling people-”

Javert interrupts him with a scoff,

“You’re kidding me. You’re telling me no young twink ever threw himself at you?”

Valjean stares blankly at him. Javert rolls his eyes,

“A twink: a fit, pretty young man with a boyish appearance.”

“Oh,” Jean says, “no not really.”

“Liar,” Javert says, “they were all over you in M-Sur-M.”

Valjean scowls, 

“No, they weren’t.”

“They were!”

“They weren’t.”

“They definitely wanted it,” Javert says,

“Well, I never noticed,” Valjean grumbles defensively folding his big tree-trunk thick arms over his ridiculously bulging chest in a way that only emphasises both.

“You must go to the gym,” Javert says,

“Yes.”

“And they’re all over you there.”

“No.”

“No young men ever ask to work out with you?”

“Well… yes.”

“And get your number.”

“To ask work-out tips.”

Javert stares at him for a moment and then throws his head back in a bark of a laugh,

“You’re kidding me!”

Jean scowls, heavy, noble brows drawing down over his perpetually twinkling chocolate eyes,

“I’m not,” he grumbles,

“They want you,” Javert says, “sexually.”

Valjean shakes his head stubbornly,

“I’m far too old.”

“They don’t care. Look at you. I bet men have been approaching you all day and you’ve been unknowingly rebuffing them. I bet you’ve broken hundreds of hearts.”

Valjean blushes and then pales,

“Oh,” he says, arms falling to his sides, “I hope I haven’t upset anyone.”

“You won’t have,” Javert chuckles, “or at least they’ll get over it: there are plenty of old men here who want to get their claws into a younger man. One of them will cheer them up.”

Jean rubs at his neck again,

“I’m so embarrassed,” he says, “Do you think my daughter noticed?”

“Definitely. That’s why she sent you over to me. Maybe she thought you looking at me means your type is tall, dark and ugly.”

“You’re not ugly,” Valjean says quietly,

“More proof you’re a liar.”

“I’m not lying,” Jean says, frowning again,

“You’re infuriating,” Javert says, smirking with annoyed amusement,

“You’re masculine,” Valjean says, “ruggedly masculine.”

Javert scoffs.

“Like… Tom Waits,” Valjean adds, “or Ron Perlman.”

“Two famously ugly men.”

“You haven’t told me the animals,” Valjean says, “you’re not ugly but you won’t listen to me.”

“Otter,” Javert says, “cub,” he scratches the back of his neck, “I don’t really know if there are any for twinks.”

“Oh,” Jean says, “which are you?”

Javert laughs again and says with an honesty he immediately regrets,

“Chaser.”

He flushes a deep red,

“You meant animal,” he rumbles,

“Yes, what’s a-”

“I would consider myself a dog or a wolf. Or a tiger.”

“Oh.”

They stare at each other.

“Um,” Jean says. 

“Your daughter is probably waiting for you,” Javert says. Jean flushes,

“Yes,” he says. 

“Well, I’m sure you’ll have better luck now you know they’re throwing themselves at you,” Javert says, mouth twisting into an unfriendly smile,

“No,” Valjean says, “I think I’m too old for all of that. I think that’s a young man's game and I... I must admit I never learned to play it.”

“You’re kidding,” Javert says. 

Jean again looks thoroughly embarrassed, 

“You’re serious,” Javert says, “Never? Not even in prison?”

Jean scowls, hands flitting to form fists and then quickly unclenching,

“I wouldn’t.”

“I meant consensually,”

“It couldn’t be in there.”

“I disagree but regardless, you’re definitely not too old. Especially not looking like you do.”

“I don’t know what you mean by that,” Jean scowls, “I feel like you’re mocking me.”

“Mocking you!” Javert splutters, “you may be sincere in your modesty but you’re not blind!”

Valjean just pouts at him,

“You’re gorgeous,” Javert says, folding his arms over his chest. He’s at least a little amused at how wide Valjean’s eyes go, all whites, and how red his face colours.

“No,” he says quietly,

“Yes,” Javert says, “it’s infuriating. It made my job outing you as a crook so much harder, everyone being head-over-heels for you.”

Jean flushes,

“I don’t believe you,” he grumbles, “you’re not a good judge. You think you’re ugly.”

“I am.”

“You’re ruggedly masculine.”

Javert scoffs,

“Alright then,” Javert says, “seeing as we’re lamenting our unfortunate homosexuality, let me put it this way. My inclination and appearance do not align favourably with the kind of men, and interactions with men, I would like to have. They would be better served if I were a pretty little twink. Does that clarify for you?”

“Not at all,” Jean says sincerely. Javert wants to rip his bangs out,

“Oooh, you are infuriating!” 

He must be feeling masochistic because he leans in and whispers to Jean Valjean exactly what he means. Jean splutters in his ear and when he draws back he’s satisfied to see the man absolutely scandalised.

“Well,” Jean says after a moment, “I-I suppose, well I suppose I can empathise somewhat. You say how many twinks have chased me over the years well… I am almost six-foot-two and I have only ever been attracted to the idea of dating a taller and more masculine man than me.”

Javert throws his head back in a laugh again,

“More masculine than you!” he barks, “yes, I see your problem.”

He licks his lips and he grins his toothy wolf-grin down at Valjean, genuinely amused. Jean looks up at him adorably helpless. Javert puffs out of his nose.   

 

A thought occurs to him and he is immediately horrified by it and immediately struck dumb by it. His heart must stop beating because it hurts. He’s going to be forty-six this year; on one hand that should mean he has grown wise, on the other hand, it means he’s looking towards his mid-life crisis. 

 

He wraps his big hand around Jean’s meaty bicep and leans into his ear to whisper,

“Perhaps we can help each other,”

When he draws back he regrets it. This kind of behaviour on the clock could get him fired. Jean is beet red. Javert swallows heavily,

“Are you attracted to me?” he asks, nervously, hopeful if only to avoid getting fired,

“How could you tell,” Jean whispers, “have I embarrassed myself?”

Javert blinks at him,

“You’re attracted to me?”

Jean’s blush deepens,

“Do you think… I’m really not normally this forward,” he says, “I’m not… I don’t want you to lose any respect you might have for me. Although, I know you don’t respect me very much, or I hope you’ve gotten past your antagonism-”

Javert is still blinking,

“Are you attracted to me?” he says. 

Jean stares at him,

“I think you’re ruggedly handsome,” he says shyly, digging the pavement with the toe of his boot.

“Oh,” Javert says. He adjusts his belt, puffs his breath and grunts in his chest. He purses his lips and then brushes his bangs out of his eyes,

“Well,” he says, “I suppose some men do like a man who is tall, and you know what they say about men with big feet.”

“What?” Jean says. Javert blushes,

“It was a stupid joke.”

“Oh,” Jean says, “You… said you thought I was handsome… were you joking?”

“Not at all,” Javert growls. 

He has to rein himself in, he’s been single a long time and, unlike Jean, he has been single by no choice of his own. He adjusts his tie. It feels very tight. He shifts his weight onto one leg and pops his hip out a little. Flexes his arms. Not that Jean can see them. Rubs his hand over his jaw, says,

“I’ve always thought you were very handsome. A… real cutie,” he blue-steels a little. Just a little. 

Jean flushes,

“Oh,” he says, batting his eyelashes in a way that has to be intentional. Javert bites his lip. This is not how he had expected his day to go AT ALL, EVER. But he won’t complain if it’s not only the twinks going home with a beefcake old bear on their arm.

“Dad!” a voice calls and they both look over, suddenly embarrassingly aware of Valjean’s daughter. She makes a mime at him, holding her hand to her ear and mouthing a word at her father. He frowns at her,

“You want me to make a phone call?” He shouts to her. 

Javert sighs; the man really is infuriating basic,

“She’s telling you to get my number.”

Jean’s head whips round comically and he stares at Javert wide-eyed,

“You want to give me your number?”

“Yes,” Javert grouses, “how many more ways do I have to tell you?”

He takes out his work notebook and scratches his number. Adds a little rizz to it by putting an x after his name. 

“Don’t lose this,” he growls, “you don’t want me hunting you down by other means.”

Jean flushes,

“I’m so embarassed,” he murmurs,

“Don’t be,” Javert says, lying because their whole encounter has been mortifying, “I’ll buy you coffee.”

Jean blushes prettily and bats his eyes,

“Thank you,” he says,

“Thank me later,” Javert growls.

They finally part, Valjean’s daughter, or th-aughter or whatever, wants him back. She squeals and jumps on the spot when her dad approaches and pulls him into a big hug. He looks back briefly and offers Javert a little smile that has Javert shaking his fist behind his back. He nods his head coolly.

 

When Jean’s out of sight he grits his teeth and clenches his fist, grunting with satisfaction at a job well done. It’s been far too long since he’s hit on anyone and it had been a painful practice in rolling out one ‘old faithful’ after another but, as is the way with any great hunter, he’d captured his prey in the end.

 

He realises he should have asked for Jean’s number. He pales and feels a cold sweat bead on his forehead.

 

What if he doesn’t call?  

 







 















I wrote this ages ago but a recent comment prompted me to bother posting it


Rugged and handsome, that had been how Valjean had described him: rugged and handsome. Javert had googled ‘rugged and handsome fashion for men’ but had pretty much nothing that fitted the look bar the leather jacket. He grumbled and turned to his old faithful: a pair of black leather trousers, big black boots and a loose blue-grey shirt that he tucked into his trousers. It was a nice shirt and, tucked in, emphasised his broad shoulders and little waist. Even better, it had short sleeves- that meant he could flex his arms as much as he wanted. He’d thought about putting on a slutty little crop top but that felt like pushing it. A coffee date didn’t really give the necessary excuse for slutty. Maybe if things went well he could ask Valjean for some of those ‘platonic’ work-out sessions, that would give plenty of excuse for slutty. He grinned. They were meeting at a café in the centre of the city and no doubt he’d be able to sling his leather jacket cooly over the back of the chair and flex his biceps a bit. He took some time to look himself over in the mirror, tugging his trousers up to best show off his ass, adjusted his hair again, pursed his lips, and then checked his wallet, keys, phone, badge, and left.



Jean was dressed like shit. He was in some brown and green zig-zag woollen jumped that looked like it had been pulled out of an old cardboard box in a loft. This wasn’t a good sign, Javert felt, it meant he wasn’t that invested in their date. Still, it was one of those incredibly frustrating things that he looked gorgeous in literally anything. Even with a jumper that was too short in the body and had arms designed for an orangutan, he still managed to be the best-looking guy in Paris. He made it look shabby-chic. Javert met him on the corner of the street outside of the open parking lot. He pulled up and turned off the engine of his motorcycle, flipping down the foot to rest. He took off his helmet and shook his hair out in a way he hoped was attractive. 



“Hey,” he said.



Jean blushed and waved at him shyly. There was nothing sexier than proper motorcycle safety and Javert squeaked in his leathers as he slung his leg over the motorcycle and began to swagger over. When he was within a foot or so of Valjean, and wondering what his next move was, Valjean stuck out his hand to be shaken. Javert had been practicing some seductive facial expressions in the mirror at home and he tried to put on a look that was sort of a cool, but also ironic, smirk. The hand awaiting shaking had completely destroyed any thought he had of kissing Jean on the cheek but he powered through and shook Jean’s hand with a firm and masculine grip. 



“Hello,” Jean said, “I uh, hope you like coffee?”



“I don’t,” Javert said without thinking as he released Jean’s hand. They stared at each other in silence as Javert mulled over his mistake,



“Oh,” Jean said, “I don’t either.”



“Okay,” Javert replied.



“We could go home,” Jean said, shrugging,



“No, we’ve… we’ve come here and coffee is not so bad.”



“Okay,” Jean said, “I like hot chocolate.”



“Yes.”



They went in together to the coffee shop and stood in silence beside each other looking up at the menu. Jean kept glancing over nervously and Javert felt his eyes burning on his skin, scarring him in retribution for his inconsiderate statement. God, how stupid could a man be? Of course he should like coffee, everyone liked coffee, that was why people went on coffee dates.   



“What are you having?” Jean asked,



“You order first, no, wait,” Javert said, “tell me what you want,”



“I- uh- I thought I’d pay-”



“I invited you, so I’ll pay,”



“I have inconvenienced you by bringing you to somewhere you didn’t want to go-”



“No, I suggested a coffee date, it was my idea. I will pay.”



“I-”



“Jean,” Javert growled, beginning to grow annoyed by the both of them. Jean screwed up his lips and then glanced back up at the menu,



“I’ll have a hot chocolate,”



“Cake?”



“Oh, no…”



“I’ll get us cake, you uh grab a table.”


 


It was actually a relief to be alone, he could be his usual abrasive self and not have to try and keep up some kind of charming demeanor. He ordered a hot chocolate, a tea and a little platter of cakes. It was all disgustingly expensive but he really wanted this- not love, he had no interest in love that wasn’t what this was about. What he wanted was that body; that big beautiful muscular body. Just once would do. It had been so long since he’d seen anyone naked who wasn’t made of pixels. 



He carried over the tray of drinks and little treats like an acolyte bringing his sacrifice to the foot of the statue he worshipped, and placed them down on the table. It was a good choice of table, it was a very Valjean choice of table: out of the way of the window and with a clear path to an exit. He laid the platter out and set out the cups and then the little plates with cakes. Jean looked at them with wide eyes,



“Oh, this is a lot! You should let me pay-”



“No,” Javert growled as he lay his jacket over the back of his chair dramatically and sat down. He rested one forearm on the table and one over the back of his chair and flexed his arms staring into Jean’s eyes in a way that was both deeply uncomfortable and he hoped very seductive. Jean quickly dropped his eyes back to the little cakes and said,



“I’ll play mother shall I?”



“Sure,” Javert answered. 



He wanted to make some kind of joke about how usually he liked to play the woman’s role but they were in a damn cafe and Jean was cutting a little lemon torte in two with a fork and portioning it out on a plate, flushed with embarrassment. He did this with each of the cakes until they had equal portions. Javert didn’t eat cake, not really, not ever. He realised this as he looked down at the sheer quantity he’d bought. Jean poked at his cake with his fork. Maybe he didn’t eat cake either.



“Uh,” Javert said and Jean looked up nervously, “do you… come here often?”



“No,” Jean said, “not really.” 



Javert nodded, and attempted another conversation opener,



“You… haven’t dated much?”



Jean put a little piece of torte in his mouth and shook his head.    



“Why?” Javert prompted.



“Never seemed like the right time.”



Javert choked back a scoff,



“Yeah,” that made sense.



“Do uh… have you dated?” Jean asked 



“Somewhat,” Javert said, “but it’s not easy… with my work and…” my personality, he wanted to add. 



“You’re very work focussed.”



“Yes,” Javert said, “it’s not- it doesn’t make for successful relationships.”



He sighed heavily and sagged in his chair,



“I shouldn’t say that. I’m not selling myself to you.”



Jean looked up at him and then very slightly smiled, eyes brightening,



“That’s- that’s okay,” he said, “neither of us is exactly a prime candidate for a relationship.”



Javert quirked his lip and shrugged. 



“The torte is nice,” Jean said,



“It should be, it’s ridiculously overpriced.”



“I know,” Jean sighed, “that’s why I wanted to help you pay.”



“Do you like muscles?” Javert said suddenly,



“The food?”



“No, I mean,” he flexed his arms, and then flashed his bicep, “men with muscles. I’m not bulked like you but I’m lean. I’m naturally cut,”



Jean was watching him, lip still pulled up in that smile that he couldn’t quite tell if it was fond amusement or a smirk of contempt. His eyes glinted. 



“I haven’t really thought about it,” he answered. 



“You haven’t thought about the type of men you like?” Javert said, curling his lip in disbelief. Jean shrugged,



“A little. Tall, like I said-”



“Dark and ugly,”



Jean rolled his eyes,



“I like um, this is silly,” he said, flushing prettily, “you’re going to laugh at me-”



“No, go on,”



“I quite fancied Ron Perlman as the Beast from that Beauty and the Beast show.”



Javert shook his head,



“Ron Perlman. And as Hellboy?”



“Well,” Jean said, still blushing, “what kind of men do you find attractive?”



Javert flushed,



“Big, muscular,”



“I meant their faces,”



“I don’t really look at their faces,” Javert blushed deep red when he realised what he’d said, “I didn’t mean it that way.”



“I’m glad to know you won’t be analysing my wrinkles,” Jean chuckled. Javert chuffed,



“As if. I bet even your ‘wrinkles’ are gorgeous.”



Jean flushed pink-red, filling his mouth with chocolate eclair to cover his embarrassment. He got cream on the corner of his lip and Javert jumped at the opportunity to wipe it from his lip. They blushed as their eyes briefly, agonisingly met and then Javert grunted,



”Sorry,”  



“It’s alright,” Jean whispered. 



Truthfully, Javert didn’t regret for a second feeling the soft velvet of Jean’s lip on his thumb. God, he wanted this man so bad. Any man almost but this one in particular. Just one night; if he believed in God he’d pray for it. 



The only real problem was that they had nothing to say to each other. Javert wasn’t exactly a talker and neither was Valjean as far as he had seen over the years. Normally, he wouldn't have to talk that much, he’d just lean over to some guy at the bar and murmur something lurid and they’d go back to his place and do-the-do. Jean Valjean was, frustratingly, not that kind of guy. 



What did men do on dates? What did they say to each other? What made a ‘conversation’?



“Do you have any hobbies?” Javert said, lamely, 



“Not really,” Jean said, sipping his hot chocolate, “no, actually, I do: I garden.”



“That’s… interesting,” gardening was interesting wasn’t it?



Jean chuckled weakly,



“Yes, well I didn’t say it was exciting.”



“I didn’t mean it that way,” Javert grumbled, “I don’t know very much about gardening.”



“What do you do?”



“Work. Read a little,”



“I love to read!”



“I hate it.”



“Oh,” Jean said. Their eyes met and they looked at each other before Jean began to giggle. Javert slapped his hand over his eyes in defeat. 



“This is ridiculous,” Jean said, “we have nothing in common.”



“We do,” Javert said, sighing as he forced himself to lay his hand on the table and face his opponent.



“What’s that?”



“We’re both hoping to end this date with a kiss.” 



Jean blushed. 



Javert felt very slick for a moment before he managed to ruin it by adding, 



“aren’t we?”



Jean shrugged coyly.



“I’m not very good at conversation,” Javert groused. Jean smiled,



“Me too.”



“I suppose we’d be good company for each other then.”



“Yes,”



“There’s…” Was he really going to say this? “There’s plenty we could do without talking,” Javert said.



“That’s what I like about gardening,” Jean said, “you can just be quiet.”



Was he being purposefully obtuse? Javert stared at him, trying to read his expression. He had spent years teaching himself to read facial expressions but Jean remained completely inscrutable to him. He forced himself to focus on eating some cakes before he began to spiral into second guessing everything. He'd danced on the edge of disaster too many times already with this 'date'.



After a while they couldn’t drag the date out any longer. Jean insisted on bringing their tray back to the front to save the barristers the work, and they stepped out into the cool air together and wandered in silence towards the car park. They stopped outside the barrier and Javert looked at anything but Jean, very certain that this had been the worst experience of his life.



“I had a really nice time,” Jean said. Javert choked,



“What? You did? Why?”



Jean smiled coyly again and shrugged. They stood front to front, Jean looking at Javert’s feet and Javert trying to read his face desperately. He felt sick. After a second he leant down, wrapped his hand around Jean’s thick bicep, squeezed, and kissed him on the cheek. Jean had turned a deep pink when Javert pulled away,



“Was that okay?” he croaked. Jean nodded. Javert grinned and then quickly hid it. 



“Okay,” he said, “you look… hot.”



“Thank you,” Jean said, “I like your leather.”



“You like a man in leather?”



Jean’s blush darkened,



“It’s very safe.”



“Yeah,”Javert grunted. He wanted to beat his chest neanderthal style, wanted to grunt ‘Me kiss you! Me kiss you good!’ wanted to throw this muscle beast of a man over his shoulder and carry him back to his flat. He couldn’t bring himself to say, “Do you want to come back to my place?” there was something so horribly crude about it, something that contrasted so grotesquely with how agonisingly sweet Jean was. He almost felt sick with it. Maybe it was all the cake.



“Do you want to go out together again some time?” he said instead,



“Okay,” Jean said, “maybe we could… walk in the park? I like to walk in the park and you don’t have to speak to each other. There’s less pressure.”



“Yes,” Javert said, “that sounds like a good idea. Maybe I could bring my car this time?” and we could make out in the back seat, went unspoken. 



“Okay,” Jean said again.



“Can I kiss you again?” Javert grunted. Jean’s cheeks couldn’t get much redder and when Javert’s lips landed there they were red hot. 



He almost couldn’t bring himself to climb back on his motorcycle. In truth he was worried he’d crash. He pulled his helmet on, turned and gave Jean a very cool little wave. Jean waved shyly and smiled in a way that was disgustingly cute for a man his age.  



Javert didn’t realise he was home until he was home. His head felt light and his stomach was flipping over. He thought he might throw up. What was wrong with him? Just cake? He’d never been on a second date before. What happened on a second date? He immediately began to panic, sat down at his desk and got to work. It was always best to have a plan in mind. He took his pen, opened his notebook and titled his list:



Things to Talk About



              1.


 


He froze. 


 


What was there to talk about?



He’d done hobbies. No one wanted to talk about work. They’d touched on dating history. So… what else was there?



He dropped his head into his hands and groaned. How was he ever going to get into this man’s pants? 


 