Title: The Stairwell
Work ID: 43758594
Author: Javerts_high_heeled_boots
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: WIP, Part of a Full Fic, Autistic Javert (Les Misérables), Romani Javert, Trans Javert, Jean Valjean is a Sweetheart, Jean Valjean is a Dork, Dorks in Love, Javert Is Grantaire's Dad, Autistic Joy, Sassy Javert, Healing, Laughter, Idiots in Love, Height Differences, Fluff, Fluff and Humor, Dating, Falling In Love, Modern Era, Single Parents, dumb idiots in love, Absolute Dorks, Out of Character, because screw canon
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

For an October morning, it was surprisingly warm outside.

Valjean and Javert took off for a walk, a few hours after dropping each of their respective kids off at school for the day. At first the younger man had complained, saying that he should stay home and clean, but the way Jean had insisted and smiled at him that morning upon the suggestion made refusal impossible. The two met a bit after 11:30, and made their way to the park hand in hand, talking about whatever came to mind.

Their relationship has blossomed into something that, while neither had chosen to label, was definitely beyond and average, platonic friendship. Every time he saw Javert, Valjean’s heart would jump in his chest, and his cheeks would turn an awkward shade of pink. Javert, in turn, had grown more comfortable in expressing himself around Jean. He allowed himself to stim in front of him, wether it be flapping his hands happily or swaying when he was uncomfortable. Valjean picked up on these habits, and quickly learned what each meant. This only made Javert more enamored with him.

Around 12:15, they passed by set of concrete stairs leading to a sitting area near the pond. A group of teenagers (who were certainly skipping any school they may have had) were gathered at the top of the steps. Valjean watched as on of them sat themselves on the metal rail and slid to the bottom of the structure, laughing the whole way down. Shortly after, another one of the kids followed suite, and then another.

The whole scene reminded Jean of when he was younger. He and his sisters had attempted to slide down a ladder in the barn, and after that resulted in a very painful scrapped knee, Jeanne decided to take her younger siblings inside and set them on the smooth wood banister. While they were certainly still in danger of falling off, it was a safer alternative, and Jean could still remember reaching the bottom of the railing before falling into one of his big sister’s arms.

He was snapped out of his memories when he felt a soft tug at his sleeve. Javert had stopped talking and was now staring up at him with wide eyes.

“I want to do that.”

Valjean looked down at his companion, who was pointing towards the same set of stairs that the group of kids had just been on.

“What’s that?”

“I want to slide down the railing, Jean.”

Valjean blinked, surprised at Javert’s seemingly random desire.

“Really?”

“Yes? Is that…did I do something wrong?”

“No,” interrupted Valjean, not wishing for his friend to become uncomfortable or believe he was acting ‘odd’. “No, not at all! You just…I don’t know, you don’t really seem like the type of person who’d want to do that kind of thing.”

Javert twisted his mouth, eyebrows furrowed into what he must have thought was an intimidating stare but, in reality, gave him the appearance of a ticked off kitten. Valjean tried as hard as could to fight back a smirk.

“Well,” started to Inspector, crossing his arms in front of his chest, “maybe I want to try something new.”

“…Who are you? What have you done to the Javert I know?”

“Jean!”

“I’m kidding, I’m kidding…well, come on then!”

Valjean began to make his way towards the railing, only realizing that his partner was not besides him once he was nearly halfway there. Javert hadn’t moved at all- he just stood in the same place with the same expression and posture. Jean blinked.

“I thought you said you wanted to go down the rail?”

Javert mumbled something, and Jean made his way back so he could hear him properly, cocking his head to the side slightly.

“Not here,” repeated the younger man with more volume, rocking back and forth on the balls of his feet. “I don’t want people watching me.”

“Ah…well, I’m sure there’s somewhere else? Would you like to keep waking till we find one?”

Javert shrugged, but pressed his shoulder to Jean’s- one of his non-verbal ways of saying ‘alright’. Valjean smiled, and the two headed from the park into town.

Valjean kept an eye out for any buildings he thought would happen to have an empty stairwell that the two could slide down. After about ten minutes of walking, the public library came to mind. Perfect! It was only a few blocks away!

“Hey,” he started, smiling down at Javert, who was still silent and snuggled into his coat, “the library! They’ve got a bunch of stairwells; I’m sure one is empty! Do you want to check it out?”

Javert nodded, and continued to follow Jean.


~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


“All clear!”

Valjean extended his hand for Javert, leading him into the empty stairwell. The Inspector looked around warily, still nervous someone would happen to see him. Valjean noticed this, and rubbed a hand soothingly along his back.

“It’s fine, I made sure no ones here.”

“Alright.”

Without another word, the men made their way up the winding stairs, stopping on the third landing. Once there, Javert told Jean to remain at the bottom of the rail to catch him upon coming down.

Valjean watched as Javert shrugged off his coat, hanging it over a separate part of the staircase. He took a deep breath and positioned himself on the rail, hands holding him stable. After a few seconds of silent contemplation, he pushed off the top step, sliding all the way down.

Valjean caught him in his arms before his feet could hit the ground, hoisting him up into an always embrace. He looked at Javert, who was grinning widely. His heart leaped.

“You ok?”

“I wanna do it again,” giggled Javert, wiggling out of Valjean’s arms and dashing to the top of the stairs. He sat himself against the smooth wood banister and pushed off once again, this time with more momentum.

Once again, Valjean caught the laughing man in his arms, his own grin growing. Before he could speak, Javert once again took off, racing to sit on the rail once again.

This time, however, he slid down without using his hands to brace himself. Valjean panicked upon noticing this, moving into his catcher position as quickly as he could. A cackling Javert came crashing into his arms, twisting so that they were face to face.

“Your insane, Em,” gasped Valjean, letting go of the nervous breath he had taken. Javert continued to squirm around, almost as if he were trying to climb Jean. In response, Valjean attempted to fix his grip, a hand accidentally snaking up Javert’s t-shirt, fingers brushing along his binder.

“Put me down,” laughed the smaller man, still twisting. “I wanna do it again!”

“Again?! Emile, you almost knocked me over!”

“I’ll be careful, I promise! Just one more time, then we can go!”

Valjean didn’t get a chance to answer before Javert managed to escape his hold, running up the stairs to the top of the railing.

“Hands,” exclaimed Valjean, “don’t forget to use your hands!”

Javert rolled his eyes, waving his hands in front of himself dramatically before bracing them on the railing. For the last time, he gave a sharp kick to the top stair and slid all the way down. Valjean caught him around the waist with a huff, nearly twirling around in the process. Javert squawked happily, head thrown back with a large, tiger grin. Jean felt a blush creep up his face as he set the man down, watching him flap his hands wildly.

“All good?”

The Inspector grunted with a nod, rocking back and forth again. Valjean smirked, carting a hand through his own hair in relief.

“Are you ready to go?”

“Mhm.”

Javert was still bouncing gleefully.

“Alright, you dork,” teased Jean, getting a playfully nudge in return, “let’s go.”