Title: The police department do not want to fund Javert's Quest any longer
Work ID: 41487162
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, stupid meme joke turned into a fic, will go up in rating I imagine, If I ever finish it haha, man doesn't know what gay is, Jean Valjean is an SCP, Javert thinks he's a werewolf, Autistic Javert, mentions of child abuse, mentions of self harm, Mentions of Mental Illness, multiple neurodivergent characters, D/s, two dudes who are not fine
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 12/?

If there were any truth in the universe it was within the power of Inspector Javert to find it. It was as simple as that. A statement of fact. He had the eyes of a tiger and the nose of a wolf. He had a savage hunger, a salivating, monstrous desire in him beyond all else that had been tamed, through much suffering and self-sacrifice, to bend only towards the upholding of law and law’s ineffable ability to define truth and reality. He had turned this fire, this chained animal passion, on the one man to ever defy him and – by proxy- to have defied the law- in the most heinous and hideous way imaginable. This devil had not only broken and entered to steal bread, but in an act of horrendous defiance, had refused to take responsibility for his act: attempting to escape Toulon prison multiple times. He had, by the devil’s intervention, succeeded and, like the thief he was, fled into the night. It had come down to Javert to pursue him. After all, someone had to. A man so dangerous could not be allowed to freely roam the streets, and so Javert had committed himself wholeheartedly, as only a man who lived and breathed justice could, to the return of this devil to his rightful place in prison.

When dealing with these devils it came to pass that even angels must behave as sinners and so, even Javert, with his immovable wooden heart and his infallible love of honesty, came to produce both a Tinder and Grindr account. Of course, as a proud virgin, he had not known what either of these things were but sacrifices had to be made. He had given his body to the law, as did a nun to God, and if the law required him to briefly prostitute it to the internet then it was a guilt he would be willing to make penance for.

The first step was a psychological profile-building exercise. His account must appeal above all else to Valjean’s twisted psyche. That meant several things: That Javert must lie about the passions in his heart; that he must commit those falsehoods to phone screen; and that he must withhold any loathing he felt for those who responded positively to him.

His account went as such

"Don't talk to me until after I've eaten my bread. ACAB. I love to steal."

It was of course agony and he gnashed his teeth and burned red with loathing at every word but wrote them all the same and then posed shirtless in front of a mirror and took a neck-down photograph. In honour of the fearsome stalking beast, he signed his account, “Tiger.” Vague enough that Valjean wouldn’t recognise him (after all if you were to see Javert your automatic assumption would be that if he were to be any animal it would be a wolf-dog) but predatory and cool enough to attract dangerous men.Then of course came the true hardship. Scrolling endlessly through and liking older muscular men’s accounts. Only those without face photos of course. And then following up those likes with a brief message: “Chest pics?”

Thankfully most of these musclebound imbeciles were egotistical enough to send him what was requested and, when he had carefully scoured these photos for signs of prison tattoos or tattoo removal, he then unliked the accounts. It was a fruitless and spiritually unrewarding activity but he could do it during breakfast, lunch, in the car (while parked,) on the toilet, and in bed of an evening and so he remained heroically stoic. (And if Javert ever wept at the indignity of his self-sacrifice he never let anyone see it.)Then came the fateful day on which all of his shirtless photographs from different angles and tireless messaging of older men for pictures of their exposed pectorals came to fruition. A gentleman, no doubt wishing to disguise his ill intent, messaged him:“Please do not let yourself be corrupted by the low state you find your life in. There are those with kindness in their hearts still who would rather give to you than allow your soul to be stained by the sin of theft.”Something in Javert twitched.The stranger continued:“Let me know your address and give me a list of shopping you require and I will have it delivered to you.”It twitched again. Javert flicked onto the account with a snarl: Faithful Hermit, 48. 50 miles away.A weak sweat began to gather on Javert’s brow and upper lip and he wiped it away with a trembling hand. With a determined finger he typed,“Chest pics?”He chewed his nails feverishly, eyes eating ravenously at the little dots that traced along the bottom of the screen.Faithful Hermit is typing…

Typing! Typing! It was not false words that Javert desired but photos of Valjean’s tremendously meaty and bulging chest!

“I don’t know if I feel comfortable sending you a photo of my chest. I am rather shy.”Javert leapt from his chair with a roar, barely holding onto his phone. How dare he! Attempting to foil Javert at every turn! He would have no more. He calmed himself and sat,“I will send you first. Don’t be shy-” Javert paused, what would a lascivious and vile creature say to tempt another lascivious and vile creature? He wracked his brain. Dragged it over hot coals. It had to be something tactless and without class.“- I bet you are really handsome.” He grinned wolfishly at his success and rose again to rake through his wardrobe to find the best fitting trousers he owned. Not best fitting to the situation but best fitted to his muscular legs and small waist (he did after all do a lot of walking and cycling.) Then he pulled them high up his waist, turned on the angled lamp and set up the mirror opposite the bed, angled so that his face wouldn’t show. He climbed onto the bed, sitting on his knees and attempted to take a photo that best showed his thighs but grew irritated by the hairless of expanse of his back on show (a little spotty and very pale) and so he stood instead, placing one knee of the bed and a hand on his hip to flex his arms a little. Better. He had to admit, in a moment of little modesty, that he did have a shapely rear and nice broad shoulders. He scrolled through the photos until he found the best one and sent it, hunching back into his seat, head jutting eagerly to his phone screen. He waited, tongue flicking out to lick his lips in eager expectation.

Faithful Hermit is typing…Faithful Hermit is typing….

“You are a very handsome young man.”Javert cursed them cursed his impatience as the words appeared again.

Faithful Hermit is typing…

“If I agree to send you a photograph of my chest, will you make me a promise?”Yes! Anything! Javert thought, he had sold his soul this far why no further? He was committed to the chase!“If I send you a photograph of my bare chest, I only ask that you repent for your sin of theft and turn your mind away from such activities.”“Sure,” Javert replied, “And you are right: I am young and fit and know what it is I am looking for. Send me the photo.”He shoved his newly chewed nails back into his mouth trembling in expectation, skin tingling, sweat once more prickling his upper lip. There was another long pause and Javert had to remind his racing heart that he indeed had taken several minutes to prepare his photograph and that the wait did not guarantee failure. He leapt up with a fearsome snarl of success when the picture flicked onto the screen then clicked and zoomed in rapidly, tongue caught between his teeth. It was indeed a magnificent chest, flexing, and mounted with curly white hair. Flushed pink and dewed with sweat… He wiped the sweat from his brow with the back of his hand and swallowed. And there, on the upper right and side- he was sure of it!- the bottom half of a row of numbers! He leapt again, springing into the air like a gazelle, and bared his teeth to the world in manic delight.“Do you have a tattoo?” He typed, heart in his mouth.There was a pause.

Faithful Hermit is typing…Faithful Hermit is typing…

Javert twitched and trembled.

Faithful Hermit is typing…

“Forgive me for taking so long to reply, I was unsure how to respond and rewrote my reply several times. I fear I do, but only as a reminder of my less respectable past.”Now Javert howled like a wolf, like the beast he was. He leapt upon the bed and leapt down from it to bang his hands upon the wardrobe and snarl and jeer at the face in the mirror, his dark hooded eyes twinkly with ferocious delight. He had his quarry! At last, he had his prey! And as he opened up the photo again, he swore he could almost smell the sweat that glistened on the criminal’s mountainous chest.“Meet me.” He typed“Can we not speak first? Get to know each other?”Javert scoffed,“You message younger men with shirtless photographs as their icons to talk?”There was a pause and a thrill of fear passed through Javert that he may have overplayed his hand.“You are right,” Faithful Hermit (haha!) replied, “It is disingenuous of me to pretend that it was not your body that first attracted me to your profile. However, I am a single father with few friends and I value conversation highly. I would like to get to know the mind that attends this handsome body.”Javert trembled again and then dropped himself into his chair with a perturbed grunt.“What do you want to know?”“What do you do?”“I work for the government.”“And what do you do for fun?”“I pursue men.”There was another pause and then another horrendously judgemental message appeared on Javert’s phone from that hideous phony ‘Faithful Hermit’.“I understand that you are a young man with desires but surely you must have some identity beyond the usages of your body?”Javert bared his teeth again, this time in frustration, and flicked his long fringe from his eyes,“Yes, I do. But my desires tonight are not for the intellectual. I wish to meet you. Promptly.” He paused. Perhaps a little honesty would put the practiced liar off-kilter, “I am a man with the heart of an animal. Tonight, I desire only to hunt.”There was another pause.“You remind me very much of someone.”

Faithful Hermit is typing…

“I must admit that you have an enigmatic charisma.”‘Don’t bullshit me,' Javert thought, rolling his eyes. And who else could Valjean be alluding to? Another criminal he had dallied with in prison no doubt… but then surely Javert would have known. He had kept his eyes on Valjean in prison with only the level of attentiveness such a devious criminal required and he had never witnessed any salacious activity. He would have remembered. Still, it was his duty to keep these thoughts to himself if he were to deceive the most conniving and experienced liar himself.“Meet me.” He typed, moving on to chew his thumbnail. He had tried painting them with that foul-tasting nail varnish but he had only ended up using chewing them as a sort of self-punishment.“Where?”“Your place,” Javert replied. The street lamps outside of his window had blinked into life and a soft glow of yellow light took the strain from the single desk lamp that had been lighting his bedroom.“I am afraid I am not comfortable doing so,”Javert cursed out loud, then soothed himself with a hiss and waited for the next message.“There is a café open late on the corner of Rue Saint-Fulbert, will you meet me there?”He didn’t know it but he could Google it. No task was too great in the pursuit of his prey.“Yes.”“How will I recognise you?”A wicked toothy smile spread across Javert’s face in slow abandon,“You will recognise me.”

 

They arranged the time to meet and Javert lay down in bed that night to vibrate and tremble with anticipation but not to sleep. Sleep alluded him. Instead, he rose from bed, flicked on all of the lights and picked out his outfit. There were two criteria for the next night's hunting outfit: that it be practical for running in and, if necessary, hand-to-hand combat; and that it be dramatic. Drama was not a necessity, not really, but it was the sweet sauce on the pursuit pudding. Wearing his most fitted trousers was not a possibility, but he had a second pair that he had altered to fit similarly made of stretchy black denim material. Jeans weren’t exactly the noblest of clothes but they were extremely practical and of French invention and that counted for something. His shirt was really a non-issue, anything loose enough to move in and to wriggle out of if he got caught would work and he looked through countless button-ups before settling on a more casual t-shirt he often slept in: three wolves howling at the moon. The coat had to be the long black leather duster that he had sewn weights into (it gave the hem more of a swish and drag.) Altogether, he felt that (in a completely professional manner) he looked very cool. As cool as a man about to finally reach the moment of absolute victory should look. He showered, combed his hair, and then sat staring out of the window watching the day pass in anticipation. There was nothing more to do. His current mission, as it stood was technically outside of police bounds as they had most recently denied him further funding or support in his pursuit of Jean Valjean. He was now considered ‘low threat’ as it had been so long since he had caused any considerable problem. The police, Javert thought with a sneer, now considered massive town-wide fraud ‘low threat’. Javert did not. Yes, no one had died, and yes, the townsfolk had overall been happy and flourishing but that was besides the point. Valjean had broken the law. Again. It was in his nature, Javert thought, (watching the cars roll down the street outside and the windows rattle as the trains passed) he was a born criminal. Those kinds of people didn’t change. No doubt he would still be a thug, broader than a chimney and with hands like bowling balls. Thick sinewy muscles, broad shoulders, his strong square chin, and worst of all… those eyes. The eyes of a devil. Those eyes sold any lie to any man.

When the sun began to fall beneath the horizon, Javert dressed, tucked his gun into the holster at his back and pulled on his long coat. He almost ran down the stairs and hurried, having memorised the route, through the streets. It seemed every sense woke with the setting of the sun and he breathed in the heavy smog of the air and sucked in the yellow light with bloated pupils. It sent tremors through his skin and made his hair stand on end. He came to the café quickly and easily. And paused on the corner of the opposite street in a moment of darkness to watch the figures through the window. It was a small place, unimpressive, subtle and quiet and unlikely to draw attention to itself or its occupants. Valjean had made a good choice. Javert’s choices were simply better. Predictably Valjean had not chosen a seat near the window and Javert stalked across the road, a long black scarf pulled around his face.  

The door of the café opened with a gentle tinkle and he looked around the room with rapt attention. There, right at the back seated beside the toilet door was a broad thick figure, face partially concealed in shadow. Javert did not need to see his face, he never recognised him by his face. He knew those shoulders, that monumental chest straining against his shirt, and those broad, weathered hands. He strode across the room until the man- Jean Valjean with his eyes twinkling and filled with some emotion Javert could not read- looked up at him. Javert grinned wolfishly beneath his scarf and then swept it away with a dash of his hand and a flare of his coat,

“You know my face! Javert-”

Valjean had leapt from his seat and darted into the toilet. Javert cursed and darted after, bursting into the bathroom. Thankfully, Valjean was simply too thick to squeeze out of the bathroom window and Javert caught hold of his ankle pulling at his leg to wrench him back in. The man was heavy, dense, and with gravity as his friend, Valjean fell from the window. Unfortunately, in doing so he kicked Javert fully in the chest and he staggered back banging against the toilet stall door, falling through it and onto the toilet. Valjean scrambled to his feet and out of the toilet into the cafe. Javert grunted and grabbed at the walls and toilet roll holder, pulling himself up and out of the stall and then into the café. The staff and customers were staring in a shocked silence.

“Which way did he go?” Javert bellowed and one man pointed down the street. Javert burst out of the café, staggering on the streets as they grew slippery with a steady evening drizzle. He turned right and began to run down the street, ears perked for the clatter of feet ahead. He was indeed on their track and his heart pounded in his chest and his pulse in his ears as he ran. He could feel the heat rising to his cheeks. He could picture in his mind Valjean running ahead, powerful legs pumping. He turned the corner of an ally and found the hulking monster halfway up an alley wall.

“Stop!” he boomed, pausing in the glare of a streetlight, “Submit yourself to the will of the law!”

Valjean seemed to pause for a moment and then he pulled himself up over the top of the wall. Javert cursed and ran to the end of the alley looking for handholds on the wall as it grew slowly wetter in the evening dew. He stomped his feet, gnashed his teeth, paced back and forth, back and forth, and even tried to climb the wall to no avail. The sound of Valjean’s feet had slowly dissipated and he bellowed and roared his rage at the moon and then swept his long fringe from his eyes and booted up his phone to delete the apps. His trick would not work twice and no doubt Valjean was retreating to his rat-hole to gather up what meagre possessions he owned and go to ground again.

“I will find you!” he snarled at the stars, “I will find him!”

 

It took two years but he did by chance find Valjean.

 

He was in a biker bar, undercover on another case, when a scuffle broke out. A man, some thug, assorting some woman- no doubt a whore. She was dressed like one. He watched with disinterested irritation as a crowd gathered around the yelling pair when another figure broke up the fight. He only glimpsed him for a second and for a second he doubted himself but- he knew that chest. Those tree-thick arms. The electric lights caught the delicate curls of his silver hair and Javert grew stiff in his chair- body taught in anticipation, waiting to see his face. But the crowd did not part and the man- Valjean- was hurrying the woman towards the door. Javert tried to make himself get up and move but something had paralysed him and he twisted in his chair, eyes wide and mouth gasping in air to watch the man’s broad back exit the door. Whatever had kept him in his seat passed in an instant and he leapt up running to the door and bursting out into the chill of the night. He stood, breathing in heavy breaths, sniffing the air, panting and almost slathering with excitement, peering down the street from side to side but his prey had disappeared. Still- still! He knew! Somewhere, somewhere in these streets or nearby these streets Valjean resided. They had taken no car, he would have seen it driving away or heard it, so they must live somewhere they could reach on foot. His hands trembled at his side. He should, he knew, go back inside and watch his suspect but he struggled to care if one thug shot another thug. All the better there was one less in the world, and besides fingerprints could be pulled, CCTV. They didn’t really need his eyes, and the scent was so fresh and new.

He let his gut tell him which way to go and turned left pacing down the street, eyes on the cobbles in search of boot prints. He found none and swore, doubled back and searched to the right looking for boot marks. Nothing. The real issue was not whether or not his gut was fallible or infallible but simply that he did not know this part of the city. How could he expect his gut to steer him right in unfamiliar quarters? No, his first step would have to be look at a map and memorise the local area. Then he would go on google maps and scope out nearby locations with less salubrious reputations, no doubt criminals would harbour a criminal. He would search each one until he caught the scent again. There came two loud bangs from the bar and Javert twisted on the spot to watch the gunman burst from the door, then ran and tackled him to the ground. The victim might be dead (he had not checked) but the suspect was in custody, and all that- combined with the fresh new lead on Valjean- had made for quite the successful night.

He spent his next week and a half on google maps. Having memorised the map of the local area he spent his evening hunched over his laptop scrolling through the names of local bars, and then local clubs and finally, more abstract institutions: sex shops, and even a BDSM school. What that was he had no idea, but the website looked foul and was brimming with pictures of women in miniscule amounts of clothing and so he assumed it was something vile. How it could constitute a school he could not guess, and if any school board were made aware of it, he was sure they would shut it down.

For another three weeks, he trawled the clubs and bars, asking the more trustworthy-looking security workers and bar owners if they had seen a man fitting Valjean’s description. Only a few had given reliable descriptions of a similar-looking man. Still, a few was better than too many. It meant he could narrow down his search area. He put up his map on the wall of his bedroom and drew on his general area of investigation then marked up all of the locations he had not investigated. Among them was the BDSM school. For some foolish reason, he decided to forego the bars for now and investigate that mystery location instead. He stuck a pin in it.

“Yes,” he whispered to nothing and no one. He had a good feeling.

Warnings: Javert gets bullied because he's a fucking loser, sexism, mild sexual activity with dubious consent, very vague reference to childhood trauma. If I'm missing anything sorry

Javert had fled from work like a tiger with its tail alight, changed from his uniform, and hurried, as the sun dropped low behind the clouds, to the dingy once-industrial part of the city. The building he was looking for was squat and rectangular, made of dark brown bricks, and had the appearance of once being some kind of small factory. There were a few cars parked in the small car park and Javert made a point of memorising the license plates. Then he stalked across the road, hands buried deep in his pockets, and pushed open the door. It was a strange building, with a long narrow corridor and doors leading off either side. There was a corkboard on the wall, and he paused to curl his lip at it and the timetables registered activities:

7.30 Beginners Shibari Room 3

8.40 Advanced Shibari Room 3

9.50 Beginners Introduction to Sadomasochism Room 4

11.00 Establishing a Dom/Sub relationship Room 4

And most horrifying:

12.15 Cock and Ball torture introduction Room 4

That one made his eyes water. He grimaced and shook his head, then turned his head to look down the corridor: the room to his right was labeled 1 and the room to his left was labeled 2. It was true that he could hear voices muffled from a door a little further down the corridor. He stalked to the door and peered, just hiding around the corner, through the narrow window. The room was occupied by six women. One at the front is some kind of leather lingerie holding a red rope. She seemed to be about forty-five years old, had brown hair pulled in an extremely high topknot, and was talking very plainly and loudly in a typical teacherly fashion. The other women were dressed in paradoxically the most benign outfits Javert had ever seen. They looked as though they were going to the shops to buy a week’s groceries. He found his nose and brow wrinkling with bemusement. There was a pause and the woman looked directly at him through the window, he dipped back and out of sight but she opened the door,

“Are you coming in? You’re late but you’re probably embarrassed. Don’t be afraid just because they’re women. They won’t bite. The biting class is later on in the evening.”

The women tittered and Javert found himself muscled into the room.

He moved to the back, looking at the ground, jaw tight as the woman moved back to the front and continued talking. She was in fact describing types of knots and demonstrating looping the rope through, pulling it tight and then releasing it. Javert watched in silence, unsure of how much longer the class would be and if it was better to assert himself and demand the women inform him of if they had seen Valjean, or keep himself quiet for risk of alerting Valjean of his presence.

“You’re sitting in the back looking like you’ve got a mouthful of lemons,”

It took Javert a moment to realise that the ‘teacher’ was talking to him. He grunted, raising a bushy brow and she reached an arm out to him.

“Come here,” she said, and he balked.

“Don’t be shy,” she continued, “A lot of ladies here want to know how to tie up their boyfriends. Are you here to learn for a boyfriend or a girlfriend?”

“Neither.” He replied, voice sharp.

The women had all turned towards him and he found himself clenching his fists against the overburdening feeling of being stared at.

“Oh,” she said, “You’re like that,” she put her hands on her hips and Javert felt as though she were looking at him as if he were a rude little boy, “You’re here to be tied up.”

Javert felt his face redden, “Never!” He barked, “Whatever perverse sexual appetites you are fuelling, mine is not one.”

The woman had the gall to laugh, “Do you remember, ladies, what we talked about earlier? The different types of subs? This gentleman is what you’d call a bratty sub. Or are you just a bigot hoping to spy on your girlfriend? Are you a bully?”

“I am not a bully,” Javert asserted, “I am an officer of the law!”

“Oh, so you like to wear a uniform.” Javert curled his lips up in a snarl, face a deepening red.

“You should show more respect, whore.”

Much to his surprise the ‘teacher’ actually barked with laughter.

“Come here,” she called to him waving to him with a hand, “Come on.”

And for some bizarre reason, he came, stopping only when he stood beside her, looming over her with a ferocious look.

“I’ve met a lot of men like you,” she said, “You’re more scared off yourself than you are of me. What are you so afraid will happen to you if you learn something in my class?”

“Nothing. You cannot change me. I am incorruptible.”

She raised a brow at him, “What about it, ladies, should our police officer be our first volunteer?”

“No," Javert ground out but the women were laughing and clapping,

“No,” he growled again.

To his aggravation, the ‘teacher’ only leaned towards him,

“What are you frightened of?”

“Nothing.” He growled,

“Then be our example.”

He felt his eye twitch, “I don’t have to do anything.”

“Then don’t,” she said shrugging, “But either take part in the lesson or leave because I will not tolerate you making these women uncomfortable when it has taken them a lot to be brave enough to come today. And I will point out: everyone will be being tied up and tying people up during this lesson so if you can’t handle that you ought to leave.”

Javert chewed on her words. He wanted to say: Tell me if you have seen a man matching this description. He wanted to say: I am ending this lesson, I have questions you must answer. He actually said, “Fine.”

She guided him in shucking off his long black leather coat and he folded it over the back of a chair, muscles tense and face stuck in a permanent grimace. His absurd height doomed him to kneeling for the demonstration and he grumbled and grunted his disagreements as he knelt on the rough blue carpet. The process of wrapping and knotting then began. Luckily, Javert was a man of iron will and he had taken time over the course of his life to train himself in anti-torture techniques. Slowly he let himself slip away from his body, his eyes focussing unseeing on some non-point on the wall and he stepped back from himself. He had a natural propensity for this and had done it frequently in childhood during situations he had not wanted to participate in. In fact, he had often sat for hours not feeling or engaging with anything at all, barely aware of his own existence. It was a natural talent. Then in adulthood, he had taken the time to investigate torture techniques and had educated himself in military torture-resistance tactics. It was true that he hadn’t yet used it in his line of work but he was a man who believed that it was best to be prepared for any situation. It helped him now and he found himself in the wonderful muffled world of nothingness, existing only in a muted unclear voice and the slightly soft white of the opposite wall. That was until the woman passed her hand between his legs,

“What are you doing!” He barked, snapping to look at her with a wild tossing of shaggy hair.

She scoffed at him again, “Don’t worry, I won’t make it tight and I’m not trying to feel anything. If you want me to stop- just say so.”

Javert grit his teeth, looking down and finally acknowledging her work: a lattice of red ropes dissecting his body (in what was a quite pleasingly symmetrical pattern).

“What are you trying to achieve?”

“Shibari,” she said, turning on her teacher voice, “Is a decorative art form. The practitioner uses colored rope, or plain rope -almost any rope will do ladies- to create patterns using a person’s body as the canvas for their art.”

“And what does that have to do with my groin?”

“Your hip joints make a useful anchor for the rope.”

Javert curled his lip but conceded that she made a good point, “Are you almost finished?”

“Yes.”

“And then you will answer my questions.”

“Sure,” she said, as though he had asked her a question.

He jerked a little in discomfort as she pulled the rope up a little too close to parts of his body he would rather keep untouched and he furrowed his brow trying to send himself forcefully back to that peaceful place. The rope pulled up into his arse crack and he felt his ears warm with what was no doubt annoyance and embarrassment. How had he ended up in this situation? On his knees, arms bound behind his back, a rope leaning on his… genitals… as though they were old friends. It was absurd. You couldn’t have written it, he thought aimlessly. Then another thought occurred to him. What if Valjean was in the building right now? His head jerked up and towards the door but there was no face in the filmy little window. Valjean could be hiding somewhere spying on him now. No doubt congratulating himself on finding Javert in such a vulnerable and compromising situation. He would be smirking and scoffing, having waited years for this. To have Javert tied up and at his mercy, vulnerable to whatever revenge he wanted to meet. It was possible this had all been a setup all along: that these women were all in cahoots to get Javert here, bound and helpless, that Valjean would enter and they would partake in his humiliation laughing and mocking him as Valjean took his revenge.

As if on cue an embarrassed titter of laughter knocked Javert from his distraction and he flushed red with anger as he glowered at them. The teacher paused and then leaned over his shoulder looking down,

“Now, now ladies,” she said, only slightly chiding, “It’s nothing to be laughed at. Lost of people find shibari exciting. There’s a reason I teach it here. You’ll appreciate it when it has the same effect on your partners.”

Javert looked down, head dropping like a criminal hearing his sentence from the judge. Indeed, his life was ending. The women were laughing at his erection. It wasn’t the first time he had ever had an erection, that was true, but it was the first time he had experienced the shame and embarrassment of one being compounded by a room full of women laughing at it. He jerked to his feet with a snarl, stumbling on his long legs like a foal learning to walk and the teacher balanced him with her arms (probably frightened that he would fall on her.)

“Whoa there!” she said, “Give me a moment and I’ll untie you.”

“Release me harlot!” he snarled, head swimming, and he staggered to the door trying to lever open the handle with his elbow.

She grabbed at him again, trying to turn him to make the knot accessible but he grunted and slammed through the door, storming down the corridor. There was no chance he would trust her, there would be a room with something in that he could use to untie himself. He stumbled from door to door, looking in through the little windows and finding them empty until he found himself stumbling into a very small kitchen. The thing he hadn’t considered was how to get the draws open to access the knives. Inconveniently, these women were very safety conscious and hadn’t left any sharp knives lying anywhere on any counters. He swore loudly and spun back to the door only to find exactly who he had not been looking for.

Valjean.

Face open and confused, huge bulk filling the doorway, a pack of kitchen rolls in his hands. Javert stared at him with the wild fierceness of a cornered animal.

“Do you… need help?” Valjean proffered.

“No!” Javert barked, face colouring from red to an almost purplish hue, “I need nothing from you!”

“Ah,” Valjean entered slowly, with the same gait and rhythm of a zoo keeper approaching a tiger with a sore tooth. He placed the pack of kitchen rolls on the narrow kitchen top and held his hands up in an open-handed show of peace.

Javert scoffed, “Now you put your hands up? You should have done that last time I caught you and you could have been happily in a prison cell by now.”

Valjean smiled weakly, insincerely Javert thinks, and continued to creep closer,

“Let me untie the main knot for you. Then I can leave you to untie the rest.”

Javert hissed at him, “If you intend to untie me you ought to stay and let me arrest you!”

Valjean raised an eyebrow.

“Would you rather that I just gave you a knife?”

“Yes.”

Valjean sighed and opened a drawer, pulling out a sharp knife. Much to both their surprise Javert turned his back on him, opening his hand for the handle to be placed into it. Valjean did so and Javert began to awkwardly twist his wrists in an attempt to angle the blade to cut the ropes but the damned woman has tied him forearm to forearm and he ended up scraping the blade over his skin, cursing, and dropping it with a clatter. Valjean sighed and picked it up, placing it handle-first into his hand again. He makes a second attempt and failed once more, the knife hitting the floor. It’s too embarrassing to go on.

“Untie me,” he grunted.

“Pardon?”

“You heard me,” he growled, “Aren’t you satisfied enough by my suffering?”

Valjean sighed again, a deep weary noise that aggravates Javert immensely, and then his big coarse hands are jerking Javert almost off his feet,

“Forgive me,” he muttered as he began bothering the knots at the center of Javert’s back. Javert can say nothing. His head is burning hot, his blood pounding in his ears. He can feel the veins on his forehead bulging under his skin. He is torn between indignity and humiliation… and then there is the third emotion. The treacherous sickening feeling that passes through him every time he is yanked left or right, or back, or moved roughly forward as Valjean fights the knot.

“I’m sorry,” Valjean says, “there is a trick to untying these, I know, but Margarete hasn’t shown me enough times for my dull mind to have memorised it.”

Javert grund his teeth at the shallow appeasements, and a bead of sweat rolled down his brow and into his bristly eyebrow.

“There,” Valjean says, and he jerks him around quickly and roughly almost tripping him from his feet as he turns them chest to chest. His big hands taking hold of a big knot of ropes that collect on Javert’s chest and Javert stares down at him, throat bobbing, as he wrenches them apart, the sinewy muscles of his forearms flexing. Javert must make a noise because there is no other reason that Valjean should look up at him with surprise. Javert keeps his lips pressed tight, so tight they pale: ghostly against his purple face. Valjean stares into his eyes for too long to be comfortable and then slowly looks down. He pauses and then steps backward colouring from ear to ear. The ropes seem to lose whatever held them aloft and they begin to pool around Javert’s feet. He drops his hands to his sides and his fingers flex like a spider’s legs feeling out its web. He can’t bring his eyes to look at Valjean’s face and he stares at the broad grey expanse of jumper that stretches over his chest. After a long eternity of torture, Javert darts past him to the door,

“I will arrest you,” he breathes, “don’t leave.”

Valjean twists on the spot, mouth open as his hunter flees into the corridor.

“Wait!” He calls, but Javert keeps running until he bursts out into the gentle sprinkling of rain in the night. It’s fresh again and real, and the crisp night air and the white curve of the moon calls his soul out of its heat. It is broken for a moment when the door opens and Valjean is real and intruding on the dream of the night. They stand in mute tension looking at each other, not entirely sure of how the other fits into this world in which they are not directly running and chasing. Valjean holds out his hand, a muddle of dark fabric in his hand,

“Take my jacket.”

“I left my coat in there,” Javert says, mouth dry.

“Do you want to wait while I go get it?”

“No.”

“Well,” Valjean says and the dew begins to settle in the moon-white curls of his hair. He holds the coat out in the cold night air and Javert shivers as if on cue. He snatches it in one hand and Valjean’s hand drops to his side.

“I will arrest you tomorrow.”

“I know.”

“Will you run?”

“You know.”

Javert curls his lip but he can’t bring himself to anything but stalk as quickly as his long legs can take him out of the yellow pools of light and back into the welcoming blackness of the night. Free of judgment. Free of eyes. Free of Valjean, standing white and quiet in the night. A reflection of the moon.

He never puts the coat on. He can’t bring his hand to unclench, knuckles so tense they’re white. He thumps up the stairs of his second-floor flat and slams the door after him. The neighbours won’t complain, they know exactly the kind of man he is and work hard to avoid him. He dashes the coat down on the bed savagely and then stalks back and forth across the room not looking at it. After a moment he returns to it with slow, penitent steps and tidies it, laying it out on the bed. It is broad, broader in shoulder than anything he wears. It’s a soft charcoal grey, denim, worn. He touches it, then pulls away if burnt. Very slowly he lifts it and sweeps it around his shoulders and over his arms. When he dares to open the wardrobe and look in the long mirror he looks a fool, standing all long limbs and awkwardness in almost darkness: the too short arms hanging up above his wrists, the short body not reaching his waist, the broad shoulders sagging. He touches the fabric, rubbing it between finger and thumb. Then he yanks it off and throws it into the back of the wardrobe, throwing himself face first onto the bed, black leather boots filthy dirty, hanging over the end of the bed.

He wakes in the late hours of the night with a throbbing heat between his legs. It's a curse, the human body: its frailties, its addictions blight even the most controlled individual. He does not drink, he does not smoke, he has never taken drugs, he even avoids processed sugar, but no matter how he fights his body will not give up this weakness. Worst of all, it usually deals with itself during the night (leaving him a mess to tidy in the morning) but tonight he is being forced to pay witness to his own disgrace. 

He throws his arm over his eyes and tries to force himself back to sleep. The grey light of early morning is peeking through the blinds and he huffs, reaches over, and checks his phone: 5.23. An ignominious time of the morning. He hates it. The phone clunks down on the bedside table. He rolls over onto his front to shield his eyes but that's a mistake because it squashes his hard cock beneath his warm stomach. He groans and then snarls and rattles the bedhead in frustration. It's Valjean's jacket disturbing him. He had brought himself into collusion by borrowing it. He should never have accepted it. No doubt Valjean walked home in the rain, water soaking his grey sweater until it clung to his skin… Javert shoved a knuckle into his mouth and bit down hard. It was worse lying on his front, he could feel every throb and twitch. He rolled back over onto his back.

How had Valjean remained so impossibly large over the years? He must be taking steroids. Javert exercised with a frightening level of regularity and he had never been able to get any larger than 'lean'. But then… Valjean had been huge in prison. Larger in fact than he was now. Monstrous, all bulging swollen muscle… veiny, ingrained with dirt. He'd been like some kind of savage animal. The animal in Javert had wanted to leap on him and rip at his throat in a primal game of dominance, but the man in Javert knew better. Knew that he was half his father and… half his mother. Prone to the same weaknesses of them both. Stubbornness, a shortness of temper, and… an attraction towards dangerous and unpredictable men. It was a source of great shame for Javert. Of great, great shame, and a deep-seated disgust and self-loathing. He hated his mother, in a way, for passing on her curse to him, but he would be stronger and would conquer it. All these years he had never given in to his desire and he would not still. He was the master of his own fate. He would not allow himself to become a used-up husk, abandoned by 'love'. He had seen that end and knew what pain it brought.

Still, desire and 'love' had plagued him all his life. They had dogged him and, in return, he had turned and dogged them instead. He was like Ged of Gont: pursuing his own shadow to vanquish it.

He had first laid eyes on Valjean at sixteen. He had been naive then and not known it (as is the way of naive people.) He had been interning at the prison in Toulon, a position given to him because of his previous experiences with the law as a youth. He was to see what his future held if he did not realign his life's path. It was a grim place and a grim time in his life. The warden had warned him of 24601, called him a monster, described him a behemoth, but Javert had not believed him. Internally, he had smirked and doubted; believed on some level the man was a coward and that this 24601 was merely a spook embiggened by myth. It was not so. The fellow was ginormous. He had frozen in disbelief as he watched him, watched him lift an immense piece of metal. Watched in horror as he carried it, what took two other men and a winch to carry, reddening and bulging with effort. The immense ringing thump as it was placed down sent a twang through Javert from his heart into his soul. He did not know it, but that experience awakened something in him that would haunt the rest of his life.

From that moment onwards he had become enamored with 24601. He had been fascinated by him. Thankfully, his life had taught him to keep his emotions hidden deep inside and his outward expression had always been one of cold indifference, but inside from sixteen to eighteen years of age, he had been roiling. It did not occur to him that there was a ten-year age gap between them, it did not occur to him that Valjean had never spoken a word beyond ‘Yes, sir’ and ‘No, sir’ to him. In his childish fantasy, the money he would earn in his job as a prison guard would pay for them a home when Valjean was released from prison, and he lay in bed at night imagining the beast stretched out beside him. Imagined exploring that large and powerful body with tentative but hormonally enthused hands. Looking back now, 24601 had no doubt felt nothing but contempt for the lanky, acne-ridden teen that had ordered him about daily. No doubt he had desired nothing more than to break Javert's neck. But the foolish, ignorant boy, who longed for nothing more than the low strong voice of a man to tell him he loved him, had not a wit in his head to realise it. Javert scoffed now, thinking of himself, half with humour and half with shame. What a dangerous game he had played then: a young homosexual boy, in prison, longing for the embrace of much older stronger men. He could have thrown away his entire life.

Thankfully, in the twilight of his eighteenth year, he had learned from his mistake. For the first time 24601 had laid hands on him. He could not entirely remember the incident that led to the event, only that 24601 had been surrounded by guards and that he had stepped forward, baton raised, to restrain him and 24601 had turned, taken a handful of his jacket, and thrown him like a bag of washing back across the room. He'd hit the wall and received a concussion. But what had shaken him, what had really shaken him had been the look in the prisoner’s eyes. In his fantasies, Valjean had never looked at him with such dark, burning hatred. Pure pure hatred. It must have broken Javert's heart. He couldn't remember. He could only remember sitting there against the wall as a guard rushed in with a cattle prod. They had electrocuted the monster and then jumped upon him, six men crushing him to the ground. And Javert had just sat there, jaw hanging until the Warden had closed his mouth for him and helped him to his feet. He had taken a day off work and cried himself to sleep that night. Not because his heart ached, but because he had been filled with such agonising self-loathing and hatred. It was then that Javert had realised he was cursed to make the same mistakes as his mother. That if he did not change his ways and close off his heart that he would end his life in a cold lonely state of abandonment, having lost every scrap of dignity and self-respect in the pursuit of violent and abusive men incapable of love.

From that point onwards he had decided to forego all gentle emotions and all physical acts of self-pleasure. The many years of training himself to associate 24601 in his mind's eye with a rush of endorphins had made him blind and vulnerable. He would no longer open himself up to those vulnerabilities. He realised, on reflection, that the quiet noble pain that 24601 seemed to emanate (and that had called to him in his lonely, painful youth) was a mere deception: a way to lure in the empathetic and caring so that he might disabuse them. Javert came to fear and hate 24601 as all the other guards did, and looked on him as an animal, a particularly clever and deceptive animal, but an animal nonetheless. And then the day came that 24601 escaped and Javert worked to scrub his memory from his mind entirely and free himself of the loathsome influence on his life for good.

Time had passed and Javert's wounds had healed over into knotty scars, and his heart had grown hard and cool. He had thrown himself into work, improving his station, moving into the police force, and saving his money to buy himself a home: somewhere that he might lie in an empty bed and watch the sunlight slip down the wall. When he dreamed, he dreamed of living alone.

Having brooded and ruminated on his past, he slid his hand down under the sheets and grasped himself. It would be a quick and efficient deed to allow himself a quick and efficient return to sleep, and he scrunched his heavy brown down over his eyes and squeezed his eyes closed. His hand was fast and rough and he swallowed a grunt as he caught himself in some tissue. He quickly hurried into the bathroom, head low, and dropped it into the toilet avoiding facing himself in the bathroom mirror as he returned to bed. His return to sleep was not quick and efficient at all, and after an hour's tossing and turning he perched himself instead on the edge of his desk and watched the day break through cracked blinds.


He had been imprisoned like John the Baptist, and had died and returned to life like Jesus Christ; any Christian man would believe Jean Valjean to be a saint, fortunately, Javert was an atheist and so he knew exactly what Valjean was: a conman and a liar. Yes, he was no saint and he was no gift from God. Some nights Javert wondered if God had even had a hand in the man’s creation. What a devil he had been, a hulking monster bound with chains and great rings of metal, alone in the darkness of his isolation cell. Javert, a mere child, had leaned his brow against the metal to peer through that small slit opening at the creature, breath warm against the cool metal of the door. How soft and enticing that voice had been as it whispered to him from the darkness,



“I am not a monster. Have they told you my name?”



“24601,” Javert had answered,



“No,” the voice had replied, “My name. They call me Jean Le Cric. You have heard that name?”



“Yes.”



“My name is Jean. What is your name?”



At this Javert had gathered his wits and bristled, 



“That is none of your concern. To you, I am another guard.”



There had been a tense pause and the chains had gently tinkled in the darkness as the beast moved. 



“I suppose so.”



There was another pause in which Javert counted his breaths: in, out, one, two, and tried to calm them into an even rhythm.



“Are you frightened of me?” The voice said, so timid.



“Yes,” Javert hushed, voice barely above a whisper. He should not be talking: it was a rule, yet he couldn’t resist. Something about that soft calm voice coaxed it from him. He thought he could even see the glint of eyes,



“You don’t have to be frightened of me,” The Cric said, “I won’t hurt you.”



“They told me that you snapped an inmate's arm in two places,”



“Yes, I… I’m not proud of it,” There was another pause and a gentle clattering of metal, “Let me come a little closer. You can touch me. You will feel I am not a monster. I promise you.”



He had seen this beast about in the yard lifting pieces of immense metal, sidings of battleships, he had watched him shake and tremble as the guards took turns shocking him with the electric collar, he had watched them make him lift and toss increasingly heavy items for bets. Yet, something about standing here now, even though he knew The Cric was chained to the walls and ceiling, his feet in a spreader bar, the electric collar around his throat, something about the quiet and the darkness made him tremble. Yet he did not move. Even as the clattering of the chains grew almost unbearable, as the shuffle of feet drew closer and closer. And then there was a hand, broad and blunt, and coarse with callouses, and it was reaching through the little slit of the door, fingers open and palm up.



“Touch me,” whispered the low gentle voice.



Javert’s eyes flicked up from the hand and he was caught like a fly in the spider's web, paralysed as if struck by a wasps poison stinger by those twinkling green eyes. He reached out as if in a daze and felt the soft warmth of those fingers against his own.



“See,” the beast whispered, “See. I am no monster. I am a man. They are the ones who would make a monster of me,” and he closed his fingers around Javert’s with a desperate grasp. 



Javert cried out, pulling his hand back, the grip had been like a vice, if he had waited a second longer… he was frightened to think what could have happened. He barked, beating his nightstick against the door until the beast had receded in its cage,



“I knew it!” Javert snarled, ”Devil!”



“It was an accident. I forget my own strength. I have been used for so long-”



“Excuses!” he flushed, teeth bared, and beat the door until the beast fell silent. The truth was he wasn’t angry at the creature, he was angry at himself for being so naive. For being so easily hypnotised. 



He thought he would learn but lying in the dark in his forties he could still see those green eyes twinkling. His body shivering as he remembered with painful accuracy the bulging veins and swollen muscles, red with strain. As he remembered the pain of the two fractured ribs he had received when the beast had thrown him aside. As he remembered the gentleness of Valjean’s fingers as he had untied the ropes at the bondage class. How could those be the same hands that had so carelessly crushed his fingers? That had beaten his ribs in with a single blow. And then… in Montreuil ser mer… when he had watched the Mayor so easily lift that jeep. Yes, of course, he had faked straining: had grit his teeth, flushed his face, groaned and grimaced, but the truth was that it was skin deep. His legs and arms had been firm and calm, no shaking, his eyes cool, his lift steady and confident. All pretense. 



The older guards had warned him hadn't they? He faked his own weakness. He must be kept hungry, tired, exhausted for if not he would fake weakness and then shock with his strength. That was why they went to his cell every night four or five times a night to disturb his sleep, why they chained and bound him, why they fed him such minuscule portions. Yet his body never dwindled, calories seemed to have no impact on him. He was just tremendous… inhuman. How had Javert not recognised him immediately? But then, hadn’t even Belle been seduced by the beast when he had donned his finery?



-Seduced?



Where had that come from? That had been a glancing thought from some different angle. Some completely alien mind had drifted that thought into Javert’s own. He had not been seduced by the Mayor. He had been deceived, yes, manipulated, made a fool of, but never seduced. Perhaps at times, he had wanted to be seduced… on those long hard nights when he ground his teeth and wonder what- what!- he had to do to earn the Mayor’s approval?! He had been so young then and so eager to impress, so eager to feel valued and significant. How desperately he had worked to try and earn even the slightest passing glance of affection from that man. That fraud! It was utterly shameful to think of it now, and dwelling on it only made him angry. Only made him tremble and roll over onto his stomach and scream into his pillow and pull at his hair in great handfuls. 



The devil was beautiful, he told himself. It wasn’t that he was religious just that he was so utterly ignorant of religion and fiction on the whole that he knew no other metaphor to draw. No other imagery to give succor to his barren mind. The Mayor had had every appearance of an angel: the simple soft suits, never blaring or proud but practical and well kept; the curls of dark hair that fell about his forehead as though he were a statue carved by an ancient Greek hand; and worst of all those eyes… those sad, soft green eyes. They looked at the whole world through a haze of grief. Javert had not understood it but oh how it had called to him. How he had wanted to throw himself into that grief and drown in it. And how when those eyes had turned to him with the flickering timidity of a mouse, how Javert had wanted to leap upon him roused like the beast that curled in his own DNA- hungry and lusting to fulfil its own loathesome nature. But over time that desire to crawl and beg to climb into the Mayor’s sad limpid green eyes, into the dark forest of curls that tumbled over his brow, into those pink flushed lips that hid coyly beneath his heavy moustache, that desire had changed into a bitter resentment for no matter how Javert watched him with such open adoration the only looks he got in return were of suspicion, disgust, and even on occasion anger. What had he done to this man? He could not wrack a thought from his mind that might explain it. Was he not a good inspector? Was he not loyal and hardworking? Did he not come to heel when called? Did he not walk proudly and nicely a step behind when summoned to public duties beside his master? That rejection and bitterness, that lack of answers had twisted in his gut like an eel, wrapping itself in tight and painful knots until finally, it had found release in that glorious moment as the Mayor had stooped against the jeep and with smooth solid strength lifted it. That knot in his stomach had fallen loose, placid and resting with satisfaction as an equal grin of satisfaction had spread across Javert’s face like a tiger’s opening maw in the moment of the leap. He must have appeared a devil himself for the Mayor looked at him with undisguised fear then and Javert knew that they saw each other. They saw each other. 



Javert had burned that image into his mind: that look of fear with just an undercurrent and violence. He’d known it so well. He’d seen it so many times before. It was a look that peered from the windows of his own soul every night when he closed his eyes. The bitterness of knowing was afterall one he knew well. How many times would he need to learn his lesson? He had truly believed the two broken ribs Valjean had given him in Toulon had been enough but here he was again, crawling his way back up from the pit to the light again. To redemption. How easily those eyes had weighed around him like an anchor and tried to pull him down into the darkness of his own soul. Yet even now he could feel that dread weight at his leg, tugging at him, pulling him towards that old yearning. He just didn’t know what to do about it. What mental tool could he used to free himself of those chains? He felt as though his entire life was a process of climbing out of his own watery grave. 



“You’re being dramatic, Javert,” he grunted. He would find Valjean again and he would overcome this weakness in his nature. He would finally best the beast and the chain on his own leg would become the tool he would chain the beast instead. He would free himself from prison by returning Valjean to it. 


The roar of the crowd is animal, a hideous blend of the guttural voices of the prisoners and the wild cackles of their guards. The sound and the heat of the room made the sweat bead on the nape of Javert’s neck and he resisted the urge to wipe it away for fear of looking weak. His arms were folded tightly over his chest and he kept them there in an almost hug. The animal roar of passion began to blend into a chant,

“The Beast! The Beast! The Beast!” 

Despite his disgust Javert felt his eyes drawn inevitably to the large dome cage, peering through the thick iron bars and down into the sandy pit within. The Head Warden raised his hand and the room hesitated and then slipped to a quiet murmur,

“Bring out the prisoners!” 

The roar grew again in a great wave that made Javert flinch with the volume. He swallowed down the pain of the sound and dug his fingers into his sides to distract himself. Pain always helped. 

A door was opened and three prisoners entered the pit, one waving, the other nervously twitching a shiv, and the final looking over his shoulder fearfully, begging no doubt to be let out. 

“Once again I offer three of our prisoners the opportunity for freedom! If these brave three can overcome The Beast they will be up for parole- and with my support!”

The crowd bellowed, raising their hands in celebration. The Warden raised his hand again but the crowd only grew wilder,

“Bring in The Beast!”

The second door opened and Javert forced his eyes open to watch the chained man enter with sluggish steps. He was always a shock to see, so broad, so powerful, all rippling muscle, reddened with pain. He had been washed for the bout so that every muscle, every writhing sinew could be seen beneath his skin. His massive shoulder slumped, his shaved head hung, eyes cast down to the ground. Javert knew there was no place in the world this creature would more loathe to be. It would rather been in solitary, it would rather been in that multitude of heavy chains, it would rather be in the dark and the silence. Still, it remained upright, still, it raised its head and with small fierce eyes stared directly at the warden. Javert felt himself shudder. The Warden only smiled. 

“Come on, lads!” he called, jeering the prisoners on, “He’s in chains!”

The two braver prisoners approached, darting across the sandy floor, one with his fist clenched tight around his knife. The Beast, 24601 Javert would rather call him, seemed to speak to them but they didn’t heed his words and the prisoner slashed at him drawing first blood. The audience howled with delight at the sight and Javert’s stomach turned. Every inch of him ached to protest, to cry that it was unlawful, that it was wrong- just wrong- morally, legally, even in the eyes of a God he didn’t believe in! But the Warden had heard of his protests and it had gained Javert nothing, nothing but the warning that if he spoke out further his career -and so his life- would be over. He bit back his voice and focussed on the pain of his fingernails digging into his ribs. Below him the prisoners began to beat on 24601, slashing at him, covering him with wounds. 24601 seemed only to turn away the knife away when it when in for a stab. Even from the great height he was seated, Javert could see the growing impatience in the men's movements, the building frustration that The Beast refused to end it or allow it to be ended. The crowd had begun to jeer, their lust for blood unfulfilled they brimmed with a greater hatred for the creature they deemed less than human. Or perhaps more than human. The jeering seemed to touch something in 24601 and he cried out in rage turning in a circle to bellow at the crowd that seemed to hunch over the barriers so much so that if there were no cage they would have fallen in with him. The prisoner with the knife took his opportunity and drove the knife into the muscle of 24601’s back. He roared with pain and turned swinging his chained hands to bludgeon the man, who was knocked high off his feet and fell into a heap on the sand, unmoving. The second man turned as though to run and was caught in the swing back, blown to the floor where he too lay in a heap. The crowd both roared and jeered, half of them delighted by the violence and half of them hating The Beast for bringing down their compatriots. In a sudden jerking movement The Beast approached the metal bars, grasping one in his hands he began to wrench. There was the screeching of metal and the steady bowing of the bar inwards. 

Javert felt the thrill of terror and disbelief shiver through him and he rushed to lean over the balcony. The Warden raised his hand quickly and a great lever clunked down sending electricity bursting through the bars. Despite his cry of agony 24601 refused to let go. His skin grew redder, the veins in his forehead bulging, his teeth clenched agonisingly. The smell of burning flesh began to waft up to the guards' seats.

“Stop this!” Javert cried, turning between the Warden and the burning man below, “My God! You’ll kill him!”

The Warden scowled but lowered his hand and the level thunked off. 24601 seemed to stand frozen in place and then slowly his hands loosened and he toppled backwards, leaving a red wetness stuck to the metal bars. With tremulous steps the coward who had hung back at the door approaced the stilled hulk and then with a sudden spike of vitriol he planted a fierce kick into the fallen Beast's ribs. The crowd erupted in delight and the prisoner raised his fists to them as though he were their hero.

Javert’s head fell, his long fringe hanging over his face, half stuck to his sweat-tacky forehead. The sound of the Warden’s footsteps retreating and a door creaking drew Javert from his reverie and he rose, following after The Warden down the stairs to the floor below. They exited in a covered trough between the crowd of prisoners that led towards a door. The bellowing echo of the prisoners above was deafening and Javert bit down on the inside of his mouth until it bled. The Warden had gathered a group of guards, two of whom were carrying a stretcher. The heavy metal door was unlocked with a loud banging and the guards rushed into the pit to strain and lift 24601 into the stretcher. It took four men to lift him and he lay completely slack in the stretcher's hold. Javert’s stomach turned at the sight. He kept his face neutral as he stood at the Warden’s shoulder watching as they carried the stretcher past. As the stretcher reached their side a meaty, powerful hand grasped at Javert’s wrist making him jump. The red dry lips cracked open and 24601 released a wheezing wordless noise. Javert wrenched his arm free, grimacing at the burnt flesh that clung to his skin.

“Look at him,” Javert said, “He won’t be able to work like this. You’ve lost a month's work from him- perhaps more! What was the point of it?” 

The guards glowered at him as they carried The Beast away. The Warden turned to Javert,

“You’re an ignorant boy, Javert! These men live in fear of that creature every day of the year and you’d deprive them of one night of relief, one night of satisfaction. They deserve this- not just the guards, the prisoners too! And you’d take that from them. You’d leave that anger and loathing simmering all year round, to what? Burst out on us. You’re a fool. Don’t mess with what works, Javert. That’s my advice to you.”

Javert lowered his eyes, cowed but still struggling with that part of him that rebelled against his master’s words. He swallowed the taste of acid and bowed a short sharp bow. 

“Forgive me, sir.”


It’s two weeks since 24601 has been returned to his cell. Javert hates the man, he does, but it’s good to see that the burns are healing and the strength returning. It fills Javert with shame to see the still raw red welts. He has drafted and redrafted the letter to the mayor, the Minister of the Interior, and even the ombudsman and then discarded it. After all, the Head Warden had told him the government knew. They knew all about how 24601 was treated and more so approved of it, and he’d seen the men in moderately expensive suits arrive and leave himself. One year he’d even been elected to stand guard while they went into his cell and… tested him. They’d injected him first with something that made him weak and drowsy and then had swabbed his mouth, taken samples of his blood, his sweat, his hair, his skin, and then… taken other samples which Javert could not bare to watch. They too had filled him with shame, shame at the futility of his own anger and indignity at the treatment of the barely conscious man, and a greater more sickening shame at the heat that watching that soft body being fondled roused in him. He’d wept that night. He was nineteen, he was nothing and nobody and his word would mean nothing to nobody but if he worked hard and was strict and kept his head down perhaps one day he could be made warden and then he could do something- anything to alleviate the suffering of another human being- because 24601 

was

 human despite what the guards might say or believe or spit with vitriol he 

was

 human. Yes, he was inhumanely powerful, strong and muscular, and beautiful but he was human, not a beast or a monster. Javert could say this with complete truth because he too had suffered at the man’s hands, the cracked rib that occasionally ached in the winter was proof. But no matter how dangerous the man was he was still a human being and by law should be protected by the Human Rights Act. Still, he showed 24601 no favour, he couldn’t dare to for fear of damaging his career, and besides that, the man had left Javert with deeper wounds than a cracked rib.



It had been 24601 who had awakened the wolf in him. It had been that first touch that had broken him, those fingers that had clamped around his hand and seared his skin down to the bone. They had left invisible scars on him that had not healed and had melted away the bars of the cage that he had kept around the wolf in his heart. And oh, how that wolf had longed to be free. It was a slathering, hungry beast and he had fled from 24601 while he could, abandoning his duty under excuse of sickness, and had locked himself in his quarters. God help him, he had shaken and trembled and burned, and every hair on the back of his neck had risen and he had scratched the skin of his face raw and pulled at his hair and dug the heels of his hands into his eyes but nothing had helped him. The truth was that he and Valjean were the same, only he was better at hiding it- or he had been. But he was a beast, a freak, a creature not fully human. He had always been this way. His mother had been a magic woman and she had told him his father was a wolf and he had sat at the window as a boy and looked at the moon and known that she had meant it. He was as much a wolf as a man. He had clenched his hands either side of his head and dug his claws into his skull and felt every muscle in his body contort in an attempt to flee his skin. It was not enough and so he’d shed his uniform and dropped to the floor, gnashing his teeth and salivating and, swept up in madness, had howled for the moon. 



It had never changed, not in all the years he had hunted Valjean. The air trembled when they neared each other, the hairs rose on Javert’s neck, he drooled and trembled and clenched his teeth. He could smell him, he could feel the electricity of his body no matter or close or how far. The wolf in him responded to Valjean as a predator to its prey and it felt as though when he looked at him his eyes and fangs grew in size a thousand times. He knew that even if Valjean were pardoned the truth was that he could never stop chasing. That part of him that hunted did not obey logic.



And he had protected the hunt so many times. It made him shake to think of how he had lied to authority figures but he had. He had lied to those men in their moderately expensive suits, had convinced them he was mad- which was easy because by most of society’s standards he was mad. Most men did not believe themselves sired by a wolf but then most men would not believe it was possible for a man to lift a jeep with ease and he had seen that with his own eyes as had ten others in Montreuil-Sur-Mer. Valjean might be human but he was also inhuman, that was clear, and Javert was the same. They were two of a kind. This was a fact Valjean didn’t know but one that Javert would never forget. That was why he would always find him. And, as he laced up his boots, he held tight to that fact and prepared himself to go out hunting again. He had very little idea where Valjean might be but he knew, he knew as long as he kept looking he would find him. If it was a year from now or five years from now he would pick up the scent and that wolf in him would show its fangs and they would be together again, no matter how Valjean ran.


Javert tucks his shirt in and fusses the waistband of his trousers and then pulls down the bottom of his jacket three times.

“Mayor Madeleine is ready to speak with you, Monsieur.” 

Javert starts and then nods his head, removing his hat. The manager steps around him and heads back down the steps, the metal ringing with every footfall. Javert enters the Mayor’s office, closing the door politely behind him. When he turns his breath catches in his throat. The Mayor is sitting at his desk, hunched over a handful of paperwork. He’s a broad man with glinting green eyes, pale skin, thick dark brown hair that curls over his forehead, and a heavy but well-trimmed moustache. They stare at each other in silence. There is nothing about this man that should make the hairs on the back of Javert’s neck stand on end and yet…

“You are Javert, the new Inspector?” the Mayor says, and his voice is short as though Javert’s failure to address him quickly has irritated him,

“Yes, Monsieur le Mayor,” he answers bowing quickly and deeply. The Mayor hums,

“It’s… a pleasure to meet you, Javert.”

“Forgive me, Monsieur,” Javert says as he rises, brushing his fringe from his eyes, “but you seem familiar to me. Have we met somewhere?”

The Mayor pauses, there’s something in the way his body stiffens and his hands twitch that strikes Javert in some way he cannot place. 

“No, Inspector, you… have a face I would remember.”

Javert has faced many insults in his life, not all of which he had initially recognised for what they were, and this twinges that part of him which is familiar with humiliation and belittlement. He does what he has always done and presses the pain down, and waits for the Mayor to say something more.

“Well, Javert,” he says after a long uncomfortable pause, “You come highly recommended I’m sure you will do a fine job here in Montreuil-sur-Mer.”

Javert bows again,

“You need have no doubt, Monsieur, of my complete and utter dedication to the job.”

The Mayor does not so much say the words ‘you’re dismissed’ but he doesn’t need to, the flat uninterested look on his face and the curt nod of his head say enough. Javert turns on his heel and leaves, politely closing the door behind himself and thunks down the stairs wondering where this friendly and kind man he has heard so much about has gone. 

It bothers him more than a little, the Mayor’s unfriendly treatment, although he cannot justify to himself why. Afterall, he has done nothing to earn the Mayor’s friendship and yet, at the same time, in the ensuing weeks he has seen the kindness and gentleness the Mayor seems to offer the people and wonders why it is held in reserve for him alone. He has not had the time to offend the man, surely? Yes, over the years many have pointed out that he is naturally prickly, and he has often found himself unliked without justification by those that have met him, but something about this situation niggles at him. There is a look in the Mayor’s eyes that appears only in the second when he first catches sight of Javert, and although Javert might struggle to recognise many emotions he has never struggled to recognise hate. 

 

He is stabbed during an arrest. It is of no concern to him, he has been stabbed before and will be stabbed again; but despite his disinterest in the matter, he is forced to the hospital. To his surprise, the Mayor appears around the corner of the Urgences Department and to his further surprise strides directly towards him. He tries to stand and bow and grimaces, pressing his hand to the tight bandages the nurse has wrapped around the wound: a glancing strike across his ribs. 

“Don’t bow, Javert,” the Mayor says gruffly, and it strikes Javert that he again seems angry but this time he seems to make little effort to hide it, “You are injured.”

“Yes, Monsieur Mayor, it is nothing. I have been stabbed before.”

The Mayor grunts,

“And you have grown blasé about it.”

Javert almost chuckles,

“Yes, Monsieur Mayor, perhaps.”

This answer does not seem to please the Mayor and he crosses his tree-trunk thick arms over his monolithic chest with displeasure,

“Forgive me for saying so but you are setting a bad example with your reckless behaviour, Monsieur Inspector.”

At this Javert bristles, his lip pulling up over his teeth in a snarl. He can’t help himself. It’s bad enough to be slighted for no reason but to be outright insulted?

“Monsieur,” he grinds out, “Forgive me but it seems to me that I have done something to offend you for you have treated me with little more than contempt since I have arrived here and now it seems you have made a concerted effort to attend my sick bed only to criticise me.”

To Javert's surprise, the Mayor seems cowed, a look of shame passing over the handsome face like a dark cloud.

“You are correct, Inspector Javert,” he says, much to Javert’s surprise, “I have been unkind to you since you have arrived. Forgive me. It is not personal, I assure you. It is merely that I struggle to unite my belief in social care with the duties of the police in our community.”

Javert wants to believe it, he does. The Mayor does seem genuinely contrite but again a strange feeling passes over him, almost like nausea and he finds himself doubting. 

“Monsieur Inspector, I did not come to criticise you, in fact, I have been here in the children’s ward but when I heard you had been stabbed I had to come and see you. I was concerned for your welfare and I think that my frustration has left me short with you.”

“There’s no need to be concerned, Monsieur Mayor.”

“But there is!” the Mayor says and this emotion strikes Javert as true, “I feel great frustration at the continuing crime in Montreuil-Sur-Mer. I have put so much emphasis on funding and developing social care programs and yet still there are criminals on our streets!”

Javert does laugh then, a short bark of humourless laughter,

“Monsieur, you cannot be so naive! Do you truly believe that every criminal is a victim? Monsieur, every man is born with a seed of evil and almost every man will water it throughout his life. Even you have been unkind to me without cause, you the great man of generosity, imagine how great the failings must be of the common man! You cannot tell me you believe your pity is capable of curing them of their very nature?"

This observation does not prove to be funny to the Mayor and his face clouds over like a great storm and his powerful hands' clench,

“It seems, Inspector, that you are healthier than I thought as your injury has not impacted your sense of humour. I will leave you to rest now and attend to my other duties. My acts of ‘pity’ which you hold in such contempt.”

He turns and leaves. Javert opens his mouth to speak, to apologise for being so disrespectful to a superior, but finds his words frozen in his throat. Something in him wants to leap up and make chase but his shame at his behaviour holds him tight to the hospital bed. Instead, he spends the next few hours twiddling his thumbs until he can release himself back into the wild and skulk back to his flat. 

At least, he thinks as the months' pass, that he has given the Mayor a reason to hate him. It is almost comforting. He has always found it better to be the owner of an unpleasant answer than it is to wonder and doubt. He doesn't like wrestling with questions, not unless they enable him to make an arrest. Still, he finds himself growing bitter at the sight of the soft smiles the Mayor hands out as easily to everyone as coins and toys, or to everyone but him. It seems another one of life's little cruelties that have been dolled out to him unearned and unbidden. Then he grows annoyed at himself for being annoyed about it. After all, why should he care or not care who the man blesses with his smiles and a twinkle of his eyes? He endeavours to continue performing above and beyond his duty as he always has and if the Mayor remains blind to Javert's best qualities that will be his choice.

Life continues on very much as it has always done for Javert. He pays to stable his horse in a nice quiet place just outside of town, rents a very small, very cheap flat for himself, and spends as little time as humanly possible being sociable. He is generally disliked by his inferiors but respected, and is leant upon by his superiors who, as a reward for his hard work, tolerate him. He finds a nice place which he frequents for coffee and another nice place he frequents for fresh baked bread which is one of the very few pleasures he allows himself. He smokes quite a lot of cigarettes in celebration of quite a lot of successful cases and receives, much to his chagrin, resentful praise from the Mayor. He'd rather the man didn't praise him at all. In what little free time he has he sews and builds his scale replica of Toulon in Minecraft. Life is fine. He could live like that, lonely but fulfilled, forever. 

It is in the evening of an average day of going above and beyond his duty that this changes and changes for the worse. The sun has descended leaving the world set in that awkward midpoint where the light only seems to make the world harder to see. The kind of time of day that you can only wish it will be done soon and the darkness fully come in and you can go to bed. Javert hates this time of day, he likes the world dark and lit only by the light of the moon. That is when his skin trembles and his eyes blow and his footsteps grow as quiet as the wind on cobblestones. As he is, he is following a usual route past a line of shops when he comes across a disagreement: two men and a woman. He approaches, not speaking but listening and comes to the conclusion that one of the men is intervening in an attempted theft. Foolish. He steps closer, almost at the mens' elbows when he sees the glint of a knife and, without thought, he steps in. He really pays no attention to being stabbed, he is so used to it now that the only reaction it garners from him is boredom, and he quickly twists the thief's hand from the blade handle and around his back to handcuff him, angrily reading him his rights over the sound of his protesting. It is when he turns that everything goes wrong for he finds himself face-to-face with the Mayor. They stare at each other in mute shock. Javert unable to understand why he did not sense the man and the Mayor for reasons Javert does not understand until he motions down and says,

"Inspector, you've been stabbed."

"Yes, Monsieur le Mayor, I did tell you it was quite a common occurrence."

Despite Javert's protestations and the Mayor's obvious own experience, he forces Javert to accompany him to the hospital to be seen. Yes, it does turn out to be a rather more serious injury than Javert would wish to acknowledge but that is besides the point. 

 

He is extremely grumpy when he comes out of anaesthesia and even more grumpy when he finds himself in a private room. He's even grumpier when the Mayor appears, two hospital teas in hand looking very contrite.

"What am I doing in a private room?" He demands, still too drugged up to feign politeness, "I should be on the ward with everyone else."

"I paid for you to have a private room."

Javert scoffs, unimpressed,

"Why? There's no need to flaunt your wealth, Monsieur le Mayor, I am hardly impressed by the size of a man's wallet."

He's not exactly sure what he means by that when he says it.

"I only wished to express some gratitude, Inspector," the Mayor says as he places one of the teas down on the tidy little side table beside Javert's bed, "you saved my life."

"Hardly!" Javert scoffs again. He's in a scoffing mood apparently, "It was only a knife."

"Knives kill people, Javert."

"Well, yes," he concedes, but he scowls deeply to make sure that the Mayor doesn't think he has won this battle. 

The Mayor sighs and to Javert's chagrin seats himself across the room to sip his tea. Seeing that he cannot dissuade the man, Javert reaches to lift up his own cup and finds his arm shaking too much to lift the hot liquid safely. The Mayor leaps up as if his chair has given him an electric shock and half runs across the room to take the foam cup from Javert’s hand,

“Here,” he says, “let me,” and he tilts the cup to Javert’s lips for him to drink. Javert drinks and wrinkles his buckled nose,

“Sweet,” he says,

“Yes, sorry, I put a lot of sugars in. I thought you might need them for the shock.”

Javert gives a brief snort of amusement, showing his teeth only for a second, and then leans in to drink again. The sugar does seem to be lessening the shaking in his hands. It takes him until he’s drinking the dregs to realise that he has allowed the Mayor to nurse him like he’s a sickly child. He jerks his head back against the pillow and looks away. 

“Are you still thirsty? I’ll go get you another one. Or would you like a hot chocolate?”

“I’d like you to leave me alone,” Javert grumbles, “You’ve never played at being my friend before, I don’t need it now. Especially not out of a sense of guilt or being in my debt.”

“Well,” the Mayor says rising to his usually unimpressive full height (right now he seems to be towering over Javert in a way that makes him hunch up,) “I didn’t say we have to be friends but… you were right when you said I had been unkind to you and I do want to remedy that. Not out of guilt, but because I should be better than that. I’m supposed to be a good man. Everyone thinks I’m a good man. I don’t want to let people down.”

Javert glances up at him from under his heavy brow and finds the man… repentant? Genuine at least. 

“Well,” he grumbles, “That’s not my problem.”

The Mayor’s broad shoulders droop,

“But,” Javert continues, chewing on the words like a dry old piece of steak, “I suppose I know what it feels like to be under pressure to uphold certain expectations.” 

He doesn’t know why he tells the Mayor that, god knows the man hasn’t earned the right to know anything about Javert or his life. Still, it seems to brighten the man and he smiles one of those gentle, eye-creasing smiles that Javert focuses on ignoring.

“Good,” he says, “well, let me get you a new drink and we can cheers to new beginnings.”

He hurries out of the room, clearly trying to get away before Javert can change his mind and Javert releases a long puff of breath he hadn’t realised he had been holding. 

 


Being trapped in a hospital bed had two downsides: 



1. he was trapped in a hospital bed, 



2. he could do nothing to escape his 'visitors'. 



This included not only the Mayor but apparently some 'grateful citizens' who no doubt the Mayor had roped into 'keeping Javert company'- which Javert hated. He hated company. He hated gratitude. It diminished the job. Thankfully after four days, he was able to check himself out under the promise that he would be on desk work and would take all of his medications. The desk work he despised but at least the medications gave his day the rigidity of structure to help him cope with the inane and endless paperwork which seemed to melt time like it was butter on a hot skillet. The best part was that he was allowed to do some of the work from home so if he woke up that morning and didn't feel like putting his human face on and making himself palatable he could avoid socialising altogether. Even despite these few upsides he found himself quickly scratching up the walls. He couldn't ride his horse, he'd completed all of his sewing projects, he'd done six months worth of paperwork and he'd only been on medical for three weeks. 



He ended up spending his evenings sitting in a copse of trees a way behind his flat chain-smoking and abusing coffee, star-gazing. Or more accurately moon-gazing, and thinking about how easy life would be if he just gave in to his nature and ran off to live in the woods and never spoke to any human beings ever again. God, how he wanted to live in the woods: eating whatever he caught and forgetting how to speak. There would only be one downside to living in the woods in a hole in the ground and that was: order. Or really the lack of. It would be quiet and empty but it would also be unpredictable and uncontrollable. 



"Nothing can be fucking perfect," he grunted to himself, put out his cigarette and then pressed on his side as he struggled to get up. The wound itself was ok but the stitches pulled. Nothing serious had been injured but there had been a shallow glancing cut to some organ (he couldn't remember which one.) Still, he was fine and he'd be finer if everyone stopped making such a fuss. 


 


Javert was stumbling back home when he bumped into 

him

. 



"What are you doing out this late?" Javert demanded. They had both balked at the sight of each other on the street.



"Ah," the Mayor rubbed his large paw over the back of his neck sheepishly, "Javert if I tell you you will have to promise to be merciful with me."



"I will promise no such thing. It would be insincere."



"I like to walk at night and give out alms to the less fortunate. Those forced to work jobs under cover of darkness. You understand."



Javert forced himself to straighten to his full height so that he could cross his arms imposingly,



"You are funding criminal activity."



"Well, no" the Mayor replied, fidgeting with his scarf nervously.



"You're telling me you're giving money to whores and vagabonds."



"I prefer to phrase it as 'unfortunates'."



Javert scoffed,



"You can phrase it however you like,"



"I'm not using their services," the Mayor replied, that scowl falling over his face so easily. He still didn't like Javert and it was almost a relief to see. 



Then in the next instant the Mayor was approaching,



"You're supposed to be on bedrest, Inspector. You shouldn't be out late at night, it's cold." He reached to take Javert's elbow and he jerked it away with a hiss of pain,



"I'm not a child under curfew!"



"Still," the Mayor said, voice growing low and firm, "let me walk you home."


 


Despite his own wishes, Javert did as he was told and even, although it was agonising, let the Mayor drape his coat over Javert's shoulders,



"There," he said, "that might warm you a little. At least enough to get you home."



Javert was very glad he only had around a ten-minute walk because the Mayor's coat around his shoulders had warmed him considerably- primarily in his face and ears which were no doubt red. It was a horrible thing to admit but the Mayor really was quite handsome, and it turned out he smelt great too. Or at least his coat did. It almost made Javert hate him more. If there was a God he had given great handfuls to the Mayor and had really skimped on Javert.



 


They walked in an awkward silence to the front door of Javert’s building and then stopped outside. Javert coughed a little into his hand and the Mayor wrung his scarf in his hands,

“Well,” he said, “I suppose you should call me Madeleine, seeing as we’re trying to start a more positive working relationship.”

“On a second-name basis then,” Javert said, curling his lip sardonically, 

“Well yes,” the Mayor replied, “I figured first names would be perhaps a step too far.”

Javert sighed,

“Yes, you’re right there. You’re free to refer to me as Javert if you insist. Or Inspector.”

“Or Inspector Javert?”

“At a push.”

“Yes, well,” The Mayor-Madeleine said with a little hint of a rogueish smile, “You can call me whatever you want as long as it doesn’t get you in trouble at work.”

Javert turned away to hide his smile and fumbled his keys in the lock,

“That’s the benefit of being the boss, Monsieur.”

It wasn’t flirting, Javert reassured himself. It was polite banter at best.

 

In some ways things became easier over the next few months, in other ways they became immeasurably harder. For example: now the Mayor was smiling at him Javert found that he didn’t really want it to stop. It wasn’t that he was some weak-willed chump who required affection to live, it was simply that it was a sign that he was doing a good job and he enjoyed the feeling of pride that swelled in his chest every time the Mayor’s gently creasing eyes met his. And if the Mayor occasionally bumped into him on his routes, or if he unintentionally organised his route to bump into the Mayor on his lunch break then what was the harm? Of course, they weren’t friends, but the positive relationship between them certainly improved the police department's performance and that was the most important thing.

Despite the gentle bloom of pleasure that blossomed in Javert’s chest every time the Mayor turned his way something about the man still set the wolf in Javert snarling. The hair on the back of his neck would stand on end and his skin prickle. The more open the Mayor became to his presence the more he found himself drawn to watch the man, tormented by the constant ache of curiosity. It seemed bizarre to him that a man so blatantly irresistible was single, lived alone, and held himself at such a cool arms-length from his peers because that was it wasn’t it: now he had seen the Mayor’s smile he had realised how fake those he gave out were. He was a fraud in a way that Javert couldn’t place. He wasn’t faking his financial generosity; he definitely was giving out money to the homeless and prostitutes- Javert had checked- so it must be in some other way. He was building schools, advocating for mental health, setting up food banks, doing just about every charitable deed you could name. He was also broad-shouldered, muscular, handsome, with a dimpled chin, and twinkling eyes and sculptural cheekbones; there was no logical reason that he should choose to not be married- or at least engaged!

Javert turned this problem over and over in his mind as he lay in bed at night. His body had begun to heal and he was growing fitter every day. He would even be able to ride again soon and in a childish way he thought about the satisfaction he would feel when the Mayor realised he had hidden such a talent. He rolled on his side in bed and paused, staring into the darkness. He wasn’t alone in the room. He could see, barely illuminated by the light of the moon the swell of flesh. It moved and he realised he was staring at a muscular shoulder, then the figure moved forward once more and the light swept over the bulging chest as though some invisible figure was sweeping away a sheet of darkness to expose the glistening tan skin beneath. A pair of green eyes twinkled in the darkness, and as the figure made a third laborious step into the light Javert was startled awake by the clattering of chains. He sat up in bed gasping and sticky with sweat. He sat for a few moments, counting his exhalations and staring into the corner of the room by the window. He was alone, of course, he knew he was alone. That figure had haunted the old Javert, the lonely little boy not the strong confident man he was now. He pulled back his bed sheet and found with a new type of horror that he had made a mess of his pajama bottoms. As he scrubbed himself in the very small bathroom, he swore to himself that he would make sure this didn’t happen again.

The only thing that had changed in his life recently had been the entrance of Madeleine and so he treated the man with the same scrutiny as he would a suspect. He watched the Mayor’s face cloud over and grow concerned and slowly, under Javert's harsh looks, he seemed to pull away. This only seemed to Javert to strengthen the belief that in some way the Mayor had been aware of his negative influence on Javert’s life or was in some way hiding some guilt. If it made him sad that the Mayor no longer smiled at him that was only a sign of his weakness leaving the body. Thinking objectively, Madeleine did share many similar properties with 24601. They were both incredibly handsome, both absurdly muscular, of a similar if not the same height, and both exuded that quiet timid sadness which concealed a hard strong core. It was no surprise then that he should excite such memories from Javert’s unconscious. Excite was perhaps the wrong choice of word. Arouse. Arouse was a worse choice of word. Javert huffed to himself and folded his arms over his chest.

He hadn’t even gotten to really enjoy seeing the Mayor’s reaction to him riding his horse. The Mayor had approached him with a surprising nervousness as he had ridden his horse through the town center. Children of course had wanted to pet his nose but Javert’s foul looks had luckily dissuaded either them or their parents. Sadly, he could no longer find an excuse to give the Mayor the same distaste in public and so he had to school his expression as the man approached and very timidly raised his hand,

“May I?”

“If he doesn’t bite you,” he’d replied, and the Mayor had given a satisfying wince before gently touching the rust-coloured horse’s nose.

“He has a lovely white star,” he said, “on his nose.”

“Yes.”

The Mayor seemed to counsel a grimace but he refused to give up,

“What’s his name?”

“Yama.”

“Ah.”

They stood in an awkward silence as the Mayor idly patted the horse's face. Javert shifted slightly and the horse shifted from one foot to another startling the Mayor in a way that made Javert have to hide a grin.

“He’s named after the Hindu god of Justice, Monsieur, of Justice, Law, and Punishment.”

The Mayor’s face seemed to cloud over at that and he pursed his beautiful lips,

“Well… a suitable name for a police horse.”

Javert found himself fiddling with the reins in a new kind of awkwardness.

“I didn’t know you were a Hindu, Inspector?”

The Mayor offered and Javert found himself growing desperate to escape the conversation which seemed to be dragging itself on, even through its laboured last breathes,

“There’s a lot of things we don’t know about each other, Monsieur. I’m not.”

“Oh, ok.”

“I have to go,” Javert added quickly,

“Yes, of course. Um. Yes. Of course,” the Mayor slapped his palms on his thighs a couple of times and stepped back, “Could you, could you come to my office tomorrow so I can speak with you Inspector?”

Why? Javert thought, dreading the idea.

“Sure,” he said.

“Alright,” The Mayor said, “Have a nice… horse.”

Javert stared a moment and then nodded quickly pushing his heels into Yama’s sides to get him to walk on, carrying Javert away from the agony of the conversation. Riding the horse hadn’t been cool or impressive, it had left him feeling obvious and uncomfortably at the center of attention while he’d made a tit of himself.

“Don’t tell anyone about that conversation,” he grumbled to Yama as the horse trotted away over the cobblestones. Thankfully, Yama was about as social as Javert and so he simply didn’t give a shit. Javert patted him in gratitude. Sometimes the only friend you needed was someone who didn’t care about your feelings or problems. Or was a horse.

Mentions of sexual abuse of prisoners in passing


Walking to the Mayor's office feels like walking to the chopping block. Why? He does not know. Perhaps because he knows, in truth, that he has no evidence. It's not respectable: instinct, gut feeling, woman's intuition - whatever you want to call it! Still, it's all he has and it is driving him and driving him mad. Every thump thump thump of his boots on the metal stairwell makes his hands clench until his nails almost cut into his palms. He waits with a bowed head to be called in and enters silently, closing the door behind him. He stands like a man about to be shot, upright, hands folded behind his back, eyes defiant. Instead of looking at him like a gunman, the mayor looks at him like a distinctly disappointed school teacher, hands laced on his desk.



"Javert," he says.



"Monsieur, you summoned me?"



"Summoned you?" The Mayor answers, "I tried to request."



"A man of your social position does not request, Monsieur."



"Let me get to the point," the man sighs, leaning back in his chair with a creak of the wheels, "I feel like I've offended you, Javert. Have I?"



"Professionally, Monsieur?"



The Mayor opens his hands,



"Professionally, unprofessionally, it doesn't matter to me."



"It matters to me, Monsieur! I am a professional!"



The Mayor's hands slowly lower to lay flat on the table. Square, broad, powerful. He stares at Javert in silence, inscrutable.



"Then if we are to do this professionally Inspector I must insist you address me as Monsieur le Mayor."



Javert suppresses a twitch below his eye,



"Forgive me, Monsieur le Mayor, of course you are correct. That is my oversight."



The Mayor does not answer him. Only looks. After a moment he says,



"What have I done to upset you, Inspector - professionally?"



"Nothing, Monsieur le Mayor, I am content in my work."



This seems to touch something in the man because the muscles in his jaw flex and one thick brow twitches,



"Then why do you insist on treating me with such contempt, Inspector? Why do you give me such dark looks? You hunt me as if I am some kind of criminal!"



"Are you?" Javert asks before he can catch his treacherous tongue. 



The Mayor's face pales but Javert is not foolish enough to think it is with fear- it is with rage. He stands slowly, cracking his knuckles as he brings his hands to rest loosely beside his thighs. Some part of Javert's mind makes note of the danger of the situation if this man is indeed Jean Valjean. The Mayor paces round his desk like a great lion, growing broader and thicker as he draws closer until Javert is standing with the man at his chest, staring up at him. His voice is deadly low when he says,



"And what do you expect a man to answer to that question, Inspector?"



"The truth."



"You believe I am a criminal?"



"I did not say that, Monsieur."



"It is Monsieur le Mayor, to you, Inspector!"



Despite his best efforts Javert flinches.



"You are frightened of me?" The Mayor whispers.



"No, Monsieur le Mayor."



"What evidence do you have that I am a criminal? And what crime am I accused of?"



Javert rolls his tongue around his mouth, chewing down the frustration he feels at the next truth he must admit,



"None, Monsieur le Mayor."



"So you treat a superior with such disrespect on what? A hunch? A feeling? You disregard social order-"



"Never!"



"- do not interrupt me!" The Mayor does not shout but he doesn't need to for his voice rolls out of his barrel chest like a tremendous bellow and Javert flinches again.



"-Monsieur," he stumbles out, feeling suddenly very out of control.



"I'm very disappointed by you, Javert. I had heard good things about you. I had heard you were respectful, dutiful, mindful of your place."



"I am, Monsieur!" He hears his voice cry- pathetic! And his nails dig further into his palms as his knuckles turn white, "Please, Monsieur le Mayor!"



"Look at me," the Mayor rumbles and Javert's whole body seems to tremble.



"Monsieur," he hears himself whimper. No better than a little mouse quivering before a cat.



"Look at me. That is an order."



Javert swallows and slowly, agonisingly rolls his eyes down from where they had been glued to the middle distance. They slide down the Mayor's brow and are transfixed by his eyes. It's torture. It's like gazing into Hell itself. He feels himself break before he makes the sounds that signals it: a pathetic throaty keen.



"What do you see when you look at me, Javert?" 



Javert's lips tremble, his breath struggling to form the word,



"P-power."



"Remember that." 



And then the Gorgon's gaze is broken and Javert is staring at the fabric that strains over the man's broad back. 



God help him, he doesn't wait to be dismissed, he flees like a kicked dog, tail between his legs, staggering down the stairs and out into the street wildly looking for somewhere to hide. 



Thankfully it is dark and the streets are mostly empty, and he finds himself a narrow back alley in which to collapse against the wall. His head bangs against the brick and he sinks down to sit, all bony angular knees and his gurning, panting mouth rasping in desperate gulps of breath. He is trembling, pale as a sheet, skin glinting with sweat, straining against his trousers. The dog in him howls to return to the office, crawl on his knees, and lay out on his belly at the Mayor's feet and lick his hand until he is forgiven. - God! He can't stand it! How could any creature such as he be born? What can he do? Even if the man were Jean Valjean would Javert be strong enough to arrest him? He releases a long desperate, pathetic groan, grinding the back of his head against the brick. And even if the man were Valjean, if he were to command Javert like that would he not give himself to him all the same? He squeezes his eyes closed but in the darkness all he can see is what might happen if the Mayor were to find him here, now, and his shame grows greater.



He trembles through his thoughts all the next day tugging and wrenching at his hair and sideburns interchangeably, chewing his nails until they're broken and the beds are raw. He cannot make up his mind and he feels he is drowning in the waters of indecision. Where had his belief that the Mayor was Valjean come from? One wet dream. How could he have committed so fully to it! At the same time, why would the idea have captured him so if it weren't true? He had no evidence. He had watched him and still he had no evidence! Did that mean there was no evidence or that the criminal was too cunning to let it be found? 



These questions undermined the quality of his work and he cursed himself as he hunched over paperwork he couldn't bring himself to fill, too distracted wavering between faith in his own abilities and the desire to enable his selfish interest in the sacred figure of the Mayor. He wanted the man to be good, he wanted the man to be pure. He was not religious but in him remained a desire to worship; to worship the Law and as its figurehead the just and righteous Mayor Madeleine. But it is dangerous to want things and more dangerous to want so greatly that you will commit to a delusion. He was nowhere near finding a solution to his problem when the demon came to him again in the form of a ringing telephone.



He doesn’t know who’s on the other side of the line and so he picks it up with confidence and without fear,



“Hello?”



The Mayor’s low, soft voice immediately rips that confidence from him and he clenches his hand against the table,



“Hello, Inspector,” he says.



“Monsieur Mayor,” Javert replies, voice firm and sure, “what can I do for you?”



“For me, Inspector, nothing. But for Montreuil-Sur-Mer? A small thing.”



“And what is that?”



“Meet with me, make peace with me. It is weighing on my mind that we cannot work together efficiently because of a foolish personal disagreement.”



It was foolish. Javert was glad his office door was closed and no one could see his flush of embarrassment. 



“What are you suggesting?”



“A work social, of sorts. Just, two gentlemen conversing and… overcoming their differences.”



“You would tolerate my company after I have insulted you so?”



There was a pause and then a gruff,



“Yes. For the sake of Montreuil-Sur-Mer.”



“Very well. Then when and where should I meet you?”



“Give me your address and I will pick you up this evening at half seven.”



Javert did just that, embarrassed that it was such a poor part of town and then hung up. He stood in silence, hand clenching and unclenching against the tabletop as he turned the thoughts in his mind. No matter which way he looked at it he could not figure out what the Mayor might mean by work social. Usually, those things were parties but his tone had suggested something extremely different. Perhaps an interrogation then? That Javert could prepare for, that Javert could understand. He steeled himself.



He left work a little earlier than usual and let his feet take him home. He thought of nothing on the walk home, mind hardening itself in preparation for whatever sacrifices he might have to make that evening. In his small apartment, he showered, combed and styled his hair, and without thinking about the implications picked out a flattering outfit: black skinny jeans, a black band shirt and a black leather jacket. Looking in the mirror he felt he looked suitably fierce and stern. Javert sits at the small window, curtain quirked to one side so that he is concealed from the street below but able to watch for the Mayor’s vehicle. He doesn’t know what to expect and is surprised when he sees it: it’s some sort of old, second-hand Ford. It’s not a piece of shit but it’s certainly not the kind of thing you would expect of a man of the Mayor’s position. This again seems strange to him. He knows that it would be the kind of car a man would drive if he wished to go unnoticed. He only realises it is the Mayor because of the extremely thick arm that rests out of the window. He heads downstairs and avoids eye contact instead turning his back and focusing on locking the door before keeping his eyes set in the middle distance as the opens the passenger side door and gets in. When he finally turns his head to look at the Mayor from the corner of one eye he finds himself being watched with a cool, emotionless smile. The car suddenly feels very small, especially with the extremely large man squashed into it beside him.



“Do you have somewhere in mind you want to go?” the Mayor says, and Javert is struck again by how impossibly handsome he is. 



“No, I had no expectations. I thought you would have somewhere planned.”



“Oh, I do. I just wanted to give you the option to get out of it.” His smile moves to something more… expressive but Javert feels it’s more of the look of a hungry lion than a friend. 



He conceals his growing anxiety as the car pulls away. They pull onto a main road he doesn’t recognise and he realises that he is being taken out of Montreuil-Sur-Mer,



“Where are we going?”



“Calais.”



“Why?”



“It’s neutral ground.”



Javert swallows. 



They drive in an uncomfortable silence. The Mayor’s sat-nav the only voice.



“I’ve never been there before,” he says,



“Where?”



“You’ll see.”



Javert sticks to watching the lights flash past on the motorway. The Mayor’s hands flex on the steering wheel and he says,



“Can I ask- non-confrontationally- what exactly about me you find so suspicious?”



Javert swallows,



“I think it’s best if-”



“I think if it’s best you just tell me. Air your dirty laundry.”



Javert keeps his face turned away, chewing on his bottom lip.



“Fine. But you’ll think me foolish.”



The Mayor actually laughs at that,



“Sure.”



“Firstly, it is the fact that you are so private. You are a wealthy, handsome, powerful man and yet you have no friends, no potential lovers or courters. You seem to have no desire to make use of your position for personal gain. You must concede that is strange?”



“Yes, maybe. If you’re nosey. But not illegal.”



“No, not illegal. I am much the same way,” he says before he can consider what he means by that. The Mayor takes notice because he flicks him an unreadable look, “Besides that,” Javert continues, “You live well below your means. Your vehicle for example, is non-descript: perfect for going unnoticed. You know how I feel about your issues with the police so I will skip that. Most strange to me is that I have found, when I looked into you-”



“You’ve been looking into me?”



“You must have known.”



“I suspected.”



“I found that when you arrived in town there was a fire. You claimed that your important information- passport etc had all been destroyed in this fire. Very well, a strange circumstance but there would be digital copies of your information. You ended up taking over a week to supply the government with the information they needed to look you up on their servers and give you new copies of your paperwork. Why? Why take so long?”



He turned to the Mayor then but the man just gave a half-hearted shrug.



“I wasn’t in a rush, I’d just been in a fire. I was more concerned with my health and finding somewhere to stay.” 



“Again strange: the flat you rented. I spoke to the owner and they said you paid in cash. So, your ID was destroyed but your cash miraculously unharmed?”



The Mayor shrugged again, infuriatingly,



“You don’t have anything to say?” Javert demanded



“No,” the Mayor replied, “I’m not an Inspector, I’m not used to having to figure out theories.”



“I don’t want theories,” Javert said, “I want answers.”



They drove in silence after that.



They eventually pull into a car park and the Mayor leads him through several streets until they come to a building with a flag outside. Javert’s stomach immediately drops. The sound of thumping music can be heard easily from outside and he hates loud noise. But that’s not the biggest problem, the biggest problem is that the flag is a pride flag. Unmistakable. Does the Mayor know? Is this a trap to lure him into doing something unprofessional? He balks,



“Ah?”



The Mayor turns and fixes him with a look, his smile hard,



“You wanted to know why a powerful, wealthy man might be single and concerned with his privacy?”



Javert grinds his teeth because of course. Of course. One answer at least, but it brings up another even more ridiculous question to the surface of Javert’s mind. If the Mayor is attracted to men, could he be attracted to Javert? It’s a stupid question and he quashes it immediately, focussing on steeling himself for the pain of the loud music as he follows the Mayor inside.



It's as bad as he imagined and he curls up on himself, gritting his teeth. The Mayor leads him to the bar and leans over it to order drinks. It is then Javert notices how nicely his simple boot-cut jeans hug the swell of his arse. He tries to ignore that fact but the thickness of the Mayor’s thighs filling his jeans, and the way his shirt hugs his broad chest and narrow waist make it very hard to gather let alone control his thoughts. He turns to Javert and beckons him and Javert hopes desperately that he can’t see in his face just how attractive he finds him. They sit together at the bar, Javert grimacing at the slight stickiness of the seat and the extreme stickiness of the floor. There’s a dancefloor full of gyrating bodies only ten feet away and the Mayor’s knees nearly bump his as he turns on his stool to push a drink toward Javert.



“What is it?” Javert shouts over the music. The Mayor leans towards him and shouts back,



“Just drink it.”



Javert grimaces,



“I don’t drink.”



“Me neither, but we’ll make an exception tonight or it’ll be painfully uncomfortable for both of us. Don’t leave me drinking alone.”



Javert frowns and the Mayor leans in towards him until he is almost speaking into Javert’s ear. His voice drops a few octaves, stern and commanding,



“Drink it.”



Javert tips the drink back and swallows it in one go, coughing and spluttering horribly. The Mayor chuckles and pats him on the knee, a fact that almost completely distracts Javert from noticing that he has placed his own full drink back on the bar counter. He raises his fingers and orders them two more and 



“Chasers.”



“What is a chaser?” Javert coughs,



“Just orange juice,” he says, “Don’t worry.” 



Javert is too busy coughing and trying to get the horrible taste out of his mouth. The Mayor hands him a second drink,



“You know so much about me, Javert, I feel disarmed.”



He doesn’t look disarmed, his chest and arms are massive. Javert motions to his biceps and says,



“You don’t look ‘disarmed’.”



The Mayor actually smiles at that, a real smile,



“You tell jokes, Javert? I didn’t know that.”



“Occasionally, but I’m very private about it.”



The Mayor leans forward again, that smile fading into something more insincere,



“You strike me as a man who values privacy, Javert.”



Javert gets his point,



“Not as much as I value truth.”



One thick brow raises at that and the Mayor turns and picks up his drink clinking it against Javert’s glass,



“Cheers,” he says and Javert is compelled to drink again.



It’s hitting him hard, not just because he’s an infrequent drinker but because whatever it is incredibly strong. He coughs and chokes again on it and the Mayor claps him heartily on the arm. When he clears the water from his eyes, he finds himself woozy and lightheaded. The Mayor is grinning at him, haloed by the disco lights and a fine perspiration is gathering on his forehead and more importantly seeping through the front of his shirt. Javert finds himself inexorably drawn down to that chest again, huge, bulging muscle fighting against the thin fabric. It’s not that it’s a tight shirt, he can tell from the way the hem hangs, his breasts are just so tremendously gigantic that the shirt can’t hold them. Javert wonders if the Mayor ever bursts the buttons on his work shirt and what it would look like to watch those bulging pecs swell from within. He swallows, and when he drags his eyes away it’s only to take the extremely small glass of orange juice from the Mayor’s meaty hand and down it. It doesn’t really help. 



“Are you alright?” he asks, and Javert looks up at him wide-eyed. He seems to be concerned, heavy brows drawn down low, he leans in until Javert can smell the sweat on his skin,



“Are you alright? You don’t look ok.”



“I don’t know.”



The Mayor draws back from a second then leans in again sending another distracting wave of sweat and man-spell over Javert in a way that makes him dizzy.



“You’re very pale,” he says.



Javert just stares at him.



The Mayor leans forward and says,



“Why do you hate me? Really?”



“I don’t,” Javert manages.



“What do you really think of me then?” he replies.



Javert panics the words ‘breastbreastbreasts’ blur around in his mind he manages to cough and then much to his surprise vomits down the front of his nice shirt. 



“Oh my god,” the Mayor gasps standing up, “What’s wrong? Are you on any medications?”



“Yes.”



“What?”



“Antidepressants and acne medication.”



“Can you drink on those?”



“I don’t know.”



“Fuck,” he whispers and Javert can only tell he says it because he’s hypnotised by the movement of his gentle pink lips as he forms the word. 



“Do you think you can stand up and come outside with me?” The Mayor asks, leaning toward him,



“Yes,” Javert replies, and in a moment which will be the second worst thing that ever happens to Javert in his entire life, the Mayor brings a hand up and pats him on the cheek,



“Good boy,” he says and Javert is immediately the hardest he has ever been in his life.



He blinks, gulps, and then realises that he has agreed to stand up, an act which now seems to him to be the worst possible thing he could ever do. The Mayor’s strong hands reach under Javert’s armpits and take the decision out of his hands as he lifts him to his feet. Thankfully he is too busy staring at Javert’s face to notice the incredibly obvious bulge in his trousers and he brings Javert to his side, supporting him with one arm.



They’re stopped at the door by the bouncer who places one hand on Javert’s chest,



“Do you know this man,” he says motioning to the Mayor and Javert nods. The bouncer seems unconvinced. He is vaguely aware of the two of them talking about him and then the bouncer asks,



“What’s your name?”



“Javert.”



“How did you get here?”



“He brought me.”



Finally, the bouncer nods and lets them out into the blessedly cold night air. They stagger into the opening of an alley and the Mayor leans Javert up against the cool brick wall.



“You look terrible,” he says,



“I’m sorry,” Javert fumbles out,



“Don’t apologise.”



“I’ll get vomit in your car.”



“Don’t worry about it. Honestly, this is my fault,”



Javert curls over on himself and the Mayor’s broad, strong hand finds its way to his back resting there, grounding him and rubbing soothing circles between his shoulder blades. After a moment or two Javert throws up again.



“There, there,” the Mayor says, “Get it all out. I’m so sorry. I haven’t even learned anything about you.”



“What do you want to know?” Javert asks, “Why do you care? I’m not even important.”



“You are important,” the Mayor says, “I’m really sorry about how everything has gone. I really do want to try and make this better. I shouldn’t have pressured you to drink.”



“It’s my fault,” Javert says, “I could have said no.”



“No, it is my fault, I brought you out here to get you drunk. I really meant to pressure you to drink all along. I’m so sorry. I really, I don’t know, I thought I could get you drunk and then maybe you’d open up to me. It was very spiteful of me, it came from a bad place. I should be better.”



Javert nods and throws up again,



“You’re a piece of shit.”



“Yeah,” the Mayor says and Javert inexplicably feels bad about it,



“You asked me what I thought,” he says, staggering upright, “I think… I want to think you’re a good man,” He says. 



There’s a pause as the floor moves and then he stumbles forward, the Mayor catches him and he lands with his hands on the man’s chest. His huge, glorious chest. He squeezes those big glorious pecs before he can even think about it.



“Uh, look. Do you think you’re going to throw up anymore?” the Mayor asks.



Javert looks in his eyes and it’s painful,



“Why do you help people? What do you want?”



The Mayor shrugs,



“To feel like I deserve their love and trust, I suppose.”



Javert leans in and finds his lips and nose bumping into the side of Madeline’s face. He realises with horror that the man has quickly turned his face away.



“Don’t,” the Mayor murmurs and Javert staggers back, falling against the wall.



“You’re drunk,” the Mayor says, holding his hand out to him. He looks… he looks at Javert with pity.



“Don’t pity me!” Javert snarls



“I’m not!”



“You are!”



“I’m not! I’m pitying myself! I’ve put you in this situation and I’m feeling guilty I did. Look, you’re not thinking straight, you’re drunk. I’m your boss, remember that. You’re too professional for this. Let me get you home.”



Javert concedes and allows himself to be practically carried to the car. He’s deposited into the passenger seat and at some point, blessedly passes out.



He wakes up to the flashing of lights across a black background. They’re on the motorway. He winds the Ford’s window down and promptly vomits out of the window splashing sick all along the side and back door of the car. The Mayor sighs beside him.



“Sorry,” Javert mumbles,



“Don’t apologise,” Madeline responds, “I told you: this is my fault. Considering you vomiting on my car God’s penance.”



“That didn’t come out of God, that came out of me.”



The soft chuckle is heavenly to his ears. He rests back against his seat, the cold wind whipping his hair and chilling him pleasingly.



“What did you want to know?” Javert asks,



“What?” 



“What did you feel like you had to get me drunk to get me to tell you?”



“Anything,” he shrugs, “I just don’t understand you. Anything about you. You’re an enigma. One minute we’re ok, the next minute you hated me. Who are you? Where did you come from? You’ve changed so much about Montreuil-Sur-Mer already and it’s only been a few months.”



Javert shrugs,



“You want to know that I’m a bastard? That I grew up in an orphanage?”



Madeline lets out a soft breath of amusement,



“You don’t have to be dramatic.”



“I’m not!” Javert snaps and the man’s face falls,



“Oh,” he says, “Oh, I’m sorry.”



“Don’t be.”



“I didn’t mean for you, I meant for being rude.”



“Whatever. I’m used to rudeness. I don’t value niceness.”



They drive in silence for a little while, Javert’s eyes drifting closed for short periods of time,



“Where,” the Mayor tries again, “Where did you work before this?”



“Paris. Before that a prison in Toulon. I was a guard. You could say it gave me a lot of experience in recognising prisoners.”



The Mayor gives a nervous chuckle,



“You’re saying that’s why you’re suspicious of me?”



“I don’t know,” Javert answers, and he means it. He lets his eyes drift closed.



“I thought so,” he says, “But now I’m too drunk to say.”



“Ah.”



Everything fades into darkness again. He wakes to find the Mayor’s face only a few inches from his and he wonders again what it would feel like to kiss those soft full lips and feel that heavy moustache tickle his lip. 



“We’re here,” the Mayor says, “Are you ok?”



“Yes,” Javert grunts.



“Do you need help getting indoors?”



“No.” 



He opens the door and swings his leg out, standing up. He almost immediately topples over and only the Mayor’s hand grabbing the back of his trousers stops him from falling face first onto the pavement. The Mayor pulls him back to sit in the car and gets out of the driver’s side. In a moment he’s in front of Javert and Javert is staring at his hard, flat stomach. He leans down and lifts Javert again under his arms and swings Javert’s arm over his shoulder. They hobble to the door together and Javert fumbles with his keys until the Mayor takes them from him and opens the door. He practically carries Javert upstairs and Javert is struck with a feeling of shame at the smallness and dinginess of his flat. 



“Where’s the bedroom?”



Javert motions him to the door and the Mayor pushes it open, staggers them to the bed and then lowers Javert down to lie on it. He lifts Javert’s feet onto the bed and unzips his boots for him.



“Here,” he says, “sit up. Let’s take that jacket off.”



Javert struggles out of his jacket and then the Mayor’s coarse hands are on the hem of his shirt,



“And let’s get this off.”



Javert lets him lift it over his head without thinking, his nose assaulted by the smell of drying sick, and then he flops back down onto the bed. The figure of the Mayor disappears out of the bedroom door and then Javert is falling asleep to the sound of running water.



Javert awakes suddenly in the morning light, panicked and discombobulated. The first thing he does is reach for the zip of his trousers, then he freezes. He feels fine. He feels fine. Nothing had been done to him. He rests his head back on the pillow heaving great breaths of relief. How many women had he watched be plied with alcohol by guards only so that they would be unable or unwilling to defend their dignity. He had promised himself he would never be foolish enough to entrust himself undefended into the hands of a man, but here he was and… and he was safe. The feeling crashes over him: relief. He is a good man. Then the memory of the Mayor’s words appear: he is a bad man. He had purposely intoxicated Javert. Why? Because Javert was so hard and intolerant; so impossible to reach and connect with like a normal human being.



“It’s not my fault,” he says out loud, “He made that horrible choice. Not me.”



Still. When he’d realised Javert was unwell he had brought him home. 



Did that make him a good man or a bad man? The thought, and the hangover, made Javert’s headache so he staggered out of bed and to the bathroom. Halfway through a massive piss, he noticed his nice shirt washed clean of sick hanging over the towel rail. He had even washed Javert’s shirt. That twinged something strange in Javert’s chest and he felt the corner of his lip twitching up into the smile. He felt… complicated. His feelings for the Mayor had been complicated, now they felt even more complicated. 



He showered, drank several mugs of coffee, and then realised he was incredibly late for work. He immediately grew angry, and then immediately went into the bathroom again and threw up after drinking and eating nothing for over 12 hours except coffee, orange juice, and alcohol. He slumped back down on the bed and gave up on going into work, emailing in to say that he was unwell and would come in in the afternoon. Instead, he rifled through the kitchen cupboards and found he had no food. It wasn’t really a surprise. Much to his chagrin he ordered takeaway and sat on his bed eating Chinese at eleven in the morning. 



He had tried to kiss the Mayor.



The thought made him choke on his noodles and he coughed a mouthful of them all over the floor.



He had tried to kiss the Mayor.



The Mayor had said No.



The Mayor had said he’d said No because Javert was drunk. Gentlemanly.



He had said No because he was Javert’s boss. Professional.



He had not said No because he didn’t find Javert attractive. It was incredibly unlikely. The man was ungodly attractive and Javert was, he knew quite well, ugly. But, maybe the Mayor had terrible taste? He did have a shitty old car so it was possible. 



He chewed mechanically on his noodles and then dumped the rest in the trash, getting on his knees to clean the carpet, head empty of thoughts. When he’d finished, he perched back on the bed, head still completely blank, and finally realised he hadn’t checked his mobile for a reply from work. There was a reply, it absolved him of his sin of not arriving early. There was also a text from an unknown number:



I hope you don’t mind but I got your mobile number from your work. Just wanted to say I’m sorry again. X



Who was X? Oh, he realised very slowly that X wasn’t a person. He flopped back on his bed, staring wide-eyed at the ceiling. 



God, he hoped the Mayor was a good man.



“If you’re real, God,” he said, “Please make the Mayor a good man. I have never asked for anything and I have never gotten anything from you. Make the Mayor a good man.”


Things get better. Things get better than they even were in fact. Javert has decided to have faith: he will believe the Mayor is a good person. It's a risk, but for once in his life he wants to take a risk. He feels brave. He treats the Mayor with respect and courtesy and the Mayor's shy discomfort warms again into genuine kindness. He blesses Javert with his smiles once more and Javert is unmoored by just how much he's missed them. They go for their walks again, meeting by 'coincidence' as Javert makes his patrols. The Mayor sends the police station a large quantity of pastries in reward for their hard work. Javert, disliking leaving debts unpaid, spots a little soapstone elephant in a window of an antiques shop and for some reason buys it and has it couriered to the Mayor's office. He receives a text in the evening,

Thank you. He's lovely x

It's all very strange and the weeks pass in a blur as they drink coffee outside the cafe and throw bread crusts for pigeons. It's quiet and subdued and Javert likes that. He likes feeling comfortable. He likes feeling important. 

One evening he receives another text,

Are you busy tomorrow? Do you want to come to another work social? X

He texts back,

It's the weekend, I'm never busy. Where?

I don't know. Wherever you want. Tell me tomorrow. I'll pick you up at 10? X

It's surprisingly early and Javert wonders if he has plans for the evening or if for some mad reason he wants them to spend the whole day together. A little wriggly bud of hope is growing in his chest and he subdues it,

Sure.

 

The shitty Ford, with two clean doors, pulls up almost exactly at ten. Javert bangs and thumps his way down the stairs. He's wearing his jeans, black shirt, and black jacket combo again and he completely unintentionally flicks his hair as he locks up the front door and also unintentionally tries to jog attractively to the passenger side door. When he gets in his says,

"Go to the beach?"

The Mayor grimaces and Javert's heart sinks,

"Sorry," he says, "I have some bad memories associated with the seaside. Can we go somewhere else."

"Yes," he says, "but somewhere quiet this time. I hate loud noise."

"Oh! Sorry! Another thing I need to apologise for."

"Don't apologise," Javert grumbles as they pull into the road. 

The Mayor's hands twist on the steering wheel and he shoots Javert a nervous-looking half smile,

"Maybe we could go to the woods?"

Javert turns to look out the window so he can hide his answering smile in the palm of his hand,

"Sure."

 

Time has no meaning in the woods and they meander together in a comfortable silence, smiling at the birdsong and the dappled light on the leaves strewn on the ground. It's quiet but not lonely and Javert thinks again of running off to live in the woods and how much nicer it might be to live as a two. As they walk side by side his hand itches to link its fingers with the Mayor's, and that great bud in his chest grows bigger and bigger until he feels he could burst. He's happy he realises, and it doesn't scare him. He flicks his eyes to the right and catches the Mayor smiling at him.

"You know, in my head I call you The Mayor."

Madeleine's smile grows into a grin,

"Really? You've forgotten my name?"

"No, it's not that," Javert says gruffly, suddenly feeling embarrassed, "it's just out of respect." 

He flushes and turns away as the Mayor chuckles,

"That's cute. You know, I still don't know your first name?"

Javert smirks, sliding his eyes over to him,

"Yes, you do," he says smugly.

The Mayor frowns and then looks worried,

"I don't? Did you tell me and I forgot?"

Javert's smirk grows into an awkward toothy grin,

"It's Javert."

"Javert is your surname?" The Mayor answers, brow creased in confusion.

"Yes, but it's also my forename. I only have one name."

"Really!" The Mayor cries,

"Yes," Javert grins, "I changed my name by deed poll. Don't ask. Anyway," he says idly, "my name isn't really Javert."

At this the Mayor laughs, almost stumbling over a sly root that has arced from the ground,

"Really?"

"Really."

"Then what is it?"

"Jagvir."

"Jagvir," the Mayor echoes, rolling the name around in his mouth, "is it… Hindu?"

"Yes. My mother was Hindu. She named me Jagvir, but the gu-" he catches himself before he can say guards, "doctors wrote my name wrong on the birth certificate."

"And when you changed your name, you never corrected it?"

"No. I'm used to it. A dog doesn't like to learn a new name if it can help it."

They walk again in a comfortable silence, hands deep in their pockets to avoid temptation. 

"The little elephant," the Mayor says, a slight flush on his cheeks from the brisk air, "it's a little Indian elephant."

Javert hums in agreement. Maybe it is, he hadn't really looked. 

"I like elephants," the Mayor says, his boots crunching over the leaves, "how did you know?"

"I didn't."

"I like the way the little ones hold their parents' tails." 

It's a silly and inane direction of conversation but when the Mayor asks, 

"Do you like elephants?"

Javert answers,

"I don't know. I've never thought about it," and he's being genuine.

"What's your favourite animal?"

"Probably a wolf," he says, "but sometimes a tiger." 

They find themselves approaching the parking lot and the Mayor says, 

"Let's get lunch," like it's the natural continuation of their day and not the most exceptional thing to ever happen to Javert.

"Wait," Javert says as they approach the Mayor's car, "What's your forename?"

The Mayor pauses and then turns,

"Ah, didn't you look me up?"

"Yes."

"So you know."

"I… to be honest I didn't notice."

The Mayor grins at him and shakes his head as he gets into the car.

They do spend the whole day together. They get lunch in a little cafe, then they go to the park where the Mayor gets Javert to push him on the swings. Then they get ice-cream, then they rent one of those little boats that looks like a swan and they peddle it out onto the lake and almost capsize it and it's the stupidest thing Javert has ever done. He spends the whole day basking in Madeleine's smile and doesn't think once about the fact that they have both been studiously ignoring the attempted kiss. When the evening comes, they go to a Chinese restaurant and Javert almost suggests they get takeout and eat it at his apartment before he realises that the inevitable next slide of that movie is him trying to kiss the Mayor again. He wants to. He wants to desperately. It takes every ounce of willpower to watch the wind tousle the man's hair, and the way he tugs up his scarf to hide his smile, and the way his green eyes twinkle in the orange illumination of the restaurant lantern that hangs over the door. He resists kissing him only because he's terrified of losing him. He almost did before, he realises that now, and the thought sends a stab of dread through him. They eat in the restaurant in a booth, hunched over their food, eating in a hungry silence. Madeleine even reaches over his fork and skewers a piece of chicken right off Javert's plate and Javert lets him because in that moment, captivated by those eyes, there's nothing he'd like more than to surrender all his chicken, and everything he has, and himself too. 

He's down. He's down bad. And he realises that as they pay and make their way back to the car, through the cold parking lot. What will happen now? He thinks. The day has been like a dream, but the kiss never happened and neither of them had tried to make it happen. Will this be it? One magical day? He feels the beginnings of panic stir in him and then Madeleine is stopping by the car door and smiling at him,

"You know, Javert, I've been meaning to say…" he brings up a big paw to rub the back of his neck, "um, I just wanted to say how nice it's been spending time together."

Javert flushes and hopes he can play it off as the cold night air.

"It's just," the Mayor continues, "I'd really like to do this again."

That little bud of hope bursts into bloom on Javert's chest,

"Me too," he says breathlessly.

The Mayor grins, "Great! I really like having you as a friend, Javert."

It feels like being shot. The bloom in his chest shrivels. The whole world goes mute as he watches the Mayor get into his car. It takes Javert a few moments to stutter and start again, walking mechanically around the car to get into the passenger seat.

I like you as a friend.

He's never had a friend, he's always wanted a friend - until now. Now hearing that Madeleine sees him as a friend is like being shot, punched, and getting kicked in the balls simultaneously. He feels like he's been a victim of a social experiment designed to test the effects of breaking a lonely autistic man's heart. He swallows heavily and stays very still, looking out the window the whole way home.

As he gets out Madeleine touches his arm,

"Are you ok? You've been really quiet."

"I'm fine," he lies, "I'm just burnt out. It's been a big day."

He can tell Madeleine doesn't believe him but he nods and lets Javert go to his door and unlock it anyway. As the car pulls away down the street Javert realises he still doesn't know the man's first name.

The pain dulls with time to a dull throb in his heart when they are together. Still, he cannot give up that time and he realises with horror that he has become as much of an addict as any other man who gives up his life to a drug. He comes to the realisation as the Autumn fades into winter that he is deluding himself. He cannot be satisfied by friendship. It is impossible. It is not friendship with the Mayor he thinks of as he thrusts himself down on his vibrator or up into his fist. He wants him desperately and to hide that behind a veil feels manipulative, disingenuous; like he is using the time they spend together in the guise of friendship only to fuel his lonely sexual fantasies. He doesn’t want to live this lie. He decides, one cool evening that he will confess. He will go to the Mayor’s office after work and petition him for his love. He won’t be drunk this time, he won’t stink of vomit, he won’t even try to kiss him, he will merely tell him, lay it out exactly as it is: that he wants him and, although he has fought it, it is not a battle he can win. They will become lover’s or… he does not want to consider the alternative. This is rolling around in his mind as he follows his usual evening route, taking his time, frightened to face the inevitable, when he is disturbed by cries. He increases his pace, becoming aware of the shouting of a man, and turns to the corner to find a woman assaulting a gentleman. It is a gentleman he knows well, and one he holds in low esteem, but it is without question that the woman he is fighting with is a prostitute and so at fault. He arrests her, ignoring her pleas, her denials, her weeping. The gentleman is trying to spin him some nonsense tale which he equally ignores as it is quite obvious what had been occurring when the entire tableau is interrupted by a booming cry,

“Stop!”

Javert freezes and looks up,

“Monsieur!” he cries, baffled as to why the Mayor would find himself in such an insalubrious location. It is more baffling that the Mayor is dressed so unlike himself, overlarge khaki trousers, a thick jumper, and a large, shapeless duffel coat. He is barely recognisable.

“God, Inspector, calm yourself, you’re being too rough on the poor woman.”

“Monsieur,” Javert says, “she is a prostitute and that is a crime. She is resisting arrest. She will rest calmly in a cell, I’m sure.”

This doesn’t placate the Mayor and Javert finds himself rankled by the man’s resistance to the police force and the law,

“Release her, Javert. She is clearly unwell, let me take her to a hospital and in the morning you can question her.”

“I don’t need to question her, Monsieur, I know exactly what happened.”

“How?”

“You doubt my experience?”

“The only omnipotent being is God, Javert.”

Javert finds his hackles raising against his will. The loud-mouthed moron is still flapping his tongue about how he was simply walking along when he was suddenly attacked without provocation. The Mayor is ignoring him as solidly as Javert is, instead focusing his fierce look on Javert alone. Suddenly, the woman lunges forward hawking a mouthful of foul black spit on the Mayor’s jacket. She screams something but cannot get it out before Javert is throwing her to the ground, wrenching her arms in a mad rage. He opens his mouth to bark and then a pair of strong arms are grabbing him by his shoulders and throwing him onto his back,

“Enough!” the Mayor roars, “I will not be a witness to police brutality! You should be ashamed of yourself, Javert! And you, the greasy thug,” he snarls, turning on the supposed victim, “Get yourself out of my sight!”

Javert lies on his back staring, heaving great gasping breathes, eyes wide with disbelief. The man has fled and the crowd that had gathered has dispersed, at least to a safe distance. The Mayor is like a force of nature, fearsome and trembling with suppressed rage. He takes the woman gently by the arm and removes her handcuffs,

“Speak to her in the hospital, Inspector,” he snarls, and then he turns and marches the fearful woman away.

Javert remains on the floor, staring into the grey swirling clouds as the snowflakes begin to fall. They land small and cold on his face, melting in the heat.

Eventually, he gathers himself up and goes home. His head is in too much of a disarray to write a report or visit the hospital. When he gets in, he locks up as quickly as possible and is grateful that he had left the windows closed. It is getting powerfully cold and although the flat is only three small rooms it seems to leak heat. He goes to bed under three or four blankets and lies awake, staring at the wall, his slow breaths accompanied by the rattle of chains.

The next day is worse. He doesn’t get a chance to confront the woman or Mayor at the hospital. The Mayor comes to him and they get into a terrible shouting match in the middle of the police station. It is a disaster and begins in a great outburst as though it has been building for years. What is it with them? Javert cannot understand, it seems that there is some age-old hurt that festers beneath a relationship of only a few months. He does not even have any friends or experience to draw upon and so when the Mayor leaves he locks himself in his office and slams his hands on the desk and swipes away the papers on his desk and bellows and snarls his frustration and then collapses in a heap on the floor. The rotting bud in his chest has developed a splinter and it digs into him as he sits, screwed up on the floor. He cannot understand it. He cannot understand the vitriol, the obvious desire in the Mayor to shame and disgrace Javert in front of his peers and inferiors. Is it not shame enough to be paid a pittance for his hard work? To be made to live in squalor, to be constantly cavorting with criminals in the pursuit of evidence or knowledge. His whole life is one shame building on another. He bangs his feet and hands on the floor like a child and then feels immediate embarrassment at the outburst. The wolf in him growls soothingly. It tells him that he should not feel shame, that this is the curse of being an old beast from another time forced to live amongst men. That he is not made for this type of world and that they cannot conform to him. It tells him to trust his nose, to trust his hunter’s instinct. To rip the throat out of the ungrateful Mayor and tear his body with his claws. You are covered in scars, it tells him, because you are strong and never back away from a battle. Make him regret crossing you.

He decides to crush this woman Fantine.

He broods and muses on why the Mayor might be so concerned with this whore’s welfare and he begins to question everything. Is it possible that the Mayor has purposely misled him? That he is not gay but bisexual, that the woman is some kind of lover or tool? He had believed that the Mayor did not have any vices and the Mayor had encouraged this belief, perhaps it is not true. Perhaps his vice is to lure weak individuals into his trusting him and then disgrace and shame them? It would explain the state of the woman. He finds that the woman has a daughter and investigates her age. It is possible the daughter is the Mayors. The thought fills him with a rage so bitter he almost wants to vomit. He is wasting police time he knows, persecuting this woman, but, God, it feels good when he pictures the pain on the Mayor’s face.

They do not communicate with each other and there is no attempt at apology making this time. He is almost ready to pounce when the worst happens

They are avoiding each other, standing on the opposite sides of a street when a Jeep comes barrelling down the road. It’s a massive thing with huge off-road tires and a bunch of ridiculous additions to the roof and back, and extra’s designed to make it look more impressive than its owner’s tiny cock. It is going over the speed limit and swerving and, in a moment, before anyone can react, it hits a man, driving him under the wheels as it comes to a crashing halt against the outside of a little bakery.

“My God!” he hears himself cry and he runs to the car, yanking open the driver’s side door, pulls the driver out, flinging him to the ground and slaps some handcuffs on him, “You are under arrest for reckless driving!”

Then he hears the Mayor’s voice,

“He is still alive! Get a jack!”

He follows the voice around the back of the car where he finds the victim pinned beneath the huge wheel. He is obviously a dead man but is groaning weakly and moving. The Mayor is casting frantically about for someone to do something but the people are being the people: pathetic and useless.

“I will call an ambulance,” Javert says and pulls out his phone,

“Thank you,” the Mayor says breathless and hardly acknowledging him. Then he does something very strange. He shucks of his jacket and positions himself in a squat with his arm around the massive tire.

Javert stares at him in a stunned silence as someone takes his phone from his hand and begins telling the ambulance dispatcher the name of the street. He finds himself struck by an odd feeling of familiarity that hits him in the stomach, forcing all of the air out of him. He refuses to believe it up until he can deny it no more: in the moment when the Mayor lifts the car. Two men rush in and drag the man out from below it. For only an instant the Mayor’s eyes- Valjean’s eyes- meet Javert’s and then he turns his face away and grabs his jacket hurrying up the street. Javert watches him go, only half-heartedly taking his phone back from the helpful citizen. He should feel absolved. He feels devastated.

He writes his email that night and then deletes it. He writes it again and sends it before he can delete it again. Then he sits in the dark of his office, staring at the black computer screen. 

In the darkness of his flat he sits against the wall, his head in his hands and feels the wolf move beneath his skin. He had thought that he had left the prison behind but when he rolls his eyes back in his head he sees those walls and those metal doors. He trembles as he approaches that grey metal door and peers through the little slit window. Inside echoes the rattle of chains. The yellow eyes approach, sliding through the darkness, and he stares into them, paralysed, until he realises he is looking at his own reflection.

When he opens his eyes, he finds himself standing in the rain outside of the Mayor’s house. It is always like this. He has never been here but the wolf knows the way. The wolf takes him where he needs to go. The wolf is at his back now, he feels it, he hears the way the rain is muffled as it falls on its fur. He approaches the Mayor’s front door, feet thumping on the slick stone steps and bangs on the door with one fist. There’s a brief pause and then the man opens the door. He stares at Javert and for a second his eyes slide to look over Javert’s shoulder and he feels he can see the wolf too. He steps aside and allows Javert in. The house is dark except for the light of a distant fireplace in the living room. They stand in silence in the hallway, the only sound the gentle drip of the rainwater from Javert’s coat. Javert stares at the carpet. He can’t pick out the colour in the dark. He can see the shadow of Valjean’s chains slide across the floor.  Javert slams him against the wall and he knows, as he clenches his fists in the man’s shirt, that he is letting him do it. He could rip Javert’s arm out of the socket if he wanted to, but he melds his body to the wall, all give as Javert’s presses up against his front.

“Are you happy?” Javert snarls, “You gave up Eden for a whore!”

Valjean says nothing.

The wolf is no longer outside the door. The wolf is inside Javert and he feels it distort his spine and make his muscles spasm. He thrusts in to kiss Valjean and he turns his face away again,

“Don’t,” Valjean whispers, “It’s not right.”

And it’s not right: neither of them have been honest about who they are. Javert snarls and presses his bared teeth to the coarse skin of Valjean’s cheek, scraping over the five o’clock shadow. The thick jugular vein is just a few inches below and he sees himself bite and rip but he pulls away instead.

He whispers, “Goodbye, Valjean.”

Then turns flinging open the door and fleeing out into the night. The wolf accompanies him, slipping in and out of the shadows and the streetlamps. He staggers to a stop in front of the police station, hair and clothes soaked to his body. He looks up at the sign and then to the moon. It tells him nothing.

“God, help me,” he says and he turns to the wolf. It stares at him, yellow eyes in a black silhouette, “Why won’t you leave me alone?”

He wakes in the morning sitting in the bottom of the shower. He gets washed and dressed and then checks his email. There is an email saying Jean Valjean has been arrested. He knows it’s not true. There would be no mistaking Jean Valjean. The people hunting him, really hunting him, would not make that mistake. He is sickened at the thought of helping them. He takes the news with him to the police station where he prints the email out. It sits in the pocket of his jacket like an anchor and he feels it weighing him down. He finds himself treading up the metal stairs to the Mayor’s factory office once more. He stops outside of the door and knocks. It is like knocking on the door of a dead man. He does not know why he does it. The door opens and the Mayor steps aside as he had the night before. Javert hands him the email printout. He reads it in silence,

“It’s not possible,” he says.

“It appears I was mistaken,” Javert says and his voice sounds flat to even his own ears, “I won’t be arresting you.”

Valjean looks up at him and the look says everything it needs to.

“You’re safe to return to your home, Monsieur. I will come around this evening to apologise properly.”

Valjean nods,

“Yes,” he says, and that’s all that needs to be said.

 

That evening Javert goes to the Mayor’s house and finds it emptied of cash and a small quantity of clothes. The Mayor’s car is abandoned. He is satisfied. Then a strange thought crosses his mind. He goes to the hospital. It’s late and the time for guests is long past but the nurses let him through. He finds what he feared: the broad, dark silhouette of Valjean hunched over the whore’s bed. Javert grits his teeth so hard his jaw throbs with pain. He bursts across the ward, coat billowing, and snarls,

“Monsieur le Mayor!”

Valjean stands up and Javert realises he is holding the whore’s hand,

“You’re under arrest,” Javert snarls and Valjean’s face darkens, his free hand clenching at his side.

“Leave me, Javert,” he says, voice a low order.

“No,” he snarls, “if I leave it will be with you.”

“What’s happening?” the whore cries,

“This man is an escaped criminal and must come with me,” Javert says, voice slipping into the cold flat tone of a professional doing his job.

Valjean’s great chest heaves in rage,

“Don’t,” he rumbles.

“Is this true?” the woman cries grabbing at his thick forearm, “Is it true? Oh, my daughter! My Cosette!”  

Valjean places a hand comfortingly over her frail ones as she claws at him, leaving red streaks down his arm,

“It’s alright,” he says, voice soothing, “I will get her. She will be safe.”

The wolf bursts free and Javert rushes at him, mad and frothing at the mouth. He strikes him once, a broad open-handed slap across the face and then Valjean is backhanding him. He slides across the floor until he bangs to a stop against a desk. The woman is wailing and then she is silent.

“Murderer!” Valjean’s voice booms.

Patients begin to scream and Javert attempts to right himself, the room spinning. He manages to glimpse Valjean just for a second and then the man is climbing out of the third-story window and disappearing into darkness. He passes out.

He blinks and he’s in Paris. They had come the next day and searched the Mayor’s premises for any signs of where he had went but found nothing. Javert had been taken into custody and questioned severely and then let go. They didn’t believe he was a werewolf, they believed he was mad. They signed him up with a therapist who told him he had a dissociative disorder caused by childhood trauma. He went along with it; he took the medication they gave him. All that mattered was that Valjean was gone. They wouldn’t find him. They couldn’t find him. But the wolf could find him. The wolf never forgot a scent. So Javert requested he be transferred to Paris. Javert stalked the streets beneath the sun and the wolf stalked beneath the moon. He reached over the side of his bed and lifted up Valjean’s jacket, brought it to his nose and breathed in the smell. He could feel the saliva fill his mouth. Outside, the streetlamps blinked to life, the yellow light seeping through the thin curtains. Javert got out of bed and the wolf slipped out through the bedroom door.

Brief mentions of past child abuse


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


He doesn’t know what drives him but he redownloads Grindr and makes a new account. He has no desire to be subtle this time and so he names himself TirelessHunter and sets his photo to a picture of a wolf. He lies on his back scrolling through accounts until he finds it: an account with a picture of a little soap elephant. He messages LonelyVagrant:

TirelessHunter: I found you.

He doesn’t wait long for a reply:

LonelyVagrant: Yes. … I knew you would. I don’t think you will ever give up.

TirelessHunter: I saw you

Javert types, because he had. He had spotted him just for a moment in the park. The broad shoulders and steady, limping walk that even at a distance marks the man out. He had been dressed in grey and leading behind him a young woman or perhaps a teenage girl, blonde, dressed in a strangely grim black dress, marked by the genetic facial features that accompany down syndrome. She would be the key to finding Valjean again. Wherever he went he would have to locate resources to support the girl: she would have to be homeschooled to avoid being recognised, she would need to be socialised amongst peers her age to maintain her happiness. She most certainly looked happy and healthy. Whether she was his daughter or not, biological or not, that made Javert… content. Maybe. His feelings on the matter were still murky. He had come over the years to believe that Valjean had had nothing with the whore but still, he feared hope. He had always feared hope.

LonelyVagrant: I saw you

Javert’s thumbs tremble over the touch screen,

TirelessHunter: I have always wanted to be seen.

LonelyVagrant: Me too.

TirelessHunter: Let me find you.

There is a long pause

LonelyVagrant is typing…

LonelyVagrant is typing…

LonelyVagrant: I am like an old bull elephant who has been shot before. I am weary of company.

TirelessHunter: Men hurt you and women deceive you. A man will shoot or stab you, a woman will poison you. It’s statistics. Every human is born with the heart of a predator.

LonelyVagrant: Yes, I suppose so. Who hurt you?

TirelessHunter: Everyone.

LonelyVagrant: You’ve never been touched in kindness?

TirelessHunter: Yes, once, but it was a fraud.

LonelyVagrant: Ah. Yes.

LonelyVagrant is typing…

LonelyVagrant is typing…

LonelyVagrant: Would it help if he said he was very sorry?

TirelessHunter: I still have your jacket.

LonelyVagrant: Keep it. I never got you anything to thank you for the elephant.

Javert breathes out a long low sigh,

TirelessHunter: I only want to see you.

LonelyVagrant: You’ll make it happen.

Javert groans and lets his hand hang over the side of the bed, the phone out of sight out of mind. Or at least that’s what he intends. A beep draws his attention back to it and he raises it to his face, squinting against the brightness of the screen.

LonelyVagrant: Forgive me if I’m making an assumption but… I just wanted to say that it wasn’t the right time and I’m not the right person. You deserve better.

Javert curls his lip and growls,

TirelessHunter: Shut up, idiot.

He throws his phone then and then immediately regrets it jumping up to check it’s not broken (he can’t afford a replacement.) Thankfully it’s undamaged. Valjean has replied:

Goodnight x

He’s naïve, Javert doesn’t sleep. He skulks through the streets of the city. There are a lot of cheap apartments in this area and particularly places that are rented out cash-in-hand by shady individuals avoiding taxes and legal expectations. It’s the perfect place for a man who does not want to be found. He’s not sure exactly what he’s looking for so he relies on his preternatural senses: that organ in him that senses the vibrational differences in the air Valjean occupies. Some people might call it the thread of fate. Javert thinks of it as an affinity between monsters.

He has found a corner of the city where the air vibrates and he spends his time there in the evenings standing under a tree that grows outside a church. It’s fitting, Madeleine had been so certain of his faith; of his change from criminal to devoted servant of God, and most importantly mercy and love. A part of Javert wishes he could understand the appeal. Still, he waits. He waits for something, some sign. It doesn’t come.

He decides to stalk the daughter.

Yes, from the outside this seems like an unreasonable or inappropriate response but having committed an extremely large portion of his life to the pursuit of Jean Valjean he is perhaps willing to excuse some socially shunned behaviours.

The daughter does not exist online under the name Valjean and he is not surprised. Instead, he reaches out to groups for disabled or neurodivergent youths. He’s not a youth, obviously, but for the first time in his life having autism comes in handy and he uses it as a way to obtain information on the ‘available resources’ in the city. With this information, he begins to visit these community groups and narrows down which ones a teenage girl might show interest in. It is at one of these groups that he obtains a website link to a zine called Divergent Words. He reads it, grumbling and griping (he’s never seen the point of poetry) and finds it boring and worthless until he finds an embedded video. Its’ equally boring content is from some kind of event where members of the zine are giving speeches, reading slam poetry, and performing… whatever you would call these pitiful attempts at social justice plays. He’s ready to click off when a blonde-haired girl gets up on stage. He realises he had zoned out and he drags the time marker back and watches as the host of the event, a young man with brown hair and a hapless look on his face, welcomes to the stage ‘Cosette’. She reads some kind of poem about community, love, forgiveness- all concepts which stink of Valjean. It is… emotionally powerful. She is well-spoken, confident, and sincere. She is clearly educated. If Valjean has money, which he must have as he made a tremendous amount in Montreuil Sur Mer, he’s most certainly spent it on the girl’s education.

He watches and rewatches the video and tries to imagine what kind of father Valjean must have been- be. He had looked into the Thernadiers, the foster ‘parents’, after he had found out Valjean had kidnapped their foster daughter. To say they were monsters was an understatement. ‘Vloggers’: parents who made films about their children and posted them online. They were apparently somewhere between famous and infamous. They were a model family in their films but even to Javert’s untrained eye it was obvious that the girl was unhappy, disturbed, damaged by their idea of ‘family’. She shied away from the camera, never spoke in the videos, and flinched whenever they tried to play happy families. The girl he watched in this video now was like a stranger to that scared and introverted child. He knew from personal experience what it felt like to grow up afraid of your parent, unwelcome in the place you live. In a strange way, it made him feel ashamed of what he was doing. Not only that he was taking advantage of the girl’s bravery in putting herself out into the world but that he intended to use it to hunt down and deprive her of her father.

He rotated his chair away from the screen, closing the laptop and stared into the middle distance. He had been struggling with this question for a while: what he will do when he finds Valjean. Some days he is sure he will arrest him other days he thinks he will fall at his feet and kiss his hands. He hungers for Valjean, that he knows, he is devoted to him, but it is also his duty to take him back to Toulon. The powers-that-be have decided that Valjean is too dangerous to be loose in the world and who is he to question it? Even if Valjean has done nothing to anyone or anything since he’s been free, still. Still. There must be some truth to their fears. Ultimately, it could be a win-win. If Javert did capture Valjean and take him back to Toulon his plan was this: he would use the favour he would undoubtedly gain to have himself put in charge of Valjean’s care in Toulon. He would treat Valjean well, like a human being. It would almost like being free. There was a tapping on the window and he hooked back the curtain with a finger to watch the rain begin to beat on the windowpane. It was dark out but he could still see the sky. Valjean would miss the sky.

It’s a Thursday. There’s nothing significant about the day, he’s experienced a myriad of Thursdays over the course of his life, each as insignificant as the next. It’s a Thursday, and he’s sitting in the passenger seat of his new ‘partners’ police vehicle. They won’t last long. He has no interest in teamwork. He likes to be in charge or under order, anything else is murky and indistinct. His partner had tried to speak to him at first, typical small talk; he was new and clearly doubted Javert’s well-earned reputation of being an arsehole. Javert was happy to educate him, and now they sat in a vaguely hostile silence. They’re looking for a suspect in a stabbing case. Typical story: young men in gangs. Javert is extremely good at recognising people, he’s spent his whole life watching people, you learn a lot just watching people. He spots the young man, barking,

“There he is!”

His ‘partner’ says,

“Let me pull over,” but Javert is impatient and uninterested and he opens the door and tumbles out onto the sidewalk and jumps to his feet. The young man sees him with a start and the chase begins. 

He can hear his partner, useless idiot, shouting at him to wait. Waiting means losing the suspect in the twisting high-walled back-streets, so he ignores that imbecilic comment. This is what he’s made for: his long legs pumping, bursting around tight corners, puffing steady breaths out through bared teeth. The young man keeps looking over his shoulder, his fearful face just visible past his hood, which is struggling to stay up around his face. Javert grins at him every time he looks back. The young man turns a corner ahead of him and there’s a yell of surprise, then Javert takes the same corner and crashes straight into a man. Broad shoulders, hard chest, white curling hair, a look of surprise followed by recognition. His feet haven’t stopped running and he stumbles over them as he looks back at Valjean, mouth and eyes open in a look of gormless disbelief as he watches the man grow small and smaller behind him. He turns around just in time to avoid running directly into a wall, jumps over a bicycle, crashes through a bush and grabs the back of the young man’s hoodie with clawed hands. They scrabble on the floor while he reads him his rights. 

His heart is pounding in his chest and the words, “Valjean, Valjean, Valjean” are frantically buzzing around his head, striking him dumb and breathless. Every atom in his body wants to turn back, leave the young man in handcuffs and dash back down the warren to sniff his prey out. But he doesn’t. He’s on a warning and even Chabouillet cannot help him if he keeps pushing his luck, so he stays, gnashing his teeth, wild eyebrows drawn down over his eyes, pacing like a tiger.

The delight of the arrest has been completely undermined by the devastation at having missed Valjean. He can feel absolutely no pride or joy as the young man is lifted into the back of the police van, weeping. His partner pats him on the shoulder in an overly friendly manner and Javert shoots him a dark look. He wisely backs away.

He adds the area to his map of potential Valjean locations. Then he sits down on the floor, cross-legged, and looks it. He should be able to catch Valjean easily now. He knows the park Valjean visits every Saturday. He has been there many Saturdays and watched the man, in his loose-fitting slacks and nicely ironed shirt, turn about the park with his daughter, and yet… standing there, half concealed by the trunk of a tree, he cannot bring himself to march across that grass, to step into the glaring light of day and call around and grasp at that man he seeks. There is something about the sun, and the crisp blue sky, and the gentle sound of children’s laughter that makes his hunt seem grotesque. Standing there in the shadows, watching a happy family from a distance, he finds his life in stark relief. He feels nothing but a strange entanglement of shame and grief. Some days he can even see himself, a dark blotch on the horizon, walking beside Valjean. Not quite fitting the scene, not quite belonging, but welcome nonetheless, and in those moments, he wants so badly that it hurts.

He is looking at Paradise. He has lived in it before. Some part of the universe deemed him unworthy of remaining there. That life was not made for him.

None of these truths can convince him to stop wanting.

It’s a Monday, the rain is crashing down in a brutal torrent, and he finds himself stepping inside the old church he has so often stood outside of. He expects to burst into flames, but he doesn’t. He just stands there, soaking wet and uncomfortable, skin crawling, in the doorway. His long black leather jacket leaves a pool of water around his feet as he stands and watches, just watches, the man in the front pew. Watches the curly white, back of his head, bowed over his hands. He can't bring himself to close the space between them. It feels as though it has been years since he has been so close to him. It has been years, two years since he met Valjean in the ill-fated BDSM club, six months since he bumped into him in the alleyway. So, he just stands there, like he’s forgotten what to do. How to walk, how to talk, how to make an arrest. Eventually, Valjean lifts his head and looks over his shoulder. His eyes meet Javert’s and they are like a hot poker dropped into cold water. He looks, sad. He turns his head back in a movement that beckons Javert to him without words. He paces the length of the pews, boots making an unpleasant cracking against the stone floor reminiscent of the crack of a whip. He comes to stop beside the pew Valjean sits on. The man seems to ignore him, or perhaps he is expecting him to sit because after a moment he looks up to meet Javert’s eyes once more.

“You’re soaking,” he says,

“Yes,” Javert replies.

Valjean stands up, and with careful hands eases the leather jacket from Javert’s shoulders. He lets him, and watches in silence as the jacket is spread out over the back of a chair. They stare at each other. After a moment, Valjean swallows,

“Sit with me,” he motions to the pew and they sit together in silence.

“Do you believe in God?” Valjean asks, worn face staring up at the ancient wooden sculpture of Jesus.

“No,” Javert answers,

“Why?”

“I think it’s cruel. There are children in the world who have been abandoned by their fathers, and you ask them to believe they have been abandoned by a greater good-er father?”

Valjean hums,

“I hope we have not been abandoned.”

“Hope. Hope is another burden too big for children to carry. They shouldn’t have to live in hope that they’re loved.”

Valjean hums again,

“I think we’re all born in hope. It’s only a burden when we fight to give it up.”

“Maybe.”

They fall into silence again.

Javert looks up at the sculpture, looming over him, looking aggrieved, looking as though Javert should apologise to it for something. He tries to feel what Valjean feels when he looks at it. Tries to imagine what Valjean feels when he looks at it. He finds nothing.

“Thank you for coming to meet me,” Valjean says.

He says it as if this meeting were planned, as if Javert has not stood outside this exact church night after night in… in hope.

Very slowly Valjean’s hand reaches out, and, in a moment that fills Javert with pure terror, it rests itself on Javert’s, tangling their fingers together. Valjean doesn’t look at him, Javert looks at their hands.

“I’m almost ready,” Valjean says.

“For what?” Javert rasps.

“To go back,” Valjean says, and he is aggrieved and Javert feels pain, agonising pain.

“All I wanted was to experience what it was like to live,” Valjean says, “and I’ve had so much. I’ve been so lucky. But I know I can’t run forever. I’ve been living on borrowed time, and my life has become so entangled with Cosette’s… Once I was her buoy, now I’m like an anchor. Do you understand?”

He turns to Javert then and there are tears pricking at the corner of his eyes. Javert wants to wipe them away. Instead, he nods.

“Cosette is planning her marriage. I like her fiancé. I do. I mean that. Even if I don’t sound like I do. She’ll be happy with him. She’ll be a woman, a proper independent woman. She’ll do her degree, and she’ll get a job, and she’ll have a family. I can’t pull her under.”

“Have you seen them?” Javert says,

“No,” Valjean answers, “But it’s only a matter of time. I’ve seen you. You’re always there: watching. Waiting for me,” his eyes harden then, searching, and Javert trembles under them, “What are you waiting for? Why are you waiting?”

Javert opens his mouth to answer and finds he doesn’t know what to say. He turns instead and looks up at the wooden figure above.

“I-I,” he pauses, trying to find a way to put into words what he’s thinking, feeling, “There was a follower of Jesus: Judas,”

Valjean nods,

“He- he loved Jesus best but… he betrayed him. And his punishment was to walk the earth the rest of his life in grief, his punishment was to live with the fact he had betrayed the man he loved the best. To live forever while Jesus died.”

Javert pauses, swallowing, trembles with the chill of the cold water soaked through his shirt,

“I’m… I’m waiting to find out if I’m Judas.”

He’s cold but Valjean’s hand on his cheek feels like a furnace. It rests there, coarse and gentle, and very softly the thumb strokes over the bristly hair that frames Javert’s face. He is frightened to turn his head. He is frightened to meet those eyes.

“Judas had no stories to compare himself to. He was alone. All alone in history when he made that choice. Jesus forgave him. I forgive him.”

Javert rasps,

“I don’t. I wouldn’t- ever.”

Valjean smiles sadly,

“Will you forgive me?” he whispers,

“For what?” Javert asks, startled into facing him,

“For breaking your heart.”

“You didn’t. I broke my heart, a thousand times over,” Javert grimaces, “Because I kept giving in to hope.”

Valjean leans in and kisses him.

It’s strange. It’s baffling. He doesn’t deserve it. He can’t really enjoy it. He just sits there, looking at himself as Valjean kisses him. It’s like he has slid a knife between Javert’s ribs and straight into his heart, splitting the dry old wood in two. When Valjean’s lips drawback he curls over, face creasing in agony, and wails. Tears fall as thick and heavy as the rain and Valjean’s arms wrap around him, warm and strong and he holds him as he rocks, as he shakes and howls like a beast.

He's twelve and Miss Marissa is pulling the boys off of him by their ears and telling them off for beating him. He's thirteen and Miss Marissa is packing his lunchbox and ruffling his hair and sending him to school. He’s fourteen and Miss Marissa is attending his school meeting on behalf of the orphanage and she’s glancing at him out of the corner of her eye as the teacher talks, her eyes creasing with worry. He’s fifteen and he’s in a hospital bed and his whole body is wracked with the agony of tears and of the knife wound, newly sewn up, and he is crushing Miss Marissa’s hand and begging to call her Mum and she is telling him no.

Valjean’s hair is soft as it rests against the back of his neck, and his broad, strong hands are rubbing reassuring circles between his shoulder blades. The wolf is not there. It is only Javert, and he is all alone in the world.

He is five and he is locked in the closet. His knees pulled up to his chest in the darkness. He’s five and the low rough sound of a man’s voice outside fills him with dread. His mother is speaking, her tone conciliatory. There are meaty sounds, thuds and then a scream. He closes his eyes really tight and imagines the scariest animals he can and pictures them here in the closet with him. The door of the closet begins to bang and he squeezes his eyes tighter, safe in the knowledge that if his father knocks down the door the tigers and wolves will rip him apart.

The truth is, Javert’s heart has been broken his whole life.

 

It takes a long time for him to calm down. For the deep pool, almost an ocean, to empty itself out and dry up. He feels pathetic and small until he realises that Valjean’s face is wet against the back of his neck.

“I can’t leave that place behind,” he whispers, “I don’t want to go back.”

He doesn’t know if he’s speaking for himself or Valjean. He doesn’t know if he’s talking about Toulon, or about the prison he was born in, or about the small flat he lived in with his mother, or about the orphanage, but Valjean nods against him.

“But we can’t keep running away.”

This time Javert nods.

 

He is too exhausted to keep track of where Valjean’s small flat is. He doesn’t have anything to give the hunt, he’s hollow; the wolf stumbles along behind him, weak, head hanging.

Valjean doesn’t turn on the light when they enter, and he leads Javert by the hand to his room. They curl, face to face on the bed, still in their wet clothes, and very tentatively Valjean pulls Javert against him, and very tentatively Javert lets him. In the darkness, Valjean whispers to him all about himself, tells him about watching him in Toulon, about watching him in M-Sur-M, about watching him in Paris. He tells Javert stories about himself that he has forgotten. About how brave he is, how fierce he is, and how strong he is. He tells Javert stories about a sixteen-year-old boy who stood up to his superiors to defend lowly prisoners. He tells Javert stories about a noble police officer who risked his life to defend the citizens of a small town. He tells stories about a man who showed mercy to an escaped criminal, allowing him to walk undisturbed in the park with his daughter. Javert weeps again until he falls asleep.

He wakes again in the early hours of the morning, the thin pale light seeping in through a crack in the curtains. He doesn’t want to move, and it takes him a long time to realise it is because he is content. He is lying half-covering Valjean with his body, his arm curled over Valjean’s ribs, his head nestled against the man’s neck. He stays there. There is nowhere he needs to run to. No one he needs to chase. Valjean’s hand comes to rest on the back of his head and very gently combs through his hair. He turns his head and finds himself looking into Valjean’s eyes, nose to nose. Very slowly they rest their foreheads together.

“I want to leave it all behind,” Valjean whispers, “But… I’m not strong enough to do it on my own.”

Javert squeezes him tighter, shifting to press his nose and face against Valjean’s cheek. Valjean sighs.

“I want to live every day in your shadow,” Javert says, voice a rough growl.

Valjean squeezes him back and laughs.

This story started out as a meme lol

Chapter rated E because they finally nuttin

They lie in bed as the sun yellows through the crack in the curtain and creeps up the opposite wall.

“Cosette is staying with her fiancé,” Valjean says, voice still low and rough from sleep, and Javert grins wolfishly at him,

“Are you implying something, Valjean,” he growls, throwing one long leg over Valjean’s hip and hoisting himself up to lie on top of him, in no way labouring under the delusion that he could ever pin the man. Valjean flushes and grins an unduly shy grin,

“Ah well, before we do anything I’d really like to talk,”

Javert growls and thrusts against him, weaponizing his hardness as it grinds against Valjean’s through their trousers. Valjean gasps, his hands moving of their own accord to grasp Javert’s ass,

“Wait-” he breathes,

“Valjean, I’ve been waiting for near thirty years, if you make me wait any longer-” he leaves the threat hanging, filling the space with another rough thrust of his hips,

“Javert,” Valjean says sternly, his voice a rumble that sends a shiver through Javert from the tips of his toes to the top of his head. He leans down to nuzzle along Valjean’s jawline and presses kisses to his throat,

“Please,”

Valjean’s strong hands squeeze him roughly and he groans, mouthing his way down the stubbly throat as Valjean arches up against him,

“Really,” he rumbles, “I need to talk to you- about before. I just need you to know that I never had any ill intentions towards you in Toulon. I only ever saw you as a boy, I really didn’t think anything of you until Montreuil. I need you to know that,”

“I know that!” Javert snaps, “God, you think I don’t know that? Do you know what teenage me would have given for you to have reciprocated my feelings?”

Valjean blinks at him stupidly and he lunges in to bite at his cheek, following it with a graze of teeth and then of lips,

“God, Valjean, I’m horny and you’re reminding me of one of the most embarrassing moments of my life. You think I don’t remember how you rejected me in Toulon? How you rejected me in Montreuil? If you reject me again- I don’t know what I’ll do. I wasn’t the right age; it wasn’t the right time- it better be the right time now or else I’m going to cum in my pants and leave!”

Valjean stares at him and then bursts out in beautiful laughter and follows it with an even more beautiful thrust of his hips that has Javert clinging to him, long-fingers digging into his biceps.

Valjean rolls them over, and Javert groans with satisfaction as he’s pinned beneath the great weight of the man’s massive, dense body. He wraps his long legs around him and they muffle their moans in each other’s mouths, kisses and thrusts sloppy and eager. The rhythmic rustling of clothes is almost hypnotic, almost. Javert’s fingers find the hem of Valjean’s shirt and he tugs it up,

“Please,” he whines and Valjean smiles and sits up on his knees and pulls his shirt over his head.

“I’m not quite what I used to be,” he said, smiling shyly.

Javert lies in silence, he trembles with awe as he raises his hands to run over those thick, hairy pectorals. Valjean smiles and takes Javert’s hands in his, pressing them firmly to his chest and then runs them down, down over his still firm stomach until they find the waistband of his jeans. Javert moans wordlessly and eagerly rubs one hand over the bulge he finds, his other hand fiddling with the button. Valjean moans happily at the touch and then leans over him to unbutton Javert’s jeans with far steadier hands. He pulls both Javert’s trousers and underwear off in one smooth movement and then rests those broad warm hands on Javert’s thighs, smiling approvingly,

“I love your legs,” he purrs, “I loved looking at your legs in Montreuil. And your ass,” he says, smoothing his hands up the underside of Javert’s legs to cup his ass.

Javert moans and finally manages to free Valjean’s cock and Valjean groans as eager hands cup and stroke him. He pulls his own trousers off as Javert wrestles his shirt off over his head and flops back onto the bed. They pause to stare at each other breathless, eyes wide, taking every inch,

“God, you’re beautiful,” Valjean murmurs and Javert scoffs,

“No, I’m not. Look at yourself.”

Valjean chuckles and brings one strong hand to rest of Javert’s stomach, smooths it over his abdominals and up to squeeze his chest and then gently pinch one small dark nipple. Javert gasps at the touch and rushes his own hands to stroke Valjean’s thick thighs and then sits up to touch his stomach, and chest, and shoulders, and arms, and back and every part he can reach.

Valjean’s lips curl into a smile against his as they kiss, deep and still a bit messy. His own hands smooth up and down Javert’s lean arms, his broad shoulders, his flat lightly haired chest and then down to stroke between his thighs in a way that has Javert panting wetly against his mouth,

“God, Valjean,” he gasps,

“What do you want?” Valjean murmurs, breath hot against Javert’s ear,

“I want to suck your cock,” he practically begs.

Valjean grunts, a noise half surprise and half arousal.

“Alright,” he says, voice low and rough, “How- how do you want me?”

“On your back,” Javert pants, eager as a dog in heat.

Valjean lays himself out on his back, head and shoulders propped up on a pillow and spreads his legs for Javert to sit in between. Javert takes a minute to just look at him, eyes roaming over every inch of exposed flushed flesh, hungry, ferocious with want. He flicks his tongue out over his lips and watches with satisfaction as Valjean’s Adam’s apple bobs. Valjean folds his arms behind his head, his biceps flexing in a way that makes Javert's cock twitch, and then Javert lowers himself down onto his stomach, his cock trapped between him and the mattress, his head between those gorgeous thick thighs. The muscles of which twitch and flex in suppressed anticipation.

“I-I have to tell you,” Valjean says, sounding unnecessarily nervous, “I’ve never- I’ve never done anything like this with anyone before.”

Javert’s wolfish brows rise into his fringe,

“No one? But you look like-” he motions with one hand to Valjean’s rippling abs and thick chest.

“Well, I haven’t,” Valjean says, flushing with more than arousal,

“Me neither,” Javert says, somehow feeling unable to be intimidated face-to-face with Valjean’s cock.

He turns his eyes from Valjean’s then, taking a moment to take in the sight of it, heavy and flushed dark with blood. He flicks his tongue out over his lips again in anticipation and hears Valjean pant,

“Are you sure you want to-”

“Yes,” he breathes, voice short, “Yes, please, god, don’t stop me!”

And he leans in, pressing a kiss to the soft wrinkled skin of Valjean’s balls and moans as the answering gasp, then nuzzles his nose into the wiry curly white pubic hair, breathing in the musky smell of him with a deep hunger. He presses another kiss to the base, hands resting on Valjean’s inner thigh almost where it meets his hips and he massages there, squeezing the firm muscle. Valjean moans above him, voice breathy and Javert answers every moan with a kiss, moving his lips up the warm, throbbing length until he reaches the head. He takes it in his hand then, pulling the soft foreskin back to swirl his tongue around the head, and lets his eyes fall closed to focus on savouring the feel and taste of him. Valjean’s hand comes to rest on the back of his head, blunt fingers knotting in his hair and he moans his approval around Valjean’s head. Valjean groans a loud animal noise above him and Javert feels that hand apply a little very much wanted pressure. He curls his hand around the base and dips his head to, with a little trepidation, take the first few inches into his mouth, sucking.

“Oh, fuck!” Valjean gasps and he arches under Javert’s hands, his cock pushing further back in Javert’s mouth and Javert half gags and half moans around him,

“Sorry,” Valjean pants, “Ah, I’m sorry,”

Eager to show his approval Javert begins to bob his head. He presses his eyes closed, focusses every sense he possesses to focus on Valjean, on his salty, sour taste, on the heat radiating off his body, on the pulsing of that thick vein on the underside of his cock, on the heady musky smell of him mixed with the sour smell of sweat, on the low, rumbling noises that accompany every trembling of Valjean’s thighs and stomach as Javert bobs up and down, mouth wet and hungry. He rolls his hips against the bed, unable to resist any longer and pulls his mouth off with a wet pop to lap at his balls needily before returning his mouth to sucking and licking. Valjean gasps and moans above him, his nails scraping over Javert’s scalp as he tugs on Javert’s hair in a way that makes Javert’s balls ache with need.

“Oh, Javert,” Valjean moans, “Oh, fuck. Oh, I’m going to- oh, please- I’m,” he breaks off with a gasp, hand that had been pushing tugging on Javert’s hair. Javert exhales a breathy snarl like a possessive dog unwilling to give up its bone and Valjean gives in, thrusting his hips and gasping. Javert drags open his eyes to watch him, to watch the heaving of his beautiful chest, the rippling of his stomach muscles, the twitching of his thighs, and the way his head tips back, mouth falling open as he moans and then Javert’s mouth is filled with hot wet salt and he gags and swallows desperately trying to get it all. He fails and it dribbles out of his mouth and down his chin. Valjean falls flat onto the bed, beautiful flushed chests bouncing with every gasping breath. Javert pulls off of him with a delicious noise and moves to lick him clean. Valjean’s hand unclenches and he smooths it over Javert’s hair, petting him approvingly.

Then he sits up,

“Come up here,” he says, voice rough from his orgasm and Javert climbs to his knees to crawl up the bed. Valjean reaches down between his legs and pauses, hand cupping Javert’s softening cock, “You’ve cum?” he says.

“Ah,” Javert flushes, “Um,” he looks down, he has indeed left a big wet patch on Valjean’s mattress, “Sorry.”

“Don’t be,” Valjean says, pulling him in and kissing him roughly, “That was incredible. You’re so sexy.”

“I’m not.”

“You are,” he growls, and he reaches down to grab a handful of Javert’s ass, giving a firm squeeze, “You are so sexy. God, fuck. I wanted you so bad in Montreuil. You have no idea. Every time I saw you in those tight little trousers…”

He pulls Javert until he’s lying on his back on the bed and Valjean grins and moves down to lick Javert's cum from where it’s matted in the hair on his stomach. Javert gasps, arching under him, eyes fluttering closed as that hot wet tongue strokes curling patterns over his skin, down, down, until Valjean’s coarse strong hand is holding him and Valjean’s wet muscular tongue is swirling over his head, cleaning him.  

“Valjean!” he gasps,

“Call me Jean,” he purrs and he moves up, dragging his body up the length of Javert’s to pin him against the bed and kisses him deeply, tongue flicking out to lap the cum from Javert’s lips and chin. It’s perfect, the taste of both of them blending in their mouths.

“Was it worth the wait for you?” Valjean purrs and Javert can only groan arching up against him,

“Yes,” he moans, “Yes.”

Valjean grows shy again,

“Can we... do this again? Except maybe next time I can make you cum?”

“You did,” Javert rumbles, nuzzling his face into Valjean’s neck to breathe in the smell of him.   

“I meant more actively,” he answers chuckling, “Maybe I could… touch you more or suck your cock?”

“Or… fuck me?” Javert adds suddenly finding himself growing shy.

Valjean stares at him, eyes dark and wide,

“Yes,” he says roughly, “I’d like that.”

Javert flushes and Valjean chuckles as he hides his face in his neck,

“So shy, Inspector.”

“Don’t.”

 

They lay tangled together in bed, Valjean’s hand petting Javert’s hair in a way that is more therapeutic than any expensive spa weekend could ever be.

“I,” Valjean starts, breaking the hazy half-asleep silence, “I don’t want to ruin this but… we need to talk about... my arrest.”

Javert grunts,

“That’s my problem. Don’t worry about it.”

“It is my problem,” Valjean answers sharply, “I need to know what you plan to do?”

“Fuck you again.”

“Am I to be your Scheherazade fucking you each night to keep myself out of jail?”

Javert sits up and stares at him and by the look of shock on Valjean’s face he has surprised and horrified himself with his own words,

“I didn’t mean it like that,” he says

“Then how did you mean it?” Javert snaps,

“I just meant I don’t want to feel like this is my way of bribing you to not arrest me. I want- I want us to have a proper relationship.”

Javert snorts and swings his legs over the edge of the bed, looking around for his pants. Valjean’s hand closes around his wrist like a manacle,

“I mean it!” he says, “I’ve waited- we’ve waited such a long time I don’t want to lose this straight away. If you intend to arrest me tomorrow, or a week from now, I want to know!”

Javert pauses, half hunched, perched on the edge of the bed. He stares blindly at a spot on the carpet and then shoots Valjean a dark look over his shoulder,

“I don’t know. Does that make you happy? I don’t when or if ever I am going to arrest you. My life is in turmoil. I’m in a whirlpool of uncertainty. I’m just existing day to day in hopes that something will appear and split the clouds and help me see- just see. See anything, any way out of this darkness.”

Valjean’s hand softens and very slowly it turns Javert’s wrist until it is face up. He runs his thumb over a group of straight, grouped scars there,

“How did you get these?”

“A long time ago,” Javert says shortly, “I don’t want to talk about it.”

Valjean’s hand moves to trail up the back of his arm and to his shoulder,

“And this one?”

“A bullet wound.”

It moves down his back,

“This one?”

“Knife. A few of them are knife wounds. One of them is from a cigarette. All the little ones are acne scars.”

“You have a lot of scars,” Valjean says, “You know where all mine come from but I know nothing about yours.”

“Hmm,” Javert answers, and then he leans over and grabs Valjean’s left arm, turning his forearm up, “except this one.”

Valjean drops his eyes, ashamed,

“Ah. A hot poker.”

“I see.”

He releases Valjean’s arm and Valjean’s hand drops from his back and they sit and stare at each other in silence.

“I want to see you again,” Valjean says, voice quiet and nervously hopeful.

Javert grunts and turns away, and brings his hand up to rub the back of his neck.

“I can’t give you up,” he says eventually, “I’m your slave. Whether you want me or not.”

Valjean’s hand comes to rest on his back between his shoulder blades and it’s as hot as a brand and Javert can’t believe that it doesn’t leave a mark when he pulls away, standing up a finding his clothes.

Valjean pulls on a warm fuzzy looking dressing gown and follows him to the door. Javert stops in the doorway, staring at him wordlessly and Valjean pushes up into his tiptoes and kisses him on the edge of his mouth,

“I’ll see you soon,” he whispers.

The rain has long stopped but the mad crashing of it still fills his mind and as he wanders the streets back toward his apartment the heavy crashing of water only grows louder.