Title: the way you see me
Work ID: 50799862
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy, Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Young Love, Fluff, Short & Sweet
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


She believes his name is Marius. Unlike Cosette, Marius isn’t a new student. He had his own group of friends, though she noticed that the boy is more awkward than the rest of his group, but he is still liked and accepted. She wonders what it must be like to have friends like that, people who won’t judge you for the way you are. 


 


Cosette doesn’t have much luck with friends. She’s never had school before her Papa and Father found her. She is well liked by everyone, but no close friends. Cosette thinks this is mostly because of what her Father had called her anxiety and insecurities. She’s still shy and quiet no matter how much she hates the way she is. Cosette snapped out of it, and looked at Marius again to distract herself from her anxious thoughts. The boy had beautiful brown hair, messy and wavy. His eyes remind her of the chocolates her Papa buys in the weekend, all sweet and lovely.


 


Then those eyes looked at her, and Cosette quickly looked away. She doesn’t fully understand the way she feels. Is this a crush? Isn’t she too young for that? Or maybe it’s friendship? But before she can think about reading her books for more information on such things, Marius was in front of her. He looked nervous, hands fidgeting. There was a strange reddish color on his cheeks that Cosette can’t help but look at.


 


“H-Hello,” he said, “I’m Marius Pontmercy, though you probably already knew that.” He let out a nervous chuckle. “You’re Cosette, right? And you’re new here, yeah? I-I just want to welcome you…”


 


Marius flushed and Cosette noticed his friends in the background who had varying reactions, some smiling as if to encourage, others smirking as if entertained, and one shaking his head. Cosette tried her best to ignore them.


 


“Yeah, I’m Cosette,” she said, blushing. “Nice to meet you, Marius.” Awkwardly, she held out her hand, remembering how her Father held hers when they first met, before mentally chastising herself for being so weird and formal. 


 


But Marius seemed to smile at that, albeit shyly, and took her hand in his, all gentle and soft. 


 


“I just, you know, I noticed that you tend to be alone—“ Marius’ friends gasped, and Marius shook his head quickly, his face a picture of panic. “I mean— What I mean is, I would love to be your friend! Only if you want to, of course.”


 


Cosette nodded quickly. It would be nice to have friends, she thinks.


 


~


 


As the days pass, Cosette becomes more comfortable with Marius and his friends. They don’t seem to mind her introverted and clueless nature. If anything, the boys seemed adamant on protecting her like their little sister. They don’t seem to pity her for being sheltered and innocent, but rather see it as an opportunity to teach her things she never knew about before, like musicals, paintings, romance, and… revolution?


 


Cosette sometimes gets overwhelmed with their discussions, but Marius is always there for her. She finds his presence to be reassuring, probably because the boy seems to prefer spending time with her, always listening and comforting. 


 


She doesn’t truly understand why these boys seem to accept her into the friend group, why Marius is so keen to be her friend, but she’s scared that it will all end soon. What if they know about her past? What if they realize how boring she is?


 


But over time, she realized that they all have sadness in them. Marius encourages them to share their problems, and Cosette can’t say no to him. If they really are friends then she has to be honest.


 


When she told them about her past with the Thenardiers, the boys didn’t even think less of her, if anything they were furious. She even got to know about how some of them hated their parents. This was quite a shock to Cosette, since she can’t imagine hating her Papa and Father, but it just goes to show how blessed she is now. 


 


~


 


It was an early dismissal at school when Marius met her Papa and Father. Cosette and her friends were laughing at Grantaire and Enjolras’ bickering when Papa called for her. She turned and saw Father was with him too, and with an expression on his face that many would say is intimidating. He was staring right at Marius beside her, and the poor boy was shaking. 


 


Papa was smiling nervously, “Oh, Cosette, are they your friends?”


 


“Yes, Papa,” she said then introduced each of them. Marius reached out a shaky hand to the man. 


 


“Nice to meet you Sir,” he said, and Cosette almost giggled at the formalness.


 


Papa hesitantly took the boy’s hand and shook it. Father just stared at him menacingly.


 


“Tell me, Marius,” he said in his interrogative voice, “what do you plan on being when you grow up?”


 


Cosette groaned. “Father, let’s go,” she was already dragging both men to their car, leaving behind a flustered Marius.
