Title: The Feline Element
Work ID: 46930645
Author: AwkwardAnnie
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Established Relationship, Domestic Fluff, Post-Seine, Cats
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Inspector Javert was cold. He was also damp, aching and wondering why he had ever become a police spy in the first place.

It hadn't seemed so bad when he was younger. He used to be able to sit for hours in the guise of a beggar, or a down-on-his-luck workman, eyes alert and ears trained on the faintest whisper like a hawk listening for the scurrying rodent. He had thought himself patient. He had thought himself just. He had tolerated the hours of tedium because if he succeeded in his work it meant the chase, the capture, the arrest, and it hadn't mattered that afterwards he would have to go back to his dark, cramped room and the smell of boot polish and his landlady's watery coffee. It had seemed a fair trade for upholding the immutable, irreproachable Law 

But then had come the barricade, the bridge, the river. 

(It was always 'the river'. Never 'the jump' or even 'the fall', but merely 'the river', as if the Seine itself had reached out to pluck him from the parapet and drag him down into the darkness. It was easier that way.)

Now he had a leg that had never quite set properly and a shoulder that throbbed when it rained, and a fragile new soul in his chest that hurt more than both of them. 

He also had the knowledge that if he were to get up right now, throw off his disguise and call it a day, his feet would carry him not to that tiny room smelling of leather and bad coffee, but to a house on the Rue Plumet with a lush green garden and a roaring fireplace and Jean Valjean, the saint in the guise of a convict with a bottomless well of mercy where most men kept their hearts. It was making it very difficult to remember why it was important to be sitting here in this nearly deserted street in the middle of November, with puddles still on the ground from the morning's rain and the last of the sun trickling diluted and wan between the grubby buildings. His mind would not focus on the task, but instead meandered through any number of irrelevant thoughts: if he'd stayed at home, he would still be warm. He would not have had mud splashed up to his knees by the wheel of a passing wagon. He would not be losing feeling in his bad leg.

It would be getting on for supper time in the Rue Plumet. Right now, he could be sitting at Valjean's kitchen table eating bread baked fresh that morning and manfully withholding a remark about it being lawfully obtained. He could be watching the crinkles in the corner of Valjean's eyes as he talked about his visit to his daughter and son-in-law, the paternal pride beaming from his face as his hair shone in the last light of the sun. Maybe later, they could retire to the armchairs in front of the fire for a glass of wine and a protracted argument about philosophical ethics that would inevitably end with Javert throwing up his hands in disbelief, sarcastically declaring Valjean the patron saint of thieves, whores and orphan children, and Valjean looking at him with such impossible fondness that the actual debate seemed unimportant. And then, later still… well.

Suffice it to say that spying had been a far more bearable activity when Javert hadn't had so many better things to do with his time. Now, it was an unwelcome distraction. He was cold. He was damp, he was aching, he was bored, he was–

He was being watched.

Across the street, two yellowish eyes peered at him from around the remains of an abandoned market stall. They blinked slowly at him. He blinked slowly back; it seemed polite. Slowly, the rest of the cat emerged from behind the rotting wood and slunk across the cobbles towards him, pausing every few steps as if to reassess him. It was a scrawny thing, and might have been grey or merely dirty. When it was within an arm's reach, it stopped, sat down and regarded Javert.

"I am working," he told it. "Go away." Not dissuaded by the tone that usually made criminals and junior officers alike tremble in their boots, the cat stretched out its neck and gave him an appraising sniff. It didn't seem to be bothered by the filthy beggar trousers or the threadbare coat that smelled as if its previous owner had died in it, because it came a few steps closer. Javert frowned at it. "I do not have any food for you." This was not strictly true, but only because the crust of dry black bread in his pocket was technically edible.

The cat seemed to consider this for a moment. Then it sniffed him again, more intently this time. Slowly, Javert uncrossed his arms and presented a hand for inspection. He obviously passed muster, for it gave him first a tentative rub and then a more demanding butt of its head. Sighing, he scratched it behind the ears and was rewarded with a purr like someone sawing a plank of wood. 

Not generally enamoured of any beast (or indeed most men), Javert had had a grudging fondness for cats for most of his life. He admired their independence and respected them as fellow enforcers of the natural divide of predator and vermin. However, he also clearly remembered the time, many years ago in Montreuil-sur-Mer, when his duty had compelled him to evict a particularly recalcitrant specimen from the station-house. He could still recall the expression on M. Madeleine's face when Javert had been obliged to explain the reason for the blood on his collar and the five bright red streaks across his cheek. The image of that unholy combination of concern and amusement was all the more infuriating for the knowledge that Valjean would make exactly the same face now were he to return home in a similar state.

Javert liked cats, but he did not wholly trust them. This, he felt, was as it should be.

A chill wind whipped down the street and he shivered despite himself. The cat made a tiny noise and put a paw up on his chest. Huge golden eyes gazed up at him beseechingly. It was young, no more than a year old, but already scabby around the ears. He sighed again. 

"Fine," he said, and held open his coat so that the scruffy creature could climb inside. "But you are a colleague, not a companion. Behave yourself." 

Companion or not, the animal was clearly happy with the turn of events. The purring doubled in volume and was now accompanied by the kneading of tiny paws and tinier claws, every one of which Javert felt through his patched shirt. It gave the long greying strands of his hair, left loose and greasy for the disguise, a cursory lick before giving it up as a wasted effort and settling down, apparently content, in the crook of his arm.

Together, they waited as the sun slid behind the buildings and darkness curled up from the gutters to take its place.

There were footsteps on the street. He pulled his cap down and his coat a bit tighter around the two of them, sunk back into his corner and rasped, "Spare a sou, m'sieur?"

The footsteps paused. Then a familiar voice, low but full of mirth, asked, "Is the Prefecture issuing all officers with cats now, or did you have to provide your own?"


Of all the–


"Damn and blast you, Jean Valjean," he hissed, even as his heart did something deeply embarrassing in his chest. "I am beginning to think you do this deliberately." Louder, he added, "Please, m'sieur, my little friend here, she ain't eaten all day."

"Oh dear, that won't do," said Valjean, and Javert risked a glance upward to find him grinning indulgently and rummaging in his pockets. There was the clink of coins and Valjean bent down to press a franc–a whole franc!–into his hand. "I'll have Toussaint save some scraps for her," he whispered.

"I am not keeping her, Jean," Javert said, more roughly than he really intended.

"Are you going to tell her, or shall I?" Valjean's eyes were twinkling. Javert looked down to find that the cat was fast asleep in the swaddle of his coat, with just the tip of her tail twitching as she breathed. Javert sighed.

"We will see," he said, and knew that the decision had been made without any input from him. 

"When will you be home?" asked Valjean softly. His fingers still lingered in Javert's palm. It made the inevitable response even more bitter.

"Late."

Valjean offered him a rueful half-smile and pressed his hand briefly. "Very well." Then he straightened and tipped his hat to Javert with a wink. "God bless you, Monsieur, and your little friend too."

Javert merely grunted in response, but he still watched Valjean's coat-tails disappear down the street and around the corner. 

"You are not coming home with me" he said firmly, and the ball of fur in his coat shifted and stretched out one grubby paw, toes spread wide, to pat him gently on the chin. 

 

 

Much, much later, Javert slid gratefully into his own bed. He ached all over but he was warm, the mattress was soft and he'd even managed to find time to wash the grime out of his hair. Beside him, the covers stirred and Valjean's sleepy voice asked, "And how is your little friend?"

A year ago, Javert might have bristled at the implication that, despite his own assertions to the contrary, he had done exactly what Valjean had said he would do, viz. bundle up the armful of damp feline in his coat and carry it, still purring, halfway across Paris in the middle of the night for no reason other than a vague sense of charity. But Javert was not the man he had been a year ago, and that was precisely what he had done.

He considered. "Hungry," he concluded. Indeed, his 'little friend' had polished off Toussaint's promised scraps, along with a substantial piece of cheese, an unfortunate mouse and, despite Javert's best efforts, the corners of his half-written report. Apparently fortified, she had then hurled herself around the kitchen for the better part of half an hour in pursuit of something Javert could neither see nor hear. "You need to stop opening your house to every waif and stray that crosses your path." 

Valjean chuckled softly. "You are hardly a waif," he said in a tone that managed to be both cheeky and, somehow, indecently suggestive.

Javert opened his mouth to make an appropriately sarcastic comment when something grey and surprisingly heavy landed on his stomach with a thud, ran the length of the bed three times at breakneck speed and then bit him on the nose.

"Damn and blast you, Jean Valjean," he growled for the second time that night, over the ugly snorts of laughter from the other side of the bed, and realised with some irritation that he didn't mean a word of it.