Title: The White Stallion
Work ID: 42340398
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Horses, Travel, Established Relationship, Swimming, Sex in a lake, more details than you ever wanted to know about Valjean's Arabian horse breeding plans, Alexis de Tocqueville's 1830s Arabian stud at Castle Gueures, this is still a 24/7 D/s relationship but apparently that just turns Javert into pure fluff, while Valjean is committing serious horse crimes
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Golden sunlight fell in through the leaves that stretched above them, painting shifting dapples of light and shadow on the coat of Valjean’s horse. Earlier, as they had ridden past fields of wheat, the air had shimmered in the heat. Now, as they followed the road through a stretch of forest, the shade was a relief, although Doré, Valjean’s golden gelding, strode forward eagerly despite the hours they’d already spent in the saddle.

It had been a good idea to convince Javert to come with him and to take the horses instead of a post coach, even though the coach would have been much faster. Still, the weather was beautiful this time of the year, and it was good to have an excuse to spend a week together with no company but their horses and the evenings in the inns along the way. When was the last time they had traveled like this?

Never, Valjean thought with surprise—not since Javert had found him in Montfermeil and they had fled from Thénardier together, sharing a cart with Fantine and Cosette.

“You look pleased with yourself.” Javert nudged Noiraude forward so that they rode side by side, narrowing his eyes at Valjean, although the twitching of his lips betrayed him.

Valjean gave him a smile. “Why wouldn’t I be? There is a week of this awaiting us.” He gestured at the path ahead of them—the golden sunlight, the eager, relaxed horses, the quiet forest, and Javert’s presence by his side.

He was pleased with himself, and for a good reason. What other man could have managed to convince Javert, chief inspector of the prefecture, to take a week’s holiday from his work? Not even the prefect of police could have managed what Valjean could.

“One week’s journey, and all that just to look at a horse,” Javert muttered, although he didn’t look as displeased as he pretended to be. “It’ll be all for nothing in the end, I’m certain.”

“Guillaume knows his horses. You like his red Arab well enough.”

“A fine horse,” Javert admitted. “But it will take more than luck to find another one like it.”

It would take a hefty sum as well, but Valjean didn’t say that.

Once, Javert had ordered Valjean to take the money he’d hidden and use it to make certain that there was a way of escape should something happen to Javert and Valjean’s secret come out. Eventually, Valjean had bought a small farm not far from Saint-Cloud, after his farrier had pointed out the red Arab stallion there.

In the years since, they’d had two foals out of Noiraude, and a fine crop of foals from the farm’s small herd of mares every year. Still, the red Arab was nearing an age where they had to start thinking of another stallion to take over his duties in a year or two. Furthermore, while he’d sired fine foals, most of the farmer’s stock were cavalry horses—good saddle horses all of them, but none of them of pure Arabian blood.

Another Arab stallion to put some fresh blood into their bloodlines was what they needed. Perhaps even a purebred mare or two they could bring to a nearby stud in the spring.

Even now, after purchasing the small farm, there was money enough left for a new foundation sire for their herd. Javert had, after all, always been too proud to accept any of Valjean’s money—and in truth, Valjean didn’t mind the state of things between them. How could he, when Javert took such pride in being able to take Valjean to his tailor for a fine gentleman’s outfit for this journey and their occasional forays to theatre or opera?

If all Javert had been able to offer was a small shack, Valjean would have been happy to spend the rest of his life in that shack with him—but Javert was proud of his apartment on the first floor, proud of being able to take Valjean riding in the Bois de Boulogne on a Sunday, proud of sharing a good dinner or an hour or two whiled away in a café by Javert’s side.

These trappings of a respectable, bourgeois life were everything someone like Javert had known he would never have while growing up. And yet, even once he had attained his position as chief inspector of the prefecture, had Javert enjoyed the rewards of his work before Valjean had come to him?

Javert rarely talked of it, but Valjean knew he had not, and that awareness kept Valjean’s heart full to overflowing whenever they shared a bottle of wine in Javert’s favorite inn late at night.

It was Valjean’s company alone that had brought Javert happiness, and so Valjean had been content to give half of his money to Fantine and use the other half for the running of his small farm.

Still, even though Javert would not take Valjean’s money, he would ride a horse he had bred—and knowing Javert and his particular brand of vanity well, Valjean knew there was little that would please Javert more than to ride in the Bois de Boulogne on a Sunday in his best riding coat on a fiery Arab, drawing admiring eyes.

That night, they stopped at an inn shortly before sunset. Javert made certain to press a coin into the stable lad’s hand to ensure that their horses had everything they needed, running a hand down Noiraude’s legs to check for heat or swelling before he let the boy take her away.

The injury was years old at this point, but Javert had never forgotten what the mare had been through. Javert had always been careful with everything he owned, but there was more to it than a childhood of utmost poverty, Valjean thought with a smile. Javert, even though he would not admit to it, rewarded loyalty.

He’d left both Valjean and Noiraude behind, that day long ago in Montreuil-sur-Mer when he had left for Paris. And Javert had come to regret that choice, for all that he’d coveted his position in Paris.

***

The food in the inn was good and plentiful. There was roasted capon for both of them and a bottle of a Beaune wine that left a pleasing warmth in Valjean’s limbs when they retired to their room.

It was still hot, even though by this point the sun had sunk below the horizon. Javert opened the window wide, no doubt hoping for cooler air, but when Valjean stepped to his side there was no breeze coming in. The air outside was still hot, heavy with the sweet scent of jasmine and honeysuckle.

It was quiet outside, save for the occasional sound from the stable and the croaking of frogs. There had to be a lake nearby, Valjean thought, then saw the distant gleam of water through the line of trees at the far side of the inn’s garden.

No doubt the frogs would keep up their concert tonight, but it was too hot to keep the window closed. Perhaps, after midnight, the temperature would fall after all…

Javert’s arm came around him. For a moment, they stood quietly side by side, looking out into the night and breathing in the heady scent of jasmine.

Then, somewhere nearby, there was the sound of a closing door, and Javert turned towards him with a small smile.

“Let’s go to bed.”

Valjean fell asleep easily despite the heat, but he did not sleep for long. He felt as if he had only just closed his eyes when he woke once more, although judging by the darkness outside their window it had to be close to midnight.

The inn was quiet; the other travelers had to be asleep as well. In the distance, Valjean could still hear the frogs.

The air was stiflingly hot, despite the open window. For a long time, Valjean laid quietly next to Javert, listening to the sound of his breathing. He waited for sleep to come once more—it had been a long day, and neither he nor Javert were used to long days in the saddle.

Still, despite his body’s tiredness, it was too hot to sleep.

After a moment, Valjean sighed soundlessly and slipped out of the bed. Outside, the moon hung over the copse of trees at the back of the inn’s yard. Everything was quiet. The full moon’s light illuminated the garden, gleaming on large tufts of carrot greens and a spreading wilderness of bean bushes.

Valjean pushed the window further open, but even with the night dark and quiet there was no breeze to be found. The air outside was just as stiflingly hot as it was inside. Had it cooled down at all?

Something moved in the darkness behind him. Valjean wasn’t surprised when an arm wrapped around him, Javert’s breath warm against his shoulder.

“Still so hot,” Valjean said quietly, and Javert exhaled in agreement.

Valjean wore only his nightshirt, and when Javert’s hand slipped beneath it, drawing across his stomach, he closed his eyes and sighed. They stood there for long moments, Javert’s skin hot against his own, both of them sticky with sweat.

Valjean thought of pulling off the shirt, of taking Javert’s hand and leading him back to bed, of stroking Javert to a slow, drawn-out climax and being touched in return until all tension melted from his muscles. Maybe then they’d be able to sleep.

Outside, a frog croaked once more. The room filled with the sweet, intense scent of jasmine drifting in through the open window. When Valjean opened his eyes, he saw the moonlight gleaming on the silver bark of the birches at the end of the garden—and beyond, barely visible through the trees, the still water of the lake.

“Want to do something scandalous, sir?” he murmured, half turning in Javert’s embrace so that he could brush his lips against Javert’s cheek, enjoying the roughness of growing stubble as he smiled against Javert’s skin.

“How scandalous can you get, all alone in an inn at night when everyone’s asleep?” Javert’s voice was warm with affection, his eyes shining in the darkness.

Valjean’s smile widened. With one hand, he pushed the window until it swung outward. Before them, the dark garden spread—and behind it, the copse of trees with the tantalizing glimpse of the lake.

They stole through the garden in their nightshirts. Javert’s hand in his, they ran like boys, Valjean’s heart beating in his chest—not from fear that someone might look out of a window overlooking the garden, but because he had never felt as free and as happy as in that moment, and he wanted to remember it forever.

The heat was still suffocating, even with the sun long set. Valjean could feel his shirt sticking to his skin with sweat. When they stepped through the copse of trees, the lake spread before them, smooth as a mirror as it reflected the bright, round shape of the moon hanging above them.

“Ah, so that’s your plant?” Javert reached out and touched Valjean’s cheek. “Are you quite certain you remember your age?”

Despite his words, Javert’s voice was still filled with quiet amusement, and his eyes didn’t lose their warmth even when Valjean took a step back from him and gripped the hem of his shirt.

Holding Javert’s gaze, Valjean pulled off his shirt until he stood naked before Javert in the moonlight.

Javert’s lips quirked as he looked at him. Then Javert pulled off his own shirt, leaving it next to Valjean’s at the shore, and they waded into the lake together.

The ground was soft, studded with just a few stones smoothed by the water. Off to their left, Valjean could see larger rocks jutting forward into the lake.

Frogs were still croaking in the moonlit darkness, and crickets chirped in the distance. There were no other sounds except for the quiet splash of water as they waded deeper into the lake.

The water was soothingly cool, enveloping Valjean like silk. After a few more steps, the ground fell away, and they swam, the water carrying them.

Every now and then, Javert’s arm brushed his. They were both silent. They swam until the song of the frogs became softer, then treaded water, the laker cooler here where the water was deepest.

Valjean turned to his back, floating. Javert’s fingers brushed his, and he knew without turning his head that Javert was floating by his side. Above them, the moon hung in the sky, large and pale.

Weightlessly, they kept floating beneath it, neither of them speaking. And what was there to speak, Valjean thought, curling his fingers lightly around Javert’s. He knew that at this moment in time, everything he felt Javert felt too: the blissful relief of the cool water, the soothing silence of the night, the overwhelming sense of love and rightness that filled his heart to overflowing.

The moon was reflecting off the wet rocks when they finally made their way back to the shore. Valjean led them towards the large rocks he had spied earlier, and when they reached the first, he saw that he had been right in his assumption.

There were other rocks past the first few he had spied. This entire part of the shoreline was made of huge chunks of stone that reached into the lake, forming small islands here and there as well as tiny, hidden pools shielded from view.

It was into one such secret cove that he led Javert, until at last they came ashore on a half-submerged rock, smoothed by centuries of the lake’s water washing over it. Upon it, they spread out on their backs, the moonlight shining down onto their wet skin.

Again Javert’s hand sought out his, fingers curling around his own. Valjean laughed softly and turned to rest against him, drinking in the way the moonlight gleamed on Javert’s bare body.

“That’s what you want.” There was a knowing look in Javert’s eyes.

Valjean had been half-hard since he’d slipped into the lake. Now his body had fully roused, his cock hot as it pressed against Javert’s cold skin.

Instead of an answer, Valjean slid over Javert, shivering in delight at the sensation. They were both wet and cool from the water, slippery like silver fishes basking in the moonlight. After the night of suffocating heat, Valjean could think of nothing more delightful than the sensation of sliding against Javert’s lake-cold skin.

Javert’s lips were cool too when he kissed him. In contrast, his mouth felt scalding hot, drawing a moan from Valjean as he slid his tongue into Javert’s mouth.

Javert’s hands came up then, burying into Valjean’s hair, and Javert held him in place for a long moment, content to be kissed to Valjean’s heart’s delight.

Against his stomach Valjean could feel Javert’s own cock, as hard as his own now and just as hot. Valjean thought of the sensation of Javert in his mouth, the weight of him on his tongue, the taste and the heat of him, and his stomach tightened with sudden need.

Then Javert gently tugged his head up.

“What do you want?” he asked, quietly, earnestly, his hand trailing down Valjean’s back, to curve possessively around a buttock at last.

“You,” Valjean said a little helplessly, his throat suddenly tight as he gazed down at Javert.

It was the truth—Javert was the only thing he’d ever wanted with such overwhelming force. These days, he thought, he’d even be able to live without his freedom—suffer it long enough, at least, to be able to run anew. But to be without love, after having known it…

“You have me.”

Javert’s words were as calm as his eyes. He rolled them around, his hand cupping Valjean’s cheek, thumb stroking along Valjean’s bottom lip.

“Look at the things you make me do.” Javert nodded at the lake, lips quirking, his eyes so dark and soft Valjean thought he might just drown in them. “Look at everything you’ve done to me.”

Javert exhaled then; his arms came around Valjean, and Valjean found himself pulled close, Javert’s face buried against his throat.

Javert’s cock was still hot against Valjean’s skin, Valjean’s own body alight with heat, desire sharp and painful in his stomach like the hunger he’d known for so many long years.

Slowly, Valjean ran his own hand down Javert’s side. “Then let me—”

He couldn’t finish the sentence, his throat too tight with want. Instead, he pushed Javert gently onto his back, leaning over him to admire his lean form stretched out in the silvery moonlight atop the wet rock, as beautiful, as alluring as a creature out of mythology.

Valjean pressed his lips to Javert’s chest, lapping at the drops of lake water that glistened there, then moved back until his legs slid into the lake once more. He held himself afloat by his grip on Javert’s hips, the water cradling him, pleasantly cool. Then he parted his lips for Javert’s cock, enjoying the heat of it against his tongue as he slowly sucked him inside.

Javert quivered against his palms, slick body going tense as a bowstring, then relaxing again as he moaned.

One hand came up to twine into Valjean’s wet hair, and Valjean felt a smile tug at his stretched lips. He pulled back a little until he could lovingly swirl his tongue around the head of Javert’s cock, eager for the taste of him, and was rewarded with another moan, the muscles of Javert’s stomach shifting beneath him as Javert’s breathing quickened.

Valjean floated in the lake, nothing but cool water cradling his own aching cock. The water felt like silk, any movement yielding just the barest hint of stimulation. The sensation was maddening, but Valjean ignored it, drawing Javert deeper into his mouth until he could swallow around him. His spread lips brushed against the coarse hair at the base of Javert’s cock and all he could feel and smell and taste was Javert—sweat and arousal mixing with the coolness of the lake water, the taste of rock and moss and earth.

Javert’s hand trailed down to his nape, drawing small circles there as Javert lay beneath him, breathing heavily with pleasure. It was the only sound Valjean could hear, mingling with the water lapping at the rocks.

Valjean floated, Javert as wet as a fish beneath his hands as Javert’s cock slid against his tongue, stretching his throat. Valjean moved with the rhythm of the water’s gentle current as if they were both two creatures of the lake, with no life and no cares past the beauty of the moonlight.

Javert moaned again when he spilled himself salt-hot in Valjean’s mouth at last, and Valjean savored the taste before he swallowed it. No cold fish-blood this. No cool, mythical creature that would leave together with the moonlight. Javert was all heat, all life, all passion—and tonight, at least, all of it belonged only to Valjean.

Javert sighed when he slipped free from Valjean’s mouth. He sat up and stretched, watching as Valjean climbed atop the rock once more—and then, without warning, Javert stretched out a hand and pushed.

Valjean fell back into the water with a splutter of surprise. A moment later, there was another splash. When Valjean turned around, he found Javert already afloat, a satisfied smile on his face as he surveyed Valjean.

“Come here,” Javert said.

Valjean obeyed instinctively, not quite certain what to make of Javert’s mood—Javert was rarely playful in such a boyish way. When Javert was in the mood to play, more often than not it was paired with the sharp gaze of a hunting cat.

Still, there was no sharpness in his eyes now, and so Valjean swam to his side, not certain whether there was a kiss to be had as reward or whether Javert would push him under water.

Neither was to be his reward, it turned out. Javert’s eyes, soft and possessive in the moonlight, stayed on his as he wrapped one arm around Valjean. Together, they floated silently in the cool lake while Javert’s hand wrapped around Valjean’s cock.

“Shall we blame this on the heat?” Javert asked conversationally while Valjean struggled to breathe and stay afloat at the same time. “You’re right. A scandalous suggestion, even for you.”

Had he been able to form words, Valjean might have protested—it was Javert, after all, who’d come up with one scandalous idea after the other in their years together. Instead, all Valjean could do was to cling to Javert with one arm while treading water, moaning helplessly when Javert’s fingers played across the sensitive head of his cock beneath the dark surface of the lake.

“Still. A suggestion I enjoyed,” Javert said more quietly, his fingers tightening as they returned to running up and down Valjean’s cock, stroking him with firm familiarity.

It sent a shudder through Valjean to think that Javert had indeed touched Valjean’s cock more often than his own, that he knew Valjean’s body more intimately than his own body—

Valjean groaned, back arching in the water as release overwhelmed him, spurt after spurt spilling into the lake as Javert calmly stroked him through it.

In the end, Valjean was weightless, floating against Javert. His entire body was alive with sensation, feeling the coldness of the water and the heat of Javert’s skin against his own with an intensity he’d never felt before. He was glad to be alive, glad to be here, at this moment in time, with Javert—glad that after everything he’d known, he’d been granted a decade of a quiet joy that filled every fiber of his body, knowing only that there was still more happiness to come.

How good it was to be alive. How good it was to be loved.

“We should head back,” Javert said at last, treading water next to him. Above, the moon watched silently. “Think you can sleep now?”

Valjean smiled, filled with helpless love. “Aren’t you glad you came here with me?”

Javert reached out for Valjean’s hand, then pressed a kiss to his wet knuckles.

“I’m glad I came.”

Once they’d made it back to the shore near the copse of trees, they found their shirts where they’d left them. They pulled them on quickly, even though their bodies were still wet, then hurried back through the silent garden towards the open window of their bedroom.

All the windows of the inn were dark. It had to be long past midnight now; with luck, there would be no tales told in the morning of strange apparitions haunting the inn.

Once they’d climbed back inside, a small, disbelieving smile on Javert’s face as he took Valjean’s hand to accept his assistance, they drew off their wet shirts and hung them by the window.

Inside, the air was still warm, but it no longer felt as suffocating with their bodies still cool from the lake.

“I’m glad I came,” Javert said again when they nestled into bed together, naked as they were, Javert’s head coming to rest on Valjean’s shoulder.

Javert reached out for Valjean’s hand, entwining their fingers, and Valjean smiled helplessly in the darkness, well aware that Javert was talking of more than just this secret midnight excursion.

They slept late the next morning. The room was already hot once more when they finally rose, the brightness of the sun outside promising another day of sweltering heat.

There were only three other travelers left in the inn’s taproom when they took their breakfast, but Javert, for once, seemed not inclined to hurry.

“I should have taken another horse,” he said at last when they made their way to the stable.

The horses were both looking well, and after Javert had drawn a critical hand down Noiraude’s legs, he handed the stable boy a five-sou coin.

“She is well,” Valjean said. “She still likes to run.”

“She’s done enough for me.”

Javert gazed at her, running a hand down her nose when she nudged him in expectation, then reached into his pocket for a lump of sugar. He turned back to Valjean with a small smile, and Valjean felt himself flush helplessly—the stable lad was still there, but had they been alone, Javert would have fed him some sugar as well, fingers gentle against Valjean’s lips as the sugar dissolved into sweetness on his tongue.

“No, this will be the last time I take her on such a journey. There’s no need for her to work so hard in this heat.”

Valjean didn’t argue with that. Noiraude had been a young horse when Javert had first ridden her in Montreuil, but much time had passed since then. She had healed well after the abuse she had suffered, but she was no longer a young horse, and despite Javert’s affection for her—or perhaps because of it—certainly deserved to spend many more years on the green meadows of Valjean’s small farm, with no care but a few fine foals to raise.

It was already halfway to noon when they set out, the heat already rising. Ordinarily, on such a warm day, they would have left early in the morning when it was still cooler, but Valjean could not bring himself to regret the night’s excursion.

The road, at least, was pleasant. They spent an hour crossing a forest just when the sun began to reach the zenith, the canopy of leaves shielding them from the worst of the heat. Once they left the forest behind, Javert slowed Noiraude to a walk. Already, Valjean could feel his shirt clinging to his skin, damp with sweat.

Would they be so lucky to find another inn by a lake tonight? He doubted it. 

“We’ll rest soon,” Javert said and ran his hand down Noiraude’s neck. “Next inn we come across.”

They could see buildings in the distance now. Fields of golden grain promised farm houses that would sell them food should the small settlement ahead have no inn catering to travelers. There were others sharing the road with them now as well—two carts drawn by large, heavy-boned horses, and a while later they were passed by three riders. The man at the head was well-dressed, the horse he rode elegant and light-footed, a gray stallion of Arabian stock, mane and tail fluttering in the wind like strands of silk as it raced past them.

Doré showed no reaction to the group of riders, but Noiraude shook her head and tried to hasten after them.

“Did you see that horse?” Javert’s eyes gleamed as he calmed Noiraude.

“I doubt we’ll bring back one like that,” Valjean said wryly. “Still. A yearling of good breeding, and in a few years’ time, that might be you.”

“Is that why you think I agreed to come along?” Javert laughed. “I’m content enough with what I have. This is all your idea.”

Javert ran his hand up Noiraude’s neck, who swished her tail back and forth, then pinned back her ears when Doré came too close for her liking.

“And I’m glad you’re indulging my ideas, sir,” Valjean said mildly, suppressing a smile.

Give it a few years, and Javert would have forgotten about this conversation—and be happy enough to ride whatever fine stallion Valjean might find on this journey.

This was what was waiting for them, Valjean thought as Doré lengthened his strides beneath him. Year after year with Javert by his side, the seasons passing with shared walks, shared rides, shared bottles of wine and evenings by a fire.

Even in Montreuil, when he had still been mayor, he could not remember ever having felt so light, unencumbered by any fear.

***

Valjean had wondered whether the heat would eventually culminate in a storm bringing rain and thunder, but when they reached the small settlement an hour later, the sun was still burning down and the sky was a bright blue, not a single cloud in sight.

A good year to make hay—if the heat broke in the next few days, and rain followed. There’d been a good second cut already safely stored in the farm’s hayloft, and as long as the meadows received enough water, they’d be able to harvest a third cutting, more than enough to get the farm through winter.

Noiraude snorted and shook her head again, pawing the ground in impatience as they held next to a magnificent linden tree in the yard of the inn.

It was easy enough to see the reason for her agitation—the fine, gray stallion who had overtaken them on the road was drinking from a bucket of water. His saddle had been taken off, and his coat shone in the light of the sun, muscles playing beneath his skin as he lifted his head. He arched his neck and stomped the ground, then curled back his upper lip, baring his teeth as he inhaled a scent.

Javert ran his hand down Noiraude’s neck again. “A foal out of that one would be a fine thing,” he said as he slid out of the saddle, keeping a hand on Noiraude’s reins as the stallion greeted her with a low, interested nicker.

A stable lad appeared to take their horses, but before Javert could give him any orders, the inn’s door opened and out came the men they had seen earlier on the road.

“A stunning horse,” Valjean agreed, a small smile tugging on his lips as he imagined how fine Javert would look on the stallion—and how very pleased he’d be to show off such a horse on a Sunday ride through the Bois de Boulogne. 

It was a fine animal—elegantly built, with long legs, an elegant neck and an expressive head with large, dark eyes. There was little gray left on him—except for where the dark skin shone through at eyes and nostrils, he was a nearly perfect white.

“I’d hate to part from Noiraude, but for a foal out of that stallion, I’d be happy to let her retire to the farm,” Javert said, stroking Noiraude’s neck while she pawed at the ground, just as distracted by the stallion before them as Javert was.

“Then you are in no danger of losing your old mare,” someone said behind them.

When they turned, they found themselves face to face with one of the men who’d overtaken them on the road—the gray Arab’s rider, wearing an expensive riding coat and silken cravat.

There was a small, unpleasant smile on the man’s face as he eyed Javert. Valjean, although Javert had dressed him well for the journey and he’d been treated like a gentleman rather than a servant by those they’d encountered, had apparently already been dismissed as of no consequence.

Valjean could feel Javert bristle at the insult to Noiraude, but even so his tone was polite as he addressed the man.

“Are you the stallion’s owner, monsieur? We are on our way to look at some Arabian horses and couldn’t help but notice him.”

“Indeed,” the man said, the unpleasant smile still on his face.

There was a coldness in his voice Valjean had heard directed towards him many times in the past; he knew even now this conversation would not go well, and yet could think of no way to interfere.

“You won’t find many like him in France. Emmon is bedouin-bred, come to me from the Pasha of Tripoli.” The man’s eyes went from Javert to Noiraude, then back again. This time he did not bother to hide his disdain. “And I’m afraid you must not be aware of the worth of an Arabian horse if you think I’d let him cover that tired old creature.”

Valjean could feel the fury at such blatant dismissal boiling in Javert beneath the surface, and felt his own temper rise in turn. Still, Valjean managed to hold his peace, just barely—Javert would no doubt be even more insulted if Valjean were to make a scene here than by the man’s derisive words.

“I know the value of a good horse well enough.” Coldness had crept into Javert’s own voice, and a fury hidden well enough that it took their long years of closeness to hear the way it vibrated through his voice.

“I know the value of a courageous heart, and life-long loyalty. I pity the man who doesn’t know it.”

He touched Noiraude’s neck lightly and then turned away with a curt nod to Valjean, who followed him. There was a well by the side of the stable, and Javert made him water the horses there before he went off without another word. When he returned, he still held himself stiffly, jaw clenched and his eyes bright with hidden anger, but he carried a wrapped parcel and a bottle of wine which he stowed away in his saddle bags.

There were no further words, but Valjean didn’t need orders to know that their plans had changed. He mounted when Javert did, and followed him out of the inn’s yard, away from the promised rest and food.

They rode quietly for a while, the heat rising together with the sun until the air shimmered above the fields of golden wheat. They had left the road they had traveled on all morning, but Valjean did not ask where they were going as Javert led him down a narrow track of grass between the fields.

At last, they entered a copse of woods, the horses regaining their spirits in the welcome shade, their strides lengthening. A few minutes later, Javert halted and dismounted, and Valjean smiled as he saw what stretched before them.

Javert had found them another lake, the water shaded by trees—willows and birches and a gnarled old apple tree growing along the shore, the lake silent and undisturbed save for a pair of ducks at the far end.

“Let the horses rest,” Javert said. “It’s too hot. We’ll stay until the sun is no longer quite as high.”

When they’d taken off bridles and saddles and the horses had been left to graze, Javert spread a blanket by the shore and unwrapped the parcel he’d brought from the inn. There was a loaf of fresh bread, a terrine of cold rabbit, mutton cutlets, a yellow triangle of cheese, two peaches and a small apple tart sticky and golden with the baked apple juices.

“How is that for a lunch?” Javert said. “I much prefer the company here.”

Valjean felt the smile that stretched across his face, aching with love.

“So do I, sir,” he said quietly.

Javert, it seemed, was in no hurry to continue their journey. After they’d eaten, they both stripped off their clothes and waded into the water.

Had he ever been as happy? Valjean couldn’t say, but he knew in his heart that even if they brought back no yearling to the farm, the long journey would be worth it just for these moments alone.

The water was blissfully cool against his skin. Valjean floated for a long moment, closing his eyes against the glare of the sun. Then something touched his hand, and he smiled without opening his eyes, his fingers curling around Javert’s as they floated together.

The horses were still contentedly grazing when they came out of the water. There was still some of the wine left in the bottle, and they shared it as they rested on the blanket, waiting for the sun to dry their skin. Javert didn’t speak; he hadn’t spoken since they’d waded into the lake together, and even during their meal he hadn’t mentioned the unpleasant encounter at the inn.

Valjean found himself watching Javert carefully. Was he still angry? He had every right to be, of course—still, his behavior had not been what Valjean had expected. For ten years they’d shared a bed; Valjean knew well enough when something was bothering Javert, and he knew well enough how to ease that burden. Kind words were rarely the way—and Javert had been exceedingly kind today.

It was strange, this sudden shift in mood. Valjean could deal with Javert’s anger—indeed, had long been drawn to Javert’s harshness. Any other day, Valjean thought, they’d have left that encounter behind with a few red, hot welts on his own backside, a release of emotion that was as blissful in its own way as a release of pleasure.

Today, though, Javert wasn’t furious. He wasn’t happy with how the day had gone, Valjean was aware of that, but instead, Javert seemed almost distracted by something.

“We rode past a few hazelnut bushes,” Valjean murmured and turned to face Javert at last, running a tentative hand up his side.

A small smile tugged at Javert’s lips. “Did we?”

“I could cut a switch, sir.”

It was an offer, and Javert knew it. Valjean watched as Javert drew in a deep breath, his eyes suddenly turning sharp for a moment before he sighed and relaxed once more.

“No need for it.”

Javert was quiet again after that, and Valjean could think of nothing else to offer. Javert was in a strange mood indeed if he had no interest in that suggestion. Had the stranger’s open derision truly wounded him so deeply?

An arm wrapped around Valjean’s side at last, and Valjean found himself pulled close against Javert, Javert’s lips brushing his temple.

Javert sighed quietly.

“I wonder… Have I taken good care of you? I’ve been selfish, maybe. We could leave Paris behind, live on your farm...”

Valjean felt his heart beating against Javert’s, his earlier confusion at Javert’s strange mood now easing a little. Was this what had been on Javert’s mind all along, while he’d thought Javert still angry from the encounter at the inn?

“How could I ask that of you?” Valjean said. “I know you’d be unhappy. I’d never ask you to leave the prefecture for me.”

“Other men retire. Why shouldn’t I?”

Now Valjean had to suppress a small laugh. “You’re at no age to retire, sir,” he said lovingly. “How would you bear having only a farmhand or two to strike terror into?”

“I’d have you, wouldn’t I?” With a small, self-satisfied smile on his lips, Javert ran his hand through Valjean’s hair, tightening his grip momentarily. “How would you bear having my attention focused on just you all day?”

Valjean shivered with helpless longing, unable to hide how much the idea excited him. To have Javert with him all day, every day, not a single hour to be shared with the prefecture...

“I’d like that.” His voice was rough, and Javert laughed gently at him.

“Ah, sweetness… I know you would.”

Javert’s fingers curled into the damp hair at his nape, the sun hot on his wet skin. Valjean felt his eyes stinging once more at Javert’s open affection.

Neither of them spoke for a while, and Valjean found himself considering Javert’s words again. It was pleasant to rest here by Javert’s side. Would it not be just as pleasant to spend the many years to come just so on their farm?

Any frustration Javert might feel at having to leave his old life behind Valjean felt more than ready to divert. They both knew well how to deal with the other’s moods at this point.

And yet, Javert had worked hard to get to where he was. Valjean knew that, better than any other. Javert might believe himself capable of leaving it all behind, but Valjean was not so certain. At the heart of it, they were very different men. How happy could Javert be, without that daily proof of his respectability when he entered the prefecture, every man hastening to do his bidding?

That was a hunger Valjean couldn’t satisfy, no matter how much he might want to. And was it not sweeter to know Javert happy, even when Valjean had to share him with the prefecture, than to share every moment of every day in the awareness that he was the cause for whatever regrets or doubts Javert might be feeling?

They slept for a while in the summer’s heat, and when they woke, shared what was left of the wine and the last of the apple tart. It was still hot, but the sun no longer glared down from right above them. When they saddled their horses and continued their journey, the horses felt rested and fresh despite the heat, and they rode into the evening, the sun sinking and the shadows lengthening.

The castle of Gueures was situated close to the river Saâne, near the small village of Gueures. So close to the ocean, the land was flat, and Valjean knew at once why De Tocqueville had chosen this place for his breeding program, for there were meadows spreading as far as the eye could see.

Herds of horses were grazing on some of the meadows. The castle, a large mansion of orange stone, was lit up by the last rays of the sun that was now sinking behind the horizon. When they made their way towards it, a group of yearlings cantered towards them, following their progress on the other side of a fence.

A promising greeting, Valjean thought and watched with a silent smile how Javert, who’d been quite vocal about Valjean’s chances of success, couldn’t take his eyes off them.

The yearlings were shaggy, manes ragged and dusty, and many of them covered in bite marks. It was a herd of young stallions, delighting in rough play, but all of them, despite their varying stages of growth, with elegant heads, long limbs and strong haunches, most of them a dark gray that would turn white as the years passed.

When they reached the large yard, Javert followed the porter towards the wing of the building that housed guests, while Valjean in turn took hold of the horses and allowed a boy to lead him into the stable.

Inside, it was slightly cooler. It appeared they had arrived in time for the evening’s ration of oats, for the horses stabled in boxes inside were bent over their mangers, barely even turning an ear towards them as they passed.

One horse was being curried by a groom, damp saddle cloth hung out to air in front of his box, and Valjean realized in sudden surprise that it was the stallion they’d encountered on the road earlier that day.

“A fine horse,” he said to the stable master who’d come towards them and introduced himself as they passed the stallion.

“That’s Emmon,” the man said. “He stood at stud at Du Pin for a score of years. De Bony now owns him—we have a few fine mares out of him in one of our breeding herds.”

“Any colts you’d part with?” Valjean asked.

“Ah, you’re the gentleman come to look for a young stallion?” the stable master said. “The one Guillaume wrote to me about?”

“You must know his red Arab. We’re looking for a young stallion to take over his duties in a few years’ time. Perhaps a purebred mare or two as well, if there’s any you can part with.” Valjean turned around for a moment, studying the white stallion as if he’d just seen him for the first time. “I quite like that stallion we just passed… Any colts out of that one?”

“He has expensive tastes, that De Bony,” the stable master muttered. “Ah, your eyes don’t betray you, sir. It’s a fine animal. There’s one colt you might like—no thanks to De Bony though. Can you believe that man ran the Pompadour stud? Nearly ruined it. Noble beasts, they had, but the castle burned down almost completely while he was in charge. And do you know where that man was when those poor horses almost burned?”

The man didn’t wait for an answer as he snorted and turned, leading Valjean to two empty boxes. “Chasing women all over France. They got rid of him soon after, but the damage was done. Still, Emmon’s a fine horse. We have no colts of his, but if you like his type, there’s a horse or two I can show you tomorrow.”

“I’d appreciate it,” Valjean said with a smile.

Noiraude snorted as Valjean led her into the box, pawing at the fresh straw in agitation that seemed to have no reason. Even though Doré had been given the box next to her, Noiraude refused to settle down, whinnying several times until the low nicker from Emmon at the other end of the stable answered her.

When he’d taken off bridles and saddles and the horses had been brushed down, Valjean hesitated. No doubt Javert was already waiting for him—and after the long day, Valjean was looking forward to a chance to wash and the dinner awaiting them.

Then Noiraude whinnied again, pressing herself against the wood that divided her box from Doré’s while the gelding ignored her, his nose deep in his hay even as the mare began urinating.

“Those paddocks out there,” Valjean said when he’d flagged down one of the stable lads sweeping the yard. “Might I put my mare out for the night? She’s not settling down inside, and I’m afraid she’ll injure her leg if she goes on like this.”

The boy studied him briefly, taking in his good clothes, and then nodded readily. “Put her out if you like, sir. I’ll tell the stable master; he won’t mind. All our horses are still out on the meadows for the summer.”

“Thank you.” With a smile, Valjean pressed a coin into the boy’s hand. “Make sure she has enough hay for the night.”

Valjean left Noiraude on the small paddock where she busied herself with eradicating the few weeds that had managed to grow by the fence posts since it had last been in use.

He’d half feared that Javert might have run into De Bony again, but Javert made no mention of it, and there was only one other couple of visitors to the stud taking their supper at the same time as they did.

The fare was hearty and plentiful, and the wine good; by the time they retired, Valjean felt pleasantly full and tired. The room they’d been given was nicer than the rooms of the inns they’d slept in during their journey, and was situated at the back of the house, so that from their window they saw the green slope of a meadow crested by trees rising before them. Everything was perfectly quiet save for the quiet rustle of leaves and a bird singing somewhere nearby.

They fell asleep as they so often did, bare skin pressed to bare skin, Valjean’s body still damp with sweat and a smile on his mouth as he breathed in the scent of Javert.

When he woke not much later, the room was perfectly dark, and Javert was asleep.

Silently, Valjean rose and grabbed his trousers and shirt. They’d left the window open so that cool night air might enter, and Valjean slipped out through it before he hastily put on his clothes.

Outside, everything was silent. The trees at the end of the meadow spreading before him were a dark shape against the night sky, and when he turned to look back at the house, there was no light to be seen in any of the windows.

It had to be long past midnight. In two or three hours, the sun would start to rise, and with it the kitchen would wake. For now, everyone was asleep. Even the stable was completely quiet.

When Valjean moved past Doré’s box, he saw that the gelding was asleep, stretched out on his side in the straw. Valjean continued, careful not to make any noise, until at last he came to the box of the white Arab stallion. Emmon was asleep on his legs, head hanging low, but he roused when Valjean stepped to his door.

Very slowly, Valjean worked the metal bolt open that held the door locked. When the door quietly swung open, Valjean released a breath of relief.

The stable was clean and clearly well-cared for, but he’d been half afraid that the hinges might have rusted and protested with a screech, alerting a stable boy. Instead, the stable was still silent, nothing moving in the darkness but Valjean and the white stallion.

Slowly, Emmon took a step forward, his nose touching Valjean’s hand. It was too dark to be able to see clearly, but the stallion’s ears were pointing curiously forward.

It was a good thing they were both strangers here, Valjean thought wryly. In his home stable, he doubted that the horse would have accepted a stranger’s presence so quietly.

Then Emmon’s head rose and his upper lip curled back, baring his teeth as he breathed in a scent. A moment later, he stepped out of his box, ignoring Valjean as he moved through the stable.

Valjean followed slowly, remaining in the shadows as Emmon walked through the corridor past mostly empty boxes until they came to the door that led to paddocks and meadows. Due to the oppressive summer heat, it had been left wide open so that the cooler night air could fill the stable.

Emmon paused again, scenting the air once more before he voiced his interest with a low nicker.

Something moved in the gloom beyond the fence before them. Emmon nickered again. Then, breaking into a quick trot, he jumped the fence in a smooth, fluid movement and walked towards Noiraude. For a moment, the two horses stood head to head, scenting each other, then Noiraude raised her tail and turned in invitation, back legs widening.

Emmon nosed at her back before he reared up to cover her, and Valjean turned away with a smile.

Everything was still dark and quiet when he returned. He slipped inside through the open window without making a sound, then quickly stripped before joining Javert in the bed.

Valjean held his breath as he drew the blanket over him, wondering if he’d disturbed Javert, but Javert’s breathing didn’t change. After a moment, Valjean relaxed and closed his eyes, still smiling.

All he’d done was open a door. Now nature would surely see to the rest.

***

In the morning, before breakfast, they went to check on the horses. As soon as they entered the stable, one of the stable lads came towards them in obvious distress.

Valjean felt a sudden pang of conscience when Javert’s strides lengthened—he should have realized that Javert’s first thought would be that something terrible had happened to Noiraude during the night.

Instead, when they came to a halt by the paddock, they saw Noiraude and Emmon standing side by side, heads pressed together, the stallion’s shaft still dropped.

“I caught him atop her, moments ago.” The boy’s face was pale. “I’m sorry; I don’t know how it happened. The stallion’s box was open. Master will have my head when he finds out I forgot to make sure it was bolted properly.”

“It wasn’t your fault,” Valjean said automatically, his heart suddenly beating faster.

Here was something he hadn’t taken into consideration. Someone would be blamed for the open door. Could Valjean argue that the stallion might have opened the door himself? There was one mare in the stable that housed the fire horses that had learned that trick at a young age and would every now and then walk blithely through the yard in the morning if someone forgot to close the second bolt they’d been forced to add to her door.

“I was the last one in the stables,” the boy said, crestfallen. “It was my turn to feed the evening ration of hay.”

“I’m afraid it was my fault, in that case,” a different voice said.

When they turned, Valjean found that the stable master had joined their conversation.

“I was checking on one of the mares shortly before midnight,” the man said apologetically. “She’s due to foal any day and had been quite lethargic in the evening. I thought the foal might come during the night. She was asleep, with no sign of contractions, but I was looking in on the other horses as well before I retired again, to make certain they’d all received their evening hay.”

He gave the boy a small nod, who was still pale, although his shoulders had relaxed in relief.

“You see, I was the last to look after the horses. I must not have closed Emmon’s door properly.”

“Or he opened it himself,” Valjean said, trying to keep his relief from showing. “There’s a horse I know who learned that trick.”

“I assume you didn’t bring your mare to have her covered by one of our stallions?” the stable master asked. “I’m truly very sorry—he’s a fine stallion, Emmon, bedouin-bred. If you were wanting to breed your mare, I assure you Emmon’s as fine as any of our own Arabs at stud here.”

“I’m afraid we’d only planned to look at your colts,” Valjean said, willing his racing heart to calm, “but there’s no harm done. I can see he’s a fine horse. If you’re willing to draw up papers for the covering, in case there’s a foal next spring, we’ll not talk of it again.”

The man clasped his shoulder in relief, and Valjean at last dared a glance at Javert.

No wonder the stable master was so relieved by Valjean’s reaction. Javert’s brows were drawn together as he looked at the two horses, and when he turned his gaze on Valjean, Valjean nearly confessed all then and there.

Instead, he helped the stable master halter the stallion and lead him back to his box, drawing the man into a conversation about the herd of yearlings they wanted to take a look at later while ignoring Javert’s gaze which he could feel resting heavily on his nape.

“As for a pure-bred mares,” the stable master said when they closed the box once more, the bolt firmly in place, “I might have one for you… We don’t part with our brood mares lightly, and when we do, they fetch a good price. But there’s a mare the count might let go for less… Pure-bred, out of Téméraire and one of M. Gliocho’s mares. Thing is, she’s sixteen already, and hasn’t taken the past two years. If you’re willing to take the risk, she might yet give you a few good foals.”

“Or we might feed her through the winters for nothing,” Javert said.

The stable master nodded. “Indeed. As I said, there’s a risk. But if you’re willing to take that risk—she’s of a good line. Téméraire stood at stud at Du Pin and Auxerre for many years.”

“Let’s take a look at her,” Valjean said, smiling at Javert. “One horse more to feed won’t make much of a difference, after all.”

Javert was quiet during breakfast. Afterward, when the stable master took them to the large meadow where the young stallions roamed free, he didn’t mention the events of the morning.

The yearlings were a rambunctious lot, although they came eagerly at the stable master’s call.

“Any you like in particular?” the man asked.

The colts were at an awkward stage, growth spurts leading to hindquarters standing a hand taller than withers, or too-large heads balancing on still undeveloped necks.

Still, there was a gray colt Valjean liked the look of, with intelligent eyes, hard hooves, long legs and a shoulder set at an angle that promised speed and endurance, as well as a curious chestnut with an impressive canter and good legs.

“You have good eyes.” The stable master obviously approved of his choice. “The gray is out of Ghandoura, the count’s favorite mare. All her foals have turned into very fine horses—and the gray’s sire is desert-bred, the count’s own Shaklawie Amdam. They say he was the favorite gazelle hunting horse of the Pasha of Mossul, faster than any other horse.”

“Will the count want to part with it?” Valjean asked.

“Were it a filly, we’d have kept her for our own. But as it is, we have stallions enough, and already too many mares of that bloodline to make a stallion of the same feasible. He’ll part with that colt.”

He wouldn’t come cheaply, was what Valjean heard, but then he’d known that. Purchasing an adult stallion like Emmon in his prime was out of the question—but Valjean had come aware of the price a yearling of good breeding would fetch.

It was an investment well worth it, after all. If all went well, the colt would be their small herd’s foundation sire for the next two decades.

And, perhaps, when he didn’t spend the spring with his mares, ensuring a fine crop of foals for the coming year, they’d spend many of those coming years riding through the Bois de Boulogne side by side, Javert on a fiery Arab stallion that would draw the eyes of many.

It would please Javert, Valjean knew that, whatever Javert might claim now. And in turn, Valjean would be pleased.

“And the chestnut?”

“Dam’s sire is Massoud,” the stable master said. “The chestnut was her first foal; can’t tell you much about what she passes on yet. Still, I liked the horses out of Massoud I’ve seen. The chestnut’s sire is our own Sheikh-Daher. Again, this is his first crop of foals—they all have good hooves and legs, and I can tell you that Sheikh-Daher was as gentle as a dove when we first broke him to the saddle, and is gentle with the mares as well. We’re keeping most of his first crop of fillies, but there’s no reason for us to bring up a colt out of a young stallion. Still, he’d serve your purpose well, and he’ll no doubt keep passing on those fine legs.”

A colt out of an unproven stallion and an unproven mare would be more affordable, Valjean pondered. In truth, both colts would serve their purpose well—were indeed a great indulgence for a farm such as theirs. Even the red Arab stallion had been an acquisition the old farmer had made by pure luck when he’d bought the stallion from an officer fallen on hard times who’d returned with the horse from Egypt.

“What do you think?” Valjean asked Javert.

Javert’s eyes rested on the herd of rowdy youngsters. It was hard to tell whether he’d at last forgotten about the earlier events and whatever suspicions he might harbor—but even Javert wasn’t immune to the charms of the frolicking colts, elegant necks arching and tails carried high like banners in the wind.

“It’s your choice,” Javert said evenly. “The horses are your pastime.”

Valjean smiled a little. Pastime… A good word for the bolt-hole he’d once been ordered to find—a farm he’d bought under a false name, with a forged passport, so that he’d have a hiding place if something were ever to happen to Javert.

Still, ten years had passed since that day, and Valjean’s disguise had held. Ten years they’d shared in Javert’s apartment, untroubled by Valjean’s past.

Perhaps it was at last time to forget old fears and strive to make the most of all the years that remained to them.

***

The mare Valjean bought on the spot. She was as the man had promised—too old to grow accustomed to carrying a rider, and a risk for a breeder as she hadn’t taken the last two years. Still, the price was very fair, and perhaps she’d like the attentions of their own red Arab better. It was a risk Valjean was prepared to take for the chance of a solid foundation stock of two or three purebred foals.

With luck, there’d be a filly or two they could keep. And in a few years, when they were grown, their new Arab colt would be grown as well…

Would it not be a joyful way to spend their old age, if Javert indeed felt ready to retire to the farm in time?

Or, if he didn’t, how pleased Javert would be to ride a fiery Arab stallion in his finest riding coat on a Sunday. It would be a sight to behold…

It was that thought, more than anything, that made Valjean settle at last on the expensive gray colt. How could he resist the thought of Javert, resplendent on a stallion like Emmon—and he’d noticed the way Javert’s eyes had kept returning to the gray colt most of all during the hour they’d spent on the meadow, watching the yearlings play.

***

Once more the day had dawned hot and bright when they said their goodbyes on the following day, each of them now riding while leading a second horse.

The gray colt had at first been confused by what was asked of him, but after the first hour had accepted that he was to stay by Doré’s side, the golden gelding showing his disapproval with bared teeth every time the young stallion tried to overtake him.

Coquette, the white brood mare, was docile, walking by Noiraude’s side as if she’d never done anything else even though she was leaving her herd behind. As they followed the run of the river Saâne, she whinnied once, calling for her friends, then seemed to accept the fact that she was leaving her old home behind, watching the vista spreading open before them with curious eyes.

They rode slowly out of consideration for the older mare and the colt, both of whom were not accustomed to long journeys. Still, in the evening when they stopped at an inn, neither was winded, and Javert drew his hand in admiration down their necks, finding not a single hair wet with sweat.

“You’ll be a fine horse one day,” he told the colt, who nosed at his hand curiously, then seemed surprised when Javert’s hand opened, revealing a lump of sugar.

The colt sniffed at it politely at first but didn’t understand that the sugar was edible. Only with Javert’s encouragement did he finally accept the treat, and he raised his head in surprise and pleasure, upper lip curling back as as he tried to place the taste.

“Pretty boy,” Javert murmured to the colt, stroking his neck, then went to reward Coquette with another sugar cube.

Valjean watched quietly, warmth filling him as he thought once more of the years that were to come. The gray had been the right choice; he knew that now as he saw them together. A fine horse, for a fine man.

What a vision these two would be.

At last, when the horses had all been tended to and there was silence in the stable once more, he found himself pushed against the side of a box, Javert slipping a lump of sugar between Valjean’s lips.

He let it dissolve on his tongue, sweetness spreading in his mouth, his heart pounding in his chest at the sensation of Javert’s body against his own.

It had been another long day in the saddle, and there was a room and dinner waiting for them. Still, Javert seemed to be in no hurry, his thumb tracing over Valjean’s bottom lip before he kissed him slowly and deeply, as if they had all the time in the world.

And they did. They truly did. These days, there was nothing to fear but that a stable boy might surprise them in the stable.

Valjean smiled when Javert drew back, and Javert returned his smile, the pad of his thumb running over Valjean’s bottom lip once more.

“Tomorrow, we’ll pass that lake again,” Javert said, and Valjean’s stomach tightened with sudden want in response.

“Would you like to rest there for a while?”

“I would, sir,” Valjean breathed, agonizingly aware of the pressure of his hardening cock against his trousers.

Javert’s smile widened. Then he looked at Noiraude with slow deliberation before his eyes returned to Valjean.

“That’s what I thought,” he said. “And this time, you’ll cut a hazelnut switch when we’re there.”

Valjean swallowed and nodded, resisting the urge to twine his arms around Javert’s neck and pull him closer.

“Did you really think I wouldn’t know?” Javert asked.

Valjean shook his head. Javert sighed, although there was perhaps more laughter than exasperation in it.

“Whatever shall I do with you? I can’t leave you alone even for a moment…”

“Then don’t leave me alone,” Valjean said, still smiling despite the threat of the hazelnut switch—which truly wasn’t much of a threat at all, despite the day’s riding that would be to follow.

He’d expected another reminder of the switch in return, but instead Javert’s eyes softened.

“I’m considering it,” Javert said quietly, and Valjean knew he was talking of more than just the past night’s deception.

Then Javert leaned in again, and Valjean allowed himself to be pressed back against the rough wood of Noiraude’s box. There was no sound but that of horses contentedly chewing their hay as Javert kissed him once more until Valjean forgot all about the journey to come, the excitement of the threat of the switch, even the thoughts of the future, with Javert retiring one day, perhaps, to be by his side.

All that mattered now was the joy of what he had in this moment—and that alone was more than he’d ever dreamed possible.