Title: To Receive
Work ID: 34721287
Author: Faerdhinen
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Hurt Valjean, Fluff, Angst, Nightmares, Hurt/Comfort, Valjean Needs a Hug
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

 


After living with Valjean for months, Javert noticed something peculiar of him.



The man is always kind, gentle, soft smiles and words of reassurance freely given to everyone around him, even to such a foul man such as himself.



Yet, he always have no thoughts to his own comfort. He made drastic actions time and time again, all in an attempt to made someone happy.


 


Someone that's not himself.


 


Javert had seen it happen. Both with him and next with Cosette. 



Jean Valjean would always forsake his happiness for others, ever smiling with his words of reassurances that he too, is happy inside.



But tonight Javert knew that it was all just a lie.


 


Tonight Javert woke to the sound of Valjean sobbing with distress, curled around himself as he continued to weep.



Immediately, fear gripped his heart. Was he the reason the memory of Toulon resurface?



But as he reached out to calm the distraught man beside him, Valjean instinctively nuzzled closer to him.


 


"J-Javert… don't leave me…"  his voice was small, shallow, afraid. Never in his decades of chasing the man had he heard him like this.



He wrapped his hands around the smaller man's head, hugging him close to his chest as he continued to sob.



Valjean is still dreaming, he's sure. He stroked his back in reassurance. This man who bore the world upon his shoulders were now so small, so delicate in his embrace.



The fact that it took him this long to notice it made anger rose in his chest. But he set those thoughts away for now.


 


He realized now that Valjean had probably always sought for comfort. He yearned to be cared for. But as always, the man puts everyone above himself.



He wanted someone to tell him that it is alright. Someone that would reassure him that they'd be there beside him even in his darkest days.



What a fool he was to have never noticed it.



When the morn comes, he'll tell him. Javert decided as he lulled the distraught man in his embrace to sleep.


 

 

Valjean woke with a start. He was laying on Javert's chest with the man's hand cradling his head.  When did this happen? They had just gone to bed like usual. There should be no reason for Valjean to be in this position, unless…

 

It was then everything clicked, he remembered the night, the night where he dreamt of Javert leaving him, leaving him alone in the darkness. He remembered feeling the hand on his hair stroke him, telling him words of reassurances into his ear. And as his mind worked upon what happened the previous night, Javert stretched under him and opened his eyes and every instinct in Valjean told him to flee.

 

 Don’t let Javert see you like this  , it had told him, and he obeyed.

 

 

Ah, he was already awake. That's good. Unfortunately though, it seemed like Valjean's first instinct in this situation is to flee. Truly a saint among men. But he would not allow it this time and resolutely grabbed his wrists with his hands.

 


"You're such a fool." He said in an exasperated breath and pulled him in an embrace.


 


"It's alright you know." 
He whispered as softly as possible as he stroked the man's back. He felt the scars that littered them, touching them with reverence and care.


 

"Why do you insist on torturing yourself so, Jean?" The man under him jerked at his question, but he did not pull away. How could he, when all he wished the most in life is care.

 

"You saved so many people. Why not yourself?" His voice is calm, he kissed Valjean's ear and he felt the man shivered against him

 

"It's alright to ask for comfort. You've shown me yourself." Javert continued his little monologue. He was not accustomed to comfort other people but now the words come so easily to him.

 

"It's alright to be weak." And at that, he heard a sob came from under him, the hands that were limp at his side earlier closing around his back and hugged him as tightly as possible.

 

 

No. This is wrong. He shouldn't be doing this. He had to be strong. There's no place for weakness.  Javert needed him. Cosette needed him. It wasn't his place to ask this of him. He knew that, and yet, why was it so hard to let go.

 

Why wouldn't his hands let go. He shouldn't be the one being comforted here. That was supposed to be his duty. Yet why wouldn't his tears stop, why is it that he couldn't help but to sob even louder as Javert whispered in his ear like this? And most of all, why did it felt so right to be embraced like this?

 

Valjean didn't know. He should be ashamed of wanting this. Wanting to be held and told that everything's alright. It was what he did to Javert and Cosette back then when they needed him the most and they deserved those kind and gentle words, but not him. This wasn't what he deserved. But still he couldn't let go. He didn't want to let go.

 

It's alright to be weak,   his words echoed in mind, and for the first time in his life, Valjean wept openly. 

 

Javert smiled as he heard him. "That's right, Jean. You can be weak with me. You can ask for comfort if you wished. There’s no need to hide behind your gentle smiles." He pulled back from the embrace, stopping mid sentence and held Valjean's face in his hands.

 

The man is an absolute mess, drops and drops of tears falling freely from his eyes. "I'm here." He finished and leaned in, claiming Valjean's lips with his.

 

The older man continued to sob, but he clutched to Javert's back nonetheless, allowing himself to part his lips for him. He kept their lips together until Valjean's sobs dissipated, and once they did, he pulled back.

 

When Javert did so, he saw Valjean truly smile for the first time.  It wasn't the gentle and kind smile that he gave everyone. It was a smile he had never seen before, it was a smile that Javert was sure Valjean had never shared with anyone.

 


Then he saw his lips moved,


 


 Thank you. 


 


Valjean mouthed the words, and Javert gave him a sigh and took him in his embrace again.
