Title: Torture, Reflection (A Recognized Philosophy)
Work ID: 737467
Author: SilverBird13
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Madeleine/Javert, Javert/Jean Valjean/Madeleine, Javert/Valjean's issues
Additional Tags: Dissociative Identity Disorder, I think?, Slash, Madeleine Era, Madeleine is an actual character, Who is kind of creepy
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

It always begins with the toll of the midnight church bell, shattering the glass of silence around the prosperous part of Montreuil-sur-Mer.
Midnight (mid-night), and all the shadows of Hell arrive to cordially lacerate Monsieur Madeleine.Madeleine does not know his first name, his birthdate, what he called his parents as a child or, in fact, if he even had parents.
The bell strikes through Valjean’s dreams (sometimes it saves him), dragging him back to a sweat-soaked body adrift in a simple bed still too fine to hold all his transgressions (all of it is too fine).Did Madeleine play piano?  Sit a horse?  Chase his siblings?
Valjean sits up, breathes like a cart horse newly harnessed, and waits to be overtaken (swallowed whole by this man who has never known true hunger).Did Madeleine ever fall in love?
Though this torment is a nightly occurrence, Valjean is always surprised by the hands that grasp him through his nightshirt (hands so oddly like his own).“And do you find Montreuil-sur-Mer to your liking, Inspector?”
Slowly, ever so slowly (for Monsieur le Maire is a man of great patience), Valjean feels the phantom hands begin to stroke him, not reverently (though Monsieur le Maire is a pious man), but with too much familiarity, too much fellowship for his liking.The gruff curl of Javert’s voice.  The leather glove on his rapier.  The beat of his boots on the cobblestones.
It is the queer heat, the boil below his belly, that amazes Valjean, sends him over the edge (for who would think Monsieur le Maire would have the fires of Hell burning inside him, beneath that neat waistcoat, that modest cravat?).Has Madeleine ever known the hands of another on his body, felt himself come undone like one of his rosaries after a prayer?
After it passes (for it always does) Valjean dutifully wipes his cock, changes his bedclothes, splashes his face (cares for Madeleine when he is quiescent).Have Valjean and Madeleine ever been as fused as their bodies?
Monsieur Madeleine sighs, and says a prayer for deliverance.