Title: Turnabout
Work ID: 41284440
Author: Kaleran
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Dubious Consent Due To Identity Issues, for once I get Madeleine's characterization right, Hatesex, Revenge Sex, Boot Worship, Rimming, Anal Sex, rest in pieces Madeleine's desk, document name: i lik the boot, oh yeah, Blow Jobs, Javert's mind is a filthy place once he gets going
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

The mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer is hiding something.

Javert introduces himself, perhaps flaunting his new promoted title a little, and the mayor can barely lift his eyes away from his desk. It irritates him, and then the seed of curiosity is planted. There is something about the lowered eyes and the bent head that reminds Javert of convicts of Toulon, but Toulon had been years ago. He dutifully pretends to not notice anything amiss, openly admitting information that has the man stiffening in his seat and acting as if he knows none of this. It is an act; the two of them are simply actors on a stage and Javert will have the whole of Montreuil-sur-Mer as their audience if only to see this mayor’s secret come to light. Javert, certainly, has nothing to hide.

“Good day, Monsieur le Maire,” Javert says as he leaves, perhaps stressing the title more than he should. He cannot suppress his smirk of vicious joy that he has already found a cause worth pursuing.

The mayor does not precisely avoid him, but he never looks Javert directly in the eye. There is something skittish in his actions, even as he never attempts to run from Javert’s scrutiny. He speaks softly, sometimes in a voice that is no louder than a murmur. Javert has never seen him smile for longer than a moment, save for when he is speaking to children. Irritatingly, he seems to be a philanthropist for no other reason than because he has the means to. He is distant, with no friends or companions to speak of, but friendly and willing to assist anyone in need. He does not even seem to have a lover, which Javert finds strange because he is a handsome man and many of the women would very much like to marry into money; money Madeleine has in great quantities.

Javert takes to watching the mayor. Madeleine clearly notices, but never approaches him. Strange for a mayor to be so obviously wary of his own police, but no citizen seems to notice anything out of the ordinary. In fact, Madeleine never seems to approach anyone, instead only responding when spoken to. He is often known to take long walks, and it is during one of these walks that Javert decides to ambush him.

“Monsieur Madeleine,” Javert says, quickly falling in step with him.

Madeleine startles, nearly jumping away like a skittish cat. “I-Inspector,” he stutters.

Javert suppresses a satisfied smile. “You have been avoiding me.”

Madeleine does not look at him, his eyes determinedly staring at the road in front of him.

“Perhaps it is time for us to have a little chat,” Javert continues. “Somewhere private, of course. I cannot guess what sort of... information may come to light.”

“Ah,” Madeleine says. His face has drained of color.

“For the benefit of the town,” Javert adds casually. “It would be best if we were to work in common cause, would it not?”

“Of course, Inspector,” Madeleine answers. His voice shakes. “Would my office do?”

Javert considers it. “Tonight, with the curtains drawn. I would think you would want such a conversation to remain... confidential.”

“As you say, Inspector,” Madeleine agrees quietly.

“I will see you this evening,” Javert says. “Good day, Monsieur le Maire.”

He takes his leave, leaving Madeleine pale-faced and shaken. Javert smiles.

He arrives at Madeleine’s office that evening to find the curtains already drawn. There is a faint light inside, hardly enough to make out the mayor’s shadow through the window. Javert’s suspicions grow. If Madeleine were on honest man, such procedures would be questioned. Here he is darkening the room they will meet so their conversation will not be noticed by people passing by.

“Inspector,” Madeleine greets him softly. Again, Madeleine does not meet his eyes.

Javert hands his coat and hat to him, watching with satisfaction as Madeleine plays servant without a second thought and hangs them neatly on the rack. The mayor’s hands are trembling and again Javert allows his thin lips to curl in a predatory smile.

“You are keeping secrets,” Javert states. “You will reveal them to me.”

Madeleine looks up at him in shock for a beat, then once again averts his eyes. “I-I am what you see, Inspector. There is nothing more—"

“You are lying!” Javert snarls. Madeleine flinches and Javert takes satisfaction from that too. “You are very clever, but you are no mayor. What are you hiding? A scandalous affair? A sordid past? What of your money that you heedlessly throw to beggars and—"

“My business is legitimate,” Madeleine argues. “Check my records if you must! What price must I pay for privacy?”

Javert laughs terribly. “Privacy? You misunderstand. This is for the good of the town to remove you from your station! You are no mayor! You are hardly fit to black my boots!”

Madeleine flinches away once more and Javert thinks back on his words. To have Madeleine, this ‘mayor’, on his knees before him; to watch him clean Javert’s fine boots with a rag- no, his tongue... Yes. That would be a suitable punishment. Madeleine deserves such punishment, for Madeleine certainly fears him or fears arrest.

“You want your privacy?” Javert asks in a low voice.

Madeleine nods. His eyes are turned away as usual and he is fidgeting with the hem of his coat.

“On your knees,” Javert orders.

“Pardon?” Madeline asks in a high, nervous voice.

“I will not repeat myself!” Javert snarls.

Slowly, hesitantly, Madeleine obeys. The sharp satisfaction of justice turns Javert’s mouth into a cruel smile. This dishonest man will bend to Javert’s will, or Javert will break him. He is well educated in how to send a man to his knees, order or not.

“Reveal your secrets,” Javert demands once more. “I will not tolerate another one of your lies.”

Almost imperceptibly, Madeleine shakes his head negatively.

Javert bares his teeth in a snarl. “You say you will not? If you are the mayor you claim to be, then you need not fear me. I will give you one more chance to reveal yourself honestly.”

Again, Madeleine shakes his head without a word. He has not since looked up at Javert. Impudent.

“Very well,” Javert says. He straightens himself, asserting his authority over this deceitful mayor. “Black my boots like the scum you are.”

Madeleine visibly swallows, the asks in a quiet voice, “With what, Inspector?”

“Surely you can think of something,” Javert tells him dryly. “That wagging tongue of yours could be put to a better use, for instance.”

Again, Madeleine swallows. It is a pity that the folds of his cravat hide his throat from view.

“Well?” Javert demands, impatient now. “Shall I announce that you are a murderer, a thief? A dishonest man with a soiled past?”

Madeleine closes his eyes and bows his head. It is unclear if it is an act of shame or if he is seriously considering what Javert is asking of him.

“Why so silent now, Monsieur le Maire?” Javert taunts. “Has your tongue all but disappeared from your mouth?”

Madeleine looks up at him without fear for the first time, his light eyes both determined and shamed. He is quite handsome, Javert thinks. It would be a shame to see that handsome face pressed into the dusty floor of the mayor’s office.

Then Madeleine does bend, never once looking away. His hands touch the floor, his legs folding under him neatly like a coiled tiger. It is not entirely submissive and Javert nearly snarls at him once more.

Then Madeleine lowers his head level with Javert’s boot.

Javert did not expect Madeleine to kneel before him and submit himself. It was a threat, simply a way to get Madeleine to tell Javert what he is. He had not prepared himself for the sight of what was once his authority on the floor before him, so close that his breath fogs the fine leather of his boot. His boots are hardly considered dirty; Javert had cleaned them himself not this morning to perfection with a rag and polish.

Then Madeleine licks the toe of Javert’s boot. It is obscene.

“Is that it?” Javert demands when Madeleine does not move further. His saliva glistens on the leather. “Must you be forced?”

Madeleine hesitates. Javert, inpatient, fueled by fascination, lifts his other foot and plants it firmly on Madeleine’s neck. Madeline makes a sound of surprise as he is forced down to the floor, his arms giving out. Yet he does not resist. He does not protest. It takes effort for him to press his face to Javert’s boot, yet he does so and another pass of his tongue leaves a trail in what little dust exists on Javert’s boot. Clean.

Javert’s grin is terrible. His foot presses further against Madeleine’s neck.

Without prompting, Madeleine continues hesitantly. He is nothing if not thorough. Never once does he make a sound of protest, even when Javert presses hard on his neck once more to force his face to the floorboards for his own amusement. He is the perfect servant. He is no mayor.

Javert regretfully removes his foot from the back of Madeleine’s neck when Madeleine has finished with what he could reach. It leaves behind a dusty print on his coat. A physical mark of Madeleine’s punishment. Madeleine, surprisingly obedient, only pauses for a moment before continuing as before. He reaches the ankle of Javert’s boot without protest, then hesitates.

“Do you think you are finished?” Javert asks him.

Madeleine shakes his head minutely. Clever that he has learned to be silent so quick. Javert expected him to fight.

“Continue,” Javert orders. He leans back against the mayor’s desk, his eyes never leaving the gleaming leather of his boot or the pink tongue that darts from between Madeleine’s lips.

Madeleine hesitates, but only for a moment. Javert’s boots extend nearly all the way up his calf. He starts at the bottom, licking a long stripe all the way up to the top. A second time. A third. On the fourth, Madeleine meets his eyes. There is no fear, no submission. There is only determination and hatred. Javert’s breath catches in his throat before he forces his face into a snarl once more.

“Look down,” he commands. His voice wavers.

Madeleine notices, lingering near the top of Javert’s boot like he knows Javert’s palms are sweating in his gloves, like he knows there is something sinful about his thoughts—

No! It is not him. It cannot be him! It must be Madeleine who is infecting him. Lying, sinful, tempting Madeleine! Javert would put a stop to this now. He should put a stop to this now, but that would ruin the point. Madeleine is only half done. There is still the other boot.

“Look down!” Javert repeats, snarling. This time his voice does not waver.

Madeleine keeps eye contact for one more defiant moment, then continues.

“The other,” Javert commands.

“I am not finished yet, Inspector,” Madeleine says in his soft voice. It is deceptively submissive, not when Madeleine holds his eyes like that, so easily returns to put his wet tongue on Javert’s boot.

Javert bites his own tongue to demand him to leave it unfinished. That would be admitting Madeleine is affecting him. He can hold out. He is Javert. He is still Just.

It feels like Madeleine is working slower just to spite him now, his tongue licking the dust away with agonizing slowness. The job is neat, perfect even, if something such as this could have a state that would be considered perfect. It cannot. It is obscene.

Madeleine finishes the first boot, pausing to swallow and wet his lips. His work is good, Javert’s shoe perfect and shining. The other looks a mess in comparison.

“The other,” Javert growls.

Madeleine obediently bows his head, that pink tongue taunting him as it makes the first swipe across the toe of his boot. Javert does not force his head down this time, too focused on keeping his breath steady and not let a shred of lust show. The work is slow, careful, Madeleine making sure to press his tongue into every crease in the leather. It shines just like the other now and Javert is gripping the desk behind him so hard he can no longer feel his fingers. He keeps his breaths deep, keeps his rapid heartbeat hidden, but he cannot fight this terrible lust inside him with Madeleine’s tongue shining his boots to perfection, with their eyes occasionally meeting and Javert feels himself weakening with every lick.

Madeleine spends extra time at the back of his calf, the press of his tongue against his leg doing unreasonable things to his control. When he looks up, his eyes are knowing.

“Look down,” Javert tries to say. It comes out in a voice so harsh and low it hardly sounds human. “You are no mayor when you do such a fine job on my boots. What would your precious people think? You should be on your knees every day doing this—"

Madeleine’s head is just in front of his groin. He remains on his knees. No matter how much Javert fights it, not even he can deny how obviously hard he is in his trousers, erection straining painfully against the fabric.

Yes. On his knees. Madeleine’s mouth is very suited to tasks other than lying. His tongue is clever. This is exactly what Madeleine deserves!

“You should be on your knees,” Javert continues, voice rough. “On your knees with your mouth open. Your place is to serve, and serve you shall until you are filthy and used.”

“By whom?” Madeleine asks quietly, calmly, the steel in his voice no less present. “By you, Inspector?”

“By me and whoever else finds you convenient!” Javert snarls. “You will look down, never once complain! It is your place! There is no Mayor Madeleine; there is only a liar and a degenerate and a—!”

Madeleine leans forward, dangerously close to his clothed cock. Javert’s voice leaves him suddenly, heart pounding at the possibility of Madeleine touching him there, taking him in his mouth like Javert is suggesting—

“And who here,” Madeleine says, lips moving lightly against the cloth of his trousers, “is the degenerate?”

Javert sneers, his teeth clenched tight, fighting the sounds that want to escape his throat.

“Who was it who suggested this? Who,” Madeleine presses his tongue against the rough fabric, the pressure deliciously torturous, “is the one who begs me to take him in his mouth?”

“I do not beg!” Javert snarls. “I am only telling you what you deserve, what your place truly is!”

“Are you?” Madeleine asks, just as quiet, just as steady. “You will beg, Inspector. You want this.”

Javert cannot deny him.

Madeleine noses at his balls, then upwards along where his cock remains trapped. His pink tongue licks at him, his spit wetting his trousers. Javert can’t stop the soft sound that escapes his throat.

“Perhaps it is you that is hiding something,” Madeleine says in his quiet voice, never ceasing his attentions. “Perhaps this is what you are hiding. Your weakness. Your shame.” Another lick, another soft pressure on his cock. “It could ruin you.”

Javert stills. Madeleine is right. This has gone terribly, horribly wrong. It was he that was supposed to gain the upper hand. He! Javert! Not Madeleine and his clever tongue, his soft words of iron, his damned touch. It is Madeleine who has damned him. It is not him. It cannot be him!

“This is your fault,” Javert growls. “This is your doing! Your treachery!”

“Is it?” Madeleine asks conversationally. “It was not me who volunteered to lick your boots. It was not me who could not control myself. It was not me who suggested I should take your cock in my mouth until your release leaks from my lips.”

Javert’s breath quickens at the image against his will. Yes. He would look good then. The mayor’s handsome face ruined by Javert’s spend.

Madeleine smiles, a cold certainty in his eyes. “It is not me who will beg, Inspector.”

And then he puts his mouth on Javert’s clothed cock and sucks in earnest.

Javert has never felt anything so good in his life. He swears, hands clutching the edge of the desk to keep himself upright. Madeleine meets his eyes and licks, knowing just where Javert is leaking and teasing him there with his sinful tongue. A tortured groan escapes Javert and he throws his head back, the shame of it flooding his cheeks with heat.

He will not beg, Javert reminds himself. He will not give in.

“I could suck you,” Madeleine says, as quiet as always. His words hold promise. “Take you in my mouth. Is that what you desire, Inspector? Would that alone be enough?”

He will not beg.

Madeleine mouths at him, the scrape of teeth making Javert whimper and the constant teasing a blissful torture.

He will not beg. He will not beg. He will not—

Madeleine ducks his head, his tongue probing further between Javert’s legs than it had before.

“Oh, God!” Javert hears himself swear in a loud moan, legs spreading involuntarily.

“Oh,” Madeleine says, quiet and pleased. “Is that what you like, Inspector? Do you want my mouth there? Is that why you spread your legs so wide for me? Do you want me to lick you there, press my tongue inside you before I take you?”

Javert’s legs shake and he groans. He should not want this. This is Madeleine’s doing. Madeleine’s damned pink tongue, Madeleine’s sinful words, the hot touch of his hands on Javert’s thighs—

A touch between his cheeks, this time a finger. It presses against his trousers, rubbing at that spot that Javert dares not imagine being touched. It is filthy to imagine Madeleine’s tongue there. Obscene. He would be good at it, Javert thinks, his pink tongue clever and wet and Madeleine’s hot hands on his cheeks, spreading him—

“You want this,” Madeleine says confidently.

“No,” Javert denies. His voice is wrecked, shaking.

Another knowing smile. “You will beg for me to touch you there. Beg for my tongue, my cock. Won’t you, Inspector? You have never disappointed me yet. Will you fail me now?”

Javert closes his eyes, back arching to lay on the mayor’s desk and his hand reaching behind his head. Helpless. His legs are spread, Madeleine’s hands hot like brands on his skin, his damnable mouth on his cock and his finger rubbing circles against his ass. He wants this. Good God, he wants this.

Madeleine unfastens his trousers slowly, the pressure on his cock releasing. Javert all but sobs when it springs free, the cold air of the office hitting his heated skin.

“You want this,” Madeleine says, then his lips engulf him.

Javert moans loudly, his hips bucking into Madeleine’s mouth. It only takes one of Madeleine’s powerful hands to hold him down. Madeleine does not suck, but simply holds him there in the wet heat of his mouth. It is torture. It is bliss.

“Please,” Javert begs.

Madeleine’s mouth pops off him with an obscene noise. “Please what, Inspector?”

Javert tenses, clenching his jaw, holding himself back. He should not want this, does not want this! His body does not rule his mind like some lust-driven, weak man! He is a man of the law, of justice! He is not this.

Then Madeline pulls his trousers down around his ankles and presses his bare finger against Javert’s asshole.

“Please!” Javert sobs. The pressure is too good, the idea of Madeleine’s tongue there in him, his cock stretching him open—

“Very good, Inspector,” Madeleine praises him. “I knew you would not disappoint me.”

He stands, drawing away. Javert whimpers, needing that touch back. That damned finger, that damned tongue! Anything to end this torture.

“On your stomach,” Madeleine mutters in his ear. “Bend over my desk.”

Javert finds his legs and obeys, chest against the hard wood and hands spread on either side of him.

“Always so obedient,” Madeleine says. His voice is nearly fond, taunting him. It startles Javert out of his lust-addled state and he growls at him. Madeleine’s strong hand on the small of his back has him trapped, unable to move or even turn his head enough to glare at him.

“Stay still,” Madeleine says.

The hand disappears, only to reappear with the other on each of his cheeks, spreading them wide. Then something warm and wet licks him from balls to ass.

“Fuck,” Javert swears, clutching the desk. “Oh God.”

He feels Madeleine chuckle against him, then his tongue returns. It licks and licks, insistent, tasting him.

“Filthy,” Javert tells him in a growl. “You are nothing but—"

A particularly forceful thrust of his tongue has Javert swearing again, shutting his eyes. His head falls to the hard wood of the desk painfully, but pain is a distant thing compared to the pleasure Madeleine is forcing upon him.

“You would— You would lick my hole all day if you could, wouldn’t you?” Javert says with an effort. “On your knees, just like this—"

“I would have you over my desk,” Madeleine interrupts. A wet finger replaces his tongue. “Just like this. Helpless, begging for me. The windows open for everyone to see how much of a degenerate you are.”

Javert whines, hips bucking towards Madeleine. He shouldn’t want this. If he had never known of Madeleine’s pink tongue, of the filthy things it would do to him—

Madeleine’s tongue presses past the right ring of his entrance. It writhes inside him, working him open while Javert moans helplessly. It should not feel so good. It should be wrong, unthinkable, but Madeleine’s tongue spears him again and again. Each time, Javert moans. It is so good.

“You’re no mayor,” Javert manages to say with the appropriate amount of hatred. “You have done this before. Your tongue would not be so clever. You would not be so eager to taste me like this.”

Madeleine says nothing, continuing to lick him open. His beard rasps on the sensitive skin of Javert’s ass, a strange but pleasurable contrast to the wet pleasure of his tongue.

“You are obscene,” Javert snarls, even as he presses back against Madeleine’s face. “I have never known anyone filthier than you! You disgrace—"

Madeleine’s strong hands squeeze him and spread his cheeks further and Javert grunts in pain. It feels like he is being torn apart, the only solace being Madeleine’s tongue in his ass.

“You talk too much,” Madeleine tells him, mouth still pressed against his skin.

He presses a finger into him, slick with saliva, and Javert groans against the desk. Good God. Javert’s cock is hard and needy, leaking obscenely over Madeline’s desk he’s sure. Good. Let there be a mark of Javert’s on Madeleine’s false station!

Madeleine’s tongue joins his finger, still as eager as before. It never seems to tire, constantly licking and teasing at his rim, plunging into him without any kind of rhythm at all and taking Javert by surprise every time. A second finger enters and Javert cants his hips upward, needing that fullness, needing him deeper.

“Beg,” Madeleine says. His voice is still soft and quiet, the voice of the man Javert thought he had pinned down. How is it that the same man with the tentative, quiet voice is the same man who forces him over the mayor’s desk and gives him— no— introduces him to this sinful lust?

“No,” Javert growls. He still has some shreds of dignity. His chest is flat against the mayor’s desk, ass pushing at Madeleine’s fingers, but he will not be reduced to begging again.

Madeleine hums, doubtful. A third finger. Javert grits his teeth against the burning stretch, the feeling of being filled making his cock twitch.

“Fuck,” Javert swears when Madeleine starts to move his fingers again. “You love this. Seeing me stretched open. You should be down at the docks, earning your living down there with the rest of the whores and the—"

The fingers are yanked out and the tongue returns. Javert’s hole is too stretched to close tight around him now. God, he is so open. Madeleine’s tongue shoves deep inside him, only serving to prove how loose he is now. How easy it is to press into him.

“Oh God,” Javert moans. “Fuck.”

“Beg for me,” Madeleine says, his voice as heavy as Javert’s now. “You want to.”

“Never,” Javert snarls. “You want to fuck me. You want to take me over your desk. That’s why you opened me up, licking my hole like an animal—"

Madeline sinks his teeth into the flesh of Javert’s ass and Javert cries out. It should not feel so good.

“Get your dick in me,” Javert orders him. It is not begging if he demands it. “You want it. You want to feel me.”

Madeleine growls. His hands leave Javert’s skin and Javert hears the sound of trousers being unfastened, then Madeleine spits into his hand.

“I bet you would keep your mouth on yourself if you could,” Javert says. “Suck yourself like the degenerate you are.”

Madeleine says nothing but puts his hand on Javert’s back so he is trapped once more. The breath whooshes out of him when Madeleine adds more of his weight.

“You are so desperate,” Javert continues. “Sticking your cock in someone at the first opportunity. Do the docks not cater to your preferences? Do they—"

Madeleine slides all the way in on the first thrust. He is larger than his fingers and tongue, Javert hissing with the burn of it. Good God! He never imagined this would feel so good. Madeleine gives him no time to adjust, pausing only a moment before pulling out and slamming into him again. Javert swears, clawing at the desk. He is so hard. Madeleine’s cock feels enormous in him, striking him deep inside with every powerful thrust.

“You even fuck like an animal,” Javert says through gritted teeth. “Like a mindless beast.”

“You like this,” Madeleine replies, his voice a growl now too. “You cannot stop moaning, pressing back against me like you could never get enough of me. Do you want someone to hear you? To try to look inside to see me pinning you down and taking you?”

He punctuates his point with a particularly powerful thrust, slamming Javert’s hips into the desk.

“I bet you want that,” Javert snaps back. “You would like to show your true nature at last. You’re a beast. Nothing but a filthy animal—"

Madeleine growls, picking up the pace. Javert is caught in pleasure, Madeleine’s cock in him filling him to the brim. Madeleine spits on his hand again, the slide becoming easier and the burn of friction lessening.

He should not want this. He should not enjoy this. He should not already be craving the next time he can have Madeleine’s tongue and fingers and cock in his him like this.

“Come on,” Javert growls. “Take me! You want to!”

The hands at his hips clench tight, the cock in his ass slamming into him harder. He is going to ache for days after this, the burn of it a constant reminder of his failings. Javert collapses onto the desk, boneless with how good it feels with only Madeleine’s hands holding him up.

“Take it,” Madeleine says roughly. “You are going to remember this. I own you now. You gave yourself to me, proved how much of a pervert you really are.”

“I hate you,” Javert snarls. “You seduced me, led me into this sin!”

Madeleine growls, his thrusts becoming erratic.

“Are you going to finish in me?” Javert asks, both aroused and disgusted at once.

“Yes,” Madeleine responds with just as much hate in his voice.

“You beast!”

Madeleine says nothing but reaches down to fist Javert’s cock, his hand damp with sweat and the fluids dripping from the head of Javert’s cock but not much else. His grip is too tight, the slide too dry.

“Fuck,” Javert moans, letting Madeleine use him. God, it should not feel so good. “Damn you—"

Madeleine finishes with a groan, continuing to press into him with slow, deep thrusts as his hips shake with the force of it. It only takes a few more strokes of Madeleine’s hand before Javert shoots his spend all over the front of Madeleine’s desk. Even Madeleine’s cock just resting in him feels good. Madeleine squeezes and strokes him through his orgasm, milking every last drop from him until Javert snarls for him to let go of him. He hates that he doesn’t want Madeleine to pull out of him. By God, he should not want this!

“Get off me,” Javert growls at last, elbowing Madeleine’s hand off his back.

“You took me so well,” Madeleine says, slipping out of him and stepping away. “You were meant for this.” Moments later, Javert feels a thin trail of warmth slowly slide out of him and down the inside of his thigh. Disgusting, Javert thinks. Madeleine should clean him up, using that filthy mouth of his to suck his own spend out of Javert’s body—

He should not be thinking about that.

“I hate you,” Javert says with feeling, pulling his trousers up and fastening them quickly. His legs are shaking, but he stands with an effort. He will not show Madeleine how weak he is.

“You liked it,” Madeleine comments in his soft, infuriating voice, mirroring Javert’s actions.

“So did you,” Javert replies, narrowing his eyes. “You started this!”

“I object. It was clearly you.”

“I was not the one to suggest taking things so far!” Javert snarls. “It was you; you and your filthy tongue!”

“You liked it when I licked your boots.”

“You could have ignored it. You could have left.”

“You would have only tried again some other time.”

“Yes,” Javert says. “I will still try again! You are hiding something further than even your depravity and I will find out what it is!”

Madeleine’s eyes meet his. Those damned hazel eyes are full of hate and just enough defiance to have Javert furious all over again in moments.

“I think we both know what would happen if you try again, Inspector.”

Javert glares at him with the same amount of hatred, baring his teeth and curling his lips, but he knows Madeleine is correct. Madeleine should not be correct. Javert should hate this, object, fight him off with disgust.

“Next time will be different,” Javert growls. “I will not be so unprepared.”

Madeleine does not look away, a challenge in his eyes. “We will see about that, Inspector.”

Javert leaves with a growl, leaving the office with long, quick strides.