Title: Two Words on a Page
Work ID: 2529653
Author: forever_doodling_tardises
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: ghost character, Ghost Javert, Character Death, Crossed Timelines, Time Travel, ish, Alternate Universe - High School, HELP I DON'T LIVE IN FRANCE I'M SORRY IF I MESS UP, should i just give up and set this in america, Suicide, Implied/Referenced Suicide
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?


When Jean Valjean received his textbooks, he would always flip straight to the front to see who had owned them before him. This year, all had fairly unremarkable monikers save one. The last, in near-pristine condition, had had only one previous user. There was no first name, only, in neat letters, Insp. Javert. This anomaly, which most would have deemed unworthy of attention, inspired curiosity in Valjean, as well as the feeling that the name was familiar. 


"Maître Bienvenue?"

"Yes?"

"Who's this?" Jean pointed out the name to his teacher, but Fantine, one of his classmates, answered the question before Bienvenue could. "Javert. I thought everybody knew about him."

"I transferred a week ago," Valjean reminded her. 

"Right. Well," Fantine started as they walked out of class, Valjean waving hastily at Maître Bienvenue. Fantine continued: "There was this boy, Javert - I don't even know his first name, he called himself 'Inspector'. He committed suicide halfway through second term - I don't think anybody knew why. He only got here at the beginning of last year, and then just like that - gone. He jumped into the Seine. They say he was holding a rosary - the one he always had with him - when he jumped. You know what else they say?"

Valjean shook his head, and that seemed encouragement enough for Fantine. "They say that the book's haunted. 'Course," she amended, "it's not true. But that's what they say."

Valjean frowned. It all seemed so very familiar...

---

That night, Valjean dreamed. He dreamed about another life. A rosary. A revolution. A somber-faced man who chased him across France. 

He woke up and saw something in the corner of his vision flicker. He blinked twice and a figure, standing by his desk, came into better focus. "Wha?" Still half-asleep, words escaped him. A moment later, though, whatever half-formed thought of a phrase might have been in his mind disappeared. The figure turned around. A boy, about Valjean's age, with posture that seemed almost too good for one of his age group. Broad-shouldered and wearing the school uniform that nobody wore. A ghost of a beard creeping down his cheeks. Dark, straight hair pulled back in a low ponytail. And he was clutching a rosary. His eyes, empty and bluish-green, fell on Valjean and widened. "You're him," he whispered. "I didn't want to believe it..." Then he shut his eyes very tightly. "Bye," he murmured, flickering out of existence. Something fell from where he had been standing - the rosary. He'd dropped it. Valjean frowned, picking it up. All this carried the disquieting sense of definitely having taken place before. Valjean placed the rosary in his night table, resolving to solve this mystery in the morning. 

 