Title: What Sort of Devil
Work ID: 47389492
Author: M_Moonshade
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Valjean is a Vampire, Brick/Musical fusion, Paris Era, Slow Burn, Jean Valjean Has Anxiety, Javert has a gold medal in mental gymnastics, They take turns taking care of each other, honeypot Javert, enemies to honeypot/fake dating to lovers?
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 17/17


Valjean’s thoughts move like sludge in his head. It is impossible to think. Impossible to plan. Impossible to move, except when a rough hand grabs him by the jaw and forces his head to turn. His stare is dragged toward a man’s face. Bony, unshaven, sneering. He snarls curses that Valjean cannot comprehend, though he recognizes something in that voice. That face. The smell– mixed as it is with the other men who crowd the room, overlaid with the cloying scent of roses.



Roses. Freshly picked, they must be, because their canes are flexible and green as they wind around him. Their thorns tear into his clothes, carve through his skin. They hold him in place, more securely than any ropes– than the ropes– are there ropes?



Chains, certainly– heavy iron shackles, like he wore in Toulon. Thin lines of fine silver– and some base metal plated in silver, worn off in places– likely stolen, wrapped tightly at his ankles and wrists. Rosaries– so many rosaries– some of them made with his own jet, scorching him through the layers of fabric.



The man is talking still. Angry. Loud. Spittle flies from his lips with every few words. He yanks at his own collar, shoves his shoulder at Valjean’s face like he means to strike him with it, like he means to offer it up, like he means–



Like he means to show off a scar. Two jagged crescents where stringy muscle wraps around a thin neck. The marks are violent. Too deep, too wide, but clean, without the jagged pits where meat might have been torn from yielding flesh. Not frenzied rage, then, but righteous fury.



Valjean’s eyes drift back to the man’s face.



Thénardier’s lips stretch wide in a grin. They form words, and after a moment Valjean can piece them together into something like, "so you 

do

 remember me, 

monsieur

." 



He says more, but Valjean cannot follow the words. His awareness shifts only when rough hands peel rose canes and rosaries from his right arm, starting at the wrist and moving to the shoulder. The thorns leave deep gouges as they are displaced. The chains, iron and silver alike, remain twisted around him.



The relief is intense– a boulder lifted from his shoulders– but he is still buried beneath an avalanche.



"Well?" Thénardier snaps. "Write it!"



This time the sounds take only a moment to resolve into words.



"What?" His own words are barely slurred. "I don't…"



"I said 

write

, you stupid beast!" His free hand is yanked to lay over a writing desk. A pen is forced against his palm. ''Send for the Lark. The girl. Colette.”



“Cosette,” he corrects without thinking. Her name lights something up inside him, a distant beacon in the heavy fog.



She didn't come with him. He had invited her, but she remembered too much of the tenement where they once lived. Only fragmented memories, but enough that she asked to stay behind.



Clever, sweet Cosette, already wiser than her years.



"Yes, Cosette. Write that down. Yes. Now say something's happened– something private, that's right, you can't say in the letter– but she must come immediately. Alone. Sign it now!" The pen scrapes a long trail of ink over the paper as Thénardier grabs it away and folds it. "Now the address. Write your address here, now!" He stabs at the paper with his finger until Valjean sets street numbers in ink.



An instant later pen and paper are both snatched away. Rose canes and rosaries are replaced around his arms, and he is crushed again under the renewed force of them. There is no power left in him to make sense of his senses. Only one thought remains, cradled in his mind as he once cradled her in his arms.



Fresh agony forces him from his stupor. A crucifix is shoved against his cheek, sharp metal and jagged wood breaking skin as it burns his flesh.



Thénardier pulls it away and strikes him with a bare hand, snarling and spitting words that Valjean can only barely discern.




Empty

, he says. The house was empty. The address was false.



Cosette wasn’t there. She isn’t coming. She is safe.



Valjean smiles. Even when he is struck again by the blistering cross, he still smiles. 



Other words filter through his awareness.




We’ve been here too long–





Shut up his screaming–





The police–





My revenge–




His eyes drift to a crack on the opposite wall. Movement: something sliding through, unnoticed behind the turned backs of his bickering captors. Paper. It clears the wall, flutters, falls. And then, it catches under a pacing boot.




Shit–





The police!





How long was that there? How close–





–have to leave–





–make for the sewers–





–leave him, damn you, we don’t have time–




“No.” Thénardier is close again, filling the whole of Valjean’s vision. “I’m not finished here.”



There is a knife in his hand, notched and recently sharpened into something jagged and deadly. It slides to rest under Valjean’s jaw.



Valjean meets his frenzied stare. 



“That’s right,” Thénardier spits. “It’ll do for kings and traitors and thieves, and it’ll do just as well for the likes of you. Not even a monster can live with no head.” 



There’s shouting now. A crash. A gunshot. Valjean’s eyes fall from Thénardier’s face to the door behind him as it bursts open in a shower of splintered wood. The knife draws back, readies to swing– and then it goes flying as an enormous beast pounces onto Thénardier and drives him to the floor, pinning him beneath its bulk. 



Not a beast, no– not furred but whiskered– those aren’t fangs and claws but the glinting head of a cane– but his lips are pulled back in an animal snarl–



Other men are pouring inside now, all dressed alike, wrapped in the same heavy great coats. They must be close, but Valjean can’t drag his gaze from the figure on top of Thénardier. 




Jesus Christ–





–Is he alive? Monsieur, can you–





Mother of God– 





–Torturing him–





–Can barely feel his pulse–




The nearest officer struggles with the chains, cutting through the rose canes without thinking and casting them aside. Beads scatter across the floor with a sound like hail on window panes. 



“Watch yourself!” snarls the man fixing shackles across Thénardier’s wrists. “That’s evidence you’re casting aside.”



“With all due respect, Inspector– 

shit!

–” The officer at Valjean’s side pulls back his hand and sticks one finger in his mouth. “We barely interrupted a murder. I don’t think some broken– what the hell are these, rosaries?– are going to make much difference in the sentencing.”



He withdraws his finger from his mouth and returns again to the work of untying Valjean, more careful of the thorns but not of his injured hand.



Already blood is welling to the surface, hot and fresh and iron-sweet. More of it from the other men, the products of split lips and scraped knuckles and misplaced splinters. Valjean can smell it, even over the cloying perfume of roses. 



He does not know how long it’s been since he’s fed. He suspects it might not matter– not when he is so grievously injured. Every drop in his reserves has been spent in keeping him alive, and now– and now fresh blood is close, and he is so very thirsty–



On the floor, Thénardier is laughing. 



“By all means, untie that creature! Set him loose! Oh, he’ll take a bite of you yet. What do you say, Claquesous– how many of these bastards will he rip to pieces before they fill him up with lead? Lord knows I could do with a few less bobbies on the streets!”



“Enough of you!” snaps the nearest officer, before he turns his attention back to Valjean. “You’re going to be alright.” Valjean forces himself to focus on the man’s eyes– reminds himself that this is a man, not a meal. "Just a few more minutes to get you loose, and then you'll be on your way to a hospital."



"No!" he says too quickly, and he can only hope the roughness of his voice disguises his alarm. His mind swims with visions of crucifixes and garlic poultices and nuns clutching rosaries as they tend to countless bleeding bodies. "After everything that's happened, I want nothing more than to go home. I can send for a doctor to see me there."



"But monsieur– your injuries! I cannot in good conscience send you out into the night in your condition."



"Particularly because you have other duties to see to," says the man who has finished restraining Thénardier. "Send for a fiacre and then see to these criminals. I will escort this 

gentleman 

to his home."



If Valjean had blood in his veins, he would go pale. He knows that man– the one who guarded his chain at the bagne. The one who denounced Valjean as a criminal in Montreuil. The one who chased him from this very house years ago, with a pack of officers at his heels like baying hounds. Now he watches his prey with the intensity of a hunter on the scent.



"That isn't necessary," Valjean rasps. "I do not wish to pull you away from your duty here."



"Our duty is to the good people of this city," the other officer assures him.



Javert's lip curls into something closer to a snarl than a smile. "These criminals are insidious, monsieur. They may even now be in your home, lying in wait for your return. I must insist on inspecting the premises– we may yet capture more criminals tonight."



Valjean would protest, but even with the bindings torn from his limbs, his mind is only barely able to keep up with the words spoken. He can only acquiesce helplessly as he is marched into a fiacre. A moment later Javert fills the door of the carriage, lips peeled back from his teeth like a guard dog. 



"Your address, monsieur." He says it like a threat.



This, at least, his sluggish thoughts have managed to put into order. 



Valjean meets his eyes, unflinching. "Number 7 Rue de l'Homme Arme." 



The key to his home is on the ring his captors took from him, now in Javert’s hand– for safe keeping, or for evidence, he isn’t sure– but that will confirm it as his property. Meanwhile, Cosette is still safe at the Rue Plumet address. He will not lead danger to her.



Javert squeezes into the carriage and glowers at him from across the small space, looking too much like a specter of Valjean’s last arrest. It is too much the same: that gloating snarl, the weakness of too much time surrounded by the hospital’s hierograms, the jostle of the carriage as it crosses over every stone. 



But in Montreuil, there hadn’t been blood.



He can smell it the moment Javert climbs into the carriage, brought in on his hands. His gloves must have torn sometime during the struggle, and beneath the broken fabric are bloodied knuckles, gouged perhaps by splintered wood or Thénardier’s grinning teeth. They bleed sluggishly, so thick in the enclosed space that Valjean can nearly taste it on the air. 



He’s right there– all he need do is reach out his arm and pull Javert closer. In such close quarters, Javert’s long limbs would hinder more than serve him. There would be no space to properly swing that leaden cane, no time to aim a bullet, not before Valjean had him pinned beneath him. One bite, that’s all it would take, and then: a feast. Javert’s blood would flow like wine, and Valjean would drink his fill, and in a matter of minutes he would be restored and his old pursuer would be gone forever, and wouldn’t that be justice served at last?



His breath comes in grating rasps over a parched tongue. His fangs are sharp and ready.



No, he tells himself. No matter how quickly he made the kill, there would be sounds of a struggle. The coachman would surely hear, would raise an alarm. It isn’t yet so late that nobody would come to investigate. 



His eyes burn into Javert’s.



The fiacre slows to a halt and Javert pushes open the door.



“Monsieur,” he says, all but daring Valjean to try to flee. 



Just yet, the best he can manage is a stagger and a perfunctory “thank you, Inspector,” as he descends, and a moment later Javert is leading him to the door. The ring of confiscated keys clang as they are finally turned over to their owner.



If Javert comes inside, he’ll see the dust cloths covering the long-unused furniture. He’ll know this was at least a partial lie. 



It won’t matter, purrs the hunger. If anything, it will distract him for that single precious instant before fangs break skin.



The door unlocks. The door swings open, and Valjean takes a half step through– then turns, blocking the view of the inside with his bulk. 



Javert’s eyes narrow, then grow wider as Valjean takes his hand in his own.



"I commend you, Inspector, for your dedication to your duty. Paris sleeps easier in your protection, as do I." And he makes half a bow and brings that captured hand to his lips. Only a sip of blood remains on those torn knuckles, but Valjean laps it up with a subtle flick of his tongue. He lingers there, savoring the taste like a fine wine. By now Javert should have yanked his hand away, but the violent pull does not come. Instead Javert stands utterly still, not even breathing. He might have been a statue, if not for the pounding of his heart loud in Valjean’s ears. There is a scent, too, beneath the adrenaline of the fight. He knows that scent.



It would be so 

easy

.



"You would forgive me if I don't invite you inside," he says when he finally straightens and releases the captured hand. "I'm afraid I am in no condition to entertain you tonight." He allows half a breath for a response; when none comes, he shuts the door between them.



Javert is still standing on the front step.



Valjean sinks into the nearest chair, the white dust shroud gathering stains from his ruined clothes. That last effort of self-control took the last of his strength. He bows his head, murmurs a prayer, and allows himself to rest. 



Hours later, he drags his aching body through the motions of washing and dressing in respectable clothes, hoping to track down one of his usual contacts to sate his thirst before dawn. But when he glances at the window, he stops short with a strangled sound of despair.



On the street corner opposite Number 7, barely illuminated by the light of a streetlamp, stands Inspector Javert. 


Content warning for a racist comment regarding Javert's Romani ancestry from Thénardier.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


It is morning when Chabouillet steps out of his carriage onto the street corner occupied by Javert, followed in short order by four additional officers. If Javert had any say in the matter, that gamin he sent would have roused the secretary from his bed directly, but his patron has already warned him that he tends to be overeager when he’s on the scent, and he risks enough not waiting for a warrant. And so, a compromise: he has not taken his eyes off the quarry’s address since he arrived, except to circle the premises at irregular intervals for alternative routes of escape. There has already been one incautious move from the man, with that clumsy attempt at seduction. Artless, but not yet desperate. The intervening hours have done nothing but remind his prey how trapped he really is. With careful application of pressure, he will bolt– and then Javert will have him at last.

But there are still the final steps to this dance. He briefs his superior and distributes orders to the officers to wait at the exits, and then ascends to knock on the door of Number 7. The rap is surprisingly painless against his ragged knuckles– hours in the cold air must have done them good, because they are usually inflamed and raw after such a confrontation– and he is more than pleased with himself when the man claiming to be Ultime Fauchelevant opens the door. 

There are the unbearable formalities as Chabouillet introduces himself, as he presents the pretense for their arrival.

“We want to deepen our understanding of the nature of last night’s attack,” the secretary says. “The apprehended criminals are being predictably tight-lipped, of course, but we believe they might have said something in your presence that might constitute a lead.”

“You must forgive me, Monsieur le secretaire,” the convict says. “I’m afraid that I was not in any condition to listen to their conversation, nor to remember much at all.”

“Perhaps you can provide greater context, then.” Javert nearly jumps in with teeth bared. “You might have some suspicion as to why they targeted you in the first place.”

His prey, already gray-faced, goes even more ashen. “I make a habit of giving alms in that part of the city,” he says. “I had offered to pay the man’s rent– I can only assume that he guessed me a man of means, and meant to extort more money from me.”

“And that would be a reasonable guess, I am sure,” says Javert. “But the way you were treated suggests something far more personal. In fact, the leader of the operation seemed to know you quite well.”

There: the man retreats half a step, one heel dragging on the ground as if it’s weighted by a chain. Javert nearly smiles.

“In fact, he was quite vocal about the belief that you were a dangerous man yourself– a killer. It follows, then, that what he knew about your fortune was no guess, but intimate knowledge, brought on by a shared past. There is in fact one such criminal on the loose with the wealth and the abilities he suggested, and you are the very image of him: the fugitive Jean Valjean!”

Were nature more cooperative, that declaration might have been punctuated by a clap of thunder, but this morning the weather is resigned to nothing but snow. 

Valjean’s face is carefully blank. “That is quite an accusation, Inspector. And… an oddly specific one.”

“The man in question has an established history of disguising himself as a man of standing in order to escape suspicion,” Chabuillet says, carefully neutral. His stiff demeanor suggests exasperation, but he will forget his annoyance when they have Valjean back in chains. “When last apprehended, he had established himself as a business owner and mayor. Inspector Javert risked his career in identifying him.”

“And I was correct!”

Chabouillet gives him a sharp look, but says nothing.

“So of course you must take this very seriously,” Valjean says, far too reasonably for how tight the trap has closed around him. “I understand.” He looks from Chabouillet to Javert and back with measured slowness, but his hands give him away: he tugs at the cuffs of his shirt, the better to hide old manacle scars. “Of course, I am happy to cooperate with your investigation. Though I must ask– just how might I do that?”

Another ploy, of course. Chabouillet, less recently familiar with the cunning of the criminal mind, takes a cautious approach: “Monsieur?”

“Forgive me– but if I am the convict you say, then every word from my mouth would be taken as a lie, correct?”

“Yes.”

“And any papers I give you, no matter how legitimate, might simply be taken for very persuasive forgeries, correct?” 

“Yes.” 

“I am sure that the men you captured have told you that I give alms under a false name in order to preserve my safety and privacy– I confess that encounter was not the first time that I was accosted by those who were driven to desperation. No doubt that practice would muddle your investigation.” Still that calm, reasonable voice– but Valjean fidgets with his cravat, his fingers lingering over a certain part of his chest. Javert can all but smell the cooking meat of the mark there. 

“I am afraid so, Monsieur.” 

“So is there anything I can do to put this matter to rest? Or can I only submit to have my life and privacy upended until you are satisfied?” 

Javert’s lips curl in a grimacing smile. This was not their plan, but it is even more perfect than he’d intended. They have no warrant, and the man they are chasing is officially dead– but if he identifies himself here and now, of his own free will, then there will be no escape even for Jean Valjean. 

“As a matter of fact, there might," he says. "Every prisoner who entered the bagne was given a brand, precisely for the reasons you say.”

Valjean barely restrains a flinch at that. “A brand, Inspector?”

“Yes. On the chest. Burned into the flesh as it is, the marks do not fade with time. The most irrefutable proof, then, would be found there.” He extends a hand expextantly. “If you would.” 

“Javert!” Chabouillet sounds outraged and mortified all at once, but he does not stop him.

Valjean hesitates, looks nervously toward Chabouillet for rescue-- and, finding none, swallows and brings his hands to his throat.

Javert leans forward, all but salivating, as Valjean’s thick fingers reluctantly work at the knot in his cravat. He hesitates, glances helplessly at his two captors, and sets it aside. Javert’s eyes rove over the bare inch of neck exposed, searching for the scar left by nineteen years in an iron collar. 

Those hands linger over the buttons of his shirt, slipping first one from its constraint, then the next, moving carefully so not even a sliver of naked flesh shows between them. 

“You will have to forgive me, Messieurs,” Valjean says, as if he can buy himself a reprieve with their sympathy. “I’m afraid I have not fully recovered from my ordeal.” And finally, finally, he peels back the edge of his shirt. “But tell me– where on the body is this brand meant to be?”

Javert has had enough of this infernal teasing! With a sound of triumph he pounces, grabbing at the halves of the offending shirt and nearly tearing the fabric in his rush to bare more of that chest. There is a gasp from Valjean, but it is drowned out by Chabouillet’s cry of alarm.

“Javert!” he demands. “What the devil has gotten into you– unhand this gentleman at once! I am so sorry, monsieur. You cannot imagine my mortification– Javert, let go .”

But Javert can barely hear him. The whole of his attention is fixed on that chest. It is broad, impossibly muscled for a man of his age and class. The skin is snow-pale from decades hidden away from the sun, with a frost of white hair that does nothing to hide the marks on his skin: deep bruises, so raw that they look almost like burns, framed by dotted lines of ugly inflamed lacerations where thorns had gouged through his clothes. 

There is no prisoner’s brand. There is no raised ring at the base of his throat. There are none of the long ridges where a lash might have curled over the shoulder on its way down his back.

Powerful hands close around Javert's wrists, cool to the touch and as unyielding as shackles, but they draw his hands away with an undeniable gentleness. 

“As you can see, Inspector,” says the man who must be– but who is not– Jean Valjean. “You have been mistaken.” 

“I assure you, monsieur,” Chabouillet says. “He will be disciplined for this breach of protocol. I had no idea he would behave this way to a man of your standing–”

“Please, do not be hard on him. The people of this city would be well served if all officers upheld the law as rigorously to the rich as they do to the poor. No harm has been done.” 

Javert stares up helplessly into that man’s eyes– that look of tender pity– and in that moment he is in a different uniform in a different room, begging for his dismissal from a man with those same broad shoulders and that same face and those same damned eyes, and he was met with that same easy forgiveness  because he was right! He was right then and he is right now! He cannot be wrong! He can’t!

But the evidence against him is staring him in the face. It is impossible. 

And yet, it is. 

After they have left the apartment (so recently dusted that the stale smell of it lingers in the air, and no signs of recent use in the fireplace beyond the flame currently licking at the chimney– the apartment has, until the previous evening, stood unoccupied) Javert is marched to Chabouillet’s office for a dressing down worthy of his failure. He accepts his patron’s wrath without protest or any attempt at defense. He had thought his trap inescapable; it was his own hubris that left him unprepared for whatever trick Valjean had kept– very literally– up his sleeve. 

Nineteen years of scars and brands may fade over time, but they do not wholly disappear. 

While Chabouillet upbraids him, Javert tries to think back: Had he ever actually seen Madeline’s bare skin? Oh, he had pictured it, certainly– many sleepless nights had been spent fantasizing about tearing the saintly mayor’s shirt from his back and revealing those damning marks for the world to see. But had he ever actually seen them?

According to the courtroom reports, Valjean had revealed his deception purely through knowledge he shared with the other prisoners. He’d left Arras before any of the inept court officers could detain him, let alone strip away his undeserved raiment. During his recapture, there had been enough shock and lingering sympathy to afford Valjean some measure of privacy in his cell while he changed into the more appropriate prisoner’s smock. Of this, Javert is sure: if anyone would have been allowed to view the man’s final humiliation, it would have been himself.

But he never had that chance. He hasn’t actually seen Valjean’s bare skin since Toulon, and even then only when he and the other guards were adding fresh scars to him.

Scars like those do not simply disappear. 

Javert’s feet bring him to the jail where yesterday’s captured men await their fate. In this one’s case, the blade of a guillotine. The man has many names, most of which are listed in his file, but those aren’t any of Javert’s concern. He isn't here to talk about Jondrette or Thénardier or whatever he's calling himself this hour.

The man is sitting on his little bench on the back wall of his cell, picking at the dirt under his nails. He pointedly does not look up. “Good morning, Inspector. Still alive, I see? More’s the pity.”

Javert doesn’t indulge him with a response to that. “You stole roses from a hothouse,” he says instead. “Why?”

Still he picks at his nails, as if his remaining time on earth can't be measured in days. “Oh, I’m told that wild roses are more effective, but where's a man meant to find those in February? So hothouse flowers will simply have to do.” 

“More effective for what?”

“If you’re looking to brighten up these cells, I recommend you buy your wares from Madame Voclain. Desjardins had some that were quite handsome, but I’m afraid his plants aren’t what they used to be– do you know, something happened to the glass panes in his hothouse? Tragic, really, how delicate flowers can be.”

Javert advances on the bars dividing them. “You bound him with watch chains and rosaries and flower stems. Why?” 

“Think for a moment, Inspector. Surely one of your  persuasion  is already familiar with vampires!”

Javert’s hands close into fists. He should have expected no less than for this filth to jab at his parentage. There is a reflexive urge to defend himself, to declare that the ones who raised him never wasted time entertaining any sort of base fairy tales, but he does not. This man and his jibes are not worth his time or his breath, beyond: “You speak nonsense.”

“And yet, here we are.” The prisoner gestures widely: to himself, to Javert, to the prison cell. “You wouldn’t have come if you didn’t have some suspicions.”

“You implied that he was dangerous.”

“Oh, yes, he is. Very dangerous.” And he drags the collar of his shirt away from his neck, revealing two ugly scars. “You see these? My good wife has marks just like them on her, same place as me. Look close: this wasn’t the work of some rich man’s prize hound.”

Javert narrows his eyes. Sure enough, the curve is all wrong to belong to any breed of dog. “Are you saying he bit you?”

“Oh, he did more than that. Nearly killed us both. Clamped down like a limpet and nearly sucked us dry. It’s a miracle we survived at all– though by the time we recovered our strength, we’d lost our inn– our only source of income, you understand– and really, after that, could you blame an honest man for resorting to dishonest means–”

“Enough,” Javert snaps, and turns on his heel. He doesn't need to listen to this whining. There is only one thing he wants to hear from this man's mouth, and it concerns only Jean Valjean. “Expect to see me again. I’m not finished with you.”

Javert has, in fact, heard of vampires– though the pamphlets that describe him resemble improving literature far less than they do outright pornography. Unsurprisingly, those volumes stored in the evidence lockup have long since been taken out for further investigation and never returned.

It is an easy enough matter to find more in the collection of an illicit bookseller and confiscate them along with the more seditious materials on sale. He only peruses them for a few moments before setting them discreetly beneath other paperwork. The precinct is lax enough in its discipline; the last thing he needs is for his subordinates to see him reading this filth at his desk. He will simply need to continue his research in the privacy of his lodgings.

Alternate title: In Which Inspector Javert is Thoroughly Vexed by a Strip Tease and Makes Questionable Life Choices

A historic note: smutty vampire stories were particularly popular at the time, described as a "Vampyre Craze" in 1820.

I've got a nice backlog of chapters already written, but I'm keeping my post schedule slow for the time being, so the next chapter will be out on June 4.

Content warning: ableism and writing off the experiences of those deemed insane.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


“Javert, have you lost your mind?”

Admittedly, Javert’s appearance does him no favors. He has shaved and dressed fastidiously before coming to Chabouillet's office, but between the long patrols spent circling Valjean’s residence and the longer nights spent researching popular superstition on the subject, he looks accurately like a man who has spent several nights with nearly no sleep. Apparently it leaves even Chabouillet’s confidence in him shaken.

“The prisoner is willing to confirm his identity under oath,” Javert says steadily. 

“The prisoner– the one who spent hours torturing him? The one who is very obviously insane? He was under the impression Monsieur Fauchelevant was some kind of  monster, for God’s sake.” 

Ah.

That had been another source of Javert’s sleeplessness: in three days, he has yet to find a satisfactory way to broach that subject with his superior.

“Regarding that matter,” he says, as close to delicately as he has ever managed. “Are we prepared to fully discount his claim?”

His patron stares at him as if Javert himself has grown fangs and turned into a bat. “You can’t be serious.”

As a matter of fact, he is. During his dedicated patrols, he has gathered some intelligence: Jean Valjean avoids venturing out at midday. When he does leave, he is always careful to walk on whichever side of the street casts him in shadow, always wearing a hat with a brim slightly larger than is in fashion. These excursions are made to the market and to stand outside churches to listen to mass through the windows (but he never ventures inside), and returns to his home promptly. More often he goes out at twilight and stays out late into the night, giving alms to the poor and speaking kindly to every beggar who reaches for his coattails. On one such occasion Javert lost sight of him for nearly half an hour, and when he returned there seemed to be a greater comfort to his movements, as if he has been relieved of a lingering pain.

It paints a picture out of implication and suggestion, but it provides no hard evidence.

“The accusation has been made against him, and it would be careless not to investigate.”

“An accusation made by  the madman who tortured him.” 

“But it isn’t beyond a possibility. It wasn’t so long ago that several accused vampires were–”

“Yes, Inspector, I am well aware of that episode of mass hysteria. I had expected you to know better than to put credit in any sensationalism that comes from the Americas.”

“And yet it aligns with the evidence of the case.”

“What evidence?” Chabouillet nearly shouts. 

“The marks on his face in the shape of a crucifix–”

“Do you mean the crucifix with which he was savagely beaten? It still has pieces of him embedded in it!”

“And the lack of a prisoner’s brand–”

“He has no brand because he was never in prison because  he is not Jean Valjean!  I have indulged you this project long enough, Javert, but clearly it has only fed some sort of delusion. Jean Valjean is dead. He died on  the Orion  and he has been dead ever since.” 

“We can’t be sure of that– no body was ever retrieved from the water. And if he wasn’t human, then who can say if such a fall would have–”

“Javert!”

“I saw him! You yourself authorized my pursuit of him from that very house– He was seen by a dozen officers of the law!”

“They saw a man–  yes, a criminal– fleeing from one of the most notorious rat holes in the city. But that was just a man. Not one of them so much as glimpsed his face. Broad shoulders are not unique to Jean Valjean.” He sets both hands on his desk and rises to his full height. “You will not pursue this any more.”

“Monsieur–”

“That is an order." His voice nearly echoes back from the far corners of the room. "If Monsieur Fauchelevant had decided to press charges, I would have no choice but to dismiss you, do you understand that? To continue this investigation would be nothing short of harassment. Our force has already been humiliated by an unfounded accusation. I will not allow this obsession to further debase our reputation– or yours. Do I make myself clear?” 

Javert’s hands are clenched in fists at his sides. He is nearly shaking with fury– but he has long since learned to harness his rage to more productive ends. He won’t waste any more of it snarling at his patron. 

“Yes, monsieur. I understand.” 

Valjean paces the floor of the Rue de l’Homme Arme, feeling himself grow more frantic by the hour. He has only allowed himself to see Cosette twice since the incident at the Gorbeau tenement, and on both occasions the relief at seeing her was nearly washed away by the flood of anxieties that he brought with him: what if his winding paths hadn’t been enough– what if someone had followed him to her? What if something happened to Cosette while he wasn’t close by to protect her? What if they were lying in wait even now? What if in his agitation he had failed to cover the marks properly and she saw them? He has dared to feed only once in that time– but what if his pursuers spotted him? What if they expose him to Cosette?

Perhaps he might be able to dismiss his fears as unreasonable (have they ever been before?), except that on odd intervals he will catch a glimpse of Inspector Javert in a crowd, feel eyes on the back of his neck, inhale the scent of him near his door. Only  his door, thank the Almighty– for all that he has searched Rue Plumet for signs of unwelcome visitors, it still seems hidden. 

The most prudent course of action, then, is to keep his distance and bide his time until the hunters lose interest. There are only two drawbacks to that plan:

The first: for all his years spent in hiding, he has learned that isolation no longer agrees with him. He has spent these past eight years spoiled by Fauchelevant and Cosette’s companionship. His adopted brother is gone– God keep him– and without his daughter's presence to sooth him, his thoughts run wild from one anxiety to the next. 

The second: one of his hunters is Inspector Javert. That man has not yielded the chase since Montreuil-sur-Mer; it is unlikely he will abandon it now. With him on the trail, Valjean doesn’t even dare to flee the city: he only narrowly escaped Javert once this week, and such an obvious attempt to escape will be little better than a confession of guilt. 

If he and Cosette are to have any chance, he must first dissuade Javert from the hunt altogether. 

His mind is circling the problem of Javert so intently that an irrational part of him fears he might summon the man to his door. When a knock sounds and a familiar shape looms on the other side, he fears he might have been right.

Valjean takes a moment to steady himself, but his nerves are jostled loose again by a second harsh knock.

He is here. 

But he is here and that means he is not at the Rue Plumet. 

Valjean straightens his waistcoat, adjusts his cravat, and opens the door. “Inspector Javert.”  

The man on his front step stands so stiffly he might have been carved from wood– even more so, in fact, than he once did in Madeline’s office. 

“Monsieur Fauchelevant,” he says, and sketches a short, rigid bow. “I have come to offer an apology.” 

Valjean does not allow his gaze to move from Javert’s face, but he scents the air for any sign of other officers lying in wait. None make themselves immediately obvious, but the street is far from empty.

“Perhaps this is a conversation best had out of the cold.” He steps back from the door. “Please, come inside.” When Javert obeys, he adds, “May I take your coat?”

“That won’t be necessary,” Javert says, though he relinquishes his hat. “I don’t expect to stay long.” 

This is a trap. It is so very obviously a trap, but Valjean hasn’t yet made out the shape of it. Until he does, he has only the rituals of civility to safeguard him from this man. “I can prepare you something to drink, then.”

“I would prefer to get straight to the point,” Javert says. “When we last spoke, I acted… rashly. It has been impressed upon me that my actions have humiliated my precinct and myself– and, I fear, your person. I wish to express my deep regret for my thoughtless behavior.” He shifts his weight, as though he badly wants to fidget but is too disciplined to give in to the urge. “And I hope you will allow me the chance to explain myself.” 

What is his game in all of this? Is he playing for time? Acting as a distraction while his men close in? Is he hoping to lead into another accusation? 

“Very well,” Valjean says carefully.

“I thank you, monsieur.” Javert makes another short, stiff bow. “Please understand– it is not uncommon to find myself fixated on a person for reasons beyond my immediate comprehension. Through experience I have learned that most often it is because instinct has caught some evidence of guilt that my conscious mind had not yet lighted upon. Until now, the answer has always been to throw myself into an investigation and trust that the truth will reveal itself in time. What I failed to realize is that there might be… other reasons that my attentions might be drawn.” Carefully, deliberately, he meets Valjean’s eyes. “I hope that was the only signal I misread, monsieur.” 

A slight movement draws Valjean’s attention, and he glances down to see what weapon Javert has decided to draw. The answer is none: his right hand flexes uselessly at his side, his knuckles hidden beneath the new patches on his glove.

That is the moment when he realizes his mistake.

He has been aware of Javert’s attraction to him in Montreuil– the way his scent changed when they stood together was difficult to ignore– but he has always assumed Javert to be a man too tightly bound by discipline and self-denial to so much as acknowledge those feelings.

When he pressed a kiss to Javert's hand and made those insinuations, Valjean had only intended to render him flustered and unbalanced enough to leave without protest. He was never meant to reciprocate!

But Valjean can still salvage this. Already the easy answer unfolds before him:

Disgust. Disdain. That any interest extended before was extinguished when Javert assaulted him before his superior. That he has seen Javert’s hounding in the intervening days and intends to file a complaint. That he is so outraged by what has happened that he intends to leave Paris entirely.

It would be so very simple. Even tidy. 

And it would be unspeakably cruel. 

The conflict must show on his face, because Javert averts his eyes. “I would understand if my earlier behavior changed your feelings on the matter.”

Yes. The obvious answer is yes.

“I… need time to think on this.”

“Of course.” Javert bows one last time. “Take all the time you need.

Javert is uncommonly pleased with himself as he returns to his lodgings that evening. Historically he has had some difficulties in crafting a persuasive lie, but he had rehearsed this encounter for hours, practicing every turn of phrase to speak only the truth and allow implication and innuendo do the rest. And now the investigation may continue unimpeded (albeit unofficially) under the guise of puppyish infatuation.

Such masterful work warrants a pinch of snuff, he tells himself, and indulges in the habit before settling back into his latest volume of research. 

Alternative chapter title:In Which A Steady Diet Of Vampire Erotica Leads To Perfectly Reasonable Methods Of Catching One.Fun historical note– There was an epidemic of Vampire hunts -- as in, people digging up and staking corpses-- in New England in the 1700s, believed to be caused by an outbreak of Tuberculosis at the time. It's frequently cited to be some part of the inspiration for the rise in vampire fiction a little later. Notably, the epicenter of the vampire hunts seemed to be not far from Salem, Massachusetts.

Next chapter will be up on June 11


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Morning comes again, and Valjean is no nearer to forming an answer to Javert’s declaration. At least a dozen responses have been crafted, drafted, and then crumpled and added to the growing pile on the inside of his fireplace, each one rejected as unsatisfactory. The situation is even more frustrating because he’s rightfully had nearly a decade to think of a response– after all, he had never been ignorant of Javert’s attraction. He’d simply opted to never acknowledge it.

The greater problem is that he has no idea what Javert’s proclamation even means within the context of all the rest. Valjean knows that Javert has sniffed him out in the past– at the Gorbeau tenement years ago, and in Montreuil before that– but his superior seemed exasperated by the reminder. Has Javert been accusing  every man he’s felt attraction to of being Prisoner 24601? Did he give voice to his feelings because Valjean proved he wasn’t that man (however incorrectly)-- or is this all just a plot to entrap him again? Perhaps he thinks a second, more intimate look at Valjean’s body will reveal his unscarred skin to be the result of some clever application of makeup?

(Here his thoughts are derailed for several minutes while he struggles to compose himself, caught between mortification and hysteria at the mental image of Javert exploring his body with mounting frustration.)

 It could be useful,  whispers a part of himself he had meant to leave behind in Digne.  He could look to his fill and never find a scrap of evidence to condemn me. He might even ask to try again. It wouldn’t hurt to let him look.  

But it would. It would be deceptive, manipulative–


 More deceptive than using a false identity and pretending to be human? More manipulative than provoking him to look for brands that don’t exist? 


The lie could not be cast aside, not without endangering Cosette. Indeed, reinforcing the deception might persuade Javert to put aside his hunt for good. 

And didn’t The Bishop himself cast aside the truth in the name of Valjean’s protection? And certainly there were sainted people within the Holy Canon who had taken men’s desires for them and turned them toward the greater good– Ruth and Judith, and others still– and so it couldn’t be  wholly a sin, could it?

He stops himself, feeling bile rising in his throat. It would be an easy path to walk down, and easier still to rationalize it once he was already there. 

He reads over the discarded rejections one last time, searching them for any insights that might have gone unnoticed before– and finding none, he burns the pile to ashes. 

Pacing like a caged animal is helping nothing. The situation will be clearer once he’s gotten outside and cleared his head– and eaten, he reminds himself. It’s been nearly a week since he’s fed, and too much of that had already been spent speeding his recovery. It’s still early yet; surely he can call on one of his contacts before the night grows too bitterly cold. 

He only makes it a few streets from the Rue de l’Homme Arme before he catches a familiar scent on the wind, and a moment later he spots a looming silhouette coming the opposite way. 

He pretends not to see and silently puts aside his plans. He won’t risk his secret, or the liberty of his contacts, just to settle his anxieties. The meal can wait another night.

Valjean tries again in the early morning, and once again he spots Javert in the crowd, so innocuous that anyone else might have called it a coincidence. This time their eyes meet across the distance; Javert tips his hat, just slightly, and Valjean surrenders to polite convention and returns the gesture.

The next day it happens again.

Valjean can’t keep hiding away. If Javert really is on his scent, then bolting out of fear would be playing into his trap; if he’s merely struck by some bizarre infatuation, then avoiding him might only make him try harder to create a chance encounter. 

And so: the next time he spots Javert across a thoroughfare, he holds the inspector’s gaze and slows his pace, allowing their paths to finally cross.

“Good afternoon, Monsieur Fauchelevant,” Javert says, as if this was simply a chance meeting, rather the latest of multiple thwarted attempts to corner him. 

“Good afternoon, Inspector.” Valjean braces himself for a predator’s gloating or a lover’s awkward pining, and finds himself feeling up to neither. Still, he will endure what comes to meet him.

“You haven’t taken the paper yet today, have you?”

Valjean doesn’t quite know what to make of that. He tries to sift the words for some hidden meaning, but nothing is immediately apparent. “I’m afraid not.” And he dares to ask, “Why?”

“I had hoped you might know when the weather is meant to improve. I’ve had enough of this damn cold.” 

 Is it some kind of secret barb? Perhaps there’s some damning story on the front page that he’s meant to see. But he has long since learned to school his expression. Whatever it is, he would rather know sooner and be prepared for the worst.

“As a matter of fact, I had planned to purchase a paper while I was out. You’re free to look it over.” 

Javert makes an awkward sound of thanks as Valjean steers them toward the nearest paperseller. He makes the purchase and passed the broadsheets to Javert, though not without glancing surreptitiously at the headlines. There has been an outbreak of cholera in London and a slave rebellion in Jamaica, and there is more unrest spilling over from those silk workers who have taken Lyon, but nothing pertains directly to himself. More striking than the contents of the paper, though, are the hands holding it open. 

Javert’s gloves are the same pair that he wore more than a week ago at the Gorbeau incident. The torn knuckles have since been mended, but it’s barely a patch job. The wool is so thin that shadows of his skin are visible beneath. 

“Will the weather turn, then?” he asks, once Javert has had a chance to find the proper section.

The inspector grimaces. “For the colder.”

“Perhaps some new gloves are in order, then.”

“In due time,” Javert says, and folds the paper before handing it back. “You’ll notice my hands are unusually large– gloves to accommodate me are a specialty item, and those do not come cheaply.” 

Already Valjean’s mind is moving down familiar paths. 

“May I see?” Tucking the paper under one arm, Valjean fits his hand against Javert’s to compare the two. Indeed Javert’s fingers are longer, but Valjean’s palms are wider, and altogether they aren’t so very different in size. Satisfied, he takes off his own gloves. “Try these on for size.”

Javert obeys with a queer expression on his face, utterly intent on his task, as if he might be harshly judged on his technique. What difference lies between their hands is easily accommodate by the give of the supple leather and the thin layer of fleece that lines it; altogether, the fit is nearly perfect.

“These are of high quality,” Javert says carefully. “Where do you have them made?” 

“The seller is D’Aramitz, not far from here,” Valjean says. “Though you’re welcome to keep those.”

Javert’s gaze snaps back to meet his. “Monsieur, I know how expensive such articles can be. I would not take your charity.”

Of course not. A man like Javert takes pride in his austerity, even if it costs him a few fingers to maintain it. Never mind that it is painful to see him endure the cold; by the time Valjean can think of a way to persuade him to accept a pair of gloves, it will be already summer. 

“I didn’t intend it as charity.” He doesn’t know what makes him say it, but once they begin they cannot be stopped. “More as a token.” 

Javert blinks. Swallows. His hands flex, and Valjean very vividly imagines the soft fleece caressing his palms. 

“Your hands will be cold,” Javert says at last, sounding not entirely present in his own voice.

“I have another pair at home.”

“That’s some distance from here, if I’m not mistaken.” 

This would be a poor time to point out that, while the Rue de l’Homme Arme is a fair walk, the Rue Plumet address is far closer– or that the cold no longer bites into him the way it did when he was still human. 

“If you’re concerned, perhaps you can join me at a cafe,” he says instead. “And we can warm ourselves over a drink.” 

By the time they part ways, Valjean is close enough to the Rue Plumet address that he is willing to risk a return– though not without taking a circuitous route around it and slipping through the hidden entrance along the garden wall. 

As he makes his way toward the main house, he catches a scent on the breeze– it’s faint and only barely familiar, clearly not from anything eventful enough to leave a memory behind. It has him on edge– but then, very little doesn’t. Still, there is no accompanying odor of blood or gunpowder or fear, and so he pushes it to the edge of his mind for later consideration.

He has barely entered the house before Cosette is there, and immediately all shadows are chased from his thoughts by the brightness of her smile.

“Papa, you’re back,” she exclaims, throwing her arms around him. “Will you be back to stay, then? Were you able to get things settled with that man’s landlord?” 

More than a week ago he’d left for the Gorbeau tenement, supposedly to assist Thenardier with his rent. Valjean had hidden his wounds from Cosette, but there was little he could do to disguise how haggard and exhausted he’d looked after, or to distract from the fact that he’d been gone several days on that errand. The result was a cobbled-together lie about a complicated situation involving a stubborn landlord.

“The rent is settled for the remainder of the month,” Valjean lies– he does not think about how easily these lies come to him. “There are some matters that still need to be settled, but the landlord has requested a few days to gather his thoughts on the matter before we speak again.”

Cosette’s brows rise thoughtfully. “If the situation is so entangled, might it help to consult a lawyer on the matter?” 

His mind rushes to the paper folded in his coat. Had there been some mentions of Thenardier’s arrest? How much does Cosette know?

“That’s an excellent idea,” he says, careful not to let his dread show. “What brought it to your mind?” 

An odd smile crosses Cosette’s face. “I had a brief conversation with a lawyer the other day– while Toussaint and I were at the market. He’s still a student, but I imagine he wouldn’t mind offering some insight, if you went to see him.”

There are certainly insights Valjean would like to have. Who this schoolboy is, for one, and where he found the nerve to approach a young woman unintroduced– while Touissaint was distracted with the day’s purchases, no doubt. It reminds him all too much of the slackjawed boy he’d caught gawking at Cosette at the Luxembourg Gardens. He’s aware that Cosette is only growing lovelier by the day, and so her admirers will grow more bold, but he doesn’t have to like it. 

“I’ll need to ask my friend if he wants another party involved in his affairs,” he says stiffly. “He may prefer to keep his privacy in these matters.” 

“Of course,” Cosette says quickly. “I didn’t give him any details– I only said that you were having trouble with a complicated legal matter, and he wanted to know if he could help.” She lowers her eyes with a blush. Before Valjean can assure her that he isn’t cross with her– really, he’s proud that she’s so eager to help– her attention has caught elsewhere, and her hands close on his. “Papa, what’s become of your gloves?” 

“Ah.” Now it’s his turn to blush. He’d been hoping to avoid the subject. “On my way home I came across someone who had a need for them. The weather is turning colder, and gloves of our size aren’t easy to come by on short notice.”

"I do wish you would keep a second pair in your coat if you mean to give them away," Cosette chides. "Your hands are always so cold, and now they feel like ice. Come on, let’s sit you down by the fire and I’ll bring you some tea.” She helps him out of his coat and ushers him into the drawing room. No sooner does she have him settled into the cozy armchair than she kisses him on the cheek. “You’re a good man, Papa.”

He bites his tongue as she hurries away to prepare the tea.

Despite his best efforts, despite what he’s led his daughter to believe, Jean Valjean knows himself to be a selfish and cowardly man. If he were anything less, he wouldn’t lie to his daughter so easily, or manipulate what he tells her to put himself in the best light. But the thought of her seeing him for the miserable wretch he truly is leaves him petrified. And so on top of the insurmountable lies he piles smaller evasions that feel like a greater sin for their mundanity. After all, he can justify not telling her about his curse, about his past, about what happened to her mother– those omissions serve to protect her, the way the Bishop’s lies once protected him. 

But there is no reason why he should avoid the truth of the gloves: that in order to persuade their recipient to take them, he allowed Javert to believe his affections were returned. But he doesn’t want Cosette to think of him as the sort of person who could so heartlessly toy with another man’s feelings. 

He tells himself that it’s better this way. The story he told may not be entirely true, but what it should have been might serve as an example to Cosette. And perhaps Javert won’t ever know. The heart is a fickle thing, after all. Perhaps once they’ve had a few more conversations, Javert will lose interest and move along, and there will be nothing gained or lost but a pair of gloves. 

He can only hope.

Javert has always dreamed of Jean Valjean. They have always been the reflection of the chase, of wrestling that impossible strength to the ground and subduing him in the grip of the law, or of being himself overcome, thwarted in his aim but still triumphant to have gone down fighting. In those visions the satisfaction of doing his duty to the last is translated into a far more visceral gratification– it means little, of course, merely the same waking passion represented in the sordid language of dreams.

Tonight has no such explanation.

Tonight he stands on some unnamed street, unidentifiable for the veil of snow falling around them. All he can see clearly is Jean Valjean as the man gently tugs the ragged gloves from his hands, and, bending low, presses his lips to each scarred knuckle. Snowflakes catch in his lashes and hang there like stars as Valjean’s eyes turn to his face.

“Your hands are cold,” Valjean murmurs, the words informal and personal, and he takes the gloves from his own hands and slips them onto Javert’s. The fleece-lined leather eases away the chill, but still he shivers when he looks into Valjean’s eyes.

Listen, are symbolic gloves ever not gay?

Next update will be on a June 18th!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


In the morning– after Javert has cleaned himself up and splashed cold water on his face– he scours his notes on vampirism, but those pieces he does find don’t sound right at all. When his sources mention dreams, they are nightmarish visions of howling dogs and ravenous beasts. After several days and far too much frustration, he returns to his primary informant. 

Thénardier barely looks up from whatever he’s doing– stuffing bits of of old newspaper into cracks in the walls, apparently– but Javert doesn’t care. He’s here for information, not pleasant company. 

“Can vampires infect dreams?” he demands as soon as the door is shut behind him.

“Most things of the devil can,” Thénardier says. “Why? Having nightmares?” 

“He gave me these.” Javert pulls the offending gift from his coat pocket and brandishes them in Thénardier’s face. “Are they meant to be some kind of– of trick? A vector for a curse, or something of the sort?” 

Thénardier looks at the gloves and back Javert, and his lips curl into a mocking grin. “You’re thinking of witches.”

Javert has half a mind to rattle the bars. “Well? Is he a witch, too?” 

“How the hell should I know?” Thénardier asks sourly. “You’ve given me nothing but a pair of gloves to go on, haven’t you? Let me out and I can follow him around a bit and–” 

“Absolutely not.” His sentence might be delayed slightly while he acts as Javert’s informant, but Thénardier is still due for the guillotine.

“Fine, fine,” Thénardier mutters. “Then tell me about him Let me see what I can suss.” 

And so Javert talks. 

Not about all of it, of course. He’s already aware of a vampire’s gift for mesmerism, and that fits neatly enough with those moments that Javert’s mind empties of all thought and he’s overcome with the irrational need to be closer to the vampire. Even the mechanism is obvious enough: when Valjean kissed his hand, when he pressed their palms together, though sometimes all it takes is a glance and Javert’s thoughts unravel. 

Such a straightforward matter needs no clarification, of course.

“He seems determined to have me eat,” Javert says. “Almost every time I see him, he insists on taking me to lunch, or to a cafe, or share roasted chestnuts as we walk.”

“Hm. Ever thought he might be slipping something into your food, hm? Poisoning you with something?” 

“Of course I’ve thought of that,” Javert snaps. “It’s nearly always prepared in front of me, and always by somebody else. If there was anything untoward in the food, I would have seen it.” 

“Then maybe he’s fattening you up. He’s got to make sure you’ve got enough meat on your bones if he’s going to suck you dry.” 

Javert stops short at that. 

“I witnessed him feeding,” he says abruptly. “From someone else. A retired tailor, I believe.”

“What? Then what are you talking to me for? Why didn’t you run in pistols waving the way you did with me?”

Javert hesitates. “He was… careful. There was no specific charge I could have arrested him for.”

In fact, he’d stumbled across the event almost by accident. He’d heard hushed voices coming from an alley in a poor-off neighborhood, mutters to the effect of “out here tonight, my granddaughter’s having trouble sleeping– I don’t want her to see.” 

Javert had intended to interrupt the tryst– because obviously it had to be a tryst– and chase them off the street before they engaged in public indecency. But then he’d heard the other voice:

“Is she alright? Should I send for a doctor?” And that soft baritone could belong to none other than Jean Valjean.

“No, no,” the other man had said. “She simply gets like that sometimes, you understand. But we should probably hurry. It’s cold tonight.” 

In the reflection of a darkened window pane Javert watched Valjean unbutton the man’s cuff and slide his sleeve past his forearm. And then he pressed his lips to the exposed flesh. 

And in that moment, Javert had wanted to rush in, truncheon swinging, and put a stop to it– but not to make an arrest. His vision went red at the familiar way Valjean and the other man addressed each other, at the casual way they touched each other, skin to skin, as if they were– 

But before he could advance into that alley, they had separated once more, and Valjean was rolling the sleeve back down over a fresh wound.

“That is enough, for tonight, I think,” Valjean had said. 

“Monsieur?”

“As you said, it’s cold. I wouldn’t want you to take ill.”

“Come now,” the old man had said. “I might not be able to hold a needle anymore, but there’s still strength in these bones.”

“Then use them to embrace your grandchildren,” Valjean said. 

There was a jingle of coins, clear for a moment in the crisp air and then muffled in a gloved hand.

“Monsieur, you’ve overpaid me again.” It had the sound of an old argument, and Valjean’s response carried the note of a smile: 

“Call that selfishness on my part. You do me a great service in these visits. It is in my interest to see to it you’re well taken care of.”

In the present moment, Thénardier snorts his disdain. “No charge to arrest him for! Were you sleeping at the post? I don’t know much about the fancy terms of your lot, but I know assault and battery well enough. Or does that not describe this?” He wrenches his collar aside to reveal the ragged scars from when Valjean had fed on him, however many years past.

Javert allows his gaze to linger on the old wound. “Apparently he has learned caution since then.” 

Caution, he tells himself sternly. Because what he witnessed was merely an act– meant to mollify potential witnesses, or coax his victims into complacency–

 Are they victims, though?  whispers a seditious voice in the back of his mind. 

Thénardier scowls at whatever he sees in Javert's face.

“Then you’ll just have to look harder," he says. "That creature might dress himself up like a gentleman, but he’s a monster down to his bones. All you need is to find him out.” 

The first step of finding Valjean out, it seems, is finding him at all. Javert takes the same routes on his patrolls that have successfully brought him across the vampire’s path before, but there’s no sign of him. He calls on him at his apartment, but the portress can only tell him that Monsieur Fauchelevant isn’t in. All of that could be disregarded as poor timing and coincidence– but not the beggars on the street. They must have grown accustomed to seeing Javert walking at Valjean’s side these past few weeks, because now when he approaches they lean in to see if their favorite almsgiver is perhaps only obscured behind Javert’s greatcoat, and when they see nobody there they sit back again with blank looks that might have been disappointment.  

That discrepancy is what drives Javert to agitation. Did Valjean realize Javert had seen him drinking from the tailor? Has he plunged back into hiding– and if he has, will it be another eight years before Javert can catch him in the open again? Or will he have learned his lesson and stay hidden forever?

Or has he been caught already– have some uncaptured members of the Patron-Minette found him first, and decided to finish the job they started at the Gorbeau hovel? 

There is a perverse  wrongness to that thought that drags his attention to the image again and again, like an open sore that begs to be picked, and so he does not allow it to enter into his mind at all.

He expands his patrols to investigate the gang’s favored haunts, his ears pricked for scraps of rumor. 

The scent is back, this time undeniably inside the garden wall.

Valjean has caught it three times now– twice after he woke in the morning, and the third time when he returned home from feeding.

There is still no blood or fear-sweat on the air–yet– but on that last occasion he caught the acrid tang of gunpowder alongside the odors of sweat and shaving cream and (perhaps most alarmingly) the scent-signifiers of attraction.

The vast garden, once meant to give Cosette an entire world in miniature in which to safely roam, becomes sinister in light of this intrusion. Every wall is a point of entry. Each tree and overgrown shrub is a hiding place. The shifting wind is conspiring against him. And even when he tries patrolling the garden, he finds the scent sharp against the gate as if the intruder had been  leaning on it! 

A large part of him wants to hide her away at the Rue de l'Homme Arme address– if the intruder has been watching them closely enough to evade Valjean's midnight patrols, then simply changing houses might not be enough to throw them off the trail. He could take her further– to the countryside, to England, to America– but he fights against that instinct. He has spent his life looking over his shoulder and flinching at every shadow, and he will not allow the same fear that consumes him to take hold of her. He took a step too close in that direction already when he put a stop to their visits to the Luxembourg Gardens, and he remembers too well the way her smile dimmed after. He will not endanger her happiness if there is any other choice. 

He takes what measures he can to ensure her safety. He tries never  to let her out of his sight during the daylight hours– and even when that cannot be avoided, never strays out of earshot– and spends his nights prowling the gardens. 

His vigil leaves few opportunities for sleep, and none at all for him to slip away to feed, and he feels their lack pressing down on him. He would endure it– he has gone much longer without both, and can go on for longer still if necessary– but being always in Cosette’s presence means that she can see the change in him. She has started insisting that he rest, and pressing broth and tea on him that he knows will make no difference. It’s when she’s started asking if he’ll send for a doctor that he knows something must change.

He has precious few people whom he can trust, and fewer still who can offer him any help in this. Those from whom he feeds volunteer themselves as an act of last resort– too often, because they are in no condition to find paying work elsewhere– and he can’t bear to ask them to wait in the cold and dark for a potentially dangerous man to appear at his door. 

And so, in a moment of desperation, he pens a quick letter and pays a gamin to deliver it to Inspector Javert. 

Javert finds a letter on his desk when he arrives at the station in the morning: 


 The market at Rue L—-- 



 3:45 


 Please . 


 – U.F. 


When he first opens it, it is with confusion. When he reads it, it is with annoyance. In the intervening hours, it turns to agitation, then ire, and eventually outrage, until at the appointed time he's driven by a roiling fury.

The audacity of that creature! He vanishes for weeks without any word or sign, and then drops a note and expects him to heel like a well-trained dog! If this relationship wasn’t already an act, the insult of it all would be enough to make him end it then and there. No explanation, no apology, nothing but the expectation that Javert will obey.

His evil mood radiates around him as he paces the mouth of an alley near the market, and shoppers hurry past to avoid lingering in his line of sight. The effect is a pocket of emptiness with him at its center. Good. At least one of them won’t be difficult to find.

Even so, it’s he who spots Valjean first. His back is turned, but Javert doesn’t need to see his face to recognize him instantly. Whatever Chabouillet may say, the man is unmistakable in the breadth of his shoulders and the way he tries so intently to hide it, his snowy hair, his slight limp (more pronounced than usual, Javert observes, but his attention is on other matters).

He’s in the company of two women. One, older and matronly, inspects the nearest vegetable stand with a master’s eye. The other, a pretty young thing in a fashionable dress, positively  clings to Valjean’s arm.

Javert’s grip tightens on his cane so intensely that the wood creaks in protest. 

He should have known. Idiot that he is, he bought into the illusion of respectability as easily as everyone else, but the signs were always there. The books of his research are very clear on the preferred tastes of vampires– and experience has taught him that wealthy gentlemen are always eager to entertain girls young enough to be their daughters. 

He should go, he tells himself, before Valjean has the chance to spot him. A confrontation in his present mood would only spoil the work he’s already done. He ought to swallow his ire– but right now, he suspects he might choke on it. 

He readies to make his escape when Valjean turns away from the vegetable stand, and all thought flies from Javert’s mind.

Valjean’s clothes are immaculate, but his face is gray and drawn and haggard, more like a corpse than Valjean has ever seen him, save once: when he was being prized from the torture-chair at the Gorbeau hovel. 

Javert is halfway across the market square before he’s aware of making the choice to move, and shoppers duck out of his path. The movement must catch Valjean’s attention, because in the next moment their eyes meet, and he excuses himself from the two women and heads toward him.

Javert amends his earlier conclusion– Valjean wasn’t flaunting the girl on his arm, he was  leaning on her, and without her support he nearly staggers across the square. That can’t be right.  That can’t be right. Valjean is strong, so unspeakably strong. He never staggered, not even under the weight of a ship’s mast across his shoulders, never at all except once– and Javert remembers the way he had to be helped down the tenement stairs, how he all but dragged himself into the carriage–

“Javert.” The relief on Valjean’s face is nearly painful to look upon, but it’s made even worse when he glances over his shoulder at the two women he left behind. “Thank you for meeting me here.” Another, compulsive glance, like he expects them to have vanished in the time it took to say six words. “I– I am sorry for calling on you like this, but–” 

“But something’s happened,” Javert concludes. 

“Yes,” Valjean says, nearly deflating with relief, and Javert grips his elbow to steady him.

“Well? Out with it!”

Perhaps that was too loud– Valjean flinches, and several nearby shoppers glance their way. 

“Not here,” Valjean mutters, as if the entire crowd might be listening in. “I’m staying at the Rue Plumet, Number 55. Can you meet me there?”

“Why all this, then?” Javert demands. “Why didn't you just tell me in your note to meet you there instead?” 

Valjean visibly fights back another flinch. He looks helplessly up at Javert, visibly rallying himself through frayed nerves and exhaustion to put the words in order, and Javert is struck by an unfamiliar pang of guilt. 

“...you thought it might be intercepted,” Javert says quietly. The note was delivered by a gamin, of course. And all too many of those will do odd jobs for the Patron-Minette and their ilk. He scowls. “Gamins can be unreliable messengers.”

“You can’t fault a hungry child for not asking where their food is coming from,” Valjean says softly, and Javert remembers all too well the way the children of Montreuil-sur-Mer chased after his coattails. He nearly lets the words slip out, but he’s interrupted by the same young woman who’d propped Valjean up before, appearing as if out of nowhere at his side.

“There you are, Papa,” she says brightly, and with perhaps a bit more force than would be seemly for a girl her age, and inserts herself between the two of them. “I do hope I’m not interrupting anything?” She says it with the same protective edge with which a bodyguard might say,  is this man bothering you? 

“Ah. No, of course,” Valjean nearly stammers. “Cosette, this is Inspector Javert. Javert, my daughter.” 

She offers her hand and Javert nearly forgets what the hell he’s supposed to do with it, too caught up in shuffling certain facts around in his head.

The girl is perhaps sixteen, maybe a year or two older or younger, meaning she had to have been born a significant time before Valjean left Montreuil, and he was certain Madeline didn’t have any children– but that prostitute did, the one he’d been so fixated on. Valjean hadn’t been able to shut up about the child at the time of his arrest. And when Javert had first hunted Valjean through the streets of Paris, he’d been intently concealing something– Javert had assumed stolen goods, but those were easily abandoned in the heat of a chase. A child, though…

“It’s wonderful to meet one of my father’s friends,” the girl says, dragging him back into the present. “You must tell me, how do you two know each other?” 

“That’s a very long story,” Valjean says hurriedly. “And I’m sure the inspector is far too busy to indulge us with a telling.” The look in his eyes is one of near panic.

Javert coughs. “Indeed.” 

“Oh, I don’t mean to keep you,” she says, all sunshine. “Perhaps another time, then.” 

“Perhaps.” Javert tips his hat and steps back. “Good day to you, mademoiselle. Monsieur.” He meets Valjean’s eyes one last time.

Later.

Note: doing research for a completely different part of this fic, I thought I saw one of those historic blogs say that the garden of Rue Plumet was five acres (that number already seems absurdly huge for an urban setting. But in Paris???) I haven't been able to find that source again since to double-check it, so if I'm way off, please file that alongside the vampire stuff as far as suspending your disbelief. Just pretend that the grounds are large enough that you can't reasonably watch the entire thing by just standing in one corner.

You might have noticed that the rating and chapter length went up-- ten chapters are what I've got written so far, though that number will probably go up again in the near future. The rating might have been inevitable with how... ah... focused Javert has been so far.

I'll see you for the next chapter on June 25th!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Daylight is stretching longer with the coming spring, but it’s still nearly twilight by the time Javert is able to make his way to the address Valjean gave him. He is only vaguely familiar with the area– even before the recent changes in his route, his patrols have tended toward the seedier parts of the city, while this one has, rather, gone to seed. The house on Rue Plumet overlooks a walled garden large enough to be a park in its own right, though through neglect it seems to have gone feral, with wild overgrowth only barely contained by stone walls and a wrought-iron gate.

Javert is close enough to touch the heavy gate when Valjean disentangles himself from the shadows of the house. He looks as haggard and corpselike as he did that afternoon, though the effect is somewhat lessened by the expression of guarded hope in his eyes. He fits a key into a well-oiled lock and steps aside to grant him entrance.

“Javert,” he says, softly enough that his voice doesn’t carry past the gate. He attempts a smile, but already his gaze flickers to the street beyond, and his nostrils flare slightly like an animal scenting the air.

“You don’t need to concern yourself,” Javert says as he steps inside and the gate is locked behind him. “I haven’t been followed.” Valjean looks surprised at that, and Javert rolls his eyes. “I am a professional, monsieur. I can avoid a tail when necessary.” Before Valjean can ask, he adds: “Tonight it wasn’t necessary.”

"That is a relief to hear."

Valjean leads the way– not to the front door, but along a narrow path just inside the wall that opens onto the garden. 

Weathered statues lurk half-hidden among the leafless foliage, which in this part of the season manages to look both wildly overgrown and entirely dead.

It’s no wonder he gave Javert the other address before. 

Javert can’t help but wonder: did Valjean ask the realtor for the most gothic location outside of Notre Dame, or was that merely implied? The only thing even remotely subdued about this place is the little hut tucked into the corner close to the wall, barely more than a modified toolshed, fitted as its own little living space. It is simple, unassuming, easily overlooked: in this grand estate that practically advertises itself to be home to a vampire, this is the only piece that feels at all suited to Jean Valjean.

When Javert casts a confused glance at the grand house, Valjean ducks his head sheepishly.

"The house itself is my daughter's. I would rather she not overhear us."

"She's prone to gossip?"

"Not at all. But the subjects of our discussion might be unsettling to her. I would spare her from that, if I could."

"More unsettling than the events at the Gorbeau house?" Javert asks, incredulous. "How terribly did she react, that you–" 

Valjean's expression is hidden by shadow, but Javert can read volumes in the shamed curl of his shoulders.

"--she doesn't know about that?"

"No," Valjean says, almost under his breath.

"Then how does she think you gained your injuries? Rescuing a drowning cat from the Seine?”

But the answer is obvious: she doesn't know about those, either.

"Is that why you gave me that other address? So you could hide yourself away from her until the bruises had a chance to fade?"

Abruptly Valjean turns and marches into the little hut, leaving Javert to chase after him. The little space is barely warmer than outside; only a few embers glow dully in the stove, and Valjean busies himself coaxing the fire back to life. Javert glowers at his back. 

"I don't understand you!" he snaps. "You went to all these ridiculous lengths to speak with me, and now you barely say a word! You summon me, and now that I'm here you run from me! Do you expect me to help you or to hunt you?"

Valjean goes very still. The latter, then. That would sting, were Javert actually in love with the infuriating man. Fortunately for them both, he's not.

“Very well,” he declares, rounding on the man. “You called on an inspector, so let us lay out the facts, shall we?”

Valjean is still turned to the furnace, but he’s watching intently from the corner of his eye. 

“For two weeks you’ve vanished, and since your reappearance you’ve twitched and rolled your eyes like a fox surrounded by hounds. You’re obviously terrified.” He paces in a wide circle around Valjean, who tries not to watch him in turn. “Any sane man would be. You were tortured by brigands, after all.  And yet.” He weighs the discrepancy in his mind for a moment before he gives voice to it. “You hardly seemed bothered at all by that incident. You might have hired security to watch your door. You might have found a new address. Instead you decided stay alone at the Rue de l’Homme Arme– the very address you gave to the Patron Minette.”

There’s another telltale jerk to Valjean’s head. Yes, Javert has the scent now.

“I’ve seen that letter they made you write, or rather, what we were able to salvage after they threw it in the fire– as one does with incriminating evidence. The name of the intended recipient was lost, but I did notice the language in the remaining pieces. You addressed the recipient with more familiarity than I’ve seen you use with anyone else, save for one.”

The unspoken hangs between them: Cosette.

Javert makes another turn around the small room. “Your captors seemed to believe that the address you gave them–  your address– was the wrong one for its intended recipient.”

“It was.” His tone is soft, but it carries an undercurrent of steel. 

“They nearly killed you for that trick.” 

“So you can imagine what such people might have planned for her.” Valjean is facing him directly now. Exhaustion is still heavy on his features, but he no longer staggers under the weight of it. Now he stands erect, his shoulders broad, his gaze steady and nearly defiant. 

Javert’s pulse is racing like he’s at the end of a chase, in those exhilarating moments when anything can happen and inevitably does, all at once. 

“Is there a reason why the Patron-Minette has targeted your daughter?” 

“The man who led the attack carries a particular grudge against me. It seems killing me isn’t enough to satisfy his revenge.”

“And clearly she is where you’re vulnerable,” Javert finishes for him. Valjean is lying, of course, but Javert suspects the important pieces are still there: that it is Thenardier specifically who has put a target on Cosette, and that it isn’t for any crime of her own so much as her association with others. Whether that has more to do with Valjean himself or with the extortion once pressed on the girl’s mother is a mystery that does not need to be solved just yet. “But everyone in that place is in jail; most are awaiting execution.”

“That’s why I thought it safe to come back here,” Valjean says. 

“But something’s changed.” 

Valjean nods. “I’ve found– signs. Of someone lurking around the house at night. Nothing definitive as of yet. Nothing for which I can justify calling on the police in any official way.”

“We’ve been summoned for less,” Javert says dryly. “But you aren’t wrong. If officers swarmed the area, your lurker would simply go to ground for a while and return a few weeks later.”

“I thought the same.” 

Javert does not ask if Valjean was led to that conclusion by his own criminal history. “How long has this been going on?”

“For some time. But it became impossible to ignore two weeks ago.” 

Yes, that aligns with Valjean’s sudden disappearance. The recollection brings with it the anxiety of thinking him gone, the relief of seeing him in one piece, the fierce need to guard his prey from the other beasts who might try to take him for their own. It’s a heady mix that blends all too easily with the thrill of the chase. “And you waited this long to say anything?”

“I had hoped that I would have caught them by now.”

 And if you had? Javert’s gaze slips down to Valjean’s broad shoulders, to his impossibly strong hands. Back up to his face, where fangs wait hidden behind a penitent mouth. 

“Failing that, you called on me.” Javert steps closer despite himself. “Why?” 

“There’s something that I need to do, but I don’t dare leave Cosette unprotected while I’m away.” Tellingly, Valjean averts his gaze. “I need you to keep watch for a short while. Only for a few hours.” 

Javert knows all too well how much can happen in such a short time.

“I can play a watchdog for a night,” he says. “But understand– I am an officer of the law. If you intend to involve another gang in this, or hire some kind of assassin–” 

“Nothing like that, I swear to you.” He says it with such intense sincerity that Javert nearly blushes.

“I’ll take your word on that,” he mutters, and tries to focus instead on the irony of taking a convict’s promise seriously. “Go, do what you must. I’ll see to it that your daughter is safe.” 

“Thank God for you, Javert.” Valjean takes his hand in both of his own, and Javert momentarily forgets how to breathe.

Mesmerism, he tells himself. Vampiric mesmerism. 

In short order they make the scant preparations: he’s clad in ragged old clothes from Valjean’s wardrobe (kept for gardening, he insists, though Javert suspects otherwise) and stationed on the corner across the street where he can get a clear view of any potential entrances and exists. He’s had enough practice staking out a target under the guise of a beggar, and though Valjean frets briefly, the arrangement is considerably more comfortable than usual. All these layers leave him surprisingly warm, for one. His borrowed clothes smell far better, too– instead of the unpleasant odors that tend to follow his disguises from the second-hand shops where he procures them, these still carry the scent of fallen leaves and turned earth and the sweat of a good day’s work, and he doesn’t mind burying his face in the collar when the wind blows particularly cold. 

All together, it’s well past midnight by the time Valjean returns to the Rue de l’Homme Arme.

Even with his night-creature’s senses, even knowing where to look and what to look for, it takes a long moment to pick Javert out from the shadows where he’s waiting. Javert raises himself to look at Valjean directly, but he never entirely looks away from the house.

“You’re looking better,” he observes in a low voice. “I take it your business went well?” 

“It did.” Self-consciously, Valjean wants to check his face for any leftover smears of blood. He’s called on several of his contacts tonight, drinking enough between them to last for another few weeks. “Thank you for keeping watch. I can take it up again from here.” 

Javert gives him a considering look. “I’m comfortable enough. I can stay here for a few more hours yet.” 

Valjean blinks. “You don't have to.”

“I’m aware of that.” His voice sharpens. “Just as I’m aware that you’ve barely slept in two weeks. Get some actual rest, and come find me in the morning.” 

Valjean protests, but not as stridently as he really should. In the end, he can only bring himself to thank Javert and press his hand before giving in to the temptation of bed. 

But it doesn’t escape his notice that, though they’re hidden beneath a wrapping of rags, Javert is wearing those fleece-lined gloves. 

Javert isn’t late when he arrives at the station that morning– he would never be  late to work– but he isn’t quite as early as usual, either. Valjean insisted on plying him with coffee after the night spent on the street corner, and then breakfast, and the chance to take a closer look inside the estate’s main house had been too great an opportunity to pass up. (And all the while Valjean had looked so relieved and grateful that Javert couldn’t refuse him, not without causing needless difficulty for his investigation.)

All of which does not leave him  distracted , but those thoughts not dedicated to his cases are actively occupied elsewhere. And so, when Chabouillet summons him to his office, it doesn’t take much for him to guess why.

The secretary to the prefect is imperious in his high-backed chair, and his wide desk looks in that moment uncannily like a judge’s bench. 

“Javert,” he says with a forced casualness that doesn’t suit his raised hackles. “I’m told a gamin stopped by the station yesterday morning, delivering a letter from…” He needlessly examines a note among his papers. “‘Some rich nob, the one what’s always giving alms.’ It seems the intended recipient was you.”

Javert’s posture is already impeccable, but he stiffens his spine further. “That’s correct, monsieur le secretaire.” 

“I thought I told you to put this matter to rest.”

“I did. In fact, several weeks ago I made my apologies to Monsieur Fauchelevant in person.”

Rather than looking relieved by this information, Chabouillet’s frown grows only more suspicious. “Did you?”

“Yesterday he sent for me hoping I could look into some disturbances on his street– he feared they might be connected with the incident at the Gorbeau hovel, and wanted someone familiar with the case to examine it more closely. And as he already had my name, I was the natural connection.”

“I’m sure.”

Javert gives a tight bow. “You are welcome to ask the gentleman if he has any further complaints regarding my behavior.”

Chabouillet nods absently and leafs through further notes. “And do you think his opinion would change if he was aware that you’ve been reorienting your patrol routes to circle his home? Or that you’ve been consulting with his torturer almost daily?”

Javert stiffens. “I see no reason why he would need to be informed of those matters.” 

“Then at least you’ve learned some discretion. I expect you to make good use of it.”

Were he a dog, Javert’s ears would prick at that. “Then my investigation–” 

 “Will be nothing but a hobby,”  Chabouillet says. “Let me make myself clear: if this gentleman comes forward with a complaint, then this evidence that you’ve continued looking into him will be enough to damn you. He is not to know anything about the matter, Javert–  anything – until you have put tangible, irrefutable proof of his guilt in my hands. And until you present that proof to me, I don’t want to hear another word about it, either. You might be ready to gamble your career on this case, but I will not have you stake the rest of the police force on it as well. Is that understood?”

“Perfectly, Monsieur le secretaire.” Javert gives another, deeper bow. “You can be sure that my work will not be further impacted by my hobby.”

Alternate title: In Which Valjean Actually Catches A Fucking Break Oh My God Get Some Sleep You Poor Man

The next chapter will be out on 7/2

I know I said I'd post this on Sunday, but my other writing project is breaking my brain and I need to put something into the world that I actually like. I hope you enjoy!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Not even a week later, Javert returns to the Rue Plumet and offers again to keep watch for the night. A few days later, he does it again. 

There’s a part of Valjean that’s unsettled by inviting his old pursuer into his home, knowing that those watchful eyes are taking in every detail of his life, but a greater part of him is simply grateful for the opportunities to feed, for the hours of rest, and, to his own surprise, for the brief conversations with another soul who knows this little piece of what’s happened. Valjean himself can’t bring himself to speak of it directly– after so many years of choking back secrets, they are lodged permanently in his throat– but Javert seems to understand him plainly enough when he talks around it, and somehow he is able to glean meaning from his silences when Valjean struggles to find words at all. When Valjean’s thoughts wind themselves into an impossible tangle, there’s something refreshing about the way Javert cuts directly through it. That isn’t to say Valjean agrees with half the things the inspector says, no more than he did in Montreuil, but sometimes the mere act of having a firm stance to disagree with is enough to solidify his own feelings on the matter. And in truth, there is something strangely enjoyable about spending time with him.

After a decades of self-deprivation, Javert's company feels almost dangerously indulgent.

The midnight visitor still comes– Valjean can smell his presence in the morning– though they have yet to catch him directly.

“Surely you must be able to show me something,” Javert tells him after yet another missed encounter. “You would be amazed what I can do with a part of a footprint and a smudge on a windowpane.” 

When Valjean demures that he has no such evidence, he fully expects Javert’s grunt of frustration, but beyond that he merely accepts Valjean’s story at his word. 

“I won’t be stopping by here tomorrow evening,” he says instead, before he leaves one morning. “I’ll still be keeping watch, so feel free to sleep— in fact, I insist on it– but you won’t see me before dawn.” 

He won’t divulge any further details on the matter. Only: “I have a theory to test.”

That night, Javert doesn’t take up any of his usual spots for his watch. 

He’s found an elderly neighbor on the next street over who is willing to give him access to her attic in exchange for a small sum, and just before dusk he climbs from the little attic window and onto the rooftop. The streetlamps barely reach up here, and even then it is easy to remain hidden in the shadow of a gable. 

For a good while, he sees nothing of import. The Rue Plumet is a lesser-used street, and those few people who meander on the ground below soon vanish within their own houses with the nonchalance of people hurried by little more than the cold. The distance and angle make it impossible to see any face with identifying clarity, but tonight he is far less interested in the specific details than in the broader picture. The trickle of people slows to nothing at all, and the street is largely deserted. In Number 55, he can see lights traveling behind thin curtains, and he imagines what might be on the other side. Are Valjean and his daughter dining together? Perhaps they have a library– Javert can picture Valjean stretched out on a reclining chair, a book on his lap as he nods off. Would his daughter notice? (The child of a prostitute might share her mother’s negligence, but it’s hard to imagine Valjean raising a girl with so little sense of duty. He remembers clearly the way she’d inserted herself between the two of them at the market, ready to defend her father from the stranger who dared to raise his voice at him.)

Yes, he thinks with some satisfaction. There's no doubt she would spot Valjean sleeping and tend to him. Perhaps she might wake him to usher him off to bed-- or perhaps she would decide to let him rest undisturbed, and drape a blanket over him.

Javert finds the thought pleasing, despite himself.

A little while longer, a curtain ripples as it’s pulled aside, and the going woman peers out from behind it to the street below. The room behind her is entirely unlit– she never even brought a candle inside. 

Her face disappears, and she repeats the action again in another room, this one higher up and on the other side of the house. And then a third time, now in the attic window. 

He recognizes the method of a search: scanning the street from multiple angles and heights, avoiding light so her movements won’t be detected and the reflection of the candle won’t interfere with her view. 

And then she lights two candles on what must be a table a short distance from the window, because their glow is clearly visible on the other side of the curtain. One must be significantly higher than the other, because the lights stand at an angle. 

A quarter hour later, a slim figure makes his way toward the house and slips inside after producing a key from his coat. 

Javert can just barely catch the kitchen door as it opens. A flash of glossy hair catches the moonlight as Cossette steps into the night.

Javert has seen enough. He creeps back into the attic window and makes his way back onto the street, not pausing to warm his hands before he slides into a new hiding place in the shadow of the front gate of Number 55. Now that he’s listening, he can catch murmurs on the air, so soft that they're drowned out by the wind through the trees. Only murmurs, though: Valjean will be gratified to know that nothing obscene is happening here tonight.

He waits until the young lovers part, Cosette back inside and the boy slipping out the gate. He is nearly dancing in the moonlight, so caught up in himself that he doesn't see Javert creep from shadow to shadow, always keeping just out of sight.

And then, as the boy swings himself giddily around a streetlamp, Javert finally sees his face.

"You!" Javert snarls, all thoughts of stealth cast aside. The boy jolts and makes to run, but Javert has him cornered. In the tradition of police interrogators, he doesn't give the boy a chance to reply before he demands, "You owe me a pair of pistols!"

"Pistols?" The boy squints through the dark. "Inspector Javert? Is that you?" He seems marginally less inclined to bolt. "What are you doing out here at this hour?"

“You ask that when you go skulking around shadows in the dead of night like a common burglar?”

"I have business-- legitimate, lawful business, monsieur--"

"With that young lady? Yes, I saw your meeting," he adds, when the boy– Pontmercy– blanches in the moonlight. Javert bares his teeth. “Consider this a warning: trifle with her feelings at your own peril."

"I swear, I would never!" At least the boy manages to sound sincere. 

Javert scoffs. "Your midnight trysts suggest otherwise."

"I swear to you, inspector, my intentions are pure!"

Javert swings his cane, and it prods the air a mere half-inch from the boy's chin.

"Then introduce yourself to her father before he has you arrested for trespassing, for God’s sake." He brandishes the cane one last time in punctuation, but doesn't stop Pontmercy when he dislodges himself and flees into the night. “And give me back those pistols!”

He stays there for a while, listening to the boy's footsteps fade into the night with no small amount of satisfaction.

He might go home and reward himself with a pinch of snuff, but his thoughts urge him elsewhere.

It’s well past midnight, far too late to come calling on anyone, and if Valjean has an ounce of sense then he’ll be catching up on his rest. But then, Valjean has no sense whatsoever, and he’ll sleep better once he knows the matter is resolved. Besides, Javert wants to see his face when he hears that the would-be assassin prowling in the night is nothing more dangerous than a teenage girl’s beau! And so he makes his way back to the Rue Plumet and taps the head of his cane against the wall near the little hidden entrance by Valjean’s cottage in their agreed-upon signal.

Apparently Valjean wasn’t sleeping all that deeply, because it only takes a few minutes for him to open the lock and let him in– but he was sleeping, judging by his disheveled hair and half-buttoned waistcoat. On any other man it might look slovenly, but Javert can only be pleased by the evidence of Valjean’s haste to see him. 

The other man pulls the door open and ushers Javert inside, pausing only to take his hat and coat. “Has something happened?”

“Indeed it has.” Javert nearly bounces on his heels, feeling a little bit like a retriever bounding back from a lake with a waterfowl between its teeth. “I believe I have identified your visitor.”

The door shuts, but Valjean lingers there with one hand against the solid wood, bracing himself for the worst. Given what Javert knows, it seems a touch melodramatic. 

“I’ve also learned how he’s evaded us for so long,” Javert continues. “It seems your daughter has been watching us from her window, and signaled to him when it was safe to approach unseen. It was her he was coming to meet, you see.”

He expects Valjean to laugh, perhaps to roll his eyes, but instead he grows very still. Perturbed, Javert continues his report:

“It seems that this entire ordeal might have been avoided if you had simply told her of your concerns from the beginning.”

“No,” Valjean says very quietly. “I don’t think it would.”

Javert concedes: “Perhaps not, given that she’s been abetting this behavior. But still.”

“She’s hiding things from me.”

“I can’t imagine where she might have learned that,” Javert mutters, and immediately regrets it when he sees the stricken look on Valjean’s face. “I’ve met the boy,” he presses on. “He’s a student and an utter ninny, but he’s harmless enough.” 

“And he’s been coming to see her in the dead of night.” Valjean sounds absolutely grave. He shakes his head and walks away, stops short, shakes his head again and comes back. 

“They clearly haven't progressed as far as you fear,” Javert adds hastily. “I’ve broken up enough illicit meetings over the years, and this wasn’t one of them. Those sorts of lovers don’t tend to waste time prattling on garden benches in the cold.”

Considering the strangled sound that issues from Valjean, he might as well have said Pontmercy had threatened her at gunpoint. Valjean turns away from him, seems to change his mind mid-step, and asks over his shoulder, “She’s in love with him, then?” 

“Maybe? What does that have to do with anything?” He matches Valjean’s frantic strides to keep up with his pacing. “Yes, the boy is annoying and I question her taste, but she’s in no danger from him. This is normal! Children of that age fall in love– and assuming they haven’t done anything profoundly stupid along the way, which I suspect they haven’t, they get married eventually–”

"Married!"

God in heaven, how does that make things  worse? 

“Is this really a surprise to you?" Javert demands. "What, did you expect her to stay on your arm forever?” 

That was the wrong thing to say.

He knows it the instant the words leave his mouth, because that is the moment Valjean crosses the threshold from distress to outright panic.

The pacing stops short like he’s stepped into pitch, but all that nervous motion redirects into full-body tremors. He looks to Javert, his gaze ticking frantically from one eye to the other and back again, silently begging for help, for an answer, for  anything, as if Javert hasn’t made things worse with every word that came out of his mouth. 

Javert has to do something-- he doesn't trust himself to say another word, but he must do something--

So he grabs Valjean by those broad shoulders and wraps a hand around Valjean’s neck to quell his shaking and and crushes their lips together in an act of desperation that can only in hindsight be called a kiss.

Javert has never kissed anyone, never been kissed before, but he knows it isn’t meant to be like this. Valjean has gone utterly still. His eyes are wide open, still staring, but now the surging panic has been replaced for the stillness of shock. 

Shock.

But it shouldn’t have come as such a surprise. It shouldn’t. Maybe the timing was unwise, but after the kiss on his hand, the gloves, the shared meals, the– the little touches– those  meant something, didn’t they? 

Didn’t they? 

Or has he been reading this wrong from the beginning? 

Javert pulls away like he’s been burned, madly hoping that if he breaks it off quickly enough Valjean might somehow fail to notice he ever kissed him at all– but that’s impossible. 

It’s fine.  It’s fine.  It doesn’t matter. This– this case, his private investigation– can still be salvaged. 

Yes.

He’ll– regroup. Step back and come at this from a different angle. Yes. It’s fine, no matter that it feels like his ribs are cracking apart and his chest is caving in. That’s merely disappointment in time wasted on a bad strategy. He’s recovered from worse setbacks. 

That's all this is. Just a setback.

That's all.

He lowers his gaze and turns away, because that’s what a rebuffed suitor would do. 

“Apologies,” he says stiffly, because that worked last time. Valjean has always been too quick to pardon him. Javert will grovel and Valjean will forgive, and they will put this moment aside and never speak of it again, and the case will continue unimpeded and it will be fine. “That was–”

He doesn’t know what that was meant to be, because there are soft lips against his and the bristles of a beard against his cheek and powerful arms pulling him flush against that broad chest and a hand tangling in his long hair, and there isn’t room in his head for any other thought– only instinct. And it is instinct that makes him open his mouth in invitation and make a truly humiliating sound when Valjean partakes. It is instinct that has him scrabbling at Valjean’s half-open waistcoat and grinding against his hip. And when Valjean’s large hands curl underneath his thighs and haul him up with inhuman strength, it is instinct that makes Javert wrap his legs around that waist and tighten their embrace. 

The angle is all wrong now to continue as they were, but Valjean merely changes tack: his lips move to the corner of Javert's mouth, to the edge of his jaw, to the naked skin beneath his whiskers, before his progress is impeded by the stiff leather of Javert’s stock. For one wild moment Javert expects him to tear it away with his teeth as if it was so much tissue paper and bite down hard on the vulnerable flesh–

Instead the grip on his thighs loosens and he is lowered far too gently to his feet, completely ignoring the involuntary noise of protest that escapes Javert’s throat. Valjean’s hands slide to his back to steady him, not lingering for even an instant on Javert’s backside on the way up. Javert has half a mind to seize those offending hands and put them where they belong, but he suspects his knees might give out if he stops clinging to Valjean’s shirt. He’s light-headed and dizzy after what might have been too long without stopping for air; his hair has come entirely out of its queue and hangs in his face, but not enough to hide him from the other man's gaze. Valjean is infuriatingly well put-together by comparison, though that might only be because he doesn’t seem to be breathing at all. Damned vampire.

“Ah,” Valjean starts, and at least he has the decency to sound dazed. “What was I saying?” 

This would be a terrible time to remind him that the most interesting part of their conversation had involved a distinct lack of words.

“That–” Javert clears his throat, and then clears his throat again. His mouth tastes distractingly like Valjean’s tongue. “That you and your daughter are overdue for a conversation.”

“Yes.” He takes a shuddering breath. “I– I should prepare for that.” 

He clearly doesn’t want to. 

It wouldn’t be difficult at all to distract him from the task. Even less so if Javert removes his stock now, while his hands aren’t otherwise occupied. The thought brings to mind another encounter, and Valjean unknotting his cravat to reveal his throat an inch at a time. The sight of it had made Javert’s blood boil– how satisfying it would be to do the same to him. 

Another time, he tells himself. Valjean is in a fragile state already. Pushing him too hard now– even in a thoroughly enjoyable direction– might shatter this tenuous thing between them. 

"As you wish, monsieur." He bows, and his eyes never quite leave Valjean's. "I'll come again tomorrow night."

Alternate title: In Which Making Out Is Deemed A Suitable Distraction From A Panic Attack (Twice)

Content warning for violence in this chapter


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Twelve hours, Valjean thinks, is more than enough time to disappear. It won’t be long before the offices at the shipyards open; the minute they do he can walk through the door, secure passage for himself and Cossette, slip away to quench his thirst before the journey, and they’ll be gone on the tide. They can go to England, perhaps. Or Spain. Or the Americas. He can leave instructions with a solicitor to end the leases on his properties and have their belongings sent to some estate on the other side of the country, if only to lay a false trail. Javert has always been tenacious in his pursuits; God only knows how much more intent he’ll be when the matter is close to the heart. He would be hurt, there’s no avoiding that– but at least he’d be alive. That’s more than Valjean can hope for if he doesn’t put a stop to this affair. Maybe Javert will commiserate with Cossette’s suitor, once the boy realizes that he’ll never see her again.

Valjean doesn’t want to leave him– but then, he takes care not to let himself  want anything. He was broken of that in the early years at Toulon. 

Every scant luxury he’d claimed in that prison had to be defended at all times and from all directions-- until the moment when his strength failed, or his attention slipped, or his luck ran out. And then it was gone for good, and he was left nothing but exhaustion and pain and the memory of what had briefly been his.

To cast his eyes on anything desirable was to invite it to be wrested away from him. Far more often, it was destroyed outright. The only defense was to train himself not to desire anything at all. If he didn't want anything, it wouldn't attract attention-- and it wouldn't hurt when it was taken away.

In the years since his release, he’s found other forces to drive him: the animal need for survival, the debt of silver weighing on his reclaimed soul, his promise to Fantine, his duty to Cossette. But he does not want. 

He  cannot want. 

Tonight he told himself that he didn’t want to kiss Javert– that he was merely responding to the vulnerability and hurt he’d seen dawning on Javert’s face, offering succor to a wounded spirit. 

His actions after prove that for the lie it was. There wasn’t an instant of it that wasn’t carnal and forceful and coarse, and he should be ashamed of himself for that alone. And then he’d found his mouth on Javert’s throat– if he hadn’t been wearing his stock–

Valjean buries his head in his hands. 

He should be better than this. He’s spent every day for years trying to be better than this. 

It isn’t too late. No matter what he does now, Javert will be hurt, but he hasn’t yet done irreparable harm. He can put a stop to this.

He must.

And he will, he thinks as he frets himself to sleep. Only a few errands, a few hours of work, and it will all be over. 

The night replays itself in Valjean's dreams, over and over again. In one incarnation, Javert interrupts the moment to clap him in irons. In another, they never stop kissing. In another, he sinks his fangs into Javert’s bare throat and drinks his fill. In yet another, he takes him to bed and makes love to him for hours. But between the visions of horror and ecstasy, he always returns to those few seconds after Javert’s kiss and before Valjean kisses him back, when Javert’s stony countenance becomes fragile and unsure and almost afraid. 

The vision of it is still fresh in his mind when he wakes. 

“You’re still here,” Thénardier remarks from his cell when Javert arrives.

“And so are you, for a few days more.” His late-night watches at Valjean’s home have left him exhausted, and something had to fall by the wayside. Specifically, his visits to his informant, and his requisitions to delay the man’s execution. 

There is no more point in delaying the inevitable. In a few days' time, justice will be done.

“Real shame about that, isn’t it? But then, I was looking forward to you welcoming me in when I arrived in Hell– maybe you’d set it up nice for me.” 

“And why would I do that?” Javert demands.

“Because you’re just such a nice man, aren’t you, inspector? Which was why I thought it such a shame that he’d killed you. So I really am over the moon that he hasn’t yet– can’t you see how wide I’m smiling?”

“You seem to have confused our mutual acquaintance with one of your other friends. Quite a few of them are charged with murder.”

“Extenuating circumstances, inspector, all of them. Their arrest is a miscarriage of justice. As is your letting that beast go on as he is.” Thénardier tugs at his collar to show off that ragged scar again. “You know it’s just a matter of time before he does to you what he did to me. Only my money says that you won’t be as lucky about it as I was.” He smiles, vindictive and cold. Javert can hear it in his voice, even though he isn’t looking at his face. He can’t quite tear his eyes from that scar. “He’s a monster, inspector. And he’s going to kill you, if you don’t get to him first.”

He remembers the feel of Valjean’s lips on his neck. The passion with which he’d been swept into the vampire’s arms, and the gentleness with which he’d been set down again– safe and unharmed, though he’d nearly begged Valjean to keep going. He remembers Valjean drawn and weak from endless nights keeping his daughter safe, and his absurd panic at learning that she’s taken a lover. 

“He’s a criminal, and he must be brought to justice,” Javert says, as much to himself as to his prisoner. “But he’s no monster.” 

Thénardier snorts. “He might have you fooled now, inspector, but you’ll be singing a different tune once he’s got his teeth in you.”

Javert finds a grim humor in that, though not for the reasons he rightfully should. 

Afternoon comes and Valjean hears the rap of a cane against the hidden door, the timing so precise that he could probably set a watch by it.

That is, if Javert was ever going to come back here again. Which he won’t. 

Valjean has made up his mind that vanishing without a word would be both cowardly and callous, and so he will end things properly. Depending on how that conversation goes, he might still flee the country, but at least this affair will have been put to rest first. He has rehearsed his statements all morning. He’s anticipated every possible direction that their talk might take.

But then Javert follows the niceties and greetings with, “Did your conversation with your daughter go well?” 

Valjean blinks at him. He wasn’t meant to ask that.

“You haven’t spoken to her on the matter yet,” Javert deduces. 

There’s no point dissembling. “Not yet,” he admits. 

“Why not?” 

Valjean doesn’t have an answer for him. 

In truth, the mere idea of broaching the subject with Cossette has been so miserable that he’s avoided thinking of it entirely. Any time his thoughts had wandered close to the subject, he turned his attention forcefully to tonight’s confrontation instead, telling himself that this was the more urgent situation, and it would better prepare him for other unpleasant personal conversations, and that he needed to devote his whole attention to only one matter at a time. 

On that last point, Javert seems to agree. “Let me guess: you haven’t yet decided what to say to her.” 

“The matter is… complicated.”

“Is it?” Javert asks. “It seems simple enough from where I’m standing. Do you intend to forbid this young man from courting your daughter?"

Valjean winces. He would very much like to– but could he do such a thing to Cossette? How terribly would that wound her, if she truly loves the boy? Would she even abide by his wishes, when she’s been engaged in these secret meetings for weeks already? Trying to put a stop to it now might only push her away. “Is that really necessary?” 

“You intend to allow it to move forward, then,” Javert concludes, which opens up fresh avenues of horrors in Valjean’s mind.

“Is there another option?” he asks helplessly. 

"Several, as I understand it, but they all amount to one or the other." His tone is so clipped and straightforward that he might as well be presenting a police report. But all at once something changes. The shift is so slight that it might not be caught at all, but Valjean has known him for years– and he recognizes that the edges have been blunted somewhat. Coming from him, it almost sounds gentle: “You can delay your judgment until you have sufficient information: the boy's prospects, his temperament, his standing, any other noteworthy circumstances. Though all this creeping about is hardly evidence in his favor."

"How can I begrudge him that?” Valjean asks miserably. “I keep enough secrets of my own." He can feel his thoughts uncoiling from that fact, suffusing with guilt and shame and misery and–

Javert snorts. "I don't see how that's relevant. It isn't  you  he's courting."

Valjean can't help but laugh at that, momentarily unbalanced. “Fortunately for him.” 

"Indeed." Javert steps in as if he intends to tell a secret– any closer, and they might be touching. "Because then he would have me for a rival. And I don’t suffer those lightly." 

The ferocity in his glare shouldn't please Valjean the way it does. He's made up his mind to end this. It shouldn't matter that Javert is apparently prone to jealousy. 

But he can't quite stifle a smile. "The poor boy couldn't compare," he says. And he can't help kissing him again.

What happened yesterday was frantic desperation. This is something else entirely.

Javert's lips are warm against his, and they part so eagerly. He tastes of coffee and tobacco and hunger; the satisfied sound he makes is a sweetness all on its own. Valjean is reluctant to let the kiss end, until Javert pulls away to catch his breath.

"I'm distracting you, monsieur." He doesn’t sound particularly apologetic. Sweat beads on his skin, fragrant with desire; Valjean wouldn’t mind licking it off him, seeing if it tastes as fine as it smells. 

“You’re right,” he murmurs, and withdraws to press a chaste kiss to the corner of Javert's mouth. And another to his cheek. And another to the rough stubble at the edge of his jaw. 

“Monsieur.” That stern tone might be more intimidating if Javert wasn’t tipping his head to one side to offer better access to his throat. The starched fabric of his shirt collar carries the scent of sweat and leather from when it was wrapped in a stock, but otherwise his neck is bare. 

Did he take it off before coming here?


 God in heaven. 


He considers making a remark about Javert being out of uniform, but that might turn the conversation elsewhere– why he shouldn’t leave his uniform behind when not on duty, for one, or whether he might be inclined to remove the rest of it, or why the armor around his neck of all things is worthy of notice.

Better to distance himself from the temptation entirely. 

“Yes. Of course.” Valjean takes a half step back. “We were discussing the boy.” 

“The boy,” Javert agrees, though he sounds somewhat annoyed that the conversation has been put back on its rails. “I might be able to arrest him, if you’d like.”

“Arrest him?” Abruptly his mind is pulled back into the moment. “I’m not about to condemn the boy to prison–” 

“There are levels between a night in a jail cell and a lifetime in the bagne, monsieur.” He sounds stern again, nearly annoyed, but by now Valjean recognizes what’s meant to be a soothing note in his tone. “I’ve already threatened him with a trespassing charge– an idle threat only, monsieur-- I know you would not have your daughter’s involvement in all this be made public record.” 

“You confronted him?”

“Last night when I identified him. I thought I might frighten him off from his nightly visits. If he has any sense, his next meeting will be to seek your consent to continue all this. If he doesn’t, I could just as easily bring him in for petty theft.” At Valjean’s raised brow, he explains, “I loaned him a brace of pistols during– a case, and he ran off without returning them.” Something changes in his expression halfway through the sentence. Quickly he adds, “He needs only return them and the charges should be dropped, unless he was stupid enough to pawn them off in the last few weeks. But I’m sure missing a rendezvous to spend a night in a cell will lower your daughter’s opinion of him.” 

“It may,” Valjean says faintly. He has no hope that Cossette’s love will survive learning that her father is a convict. Likely her suitor would fare no better. 

“It was merely a suggestion,” Javert says. “Not our only avenue.”

“One I would prefer to avoid.” His thoughts are fraying as they hurry down that road, and so he lurches to a different direction. “The boy helped you on a case?” 

Javert scowls. “That overstates his contribution by a good deal. He was barely a lookout, and even that only by virtue of renting the room next door.” 

“Really?” He tries to sound casual, but something about Javert’s evasion has him on edge. He’s imagining things. Taking the gaps in the story and filling them with the worst possible scenarios, as his mind is wont to do. “You must tell me about it.” 

“That won’t be necessary.” Javert averts his gaze. “I’m sure you know it better than he does.” 

Valjean doesn’t breathe. “He was at Gorbeau.” 

As a lookout. In the next room. 

“Not as a member of the Patron-Minette–” Javert says, as if that matters. 

Valjean remembers how thin those walls were. How much could be heard through them. How much could be seen.

“But he was there–  watching –” 

Javert is suddenly close against him, holding tight to his upper arms, but Valjean can’t feel him. In his mind he’s back in that chair, trying to remember– the layers of bindings against him were so thick, he could barely think, barely parse the words that were spoken around him. He was so exhausted, in so much pain– but Thénardier was gloating. Called him– called him a creature. Beast. Monster.

But did he say  vampire?  Did he say  convict? 

Did he say  Valjean? 

He shudders so intensely that he thinks he might fall, but he realizes faintly that he’s already sitting down. Not in Gorbeau, not wrapped in roses and rosaries, but on his bed. A quilt has been thrown over his shoulders. 

Javert is crouching before him, kneading at Valjean’s hands, muttering: “–cold? Do you even  get cold? Damn it all, what does shock even look like for–” 

Abruptly Valjean reverses the hold, seizing Javert’s hands in his own. 

“Cossette,” he gasps. “What has he told Cossette?”

“Is that what this is about?”

“He’s been speaking to her for weeks– Javert, he was  there  and now he’s  speaking to her– ” 

“Not about that,” Javert says. “He won’t have said a word about it.” 

“You don’t know that!”

“Then tell me what you know: has your daughter ever been the type to read horror stories and penny dreadfuls?” 

Valjean stares, mouth agape, mind racing too frantically to see what that has to do with anything. 

“Does she?”

The words come haltingly. “No– never.”

“Then why would he try to charm her with lurid tales of a madman’s attempted exorcism? Nothing about what happened that night paints the boy in a flattering light. Do you really think he’ll volunteer that he stood by and watched a man be tortured?”

“But he knows it was me.”

“Why should he? They called you by the name you gave them– Monsieur Leblanc. They never called you Fauchelevant, or–” He catches himself quickly enough that it isn’t clear what other name he nearly said. When he speaks again, he chooses his words carefully: “They never called you any name that might identify you.” His hand closes tight around Valjean’s own. Clinging to him, or holding him so he can’t escape. “The boy has no reason to connect you to the man in that room.”

“He saw my face.”

"Only through a crack in a wall.”

“That’s enough.”

“He could have looked at you head on and not have recognized you. I was there, too, do you remember? I never forget a face, and I barely knew you. You looked–” He stops short, his expression pained. "Your secrets are in no danger from him."

Not from the boy, perhaps.

Javert is a danger. He has always been a danger. And Valjean, like any hunted thing, should be desperately afraid.

But tonight he is already exhausted from fear, and Javert's hands are warm on his, and his words are soothing comfort where none should exist. And so, selfishly, he allows himself to believe Javert. 

“Look at you,” Javert says, his voice softened as it filters through the weary haze. “All those nights without sleep are still catching up to you.” Valean’s head bows in surrender, and Javert catches it in his large hands and holds him steady while he kisses his brow. “Rest now. No harm will come to you tonight.”

Javert carefully folds Valjean’s waistcoat and cravat and sets them aside, then unbuttons his cuffs and collar so they won’t constrain him. His trousers he leaves on– they might be wrinkled in the morning, but they won’t be irreparably harmed by a few added creases, and he has no intention of making Valjean rise from the bed to take them off. He doesn’t instruct him to move at all, except to nestle closer to the center of the little cot before Javert drapes him in every quilt and blanket he can find. 

He isn’t sure exactly what he’s doing anymore: he’s performed preliminary care for those fellow officers who suffered mental trauma in the line of duty, but his treatment of Valjean has passed that threshold and brought him into some queer, unfamiliar territory. He’s watched over others– but as a dog guarding its flock, as a wolf surveilling its prey. Not like this. 

He puts the fire in order for the night and makes to leave, but he stops before he can reach the door. In one corner there’s a little writing desk, unlocked and well-stocked. For a moment he considers going through it, to see what other details he might glean from ruined drafts and unfinished letters. Instead he finds an unused scrap and writes a note.


 I have business tomorrow evening; it is unlikely I will be able to stop by. If you have need of me, send for me at the station. 



 Be well. 



 –J 


Valjean will worry if he doesn’t come at his usual time, and it would be imprudent to send a gamin to this address when Valjean’s nerves are already on edge. Hopefully he’ll see the note before he has the chance to fret.

He could stand to go a while without enduring another attack of nerves– which is why Javert needs to make himself scarce. It isn’t lost on him that twice in two days, he’s been the provocateur of Valjean’s distress. If there’s going to be any hope of him getting rest, there must first be some space between them.

That thought bothers Javert for reasons he can’t explain. 

A good deal about the last two days has bothered him, though it shouldn't.

By all means, he has succeeded in his aims. Valjean has stopped trying to run from him. He has given up attempting to misdirect Javert's allusions to his past. He has invited him into his lair and left him alone to search the place while he sleeps. There is still the matter of hard evidence to give to Chabouillet, but at this point it is merely a matter of time before he finds something adequate. And once he has it in hand, Valjean won't have a chance to flee– as acclimatized as he is to Javert's presence, he won't know to run until the trap is sprung. It's likely he won't even resist, if Javert can promise to keep the details from Cossette. 

He might even agree that it's just. Because it is. 

It's  just– 

He shakes himself. He's overthinking the matter. He always does this, when it comes to Jean Valjean– he overthinks and overplans and when the time comes to strike he's already worked himself up to acting rashly. Not this time. This time he will endeavor to be patient. He will play the devoted lover as long as it takes for the final pieces to fall into place.

It is not unusual for Chabouillet to call Javert into his office, but the precedent of their past several meetings has Javert’s mind on edge before he enters the room. 

And then he lays eyes on the man’s face.

“Javert.” He speaks slowly, steadily, as if he’s holding onto a rail in the midst of a storm. “Your case. The private matter. Have you taken on outside assistance with it?” 

“Monsieur instructed I not speak of that here,” Javert says stiffly. 

“I’m instructing otherwise now.” His hands close into fists on the edge of the desk, his knuckles white. “Answer the question, Javert.” 

“I have been questioning the man Jondrette– Thénardier. But I understand you were aware of that.”

“Questioning him.” Chabouillet takes a rough breath. “Have you done anything else? Delivered any messages for him? Brought him anything?”

Javert’s mind goes immediately to the gloves he’d brandished at Thénardier– but he hadn’t left those behind. “You know I wouldn’t, monsieur.” And because that isn’t a proper answer, he says, “I haven’t.”

“Is there anyone else? Did he send you to one of his associates for more information? For anything?”

“No, monsieur.” The dread building within him is impossible to ignore. “Has something happened?”

“Yes. And I need to know that you weren’t involved.” 

“Monsieur–”

His patron springs to his feet. “I need to know, Javert!”

“And I will be happy to tell you, Monsieur Chabouillet, but first I must know what it is.”

Chabouillet takes a shaking breath, then another. “He’s gone. Along with all of his accomplices. They’ve escaped.”

It’s no use sending officers to patrol the Patron-Minette’s usual haunts and past residences, but they are sent all the same. Javert diverts some of the men to keep watch over the Rue de l’Homme Arme and those streets where he knows Valjean to have given alms. He sends no one to the Rue Plumet.  If Thénardier and the Patron-Minette don’t already know the address, then a pack of baying policemen will lead them directly to his door. 

Meanwhile Javert throws himself into the depths of the investigation. The varied accomplices were held in different cells to keep them from collaborating on an escape, but the Patron-Minette often have ways out prepared. Most had kept iron nails and other such innocuous tools on their person during their arrest, and had been slowly carving away the mortar between the bricks of their cells. At least one of the prison guards is dead from poison.

And now they are running wild.

Javert works on the case late into the night, digging through every scrap of evidence that had been collected for their trials, through records and aliases and contacts, and he compiles lists of names for his men to interrogate, one after another. He adds to that list another set of names, pulled from unrelated cases: occultists and fortune tellers and sellers of esoterica. Anyone who might provide information or equipment that might aid in the hunting of a vampire. At some point he’s ejected from the station house with strict orders to go home and get some sleep. He doesn’t care when. His mind runs along parallel tracks. On one, he still works to form connections between the points of information that have etched themselves into his mind’s eye. On the other, Valjean: he must get to him, guard him, find a way to warn him about his attackers’ escape without setting off another panic. He must do it gently, carefully– perhaps with frequent interruptions to derail any rising hysteria–

He looks up from his thoughts, pleased with his plan, and a new horror dawns on him.

He’s looking at Number 55, Rue Plumet. Mindlessly, his feet followed the now well-established path from the station house to Valjean’s home. Because he has visited this house often, since the nightly visits from Pontmercy began. 

Thenardier knows this. 

And so he knows that Javert is the ideal guide to lead him straight to Valjean’s doorstep.

He doesn’t allow the realization to break his stride. Instead he keeps marching toward the Rue Plumet address– and then past it, without giving the house or its grand garden a second glance. Four intersections further, and he makes a decisive right turn. It mustn’t look random. He cannot look unsure. If he betrays anything less than absolute certainty, his tail might realize something’s amiss and retrace their steps, and Javert  will not allow that. He will not lead them to Valjean and his daughter.

A few more streets, then a left. 

Quick footsteps echo his own. His grip tightens on his cane, but he does not change his pace. 

Another right takes him along the wall of some absent aristocrat’s empty estate. If he’s quick about it, he can slip through the front gate, cut across the grounds to the next street, and disappear. 

The gate is right there, so wreathed in shadow that the spaces between the iron bars might as well be solid darkness. They’ll never see him. They’ll–

A pale hand shoots out between the bars of the gate and grabs him by the back of his coat. Before he can struggle, the hand gives a violent jerk and he falls backward. His skull strikes the iron bars with a crack like thunder that echoes down his spine. Long, thin limbs reaching through the gate to hold him in place, and for a wild moment he almost thinks he's been set upon by a giant spider.

The footsteps speed, and a slim figure leaps upon him, pinning him harder in place.

“Evening, Inspector,” Montparnasse says with a tip of his hat. “Fancy running into you out here.” 

His ears still ringing, Javert brandishes his cane, but a second hand catches his sleeve and drags it back. 

“Ah ah ah, can’t have any of that, Inspector!” He recognizes Thenardier’s oily voice and rancid breath in his ear. “You’ll spoil all our fun.” 

“He’s already tried that,” Montparnasse said. “The bastard’s been leading us in circles.”

“I told you not to let yourself get spotted, you peacock,” Thenardier snaps back. “And you, Inspector. You’ve been sleeping on the job, haven’t you?”

“You should have fled Paris when you had the chance,” Javert hisses, before a damp rag is forced over his mouth. It’s filthy, but he can still recognize the bitter-sweet tang of ether.

“Didn’t anyone tell you that it’s rude to interrupt?” Montparnasse asks. “Now shut up and stop struggling.”

“Just goes to show,” Thenardier says, though his voice seems to blur at the edges. There’s a rough tightness around Javert’s wrist. Glancing over, he realizes it’s being tied to the metal bars. “Some people have no work ethic. Just lazy, lecherous wastes of space. Which reminds me, Montparnasse, you ever thought about being a bobby? Seems like you’d fit in real nice with this useless lot.”

“Fuck you, old man.” 

Javert’s other hand is pulled hard to the other side, so far that he can feel what must be strain in his shoulder, but it seems little more than an odd pressure. And then that tightness again. He can’t move. 

He can barely breathe through the rag in his mouth, and every choked gasp is acrid with fumes.

“This one should have had a stake through the old vamp’s heart days ago, but do you know what he does instead? Comes swanning into my cell, sighing like a little girl. ‘Oh, he’s so  good  and so  generous  and so kind, surely he can’t be a monster!’ As if he knows the first damn thing about anything!” 

Montparnasse is laughing. He’s doing something else, too– cutting the buttons off Javert’s coat. They fall like little hailstones on the cracked pavement as the dandy yanks it open.

Javert’s legs are forced apart. That same distant tightness closes around one ankle, then the other.  

“Besides,” Thenardier says. “Can’t do shit against a rich man without proof, isn’t that right? And he’s too busy mooning over the old leech to get it. I’ve got your proof for you right here, inspector. I’ll give you enough proof to do you the rest of your life.” 

Now the pressure moves to his throat, and he hazily thinks Thenardier is going to strangle him.

But no. The tightness goes loose. His neck feels suddenly too cold. And then there’s a thud of hardened leather as his stock joins his buttons on the ground.

“You'll see how sweet he is when he stops playing at being a gentleman,” Thenardier hisses in his ear. Then there’s a scuffling and clanging as he pulls away to climb over the gate.

“What makes you so sure the vamp’ll even show?” Montparnasse asks.

Thenardier lands with a huff, already laughing. “You ever take a boat out and go fishing?” 

Montparnasse scowls. “Do I look like a dock worker to you?” 

“You look like you do all sorts of work at the docks– but it isn’t brine that gets you all salty and wet. Ha!” He crows triumphantly, ducking out of the way of Montparnasse’s fist. “No, you fop. Anyone that’s gone out on the water knows: if you want to catch a fish, you’ve got to use bait. And the real good ones– the ones that always catch something?" There’s a snick of drawn metal. Starlight catches on the blade of a knife. “They make sure to throw down chum.”

In his haze, it doesn’t even feel like pain. Just pressure, then peculiar heat that gathers and then drips down his skin. And again: pressure and heat. Pressure and heay. Pressure and heat. And each time, that uncanny slide of liquid down his skin.

That should bother Javert, though he doesn’t remember why. 

Thenardier keeps going, up and down and side to side, and then one last press of steel against his neck. It feels different, somehow– longer, or hotter, or maybe it drips more. Maybe it’s just because he feels so naked without his stock. 

He took off his stock before seeing Valjean yesterday. He felt naked then, too. 

“Look at these,” Montparnasse says, and Javert feels one of his gloves sliding off his hand. “Oh, these are fine stuff. I’m keeping them.”

“Don’t you dare,” Thenardier snarls. “Anyway, look at them. Your hands would slide around in gloves this big. You’d look even more ridiculous than you do.” Javert tries to make a fist, but his muscles are sluggish and weak, and the other glove is stripped away unhindered. “See? They look grand on me.”

“I saw them first!”

“Don’t act like a child, you brat.”

“A brat, am I?”

“You can stay here and throw a tantrum if you like, but a hungry vampire’s going to be here any moment. I certainly wouldn’t want to be his next course– would you?”

Montparnasse mutters a response, but it’s lost to the haze as he and Thenardier disappear into the night. 

I wound up combining two chapters for this one, because I like seeing things happen.

Thank you all so much for your wonderful comments, they mean the world to me.

Next chapter will be up on Sunday!

I'm posting this a few hours early; I figure you wouldn't hold it against me too badly


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Valjean traces his fingertips over the precise handwriting of the note. 


 I have business tomorrow evening; it is unlikely I will be able to stop by. If you have need of me, send for me at the station. 



 Be well. 



 – J 


He knows Javert to be a man of consistency– if he said he wasn’t coming tonight, then he won’t be here. Still, Valjean keeps one ear attuned for the rapping of a cane against his wall, just in case Javert changes his mind. 

He hopes Javert will change his mind.

He wants–

He pulls that thought up before it can take root. 

He does not want. He  cannot want. 

He will be satisfied with whatever blessings God chooses to give him, and he will ask for no more than that. 

Javert has not come, as he said he wouldn’t. Likely by now he’s asleep in his bed, recovering his strength from the too many nights spent volunteering to assist Valjean. It’s a well-earned rest, and he is right to take it. 

God willing, Valjean should take advantage of this time he has, as well. The emotional turmoil of the past few days has left its mark on him, and he’s hungrier than he ought to be. Cossette is safe; her paramour is either frightened off by Javert’s threats, or else he’s determined enough to risk his freedom by coming to see her anyway. 

It is well.

And so he dons the yellow coat that Cossette likes to tease him about and sets off into the night.

It’s a lovely evening; a few scattered clouds drift across the moon, but the stars are bright and clear, and the wind carries the scent of spring blooms from the neighboring gardens to overlay the multitude smells of city life. 

One scent in particular lingers around him, soaked into the hem of his collar. On so many nights Javert has borrowed this coat while keeping watch outside, and his presence lingers in its fibers: the coffee he drinks at the station house, the oil he uses in his hair and whiskers, the warm notes of human sweat. 

Cossette is always telling him that it is no sin to enjoy what he’s been given, and so he tucks his face against the collar of the coat and indulges in that little pleasure. 

Without the pall of terror, he might have enjoyed last night, as well. He’s spent so many years shrugging off any need or weakness; the only tender touch he’d allowed was from his daughter, because he told himself she needed it more than he did. He didn’t have the chance to make such excuses for Javert. And yet there he was all the same, taking his hands and kissing his brow and tucking him into bed with unimaginable gentleness.

The wind shifts, and a new gradient of odors washes over him. Daffodils and crocuses, but also horses and humans and chimney smoke– and blood.

It isn't unusual to smell blood in a city the size of Paris. There isn't a night that goes by when someone isn't bleeding, by accident or mischief or nature. 

But it isn't usually so strong. 

Or so close.

Or so familiar.

Abruptly he turns toward the wind and chases after the scent. Whoever it is– for it is human– is in dire need of help.

Whoever it is.

It could be anyone. Valjean is only reminded of Javert because he was already thinking of him– because he's already got the smell of him lingering on the coat– because this other poor soul eats a similar diet, or works alongside him with the police, and so only smells similar to Javert.

It isn't Javert, because Javert is safely asleep in his own bed.

Valjean is running now, discretion be damned. The stench of blood is so thick and plentiful that he might as well be nearing an abattoir,  but he's racing alongside a garden wall, and–

And then he sees him.

The body is fixed to the bars of an iron gate in a grotesque parody of crucifixion. He's held in place by thick ropes; otherwise it slumps forward, his head lolling. His clothes have been shredded and soaked terrible red; his bare skin is scored with dozens of shallow cuts.

Valjean doesn't even realize he's let out a cry until he sees Javert wince at the noise. It's merely a twitch at first. His eyes drag open and he stares, uncomprehending, at Valjean. His jaw works around a rag that's been stuffed in his mouth– soaked in ether, Valjean realizes with horror when he eases the gag from between Javert's teeth.

"Monsieur," Javert rasps, barely more than a sigh.

"It's alright, Javert," Valjean says as he cradles his head in his hands. "I've got you. You're going to be–"

He doesn't cry out when he sees the wound, but it's a near thing.

A long, cruel incision is carved across Javert's throat. It looked like it poured blood before; now the gush has slowed to a trickle, if only because there is nothing in him left to bleed. Javert looks like he can't afford to lose another drop.

He might already have lost too much.

There is no time.

"Forgive me, Javert," Valjean begs, and then he descends.

He drags his tongue across the wound. Once– Javert's blood is hot and sweet– twice– the blood begins to clot– thrice– and he can feel the strange heat as the slow healing begins.

He crouches lower, then falls to his knees to reach the rest. When the bleeding has stopped he cuts loose Javert's wrists, then braces the other man over his shoulder as he works to free his ankles.

There is a grim ritual to the work. In Toulon he had often been tasked with untying fellow prisoners from the rack and carrying them to the infirmary. After his transformation he had volunteered for the task even more often.

It had been easy, then, to find a secluded corner along the way to lap fresh blood from the lash marks, and the sources of his meals were already too delirious with pain to notice. If any of them did, they never said anything– but it became common knowledge that those men who were placed into Valjean's care healed more quickly, that their scars were less pronounced, that their infections were less severe. 

God willing, he can do the same for Javert.

Javert dreams of the hunter turning prey. He dreams of myriad grasping hands reaching out from cell bars and sewer grates to drag him under. He dreams of being cut open and stuffed with sawdust to be hung on the wall like a trophy. And then he dreams of a soft voice and gentle hands and a velvet tongue, and thinks that this might not be a terrible way to die.

He wakes in bed– not his own. Softer than what he is accustomed to, with heavy blankets draped over his lower body as if he might float away otherwise. His chest, in contrast, is unusually cold. His head is throbbing; his mouth is dry and blistered and coated with the remnants of something foul; his whole body aches, but his chest and shoulders most of all.

At least the smell isn't objectionable, he decides, and burrows deeper into the linens.

Valjean doesn't trust himself to move until Javert's breathing settles into the shallow rhythm of sleep.

He can only imagine the horror of waking to find another man crouched over him this way, face smeared with his blood like a hungry beast. And how much worse, when the man is one he thought of as a friend!

He draws back, torn. The wounds are more shallow than they were before-- surely with a few more passes he could do more to help them heal-- but he doesn't know for sure, he's never had need to test it this way before now-- but surely it couldn't hurt to try, and wouldn't it be a sin to let it go to waste?

He shuts down that thought with cold finality.

Javert is not a resource to be used up and thrown away. He is not a meal, no matter how the smell of him now whispers otherwise.

There was a time when he was ready to starve rather than give in to his base cravings. Has his will really eroded so much?

Is Javert safe with him at all?

He forces himself to stand and walk away. When he returns, it is with a clean face and a basin of warm water. The healing has already begun. For the rest, an ordinary washcloth will suffice.

When Javert drifts back into consciousness, it’s with the awareness that he isn’t alone. There aren’t any sounds of breathing, no rustle of clothes as weight is shifted, just a presence keeping watch over him. It’s enough for him to make the effort of opening his eyes, and he is rewarded with the sight of Jean Valjean in the chair beside him. 

The wall behind Valjean’s snowy head is also familiar– it’s the little garden cottage at the Rue Plumet. This is his house. His bed.

“You’re awake,” Valjean says softly.

Javert grunts in affirmation, but his dry mouth and heavy tongue won’t allow him to speak. As if reading his mind, Valjean leans in.

“May I?” he asks. It seems like an odd question to ask at this point in their relationship, but Javert manages half a nod. He wouldn’t mind a kiss right now, as tired as he is.

Instead Valjean’s powerful arm coils around his shoulders, supporting Javert’s neck in the crook of his elbow, and eases him into a more upright position. With his free hand he takes a mug of warm broth from the bedside table and raises it to Javert’s mouth, tipping it just enough for it to lap against his lips. Javert drinks eagerly, though the salt and heat of it stings against the sores in his mouth.

 Chemical burns, he remembers, as the blandness flushes away the bitter remnants of ether. 

His face must make some signal, because no sooner does he think that he’s had enough than Valjean takes the mug away and lays him down again, then blots the excess drops of broth from his chin with a handkerchief. 


 He’s a surprisingly skilled nursemaid– 


 No, not surprisingly.  Javert catches a scrap of memory from another time, of Monsieur le maire spending every spare moment at another bedside, tending a fallen woman in her last weeks of life. 

The thought rattles unpleasantly between his ribs. 

“Am–” The word catches on his throat, and he nearly coughs up the drink. When he tries again, he can barely croak. “Am I dying, then?”

“No,” Valjean says, and his gentle tone rides on an undercurrent of force, as if he will not allow it. That is a strangely pleasant thought. “You have been badly wounded, but the worst is past. God in his mercy will see you make a full recovery.” 

Javert suspects that the recovery will have less to do with God than with Jean Valjean. But–

“The worst,” he repeats dully, and he brings a hand to brush his aching ribs. He can feel the wounds there, but they don’t feel right, somehow. With difficulty, he props himself up to look down at himself, and finds Valjean’s hand between his shoulder blades to hold him steady. The stripes of knife wounds that cover his bare chest are substantially healed. His thoughts jangle against each other. “I must get to the station. My work–”

“I have already sent a message to your superiors telling them that you’ve been injured. Monsieur Chabouillet instructs that you aren’t to come in until you are recovered.” 

“I have a case.” 

“Your compatriots will make do in your absence. For now, you must rest.” 

He is pressed gently back into the bed. Javert doesn’t have the strength to resist him. 

Within moments he is asleep.

When next he wakes, Valjean is there to help him sit up. This time he can stay upright under his own power, and even hold the cup of broth in his own hands, though Valjean looks ready to catch it at a moment’s notice. 

“Your wounds were largely superficial,” Valjean explains. “And there’s not yet any sign of infection. Your strength should return to you completely, once your body has regained what it’s lost.”

Strange that that hasn’t happened already, with his erstwhile nursemaid’s constant attention.

“I should return to the station,” Javert says, and then cuts off Valjean’s protest: “Only to leave instructions for how my men are to continue. I want this case handled properly.”

“I have faith in their competence, Javert.”

“Then clearly you have not met many of them,” he says dryly. 

“I’m sure they can manage without you a little while longer. Wait until you can stand, at least.”

“How fortunate that I can.” He isn’t quite as confident in that fact as he sounds. Exhaustion still weighs heavy on him– but he’s found that his body’s needs are a poor match for sheer stubbornness. 

But when he makes to climb out of the bed, he finds some other obstacles. 

“My clothes are gone,” he observes.

“Ah. Yes.” Valjean turns away to the little dresser in the corner, but not before Javert catches a slight flush rising under his beard. “I’m afraid they were beyond saving. I’ve already sent for replacements, but you’re free to wear these until they arrive.” A set of breeches and simple shirtsleeves are set down beside Javert’s lap. “I’m told your new uniform will be ready for you by the end of the week. 

Javert hopes the bloodlessness might hide a furious blush of his own. He knows without asking that Valjean would have insisted on doing the drudge work of undressing and cleaning him– which means that Valjean saw him completely nude. He’s utterly mortified to have been caught in that state. 

But then he remembers the dream of a laving tongue on his skin, and a part of him feels cheated that he wasn’t awake to experience it properly. 

He changes the subject instead. “That uniform should take a few days at most to alter to my dimensions. The tailor is dragging his feet because he thinks you don’t know better.”

“Yes,” Valjean says, bemused. “And a few days would bring us to the end of the week.”

That can’t be right. “What day is it?”

“Wednesday,” Valjean says. And then, “The sixteenth of April.”

No. That absolutely cannot be right. Because he remembers dating his paperwork before he left the station. “But I was–” He trips over the words. “It happened on the night of the fourteenth.” 

“Yes.”

“But that can’t be right.” Confusion and frustration are loosening his tongue. He gestures wildly at the wounds on his chest. “These can’t be less than a week old!”

“And yet, they are.” Valjean’s expression freezes in a look of careful neutrality. 

Javert jabs a finger at him. “You did this, didn’t you?” 

Valjean’s countenance shutters completely. Javert recognizes that look in him now– not outright terror, not yet, but the stillness of a beast spotted by the hunter, in those last moments when it’s still deciding which direction to run. Javert’s accusation was carelessly vague, he realizes. He might have been referring to the advanced healing, or to the attack itself, or to something else entirely.

“Not that,” he snaps, now more frustrated with himself than the rest of it put together. “These wounds were obviously made by a knife. You use your teeth.” 

“You’re aware of that.” Valjean’s tone is guarded. His expression does not change. 

“I don’t understand your preference. A knife would be cleaner.” 

Valjean measures his words with care. “The wounds heal more easily when I use my teeth. And there is more precision– less chance of a blade slipping to cut too deep.”

“It’s your saliva that does it, then,” Javert says. When Valjean’s eyes narrow by the slightest fraction, he explains: “At Gorbeau, I had injured both my hands. The one you kissed healed faster. Not by this degree, but–” But that was only a single application. He suspects these more recent injuries received more meticulous attention.

“So you’ve known from the beginning, then.” 

The truth is no: not from the beginning. He didn’t know in Toulon, or in Montreuil. But he doesn’t dare say that. There’s no telling what Valjean might do if he addresses the past so directly. So instead he says, grudgingly, “Your attacker was very specific in his accusations.”

Valjean takes half a breath as if to speak, then seems to change his mind. When he decides to try again, it is merely to say, “I should let you get dressed. There’s broth and bread by the fire, should you need it.”  

Before Javert can protest, he is gone.

The conversation took more out of Javert than he realized. It is only by a sheer force of will that he is able to crawl into the clothes Valjean offered him, and even then only after a long rest to recover himself. There’s a dread building in his chest, and it spurs him on. He can’t stay here. He takes his fill of bread and broth to rally his strength, and then begins the slow, arduous process of crossing the garden to the main house. He finds himself spitefully grateful for the grotesque statuary and overgrown trees– they give him plenty to lean against to catch his breath, though he still has to slide into a bench underneath the window when the world starts to spin around him.

It occurs to him, as he wheezes for breath on that cold bench, that he ought to fear for his life. Valjean was clearly distressed to learn what Javert knew. It isn’t unusual for a convict to kill inconvenient witnesses to protect their secrets. And in Javert’s condition, it would be simple enough to say he’d merely succumbed to his wounds. 

Javert’s unease is oppressive, but somehow that isn’t what he’s afraid of. 

He can’t name just  what it is he’s dreading– not until he hears the girl’s voice filtering through the window above him.

“Papa, I don’t understand. Why are we going to England?” 

When he answers her, Valjean’s tone is beseeching: “I told you when you left the convent that I wanted you to see more of the world. There is so much more for you out there than this one city.” 

“But why now?” Cossette’s voice softens, until it barely reaches Javert’s ears. “Is this because of what happened to your friend the inspector?” 

There’s a long, painful pause before Valjean musters a reply. “It’s a miracle that he survived, Cossette.” The words are rough, like they have to be dragged from him by force. “This isn’t the first attack of its kind that’s come to my attention. Paris isn’t as safe as it once was.” 

“But it’s no more dangerous than it was yesterday, or a week ago. If we must leave, at least let us have some time to prepare. It doesn’t have to be tomorrow!” 

Javert staggers back, groping for the bench, but the garden has started to shift and spin around him.


 Tomorrow. 


He doesn’t hear the rest of it, too caught up in his own racing thoughts. Valjean is leaving Paris– is leaving France entirely– he’s  leaving –

Javert never should have said anything about the vampirism– he should have pretended ignorance– he should have controlled himself, should have had some self-restraint, should have known better, should have  been  better, but he gave in to his worst impulses and and now Valjean is going to ground and everything Javert has worked toward will be–

Gone. Valjean will be gone. 

And once he leaves, Javert won’t ever be able to find him.

He’ll never see him again.

It’s the last thought he has before the ground rushes up to meet him.

I'll see you again on the 16th!

Also, next week our rating will bump up some. Plan accordingly~

I finished writing my current book at 2 AM, so I decided to reward myself by posting this chapter a day early.

Note: here’s where we earn our Explicit rating. If that’s not your jam, go ahead and skip everything between “That he hasn’t yet is an excellent sign.” and "Things are hazy after that."Also, we've got some blood-loss related erectile dysfunction in this chapter, for what I'm hoping are obvious reasons.

Valjean sends Cossette to help Touissant finish packing their most important belongings, then goes to the garden to do the same. Javert will have to be taken elsewhere– a hospital would be best, though likely he’ll insist on returning to his home. Valjean would prefer it if he had someone nearby to make sure Javert ate and slept as he should– he ought to do that himself–

He shakes his head to remind himself that he knows better. He can pay Javert’s portress to see to it. Valjean can’t stay.

He can't–

He knows this.

He’s always known, ever since Toulon. 

Once his strength had been revealed in the bagne, he became a target. Every new prisoner wanted to prove himself by besting him: an endless torrent of attackers. Their victories were always short lived. Rarely a month went by before yet another new king of their little corner of hell was dethroned– but no matter who ruled the prison, no matter their futile politics, Valjean remained the strongest man at Toulon, and so it always came back to him. 

When brute force failed them, they used trickery, numbers, surprise. When they couldn’t leave him bleeding on the floor, they made trophies of what was his. And when he had nothing left to take, they watched to see which way he turned his eyes. Simply  wanting  a thing was enough to put it in their sights. 

He took a companion only once in those nineteen years, before he knew better. That lesson was swift, and it was brutal, and it was never forgotten– or so he had thought. 

Because he’s let himself forget– he’s willfully ignored the lessons of the past– he let it continue when he  knew –

And his arrogance has nearly murdered Javert. 

The thought has barely crossed his mind when he sees a figure collapsed on the overgrown grass by the stone bench. He can scent Javert– his distress hangs heavy in the air– but any outside observer might see a man with Valjean’s dimensions, in his home, wearing his clothes– 


 They’ve killed him. 



 You've killed him. 


He’s upon Javert in an instant, turns him over, searches his death-pale skin for marks of a blow, of a garrotte, of anything–

No. No, his heart is still beating. Faint and slow, but there. Alive. He’s alive.

There’s fresh blood on his sleeve, but it wells from a shallow wound– from the look of it his arm scraped against the stone bench, enough to abrade the skin without quite breaking the fabric. There are no signs of a struggle– if anything, it looks like he merely fell. 

Merely! As if humans don’t perish from a simple fall every day!

He clutches Javert tight against his chest, as if he could shield him from the bench, from the ground, from the vicious people in the world, and he can’t, he knows it, but he can at  least hear the slow beat of his pulse and feel the warmth of his living body.

There’s a shift. A groan. And then, “Monsieur,” is breathed into his collar, and Valjean nearly sobs.

“Let’s get you back inside, Javert.” It takes significant effort to keep his voice steady. Less, to gather Javert into his arms and carry him away from the offending bench. 

“I– seem to have overexerted myself,” Javert mumbles. “An annoyance, nothing more.” 

Valjean hums in assent. He does not point out that it could have been far more than that, had Javert fallen badly. A few inches in the wrong direction, and he might have struck his head against the stone–

He shudders, but forces a gentle smile. “I’m sure it’s nothing that food and rest won’t cure.”

“Quite.” 

If perhaps Valjean holds Javert a bit too tightly as he tends to him, Javert doesn’t remark upon it. He’s oddly pliable, in fact, until Valjean lays him back on his bed.

“Rest now,” Valjean says, and he finds Javert’s hand clamped around his wrist. In this state his grip isn’t strong, but his determination is obvious.

“Will you run off again?” Javert demands with all the severity he can muster.

“I haven’t run off anywhere,” Valjean says, though he knows it to be a lie. “I simply have matters to attend to.”

“Then I will go with you.” 

"Javert, you need to rest."

Javert makes no move to let go. "If you go, I will follow you."

"Javert–"

"I warn you, I’m tenacious."

Yes, he's made that very clear.

"You’re hurt," Valjean tries, and Javert merely bares his teeth in a grin.

"Then it’s in my best interest that you not go far, isn’t it?"

Valjean squeezes his eyes shut and prays briefly for serenity. While he waits for it to be granted him, he sits himself down on the side of the bed near Javert's shoulder. "Does that satisfy you?"

Rather than answer directly, Javert curls against Valjean's thigh and nestles his head on the conquered lap.

Valjean hesitates. He doesn’t know what to do with this. Rightfully, he should be agitated, but instead he finds himself grateful that Javert has strength enough to make a nuisance of himself. He allows himself to rest a hand in Javert's hair, and he's caught off guard at the little pleased sound that comes as a reply. It's a lovely half-hum– a year ago, he wouldn't have thought Javert capable of such a gentle noise. 

He smooths Javert's hair, and he's rewarded with another satisfied sigh, and so he does it again, and again. Would a more lucid Javert object to being petted this way, like some kind of lapdog? Would he grumble and fuss?

The thought brings a timid smile to Valjean's lips. 

He could stop this. With patience and effort, he could ease Javert’s cheek off his thigh and settle him on a pillow– but Valjean can’t make himself do it. Not when Javert seems so at peace.

Javert wakes slowly, drifting toward consciousness for some uncountable time before surfacing into awareness. The bed beneath him is pleasantly firm, with just enough give to be comfortable; the thigh acting as his pillow is similar.

That thought sends a spike of adrenaline through him. Valjean is here, but only because Javert wouldn't let him go.

The sun seeping in from behind the curtains has the intensity of mid-evening, but it’s still day. Valjean leaves tomorrow. Javert has a handful of hours, if that, to convince him to stay.

The hand petting his hair goes still.

“How do you feel?” 

Javert hesitates. If there is a correct answer, he doesn't know it, so he settles on the truth: “Improved.”

“I’m glad,” Valjean says. And damn him, he sounds like he means it. “If you’re feeling up to it, I can call a fiacre to take you back to your flat. I’m sure you’ll sleep better in your own home.”

“You woudln’t say that if you’d ever slept in my bed,” Javert mutters, and is savagely pleased at the first bloom of a blush over Valjean's snowy beard. Slowly he pushes himself to sit upright. “You mean to have me gone before you leave France.”

Valjean looks mildly surprised at that, and almost remorseful. “Is there anything about me you don’t know?”

“I’m observant.” And decidedly, not to give him the opportunity to change the subject: “And you’re leaving.” 

“I must. Cossette isn’t safe here. And while I’m in the city, neither are you. I think the other night has demonstrated that clearly.” He looks away. “I… regret that.”

"That you rescued me?" 

Valjean sighs. "That you were in that situation at all." He touches Javert's cheek, then his fingertips drift lower, ghosting over the half-healed knife wound across his neck.

Defiantly, Javert catches his hand and presses it there. "This wasn't your doing. 

"But I was the target. They put you in my path, left you helpless, and attempted to make you… appetizing." He lowers his eyes and attempts to withdraw his hand, but Javert won't let him go.

He has been an inspector long enough to know the multitudinous varieties of guilt and shame. The look on Valjean's face is one of temptation that came too close, of discipline tested and found wanting.

Javert can work with that.

He shuts his eyes. Breathes. Opens them again. 

"…was I?" he asks. "Appetizing?"

Valjean looks away. "Blood is not a temptation to me. Not in the way they hope."

In another way, then.

"You drank from me," Javert presses, leaning in. "Tell me, how do I taste?"

Still Valjean won't meet his eyes."It was necessary for healing you."

"But you would do it again, if you had the opportunity?"

"I would not harm you." He attempts to rise, but Javert is leaning in too closely and bracing one arm on the other side of his thigh. Their only point of contact is Valjean's captured hand, but he is effectively pinned. 

Javert lowers his voice. "And if I offered?"

The shiver that goes through Valjean is highly promising.

"You’ve lost enough blood already," he says weakly.

"I’m not saying this minute– don’t be a ninny. At some other time. If I offered then."

Valjean swallows. "I can get by with my sources. You owe no debt to me."

"Must I have a debt to want your mouth on me? Or to want mine on you?"

Valjean’s gaze falls on Javert’s mouth as if it’s been summoned there. After that, how could Javert not kiss him? How could he not grip Valjean by the shoulders and bear down on him until the other man is pinned flat to the bed— when Valjean allows himself to be pressed against the mattress? Even without the vampirism, even without Javert weakened as he is, Valjean has always been the stronger man by far. If he wanted, he could throw Javert off him without a second thought. That he hasn’t yet is an excellent sign.

But Javert wants more than that.

“Tell me to stop,” he whispers into Valjean’s mouth. His hands are moving of their own accord, unknotting the cravat with ravenous haste, unfastening buttons as if they’ve personally offended him. His fingertips slip past the parted fabric and dance over cool skin and snowy hair, and he wants to touch every inch of it. 

“Javert,” Valjean gasps, and those roving fingers go still, waiting for the next word. It doesn’t come. 

Javert pulls back a hair’s breadth, just enough to look Valjean in the eyes– and those eyes are wide and dark with need. 

“Tell me you don’t want this,” he orders, and waits another beat for Valjean to answer. 

For once, Valjean doesn’t attempt the lie. 

Javert draws back to kiss him again, lower this time– that tender, unguarded skin of his throat, where it’s ordinarily hidden by his beard. Lower still, where his Adam’s apple bobs as he gasps. Even lower, where tendons meet an elegant collarbone, where powerful shoulders meet his neck. In a moment of wild impulse, he catches the skin there between his teeth and bites. 

“Javert–” The hand still at his throat clenches. The hips beneath him jolt, involuntarily, and Javert can’t help but reach down to touch the hardness there.

“Do you see how pleasurable it is?” he whispers against the imprint of his own teeth. “Can you blame me for craving it?” His tongue flits out to soothe the mark, and Valjean hardens further. “Can you blame me for craving you?” 

Sweet Jesus, he can feel the groan resonating in Valjean’s chest. He mouths at it, dragging his lips over pectorals that would make a sculptor weep. Here he finds a bud of flesh that he’s never given real consideration– and isn’t that negligence of the highest order? Correcting his error with all due haste, he draws the delicate nipple between his lips, teases it with his teeth, sucks– and is granted the indulgence of a sweet whimper from Valjean. He pays the same attention to the other nipple, of course– one must be thorough if a thing is to be done right. 

Valjean bucks beneath him again. Javert wants little more than to meet that erection with his own, but he’s confounded to find that he  can’t. He’s more aroused than he’s ever been, and he wants to show him,  needs  to show him, but somehow he still isn’t hard. How is it that after all these years of being at odds with his member, of cursing the damn thing for demanding attention in the most inappropriate circumstances, it chooses  now to feel shy? 

In any other situation he might take a moment to sort himself out, but he doesn’t have time for that right now. Valjean is leaving tomorrow if Javert can’t convince him to stay, and that can’t happen, it  won’t happen, and Javert won’t allow his stubborn prick to be the cause. 

He draws himself further down Valjean’s body, and his mouth lavishes attention on every inch of bare skin as his hands fumble to expose another. Beneath the luxurious softness of age there are ridges of muscle hard enough to make his mouth water. Javert moans, wanton, and nuzzles his entire face against that glorious belly. He has Valjean’s leg trapped between his thighs, and he grinds against that, too– his prick may be soft, but the pressure and proximity is no less exciting for it. Valjean’s trousers are straining to the point that it’s difficult to slip the buttons through their enclosures, but Javert is nothing if not stubborn, and in short order he triumphs over the other man’s fall front and pulls it out of the way, and then does the same to his drawers.

In other circumstances, Javert might be annoyed to discover that Valjean’s member is utterly perfect. He has never allowed himself to look long enough to form an opinion of other men’s more coarse equipment, if only to avoid unnecessary distractions from work, but retroactively he decides that they would never compare. 

Perhaps he stares in awe for a little too long, because Valjean starts to sit up. 

“Javert,” he says, and his voice is thick and raw. “You don’t have to–”

Javert looks up sharply. “Do you want me to stop?”

Valjean flushes. His throat bobs. “This isn’t necessary.”

“On the contrary, it is.” Javert drags his fingertips along the velvety length of it. It hardens further, rising into his touch. “Because if I don't have you in my mouth in the next minute, I might go mad.” 

He descends, his gaze locked with Valjean's, as he wraps his lips around that magnificent cock. He can't take it any further into himself, not without concerted effort and concentration, and that would force him to look away from Valjean's wide, dark eyes.

Valjean shivers, and Javert can feel the movement beneath him, against his tongue. He can't help but moan, and Valjean echoes the sound with a strangled cry.

Javert pulls back just enough to wrap his hand around the shaft-- he will not allow a single inch to be neglected while he explores the head with his tongue, traces its circumference, laps at the bead of salt emerging from its slit.

Valjean's abdomen vibrates with tension as he holds himself otherwise perfectly still. Had he any less self-possession, he might be writhing beneath him.

Javert wants to see him lose that careful control. What would it take to make him wild with desire? What could he do to make him scream?

The thought alone is enough to make his eyes roll back, and he groans, long and loud.

“Javert--!" Valjean's hands hover just over Javert’s brow like he’s afraid to touch. “Javert, please, I’m going to–” 

In answer Javert sucks with renewed fervor.

Valjean gives a cry as he spends into Javert’s mouth.

Despite the warning, despite what he thought was mental preparation, he finds himself nearly choking on the bitter-salt seed that floods his mouth. He must pull back, and the last of it splashes across his cheeks. He bows over Valjean’s softening prick while he sorts himself out: swallowing, then swallowing again, and again until he trusts his throat to do as it’s told. 

A gentle hand cradles his jaw, and he finds himself looking up. Valjean is still half-reclined on the bed, propped up on one elbow while he touches Javert’s face. His expression of wonder looks almost holy. Someone ought to immortalize it in stained glass, hang it in the windows of Notre Dame, so all of Paris could see him this way.

But for now that look is fleeting and human, and it is directed solely at him, Javert, with his tangled hair and his borrowed clothes and dripping spend.

Valjean's clothes. Valjean's spend, on his face and in his mouth. Valjean's taste on his tongue. Valjean's.

His.

And Javert comes undone.

His back arches, his hips buck, and he grinds one last time against the hard planes of Valjean’s shin. A wonderful shudder rattles through him, and he, too, spends himself.

Things are hazy after that. What little energy had been restored by rest and food has all been used up with this endeavor. Vaguely he is aware of Valjean’s arms wrapping around him and pulling him to lay more comfortably in the bed. There is a washcloth, warm and damp, cleaning the mess off his face and from between his thighs, though he isn’t aware of what happened to his trousers before then. A gentle hand smooths his hair, and with a great force of effort, Javert covers that hand with his own.

“Stay,” he murmurs. 

Valjean goes still. “You know I can’t.”

“Please.” 

“It isn’t safe.” 

“So you’ve said.” He turns his head to press a kiss to Valjean’s palm. “Then take me with you.” 

“Javert.” The bed dips as Valjean sits beside him. “I would never take you from your work. You would be miserable if you went with me.” 

“Your daughter would be unhappy, too, if you left.” 

“She will move past it in time.” Valjean leans in and kisses his brow. “As will you.” 

No. No, no, no.

“And if they were gone? Thenardier and– and–” The room is spinning. He’s drawing on reserves he does not have, but he can’t let exhaustion pull him under. Not yet. “They will follow you, if you go. You will never be–  she will never be safe, so long as they’re free. Let me catch them for you. Let me put them behind bars where they belong– with– with competent guards this time.” Darkness is spotting at the edges of his vision. “If I make it safe for you here, will you stay?”

“Javert.” His voice seems to come from far away. His face is blurring.

“Please? Monsieur-- please?"

Javert clings to that hand until the last of his strength leaves him.

Since it's my birthday next week, I'm posting today's chapter early and an extra one on the day of. Enjoy!

Javert wakes in a clean nightshirt, with a warm quilt tucked to his chin, in Valjean's bed. His body is washed. His hair is combed.

He is alone.

There are no sounds from elsewhere in the cottage. No voices filtering in from outside. No sign at all that there is another soul at Number 55, Rue Plumet.

He ought to look more thoroughly. He ought to return to his flat. He ought to get dressed in his own clothes. He ought to get up.

He ought to get up, but he can't. His limbs feel like they've been poured from lead. It would take ten men to move him now– ten men, or Jean Valjean.

But Valjean isn't here anymore. He's gone. He's gone, and he's not coming back.

Javert failed.

There is a reasonable part of himself that pushes back. With the investigation officially ended, what more could be have hoped for than to drive Valjean into exile? Gone from France forever– that is justice, isn't it? And criminals have eluded him before– even Valjean himself, all these years.

So what does it matter now?

Why should he care?

Why should this loss be any different?

There is another, far less stern voice that whispers, perhaps it’s better this way. The laws of France extend only as far as her borders. If Valjean flees beyond, then Javert has no grounds to continue chasing him. Javert will have done his duty to the fullest extent of the law, and Valjean will be spared the torment of recapture. As resolutions go, it is nearly ideal. 

The arguments are perfectly reasoned, but they do nothing but plunge him deeper into despair.

He curls against the pillow, squeezing it tightly as if he can force the man to materialize from the down.

He's being over-dramatic, complains the reasonable part of himself. It isn't as though Valjean will be summoned back here if Javert merely wishes hard enough!

There is a rap on the door.

Javert sits up so quickly that the world goes temporarily gray. 

"Are you awake, inspector?" Inquires a young woman– a girl– Cosette! 

Then he is still here– Valjean would never leave her behind!

“I–” Javert clears his throat. “I am.”

“Wonderful!” The girl enters, carrying a tray nearly overflowing with food. Her smile is so wide it threatens to escape the bounds of her face. “I know father has insisted on more simple fare for you, but I’m sure you know how he tends to be over-careful. I thought something more substantial might do you good.” 

She sets it on the bedside table, and he is struck by the aroma of eggs and bacon and sausage, alongside jam and bread so fresh that steam is still rising from the crust. He hadn’t felt it through the murk of his despair, but the sight of a proper meal (and the sight of Cosette, still here!) reminds him that he’s famished.

“Ah. Thank you, mademoiselle.”

“It’s I who should be thanking you!” She laughs like a songbird. “I don’t know what you said to my father, but you’ve convinced him. He’s letting us stay in Paris.”


Stay.


Relief feels like breaking through the surface after coming up from deep water.

“You’re staying,” he repeats breathlessly.

Cosette makes a giddy little motion, as if she would very much like to throw her arms around him, but manages at the last moment to restrain herself. “Yes.”

Her happiness is so intense that she is nearly painful to look at. 

How can Valjean survive being near her, when she is sunshine incarnate? 

Javert clears his throat again. “Where is your father now?”

“Speaking to Marius!” After a moment of pure glee, she lowers her voice conspiratorially. “I believe the two of you have already been introduced.”

“Ah. Yes.” 

“You gave him quite a fright, you know. I should be very cross with you, jumping at him out of the shadows the way you did.” Her tone is stern, but she can’t hide the smile from her face.

Javert looks away. “Your father thought he was a burglar.’

“Yes. Well. I didn’t think he would ever approve– he is so wary of strangers.” Her expression brightens, and it is like the sun has come out from behind a cloud. “I understand I have you to thank for that as well.” She reaches out and presses his hand. “Thank you, inspector. I’m so grateful that Papa has you for a friend.”

Javert manages a reply that is forgotten as soon as it is said, and he directs his outward attention to the meal. Meanwhile his thoughts are circling.

Valjean is staying. 

He, Javert, changed his mind. 

No, that’s inaccurate-- all Javert’s arguments, all his logic and pleading, came to nothing. It was only what he did last night convinced Valjean to change his mind. It seems that his mouth can be suitably persuasive, so long as he isn’t using it to speak.

Just as well; Javert never did have a talent for lying. 

Because it  is a lie. It must be. It’s no more sincere than a whore’s flirtation, or a spy’s assurances. Merely a means to an end. 

Because if he truly-- 

If it was anything more than manipulation, he wouldn’t be doing this at all. He would be urging Valjean to leave France, to go to some lawless country across the sea where he would thrive, to find some other imbecile to be his watchdog and his confidante. He would send him away and be resigned never to look upon his face again, and satisfy his petty lusts elsewhere.

Those, at least, he can bring himself to admit to. Because being with Valjean (and touching him, and kissing him, and taking him into his mouth) is pleasurable. And yes, he craves it-- that much was no lie. It’s hardly the first illicit pleasure that he’s indulged in for the sake of maintaining cover, and it won’t be the first he’s cast aside when the case is over.

It is almost over.

Valjean returns to the cottage, barely taking care to keep to the shadows. There is something fitting about the way the sun burns across his skin for those fleeting moments. It nods to a vicious impulse that he will not otherwise indulge in.

The end of his world should arrive with fire and pain, after all– not with fidgeting hands and an awkward smile.

He gathers himself and forces his expression into, if not a look of happiness, then at least benign neutrality before he opens the door.

"Cosette." He steps aside to give her leave. "Monsieur Pontmercy is in the sitting room with Toussaint. He's waiting for you."

And it is worth it, he tells himself, to see the joy so bright in her eyes. To feel her throw her arms around him and kiss his cheek with a whispered "thank you, Papa." He commits this moment to memory– only a moment, and she is racing away from him, and to her future.

In her wake she has left Javert, sitting up over a half-empty plate and watching him intently.

"Your daughter brought me breakfast," he explains needlessly.

Valjean wants little more than to fall at Javert's feet and weep into his lap. He wants Javert to put the amorphous pain into words for him so it can be  simple – and if it can't, he wants Javert to chase the thoughts from his mind with skillful hands and a passionate mouth, until the world shrinks to just the two of them. 

By all rights, he shouldn't. Javert is still recovering his strength– he hardly needs to waste his diminished energy tending to Valjean's misery. It would be selfish even to ask.

But isn't he allowed this little selfishness? Hasn't he sacrificed enough in sending Cosette to her suitor– can't he be greedy in this, at least?

Javert sets his plate aside and rises, unbidden. 

"I take it from your dour expression that the meeting went well."

Valjean winces and enters, shutting the door behind him. "The boy is… sincere." It is the kindest word he can muster at the moment, and even that comes out sounding like a slur.

"You don't approve of him," Javert observes.

For once, Valjean allows a scowl to show on his face. "He doesn't deserve her."

"No," Javert says. And then, "Does anyone?"

Valjean averts his eyes. 

No. There’s nobody worthy of Cosette. Nobody who could possibly earn the right to take her away. It is as Javert said before: if he had his way, Valjean would keep her trapped at his side until her dying day. 

Which is why this isn’t his choice to make. 

The boy shows no signs of cruelty or malice. There is no indication that he would do her harm or lead her to ruin. Beyond that, Valjean has no right to intervene. 

She loves Pontmercy. He brings her joy.

That is the end of it.

His shoulders fall. “I'm going to lose her.”

“Nonsense.” Javert gives a disproving huff. “She isn't about to abandon you.”

“She should,” Valjean replies. “She must, for her own sake.” He can hear the indrawn breath of a rebuttal, and he looks up, finally meeting Javert’s eyes. “You have seen firsthand what happens to those who associate with me.”

“I have seen those men, yes,” Javert says, advancing on him. “And I have told you already that I will put an end to their interference. Did you think that was a lie?”

As if Javert would ever speak less than the truth.

As if he could.

Valjean turns away from him. “You don’t understand. Thenardier is not the only danger.”  Before him is the window. There, across the garden and in the main house, Cosette is being offered an honest life with a respectable family, with no pall of criminality hanging over them. “My presence is a threat to her happiness.”

“Your absence would be fatal to it.” When did Javert get so close? Surely a moment ago he was across the room, and now he’s standing so near that they’re touching, his chest warm and sturdy against Valjean’s back, his hands curled around Valjean’s shoulders. 

Valjean covers one of those hands with his own. 

“She was never mine to keep,” he confesses. “I was only ever meant to protect her until she found a better home for herself. No more. And now...."

Javert squeezes his shoulder. “Monsieur.”

Valjean can’t repress a shudder at the title. “No.”

“No?”

“Please don’t call me that. Not here.” 

There is a moment’s silence. “What would you prefer?”

 Don’t make me say it. Please, don’t make me beg for this. It is difficult enough to accept comfort that's offered to him. Asking for it plainly might just break him.

He hangs his head and comes as close as he can manage. “You know my name.”

Javert leans closer, until his ribs press against Valjean’s spine with his indrawn breath. When he speaks, it is barely a whisper, the syllables nearly lost in the place where his beard meets the line of his hair. 

“Valjean.”

A tremor rattles through him in reply. He presses Javert’s hand. Laces their fingers.

Javert’s lips graze the shell of his ear. “Jean.”

He can count on his fingers how many times that name has been uttered since he left Toulon. 

Always in accusation. In condemnation. In derision.

Never like this.

His knees go weak. He might lose his balance entirely, but Javert’s free hand slides around his chest, pulls him closer still.

“Jean,” he says again, more urgently. His fingers slide to the buttons of his shirt. Slide between them, to press against bare skin.

Valjean nearly whimpers. “We shouldn’t.”

A single button comes unfastened. A second follows it. “I disagree.”

“You should be resting.”

“Bold words, coming from you,” Javert says, not unkindly. “When was the last time you slept?”

Valjean doesn't answer. 

“I notice you cleaned and dressed me after our… activities last night.” He makes an effort to sound stern, but he can’t quite hide the note of satisfaction in his tone. “Did you get any rest for yourself?”

“I did lay down,” Valjean admits. Not to sleep. Only to watch Javert, to hold him in his arms for just a little while. He didn’t want to miss the chance while he had it.

Javert makes a sound of approval in Valjean’s ear, and it sends another shiver down his spine. “Good.”

“And I… dozed, before,” Valjean adds, thinking of the way Javert clung to him, the pleased sounds he made with his head on his lap. “Sitting with you.”

“Then sit with me now.”

It does sound tempting. “It’s not even noon,” Valjean protests, but he doesn’t stop Javert from working open the buttons of his waistcoat. “I can hardly sleep the day away.”

“If you had any sense of propriety about time, you wouldn’t go running about in the middle of the night.” 

“But Cosette--” 

“Will be thoroughly distracted for the near future.”

Valjean winces. “Please don’t remind me.”

“I could take your thoughts off the matter for a while.” The waistcoat comes undone, and Javert tugs it down his shoulders. He can’t get it much further than that-- too much of the fabric is still pinned between Valjean’s back and Javert’s chest. Extracting it would require parting, and Javert seems to have no intention of doing that. “Let me give you some peace of mind.”

“I won’t have much of that if I make you overexert yourself again.”

“Do you really think you can make me do anything?” Javert’s peevish tone loses its bite when he’s still nuzzling at Valjean’s ear, and Valjean can’t help a little smile at the contradiction.

“You need your rest.”

“So rest with me.” Javert huffs. “The bed is large enough for us both.”

“It really isn't.”

“Then buy a larger one,” Javert says. “You can afford it. In the meantime, we can make do.”

Valjean actually manages a laugh at his brazenness. “Do you intend to continue staying here?”

“Clearly I must. Who else will harass you into taking care of yourself?” He stamps a kiss to the delicate skin behind his ear. “Come to bed, Jean.”

The little cot really is too small for two grown men, Javert muses when he slips back to awareness. There’s nothing particularly restful about the arrangement, Javert lying half on top of Valjean with their limbs tangled, each one a slight shift in position away from falling off entirely. Really, a nap in the middle of the day is the sort of luxury that neither one of them is prone to indulge in. It’s ridiculous he suggested this at all.

But Valjean is right here beneath him, one arm wrapped around his waist to keep him close, his expression beatific in the first decent sleep he’s probably had in days. 

Something dangerous stirs in his chest, and he tamps it down before it can demand to be named.

Happy birthday to me~

Have some juicy negotiation~

A week has passed since the attack.

Cosette is overjoyed to be formally courted by Marius, and no matter how he is pained by the thought of that courtship reaching its conclusion, Valjean can’t deny the way his heart warms at her happiness. She’s taken to doting on her new benefactor (as she has started teasingly calling him), and under her attention Javert is recovering rapidly-- far too rapidly, Javert claims, to match for the severity of the marks that remain on him after the incident. If he returns to his duties so prematurely healed, it may lend some credence to Thenardier’s claims of the supernatural. And so he stays at Number 55, Rue Plumet-- because he would grow bored and restless, he insists, if he were cooped up alone in his own lodgings.

And he is safer here, Valjean does not say.

Here, Javert is under his constant protection, where help can be at his side in the time it takes to utter a cry, where Valjean can safeguard him from all the dangers of the world.

At least, most of the time.  

The thought circles Valjean’s mind incessantly as they work together in the garden-- Valjean under the cover of his wide-brimmed hat and keeping to the shadows, and Javert pruning and weeding in those sunlit patches that Valjean cannot bear to linger in. His inspector has made such an aggressive study of the foliage there that Valjean half-wonders if he’ll soon come across case files filled with police sketches of nettles and dandelions, and he removes them from the vegetable patches with extreme prejudice. He does not look to Valjean for approval, but his gaze keeps slipping to the ever-growing pile of weeds as if it might be worthy of attention if it should grow to a sufficient size. 

The sight makes Valjean’s heart ache.

“You’ve done excellent work here, Javert,” he says, and braves the sunlight long enough to collect the pile. “I don’t know if this bed has ever been the subject of such diligent attention.” 

Javert is still on his knees, his hands braced against the dirt, his face tilted to him with a peculiar look-- at once timid at the praise and beaming with pride and suffused with naked adoration, and Valjean can’t help but to kiss him.

First Cosette and now Javert. It leaves him stunned, sometimes, to think someone like himself is permitted to love them, to have them here in arm’s reach for any stretch of time at all. He wants little more than to be worthy of them. Or, failing that, to give them what safety and happiness he can offer.

He’s reluctant to step away long enough to dispose of the weeds in his compost pile. Even more so to recommend they wash up for dinner (though while they change into clean clothes, Valjean pins Javert against the wall and kisses him until his inspector is breathless). They are nearly out the door to go to the main house when Valjean can put it off no longer.

“Bring your cane,” he says. 

Javert stiffens like a dog on the scent. Thus far Valjean has been reluctant to replace the pistol Thenardier stole, but the leaden head of the cane still makes an effective weapon. “Has something happened?”

“No,” Valjean says, and tries to look reassuring despite the twisting in his gut. “No. But I have something I must attend to after dinner. I would feel more at ease if you’re both together while I’m away.” 

Javert takes his cane from beside the door, but he regards Valjean with an interrogator’s eye. “What is it that you feel requires your attention so late at night?” 

Valjean averts his gaze. “A personal matter.” 

The truth is that he hasn't fed since he licked the lifeblood from Javert's wounds. He hasn’t yet come to the point of weakening-- he will not allow himself to do so, not now-- but it’s getting difficult to put the memory out of his mind. The taste of Javert in his mouth. The smell of him. 


 You drank from me. Tell me, how do I taste? 



 Was I appetizing? 



 Would you do it again, if you had the opportunity?  


Valjean doesn’t let himself trust that offer. Javert had been nearly delirious at the time, starved of compassion and desperate to keep him from leaving. Since then Valjean has done what he can to assure him that it isn’t necessary-- that intimacy need not be purchased with blood. 

But he cannot stop himself from feeling that hunger.

That night Javert is more quiet than usual. They are both typically content to let Cosette lead the conversation at dinner, but tonight Javert's gaze keeps drifting to Valjean with a concerning intensity. Valjean knows that look all too well-- he was subject to it often in Montreuil, when Javert’s respect for the mayor’s authority kept him from voicing his disapproval of his policies. The longer he looks, the more difficult it is to meet his eyes. 

There is nothing to be done about it. Valjean must feed. He will not allow himself to weaken, not while Thenardier is out there, not while Cosette and Javert are in his sights. 

At least Javert is dutiful enough to do as he’s asked: when the awkward, uncomfortable dinner ends, he makes some excuse about wanting to do some reading, and has Cosette show him the library while Valjean slips out into the night.

When he enters through the gate a few hours later, a flicker of light from above catches his eye: a curtain is drawn back and Javert looks down at him, meets his eyes, and drops the curtain again.

Javert doesn’t come back to bed with him that night. 

Javert is not upset.

Nor is he  sullen , no matter what Cosette says over breakfast. At least she allows him the excuse of being stiff from falling asleep reading, and she even apologizes for not waking him. Meanwhile her father will only look at him sidelong, like a dog who’s been caught with sausages in its mouth--

That is the wrong comparison. Even if it is apt.

Valjean isn’t being-- unfaithful. That would require this thing between them to be-- something that it is decidedly not, because it is an act of deception on his part and an act of charity on Valjean’s, and it is ludicrous to slip into character deeply enough to forget that. 

So: he is not upset.

Still, the thought of last night gnaws on him (as other things decidedly do not), and so he finds himself marching on Valjean’s little cottage. 

He means to be subtle and sly-- to approach the matter from the side and get the truth of it while Valjean is caught unaware.

Instead he blurts it out: “Where do you typically get your meals?”

Valjean goes very still, his hand hovering over the lamp he was in the process of refilling. There is that look again, a guilty man caught. “Oh?”

“Am I wrong to assume that’s where you went last night?” Javert presses. As if it isn’t clear in the unusual color in Valjean’s cheeks-- it cannot be attributed exclusively to discomfiture.

“You’re not mistaken.” He chooses his words carefully. “The last time the subject arose, you spoke as if you’d witnessed it.” 

“At the time I was more concerned with the act itself,” Javert says. “There was little opportunity to take in the details.”

“Ah. Yes.” Valjean finishes filling lamp and sets the bottle of oil aside. Javert watches him, unblinking. “They are willing, all of them,” he says at last. “Not everyone is happy to accept alms from me. For some, their pride is far more dear than their hunger, and it pleases them to make it a… an exchange of mutual service, rather than an act of charity.” 

“A transaction.” Javert doesn’t allow himself to think on why this irritates him so much. 

“An agreement."

 He wouldn’t demand payment. But then, that’s half the pleasure of it for Valjean, isn’t it? He does so enjoy taking care of people. It isn’t lost on Javert that half his role in this thing between them is as a ready subject for Valjean’s generosity. The man might derive as much pleasure from taking care of Javert as he does from taking him to bed.

Or is that, too, an act of charity? Is it merely  pity that moves Valjean to fuck the poor besotted inspector when there are so many more pleasing options available?

Valjean seems to misinterpret his ire, because he adds, “There is no law against it. The most relevant ordinances refer to murder, barbarism, and the desecration of a corpse, and none of those apply in this case. What I take is fairly paid for and willingly given by living people.”

His argument is reasonable. The heat it raises on Javert’s cheeks is less so. Does Valjean really think that he, Javert, can be distracted with some recitation of the penal code?

He should not be surprised-- as Madeline, Valjean was always meticulous about his dealings with the law, pointedly so. It’s only natural that he would pursue this matter with the same scrupulosity.

“But are they licensed for what they sell?” he demands.

“I would ensure that they were, if I could find any papers that could possibly apply.” 

Oh, couldn’t he? Javert hasn’t forgotten how frequently Monsieur le maire had been spotted on the wharf, in the presence fo ladies of ill repute. 

“A license for prostitution comes to mind.” 

“Javert!” Valjean has the gall to look offended by that remark. “It is no such thing!”

“Isn’t it?” 

“Of course not-- by all means it might be called a medical transfusion, though perhaps less dangerous than that procedure. It is hardly a sexual act!”

It is the surprise, more than anything else, that makes Javert start to believe him. There is no wheedling persuasion here. Still, he doesn’t miss the flush on Valjean’s cheeks.

“The literature would suggest otherwise,” he mutters.

“The literature!” Valjean doesn't laugh– he's far too kind for that– but he very obviously would like to. “The literature is almost exclusively melodrama. It has little in common with reality. Surely the literature’s discussion of police work isn’t accurate?”

No.

No, it is not.

In fact, almost nothing about those serials and novellas is. So why should this be any closer to the truth?

Why, except that he wants it to be?

“I see.” Javert is acutely aware of the flush in his own cheeks. He’s earnestly debating if he has too much dignity remaining to slink away and hide, but Valjean is already close upon him.

“Is that what I did to upset you so?” he asks gently. 

“I am not upset.” He isn’t. He shouldn’t be. The thought of Valjean feeding from other people--  practically strangers! -- is easier to bear if he thinks of it as impersonal and detached, no more intimate than purchasing bread from the baker. 

But it is difficult to reconcile that clinical image with the thought of Valjean pinning him to his chest and whispering dark promises in his ear before he sinks eager teeth into willing flesh. 

“Javert.” Valjean cradles his face in his hands, smoothing his whiskers with his thumbs. “Just how much of this literature have you been reading?”

This time it’s Javert who can’t meet his eyes.

It is true: the one encounter he witnessed was hospitable and chaste. The closest it came to impropriety was when Valjean insisted on overpaying the other man.

This is why there are laws about self-recrimination.

“Your point is made. There’s no need to speak of this further."

“No,” Valjean agrees, and presses a kiss to his cheek. “Forgive me. It was never my intention to distress you.”

Of course it wasn’t. Of course not. Because when has Jean Valjean ever meant to hurt anyone?

Javert grunts. "As you said, these are lawful transactions."

"But you would rather they not continue."

"My desires are immaterial here," Javert snaps. "I'm not going to ask you to starve yourself. Nor will I deprive you of your ridiculous need for alms-giving, no matter how poorly you disguise it."

That's all it is. That's all.

Javert doesn't need any more of Jean Valjean's charity.

"Javert."

He doesn't.

"What is it you want?"

He  doesn't .

There is a part of him that sees this for the pity it is, and wants to spit it right back in his face. 

There is another part– the character he's playing, nothing more– that would gladly crawl on his belly for this man, pride be damned. 

Both are in agreement that Valjean must be allowed to feed. If that bothers him sufficiently, the only recourse is to break off the more intimate aspects of their association.

Both parts of him recoil at the idea. Unacceptable. He will not cast aside their– he will not jeopardize this case for the sake of petty jealousy.

“My offer still stands,” he mutters. He would hang his head if Valjean wasn’t still holding it in his hands. “Do what you think is best. But know that it isn’t necessary to go elsewhere, if leaving the house would be-- an inconvenience to you.”  

He once stood before this man and demanded his own dismissal. The very end to his career. Admitting his desires, even obliquely, should not compare to that.

“I won’t take anything from you yet,” Valjean says. “I won’t risk interfering with your recovery.”

Even now, Valjean is so careful in the way he speaks, so intent not to cause harm.

Still, Javert can’t help feeling the sting of rejection. 

“Very well,” he says stiffly. The offer has been made and rebuffed. He will not press it further.

But Valjean isn't finished.

“What I took last night will sustain me for another week," he continues. “And by then your health should be in no more danger. If by then your mind remains unchanged--"

“You put far too much stock in my health,” Javert says, not as peevishly as he might have hoped. “I’m not as fragile as you seem to believe.” 

“Not fragile, no.” Valjean tips his brow against Javert’s. “But I love you too dearly to treat you so carelessly.” 

Javert blinks, uncomprehending, as his mind slips its rails. 

That isn’t-- accurate. He must have misspoken.

Javert is competent. He is exacting. He is  useful  , as a penknife or a set of handcuffs may be useful. And these must be properly maintained to preserve their utility, of course, but such things are not  dear to anyone. 

So far as Valjean is concerned, Javert is here to guard his daughter and to soothe his anxieties and to weed his garden and to suck his cock. 

He serves a purpose.

He is not–

He does not–

Valjean takes care of him, but he takes care of everyone, gamins and whores and clumsy suitors alike. He feels charity as innately as Javert feels his duty, as other men feel hunger. That sense of charity can be appealed to, but it doesn’t  mean anything. 

It doesn’t mean anything.

“Javert?” Valjean says carefully.

Javert ought to demand he explain himself. Such a miscommunication between them can only bring trouble later. He knows this. 

He takes Valjean’s face in his hands. Cards his fingers through that downy beard.

“Thank you, Jean.”

The kiss is soft and too close to sincere.

Were he actually in love with Valjean, he would be setting himself up for heartbreak.

How fortunate, then, that he is not.

We have a juicy chapter today.

If you're not feeling into anything spicy, go ahead and quit your reading at “While I live he will not touch you again.” 


Chabouillet rises from his seat as Valjean and Javert enter the cafe.  



“Monsieur,” he says, and gives a small bow. “Monsieurs,” he corrects, nodding to Javert. This is a secret meeting, as such things go, and it would not do to draw unnecessary attention to themselves by calling each other by name. For the same reason Javert is in civilian clothes-- Valjean insisted that a gentleman’s habit would be an ideal disguise for him, and his obvious pleasure in gifting them left Javert too flustered to object. Even in the grand attire, being out of uniform before his patron feels uncomfortably like being underdressed. 



Chabouillet has chosen his seat in the far corner of the cafe, with his back to the wall and a good view of the door to keep watch for members of the Patron-Minette. (Privately Valjean has made his own assurances of Javert’s safety, delivered with a fervor that Javert will not allow himself to think of in Chabouillet’s presence.) If he had his way, Javert would also sit with his back to the wall, but their conversation here requires otherwise.



Javert’s absence for the past two weeks has thusfar gone unexcused and unexplained to anyone save the secretary himself, at Javert’s request.



“Our targets have good reason to think me dead,” he explains, his fingers surreptitiously working at his cravat. “So long as they aren’t corrected, they won’t expect to find me-- and I’ll be able to use that to my advantage.”



“And you’re certain they think you’re dead?”



"I’m certain.” Javert opens his shirt just enough to reveal his neck and a thin sliver of his chest, and his patron nearly starts to his feet. The wounds are healed, but the scars are deep, ugly things, and the gash across his throat is the worst of them all. 



“My God,” Chabouillet whispers, his hand over his mouth to stifle the sound. “Monsieur, it is a miracle you found him.”



Valjean stiffens imperceptibly, but Javert can still see the way his gaze hardens and his jaw sets.



“It is by the grace of God that I found him in time,” he says. “That I found him at all was intentional.”



“Just what are you saying?”



“You recall the delusions the man holds,” Javert says. His belief about Valjean’s vampirism may be fact, but the rest is a lie: that Valjean is dangerous, crazed, a monster. “He left me in Monsieur’s path in hopes that the scene would prove him correct.” 



Chabouillet makes an inarticulate sound. “He meant to bait you like an animal.”



“Just so.” Even though Valjean’s hands are folded demurely on the table, the pose is as rigid and unmoving as a statue. He could shatter the table with those hands. He would, if he was even fractionally less controlled. A shiver runs down Javert’s spine, knowing that rage is on his behalf. 



He shifts his leg so their knees press against each other under the table. Valjean jolts, just slightly. His eyes flit to Javert, and his expression softens.



“Monsieur has overseen my care himself,” Javert says. “He feared that if the men responsible learned of my being brought to a hospital, they would return to finish the job.” His eyes remain on his patron, but his knee presses again to Valjean’s. 



They sketch out the beginnings of a strategy: The police will be stationed in secret at key points throughout Paris. Valjean will resume giving alms along a predetermined route, passing from the view of one cluster of police to the next, while Javert trails him from the shadows as a sort of bodyguard. When Thenardier makes his next move, they’ll be prepared with an ambush. 



The other details of the plan come later, once they’re back in the garden and safe from prying eyes. 



They will make their base of operations the Rue de l’Homme Arme, to avoid Thenardier or the Patron-Minette following them back to Cosette, and at irregular intervals Javert will return to the house to make sure of her safety. Thanks to her secret courtship with Pontmercy, she has already developed remarkable skill with surveilling the surrounding streets, as well as an intricate code that can be seen in the windows from a distance. She has been given an edited version of the truth, though as far as she knows it is Javert who is the target and Valjean who is protecting him.



The way Valjean keeps looking at him, it doesn’t feel like much of an embellishment. 



Pontmercy has volunteered to make patrols of his own to ensure her safety; apparently has some friends who are willing to occupy nearby pubs and cafes for the duration of the event, ready to come running to the rescue should he raise an alarm. (Javert is suspicious of these schoolboys– doubly so when one of them suggests a stipend for food and drinks, supposedly for the sake of avoiding suspicion. Valjean, of course, finds their request to be perfectly reasonable.)



All the while, Valjean keeps looking at him.



Javert can feel his eyes on him almost continuously: on his back, tracing his shoulders, caressing his face, turning away only to sweep over their surroundings before they return to him. He might almost call the looks jealous, but he's never known Valjean to be anything less than generous in all things.



They walk separately to the flat on the Rue de l'Homme Arme so as not to draw attention, but even though he can't see Valjean, he can feel that gaze on him every step of the way. Even when he reaches the flat and shuts the door between them, he feels no relief from the prickling, mounting tension.



He is not one to fidget, but he busies himself with drawing back the dust sheets from the furniture and opening the windows to circulate the air.



He's in the master bedroom when the front door opens and, very quietly, shuts again. There's a faint click as the lock is secured.



Javert raises his voice. "Monsieur?"



He won't risk using his name if there's someone else inside the flat. He left his cane beside the door, but he can render a chair into a weapon if necessary. His hand settles on the stool in front of the shaving mirror. 



Light footsteps move his way.



"Monsieur?"



"Javert." Valjean's voice is barely more than a rumble. He draws open the door and enters with slow, measured strides. Gone are all his little ways of making himself smaller and unnoticeable. His shoulders are level and impossibly broad, his head is high, his hands coiled in loose fists that could break down walls if he were half inclined. He is iron and adamant given human form. 



Something in Javert wants to shrink back from his advance, to fall to his knees and prostrate himself. Instead he stands taller, his spine straighter, as is only correct in the presence of such authority.



"Javert," he says again. "I don't enjoy having you out of my sight."



Javert has been instructed not to refer to Valjean as Monsieur when they are alone, and so he does not utter it a third time. Nor does he feel it appropriate to call him by his given name. Instead he remains silent.



"I am aware that your duty will put you in harm's way; for the sake of your happiness, I can bear that. But this…" His hands rise to unknot Javert's cravat. His fingertips barely brush the seam of the scar there. "What this man has done is beyond any forgiveness but God's own. And yet I am to leave you unprotected and invite him to try again."



"You are his target. Not I." Javert's mouth is parched. "He has no reason to believe me still alive."



"That is the only reason I allow this plan." The silk flutters, discarded, to the floor, before he moves on to unfasten the buttons of his shirt. “While I live he will not touch you again.” 



A tremor ripples through Javert. Valjean’s fingers still, and his gaze rises to Javert’s face. 



“I haven’t reconsidered,” Javert says, reading the unspoken question there. “Please don’t stop.” 



Valjean presses a gentle kiss to his mouth, and then trails his lips down a familiar path: his cheek, the edge of his jaw, the edge of his throat.



It’s been a week since Valjean last fed. A week since their last full discussion. In that time, it has only been addressed in passing, their scraps of conversation so fleeting that they may as well never have happened at all. Most of them have been simple: a lingering glance and a nod in reply. The most complete was only a few sentences: when they decided to show Javert’s scars to Chabouillet, that there should be no other marks on his body to lend credence to Thenardier’s so-called delusion. 



Now there’s no more need to put it off. The only man who will see the bites will be the one who leaves them.



Valjean’s lips part against the place where the neck meets the shoulder. His teeth graze over the skin there almost tenderly, allowing Javert to acclimate to his presence there and giving him one last chance to pull away.



And then fangs sink into flesh: slowly, deliberately, with exacting care. It still hurts when he breaks through the skin, and Javert can’t help a slight jolt. Valjean’s grip closes around his upper arms and holds him in place, solid and inescapable as iron.




I may need to hold you down, 

Valjean had told him, heavy and quiet, as if that would somehow change Javert’s mind. As if it wouldn't make him even more eager. 

When instinct arises, people will sometimes… struggle. And in doing so they can tear their own flesh against my teeth.

 And Javert remembered the ragged scars on Thenardier, and wondered if Valjean felt guilt for even that loathsome creature. 



He said it again, with the kind of trepidation that can only be born from care: 

I don’t want to hurt you.




Javert’s head tips back. He can feel the fangs in his flesh, the suction drawing blood to the surface, the inaudible groans of pleasure as his blood hits Valjean’s tongue.



A sound escapes Javert, raw and needy. His knees go weak. They would fail him entirely, if Valjean wasn’t holding him in place. Still his hands scrabble at Valjean’s waist, clinging where they dig into his shirt. One leg hitches over Valjean’s hip and he pulls him closer still, and he thrills when he feels their erections grind against each other through layers of fabric. 



“More,” he gasps. “More, Jean, please--” 



He's answered with a possessive growl that vibrates through his bones and sets his nerves alight. 



“Inside me,” he begs, incoherent with need. “Fuck me. Jean, give me your cock, fuck me, 

please

--” 



He almost regrets it when he feels Valjean’s teeth unlatch from his flesh, but then he catches a glimpse of his face. His eyes are dark, his face wild, his lips stained an intimate red. With a feral sound he kisses Javert, forceful and hard, and his tongue leaves behind the taste of salt and iron as it plunders his mouth. Valjean’s hands move with more dexterity than Javert can comprehend as they divest him of trousers and drawers-- and apparently himself as well, because when they collide again that is Valjean’s cock hard against his own. He is scooped up into Valjean’s arms as if he weighs nothing at all, held in place with one powerful hand while the other works him open, his fingers wet with something Javert can’t be bothered to identify. 



Some distant corner of his mind notes that he stretches open faster than the last time Valjean prepared him, now that he’s accustomed enough to welcome the blunt fingers and invite them inside. Another errant thought observes the way the blood wells in his neglected shoulder, the way it overflows his wound and drips, hot, down his chest, before it’s lapped up by an eager tongue. 



And then those fingers leave his entrance to dig into his thighs, adjust their grip, and lower him onto Valjean’s waiting cock. Gravity and insatiable hands drag him down, down, until he's impaled to the hilt. And then those hands tighten and lift him while his lips close again on Javert’s shoulder. 



Javert's back strikes a wall, and he is squeezed there, his ribs crushed against Valjean’s, his spine curling every time Valjean thrusts inside him, his shoulder is aflame beneath Valjean’s tongue. The sensations are so overwhelming that they blend into something else altogether. He is penetrated completely, he is hollowed out, he exists only to be poured out and out and 

out

, Valjean is wringing him dry like a rag, squeezing and sucking and fucking him past sanity. And then Valjean pulls him even closer and goes very still and Javert can feel himself being filled. And then he is drowning in sweet, desperate kisses, bloodstained lips pressed to his face and neck and chest. A hand wraps around his prick and pumps, squeezes, and Javert is coming so hard he can see constellations behind his eyelids. 



“Jean,” he gasps, glassy-eyed, as he is lifted off that beautiful cock. “Jean-- Jean-- oh, Jean--” 



It is the only word he still knows how to say. 



Vaguely he is aware of being laid out on a mattress, of Valjean’s weight settling protectively on top of him, of a soft tongue lapping gently at the wound on his shoulder. 



Presumably he passes into a doze, because when he regains himself it is to the feeling of a warm, damp cloth dabbing at his skin. Valjean’s hand stills on him, pausing in his ministrations.



“Javert?” he asks softly. “Are you well?”



Javert’s laugh is not a famously pleasant sound on the best of days, closer to a bark than anything else. Now-- with his throat raw and his ribs apparently bruised-- it must be absolutely frightful. 



Gravity has just inverted itself, the world is turned outside-in, and the man asks if he’s 

well

?



“Javert?” Valjean combs a freshly washed hand through Javert’s hair. 



“Hardly sexual,” Javert says at last, when he can form the words. “No more personal than a transfusion. That is what you said, yes?”



When Valjean’s face comes into focus, he is blushing nearly as bright as the fleck of blood on his lip. “Well.”



“If that’s what they get up to during those medical demonstrations, I think I understand why they’re so popular.” 



Valjean dips his head. “It isn’t usually so… stimulating.”



“No?”



“Only with you, Javert.” He presses a chaste kiss to the corner of his mouth, and Javert’s lips curl into a grin.


I'm working a convention right now. It's absolutely murdering me, and it's been murdering me for weeks now. I wish I could go through and smooth the parts that feel unduly choppy, but I just don't have the brains for it.

If Javert had his way, he would keep their excursions to the most crowded avenues of Paris-- those places where there are many witnesses to see a crime underway and raise the alarm, and where a single figure trailing after a gentleman would go unnoticed in a crowd.

Of course that isn’t how these things go.

In order to create a more tempting target, Valjean ventures out in the evenings and stays until late into the night, where the shadows and alleyways provide ample cover for murderous criminals to hide. 

To avoid detection, Javert keeps his movements parallel with Valjean, but a single street over, and they see each other only at alleys and intersections. 

Beyond that, he must trust that Valjean can fend for himself.

Which he can. If Javert had any reason to doubt him before, the previous day's activity expunged it from his mind. The bite is healing so fast and so neatly that it might not even leave a scar. Far slower to disappear are the purpling fingerprints that leave fascinating patterns on his skin. Valjean fretted over the marks, but he didn't get far into verbal self-flagellation before Javert pinned him to the bed and provided a thorough distraction.

Javert makes his own rounds to the Rue Plumet during daylight hours, when he can take proper advantage of the crowds to hide his passage. Valjean begrudgingly stays behind during those excursions, though he is always waiting at the door when Javert returns. By the second day of this, Javert isn’t surprised to find him there. By the third, he catches Valjean pressing his face into Javert’s coat and inhaling when he embraces him at the door.

“It isn’t that I don’t trust your perception,” Valjean was quick to assure him. “But if there is any chance you were followed, any at all, I want to know.”

“You could have just asked me,” Javert had grumbled. “I would have handed you my coat so you could inspect it freely.”

“Yes, you would.” And Valjean had pulled him tighter still and breathed heavy into his shoulder, just over the faint scar of a bite. “But this way is far more enjoyable.”

It is for this reason that Javert steps through the door with his arms already spread, ready to be swept up into Valjean’s arms. By all means, he should feel some trepidation at being ensnared this way by a vampire, but he has never felt more secure than with Valjean’s arms around him. 

“She is safe,” he assures him. “She changed the morning’s signal for the afternoon’s while I watched.” A bouquet of poppies set in the library window indicated that Pontmercy had been by to check on her during the previous watch, coming from the south. A blue iris would have indicated that she’d spotted Javert, orange lilies for a sign of danger, and pink carnations when there was nothing at all to report. A white peony theoretically represents her father-- it hasn’t happened yet, and by all means shouldn’t, but the symbol is in their lexicon and the flower is in her garden nonetheless. Meanwhile the time and direction are revealed by which window she placed them in. When she’d explained it, Cosette had admitted it wasn’t necessary to remember every detail: half the value of the code’s complexity was that it wasn’t easily learned by an outside party. Even if one of the Patron-Minette found her and realized that the windows and flowers meant something, they would lose valuable time trying to decipher just what it was– or if it meant anything at all, beyond a silly girl’s changing taste in decoration, and it is entirely divorced from the thieves’ cant with which they would already be familiar. “If she ever considers a career as a spy, she’ll be unparalleled.” 

“I can only pray that her interests will lie elsewhere,” Valjean says, and Javert is relieved to feel some of the stiffness leaving his posture as he says it. He’s started to learn how the anxiety builds upon itself and reframes every detail and offhand remark in the most alarming light. That he can take this last one as nothing more than a joke means he’s starting to relax. 

Their baiting walks through Paris may be hard on Javert’s nerves, but at least he has the option of hurrying to the next intersection and straining his ears for any signal of alarm-- at least he can feel like he’s doing something. Those walks are little strain on Valjean, who knows all too well how to endure any mistreatment that would befall him. For him, it’s this part of the day that is hardest: when Javert ventures out to check on Cosette, and Valjean is alone with spiraling thoughts of how disaster might strike while he’s none the wiser. Worst, there is nothing he can do to distract himself. There is no vast garden at this residence to keep Valjean occupied, and no absurd overgrowth to shield him from the sun even if there were. In other circumstances he might fill his hours with prayer and scripture and contemplation, but at the moment that only fuels his anxieties. 

Javert does what he can to hasten his trips without making them obvious, to make his reports detailed and reassuring. And, of course, he derails those spiraling thoughts as quickly as possible. 

It’s after one of those derailments, when the afternoon sun is still bright against the curtains and they’re curled together in the master bed, that Javert makes his mistake. 

His thoughts are a well-fucked jumble, and he absently traces imaginary lines across Valjean’s bare back. 

“I thought I remembered scars here, once,” he muses, his voice hoarse and slurred with satisfaction.

“There were.”

Javert props himself up to look more closely at Valjean. The injuries that should have left scars vanished from his skin long ago. Javert kisses the his bicep where Thenardier had bound him with a rosary, just in case there’s some mark there invisible to the eye, but he finds nothing. “You don’t seem to scar easily.”

“Not anymore.” Valjean twines his hand through Javert’s hair where it hangs loose over him. “But I was still human when you knew me in Toulon.” 

“Ah.” Javert doesn’t know the proper thing to say. It feels like walking on rubble in the aftermath of some disaster-- if he doesn’t tread carefully, it might collapse entirely. But he can’t deny that he wants to know. “It happened after your release, then?”

“Before then. After your transfer to Paris.”

Javert has questions-- so many questions-- but he bites them back with a great force of will. “It isn’t necessary to tell me, if it would distress you.” 

“It was a long time ago,” Valjean says. “I’ve never told anyone about it, save for the Bishop.” The Bishop, at least, is stable ground for him to tread. Javert remembers when Monsieur Madeline went into public mourning for the man, though it’s only more recently that he’s learned the extent of that story. Now the memory of the man seems to comfort Valjean, and he continues to card his hand through Javert’s hair. “I tried to escape the prison. Again.” Javert pointedly does  not  comment on how his sentence would have been that much shorter if he’d just accepted the original term with the patience and dignity that he is obviously capable of. Despite the  very clear  logic to it, he keeps his silence, and he’s quite proud of that fact-- though clearly his face doesn’t hide it quite so well, because Valjean flashes a wry smile. “Yes, I am well aware.”

“By all means, continue.” 

“I got farther that time than I had before,” Valjean continues. “During a previous attempt I’d heard of a stretch of wilderness that the locals tried to avoid-- they said it was haunted, or cursed-- and so I made my way there, and hoped I could use their superstition to my advantage.” He draws out his hand and lets Javert’s hair cascade between them. “‘Pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.’”

Javert turns his head to kiss his palm. 

“I was surprised to see her there, after those rumors. The first time I crossed paths with her, I tried simply not to draw attention to myself and changed directions after she was out of sight-- at the time, I only feared her telling others that she’d seen me in the woods. The second time, I fled in earnest. It wasn’t until the third encounter that I realized she’d been hunting me, and I thought to subdue her. She was so small, after all, and looked so frail. And I was strong, even then. She seemed to take an interest in that.” He isn’t looking at anything anymore, seeing something that’s long since gone. Javert nearly leans in to kiss him out of it, but stops himself before he can. He suspects that Valjean won’t welcome a mouth against his skin just now. Instead he rubs his thumb against the unmarred skin of his palm and waits. It isn’t long.

“Afterward, she changed me and left me to die,” Valjean continues at last. “Truly, I don't know why the guards bothered to bring me back when they found me. I expected them to put me down like a beast."

Javert presses harder against him. He could recite regulations about the treatment of injured prisoners, even escaped ones, but they would hardly reassure him now-- even less so when Javert remembers all too well how often those regulations went ignored by Toulon’s guards.

"The first weeks back I spent in the infirmary, half mad with what they called infection. I didn't improve until-- another dying man was brought to the cot beside my own. There had been an accident, you see, and he was badly maimed." He says the words quickly, like downing foul medicine in reverse. A tremor runs down his hand, and he pulls it away from Javert with a frightening speed.

“Jean?” 

Valjean’s voice is very small. "I didn't understand what I was doing, Javert. I didn't understand anything, except the hunger and the smell of his wounds." Tears are threatening at the corners of his eyes. 

“Shh, Jean.” Javert leans close against him, his weight pressed down on Valjean’s chest, and kisses them away. Before he’s finished, new ones are already falling.

"I killed him, Javert,” he says, as if he’s confessing a murder. 

Which he isn’t. Manslaughter, at best: an act of desperation in a fit of derangement, little more than an accident of circumstance, if lawyers had ever bothered to argue it out. Which they wouldn’t, even if Valjean had confessed to his own guards with the blood still wet on his lips. The law puts little stock in the lives of convicts. The penalties would have  been minuscule compared to his thwarted attempt to escape. Even Valjean’s own rescue had more to do with forcing him to live out his sentence than with valuing his life.

The thought weighs uncomfortably in his chest. 

"You said yourself that he was dying."

"I don't know that. Not with certainty. He might have lived had I not–"

No. No more of this.

"That was before Digne?" Javert demands, his voice sharp.

"Yes? What does that–"

"Then your soul was purchased with that stain already upon it. It was seen, and known, and forgiven long ago. Do you understand me?”

“Javert--”

“Do you understand me, Jean?” 

He climbs on top of him fully, pins him down and kisses him with a ferocity that borders on cruel, while Valjean clings tight against him. He’d like to snake his hand between them and distract Valjean completely, but he suspects that tactic is far less effective against guilt than anxiety. Slowly, slowly, Valjean’s grip loses its intensity and his tears stop falling. 

"It can’t have been easy," Javert says, when the silence stretches long enough that it needs to be filled. “Being as you are, in that place.”

Valjean’s lip quirks into a weak imitation of a smile. "Easier than it should have been,” he says, another, lesser confession, like lying after murder. “Easier than when I was human in that place. The work no longer ground my body into dust. The injuries healed before they could grow infected."

Javert nearly shudders at the thought. "But the blood–?"

Valjean’s shrug is painful to see. "Every day my inmates lost blood to accidents or the lash. I learned how to take a little at a time, and often, so that my meals could go unnoticed."

"What of the sun?"

"I rubbed clay into my skin to protect against the worst of the burns. You remember how filthy prisoners became.” 

Yes, Javert remembers. But there is far too much of Toulon that he has allowed himself to forget. 

“It was… comfortable there. Not pleasant, not kind, but familiar. I was not a man inside those walls, but the curse ensured I would never be a man again. At least I knew how to survive there.” He doesn’t look at Javert. “Outside, the dirt caked on my skin served as an advance warning of my yellow papers. Blood was hard to come by– nearly impossible, without violence. I was paid less than other men for my labors, when I was paid at all-- and so I could afford no place to sleep that might shelter me from the sun, no mortal food to ease the ache of not feeding. I was starving, near frenzied, beyond hope or reason. When I came across the bishop, I didn't know whether I intended to rob him or devour him. One would have ended me back in the bagne-- still a beast, but a beast caged and fed-- and the other at the guillotine." Put down, like a dog that bit its master.

Javert draws himself up to look at Valjean more directly. “You intended to be caught.”

In the home of a holy man. There would have been a crucifix on every wall. A rosary in every pocket. Javert wouldn't be surprised if the man's blood might qualify as holy water. 

“Is that really so hard to believe?" Valjean asks. "It seemed appropriate. The bishop said God felt differently."

That much is said with gratitude, with faith, as if that somehow makes up for the unimaginable cruelty that came before it.

The man who enforced that cruelty chokes on his words. “I endeavored to send you back there. To that--"

“Don’t concern yourself, Javert,” Valjean says gently. “You did your duty, nothing more.” 

“That isn’t true. You know that isn’t true.” Javert pushes himself back. He shouldn’t be touching Valjean right now. He shouldn’t ever-- “Do you remember Gorbeau house? When we first met there? I was toying with you, then. I waited outside your door for hours, hoping to drive you into a panic. Can you call that mere duty?”

This time it’s Valjean who reaches out to comfort him. His hand cups Javert’s face, his thumb soft against his cheek. “You have done nothing that I don’t forgive you for.”

Javert shouldn't lean into the touch. He shouldn't accept that gentleness from Valjean. He can't stop himself. “You forgive too easily, Jean.” 

“It helps that you didn’t catch me that night,” Valjean says, and this time his smile is more genuine, if a bit wry. “Otherwise, I admit, I might have felt differently.”

Javert tries to match that smile, though he knows his attempt can’t be nearly so calming. He grasps at other details, to force his mind away from the gulf of his thoughts.

“How did you escape, back then? You seemed to vanish into a puff of smoke.” It occurs to him that he doesn’t know: “Can you do that?”

“If it’s possible, I’ve never learned how,” Valjean says. “No, I scaled a wall and wound up inside a convent. On the inside I found I was already well acquainted with the gardener.”

“You can’t be serious.”

“You knew him, too, I think,” Valjean says. “Do you remember the man who was crushed beneath the cart all those years ago? Monsieur Fauchelevant?” 

Javert does remember him, as a matter of fact. The man had apparently been a disagreeable creature even before his business failed, and he hated Monsieur Madeline in particular for his success. And yet Valjean had risked his freedom to save him, because of course he had. Because Valjean would do no less. “I thought you were simply using his name, the way you had Leblanc from the mairie.” 

“That was his idea, actually,” Valjean says fondly. “He told the nuns of the convent that I was his brother Ultime– he even allowed me to take Ultime’s papers for my own– it seems he kept them, unthinkingly, when his brother died.”

It takes every ounce of will for Javert to school his expression long enough to hide his face in Valjean’s chest. With effort, he manages to string words together: “What a strange world we live in.”

And of course Valjean takes that as an invitation to talk about God and Grace and Mysterious Ways, as if he hasn’t just signed his own warrant of arrest. 

Javert can’t hear a word of it. His eyes are wide open, staring into the void.

There it is.

Clear evidence. 

Fauchelevant is dead, but it would be nothing at all to seek out his death certificate from on file, trace it to his home from before Montreuil sur Mer, and find the death certificate for the true Ultime Fauchelevant. An act of fraud, facilitated by a man who owed his life to Mayor Madeline. 

The case is as good as closed.

Everything Javert has worked toward has come to fruition.

But not yet.

He was given direct orders not to allow his private investigation interfere with his duties, and currently Valjean is instrumental to hunting down Thenardier. So he can not be delivered up to the law. Not yet. Not until this case is over. 

He still has some time. 

Javert raises himself to kiss him again, interrupting what might as well have been a psalm.

“Javert?” Valjean asks, caught off guard. 

Javert doesn’t want him to question this. He doesn’t want him to question anything. 

“Do you have any idea how much I want you?” he whispers into Valjean’s ear so there’s no chance of seeing his face. “Take me. Please. I need to feel you inside me.” 

Even if he can’t give Valjean anything else, he can give him this.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Javert?” 

He doesn’t look up, entirely lost in his own thoughts. He's been like this for too long-- since he first woke, still clinging. At the time Valjean had attributed it to Javert's odd moods, but since then his melancholy has only deepened. 

“Javert?” Valjean tries again. This time he gets a look of acknowledgement, though Javert seems to be looking at him through a dense fog. “Are you alright? You seem--” 

“It’s nothing. Only the case. It hasn’t progressed as it should.”

“Thenardier is a cunning man.” Valjean touches his arm, and Javert stiffens under his hand. “You’re doing the best you can.” 

“Am I?” He looks up, a strange light in his eyes. “Or am I dragging my feet to take advantage of this?” He gestures wildly between them. “Am I neglecting law, and duty, and justice-- am I letting a dangerous man walk free just so I--” 

Valjean pulls him into his arms. “Peace, Javert.” Javert shudders in his grip. “We will find him. I have faith in you.”

“You shouldn’t.” Javert clutches at his waistcoat, his fingers curled like talons, his head buried in Valjean’s shoulder. “You had it right before. You should have gone to England. You would be safer far away from here.” 

Valjean squeezes him gently. “The last time you spoke this way, you were asking me to dismiss you.” 

Javert makes a miserable sound. “You should have done that, too." 

“How could I?” Valjean smooths his hair. “You were right about me.” 

“And I was right that you should have cast me out!" Javert shoves himself out of Valjean's arms, though he hasn't yet let go of his waistcoat. "With a word you could have stripped me of duty and authority. I would have been powerless to hurt you. You could have remained in Montreuil.” 

Valjean knows that all too well. He remembers that day, pacing his office and wringing his hands, praying desperately to be delivered from that choice. 

“No. Not at the cost of two innocent men.” 

“Innocent.” Javert laughs bitterly. “Neither of us were innocent. That man in Arras was a criminal already. And I–” He shudders again. “You could have saved that– Cosette’s mother. You said it yourself.” 


 You have killed this woman. 


Valjean’s own voice echoes in his ears, cold and hard with fury. He’d been ready to kill Javert in that moment. He’d been ready to kill the Thenardiers not long after, when he saw just how cruelly they’d abused Cosette, how brutally they’d extorted her mother. 

He'd been so monstrously angry.

His shoulders sag. “What happened to Fantine was not your fault.” He takes a shaking breath, absurdly grateful that they aren’t at the Rue Plumet. He would never dare speak the words if Cosette might overhear. “What you said to her– the shock sped her passing. But it wasn’t you who killed her.” 

He’d wanted it to be. He’d wanted so desperately for it to be someone else’s fault, to absolve his own guilt. He told himself he could have saved her, he  would have saved her, if only she hadn’t died so abruptly. He would have turned her– but just not when she was so ill and out of her mind, and surely once he brought Cosette to her side she would be lucid enough to make that choice for herself. It would have been ideal: if she chose to turn, he would have been the hero who rescued her; if she chose to remain human, he could have pretended it was out of his hands. He could have pretended that he hadn’t been half the cause of her suffering.

“I fed from her, do you know that?” He straightens his back. Schools his expression. He won’t beg for comfort in this confession. “Always too much, and too often. Eventually I took more than she could recover from. I saw the desperation in her eyes every time she sought me out, but she claimed to be willing, and so I didn’t dwell on the matter."

Javert’s shoulders tense. On one of those shoulders, easily close enough for Valjean to touch, is the nearly-healed imprint of fangs. "That was her choice to make."

"There was no other choice she  could make,” he says. “The Thenardiers were holding Cosette hostage. She believed her daughter was at the brink of death, and she so traded her own life for Cosette’s. But the Thenardiers and I-- by negligence or callousness or greed, we exploited that desperation." 

"She never should have placed herself in that position in the first place!"

"No, she shouldn’t have,” Valjean says quietly. “She believed Cosette's father would marry her, but instead he abandoned them. Her only mistake was trusting the man who professed to love her." 

Javert flinches as if he’s been struck. In an instant he rallies, his shoulders level and his back stiff. “It was her own damn fault for believing him,” he snaps. “She should have known such men aren’t to be trusted.”

“Javert!” His voice is sharp, and Javert nearly quakes. But it isn’t until his tone softens that Javert folds. “Surely you don’t believe that.”

“No.” Javert looks away. “I only wish that I did. Such men are… tenacious. It’s no small thing to escape them once they’ve set their sights on their prey.” He turns away entirely and grabs his hat and coat from the hook by the door. “All this talk has me worrying for your daughter. I should look in on her.” 

The sudden change of subject has Valjean reeling– unless it isn’t a change of subject at all? Unless Javert knows something he doesn’t? “Do you think I was wrong, trusting her to the boy?”

Javert’s hand stills, a few inches from the door handle. “No. As you have said, Pontmercy seems sincere. And-- even if he wasn’t, I do not believe she would ever be forced to make her mother’s choices. So long as you are alive and free, she won’t come to harm.” He looks up, and there is a strange intensity in his eyes. “That matters, Jean.” 

Javert flees to the streets of Paris, already regretting his words, but his mind won’t stay still long enough to present any alternatives. He couldn’t be with Valjean in that flat, where whores are martyrs and saints are murderers and criminals are innocent men. 

This needs to end. This needs to end now.

 Monsieur le secretaire,  Javert silently recites as he walks, because otherwise his mind will wander to dangerous places.  I have the-- 

No, he doesn't, not yet. He will not lie to his superior. Not to his superior. But as a spy–


(Her only--)


 I   have found   the evidence that you demanded-- 

No. That's a cowardly term, as if Javert was forced at gunpoint to do this thing, when Chabouillet gave him every opportunity to turn aside.


 I have found the evidence that you wanted– that you requested-- 


 -- that you   require   . In order to procure it-- 


(Her only mistake--)



 I know precisely what it is and where it is to be found. I need only retrieve it. In order to do so I will need to take time away from Paris-- 



(In mercy's name, three days are all I need--)


His boot catches on an uneven cobblestone and he stumbles, his thoughts spilling in every direction before they can be contained.

He drags himself into an alley.


 Her only mistake was trusting the man who professed to love her. 


Javert never said he loved him, not in those words. He insinuated and implied, but he never said it outright. That must make some difference, surely.

No, he only held him and consoled him and swore to keep him safe for precious hours at a time. He only begged for his presence and his confidence and his body, over and over again. He only kept himself up worrying for the man, he only thought of him endlessly, he only gravitated toward him in every waking moment. 

It was the most persuasive, most thorough, most successful lie he’s ever told as a police spy.

Because it wasn’t.

It wasn’t.

He wasn't lying.

He’s in love with Jean Valjean.

A criminal and a vampire. A recidivist, a robber, a fraud, a monster, a blight on society, a hundred ways less than the good people Javert has sworn to protect. 

And a thousand ways more than them-- a devoted father, a generous lover, a paragon of charity and patience and virtue-- a saint on earth, an angel made flesh-- 

The world is made better for having him in it. Javert saw that firsthand in Montreuil, in the way it thrived in Valjean’s care and withered in his absence. How much more good could he do, if left to do it?

And how much evil would be done by breaking the law for him? Every exception made for a righteous man creates more cracks in the system for vermin like Thenardier to crawl through.  Other righteous men will come along eventually, but they won’t have an infatuated inspector to pay special attention to them, and they and all the good they might have done will be undone without a system in place to protect them.  That  is the good that Javert has devoted himself to upholding. It is  right. It is  just.  He knows this.

And so does Valjean! The man rivals Christ himself in martyrdom. The moment his daughter is taken care of, he would accept the rest of his life sentence without protest. He would march up to the guillotine itself with dignity--

The thought strikes him like a physical blow.

Valjean wouldn't stop him. He would submit to the law, to justice. He would trust the man who loves him to do what is right.

Even if that means killing him.

Javert's back hits a wall. His vision is blurred. He’s dragging in great lungfuls of air but he can’t breathe, his ribs are constricting around his damned traitor heart.


 See, monsieur le secretaire, see how faithfully I have performed my duty! In the name of the law I have carved my heart from my chest and given it to this convict-- see how it trembles in his hands? Once I destroy him there will be nothing left of me, save my devotion to the law. Isn't that righteousness? 


He throws back his head and lets out a hideous, choking laugh. 

It’s been too long.

Javert always takes different routes when he looks in on Cosette, to avoid being followed, but it’s never taken more than an hour before. 

It’s been two, and he isn’t back yet.

Valjean paces the entryway. He checks each of the windows one more time. Still no sign of him. No sight. Nothing at all.

Maybe he’s left. Maybe two confessions of murder have shattered this thing between them. Valjean would pick up the pieces and try to fit them back together until they’re dust, but Javert has every right to turn away from the jagged edges before they do him any greater harm. That is his right. And if he says the word, Valjean swears he will pursue it no further.

But he  hasn’t , not outright. 

And for all his talk of misery and failure, he would not abandon this case so completely. He would not walk away from his duty.

Not of his own volition.

Not unless something happened to him.

He’s struck again by the vision of before: Javert bound and drugged, his pulse weak, his blood pooling on the cobblestones at his feet.

How much blood can a man lose in two hours?

He makes for the door, then stops himself. If Javert isn’t hurt-- if he’s simply delayed by some mundanity-- then he’ll come back here, and he’ll find the flat empty, and he’ll set out looking for him in turn. They might miss each other for hours.

He rushes to the desk and scribbles a hasty note.


 The time is 1:52 in the afternoon and you haven’t returned. I’m going to look for you. If you make it here before I do, stay here and wait for me. I won’t be long. 



 Please be safe. 


He prays that will be enough. 

He rushes out, ignoring the way the early afternoon sun stings his eyes and burns at his face. The streets are thick with people. He scans every head that rises above the crowd, looks twice at every tophat, but nothing. Javert’s routes are circuitous, but they all converge on the Rue Plumet, and so he makes his way in that direction, and all the way he counts footfalls, asks himself how they correspond to heartbeats-- how much time would Javert have, had he been caught? 

And what of Cosette? The closer he comes to her, the greater the chance that she, too, has been caught. Was he wrong to trust Marius with her whereabouts? Were his friends members of Thenardier’s gang? Has he killed her with his complacency?

He gasps in a breath. Stops.

Inhales again.

Javert. His scent is faint, but it’s undeniable and it’s  here . 

Damn it all, how long has it been since he’s remembered to breathe?

He looks around, marks the direction of the wind, takes in another heady draught of air, and then takes off after the scent, ignoring the odors of horses and strangers and flowers that distract from his goal. 

He’s here. He’s alright. Maybe he got caught up in something else-- maybe he ran into one of the officers who thought him dead, or he witnessed a crime and had to intervene. No matter. Nothing matters at all except that he’s safe and Cosette is safe and everything is going to be alright.

He turns a corner onto an alley. It should be stronger now, he thinks faintly. This alley is nearly empty, save for some laundry hanging from a line between two windows. There are fewer scents to distract from Javert’s, but even so it’s faint. Faded.

Old.

There is a man at the end of the alley, tall and thin as a spider. His hair hangs in long tendrils about his face. 

His clothes fit badly, made for a broader man than himself. On his hands are gloves-- winter gloves, far too warm for the summer heat. But the sun bakes the leather and fleece and releases the scent of its previous owner into the air. 

Javert confessed to losing those gloves, miserably, as if in doing so he’d delivered a grievous insult. As if they hadn’t been taken by force while he hung, bound and bleeding, robbed in one final insult by his would-be murderer. 

Thenardier looks up at him with an eager grin. 

“I was wondering when you’d show,” he says, and spreads his arms in invitation. “Alms for the poor?”

What should have been relief freezes in Valjean’s veins. He advances, unthinking, past hanging bedsheets that smell like dust and Javert.

“You.” 

“What? Were you expecting someone else?” He twists his wrists with a flourish, and cackles when Valjean’s eyes follow the gloves. “Like these, do you? Got ‘em off a copper. Tall fellow, long hair, face like a dog. Didn’t bite like a dog, though, did he? I hear you were the one doing that part.”

Red blurs at the edges of Valjean’s vision. There’s a roaring in his ears, like he’s wading through a rushing river-- it feels like it, too, his limbs dragging behind him. He wants to speak, but he has no words, and he can’t get any air through the cloying stench of roses.

“I bet he looked a real treat to you, didn’t he? All trussed up like a roast chicken."

It doesn’t matter that he can't breathe. He doesn’t need to. 

"Tell me-- I’ve been dying to know-- which tasted better? His blood or his cock?” 

He’ll kill him. 

“Oh, did I hit a nerve?” Thenardier dances further away from him, impossibly fast. Or has everything else just slowed down? He pantomimes remorse and keeps moving past a-- a thicket? In an alley? Where did all those brambles come from? “Don’t be cross with me-- ha!-- I know you were meaning to drink that one in bits. Stretch him out, make him last, the way you do all the others. Didn’t like me popping the cork like that, did you? But never you mind, you've got plenty more where he came from. I’m sure the lark still has plenty of juice in her!”

Valjean lunges, but his feet tangle in a mass of thorns. He tries to pull himself out, but the thorns snag in his skin like serpent’s fangs, each one with a dose of venom. He reels back and gasps as his shoulder strikes something hard jutting out of the wall. His skin blisters and burns through his clothes. 

The alley wall is only a few inches from him, but it’s shrouded in a thick red fog. He can barely make out the dozens of crosses nailed into the mortar. 

He tries to hold on to his fury, but it seeps between his fingers as surely as his strength. Even Thenardier's gloating seems to come from far away.

“See, I figured out my mistake.” Thenardier dances through the thicket of butchered roses like they’re nothing. “Mother always told me I ought to take my time. That it’s the waiting that makes you really savor something. Old bitch was an idiot about that, too-- never should have listened to her, should I? Savoring, anticipation, that’s all just piss they peddle to the likes of us so we’ll shut up about being hungry.” He grabs Valjean by the beard and forces him to look up. Something glints in his other hand, barely visible through the fog. “Real satisfaction only comes after.”

I'm pretty sure half the document for this fic is now rewrites of this one chapter. I didn't think I'd make it.

We're coming up on the end, though. Can I get it done in one chapter or will it take two? Can I get it written in seven days? I guess we'll find out next week.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert isn’t conscious of how long he spent in that alley, talking himself in circles and drafting endless letters and conversations to shades of authority inside his head. But at some point something changes– maybe he’s been attuned to a scent, maybe he heard the slightly uneven rhythm of those footsteps, maybe he’s galvanized to that presence– maybe it’s mere coincidence that he looks up to see Valjean striding across the mouth of the alley. He’s moving so fast that he crosses the space in less than a breath, but it’s enough for Javert to catch the look of distress etched in his face, in the hunch of his shoulders, in the tightness of his fists against his sides. Another attack of nerves has come upon him. 

Javert tries to call out to him, but his voice is lodged in his throat. Before he has the chance to clear it and try again, Valjean is gone. 

Javert drags himself out of the alley. He’s only a few blocks from the flat, but it feels like he’s run miles. He only just catches Valjean in the crowd, moving quickly toward the Rue Plumet address.

There’s only one reason for his panic: something’s happened to Cosette. But how would he even know that, halfway across the city? It isn’t as though he could hear her from so far away if she cried for help.

 You were supposed to be his warning, you imbecile,  snaps the voice of reason inside his mind.  You said you were going to check on her safety, and where have you been? Sobbing like a brat in the gutter.  

Now he has reason to believe she’s hurt, and he’s thrown safety aside. They’ve deliberately steered his prescribed routes away from the Rue Plumet– now that he’s deviated from those, there won’t be any police stationed along his path to keep him safe. 

What if he’s followed? He’ll lead the Patron-Minette directly to Cosette. He must stop– Valjean will never forgive himself if he puts her in any more danger. 

Javert redoubles his pace, but the crowds are thick. Even shoving his way through he can barely keep up. 

He’s drawing too much attention to himself– if he keeps on like this, he’ll reveal that he’s survived and his advantage will be lost–

To hell with it!God damn him and his elements of surprise. 

“Monsieur Fauchelevant!” He’s winded and hoarse, and the reedy syllables are subsumed into the crowd. Valjean doesn’t look up. “Monsieur! Ultime!” 

He’s louder this time, but still it earns him nothing. 

And why should it? He’s practically a hermit– he never leaves his home except for sustenance, he keeps no company apart from his daughter and her housekeeper and Javert himself. No one could have called him that name enough for it to feel familiar to him. 

There is one name he would answer to, spoken from Javert’s lips. But out here? In public? That would be tantamount to an accusation. It would be a betrayal.


 You’ve betrayed him a thousand times before this morning. How is this any different?  



 He’s already doomed to the bagne because of you. Do you really think protecting his name will save him?  



 At least you can safeguard the girl. His name is more than worth that.  



 He’ll forgive you that, at least. 


He raises his voice and calls out– too soft, too tender, but he doesn’t know any other way to say it: “Jean.”

Valjean stops as though electrified, and Javert’s heart squeezes in his chest. He heard. Valjean looks wildly around, his face raised to the harsh rays of the sun– there are the beginnings of burns there– and Javert recognizes the motions of scenting the air. And then, decisive, he turns to the side and disappears down an alley.

But that can’t be right. The wind is blowing against one side of Javert’s face. He isn’t entirely downwind of Valjean, but enough so to make smelling him difficult, surely. And he’s going the wrong way. 

Javert pushes his way after him. The alley is difficult to see from the street: its mouth has been nearly choked with crates and barrels stacked one on top of another, and just behind them a set of bedsheets hang from a washing line between two windows like the curtains before a stage, flapping in the wind. An odd blue splotch on one sheet catches his eye: a patch of darning in one corner, the same shade as a policeman’s uniform. He knows that darning. He did it himself when the threadbare sheet tore through; the only thread he had on hand was the one he typically used to repair his uniform, and so the color was incorrect and obvious. Unprofessional, but at the time he’d thought no one would see except himself and his laundress. Even his laundress hadn’t seen them in far too long; with all the extra hours he’d spent guarding Valjean’s home before the attack, he’d barely had time to sleep in his bed, let alone change the bedding. It must have been pungent by the time it was stolen from his flat. 

A chill crawls down his spine.

Valjean followed a scent into the alley.

Javert takes a deep breath of his own, but all he can smell is roses. 

He steps past the crates and the curtain of his stolen bedsheets, and he finds himself looking at what must be every rose bush in France. Some of them are naked canes scattered on the cobblestones, some are entire bushes with roots still crusted with dirt. They’ve been here long enough that all of them are dripping petals, pink and white and yellow and spilt-blood red. Past the crates, every square inch of the alley wall is covered in crosses and rosaries. 

And there– there is Valjean, slumped against one of those walls, his limbs tangled in rose canes. Before him– wearing Javert’s clothes–  wearing Javert’s gloves! – is Thenardier himself. He crouches low and grabs Valjean’s face, forcing him to look him in the eye as he brandishes a knife.

There’s a crack like a bone snapping, like thunder, echoing back and forth between the tight walls of the alley. Javert is only half-aware of the making the decision to fire-- only that the pistol is in his grip, smoke rising from the barrel, power hot on his hand. 

Thenardier leaps upright. The shot didn’t hit him-- Javert wouldn’t dare to aim directly at him, not from this distance, not with Valjean right there, not as inaccurate as these damned pistols are-- but it’s done its job. The murder is interrupted. There’s shouting coming from the streets beyond, and it’ll be just a matter of time before the police come to investigate.

“Ah, inspector,” Thenardier says, an oily grin sliding across his face. “How good it is to see you alive-- you  are alive, aren’t you?”

In place of an answer, Javert draws the other pistol and levels it on him, advancing slowly. 

Thenardier continues. “I wouldn’t think you’d come in here if you were all cold and bitey, but that hardly stopped this one.” He delivers a brutal kick to Valjean’s side.  

Javert’s finger twitches on the trigger, but sheer force of will restrains him. Chabouillet only supplied him with the standard brace of pistols. Once this second bullet is fired, he’ll need to stop and reload before he can shoot another-- and that will give Thenardier all the time he needs to kill Valjean and escape. 

Or– if he sees no chance to escape, he might just kill Valjean anyway. 

“It’s a pity, inspector. All those pretty words about putting the bloodsucker away. The way you spun it, you had me thinking you actually  believed in something-- right and justice and all that shit. But here you are thinking with your cock, no better than the rest of us gutter trash.” 

A chill washes through him. Valjean is right there at Thenardier’s feet, listening to all of this.

So what’s the point of denying it?

“You’re the one who went against the plan, Thenardier.” Every word tastes like poison on his tongue. “I have the evidence I need to arrest him. He would be in prison already if not for your histrionics.”

“Prison!” Thenardier spits. “Prison is too good for the likes of him. He should be dead!”

“Is that really what you want for him?” Javert advances another few steps, crushing rose canes under his boots. He needs Thenardier’s attention on what he’s saying– away from Valjean, and away from the distance between them. “A quick end and an eternal rest? We could send him back to the bagne for life, you and I. What does a life sentence look like for a vampire-- is it true they live for hundreds of years, like the horror stories say? Centuries of toil in Hell on earth, with no hope of escape, no hope of seeing his daughter again. No fate could be crueler. Would you really be satisfied to simply kill him?”

Thenardier sneers. “You don’t have the stomach for it.”

“Have I ever hesitated before?”

“You weren’t fucking the others, were you?”

Javert jerks his head to Valjean. “He’s heard every word I’ve said. Do you really think that’s going to continue?”

Thenardier’s eyes fall to Valjean’s face. Javert doesn’t want to imagine what he sees there, but when he looks up, Theanardier is wearing an expression of glee. “No, I don’t think it will.” He leans in and pats Valjean’s cheek. “You shoulda seen him earlier, inspector. Came running when he caught a whiff of you, all sparkle-eyed and such. Almost enough to make a man think he had some kinda feelings for you. It’s almost enough to make a man pity the old leech.” He tries to put on a simper, but his grin is too wide and far too sharp. “So why don’t I do the kind thing and put him out of his misery?” 

The knife glints on its way to Valjean's throat. Thenardier’s entire body twists with the force of the slash-- and then keeps twisting, carried along its arc by the force of a bullet through his chest. This close there’s no missing his target-- this close the bullet bursts through him and lodges in the wall between two crosses, the whole array splashed with blood.

Thenardier’s body lies contorted in an unnatural shape, sprawled across a bed of thorns, the knife still clutched in his grip.

Valjean, too, is on the ground, but Javert can’t bring himself to touch him. 

Somewhere in the distance there’s shouting and the pounding of boots on cobblestones. 

“In here,” he calls. The police rush onto the scene, but everything feels distorted and blurred. Several are descending on Thenardier’s body, others are looking too closely at Valjean. “Get him out of here. He needs air.” 

He only dares a single glance at Valjean as they haul him away. There’s a splatter of blood across his clothes, but none of it seems to be his own. Alive, then. Good. He doesn’t get a second look before the officers in charge demand to know what the hell is going on, and his attention is forced away. Presenting an official report is nearly second nature to him. It requires no thought or feeling, and he gives it without hesitation.

Thenardier lured Monsieur Fauchelevant off his predetermined route and attacked him. Javert fired a warning shot, and when that failed to dissuade Thenardier from further violence, a second killing blow. 

“What about him?” one of the officers says, indicating Valjean. “He looks like he might’ve got hit on the head.”

It’s true; Valjean hasn’t moved from the side of the street where the other officers brought him. He hasn’t moved at all. Javert isn’t sure if it’s the proximity to the holy symbols or lingering injury or--

Javert summons a fiacre and has them help Valjean inside. Javert gives the driver the address and then steps inside, shuttering the windows to block out the sun before he sits beside Valjean. 

Valjean still hasn’t looked at him, nor has he looked away. His eyes are unfocused, his expression slack, his entire body slouched. 

Javert remembers all too well a different ride, the last time Valjean had been prized from Thenardier’s clutches. He’d been nearly insensate then, too, though with tremendous force of will he’d managed to slur out a few words at a time. Even if Javert could drag words out of him now, he won’t try. He’d like to believe it’s out of compassion for the other man, but truly it’s cowardice. 

He has some faint hope that Valjean’s condition will improve when they put some distance between themselves and the alley, but after two blocks there is no significant change.

He only knows of three things that have proved to revive him. There is his daughter, but she will be distressed and disturbed to find her father in this state. There has been his past success with physical affection– but the thought of trying to kiss Valjean back into lucidity makes his stomach twist. That leaves only one practical option.

Javert takes off his coat and unbuttons his cuff, baring his arm to the elbow and holding it out in offering. Valjean merely looks at it, though it's anyone's guess if he's even registered that it's there.

Very well.

Javert draws a knife from his pocket– Thenardier’s, it seems, picked up as evidence sometime during the report, though he can’t remember doing it anymore. The scant light that seeps into the carriage glints off the blade, and Valjean draws a harsh breath. 

“Wait,” he croaks. It’s obvious how much effort that one syllable costs him. “Stop, Javert–”

Before he can reach out, Javert brings the blade down across his forearm. The pain is sharp and abrupt, but he’s endured worse. Already braced for it, he doesn’t allow himself to react. Instead Valjean makes a small wounded sound, as if the knife had pierced him instead. 

“You went too long without feeding even before all this,” Javert says, cold and to the point. He holds out his arm. “You need to regain your strength.”

Valjean shakes his head.

“You can’t go back to your home in the state you’re in.” Javert presses. “Cosette will be worried enough without you looking half dead."

The sound of her name brings a fraction more clarity into his eyes. Beneath it is something else.

Javert remembers the story Valjean told of when he first turned– of that feral hunger that consumed him when he was first turned, when he devoured his fellow inmate completely.

A bead of blood trickles down the side of his arm. Valjean’s murky eyes follow its path. 

“Well? Go on, then.” 

Valjean does not protest again. He grabs Javert’s arm in an iron grip and pulls it close, descending on the wound with thoughtless need. His tongue drags over the path of that errant drop before his lips latch over the cut and he sucks, hard enough to leave bruises in his wake. Javert nearly touches Valjean’s shoulder, but he stops himself in time and braces himself against the carriage wall instead. 

It’s meaningless, he tells himself. Little more than a medical transfusion. No more intimate than purchasing bread from the baker. He’s simply attending to the necessity of the case.

That’s all.

It’s nothing like the last time– it  cannot be anything like last time– because Valjean could not possibly share such tenderness with him again. Not anymore. Not once the fog has lifted from his mind. But he has accepted rations and medical attention from his jailers before, and so that much Javert will allow himself to offer. No more than that. 

Valjean’s drinking slows as the fiacre does. Javert feels that soft tongue lap instinctively over the wound to close it, and finally he pulls his face away, breathing hard. 

Javert offers him a handkerchief with his free hand. It’s no favor; that square of cloth was Valjean’s to begin with. He takes it without protest and wipes the errant smears of blood from his face. There’s more animation to his movements, but there is still something distant and murky behind them. He looks up, but Javert avoids his eyes, rising to get the door. His chest feels too tight as he watches Valjean descend to the cobblestones before Number 55, Rue Plumet. Up ahead, the iron gate is already being shoved open by a frantic Cosette. Of course she was watching.

"Papa?" she cries, rushing to his side. "Papa, are you hurt? Monsieur Javert, what's happened to him?"

"The blood is not his own," Javert says woodenly. His fingers ache with the need to reach for him. "But he's suffered a shock. He'll need rest and care before he fully regains himself."

"Yes, that much is clear," Cosette says, and there's an edge of ferocity in her gaze when she looks up at him. "But you haven't answered my question. What's happened to him?"

"The plan was successful. Thenardier is dead." He turns back to the fiacre. "I leave him in your care, mademoiselle."

"Wait," Cosette starts. "Where are you going?"

"I am needed at the prefecture. I expect the closing of this case to keep me occupied for several days at least. You will not see me again before then." He does not look back. "Take care of him."

And then he shuts the carriage door and knocks on the wall, signaling the driver to leave Valjean and his daughter behind. 

He does not look back.

He doesn’t.

Not even once.

The chapters just keep coming, apparently?

This last chapter has been a real struggle to write, but it's done. And posted a little early, just because I can.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



The fog has not fully lifted from around Valjean when Cosette shepherds him into the house, but he is vaguely aware of the fiacre speeding away, and Javert still inside it. That is… unexpected. Wrong, for reasons he can’t put into words. But Cosette doesn’t remark on it, and so his attention drifts to the more immediate concern. She is fretting over him, eases him into an armchair and takes his hands in her own.



“Papa, you’re freezing,” she says, and lays a kiss on his knuckles.



“It’s nothing,” he replies automatically. “You know I always run cold.” The words actually come at his command, but they’re still faint and slurred, and Cosette looks far from comforted. 



“Well, we’ll have Toussaint make you some tea to warm you anyway, alright? For my peace of mind.” 



He manages a smile. “Of course, my dear.” 




--no hope of seeing his daughter again--




The words tumble in his brain, unconnected to anything, but they carry a sting of fear. Javert said that, didn’t he? Not so long ago. It was important that he not forget it.



Cosette spreads a blanket over his lap, and he startles.



“It’s alright, Papa,” she murmurs, smoothing his hair. “I’m going to fetch you some clean clothes, and then I’ll be back. I won’t be gone long at all, and Toussaint is just over in the kitchen, and she’ll hear you if you need anything.” She kisses his brow, and then she’s gone. 



His memories are scattered and disjointed, and he can't make sense of them. He tries to grasp at them, but they slip through his fingers like mist, leaving only impressions in their wake.



There is blood on his tongue-- Javert's blood-- did he attack him?-- he was so far beyond himself, he might have, he could have, he'll never forgive himself if he did-- 



But Thenardier's blood is on his clothes. There was a gunshot, and a body, and blood in the air but he didn't take it, didn't want it-- there was something else he was trying to focus on instead, something he needed to remember--



There was Javert in front of him, baring an arm, cutting deep when Valjean didn't take it, until his own blood spilled across his skin and it had to stop, he had to stop the bleeding, had to seal the wound before Javert-- before he hung from an iron grate, cold and still and-- no, no, that was before-- Javert in his arms, hard and clinging, begging, moaning, his body hot and tight around him, his sweat spiced with desire, his blood sweet with it--



No, that isn't right, that was 

before

. The blood in his mouth is bitter from prolonged stress, sour with recent fear. Javert was afraid. He was-- they were alone together, in the fiacre, and Javert's arm was bare-- he was afraid but he was cold, curt, distant, and Valjean wasn't surprised by that, was surprised instead by the offered arm, because--



Valjean's head is pounding.



Because of something Javert said, in the alley. Not to him-- to Thenardier. And that was wrong. The way they spoke to each other was wrong, too familiar, too at ease with one another. They were speaking of-- of a plan. And prison. And Valjean. 




We could send him back to the bagne for life, you and I.




Those were Javert’s words, but Valjean remembers Thenardier’s face splitting into a wide, oily grin. 



It was a trick. It had to have been a trick. Because what followed was a gunshot and Thenardier’s blood in the air and men in uniform dragging Valjean out of the deepest part of the fog, and a knife and blood and---



The pain in his head is unbearable, and he hides his face in his hands. 



“Papa!” There’s a rustle of fabric being cast aside, and Cosette is at his side once more. “Papa, what is it? Where are you hurt?”



“It’s nothing, Cosette,” he rasps. “Only a headache, that’s all.” 



“Only!” Despite her incredulity, her voice is low. “Papa, I’ve never heard you complain of a headache before. This one must be agony. Toussaint,” she says, looking past him to the door. “Thank you for the tea, Toussaint-- please, can you cover the windows? The light can’t be doing you any kindness, Papa.” 



While Toussaint is occupied, Cosette pours a cup of tea and presses it into his hands. The porcelain is warm under his fingers while he nurses the cup, and with each sip he washes a bit more of Javert’s blood from his mouth. 



He can’t make sense of Javert’s behavior, but that’s no matter. Javert will be back soon, and he will explain, and everything will make sense once more.



The end of Thenardier’s case calls for disturbingly little paperwork. He was already tried and found guilty; he was slated for the guillotine, with no hope of appeal or parole; he had already been witnessed committing violent crimes in the past; and so nobody questions that Javert killed him in broad daylight. And that’s fine enough for a vile creature like Thenardier– he knows firsthand how much Thenardier deserved what he got– but he’s all too aware that on paper he’s no different from Valjean. 



Javert– or any officer of the law with more excitement than restraint– could have just as easily put a bullet in Valjean, and there would have been no recourse. No inquiry. He would have been dead, his daughter left alone to mourn him, and no judge would have said more than ‘good riddance’. 



He looks through Valjean’s case file again, compares it to Theanardier’s. The similarity between the two leaves him unsettled. There is no mention at all of Valjean’s obsessive almsgiving. His saving Fauchelevant’s life is only included as evidence of his strength. The report of the initial robbery cites a broken windowpane and the stolen bread, but fails to include the dying child that motivated the crime.



Cosette is mentioned twice. The first time as part of a lead, suggesting that Valjean might be heading to Montfermeil. The second in his report on Valjean’s flight from the Gorbeau house, mistakenly identifying her as a bundle of stolen goods. Neither mention bothers to name her. She is the light of his life, the shining sun around which orbits his entire world, and she is barely a footnote. 



His prison record includes four escape attempts and the subsequent extension of each sentence. There are no notes of how often he was whipped, or for what infractions. No mention is made of the extended infirmary stay after he was turned, or of the man who died in the infirmary beside him.



Of Digne, there is barely a scrap, indicating that he was found with stolen goods, but that the victim declined to press charges. 




I was paid less than other men for my labors, when I was paid at all-- and so I could afford no place to sleep that might shelter me from the sun, no mortal food to ease the ache of not feeding. I was starving, near frenzied, beyond hope or reason.

 



The paper trembles in his grip. Javert throws the file down, clenches his hands into fists to stop the shaking.




He would be in prison already if not for your histrionics.




As soon as he gets his body under control, he shoves Valjean’s file into a drawer. He gathers the Thenardier casefile, sets it into proper order, and trudges to Chabouillet’s office to deliver the final report.



It’s been three days now. Valjean isn’t yet at his full strength-- clearly Thenardier took no shortcuts in preparing that trap of his-- but he can think clearly enough to piece together what fragments he’s able to recall. 



The picture it forms is grim.



There was a shared plan between Thenardier and Javert. Talk of evidence, of returning him to Toulon. Of never seeing Cosette again. 



There are pieces that don’t seem to fit with the rest. There is a part of him that is sure Javert could explain it, if he would only come-- but in three days there has been no sign of him, not even a letter with instruction.



But Valjean knew that already.




I expect the closing of this case to keep me occupied for several days at least. You will not see me again before then.




As soon as he is able to walk steadily, he meets with a lawyer. The house on Rue Plumet is already in Cosette’s name, as are all the things inside it. A good deal of the money is set aside in a trust, along with thorough documentation of its providence-- but there is too great a chance that it will be confiscated as stolen goods, regardless. The rest he buries in discreet places outside the city. He writes down meticulous instructions to find each cache, seals each letter in an envelope, and presents each one to a different lawyer to give to her at a future date-- a month from today, six months, a year. Even if any one of them is faithless, the rest will surely see to it that she is taken care of.



He considers, briefly, gathering the money and fleeing Paris altogether. It would be a small matter to persuade Cosette to leave with him, when she is already so worried for him. She might agree that a change of scenery would do him well. But she would want to send word to Marius, and Javert will know to watch him. There may be ways of hiding their tracks, but he can barely entertain the thought before it leaves him exhausted.



He is tired of running. Tired of hiding. Tired of starving himself while he seeks out discreet new contacts to supply him with blood. Tired of isolating himself to evade capture. 



For those precious few weeks he had Javert and Cosette. Now Cosette is in love and courting, and Javert--



Those weeks were enough. 



He will not ask for more.



The secretary seems to find no error in his conduct. There is no reprimand for killing the other man. Merely a satisfied nod. 



“Then we can put this unpleasant business behind us,” he says. “I for one will be happy enough never to think of such things again. Unless–” He lowers his voice and leans in slightly. “You uncovered anything noteworthy during your stay with Monsieur Fauchelevant?”




I have found the evidence that you require.




The words are right there, rehearsed until they’re rote. 




I know precisely what it is and where it is to be found. I need only retrieve it. In order to do so I will need to take time away from Paris--




The law is clear. It leaves no room for hesitation or doubt (

or clemency, or mercy

). The crime has been committed (

the motives are cast aside

), the evidence is documented (

the circumstances are ignored

). The only mercy Valjean could possibly receive is a life sentence in place of execution. 




Centuries of toil in Hell on earth, with no hope of escape, no hope of seeing his daughter again. No fate could be crueler. 




“Only the extent to which I was mistaken,” Javert says flatly. “It is as you said, Monsieur. Jean Valjean died years ago.” His mouth tastes like ashes. 



“Mhm.” Chabouillet sits back, looking almost disappointed. “As I expected. Wouldn’t that have been the turn of events, though?”



“Indeed.” Javert forces a breath. “You were correct that in my pursuit of the matter I disgraced my uniform and myself. And for that reason, I believe it is appropriate that I should resign.”



Chabouillet starts. “Resign!”



Javert averts his gaze. “I have allowed this… fixation of mine to cloud my judgment. I no longer trust my instincts as I once did.”



He doesn’t dare wonder how many case files are as obscenely incomplete as Valjean’s. How many of the people he’s sent to prison with no hope of actual justice.



The better question might be whether he’s acted justly to any of them at all.



Chabouillet is starting to rise from his chair. “You cannot seriously think I will accept your resignation!”



“I’m afraid, monsieur le secretaire, that the matter is not up for debate.”



“No,” Chabouillet says. “It’s clear to me that you’re still out of sorts from the ordeal of this case. You will be granted a leave of absence. Once you have recovered your senses, I expect to see you back at your post. Is that understood?”



It is a conditional relief from his duties, but at least it’s something. Without a definite end point, it might as well be permanent. 



He bows stiffly. “Very well.”



He has lied enough in these past months.


What's one more?


It’s been three days since Javert left Valjean at the Rue Plumet house and sped away. It unsettles something in him. There has always been a pattern to him, learned while escaping Toulon and carried over for the rest of his life: lay the foundations constantly and in times of quiet, hide away resources and escape routes like a squirrel securing its cache– and then when the opportunity arises or the danger rears its head, be prepared to act without haste or hesitation. 



His anxiety served him well, all those years, keeping him coiled tight, always ready to spring to action.



In deciding not to flee from Javert any longer, he thought he was choosing to rest. Instead that tension keeps coiling within him with no place to go. The arrangements are all made. He doesn’t dare relax, doesn’t dare to start anything, because he knows Javert will be here at any moment. He is merely waiting. Interminably, waiting. 



And so he decides to act.



It’s better this way– no officers arriving at his door for Cosette to see, no letters of summons for her to intercept. He tidies his cottage, pens a letter to Cosette and sets it on his bed for her to find-- under the pillow, so it won’t be uncovered until Toussaint launders the sheets, long after Cosette will have any opportunity to stop him-- and makes his way to the prefecture. 



He expects Javert to be waiting for him, but he doesn’t see him among the crowd. The scent of him is difficult to pick out from the rest, muted with distance and time. 



“Monsieur Fauchelevant!” Chabouillet steps out of what must be his office and greets him with a mild wave. He looks slightly harried, but surprisingly genial for a superior of the police force come face to face with an escaped convict. “It is good to see you recovered-- I was told your ordeal had left you out of sorts.” 



Either he is a profound actor, or he genuinely has no suspicions toward him.  



“Yes, thank you,” Valjean says carefully. “Forgive me, I was looking for Inspector Javert, but I can’t seem to find him. Has he resumed his regular patrols?” 



A strange look crosses Chabouillet’s face. “Why? Did he say something to you?” 



“He gave the impression that he wanted to speak to me.” 



“God have mercy,” Chabouillet mutters, but forces a good-natured smile. “For your own sake, Monsieur, I implore you to put that out of your mind. I’m afraid Javert hasn’t been himself lately.”



“No?”



“Recent events seem to have taken a toll on him– understandably, of course. He’s taken a leave of absence while he regains himself.” 



Unease prickles down Valjean’s spine. “Has he?”



“Between you and me--” Chabouillet lowers his voice. “He intended to resign, but I talked him out of it. Ah, I can see you know how strange such a thing is for him! So I hope you understand if I request you not hold any eccentric behavior against him for the time being.”



“Of course, Monsieur le secretaire.” 



But Javert was going to arrest him.



He was going to arrest him.



He was–




You could have stripped me of duty and authority. I would have been powerless to hurt you.




He forces his expression into a look of mild concern. “I must ask, when did he make that request?” 



“A few hours ago, just after he closed the Thenardier case. But don’t you worry. I’m certain that in a few weeks he’ll be back to his old self.”



Javert doesn’t bother returning to his flat. There’s no point, no sentimentality bound up in that place. It was empty of all but the most practical possessions to begin with, and Thenardier and his accomplices have emptied it completely. The only things taking up space there now are the clothes Valjean purchased for him, and those aren’t even properly his own. He wouldn’t have collected them from Valjean’s flat at all, except that he suspects they would serve as an unwelcome reminder the next time Valjean returns to that place. 




If 

he returns.



After what he witnessed, there’s a good chance he’s already left Paris to find shelter in some more welcoming country. It’s what he should have done long ago. What he would have done, if not for Javert’s interference. 



There will be no more of that. Not anymore.



He lets his feet lead him through the city, correcting the course only when they steer him too close to the Rue de l’Homme Armé or the Rue Plumet. 



There will be no more of that, either. 



He’s lost that right.



But he has found the Seine.



Valjean bursts out onto the street, sniffing the air like a bloodhound. The streets are swimming with people and their scents, but almost none are so familiar to him as Javert. He finds the layers of his scent there– three days of arriving at the precinct and leaving it again, stacked one over the other through time, reinforcing the path. He would follow it now, but a fresher trail heads elsewhere. 



Javert was going to arrest him. He was so sure Javert was going to arrest him. But if he was wrong–



Something changed before the alley.



That strange light in Javert’s eyes. The way he seemed caught between clinging to Valjean and fleeing from him. 




I have faith in you, 

answered with

 You shouldn’t. 




That bitter tang to his blood– the evidence of stress coursing through his veins for far too long. A knife carving without mercy or hesitation through tender flesh. 




You should have cast me out.




The trail keeps veering slowly toward the Rue Plumet and sharply away again. The path is unsteady, irregular, hesitant in a way Javert has never been. It crosses itself and he ignores the earlier trail in favor of the more recent one, hopefully shaving some time off his search. 



He tries to tell himself that he’s being absurd. That this awful, gnawing fear is just a new face on old anxiety. He’s jumping at shadows, that’s all, the way he was preparing for an invasion when he caught Marius’ scent in the garden. That’s all it is, he tells himself, and prays to God that it’s true. 



Dusk falls over Paris. The flow of people slows to a trickle, and then to barely anything at all. Javert watches a lamplighter make their way across another bridge down the Seine, their progress marked by the glow of streetlights left in their wake.



It should happen before they reach the Pont-au-Change. It seems almost crass to do it under those lamps, as if he’s an actor playing a role.



He’s done enough playacting lately.



He removes his hat and sets it on the stones at his feet. The gloaming sky is dim, and the stars are barely visible through it. Just as well that they should turn away from him in this. 



“Javert?” 



Every muscle in his body goes tense. 



No. No. Valjean shouldn’t be here. He shouldn’t see this. Not this. Not now. 



“Javert,” he repeats. Valjean is on the edge of the bridge, moving slowly, carefully, like he’s approaching a wild beast. “I’ve been searching for you.”



“And now that your task is accomplished, you can be on your way again.”



Valjean does not leave. Javert ought to find that infuriating. 



“And where will you go, Javert?” 



“Not to the prefecture, if that’s your concern.” His knuckles whiten as he grips the stone. “There’s no need to remain on the lookout for me. I’m no longer a danger to you and your daughter.” 



From the edge of his vision he sees Valjean shift. A less gentle man might have recoiled-- or lashed out. There’s a wild, animal part of Javert that wants to see it, just to erase those last scraps of patience and compassion from Valjean’s face when he looks at him.



“I was, you know.” He turns on Valjean, hunched forward like a wolf. 



“I am aware of that.”



“Are you?” Javert demands. “You remember, then, that I am a police spy. Everything that’s happened between– every moment– was an act. I played the part of a man you might be able to love so that you might-- so you would let your guard down, so you would invite the wolf inside like I was another one of your strays. And all the while I searched for evidence against you. Every moment I worked against you.”



Valjean’s expression doesn’t shift. He doesn’t shy away from Javert’s gaze, and that makes it somehow worse. 



 “Did you never ask yourself why Thenardier attacked me?” Javert raises his voice, his lips pulled back into a snarl. “How he knew that you cared for me? He was my informant! We’d been trading information about you, he and I. He was displeased that I hadn’t killed you yet.” 



“Why didn’t you?” Valjean asks in what would be a reasonable tone, if not for the unreasonable question. “You had ample opportunity, and clearly you had instruction.”



“Damn it all, I was never out for your death-- I only ever meant to arrest you! Only bring you to justice!”



“Yes,” Valjean says. “I recall you saying something to that effect.”



“Then what the devil are you doing here?” 



He holds out his empty hands in offering. “I’ve come to surrender to you.”



Javert recoils, stumbling away until his back hits the stone. “No.”



“Javert--”



“I can’t, don’t you understand?” 



“Step away from there. Please.” Valjean’s voice is soft, beseeching. He hasn’t lowered his hands. His wrists are smooth and perfect and impossibly vulnerable. There are no calluses to protect against the endless chafe of manacles, no scars to deaden the nerves. Every moment wearing those restraints would be as raw and painful as the first. 



“I love you,” Javert spits out. “I’m in love with you, and even so I tried to send you back to the slave hulks. I worked toward it. I repeatedly denounced you to my superiors. I knew what it meant-- I knew what it would do to you-- and I went forward all the same. And if I could do such a thing, willfully, to the man I love-- to a man such as you--” His voice cracks, and he takes a moment to steady it. “It’s depravity. It’s perverse.”



“It’s forgiven.”



Javert makes the mistake of glancing up, and he’s caught in Valjean’s gaze. He tries to cringe away, but he can’t break that stare.



“You forgive too easily.” 



“If forgiveness was a thing that could be deserved, you would have earned it from me already. Time and again you have given me comfort and protection--”



“To trick you, you ninny!” Javert shrieks. “To fool you into giving me your trust!”



“Then why did you urge me to leave? Why did you bring me home to Cosette, instead of directly to a jail cell? Why did you nourish me with your own blood? Why did you give me days unguarded to make my escape?”



A hysterical laugh forces its way from Javert’s throat. “Bah! And some escape it is. Three days’ head start and yet here you are.”



“Here I am.” He reaches out again, nearly close enough to brush Javert’s coat. When did he get so close? “I’m tired of running, Javert. I used that time to settle my affairs. Arrest me, and I will go with you without regret.”



“Arrest you,” Javert repeats with another miserable, choking laugh. “I would rather die.”



“Then do neither. Come away from the water, Javert. Come to me.”



Finally Javert manages to look away. “It was never meant to be like this.”



“Perhaps God feels differently.” 



“I could still hurt you, do you understand? You’ll never be truly safe, so long as I live.”



“I never believed you incapable of doing me harm.” Valjean’s outstretched hand cradles Javert's cheek. “But I have never felt safer than when I am with you.” 



Javert shudders at the touch. He doesn’t deserve such gentle contact, but he can’t bring himself to pull away. “Then you are an imbecile.”



“Perhaps I am.” Valjean’s other hand closes on his shoulder and draws him, tenderly, away from the parapet. “Then I will need you to watch over me.”


And there we are.

Thank you for reading.