Title: What's in a reflection
Work ID: 30840305
Author: Knyaz_Nikolai
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Madeleine Era, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Post-Seine, Javert Lives, Slow Burn, Parallels, Mirrors, Angst, Angst with a Happy Ending, Just a dash of fluff, no betas we die like Javert on the bridge, I'm Bad At Summaries, valvert - Freeform
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1



THE MAYOR



 


Monsieur Madeleine was sitting in his office, his head resting in his hands, fingers wound into thick curls of brown hair. He breathed in slowly and then let the seconds pass till his lungs were burning with such intensity that for a moment he feared he would not draw another breath, that the fire would consume him from the inside. One sharp exhale later made these thoughts go away. And so he continued breathing although it has never been harder than now. Now even in...



His eyelids were pressed together so strongly that he started seeing small white spots appear here and there, shimmering like stars in the darkness that surrounded him. Sitting like this, he could hear the voices outside of his doors and for a moment he remembered that he’s not truly alone. Well, it does not matter. No one was here to witness this sudden display of uneasiness and inexplicable anxiety that overcame the mayor. 



It has been like that for quite some time, recently more often than not. This nervousness and disquiet hitting him like the merciless waves of the ocean that beat on the rocks, slowly washing them away till nothing remains. That’s how he felt every time after these meetings and he feared that one day… One day the wave may just as well crush him and he will drown, pulled down by the cruel current.



Despite that, he knew that it was unavoidable. His weekly meetings with Javert — the man just standing there, straight and rigid as ever, his deep voice enumerating various arrests and disputes that were brought to the police — were a necessary evil but they were taking their toll on him. It was impossible to refuse the inspector and not arouse his suspicion. Not that the man 

wasn’t 

suspicious. When he thought that Madeleine was not looking he gazed at him with something lurking behind his eyes, some terrible watchfulness that threatened to destroy everything Madeleine worked for, everything he had accomplished. The mayor feared those eyes, these glances and their hidden meaning. 



Madeleine sighed for the last time and ran his hands over his face. His fingers traced the lines that started appearing on his face — an unavoidable sign of his age — and his moustache that got too long now. He purposely delayed the trimming since he always did that alone (the mere thought about someone with scissors so close to his throat made him shudder) and it involved looking at himself in the mirror. He pressed his lips together, abandoning these thoughts and standing up. The hour was late, it was time to go home. Hopefully, Javert picked some distant street to patrol and he would not have to see the man again.



As he exited his office he was greeted by polite smiles from the good people of Montreuil-sur-Mer, some well-wishes and polite goodbyes. Like always, he only smiled, albeit stiffly, and went his way, doing what he always did at this hour — giving alms. Not even three minutes into his walk his pockets were already empty. Somehow, as his pockets got lighter so did his heart. It was as if the money he earned (fairly so, even if a certain inspector would never see it that way) was a burden to him, something that should be gotten rid of as fast as possible. He could not know how similar in that aspect he was to the man that changed his life so much after the years of slaving away in Toulon.



He walked in a measured step, reminding himself that he does not have to run, not anymore. He was a respectable citizen now, a magistrate, even! People trusted him and he, in turn, offered them his love and support in any possible way. For example, every time something caught his eyes on a display in one of the shop’s windows he would stop and look for a moment, determining whether or not there is someone in Montreuil that might find themselves in need of a given thing. He never stared for long though, always afraid of his gaze finding his own reflection in the clear surface. How peculiar, that one might find themselves finally safe and yet never stop running away from what’s inside.



Once he arrived, he noticed that the small house was blessedly silent. Closing the door behind him felt as if he was locking himself in a safe house, never to be bothered, never to be found. The walls protected him and what a thought that was, coming from him, for whom the walls were always a sign of misery, associated with a cage from which none could escape (he knew, he tried and he paid his price). Somewhat calmer now (or so he told himself), he directed his steps towards the bedroom. The simple room, almost spartan, so bare in its appearance, was his refuge and a trap of his own design. Here Père Madeleine had to fight every day with the wretch from Toulon. 



There were no mirrors in the room apart from a small one, standing on the table together with the basin, the water jug and his shaving kit. It wasn’t large, quite the contrary — it was no wider than Madeleine’s hand and similar in height. From time to time, the light that fell into the room hit the smooth surface and then a reflection of sunlight could be seen, dancing on the wall above the bed. And sometimes, as the setting sun’s red rays hit the mirror for the second time, a more sinister play was happening on the wall, as the red light and the shadows created shapes that were almost phantasmagorial in their appearance. Madeleine fancied that they were the images of his past, ominous reminders of what has been.



Madeleine looked at the table and the mirror placed there and once again a violent shiver went through his body. He had to keep up the appearances, he reminded himself, he had to look the part (even if on the inside he was crumbling and falling and 

oh, dear God, not again-

). Steeling himself he raised his hands, slowly untying his cravatte, unbuttoning the waistcoat. With every layer he stripped himself of he felt like a knight from the ages past, stripping himself of his armour. It left him… Vulnerable. The scars on his wrists and neck too visible, too easy to spot. He faltered in his movements but ultimately carried on, frowning at his own behaviour. Once he was ready he approached the basin and looked into the mirror with trepidation. 



What he saw was not something he did not 

expect

 to find. Brown, thick curls on his head, lightly peppered with some grey on his temples. Clear shaven cheeks, neck and chin, and the moustache, of course, too long now to be considered proper. Warm, brown eyes with crow’s feet in the corners because it did not matter what kind of life he led before — now he had more reasons to smile. He caught sight of his neck and arms that hid the strength that might have betrayed him not so long ago when he lifted the cart and helped to save poor monsieur Fauchelevent. A shiver went through his body. It was better not to think about that.



He got to work. Both the razor and the scissors were there and so he took the latter and started snipping away the excess of hair. It started falling down onto the table, onto the floor, some of the hair sticking to his white shirt. He paid no attention to that, he wanted to be done as soon as possible. It was almost admirable how he could look into the mirror for just a moment and then avert his gaze but at the same time to cut so evenly, making himself presentable once again. At the same time, another memory assaulted him, one of the rough hands, almost blunt razor and his shorn head when he...  His breathing got faster, the puffs of air that were being released from his nose blew away the falling hair, carrying them further away. By the time he laid down the scissors he was breathing heavily, almost panting. He looked into the mirror once more.



He hated doing this. He hated the fact that even though he looked more like Père Madeleine the face staring at him seemed to be the one of Jean Valjean. He wanted to bury the man, exorcise him from his body just like the bishop exorcised all evil from his soul. But then, every time he saw his reflection he asked himself — did he succeed? Madeleine would never dare to doubt the good bishop, this saint that saved him (both body and soul) but he could not stop seeing Valjean in the mirror. Every time he looked at his reflection he felt as if it was the convict staring back at him with his angry eyes, bitter and broken with so much fury inside that it scared Madeleine. 



He had a new life now. He was the mayor, he had people to take care of, mouths to feed, alms to give. He did not want to be this man anymore. This beast that would snap at the guards, trying to threaten them with his brute strength. This monster who would rob the bishop and take forty sous from a small boy. This person who hated his fellow humans because he never received a kind word or touch from anyone. This pitiful man who cried for his soul and the 19 years he would never get back.



Madeleine shook himself out of this reverie, still looking at the face that was staring at him from the mirror. But he was a coward so, his job done, he looked to the side and put the mirror down.



He was on the run not from the police but from his own past and Jean Valjean.


 



THE INSPECTOR



 


Waking up was hard these days, not that he would know a lot about it, sleeping as long as he did. His normal sleeping schedule, so rigid and unchanging, suddenly did not matter any more as his weakened body and mind could not keep him up for long hours. Thus, the days seemed to blend together, Wednesdays rebelled against the order of things and followed Saturdays, and it was hard to get any sense of time in this place. This 

hell

. Because that’s what Valjean’s house has been for him for the last month and a half.



His plunge into the Seine rendered him unconscious very quickly and yet his memories of the fall seemed to be the clearest, clearer than the flashes of everything that followed. Surprisingly it was the pain in his leg and the strength of the current that hit him first. This terrible force drawing him under, pushing him down, down, down to the depths of hell and oblivion where he belonged. Then there was the cold that seemed to permeate his very spirit, the water seeping into his clothes and making them impossibly heavy. It was terrible and terrifying but there was silence there, his thoughts were free of Valjean and of his thrice accursed mercy. There Javert allowed himself to draw a breath without the crashing feeling of guilt. He allowed the water to fill his lungs and was glad it was not the doubt that suffocated him. 



Everything after that became hazy like a dream, a nightmare, really. He remembered some distant voices, the softness of the mattress, his own wheezing breaths, the burning pain in his leg, the bitter taste of medicine on his tongue and then the darkness that reigned. Every time he opened his eyes he felt more disoriented than before. Sometimes the sun bathed the room in its warm light, too sharp for his eyes. Sometimes the pale light of the moon fell onto the figure of Valjean, sleeping in his chair, making his white curls seem like a halo around his head. This image burned itself into his mind, strange, unwanted and frightening in its implications. 



It was weeks before he came to understand the reality of his predicament. Jean Valjean seemed to be unable to leave him alone and decided to 

spare his life 

as if that was his decision to make. As if Javert did not know what he was doing, taking that step towards the abyss! But of course, Valjean did not concern himself with the wants and needs of other people. If he did the situation would have been so much easier, the convict would have shot him there at the barricades when his mind was still clear, the world made sense and he was still an irreproachable officer of the law. Instead, he was forced to end his life knowing that he was disgraced. And hasn't Valjean taken enough from him? Apparently not, since he was 

still there

, living, his choice just another thing that that thief had stolen.



He opened his eyes with difficulty, noting the stillness and silence in the house and, most importantly, lack of a certain convict in this room. He did not have the strength needed for another heated argument or even suffering Valjean’s company in silence. The mere presence of this man brought a wave of unwanted thoughts to the forefront of his mind and he could not deal with that. Especially not now, when he felt more lucid than he has been in the last weeks. 



Javert looked down at his bandaged leg in a splint, hoping to determine whether he would be able to move it or not. Ultimately, he decided to try and stand up. His back hurt from the lack of movement and he needed to do something about his appearance. He refused to look so undignified any longer (

ha, as if there was any dignity left

, he thought to himself, bitterly). Thus, he gripped the edge of the bed and moved to an awkward position, somewhere between sitting and leaning, trying not to sneer at the fact that such a simple thing seemed to be nigh impossible in his current state. He gritted his teeth angrily. What a pathetic sight he must make.



It was not like he was vain or took pride in his appearance or abilities. Well, there may be some truth in the latter but it was all connected with the fact that he was a representative of the law. As an inspector, he had to be dressed in a way that would reflect his position, show the importance of the station he held, no matter how rotten it was in the eyes of other people. Because of that, and his sense of property, he was extremely fastidious with his clothes, always taking care of them, never allowing his stock to be askew nor a hair to be out of place. His sideburns, no matter how wild, were never untrimmed, his hair, despite their length, always drawn in a neat queue. When he looked at himself in the mirror he did not see 

himself

 but an inspector of the law, an irreproachable man. There was a measure of comfort in this sight, some reassurance that he still followed the right path despite his disgusting origins and the scorn of the crowd. 



He glanced around the room searching for… Well, he did not know exactly. But there, in the corner of the room, near the window his gaze found a small table with a mirror, a basin, a water jug and a shaving kit. He grinned humorlessly, his lips spreading, teeth partially bared in a bestial display of amusement. How peculiar. Had Valjean not thought about the fact that Javert might use the razor for some other purpose than shaving? Had he thought him too weak to stand or well enough mentally not to try anything? A more petty side of him wanted to prove Valjean wrong. 



Standing up turned out to be an even more difficult task than his previous manoeuvres but ultimately he succeeded, making use of a cane that seemed to be prepared for him (and didn’t that make him curse Valjean’s inexplicable kindness even more). With an uncertain stride that looked nothing like his normal gait, he approached the table with the mirror. He hesitated only for a moment before gazing into it. 



Whatever he had expected to see it wasn’t… 

That.

 A foreign face stared at him from the mirror, a stranger that took his place. There was a stubble, a beard almost, growing unruly on his face, his hair was loose, untamed and tangled, greasy from the sweat he still felt on his skin. His cheeks were sunken in and his skin became unnaturally pale, a sign of sickness taking its toll. But the worst sight was his blue eyes that held none of the sharpness of a police officer, nothing of the certainty and assuredness of a man who knows who he is and where he stands in the world. A terrible truth came with this sight, a truth he did not want to acknowledge neither now nor ever. One he never thought he would have to face. 



The irreproachable inspector died that night on the bridge. He was buried in the depths of the Seine, taken by the current while this body of a stranger was pulled out by Jean Valjean. But what to do with a body and a mind that were empty? How to fill the void left by this change that happened inside of him? Was it possible for a man to transform himself so completely, so profoundly that he does not recognise himself in the mirror? No. No, he did not agree, he 

refused.




With confidence he did not feel he poured the water into the basin, wet his face, applied some soap and grabbed the razor, trying to still his shaking hand. He did not look away even for a moment as he raised the dangerously glinting blade to his neck and started shaving the excess of hair. His movements were methodical but not as smooth as they might have been had he been in a better state. His weak constitution after the fall and the emotional turmoil he found himself in left him unable to perform this action in a manner he was accustomed to. 



With each stroke of the blade on his skin, his desperation grew. The man staring at him from the mirror looked more and more like the inspector he knew but at the same time he… Didn’t. There was something wrong with the image, the reflection was mocking him, offering him a glimpse into the past that was gone now, never to come back. With his hand gripping the razor he shaved and shaved and shaved, hoping that if he did it long enough he would see the thing he wanted to see. Maybe with enough dedication and stubbornness, he would be granted a sight that would comfort him in some way, offer a hope that he’s still the man he was before his jump. Using only one hand, he rinsed his face in cold water (seeping into his clothes, stinging his eyes, 

suffocat-

) and looked up again.



The reflection remained the same. It wasn’t the face of the irreproachable inspector, face wet from a recent shave (or from the waters of the Seine) but a stranger, a man he knew nothing about! He dropped the razor, his hands gripping the wooden table so tightly he would swear he heard the wood creak. His breathing was erratic, whether from exhaustion or agitation, it was unknown. Why? Why was he forced to endure this, what right did Valjean have to just walk into his life and change everything about him, offer this endless doubt instead of a life of certainty? How dare the man steal the very core of his being, leaving him an empty husk with no purpose, no goal to strive towards, no law to govern him? In his fury and desperation, he wanted to smash the mirror into a million pieces but he didn’t. Instead, he kept staring, his eyes darting from one point on his face to another, frantic in their search for the man that was no longer there.



Suddenly, a sound came from the open doors. 



“Inspector?”



He has enough self-control not to flinch at the sound but to look at something different than his own face in the mirror. There, in the corner, he could see Valjean, calm but slightly hesitant, standing at the entrance of the room. 



Javert tensed and his posture became rigid, his face closed off, his features smoothed into a neutral mask. But the mask was no longer perfect, it had cracks and some anger and bitterness lurking inside his eyes became visible. An answer to the tentative question. 



Can’t you see? This man is dead and it’s you who have killed him.



 



JAVERT AND VALJEAN



 


Days turned into weeks, weeks into months and still Javert remained a guest in Valjean’s house. The beginnings, as one might expect of men with history such as theirs, were hard. They clashed and argued just about everything — Valjean still uncertain of what to make of his past pursuer’s attempt at his own life and Javert trying to sort out the chaos that was his thoughts. But it seemed that in spite of everything, the conversations they shared (if one were so generous to call them such) helped in some way. They… Hurt but they helped. 



Javert would never claim to be a person ready to change, 

willing

 to do so. He rejected all things that threatened to turn his vision of the world into nothingness or make him see the ways that he was previously blind to. And yet Valjean, maybe by example or by sheer stubbornness, was able to… Well, not as much as convince as bring reason home to Javert. Give him hope that maybe he would be able to live without the uncertainty crushing him at every turn, rendering him unable to function. And the doubts 

were 

there, a permanent fixture in his life after his moment of madness at Pont du Change. How was he to treat the convict that became a saint? How to accept that two polar opposites may exist side by side? 



That’s why apart from arguing Javert could sometimes spend hours just observing Valjean, silent and solemn, his watchful eyes following his every move. If it bothered the man he never gave any indication that it might be so. He just accepted it with his typical warmth and patience, never changing his routine about which, to be quite honest, there was nothing strange or peculiar. At the same time, Jean Valjean seemed infinitely fascinating to Javert, his every act something to be noted, his every gesture or emotion something to remember. He tried to study him, to understand and Valjean allowed him just that.



The conclusions
 he reached were his own but what surprised him were the feelings he found inside himself. He was ready to deal with thinking and doubting (despite the painfulness of the process) but feeling was another matter entirely — illogical, confusing, aggravating. He started asking himself — at which point did his careful observations turn into something more personal? When did the necessity to watch Valjean turn into a need that could not be satisfied? At which point did this man become an integral part of his life? With Valjean, Javert had to learn about the human heart which had been a mystery to him up until this point.



Valjean, on the other hand, learned to fully embrace his past with Javert. Well, it was not like the inspector would allow him to just forget it. Living under one roof with a constant reminder of his failures, of every painful moment in his life was hard. But Javert also brought good things with him. He seemed to be appalled at Valjean’s illogical decisions concerning his daughter and decided to take the matters in his own hands, despite it not being his place. Ultimately, he was right and he did not hesitate to say so (many, 

many times

). It seemed strange to be indebted to the man who was there every time he fell but at the same time it was perfectly logical. Who else but the inspector who knew him like no one else? Who but the one whose fate seemed to be tied so closely with his own? Valjean believed in providence and paradoxically maybe it always brought him back to Javert or Javert back to him. He did not know, dared not to question it — the Lord worked in mysterious ways. Perhaps this was the one mapped out for him. And while Javert observed him, he, in turn, observed Javert. 



There was something captivating in seeing the man outside of his role as an inspector. Not that he was so much different, especially at the beginning. He was still sneering at him, snarling every time something did not go the way he wanted it to go or whenever he felt slighted by Valjean’s concern. On his part, Valjean decided to wait it out. He remembered himself, fresh out of Toulon and he saw traces of that man in Javert now. Confused and angry because he found himself in a seemingly hostile world where nothing made sense anymore. And just like he needed understanding so desperately back then, he decided to offer it to Javert. 



Valjean was not vain enough to fancy himself the bishop but he wanted to help in any way he could. His patience was rewarded with Javert becoming more agreeable or at least more tolerable. He was also amazed to see how the man had changed. There were small things at the beginning — silence instead of hurtful words, a meaningful glance, a well-deserved chastisement. By their sixth month together it turned into something almost domestic. By the tenth, they could have been considered to be friends.



Perhaps it should not come as a surprise to anyone that the thing they shared evolved and changed into genuine affection going well beyond simple friendship. Neither of them knew how it happened but one day they just realised some things. The profound effect one had on the other, the ties of their shared history holding them together, the fact that somewhere along their journey that's life they came to support and rely on each other in the only way they knew. 



Cold water dripped down Javert’s face as he reached out for the towel. He proceeded to carefully dry his face, mindful to wipe the remaining lather near his ears and some that stuck to his sideburns. He looked up at the face in the mirror — his face, Javert’s. No longer an inspector since his bad leg and overall reflections about working in the police (not even mentioning the letter he left for the Prefect) made him unfit for service. But he accepted that now and slowly, just as he was learning what exactly being in a relationship with Jean Valjean meant, he was learning what kind of person 

he 

was. For years he defined himself by his origins or profession or the thing he believed in but not anymore. 



“Javert? Are you ready”



A soft voice came from the direction of the doors as Valjean entered the room. He smiled, seeing Javert sitting before the big mirror, clean-shaven and calm. Javert did not return the smile but something in his eyes mellowed and his posture became more relaxed, despite the scathing words that came out of his mouth. 



“I still don’t know why you insist I make an appearance. I can wait here, I will find some ways to occupy myself. I really 

can 

survive a few hours without your presence.”



A warm laugh answered his words and a strange feeling of warmth filled him — later on he would call himself sappy, pathetic really but now it did not matter, not when those eyes looked at him with such warmth and affection inside of them.



“And 

you 

know that I would love to have you there. We’ve already discussed it.”



Valjean looked into the mirror with fond exasperation to see the reflection of Javert’s face but his eyes caught his own image first.



He no longer had any qualms about looking at his own reflection but he still generally disliked the experience. He had no vanity to speak of and what other reason would he have to look at himself in the mirror? None at all. Maybe from time to time he still feared that he would see something that would remind him of Jean Valjean fresh out of Toulon but… He was him. It was an integral part of him, he could not erase it and so he had no choice but to accept it, just like Javert was willing to accept him with his past and the burdens he carried.



Valjean’s gaze turned to Javert, the real Javert and, as he stood beside him, he placed his hand gently under the other man’s chin. His skin was smooth, freshly shaved and warm, despite the cold water used to clean it. Javert allowed himself to be guided as Valjean tilted his head oh-so-gently. Blue eyes met brown and Valjean smiled briefly before dipping down. And they kissed with all the tenderness Javert did not know he possessed and all the passion Valjean thought dead in him. 



They could have stayed like that for a second or five minutes or an hour, it did not matter, this thing between them still so new to leave them dazzled in its wake. Reluctantly, Valjean straightened with a smile so bright that it seemed to outshine the sun. An observant person might have noticed a slight quirk in Javert’s mouth before he turned to the mirror again. Their eyes met once again.



The convict, the guard, the mayor, the inspector, a man who learned how to stop running and a man who learned how to let go of the past. Jean Valjean and Javert, simply together, looking into the future that did not seem so bad. 



No, it did not seem bad at all...
