Title: You Know Nothing of Javert
Work ID: 32184214
Author: cx_shhhh
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Protectiveness, Oblivious Grantaire, the fact that that's a tag is impressive, protective Javert, Domestic Fluff, tw javert is a cop in this but acab, Enjolras is very emphatic about it, mutual simping, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Cosette and Grantaire are adopted siblings
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

So maybe Javert isn’t the poster definition when one thinks of what a father is supposed to be like. His husband definitely fills that role much better than he does. Valjean is, like,  the definition of a loving and caring father—not that Javert isn’t! He just shows his love differently, mainly in the form of protectiveness. Especially when it comes to his adopted children.

Cosette, a fine and  sensible young woman, hardly needs Javert to look after her. She is more than capable of fending for herself on the streets at night. Grantaire, on the other hand, while also well-versed in many forms of self-defense, just never seems aware of the attention he gets.

Which is where Javert has to step in.

He first realizes this when the four of them go out for lunch one Saturday. His kids have just come back from their second semester at university, and it’s entirely vital that they spend as much time as possible as a family before Javert has to say goodbye again. With lots of tears. He’ll never admit it.

Javert and Valjean reach the café first, surely looking like quite a mismatched couple. Valjean is ridiculously buff, something Javert appreciates a lot, and often wears a kind smile. He’s practically perfect, never mind that he’s been arrested a fair amount of times by his own husband. Javert can forgive and forget, as long as he’s allowed to handcuff Valjean in an entirely different way and have his way with him later.

However, none of that matters right now. What matters is that the men at the table just outside of the entrance are running their mouths like absolute fools with their cigarettes and liquor. And Javert can hear everything they say, despite having a glass window between him and those men.

 “Damn, look at that ass,” one of them remarks, whistling appreciatively. Seriously, could they be any creepier if they tried?

 “It looks like we’re the tourists for once…" another says. Javert sincerely pities their victim.

 “You think the pretty boy would come over if we invited him for a drink?” the last one leers. Javert’s eyebrows rise up into his hairline. Pretty boy?

He’s about to turn back around, not quite feeling up to giving them a stern talking-to, when the first guy exclaims,  “Oh shit, he’s heading our way!”

Just as Javert vomits a little in his mouth, he spots his children enter and immediately feels even more disgusted—not at his kids, of course, but at the fact that those men were clearly talking about his  son. His precious Grantaire isn’t even dressed how he usually is, which would include ripped jeans so tight Javert gets concerned about his circulation, combat boots, and a fitted T-shirt. Instead, he’s wearing a pair of jeans—still skin-tight, but at least there aren’t any holes in it—and a university hoodie that is much too oversized for any lewd comments about his figure.

Still, those horrid men stare at him like he’s a piece of meat. Javert feels the entirely rational urge to commit murder, but he is very aware that it would reflect badly on himself. For now, he seethes quietly, scowling at those who dare talk about Grantaire like that, until he feels a hand on his arm.

Javert puts on a smile just as his son and daughter approach. Cosette looks as cheery as ever, hair glinting in the afternoon sun, and eyes bright. Grantaire looks a bit more reserved, nothing like the playful and rowdy kid Javert has known all his life. He wonders if this is what happens when people go to college nowadays, and he isn’t sure if he likes it. Especially when Grantaire looks soft, innocent, and deceptively delicate now.

And those filthy men are eating him up with their disgusting eyes like he’s some sort of feast, as if they even have the right to  glance- 

“What are you two still standing around for?” Valjean asks, interrupting his husband’s fuming. “We already ordered!”

“Uh, Dad was glaring into the distance before putting on that sorry excuse of a smile,” Grantaire teases, and it does actually explain a lot. “Not that this is a new development or anything, but did you make him mad again?”

“Not that I know of…?”

Javert shakes his head. “No, you’re fine.” He gestures for his children to sit before carefully angling himself, so his son is effectively blocked from view. It’s better this way. “How was your morning?”

Grantaire shrugs. “Pretty uneventful, if I’m being honest. ‘Sette came back from ‘Ponine’s wearing the same clothes from the day before, which was definitely the highlight so far.” He wiggles his eyebrows as his sister blushes.

“Let’s not forget that I’m the one with a girlfriend, R,” Cosette counters.

“Low blow, dear sister. Low. Blow.”

Javert raises an Inquisitive Eyebrow™. “Am I missing something?”

“Yeah, I have a girlfriend. She’s great. Meanwhile, R broke up with his ex a month ago.”

That is certainly news to Javert. He looks over at his husband, who doesn’t even begin to look fazed by this development as he sips his coffee.

“Is this what you two got up to away from home?” Valjean asks. Never mind, then. And to think Javert considers himself the helicopter parent. He knew he married his husband for a reason.

“Well, in our defense, you and Dad collectively scared off everyone back in  lycée,” Grantaire replies, still blissfully unaware of the men ogling him. “I feel like ‘Parnasse took pity on me for my lack of experience!”

He slumps down further into his seat, causing the collar of his hoodie to droop ever so slightly. In doing so, his collarbones become fully visible, pale and just begging the attention of others. Namely, those creepy men.

“Sit up straight, R,” Javert says in his strictest tone.

“But I’m gay, Dad,” Grantaire whines, pouting. “You’re the only anomaly in our little queer family.”

Even Cosette is fully in a manspread. Good for her. However, she’s not the one people are staring at. It’s rather bizarre to observe that in this backwards society, his son is the one who receives the creepy comments. Javert has to do something about it.

He shoots the men a harsh and venomous glare, feeling extremely satisfied when they flinch and whip their heads away.

Unfortunately for him, it doesn’t end there.

After that incident, Javert can’t stop noticing this trend  everywhere.  Parisians are absolutely shameless in their lecherous stares and whispers that seem almost deafening to him. Even as Javert is in the midst of arresting a belligerent young man with a glare to rival his own, he doesn’t stop thinking about his son being in potential danger.

“What’s your name?” he asks the blond guy.

“Enjolras.” The name is spit out with all the fury of someone who hates cops, which Javert can understand deeply. He hates himself too.

“You’ve got spirit, kid, but I think getting arrested for picking a fight on the streets is definitely not the way to go. Just chill.” Okay, so he might be a hypocrite, and the glare directed at him does not begin to fade in the slightest. “This could look bad on your record.”

“Universities just leech more and more money off of people. What goes on my record hardly matters at this point when my parents can pay.”

Damn. Shit just got deep.

“From someone who has to pay two tuitions instead of just one, take it up with your parents instead of me, okay?” Javert sighs, deep and weary. He’ll have to ask his husband for a massage later. God knows those strong arms are good for  something. 

Eventually, Enjolras gets released before the end of the day, not by his parents, but by two men his age. Javert rubs his temples and wonders when this all will end.

Another hour passes before he gets to go home. Valjean greets him with a kiss and the tell-tale scent of flowers. Clearly, going from wanted criminal to full-time florist and baker is the only logical path. Javert can hardly complain, though. His husband is sweet and makes the best sourdough.

“Jean,” Javert says that evening, staring up at the ceiling, “do you notice how R tends to attract… trouble of sorts?”

“Trouble? Our R? What do you mean?” Valjean asks, like he isn’t at all aware of how mischievous their son can be.

Javert tries for nonchalance, but his tone comes out concerned. “Uh, by trouble, I mean unwanted attention. From—how do I put it—seasoned gentlemen.” Comparatively, at least. Grantaire is just barely an adult.

His husband only stares at him before bursting into laughter, holding his belly. “Love, are you telling me that our son is a magnet for perverted old men?”

“That’s exactly what I’m saying!” Javert exclaims before growing quiet, remembering that his kids are back in their small apartment. “Don’t mock me. I’ve been observing. Even when he hangs out with Cosette, the attention still falls on him. Perhaps it’s because our daughter always has her head firmly screwed on and would tell anyone to just fuck off straightaway.”

Valjean is quiet for a moment. “Maybe you should ask her about this. She knows R better than any of us, so she’s bound to have an answer if what you say is indeed true.”

“For the sake of my blood pressure, I hope I’m entirely wrong.”

“Nope! There are definitely creepy old men giving my dear brother disgusting looks!” Cosette chirps, shattering her father’s hopes. “You see them too, then, Dad?”

“Unfortunately. Have they always been like this?” Javert asks helplessly.

Cosette nods. “Yep. It’s always the men too.”

“And R?”

“Doesn’t ever notice.”

Javert blows out a breath. How is this possible? Grantaire is  supposed to notice things! His attention to detail is incredible, as proven by the multitude of paintings decorating their apartment. Perhaps Javert is just being neglectful, but he shakes his head. His children are his pride and joy, so he’s simply jumping to conclusions.

To Cosette, he says, “Nice talk. I’ve gotta get to work now, so don’t stir up any trouble, will you? And if you and your brother go out, make sure you bring pepper spray and all the necessities. For the both of you.”

“Yeah, yeah. I’ll look out for both of us.”

“Good girl.”

Javert walks into work with a disposition that is definitely more lighthearted than he usually is. Nobody would exactly consider him to be happy, per se, but his ever-present scowl has lessened ever so slightly. His slightly-less-annoyed mood lasts all morning and well into the afternoon before fading.

“You again?” Javert asks incredulously. He feels a headache coming on in the form of one tall blond man in particular who can’t seem to keep away from breaking the law.

“Me again,” Enjolras affirms. He doesn’t seem too disappointed by the fact that he’s being arrested for the second time in mere days. “Not for picking a f…” The words die on his lips as the doors to the police station open.

Grantaire walks in.

“Hey, Dad. Papa told me to bring you lunch because you left in a haste this morning,” he says, bag dangling from his hand. Javert watches in apprehension and dismay as Grantaire’s eyes slide over to the other occupant of the room and widen. “Apollo?”  Apollo? 

“You know each other?” Javert demands, interrupting their impromptu staring session. At the same time, Enjolras asks, “He’s your dad?”

Well. This is awkward.

Grantaire glances between the two of them, mouth forming a circle as understanding visibly dawns upon his face. Javert’s expression is frozen somewhere in the middle of shock and horror, mouth slack. Meanwhile, Enjolras doesn’t take his eyes  off of Grantaire, which snaps Javert out of his stupor.

Oh no.

“Alright, R!” he exclaims, and he curses himself for how Enjolras’s mouth moves to silently speak Grantaire’s nickname. “Thanks for the food. I’ll see you at home.” Javert practically pushes his son out of the station and into the brisk Parisian afternoon.

Grantaire turns around to look at him with confusion in his large blue eyes. “Wait-”

“Bye!”

Perhaps Javert was a little harsh sending his son off, but this is absolutely necessary. He might have to interrogate Enjolras about what he does and doesn’t know.

Back inside, Enjolras has a thoughtful expression on his face. Javert kind of already hates it. He grumbles something unintelligible to his own ears. How dare this insolent man lay eyes on Grantaire and let them rest there? Yes, Javert understands that his son has pretty features—long lashes and fair cheeks and nice bone structure—but that is not an invitation to stare! A woman wearing no clothes is not an invitation for men to assault her in the streets!

At least Enjolras has one redeeming quality, which is that he isn’t older than Grantaire by entire decades. Still, he’s practically a delinquent! Javert realizes that he’s being rather hypocritical, but that hardly matters when his kid deserves someone who will love him more than they love themself. Grantaire deserves the world.

“So, I’m assuming you recognize my son from university,” Javert says, trying to keep his tone pleasant.

“We happen to be in the same philosophy course,” Enjolras replies mildly. “I’ve talked to him maybe once, twice if you consider the time he was desperate to prove me wrong about Aristotle.”

That sounds like Grantaire alright. He was known rather well for running his mouth occasionally back in  lycée, and clearly that habit has not left. A thought still niggles at the back of Javert’s brain.

“Why did he call you Apollo?”

Enjolras shrugs. “Beats me.” He grunts as he sits down in his holding cell. “Though if we’re being completely honest, Grantaire is the one who should have a poetic epithet.”

And here Javert thought he would be able to gain more insight on his son’s actions away from home, but he figures that he should just give up for now. He’ll just have to sic Cosette on Grantaire in the meantime. That way, he’ll have eyes and ears on his son at all times and hopefully someone to steer him away from potential suitors.

Javert almost snorts at his own train of thought. Grantaire is a strong young man capable of taking care of himself. He just doesn’t know that he has to in the first place.

True to his word, Javert convinces his daughter to plaster herself to Grantaire’s side and never let him leave her line of vision.

“So to recap, I’ll just sidle up to R and insert myself into whatever conversation he’s having?”

Javert nods. “Yes. Especially if he’s having a conversation with one guy in particular. Tall, blond-haired, blue-eyed, goes by the name Enjolras.”

“Oh, him,” Cosette considers, tapping her chin with one perfectly manicured finger. “I dunno why R would be talking to one of those activist guys, but I’m pretty sure Enjolras isn’t like any of those older men you were wary of.”

“You’re supposed to be on my side!” Javert exclaims. “Why are you defending that- that delinquent?” He gestures wildly to prove his point. Their cat hops up onto the counter, waving her fluffy white tail in his face.

“And  you’re supposed to understand that all R wants is a love life! He’s not going to be happy when he finds out that he’s being coddled.”

“If he finds out. Besides, I’m not coddling him,” Javert huffs. “I’m just looking out for him. Has he always been so… ignorant of the attention he receives?”

Cosette’s face falls. “You know how self-deprecating he can get. He never really had any feelings for his ex. It just so happened to be that Montparnasse was the first person to explicitly tell him that he’s gorgeous. R wouldn’t believe for a moment that people notice him for his looks, much less everything else wonderful about him.”

Javert feels guilty that maybe he has been a neglectful parent after all because he has never done anything to boost Grantaire’s self-image in the past. Sure, he has congratulated him on all the art awards he’s won and proudly displayed as many of his paintings as possible, but he never once considered that Grantaire would not deem himself worthy of attention, shallow or otherwise. For the most part, Javert feels torn between feeling more protective than ever and encouraging people—respectable ones—to go and compliment his son on his beauty.

Instead he asks, “And Enjolras? Has he ever paid our R any attention in the past?”

“Not that I know of,” Cosette replies. “Then again, I don’t have any classes with both of them at the same time. However, I  have attended a few of Enjolras’s club meetings, and he seems… nice? Angry is definitely the word I’d use to describe him, but I feel like that isn’t gonna fly with you. Righteous, maybe.”

Scrubbing a hand over his face, Javert sighs. “I’m very aware that he’s quite an angry individual… Wait, so you have never witnessed him interact with your brother?”

Cosette shakes her head. Well, Javert will take whatever he can get. He’s about to say something else when his husband enters the kitchen, whistling merrily. Pausing, Valjean looks between the two of them curiously but doesn’t question their wide-eyed expressions and hands frozen mid-gesture.

Valjean leaves the kitchen, only for Grantaire to enter right when Javert opens his mouth again. Clearly, this is the end of  that  conversation. Grantaire even does a little twirl to whatever music is filtering through his earbuds as he picks up a muffin and bites into it, completely disregarding his father and sister. Leaning against the counter and propping his cheek up in his hand, he chews nonchalantly, like neither of them are even there to begin with.

Javert clears his throat awkwardly and gives Cosette a pointed glance before he leaves his children alone. Marshmallow purrs and bumps her head against Grantaire’s side.

In the span of a week, the massive headache comes back at least three times—the massive headache being Enjolras, who seems to spend more time at the police station than Javert does these days. He has a sneaking suspicion that he’s just here to catch a glimpse of Grantaire, should he randomly come in again.

Fortunately for Javert, Cosette is a brilliant daughter, who holds up her end. She doesn’t spend a moment away from Grantaire, quickly jumping up and following him out the door even when it’s just for the sake of getting the mail. With their combined forces, not a single creepy old man—or Enjolras—will get through. Javert even  smiles one day when he arrives at work, though it quickly fades when Enjolras shows up in handcuffs.

“Do you really have nothing better to do?” he asks.

“Nothing is more important than the cause,” Enjolras replies firmly. “Even if it means getting arrested.”

It just so happens that in that moment, Grantaire enters the police station with a furious expression on his face. He opens his mouth like he’s about to chew Javert out for something, but when his gaze reaches Enjolras, he looks  shy of all things. Javert would much rather be yelled at than be forced to bear witness to this.

He clears his throat. “Did you need something?”

“Wha-  yeah. I want to know why Cosette has been following me literally everywhere! It’s been a week, Dad, and she’s never voluntarily gone to the supermarket with me before!”

Javert winces. Perhaps he might be taking it a bit too far. He doesn’t really want to have this discussion in front of Enjolras either. Putting on a neutral expression, he tries, “Maybe she wants to spend more time with you?” His statement tilts up into a question.

Grantaire throws his hands up in exasperation. “We go to the same uni! Whatever time she doesn’t spend sleeping is spent with me!”

“Have you considered that it’s for your own good?” Javert asks, trying to keep his tone even. “Cosette notices things that you don’t.”

“Like what? That I apparently need a chaperone at all times?”

Yikes. “Uh, no. Must we have this conversation now?” Javert gestures to Enjolras, who’s watching them keenly. Well, he’s mostly watching Grantaire with an expression that is about as close to awe as it can get. It’s slightly better than looking at Grantaire like he’s something to be consumed. Javert would rather Enjolras didn’t look at him at all. “I’m a little busy.”

Grantaire lets out a tiny  hmph and turns away, but as he walks past the holding cell, he lets his fingers just barely brush Enjolras’s. Javert explodes. Metaphorically, of course. Mostly, he’s offended by Enjolras’s audacity.

Enjolras’s friends—Combeferre and Courfeyrac, Javert quickly learns—bail him out yet again, and Javert sighs in great relief that his headache magically disappears.

When he’s left alone in his office, the first thing he does is make a list of pros and cons about his son potentially dating Enjolras. He actually has no idea what their relationship status already is, but Cosette clearly has been doing a great job preventing any progress from happening.


 Pros: He is not older, he looks like he respects R, that’s… it. 


 Cons:   HE GETS HIMSELF ARRESTED ALL THE FUCKING TIME. 

That in itself should be enough to deter Javert from giving Enjolras his approval. And then a very unwelcome thought worms its way into the back of his mind. What if Enjolras has just been getting himself arrested for the sole purpose of coming to the police station? To maybe catch a glimpse of Grantaire?

Javert shakes his head. The guy seems like he genuinely cares about his causes, so seeing Grantaire would merely be a bonus to him. Either way, he’s a dedicated individual. Javert can begrudgingly acknowledge that.

“Ugh,” he grumbles to himself, putting his head in his hands. “Why did R have to go and choose a goddamn hooligan of all people to fall for?”

Javert reluctantly tells his daughter to stop following Grantaire around, and she looks relieved when he does. The last thing he wants is for them to end up hating each other when they have always been so close in the past.

“No offense, but I was getting a little sick and tired of it, and R looked like he was one second away from screaming at me,” Cosette says.

“I just have no idea what R sees in Enjolras.”

“He’s generally a good person, couldn’t care less about looks—probably because he and his friends are all hot as fuck—and actually listens to what others think?” Cosette ticks off each redeeming quality with her fingers. “Honestly, he is far from the worst person R could’ve chosen.”

Perhaps Javert should re-evaluate his initial assessment. Marshmallow meows in agreement.

That night, he wrinkles his brows, deep in thought, when a pair of familiar arms wind themselves around his waist. Javert leans back into his husband’s warmth and lets himself be cuddled for a moment.

“Are you still worrying about our son’s safety?” Valjean asks.

“Always. He seems to have an admirer now too.”

“And what’s so wrong about someone admiring R?”

Javert sighs. “Well, as long as they’re not leering at him, nothing, but this guy’s been in the holding cell nearly as many times as you have.” Valjean dares to laugh. “Is it so wrong that I don’t want him to be a bad influence on R?”

When Valjean sobers up, he replies, “I think you should give him a chance. Invite him over for dinner.”

 “What?!” Javert nearly screeches, horrified.

“I trust our son’s judgement. If he likes this person, we have no choice but to accept it.”

Javert just scowls as he lies back onto his bed. His husband is supposed to be on his side, not in defense of someone who’s trying to woo Grantaire. “Hmph.”

“You can ‘hmph’ all you want, but I still stand by my decision,” Valjean teases. “R is an adult who can make his own decisions.”

Fine.

It just so happens that Enjolras is wearing a black shirt with “ACAB” printed across the front when Javert opens the door to his apartment. He’s also wearing a defiant and stubborn expression, like he’s challenging him to even mention it. Javert has enough self-loathing that he agrees with the statement.

Before he can say anything, his son pushes past and grabs Enjolras’s hand, tugging him over the threshold. Since when was Grantaire so bold? Since when were they this comfortable around each other? Javert has so many questions and not nearly enough energy to seek answers.

“Enjolras, this is my dad, who you’ve met many times,” Grantaire introduces. “Dad, this is Enjolras, who isn’t nearly as bad as you think he is.” To Enjolras, he says, “You already know ‘Sette, and Papa is in the kitchen making bread. I have to say, his obsession with bread is really quite extraordinary.”

"Must be hereditary," Enjolras remarks.

Javert is left in stunned silence when his son laughs and flounces off with his… admirer… in tow, gesturing to every decoration on every wall. They’re standing quite closely together, and he has to fight the urge to just nudge them apart. A few inches never hurt anyone.

“Did you paint these?” Enjolras asks, awestruck, snapping Javert out of his shocked stupor. When Grantaire nods, fidgeting with the sleeves of his oversized sweater, Enjolras is quick to compliment the art on the wall.

And then Javert can only witness the brilliant smile that lights up his son’s face as his cheeks turn pink. Really, that should be all it takes to convince Javert to welcome Enjolras into the family. Grantaire’s happiness is his number one priority.

Still, he wishes to observe for just a while longer. Just in case he finds something to lord against Enjolras about. In truth, he should not be so against Grantaire dating him, but this is his son in question, who has had his fair share of lustful glances tossed in his direction. Who is to say that luring Grantaire into bed with him isn’t Enjolras’s goal?

However, Javert notices how Enjolras’s eyes never stray from Grantaire’s face, regardless of how tight his jeans are or how the collar of his sweater dips ever so slightly. It’s obvious that Enjolras is a far cry from the assholes back at the café. He lowers his head to talk to Grantaire and whisper something into his ear, lips just barely brushing his cheek. Javert would feel like he’s intruding on a moment, if there was a moment to intrude on to begin with.

Well, Grantaire blushes softly, so this is definitely a moment. And then he lifts his chin just in time for Enjolras to kiss him tenderly. It looks… It looks almost ethereal as Grantaire lifts his arms to snake them around Enjolras’s neck while Enjolras cradles the back of his head gently in one hand and his waist in the other. Marshmallow winds herself around their ankles.

Carefully averting his eyes, Javert turns away and joins his husband in the kitchen. Has it really been long enough since they’ve met to already be kissing in the living room? Javert supposes that kids these days move speedily with their whirlwind romances and whatnot. He’s allowed to want Grantaire to have a fulfilling love life, however, so he’s also allowed to be wary of how quickly their relationship is progressing.

“What are they doing out there?” Valjean asks as he plops a lump of kneaded dough into a pan. “I still haven’t met the boy yet.”

Javert leans against the counter. “Kissing.”

“Already?”

“See, I asked myself that too.”

“Good for them.”

“Ughhhh.” Javert tips his forehead against his husband’s broad back. “I’m conflicted. On one hand, I’m happy that R found someone who seems to care about him, but did it have to be the one person who has gotten himself arrested more times than I can count over the span of this summer?”

Valjean hums. “It means that Enjolras is a dedicated young man, who would never lead our R astray. His intentions are good, so I have no qualms against welcoming him into our humble family.”

“Alright. If he makes it through dinner and movie night, I’ll reconsider.”

“Don’t make his life hard on purpose,” Valjean chides, “even if it’s our civic duty as parents to give a shovel talk.”

“Hmph. Fine.”

Cosette carries most of the conversation during dinner, asking the questions Javert means to, but she coaxes more information out of Enjolras than he ever could. He feels a little betrayed to learn that Enjolras has been seeing his son for most of the summer  through the goddamned bedroom window for the sole purpose of arguing over politics and philosophy, of all things. Is this some Shakespearean bullshit? Then again, Javert should absolutely not be surprised, given the number of times that he’s had to arrest the guy.

Aside from that, Enjolras is perfectly polite, complimenting the bread while Valjean preens and grins happily at him. Javert has to begrudgingly give it to him. Especially upon seeing the tiny smile on Grantaire’s face.

“You’re not left-handed, R,” Javert observes. His son immediately turns red, which means that he definitely is holding Enjolras’s hand under the table. Grantaire sitting next to Enjolras instead of across from him at least bars him from the opportunity to play footsie under the tablecloth.

“I’m spicing it up a bit,” Grantaire replies. “And who’s to say I didn’t suddenly become ambidextrous during the past year?”

Honestly, that does sound like something he would do just for fun.

“So apart from getting arrested, what do you do?” Javert directs his question towards Enjolras, who swallows his mouthful of bread after nearly choking on it. Grantaire pats his back firmly with a worried look in his eyes.

“Cosette probably told you about Les Amis de l’ABC,” Enjolras replies, “which lends itself to me getting arrested. Don’t worry, though. Your daughter hasn’t gotten into any trouble… Well, she’s just better at not getting caught. Aside from that, I’m on the debate team.”

“Apparently that involves late-night debates too,” Javert grumbles. Enjolras shrugs, and Grantaire blushes. “As long as that was  all you two were doing.” Javert points an accusing finger at the two of them.

“Dad,” Grantaire whines, “we’re not in  lycée anymore.”

“Irrelevant. If I don’t get to sleep with my husband while you’re here, you don’t get to sleep with your…” Javert trails off, unsure of what to label them, while Cosette spits out her water and bursts into helpless giggles. Valjean looks a little mortified, but not nearly so much as Enjolras at the moment.

“Boyfriend,” Grantaire finishes, and Enjolras’s entire face fucking lights up. They’re going to be entirely disgusting, aren’t they? Grantaire turns to face his  boyfriend like he’s about to kiss him, trailing delicate fingertips up Enjolras’s arm.

“Oi, no PDA at the dinner table,” Cosette interrupts, snapping her fingers in between the two of them once she’s calmed down. Javert breathes a sigh of relief and mentally pats himself on the back for having the sense to put her across from them. He has someone on his side. Enjolras and Grantaire both look suitably chastised.

Javert maintains pleasant conversation during the rest of the meal, quickly changing the subject whenever Valjean gives him a pointed look. He tells himself that he’s doing this for the sake of his family.

Movie night involves a rom-com because Javert loves them, although he’ll never admit it. He always makes the excuse that his husband and children adore them, but he likes the stupid and cliché sappiness just as much, if not more. Whether or not Enjolras will sit through a rom-com for his son might be what makes or breaks this deal.

Javert’s internal monologue makes this whole mess sound more like a business transaction than him giving his approval for Enjolras to date his son.

He has no choice but to sneakily observe the two of them through the movie and grunt in satisfaction when he notices how Enjolras’s eyes remain glued to the screen while Grantaire is the one who falls asleep, head pillowed against his chest. Enjolras subtly tilts, so Grantaire can snooze away at a more comfortable angle. Javert hates that he thinks it’s almost cute how his son snuggles up to him.

Who is he kidding? Grantaire is absolutely adorable and has been since the moment they adopted him. It’s Enjolras’s utterly smitten expression that is one hundred percent not cute.

When the credits roll, Enjolras is quick to lift Grantaire up into his arms, gently so as not to disturb him. Javert finds it a little strange that Enjolras knows exactly where Grantaire’s bedroom is, considering that he’s never actually come in through the front door before this evening.

“Hey,” he says, “no funny business.”

Enjolras just looks at him weirdly and then looks down at Grantaire with the most tender expression Javert has ever seen on someone. “He’s asleep.”

“My point still stands. You have my blessing, but you’re also on  thin fucking ice. ”

“With all due respect, I never exactly asked for your blessing, and if you raise your voice another decibel, R’s going to wake up.” Despite having just delivered such a jarring sentence, Enjolras drops a soft kiss to Grantaire’s forehead, brushing the curls away from his face and smiling when Grantaire cuddles closer.

Javert can’t help but gain an inkling of respect for Enjolras. He is a good person and very much besotted with Grantaire. They can all rest easy for now.

 “No, R, you don’t understand. I’m like two hundred percent certain your dad hates my guts.”  Enjolras’s voice filters through the apartment walls, which wakes Javert up simultaneously with the bright morning sunlight.

 “Enj, darling, he doesn’t hate you. As long as you love me, there’s no need to be afraid of either of my dads,” Grantaire replies, uncharacteristically early for once, though that may have to do with him falling asleep during the movie. Wait, love? Since when…?

Javert heaves himself out of bed right in time for Enjolras to reply,  “Wait,  both  your dads?” 


 “Papa spends a lot of time carrying flour around, so don’t be fooled by his cheery disposition. Oh, and he’s spent nineteen years in jail. It’s honestly a wonder that you got both their approval in one night.” 


Dragging himself out the bedroom door, Javert bumps right into his husband, who steadies him. Valjean is the absolute worst, being the morning person that he is, but he’s also the best because he hands Javert a mug of coffee right away.

“Our son and his brand new shiny boyfriend or whatever are gossiping about us,” Javert mumbles into his husband’s back. “Says we’re scary.”

“Well,  you definitely are,” Valjean replies with a chuckle. “I’m the dictionary definition of good and nice and friendly.”

“I hate you.”

“Eh, keep telling yourself that.”

At that exact moment, Grantaire strolls out of his bedroom with his boyfriend and Marshmallow at his heels, wearing a familiar hoodie… that definitely does not belong to him. Javert racks his brain to see whether or not he remembers Enjolras wearing a red hoodie yesterday.

“He left it here, like, last week,” Grantaire explains, as if reading his father’s mind. He rubs his cheek against the collar like a cat. The hoodie is massive on him, sleeves flopping over his wrists, and Enjolras doesn’t look away from him once.

Javert is pretty sure that Enjolras just really wants to cuddle Grantaire or something.

Throughout breakfast, Grantaire insists on sitting sideways in Enjolras’s lap and feeding him bits of his croissant. They’re absolutely shameless, especially when Enjolras catches Grantaire’s hand and kisses his fingertips. And then Grantaire will kiss his boyfriend’s cheek, causing them both to blush.

Sickening, the two of them. Javert needs at least another cup of coffee, and his husband provides it willingly. He thinks he might need to go see a dentist to check for cavities when Enjolras swipes the crumbs off of Grantaire’s lips, and Grantaire takes the opportunity to brush a kiss against his thumb.

Instead of chastising them for public displays of affection, Cosette just grins at them and bites into her own pastry. Javert mourns the loss of his teammate in his fruitless ambition.

Oh well, he supposes it could all be worse.

“Where are you going?” he asks when his son entwines his fingers with Enjolras’s after stepping into his shoes.

“To Enjolras’s apartment and then on a  date,  ” Grantaire replies meaningfully, “and Cosette is  not gonna try to follow me and pull me away from him.”

Javert rolls his eyes. “Alright then. As long as I don’t have to bail you out from my own workplace.”

Grantaire beams at him and darts over to hug him, so Javert takes that as forgiveness for being so harsh to Enjolras. “You’re the best dad.”

“Hey, I heard that!” Valjean calls from the kitchen.

“Love you too!” The door closes with a  snick behind them.


 “Yeah, so that’s how my week went. How are you and Papa holding up back at home?” 


Javert hums into the phone. “It’s a little dull without you or your sister livening things up. Oh, and your beloved boyfriend isn’t here to keep me company at the station.”

Grantaire giggles, sounding a little tinny.  “Never thought you’d actually miss Enjolras- hey, what are you…?” 

“Everything alright?”

 “It’s just my dad, Enj.”  Grantaire sounds a little breathless.  “Stop squishing me, oh my God! I can’t breathe… Yes, I love you too. You can have kisses later.” 

“‘Just your dad,’ huh?” Javert remarks, raising an eyebrow. “I should feel offended.”


 “No, that’s not what I-” 


“It’s okay. I know that you think I’m the best father in the world. Go kiss your golden retriever of a boyfriend now before you subject me to more details than I’d like to know. Enjolras sounds like he needs some attention.”

Grantaire mutters something unintelligible before hurriedly saying,  “Love you, Dad,”  and hanging up.

Javert smiles down at his phone—or what would be his definition of a smile, anyway—before Valjean comes back and settles on the couch next to him. He wonders out loud exactly where his cute and tiny kid with stars in his eyes went and when exactly he was replaced by a competent young man, who looks at someone else with those very same eyes.

“R’s still the same person. He just won’t have to rely on us as much,” Valjean soothes. “Oh, and earlier, Enjolras asked if we were aware of all the looks that Grantaire unknowingly receives from your so-called ‘seasoned gentlemen’.”

Javert feels smug and triumphant. “Aha! I knew putting Grantaire in Enjolras’s hands was a good idea!”

Valjean snorts. “Right. A brilliant idea. You’re practically overflowing with those.”

“Ugh. Anyway, tell Enjolras that I’ll be sharing my tactics on how to keep those wandering eyes away from Grantaire.”

Javert is loath to admit that he sobs and bawls like a baby when Grantaire gets married years later. He and Enjolras make a ridiculously attractive pair, but it’s honestly how they’re both teeming with love for the other that makes Javert tear up more than just a little. Enjolras actually asked for approval before proposing, and Javert was more than happy to give it.

“... and I promise that even if my father decides to arrest you out of spite or for fun, I’ll always be there to bail you out,” Grantaire says, eyes shining with happy tears. “In fact, you could say that the first time I saw you in that holding cell that summer, I thought you were particularly  arresting.”

Everyone groans except for Enjolras, who keeps his smitten gaze fixed on Grantaire before catching him around the waist and dipping him backwards into a kiss when the officiant deems it time. Grantaire laughs against his new husband’s mouth and just lets himself be kissed over and over.

Javert cries and tries to discreetly wipe the evidence away with the back of his hand. It doesn’t quite work, but he couldn’t care less. Not when his son is so elated to be in the arms of the man he’s in love with.

This little moment is pretty arresting too.