Title: Like Hands Joined Together
Work ID: 46356478
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Fantine/Original Female Character
Additional Tags: Alternative Universe - Left Hand of Darkness fusion, Montreuil-sur-Mer, Enemies to Lovers, Slow Burn, Spies & Secret Agents, Demisexuality, Hurt/Comfort, Fantine Lives (Les Misérables), Eventual Smut, Plotty, there was only one tent, Homoerotic ice adventure, Internalized Homophobia, Suicidal Thoughts, Non-Graphic Violence
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 26/26

     “Light is the left hand of darkness

     and darkness the right hand of light.

     Two are one, life and death, lying

     together like lovers in kemmer,

     like hands joined together,

     like the end and the way.”

          - Ursula K. Le Guin, from The Left Hand of Darkness 

 

It was a bitter spring day, with just enough budding green to have made spring’s arrival undeniable, and enough chill in the air to make one question one’s eyes.  The wind blew in gusts as the sun occasionally glanced through the clouds.  A crowd was gathered outside the town’s city hall, and was still growing.  People made their way in gradually from the surrounding town and countryside. 

A tall man in a long gray coat watched with an air of detachment.  Javert, the town’s police inspector, considered it a point of pride to arrive early and as tidily dressed as was his habit.  Despite his apparent calm, though, he felt a great deal of unease.  He did not care for crowds, as in his experience they led to trouble often enough.  And as far as he was concerned, spring could not come fast enough.  A particularly sharp gust of wind hit his face and he suppressed a shiver.  But bothering him most of all was the reason for the gathering.  The new mayor was due to be sworn in.  Javert was of course familiar with Monsieur Madeleine - everyone in Montreuil, on Karhide’s northern border, was.  But since Javert’s arrival in the town, he had watched as everyone else in the town had fallen under the man’s spell.  Javert had remained as aloof from Madeleine as he now did from the crowd.  He himself would not be taken in, he told himself.

The man looked unsettlingly familiar; never a good sign for someone in Javert’s line of work.  His background was a mystery.  Even his family was a blank, although traces of an accent suggested a childhood in rural eastern Karhide.  None of this spoke well of the man.  Now he was to be read in as the town’s mayor.  No matter, Javert tried to tell himself.  It would make little enough difference to him who his new master was.  The previous mayor had been largely indifferent to the running of the police, and Javert would continue to do his job, regardless of who wore the sash of office.  

Javert checked his watch - ten til. The ceremony was due to start at noon, but there was what Javert considered an alarming lack of punctuality in these rural towns.  He was to wait another twenty minutes; the crowd continuing to gather around him.  His reputation and his demeanor ensured a certain amount of space around him, and Javert was grateful for this small blessing.  This was enough of an ordeal anyway without being pressed in on all sides.  

Finally, Monsieur Madeleine made his appearance, coming through the tall doors of city hall.  The man was inconspicuously dressed - but more formally than was his custom, as a nod to the occasion. He stood on the front steps of the city hall, hands clasped behind his back.  He glanced around over the assembled crowd.  Surely he must be familiar with most of the people there, thought Javert.  Madeleine had a habit of wandering among the people of the town, taking an interest in them while never saying much about himself.  This is what had led him to this position:  this man whom everyone and no one knew.  Javert too wandered the town with an eye out for everyone, but, he supposed, lacking money and charm, and being tasked with law enforcement, surely no one would consider him a beloved public figure.

Ordinarily, the town’s judge would have done the swearing in, but Montreuil did not have a judge of its own.  The judge from neighboring Attin arrived to perform the ceremony.

Javert had noticed his carriage as it arrived this morning, pulling up to the city hall in style.  Now, the judge walked out onto the porch with Monsieur Madeleine, the spring wind occasionally catching at his robes.

Monsieur Madeleine watched as the judge approached him.  Joining them on the steps of the city hall were several prominent businesspeople from the town.  Magistrates from Montreuil were joined by those representing several neighboring towns.  A woman stood by carrying a small microphone and radio equipment.  The ceremony would be broadcast as far as the signal could reach.

With a slightly theatrical smile, directed first at M. Madeleine and then at the gathered crowd, the judge began to speak.  “It brings me joy to see you here today.”  

In the audience, Javert listened, the casual manner of North Karhide on a formal occasion not quite sitting right with him.  

The judge continued.  “We are here this morning to grant the great honor and responsibility of the mayorship to a man I think we may all agree is eminently well-suited.  He has shown himself time and again to be a friend to all of Montreuil.  The king of Karhide himself has appointed Monsieur Madeleine to the office of mayor, and I trust that he will do the assignment honor.”

Some cheers floated up from around where Javert stood.  His mind reacted instinctively against them, withdrawing further from the proceedings the more the enthusiasm of the crowd showed.

“Thank you, Monsieur le Président,” murmured Madeleine in a voice that could scarcely be heard among the crowd.

“Please raise your right hand,” said the judge to Madeleine.  Madeleine obeyed, while placing his left hand on his heart as was local custom in court.  “Jean-Pierre Madeleine, His Excellency King Antoine Harge has appointed you to the office of Mayor of Montreuil.  Do you accept this charge, and swear to faithfully serve the laws of Karhide?”

A shiver ran down Javert’s spine.  Was it just the wind?

“Yes, Your Honor,” answered Madeleine.

“Do you swear your loyalty and allegiance to His Excellency King Harge?”

“Yes, Your Honor.”

“And do you swear to defend the interests of the citizens of Montreuil, as if they were your own blood?”

“Yes, Your Honor.”

“Then let it be known to all that Monsieur le Maire Jean-Pierre Madeleine speaks to Montreuil for the King, and serves here in his name.”

This was the moment when the sash would normally be transferred from the outgoing mayor to the incoming one, but the man who had previously held the post had died. The ceremonial sash had been brought out on a small pillow by a well-dressed civil servant.

The bearer of the pillow draped the golden sash around Madeleine’s shoulders, and the crowd cheered.  Javert remained still.  He had to admit that the man had a proper sense of the dignity of the occasion, and that his composure had done him credit.  

Mayor Madeleine then spoke a few words, carefully chosen but not artful.  It appeared that he himself had composed his short speech, rather than hire out the task to a public letter writer, or a personal servant.  His manner was almost shy, and the woman with the microphone had moved in as inconspicuously as possible to try to better pick up his voice.  He did not speak with a natural air of authority, noted Javert with slight disapproval.  Madeleine concluded his remarks quickly, and the ceremony was soon over.  

Javert watched as the crowd dispersed peacefully, and then he too strode off in silence.  The day was still young, after all, and he had a long shift ahead of him.

***

Despite the crowd’s overall enthusiasm, Javert had not been the only one watching the new mayor of Montreuil with disapproval.  A woman with golden hair and a tattered dress which had been repaired many times over was also watching from outside of the main press of the crowd.  Her name was Fantine, and she far surpassed Javert in her dislike for the new mayor.  Fantine had harbored anger at the mayor since she had been dismissed from his factory for having a young child.  Now, she was making a meager living as a seamstress, contracting out work from local shops.

She could not have said what made her choose to come to the ceremony in the first place.  After all, the weather was bright enough - she would be wasting hours that she would be able to work without a candle.  A heavy shawl, her only one, wrapped tightly around her against the wind.  The scratchy wool had faded to an off-gray after too much wear, but it would continue to serve.  It would have to.  

Fantine skimmed the gathering crowd superciliously. She considered the mayor all show, a hypocrite of the worst kind (in this, she had more in common with the few wealthy citizens of the town than she could have imagined).  Perhaps this was truly why she had come - she felt on some level that the crowd must not be completely fawning.  Someone here needed to be a detached witness.  

And there was a thrill to it - to the excitement of being part of the crowd.  Fantine was still young, beneath her hardening exterior.  The rush of being among the crowd affected her, without quite influencing her sympathies.  She felt above the crowd and separate from it.  In this attitude, looking around, Fantine noticed someone she thought she knew.  

Yes, she was nearly certain that she recognized Marguerite, across the crowded street from where she stood.  Marguerite had been a friend of hers when Fantine had first arrived in Montreuil.  Every once in a while, while she was working alone in her dark attic home, Fantine thought of Marguerite and wondered what the other woman was doing.  She had to admit, Marguerite’s light voice and cheerful laugh had made the hours go by faster when they had worked together in the factory.  Fantine had never felt able to confide in her with her full story, however, and after she was fired, she felt too ashamed to go to Marguerite and try to explain.  She supposed that she had her chance now.

And why not?  After all, there was nothing more that Marguerite could take from her, even if she had the mind to.  The shops for whom she sewed cared little enough for her reputation or past.  

“Marguerite!” she called.

The woman turned around to fully face Fantine.  She had forgotten what a pretty face Marguerite had. Perhaps that was just her own loneliness speaking.  Now that she worked alone, her days contained little conversation.  She saw her downstairs neighbors regularly, passing them on the stairwell and while going about their business, but had very little real companionship.  She felt self conscious for a moment, but she was grateful that she had thoroughly combed her hair before leaving for the ceremony. 

“What?!  Fantine?!”  Marguerite seemed genuinely delighted to see her.  She rushed over, and looked Fantine up and down.  

Several people nearby shot glares their way, as the ceremony was about to get underway.  They quieted down, reluctantly on Fantine’s part.  She had welcomed the distraction from her foul mood, and kept stealing glances at Marguerite throughout the brief ceremony.  Soon the new mayor was out of sight, and Fantine scarcely noticed.  

“I have to go,” said Fantine, reluctantly, as the crowd began to dissipate.  

“What are you doing these days?”  

“I’m working as a seamstress.  It seems like I have to keep working day and night to be able to make enough to send for Cosette’s care.  My little daughter.” Fantine spoke looking down at her feet.

Marguerite nodded.  “You know, Fantine - me and a few of the girls at the factory, we never thought you did anything wrong.  So you have a little girl.  Who hasn’t made some mistakes?  It’s not right that you were turned out.”

Fantine ducked her head.  She had not hoped to find support like this…

Marguerite gently tilted Fantine’s head back up with a finger under her chin, and looked into her eyes.  Fantine’s breath caught - it was the first time someone had looked at her as fully human since…she could not remember.  Everyone looked past her, seeing her as only a clog in the machine of the city’s commerce, or else admiring or envying her golden hair and white teeth.  No one saw  her .  No one since Tholomyès, or perhaps the kind woman who had agreed to take in Cosette so that she could seek work…

“Let me walk you home, at least,” said Marguerite.  

“That would be nice.”

They continued to talk on the way back to the attic where Fantine lived, the whole time chatting as easily as they had in the factory.  As if nothing had happened and no time had passed.  Marguerite asked questions about Cosette, and Fantine was guarded at first.  But gradually she warmed up on the subject, talking animatedly about Cosette’s charms.  They made to say their goodbyes as they reached the faded yellow house where Fantine lived.

“You must come and visit us sometime.  I hate to think of you all alone up there, night and day.  It’s not good for your eyes, or your hands, or your heart.”

Fantine laughed slightly in surprise, a sound that surprised her.  She had not laughed these past few months.  “All right.”

Marguerite gave her address - a lodging house where she lived with several other unmarried women who worked at the factory.  Fantine had known of it, but had never considered living there.  When she had moved to Montreuil, she felt removed from the carefree girls who lived there.  She had had a lover whom she had once thought of as practically a husband, and now she had a little girl to support.  She had her life, and she had her secrets.  She had prided herself on her independence and privacy when she first arrived in the town, and of course later she would not have been eligible to live in such a home.  

Marguerite pressed Fantine’s hand, making her promise that she really would come and visit, and then took her leave.  Fantine wondered where she was headed - she had heard a rumor that the factory had shut down for the day.

Fantine walked up the stairs to her attic room, a smile playing on her lips.  She was grateful that she had decided to go out today, after all.  

***

Javert’s sleep was troubled that night.  He was able to fall asleep quickly enough, aided by his usual tendency to work to the point of exhaustion.  But then came the dreams.

He dreamed of Toulon.  The time spent in far Southern Karhide, in the encampment where, during the summer, convicts were set to work building the vast landships that would crawl their way across the frozen expanse of the Karhidish winters.  Javert had spent much of his youth as a guard there.  Javert often dreamt of Toulon - quite more often than he would have liked.  But this time was different.  Rather than the vague shades of the past and random conjurings of his mind, it was as if he were having a specific vision.  He dreamt of a convict who wore the face of the new mayor, curly brown-gray hair and neatly groomed beard looking incongruous in the convict’s red smock.  Who…  Who looked at Javert and smiled slightly in that quiet manner Monsieur Madeleine had.  No convict had ever smiled at Javert so.  But in the dream, nothing about this struck Javert as odd.  There was only an overwhelming sense of familiarity.  He knew - he knew who he was looking at - 

Javert shot up, a name - or rather, a number - on his lips.  He knew; he had remembered.  It was “ Le-Cric,” the strong man, the one called 24,601.  He groaned with annoyance.  Perhaps there was a God after all, and perhaps He was punishing him.  He flung himself back down onto the pillow, with something akin to petulance, but it was a long time before he was able to sleep again.

In the morning, Javert thought that after all, it changed nothing.  A dream, one whose intensity and crystal clarity was fading rapidly, would hardly stand up in court.  Even Javert’s certainty was fading.  He had felt so sure when he woke in the middle of the night, but so many years had passed since he had last seen that prisoner.  Any man might have aged, and changed.  And there was that other matter, the one that dated back to his time in Toulon…  He wondered if he could even trust himself where that convict was concerned.  Was this yet another of his mind’s betrayals?

Javert turned it over in his head once more as he prepared a cold breakfast and hot coffee, and made himself ready for the day.  He decided that there was nothing to be done at the moment, except to be more than ordinarily vigilant around the new mayor.  He would investigate the man’s background thoroughly.  Surely if there were any merit to his suspicions, he would find more evidence in time.  In the meantime, there was work to be done.

Javert had first arrived in Toulon green and unproven, without family or personal reputation.  He was nineteen, nearly twenty, or so he told the man interviewing him for the position as an assistant guard.  Near enough, anyway.  He had been given the job on the spot.  

There was very little formal training for the role of assistant guard.  Javert was handed a cudgel on his first day, and sent out among the prisoners.  He reported to a senior guard in the same sector, Lavigne, a man about ten years older than him.  The job was a wearing one, but he found that it suited him well enough.  Javert followed instructions quickly and to the letter, and had learned the routines of the prison quickly.

He also settled into the social hierarchy surprisingly well.  Javert had never been socially adept - it was a flaw he recognized in himself, but hardly knew how to improve.  But here, he knew exactly where he stood, and from that solid ground, he was able to present himself appropriately.  Even if it was not the most respectable milieu, Javert knew where he fit into it, and that suited him perfectly.  

In fact, many of his fellow guards were simply louts, but Javert considered his superior, Lavigne, to be a born leader.  He was quite tall, nearly as tall as Javert himself, and handsome in a way that Javert suspected must have been popular with women.  He was outgoing and genial among the other guards, a friend to his equals and a mentor to the new assistant guards.  Javert had become a particular protégé of his.  Lavigne appeared to be impressed by Javert’s dedication and commitment to a job that, frankly, the other assistant guards felt was beneath them.  Other men came to the job having failed at other professions or stumbled upon hard times.  For Javert, being on this side of the prison’s bars had been all that he had aspired to.  The other assistant guards occasionally showed their disdain for him, but for Javert, Lavigne’s good opinion was enough.

Javert’s comfort with his colleagues did not extend into their off hours.  The other guards, in the limited time off allotted to them, would often visit public houses in the nearby towns.  Javert did not care for strong drink, and he disliked everything that came with it.  He was not at home with raunchy talk, and never visited the town’s brothels, either alone or with his comrades.  

The prisoners themselves were even worse.  Visitors were not allowed at Toulon’s prison camp, but the men incarcerated there got into plenty of debauchery on their own.  Sexual violence, too, was rampant.  Javert intervened when he could, but he knew that not all the guards were so diligent.  Many regarded anything the prisoners got up to as their own business.  But unlike some of the guards, Javert held no real ill-will for the convicts.  He felt that they belonged in this captivity, but wished no additional harm on them beyond the terms of their sentence.  They were in their government assigned station, as was he.  He was neither sparing nor cruel with his cudgel.  

Yes, for the time being, Javert was in his proper place.  And in the future, if he served loyally, who knew?  Perhaps even one such as him might advance.  

***

One of the men on his chain stood out to him immediately.  The other men called him “Le-Cric.”  He was older than Javert - most of the men were - but not especially old.  Perhaps 30.  Clean shaven like all the other prisoners, wearing an identical uniform, moving in a forced synchronization with them, he nonetheless always managed to catch Javert’s eye.  He was sturdily built - his strength was written in his frame.  He was sullen and quiet; powerful but reserved.  There was a potentiality, a sense of barely restrained power.  Javert followed the lead of other guards, and would task prisoner 24,601 with the hardest labor, that which the other men would not have been able to manage on their own.  24,601 obeyed, with never a cross word for the guards, but there was something in his eyes that had not been broken.  It looked almost like hatred, mixed with a wildness that seemed to only increase during his captivity.  Javert had been frankly shocked the day he had asked about the man’s crimes, and found that he was only in prison for the theft of a single loaf of bread.  He had seen such a look in the eyes of a few lifers - murderers and career scoundrels.  

But still Javert found himself watching.  On an evening off, in a bit of youthful curiosity that he was unable to explain to himself, Javert looked up the man’s name in the prison’s records.   Jean Valjean.   

The next day, as his chain made their way to their day’s work, Javert noticed that very same prisoner was walking out of sync with the others.  He appeared to be lost in his own world.  Leaning in, Javert muttered “Pick up the pace, Jean Valjean.”  

He hardly realized what he had said.  But the man, Valjean, looked up, startled.  His brown eyes stared up into Javert’s.  For a moment there was no hatred or sullenness; the man’s whole demeanor had changed as if a spell had been lifted.   “You -” Valjean started, eyes wide and wondering.  Then he dropped his eyes as if he did not dare go further.

Javert stammered as if found out.  The entire chain had come to a halt as the other men warily looked around to see what the disruption had been. “Get moving!” called Javert, trying to collect himself.  

The next day, and all the days after that, he addressed the man only as 24,601. 

***

Although ambitious, Javert was not particularly prone to self-reflection.  But there had been a night when Javert had seen himself as he was.  Lavigne had gathered up a group of the younger guards, and was taking them out for a night of drinking and visiting a brothel.  He did this sometimes - the only one of his habits which Javert could find fault in. 

Javert had stayed in the barracks.  He tried to read an improving book that he had borrowed from a naval officer he had met in the town, but in the end, he retired early.  He flushed as he thought of what the others would be getting up to around now.  His growing arousal came as an inconvenience and an embarrassment.  As he rather reluctantly took himself in hand, he thought of what it must be like to be with one of these prostitutes, to have her in his arms as surely Lavigne was doing now.  He pictured Lavigne and this faceless, nameless woman of the town.  What lewd acts would he ask of her, how would he have her?  It was with a jolt of horror that Javert realized that he was picturing himself in this woman’s place: not fucking her manfully, but moaning underneath Lavigne.  He swiftly corrected his fantasy, but the image slipped, it wouldn’t hold.  Javert’s body knew what it wanted, and now it was calling his mind to attention.  He wondered how this could have happened.  

He was not blind to what occurred in the prison.  He could not be.  But this was a sin, he knew, and he only disgraced himself by wishing for it.  The fact that convicts did it could hardly be a justification. Perhaps this was a stain of his past that he could not wash away. 

He was more than his parents’ criminal past.  He had to remember that.

On the whole, in the light of day, it was not so bad.  Lavigne would not want him.  He would not be asked to give his dignity and what small virtue he possessed.  For the next week, though, Javert avoided Lavigne’s eyes and spoke to him only when necessary.  

***

Once he had settled into the routine of Toulon, Javert occasionally found that the work was not hard enough for his tastes. While watching the mostly rather obedient convicts go about their labor, there was little for him to do except reflect.  Arms folded, he watched as the convicts on his chain worked at the assembly line.  It was a dangerous business, since if one man made a mistake, several might be injured.  Nonetheless, this assignment was widely considered desirable by the prisoners, since for this work, the chains binding the men together were unlocked to allow them more freedom of movement and reduce the risk of severe injury.  Twice the normal number of guards were assigned to the group of prisoners, still referred to as a “chain”, during these times when they were unchained.  Thus, any hope that newcomers may have formed about escaping was soon dashed.  

Some of the guards, having little responsibility and plenty of company while the prisoners worked, chose to talk amongst themselves.  Occasionally two at a time would play cards, glancing up to make sure that all was well.  Javert disdained this practice.  He attempted to stay focused on his responsibilities, dull though they may be.  So he continued to watch over his charges.  

The prisoners build landships.  These landships were destined to haul cargo at a creeping pace across the frozen winter landscape. Once finished, they were owned by the government of Karhide, and by the largest of trading firms. Vast plows in the front cleared their way and broke a path which would allow the horses and small carriages of everyday citizens to follow in their wake.  Thus they formed the heart of Karhide’s transportation during the long winters.

Valjean - 24,601 - always got assigned to the heaviest work, and surprisingly made no complaint about it.  Alone, he lifted parts which should have required a team.  But perhaps it suited him.  The man was a loner compared with the other prisoners, rarely to be found talking or interacting.  

It had been a month since 24,601 had escaped, or rather attempted to escape.  He had been recaptured near the gates of the town of Toulon, bare chested after having abandoned his red smock.  Javert had heard that, despite his fearsome strength, he had come back peacefully when apprehended.  It was surprising, but in line with what little he knew of the man.  He knew that some of the men took advantage of their strength to bully the other prisoners, or worse.  Javert knew that 24,601 was not prone to these sorts of abuses. 

In fact, other than his escape attempts (the most recent one had been his second), 24,601 caused little to no trouble.  He kept to himself, to the degree that was possible in the crowded prison camp.  Some of the other prisoners made the best of their reduced social circumstances and formed couples or trios.  These liaisons weren’t punished - the thinking from the higher ups was that it would reduce escape attempts if the men formed these bonds with one another.  Javert disapproved of the practice, however.  The idea made him uncomfortable in a way he could scarcely articulate, but he felt it was wrong.  He knew that 24,601 had no regular partner in the prison, and felt that it was to his credit.  If he was driven by the same baser instincts that guided many of his fellow prisoners, at least he showed some discretion about it.  

Javert supposed that 24,601 would be considered handsome enough by his fellow prisoners.  He knew that the youngest of the new prisoners were generally the most sought-after, and there was nothing slim or girlish about 24,601.  But there was an masculine grace to him, strong muscles and the slight stubble that would grow in between the prison-mandated shavings, that would no doubt tempt those susceptible to it.  No, in the unlikely case that 24,601 were celibate, it would be by his own choice.  

24,601 lifted a large wheel, shifting it into place on the axle as his fellow prisoners gathered around and tightened the bolts now holding it.  Javert found he had been holding his breath:  he knew that this task typically took three men.  If he noticed as 24,601 lifted another wheel, well, it was his job to notice.  The day ground along.  His fellow guards talked amongst themselves, the prisoners toiled along, and Javert was a constant watchful presence.  

It was painfully dull for the guards, and terribly hard labor for the prisoners, and yet somehow the years passed like this.  

***

Shortly after Mayor Madeleine took office, Javert was formally introduced to him as the head of the local police.  The mayor was cordial and welcoming, and Javert was formal and serious. Seeing the new mayor again in the light of day, close, Javert had his doubts.  He knew it was ill-becoming of him to think poorly of a properly appointed agent of the king.  And besides, the resemblance was not complete.  The mayor had a quiet dignity which Valjean had lacked.  Physically, there was the gap of the years, and who knew how the convict would have aged?  Javert felt a vague unease as he eyed the mayor from head to toe; he reminded himself that this was a necessary part of his work.

Weighed against this doubt was his evidence against the mayor:  his unease and a dream.  His instincts told him that Monsieur Madeleine was the convict, Jean Valjean.  But his instincts could not be trusted on the subject of that Valjean.  They steered him in a direction that he scarcely liked to name:  it had been clear even to Javert that the prisoner 24,601 had fascinated him.  Plus, fifteen years had passed since he had last laid eyes on the man. He surely could not justify an accusation now, on so little evidence.  Instead, he would wait and watch.  Javert could be a patient man.  In this, at least, he did not doubt himself.

***

Mayor Madeleine glanced up from the paperwork on his desk, giving his tired eyes a break.  He had been handling the town’s business all morning, and it was nearly complete.  He sighed.  He glanced up to the rather narrow window, which let in enough light to work by day, but hardly enough of a view.  Madeleine was in general rather comforted by a view - he still found that being confined to a desk wore on his spirit.  Unfortunately for him, although it was growing late, all the paperwork for the factory was still waiting for him, on a different desk across town.  

He would not say that he liked being mayor.  There was a certain formality, and ceremony which he found did not suit him.  But there was the satisfaction of all the good that he would be able to do for the citizens of the town.  The money he had been able to bring into the town via the factory was one thing, but to be actually able to make public decisions on the running of the town… He could see his way forward.  There was so much more that he could do now than as a mere factory owner.  

The factory - he felt a twinge of guilt on the subject.  He had far less time to devote to it since becoming mayor.  However, he had absolute confidence in the people he had hired to manage it in his absence.  They would alert him if anything needed his immediate attention - after all, they knew where to find him.  According to the reports he was being sent, everything was running smoothly, and production was up 2% over last month.  (Even though he was less hands-on with the running of the factory, he liked to spend his evenings going over the numbers and double checking everything, and was aware that the figure was more like 1.9%)  It was pointless to worry about anything else right now.  

Also weighing on Madeleine’s mind was the issue of the police inspector - Javert.  It had not taken Madeleine long at all to recognize the man when he arrived in town.  He had recognized that incandescent stare.  The vague discomfort he felt, and that sense of being on the spot.  The man had a way of pinning you down as if you were an insect belonging to one of those educated men of science.  And the unusual name came right back to him.  It was a name from back when his own name was not Jean-Pierre Madeleine, but Jean Valjean.  Despite the years, there was no doubt in his mind that Javert was the same man.  

The obvious question remained:  did Javert know?  Evidently he must not.  He remembered a strict, by-the-rules guard who would not hesitate to arrest him if he had any suspicion that he was a fugitive convict.  But Valjean’s appearance had changed - for one thing, he had let his hair and beard grow out in his guise as Madeleine.  It was his habit to keep them tidy, but there was enough there to change the appearance of the lines of his face.  And Valjean had been only one among the many convicts whom Javert had worked with.  Surely he was not as memorable as all that.  

That only left the question of what Valjean was to do about it.  He would have called too much attention to himself had he fled the city without explanation.  Like it or not, he was a public figure now.  There was nothing he could do but wait.  Wait, and do the best he could for the town which had grown to rely on him.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



When Fantine made the decision one morning to go and visit Marguerite, as she had promised, she did it with the sense of careless optimism that had landed her in Montreuil in the first place, ready to make her own living and to define her own place in the world.  She had no idea that she would feel this way until she started out the door - it was a sudden impulse.  But she could not remember the last time her mood had risen like this. 



It was a Sunday afternoon, when the factory was closed and the women who worked there were likely to be back from church.  Fantine no longer attended, herself.  She could not bear what she imagined to be the glares of the righteous.  Besides, working on her own schedule, Sunday was just another day she could sew to keep up with her daughter’s expenses.  But today, she hoped, would be different.



She had hoped that Marguerite herself would answer the door to her lodging house, so that she would not have to explain her presence to anyone else, or risk further censure.  However, the young woman who opened the door at her knock didn’t seem especially curious, and Marguerite was shown to the door where Fantine waited.  Fantine couldn’t suppress a grin, showing her brilliant white teeth.  



Marguerite waved her inside, showing Fantine around and introducing her to the other young women living there.  After a brief look at the home, they went outside into the fine weather.  They spoke of this and that: Marguerite wanted to tell Fantine all about her roommates once they were out of earshot.  Fantine remembered a few of the women from her time at the factory, but she listened happily, hearing about them anew from Marguerite’s point of view.  Truth be told, Fantine had not been especially close with the other women in the factory.  Her heart had still been healing from her lover’s betrayal, causing her to withdraw, and worse, she had feared that she would let something spill about Cosette.  Now she wondered if she could open herself up to friendship again.



“Here,” said Marguerite suddenly, gesturing at a nondescript patch of dirt near the side of the lodging house.  Fantine couldn’t imagine what she was being shown.  “I’m going to build up this patch into a real garden this year.  It will be my project on Sunday afternoons.”



“What are you going to grow?”



“Some of this, some of that.  I really should grow vegetables and potherbs for the kitchen.  But I can’t resist flowers sometimes, you know?  I’m partial to snapdragons.”



Fantine nodded, not particularly sure what a snapdragon was, but liking the whimsical name.  She looked around.  There were already some small herbs and flowers in pots near the house.  



“Are those yours, too?”



“Yes, we cook with them sometimes.  We share meals here, and take turns doing the cooking.”



That sounded rather lovely to Fantine.  She was often unable to afford a hot meal, although she was certainly not inclined to volunteer that fact.  



They went back inside, and passed the rest of the afternoon companionably.  Neither of them knew how to read, but there was an ancient piano in the shared living room, and one of Marguerite’s roommates knew how to play.  She was playing this afternoon, and Fantine, Marguerite, and two of the other women joined in song.  



When Fantine finally made her way home, she knew that she must get back to her sewing and make up for lost time, but still she could not help grinning.  The trip had been more than worth it.  



***



Her visit to Marguerite easily turned into several.  Fantine was still a bit ashamed to show up at the lodging house where Marguerite lived, so the other woman would often come to find her at her house.  She would cast down her sewing and come join her, or sometimes, as they grew more familiar, she would bring Marguerite up to her attic room and they would talk there.  



When they went out together, mostly they walked.  Fantine had not been in the habit of taking exercise, or even any time outdoors beyond the bare minimum, and she found that it agreed with her.  Her energy increased daily, as did her mood.  Even her skin began to have more of a healthy glow.  If these effects were not entirely due to the exercise itself, Fantine scarcely noticed.  



In her day to day life, it felt to Fantine as though she sent every bit of money away for her daughter.  She could not afford to dine at the humblest of the town’s public houses, and she could not spare the money for fuel to cook on her own.  But she made due.  There were the ever-present small squares of premade food that were called ‘tack’ by the villagers.  They kept, and they required no heat, and contained enough nutrients to keep her going.  These were largely what Fantine survived on.  But she liked to eat ‘real food’ when she was out with Marguerite.  They would take a small portion of bread, one that Fantine would buy later in the day when the baker put the remainders on sale, outside to eat while they were walking.  Often Marguerite would bring cheese, fruit, or other foods.  Fantine felt embarrassed to accept, but there was always the pretense of them having both contributed to their meal.  It was comfortable enough, she supposed.



Marguerite liked to escort Fantine back home after their walks.  As they arrived at the steps of the house where Fantine stayed, a warmth would come over her that she could not quite name.  She had not felt the same way about any of the other friends she had spent time with in Paris: Dahlia, Zéphine, and Favourite. They had been more like casual acquaintances; there at the same place and time.  At the time, her attention had been all on Tholomyès.  Now she felt her heart open up to Marguerite.  To her surprise, her feelings for the other woman quickly became more like the ones she had held for Tholomyès than for her old friends.  She wondered at it, as she lay alone in her cramped attic.  But perhaps it was not a very strange thing.  Fantine’s heart gravitated towards love, and although she had not felt this way for a woman before, she felt little alarmed by it.  



The next time Marguerite walked her to her door, Fantine waited.  If put on the spot, she would not have been able to say what she was waiting for.  She would have hardly dared to hope for a kiss.  But as Marguerite embraced her to say goodbye, as was her habit, she lingered.  The warm air between them was like a spell - was it growing warmer?  Fantine caught the floral smell of her soap, and tried not to breathe in a deep breath. 



“Fantine?”



She looked up at her taller companion.  



“Have you ever thought - you and me?” asked Marguerite.



With Tholomyès, it had been a pursuit.  With Marguerite, it was a slow, companionable walk together.  She wondered if it could be so simple.  She wondered if she could be so bold. 



“I know, it isn’t quite done, is it?” asked Marguerite, taking Fantine’s silence for a no, and pulling away.    



“In Paris, I think, it’s not quite as odd.”  Fantine had heard rumors among the grisettes.  Everyone said that Germaine had gotten herself set up with an older society woman, and had done so well for herself. 



Marguerite beamed, and Fantine made up her mind.  



“Come upstairs with me,” she said.  



Hearts aflutter, the two women set about teaching one another what they needed to know.   



***



Their happiness was not to last.  Madame Victurnien got wind of their relationship, and followed Marguerite after she left the factory until she met up with Fantine.  Her joy at the potential scandal was nearly as complete as that of the two lovers upon seeing one another again.  



The next day, she summarily fired Marguerite.  A polite young woman should have nothing to say to a disreputable unwed mother such as Fantine.  Besides, there were rumors around the factory.  Madame Victurnien had ears, and she knew what they said about Marguerite.  She would have been very surprised if she had stopped at mere talk with a loose woman like Fantine.  



Fantine took the blow quietly, as she had withstood so many other blows in her young life.  Frankly, she was surprised that Marguerite had chosen to throw in her lot with her.  There was no chance that Tholomyès would have done the same for her, turning away from his fortune and public opinion.  Marguerite may not have had a fortune, but she had a perfectly dignified way of earning her own way, which was nothing for a young woman to turn up her nose at.  Now she had lost it, and perhaps now she must join Fantine at her sewing, or else try and marry.  



Fantine was relieved when Marguerite chose sewing.  The two began to meet up to work together, working late into the evenings sometimes and pooling their candles, stretching the light to last longer.



It wasn’t enough.  Fantine began to fall behind in her payments to the Thénardiers.  Marguerite moved in with her, and although the company was dearly welcome, it was also a blessing to save money on rent.  The two of them lived almost as cheaply as one, sharing their dreams of better times to come as they laid in their shared bed.  But even this form of happiness was not to last.  The Thénardiers demanded yet more money for Cosette’s care.  



“Dear, go and get the girl!” said Marguerite.  “We will take care of her ourselves.  It surely cannot be as expensive as all this.”



Fantine let the dream wash over her momentarily, then shook her head.  “I can’t.  I can’t afford the trip, for one, and for another, how could I ever ask my Cosette to grow up in such a dark garrett as this?  She has a whole inn to play in now, and the most charming little girls for her playmates.  They must be as good as sisters now.  When I do go to get Cosette, it will be when the time is ready.”



Marguerite tried to argue, but Fantine was adamant.  It would have hurt her more than she could say for Cosette to have seen her in this poverty.  For she still trusted that the money she sent represented the true cost of caring for Cosette, and thought that her financial predicament would be little better with her there. Then came the letter claiming Cosette was ill, demanding more for Cosette’s life than Fantine thought she had to give.



***



Javert returned to the station house, removing his hat as he entered the door.  He had just returned from his weekly scheduled meeting with the mayor.  His mind was not at ease.   



His instincts continued to trouble him when it came to that man.  He could not for the life of him figure out if it were really the convict Jean Valjean he was seeing when he looked into the mayor’s kindly, rather well-intentioned face.  Madeleine always listed off a great deal of little things that he wanted Javert to look into at these meetings, and when he was in a more cynical mood, Javert wondered if he was trying to obstruct him from investigating real crime.  



“Inspector Javert!”  The young sergent de ville Rivette ran up to him, excitement written on his expressive face.



“Yes?”  Javert wasn’t alarmed yet; he considered his second in command to be a very excitable person.  



“A real emergency, sir.  A group of bandits have ambushed the diligence from Paris as it came through the mountain pass.”



This caught his attention immediately.  Little enough happened in the town of Montreuil.  Javert attempted to do all his duties with honor, but he couldn’t help but feel that inspecting streets and arbitrating disputes about gutters had not been his reason for entering the police.  



The diligence from Paris was the main connection that Montreuil had to the wider world.  People typically traveled by horse; cargo traveled by truck.  Creeping, uncomfortable, and vastly more expensive to operate, the trucks lumbered their way along the wider roads of Karhide.  Passengers generally chose the much more affordable horse drawn diligences which ran between the cities on regular schedules, or took private carriages if they had them.  



“They stole the very horses from the diligence to make their getaway!” Rivette continued.



“Was anyone harmed?” Javert asked calmly.



“Not seriously.  They roughed up the conductor pretty badly, but he will recover.  He has been escorted to the doctor’s house.  I told him to make a report here when he’s ready - I’m expecting him any time now.  Other than that, two of the passengers were quite unable to make the journey on foot. The driver had to send a cart back for them upon arrival in the town.”



“You’ve spoken to the witnesses?” Javert had hung his hat absently while Rivette spoke.  



“Yes, except, of course, the conductor, like I said.  And the two remaining passengers - they haven’t arrived in town yet to the best of my knowledge.”



“Then what do we know about these bandits?”



“Very little, sir.  They wore masks, and there was nothing extraordinary about their dress.”



“Number?” asked Javert impatiently.



“The passengers could not even agree on how many of them there were.  Their stories range from eight to ten -”  Javert whistled as Rivette continued.  “I think it was a bit of a melee.”



Javert thought of the distance between the town center, where the police station was located, and the mountain pass.  “Well, I suppose there is no use in trying to reach them now - they will have long since made their escape.  Come into the office and tell me everything,” he said, beckoning to Rivette.



This changed everything.  Surely the mayor would understand the need for a shift in priorities.  Not even he could justify focusing police efforts on trivialities when there was such a danger to the local populace.  Unless… and there was that treacherous thought again.  Unless Madeleine himself was somehow involved in the crime.  If Javert was right, if he was really Jean Valjean, what was a treasonous idea became unsurprising.  As he shut the door behind himself and Rivette, Javert swore that he would see to this investigation himself.  



***



In the end, for all her superficial reserve, Fantine was a much harder woman than was Marguerite.  She knew what she must do in order to ensure her daughter’s survival.  She registered herself as a woman of the town.



Of course, Fantine had to tell Marguerite.  Marguerite was angry, and hurt, and Fantine was adamant.  She had not made this choice lightly, and having made the decision, she remained absolutely firm.  She was an oak in the storm.  There was never really any doubt that she would get her way.  Because in the end, it wasn’t about getting her way. In the end, there was only Cosette, and Cosette must survive.  Everything else were details, and Fantine would not let herself hesitate over that too much now.  



Fantine was an oak in the storm, and Marguerite prayed as hard as ever she could that the winds would not overtake her, that the lightning would not find her where she attempted to stand upright. 


This is not meant to be based on the 2018 BBC adaptation of Les Mis. However, I needed an OC for a few scenes and could not resist using their charming OC Rivette. So here he is!


Madeleine watched as the door shut behind Inspector Javert after his regular report.  With a slight exhale, he returned to the communications on the desk in front of him.  It was not that he was uninterested in Javert’s progress against the bandits.  He shared Javert’s concern that the group might turn more violent at any time, and that lives might be lost.  However, he trusted completely that if it were possible for them to be brought to justice, Javert would do it.  The man was diligent (a grim memory of tireless pursuit from Valjean’s second escape attempt asserted itself…) and knew his business.  However, he could not agree with Javert that it was the largest threat to Montreuil.  Madeleine believed strongly that there was something much more dangerous facing the region.  



He knew that although the town itself was not large or wealthy, it had acquired a good deal of geopolitical significance.  Montreuil lay near Karhide’s northwestern border with neighboring Orgoreyn, and the relations between the two countries were tumultuous at best.  The surrounding fields contained a type of fossilized resin valuable in Orgoreyn’s nascent plastics industry.  Karhide had yet to make extensive use of the substance, and recent sanctions had guaranteed that there was no legal way to sell the resin to Orgoreyn, and so miners sold their product for a much lower price domestically.  Naturally the resources made the land very valuable to Orgoreyn. And in addition to the recent value of the resin, there were the many acres of fertile farmland surrounding the river.  



Furthermore, there was the history of the region.  The area west and downslope of the mountain pass had traded hands repeatedly between Orgoreyn and Karhide over the decades.  When control of the land had shifted, it had not been peaceful.  Deep resentments were harbored on both sides of the river that now marked the border between the two countries.  As surely as the desire for natural resources was growing on one side, a bitter nationalism was growing on the Karhidish side.  A hatred for everything Orgorta was currently in vogue.  Although Karhide had no standing army, the reserves had begun to drill regularly, and signing bonuses tempted more and more young men into a love of country.  



But it was hardly unanimous.  A large number of people in both countries were no doubt in favor of peace.  Valjean counted himself firmly among them.  He knew that everything he had done for the town would most likely be for nothing if war were to break out.  The people would be killed or scattered; their homes, farms, and businesses destroyed.  They were simply too close to the border - they would not be spared. 



Valjean was working on a project that he hoped could turn things around.  He hoped to develop a way of synthesizing the fossilized resin in order to make the naturally mined substance superfluous.  It had so far eluded him, but this project occupied many of his free hours.



He supposed that it was not strictly legal, to be working on a project that would directly benefit Orgoreyn.  But this concerned him little.  It must be said that love of one’s country was foreign to Valjean, beyond a love of the land itself on which he lived, and a concern for the people who shared it with him.  Other than that, Valjean felt very little drive to act in the interest of Karhide - a country which, after all, had deemed him a dangerous criminal and in which he was wanted for life.  Madeleine put on a show of patriotism when necessary, but he was sure that the Orgorta could not be as bad as the rumors depicted - they were merely people, same as in Karhide. 



Madeleine put his desk in order cursorily, and then left the mayor’s office for the factory, where in a small workshop his alloys and resins awaited him.   



***



Over a month had passed, and Javert allowed himself a sigh as the sergeant of the soldier guards made his way out of the office.  His report had confirmed that there had been no further progress made in apprehending the bandits who continued to plague the surrounding countryside.  Now, few people dared to make the trip through the mountain pass without a guard contingent, but it was the prime time of year for merchant travel and danger would not completely deter commerce.  The problem was thornier than it might initially appear.  The length and rugged terrain of the pass made it difficult to patrol effectively. The bandits could effectively disappear into the surrounding rough countryside after a raid, and so far pursuit had not been successful.   



But now the situation had escalated, and Javert could afford to lose no more time.  Emboldened, the bandits had come down from the mountains and robbed and burned a small hut belonging to a widower on the outside of town.  The tenant had been out, and unharmed, but this and their other attacks left little doubt of the violence the gang was capable of.   Now the lives of the local villagers were threatened, as well as their property.  Javert thought that it was only a matter of time until the bandits turned murderous.



Javert’s mentor and patron, Chabouillet, had sent a telegraph asking Javert for an update.  The man was a highly placed secretary in the King’s government in Paris, and although he had taken an interest in Javert’s career, Chabouillet was very busy and wrote to him infrequently.  His communications stood out; caught Javert’s attention amid his busy days.  Apparently the notoriety of the bandits had made its way to Paris, and Javert had no doubt that his patron expected him to get the situation under control quickly.  



He would have to take another approach.  Someone would need to infiltrate the bandits, to learn of their plans, and then lead them into an ambush.  The soldier guard lacked the subtlety needed for the job. It was an easy decision:  he would do it himself.  



That having been decided, Javert wasted no time.  He got up and spoke with Rivette, who made a few protests but nothing that Javert chose to really take time to acknowledge.  Rivette would be in charge of things around the station house until Javert returned.  He did not trust Rivette’s skills at undercover work enough to send him to infiltrate the bandits, plus the assignment was too dangerous (Javert showed little enough concern for his own life).  Rivette would do a fine job taking care of things in his absence, Javert told himself.  



There were preparations to be made.  Javert went to a barber, who was rather confused by his requests, but cut his hair short and shaved his whiskers off.  He intended to pretend to be a runaway convict, fresh from the prison camps where he would have been subject to mandatory shaving.  He was surprised by the pang he felt when he watched the hair hit the ground - he wore his hair past his shoulder blades and had gotten used to it being there in a tidy queue.



Then there was the matter of transportation.  The local police department owned no truck, even if the conditions would have been appropriate for one of the slow, unwieldy vehicles, and Javert owned no horse.  On the rare occasions when he made the trip to Paris, he took the diligence, or before his current position, when he was especially strapped for money, he would take a seat on one of the giant commercial landships.  This would not do.  He must approach the bandits on his own.  He could walk to the mountain pass, no hard task for someone used to long shifts on his feet.  But he might need to cover ground quickly, and to keep up with mounted riders.  Yet the terrain would be hard on a horse…



He rented a mule from a livery stable owner who seemed happier than he had any business to be to see the animal go.  The bony, bad tempered bay had been named Star, presumably for the white emblazoned on her forehead.  Javert had never ridden a mule, and it had been long enough since he had ridden a horse at all, but he supposed it could not be very difficult.  He affixed the small bag of supplies he had brought to the saddle, and swung into the seat.  



Star took two steps to the side, evaluated her new rider, and refused to go further.  Cursing, Javert tapped harder with his heels, and off she went.  He was not a skillful rider and was already regretting this mule.  But they set a steady pace along the road to the mountains, Javert reminding himself how crucial this mission was at every jerky step the animal took.  



***



Javert rode up the mountain pass, until he was well within the area in which the bandits were known to operate.  He must not have been an appealing target, since no one accosted him.  Eventually, as the sun started to fall, he turned Star around and retraced the ground he had already covered.  He went off the main road, looking for any small trails that may have been established by the bandits.  From witness reports, they seemed to operate both on foot and with the horses they had stolen from the diligence, so that did not help narrow down the type of trail he was looking for.  



Javert followed several side trails, coaxing Star along the sometimes rough terrain.  Nothing seemed especially promising.  



Gradually, Javert noticed the signs of horses, hoofprints on the increasingly well worn trail.  He passed a pile of very fresh looking manure. Excitement began to tug at him - there weren’t wild horses in the area, and they were far from the main road.  He had to be nearing the bandit’s camp.  No wonder that the men hadn’t been caught yet.  The terrain was rough, and covered in scrubby brush.  If he had approached with more men under his command, any group of bandits would see or hear them first and be able to simply melt away into the brush.  Javert was counting on appearing nonthreatening.



Just as he was thinking this, four men stepped out from the brush, hands on their weapons.  Two carried axes, one a long dagger, and the closest man carried a long foray gun - the kind that shot lead bullets.  Javert had left behind his police-issued weighted cane, and carried only a rough bludgeon he had bought and a small pocketknife.  He raised his hands in a gesture of surrender.



“What’s your business here?” asked one of the men, the one holding the gun.  He didn’t have it aimed at Javert, but he made a small gesture with it as if to say that he could. 



“I’ve been recently from Toulon - I had heard that perhaps a man could find work here,”  said Javert.  With his uniformly short hair and the lack of any whiskers, the lie was believable.  



“That depends, I suppose.  What kind of work do you think you are able to do?”  The one man was doing the talking for the group of bandits.



“Whatever’s asked of me.”



“Well, I like that, anyway.  Come closer.”



Javert hopped to the ground, and still holding Star’s reins, approached the apparent leader of the bandits. 



“Show me your papers.”  



Javert cocked his head.  “You know how it is.  I got out of Toulon all right, but not the way that gets you any papers.”



The men laughed.  “All the better.  Don’t you worry, I think you will fit in fine here.  Come with us.”  The leader turned and started down a narrow trail which would oblige them to walk single file.  “What should we call you?” he called back over his shoulder.



Javert hesitated.  He had forgotten to come up with a false name, and he was terrible at lying on the spot.  However, there was a chance that they might recognize his real name.



“
Émile,
” he said, hoping he sounded convincing.



“All right, ‘
Émile
’.  There’s some others of us who don’t like to use our given names, either.”  



Some of the tension left Javert’s body.  This was nearly as good as them believing him.  He gathered up Star’s reins, and followed behind the leader, mule trailing behind him.  The other three men fell into place behind them, in a way that could be considered menacing.  He was certainly surrounded and outgunned, so all that was left to do for now was to go quietly until they reached the main camp in a small ravine.  



The camp was very unassuming.  An area had been cleared out of the brush, with a central fire and a few tents.  Six additional men were there, lounging around.  Two of them came out to greet the returning party.



“Any luck?” one of them asked.



“Not today,” said the leader of the men Javert was returning with.  “Got a new recruit, though,” he said, gesturing to Javert. “Says his name is 
Émile.
”



There was a little grumbling at that - apparently some of the bandits didn’t like the idea of sharing the diminishing returns with another party member, but it was decided that Javert could stay.  After all, they had very little choice at this point unless they were to decide to kill him, and they did not yet have a reputation as murderers.  The bandits introduced themselves to Javert, and invited him to join them for the dinner of stew that they had prepared over the central campfire.  He hitched up the mule with the horses, and then joined them for what turned out to be a rowdy night.



***



The next week was wild for Javert.  He slept on the ground at night, tended the camp, and went out with the other men on patrol.  Most of all he kept his ears open.  Luckily for him, he was not put in any situations where he was forced to participate in a crime or lose his cover.  



The most difficult part was the isolation.  He had not known that it would affect him in this way, to be so completely cut off from potential allies.  Javert had always considered himself a bit of a loner, even when working with others was necessary for his job, and so he had not thought that this would be a stretch for him.  He found himself feeling almost…lonely though.  He missed the interaction with his coworkers, who, although he was not close with them, could at least be trusted not to murder him.  He could scarcely admit it to himself, but he even wished for the weekly reports he would make to the mayor.  The security of having a superior to report to, and receive orders from, was more alluring than Javert cared to admit.  



There was a sense of unease that had come over the bandits.  Lately, it seemed, they had been much less successful.  The general feeling was that this was because locals were getting to be more aware, and arming themselves against the bandits:  traveling in larger groups, skipping travel at all, and more. Targets became scarce.



Perhaps because of this, the leaders of the bandits (for it turned out that there was an ambiguous group of several leaders, rather than one single person in charge) gathered everyone up one day and went over the plan that they had formed to raid a larger home on the outskirts of town.  This home was much larger than the old hut they had burned earlier, and both the risks and the profits promised to be greater.  



Javert felt as though every muscle in his body were quivering.  He was desperately excited, caught between anticipation and dread.  He was on the verge of a breakthrough, but he had no way of arresting this many men on his own, or of communicating to the other police officers.  He could not let this crime take place.  If only there was some way to pass along the word to his men. 



Luck was on his side, however. The plan was to rob the house on Sunday, when the occupants were at mass.  Several of the men had become rowdy and restless by Saturday afternoon, however, and were already worse for drink.  Javert took a few very small sips himself in an attempt to fit in, although he felt no comradery with the bandits.  He dreaded social situations like that - for that is what this had become.  It was as if they were replaying scenes from Javert’s youth in Toulon, with the other guards.  Only the scenery and the state of dress had changed.  



Soon, most of the other bandits were in a loud state of drunkenness, calling back and forth to one another.  The conversation had turned raunchy, further alienating Javert, but he felt as though he should throw comments into the mix.  Soon, one of the men suggested visiting prostitutes - there was a low brothel in the poorer side of town where they might not stand out too much.  Despite his disgust, Javert agreed: here was his opportunity to send along a message to the police. 



***



After the trip down into town, and the raunchy exchanges which were rather louder than Javert thought was wise, now came the part he was dreading.  After his companions had all chosen women and retreated to slightly more private areas of the house, Javert knew that he must make a move.  A woman then returned to the main parlor accompanied by a client.  She was attempting to tidy her golden hair.  Under other circumstances, she might have been considered beautiful, Javert thought with surprise.  Javert liked the weary look in her eye - she would likely welcome the proposition he had for her. 



He approached her.  “Miss, a moment of your time?”  He was not clear on how exactly one solicited a prostitute; he should have paid more attention to how the other men managed.  



She turned and shot him a blank gaze.  “Of course, monsieur,” she said, already turning back around.  “Come with me.”



This was simpler than Javert had thought.  He followed her to a small room.  Apparently a warren of smaller rooms had been constructed within the house’s existing rooms using makeshift partitions.  A small bed and a washbasin was all that the room contained.  Javert would have liked to see pen and paper, to scribble a message, but he could only hope for so much luck.



The woman began to remove her worn dress mechanically.



“No, no need,” he said, sure that he was blushing, and angry about it.



She turned to face Javert, readjusting her dress.  “How do you want it, then?”



“Let me just talk with you for a minute.”



“One of those customers…look, I don’t have all night,” said the woman with her arms crossed.  “If you want to talk my ear off, you’d better be willing to pay for it.”



“I am, just…”  he gestured for her to come closer.  The walls did not look soundproof, and although judging from the muffled sounds coming from around him, his bandit companions were otherwise occupied, he must not risk being overheard.



She stepped closer.



“I’m not here for what you think,” Javert whispered into her ear.  “I’m a police inspector, and I need to send a message to my colleagues.”



“That’s a new one.”



“Nevertheless.  You will do it?”



“What’s your message?”



Javert quickly described his predicament, including the address of the house which was the intended target.  He gave his orders for the soldier guard to be there in force, hiding as much as possible to take the bandits by surprise.  



“Can I trust you?”  Javert asked.  “I need you to find Sergeant Rivette; he should be at the police station starting at eight tomorrow morning.  Tell him everything that I told you.  He will take care of it from there.”



“I will do it,” stated the woman.



“What’s your name?” he asked.



“Fantine.”



Javert nodded, and paid Fantine three times the standard rate.  Such generosity wasn’t his default, but he still needed to be able to count on her to relay the message.  And he wanted to get out of there with as little fuss and haggling as possible.  



Fantine took the coins and stared at them for a moment.  “And you don’t want…”



“No.”



She sat down on the edge of the bed, running her hands through her hair tiredly.  “You religious?  Or maybe you prefer men?”



Javert glared at her furiously.  “I’m on duty.  Shouldn’t you be grateful you aren’t ‘on duty’ as well?”



“You know, I am rather grateful, now that you mention it.  I was a respectable woman, you know, not always like this,” said Fantine.  



Javert could not be bothered to feign interest - he was currently wondering how long one should spend with a prostitute so as not to cause suspicion.  He missed her next few words, until something caught his attention.  



“Until that 

mayor 

turned me out. Everyone idolizes him, but I’ve seen what he really is.”



Javert fixed her with his rather intense stare, and Fantine stopped. “Go ahead,” said Javert, “What exactly is our mayor?”



Fantine’s look was defiant.  “There’s nothing more that he can take from me.  I don’t know what you hope to gain from asking me, but it’s still not against the law to dislike the man.”



“No, it’s not against the law,” agreed Javert. He waited, trying not to betray his eagerness to hear what she had to say.



“The mayor is a cruel man.  He turned me away from his factory because of my daughter - I have a daughter, monsieur. She doesn’t know how I must make a living, poor thing, but I must be able to earn enough money to pay for her keep and her medicines, and sewing wasn’t enough for that. Not with the cost of medicine what it is.”



Javert felt vaguely put out.  He had been hoping for something a little more damning than unkindness to a former employee, if he were honest. 



“ - and that’s his doing.  It’s not right, that honest working women should be pushed into this life, and you can tell that mayor I said so!”  Fantine’s voice had been raising, and she spat on the floor.  



“Quiet now,” Javert said gruffly.  Everything about this interaction had become enough for him.  “I think we’ve been here long enough.  I’ll bid you good night, madame?  Remember:  Rivette, in the morning.”  



“I’ll remember,” Fantine promised.



Javert made his way self-consciously out the door and down the stairway.  He met up with his temporary companions downstairs, and when all seven of them had regrouped, they made their way off into the night. 



The ten men in the gang had four horses between them, plus Javert’s mule Star.  The horses were skittish, none having been originally saddle horses, and uncomfortable on the rough mountain terrain in the faint dawn light.  The party moved slowly, so as not to outpace the men on foot or trip the horses on the rough descent.  Star alone seemed at home carrying her rider, and Javert frequently had to rein her in.  The headstrong animal picked out her own path and heeded him very little, and it was all he could do to keep her at a walk.  



The scenery gradually transitioned to rolling hills with grazing livestock, and eventually to flat fields.  The band of men passed several small farmhouses as they moved steadily towards the outskirts of town.  By now the sky had brightened considerably and it was full daylight.  Onwards, until they saw the house that they were targeting.  It was the largest they had seen so far, and it stood alone next to its barn and outbuildings.



One of the leaders of the bandits reined his horse around roughly, saying, “I don’t see that fine carriage of theirs, they must be gone for church.  Remember, we are here to do a job.  If anyone gets in our way, you know what to do, but don’t go looking for a fight.”  



There was general agreement. The undisciplined group was on edge, and Javert worried that it would come to violence if and when the police arrived.  If the police didn’t arrive - well, he just had to hope that the prostitute had conveyed his message faithfully.  



One bandit was left to hold the horses, two unloading sacks which had been affixed to the saddles, while the remaining ones approached the porch of the house, Javert with them.  They held knives and clubs at the ready.  



Javert gave a wordless call as they reached the house, making several of the bandits turn around in fury. 



“What is wrong with you?” one of them hissed.



But he had barely spoken the words before Rivette and the soldier guardsmen emerged.  They came from the other side of the house, and an ornamental lane of hedges, quickly surrounding them.  



It was all over relatively soon.  Only the one of the leaders of the bandits owned a gun, and with their foray rifles, the soldier guard was clearly more powerful.  It was ten to twelve; or rather nine to thirteen counting Javert.  They made no resistance.  Had the bandits been a little less alarmed, and a little quicker on their feet, they might have realized more quickly who had betrayed them.  As it was, several of their glares settled on Javert as they glanced around frantically.  



“Drop your weapons,” ordered Rivette.  The soldiers raised their rifles and took aim.  



The bandits lay down their weapons reluctantly, and half of the soldiers rushed in to collect the weapons and round up the bandits.  



“Are you all right, monsieur?” Rivette asked Javert, as the soldiers were handcuffing the bandits.  



“Perfectly,” said Javert, watching the scene with approval.



“Short hair suits you,” Rivette commented with a shy grin.  



“The truth would suit you better,” said Javert, but without venom.  He rather liked his subordinate, but never knew what to make of comments like this.  At times he wondered if…he scarcely liked to think it.  Rivette was a good man, even if he was unmarried.  He would not entertain the type of thoughts that kept Javert up at night.  And though Javert himself may have been troubled by unwanted thoughts, they were not of Rivette.  They could do this, would 
continue to work together with honor.



“I’m a truthful man, monsieur.  And I’m - happy to see you are safe.”



Javert nodded curtly, and decisively added “Back to the station with this lot.” Javert didn’t notice Rivette’s small sigh as he turned back to the rest of the men.   



***



That afternoon, Javert would have to make a report on the arrest to the mayor personally.  The thought made his stomach flip.  He dreaded it, and he wanted to make a display of his confidence to this mayor at the same time.  If there was any chance that the mayor was what Javert thought he might be, it could only do good to have him see justice being done.  If the worst had already occurred, and the mayor himself was somehow involved in the bandits’ schemes, all the more reason to make sure he saw what would happen to wrongdoers in the town of Montreuil.  



But when he actually reached the mayor’s office, Javert found himself uncharacteristically short of words.  He had not rehearsed what he would say - the urgency of the case and his need to make a report had not allowed him to compose what he would say in advance.  



Mayor Madeleine, however, seemed not to notice.  In his usual straightforward but quiet manner, he listened to what Javert had to report without interrupting.  At times, Madeleine seemed distracted during Javert’s reports, but this time, he regarded him with his full attention.  Madeleine’s full attention was a softer creature than Javert’s hard stare, but nonetheless, Javert found himself fidgeting under it.  Javert in his discomfort had omitted the message sent from the brothel from his initial telling of the story.



“But how did you send word to your agents?” asked Madeleine, picking up on what was missing.  “There’s no way you could have sent a radio signal from the mountains, not with a handheld unit anyway.”



“An opportunity presented itself.  My erstwhile companions visited a brothel last night.” Perhaps if Javert had been less embarrassed he would have noticed Madeleine’s own discomfort.  “I took the opportunity to send a message to Sergeant Rivette with one of the women who worked there.”  



“That was good of her to help.  Perhaps we should thank her in some official way…Would a cash gift be appropriate, along with my formal thanks?”  Madeleine shuffled his feet, fidgeting slightly.  



“Perhaps hold off on the formal thanks.  She did 

not

 like you.”  Javert’s respect for authority did not allow him to smirk as he said it, and he regretted the comment and his tone as soon as it came out of his mouth.



“She…had we met?  I don’t know any of the…well, you know…”  Madeleine looked as though he had no idea where to look. 



“She claims that you fired her from your factory for having a child out of wedlock.  She blames you for her current…situation.”



“I -” Madeleine looked taken aback.  “I have never done anything of the sort.  If she would have only come to me, surely - I’m sure we could have figured this out.  What was her name?”



“Fantine.”



“Fantine,” repeated Madeleine.  “Very well.  I will see to it that some restitution is made to her.”  Visibly refocusing his attention on Javert, he added, “Excellent job, Inspector.  Take the rest of the day off, get some rest.  You have no doubt earned it.”



Javert unconsciously rubbed the short beard growing in wild on his cheeks, and wondered how bad of a sight he must look.  It was a shame that he had not had the thought to make himself more presentable before an official meeting such as this, but he supposed the delay would not have been justified.  But he hated to have the mayor see him in such a state.  



“Thank you, monsieur.”  Javert also hated to appear weak, but it would not do to contradict the mayor’s wishes over such a small thing, and anyway the idea of a bath and shave sounded heavenly.  He left with an awkward, uncomfortable bow to Madeleine.  



***


Madeleine sat back into his chair as Javert left the room, but was unable to relax.  The apprehension of the bandits should have been a huge weight off of him, but his mind wouldn’t quiet down long enough to appreciate any sense of relief.


He had been on a wild ride since the disheveled inspector entered his office.  Madeleine had been startled by Javert’s appearance: the man was normally dressed plainly but tidily.  And his sudden haircut was certainly unexpected.  Madeleine had thought that the rather old-fashioned long queue of hair suited Javert, and was startled to see he had cut it off.  But he knew the inspector’s dedication to duty, and it didn’t particularly surprise him that Javert would do whatever he felt was necessary to capture the criminals he was after.  Madeleine unconsciously ran his hand through his own hair, thinking of the prison haircuts he had undergone, that Javert was trying to mimic.



But whether he was tidy or, for the first time, a mess, Javert always instilled fear in Madeleine.  In that man’s presence, he felt he ceased to be Madeleine at all and became only Jean Valjean.  Just the sight of him took Valjean clear out of the life he had created and back to Toulon, where he had been known only as a number.  He would will his breathing back to normal; painstakingly relax the muscles of his stomach.  He never felt like this was enough.  Javert would notice.  Javert was a predator sniffing around for weakness, and Valjean waited for a strike that didn’t come.  



Until and unless Javert saw fit to make a move, though, Valjean would continue to be Madeleine.  He would deal with this new problem, the situation with the woman - Fantine.  Javert’s story had horrified him.  Madeleine found the idea of prostitution distasteful, while having the utmost sympathy for women forced into this way of living.  Javert had not described the brothel in which he had met Fantine in detail, but he had heard of it in the course of his mayorship as a low place filled with desperate women.  It was an evil that he had not yet managed to eliminate.  He had to do something - if it was true that someone at his factory had really fired her, then it was his responsibility.  He had to find a way to make things right. 



He got up and headed for the factory, intending to get the truth out of his supervisors there.



***



Javert relaxed back into his ordinary life, as much as Javert could be said to relax.  There was no serious crime to occupy him at the moment, now that the bandits had been arrested, and much of the work was routine.



Madeleine insisted on commending him in public for his service to the town.  Despite the mayor’s own typical lack of interest in pageantry, he pinned a medal on Javert himself during a small ceremony.  For his part, Javert kept his face studiously blank while Madeleine’s hand skimmed his breast, and ignored the small flutter rippling through him at the touch.



With little to occupy him beyond routine building and traffic inspections, Javert found himself devoting more thought to the mayor.  He looked into the man’s past, but every avenue was a dead end.  This only increased his suspicions - this was not the trail of a well-loved public figure with nothing to hide.  But Javert had no hard evidence, nothing to act on, and at night his dreams betrayed him.  His dreams were confused, full of desire, heat, and yielding, and in them, Javert felt he lost all moral high ground.  



***



Fantine had been shocked to see the mayor at her door; still more shocked to hear why he was there.  



“You must believe me when I tell you that I never knew that you had been turned out.  Surely there was some mistake -” he continued to speak as he got no response from her.



“No mistake, that horrible Madame Victurnien told me that I was fired.  What, are you going to tell me next that you didn’t know that Marguerite was let go?”  Fantine stood there defiantly, still not inviting the mayor inside.



“Marguerite?”  The man looked confused.



“Unbelievable.”  Fantine shook her head.  “My - friend; she was fired for associating with me.  Not for anything that she did herself.”



The surprise and sadness on his face looked genuine, she had to admit.  “Clearly I have been neglecting what goes on in the factory.  Trust me, madame, I was not aware.”



“Fine lot of good that does me.”  



“I admit it was my mistake…please, I will make it up to you both.  May I come in?” 



Fantine hesitated.  Her home was nowhere near in good enough shape to entertain the mayor, and more importantly, Marguerite was upstairs, sewing shirts.  The simple attic apartment where they lived was only one room, and only had a single bed.  “We live upstairs.  It’s really not much…”  She paused again, then made up her mind.  “I beg your pardon, but can we speak here instead?”



“Of course, if you are more comfortable,” said Valjean, dropping his eyes. 



Fantine was surprised by the seeming shyness of the man up close.  She had taken his quiet demeanor for haughtiness on the few occasions she had seen him about the town.



Was it possible that he did not know that she was a mere prostitute?  She knew that some of the other women of the town talked about him, wondering how he liked to get off.  They were intrigued by his handsome looks, his mysterious life, and his great wealth, and the fact that he was never known to visit prostitutes only increased their speculation.  They wondered crudely about everything from whether he had a secret mistress, whose identity no one had found, to the size of his cock.  One brasher woman said she wouldn’t be surprised if he fucked men, he was so secretive about his private life (the others had hushed her angrily).  Talking to him now, Fantine doubted that such speculation could be true.



“As I said, I will make it up to you,” he continued. “I will speak to Madame Victurnien about this right away, and you shall both have your jobs back if you want them.  I trust that you will allow me to pay the wages you would have been owed had you been working this whole time.  More - the circumstances to which you have been reduced…” Valjean shook his head.  Unless he was an exceptional actor, his remorse seemed sincere. “Your daughter will go to the new school, of course.”



“Monsieur, she lives in Montfermeil.  She is staying with an innkeeper.”  



“You do not wish her to be here?”



“Of course I do!  But the cost of travel, to retrieve her, and I would not want her to see the circumstances in which I live…”



Madeleine waved his hand.  “Consider it done.  I will pay for you to retrieve her, and to move to a more wholesome living situation.”  



Fantine found herself smiling against her will.  Could it really be so simple?  She wanted more than anything to see her Cosette again. And for Cosette to be able to go to school!  She had not thought that it would be possible for her, but what a marvel it would be for her girl to be able to read and write.  She and Cosette and Marguerite could be a family of sorts. It was the culmination of a dream which she had scarcely dared to dream.  



***



In the end, it was as Madeleine had suggested.  After he sent them the money, Marguerite and Fantine leased a small cottage outside of the edge of town.  They’d had enough of the town and its malicious gossip.  When they came out to see the cottage for the second time, after signing the lease, Marguerite had been in such a playful mood that she attempted to pick up Fantine and carry her across the threshold.  Fantine giggled, utterly unlike her normal serious mood. 



They moved in, furnishing the two bedroom cottage sparsely with what small amount of furniture Fantine had not sold off when she had lost her job at the factory.  The two women talked about how they would improve the place over time, with Marguerite returning to the factory to make a better wage.  Their plan was for Fantine to stay at home and care for Cosette, continuing to sew shirts to supplement the household’s income.  There was no question that Fantine would be quitting her night job.  



As soon as she had gotten everything set up at the cottage, Fantine went to retrieve Cosette.  Fantine traveled by diligence over the mountain pass, now a relatively pleasant trip in midsummer.  By happy chance, the diligence stopped for the night at the same hotel at which Cosette was living, and Fantine was dropped directly off at her destination.  



Fantine had not bothered to write ahead.  For one thing, she was unable to write at all.  This would spare her the expense of the public letter writer and the postage, and after all, it would scarcely arrive there sooner than she would herself.  Her heart raced with joy as she saw two little girls playing outside of the inn, absorbed in their own little world, but she quickly realized that neither was Cosette.  Cosette must be inside, then.  



She made her way to the door of the inn along with her fellow travelers.  It was more run-down than Fantine had remembered from the over three years since she had last been there.  The innkeepers had clearly anticipated the arrival of the diligence, and were finishing making all as clean as possible.  



The other travelers made their way straight to the tables and benches, no doubt looking forward to dinner, but Fantine was occupied only with finding Cosette.  There.  There was a small girl, who looked to be around five (the right age), wiping down the last of the tables with her rag.  On a second glance, it was clearly Cosette, although she was much changed.  Her dress hung halfway up her calf; far too short for her.  Its material was little better than the rag she used to push dirt around the tables.  



Fantine felt the beginnings of anger rise in her.  At the rate she was sending money, Cosette should have been well-provided for.  Why, in their letters, the innkeepers were always bringing up how much she was growing and how much they were spending on new clothes for her.  The girls outside had been dressed simply, but in clothes which fit them.  The contrast was unmissable.  



“Cosette, my dear!”  Fantine called out.  



The girl looked up, startled.  She did not relax, remaining wide-eyed and staring at Fantine.  But Fantine had caught someone else’s attention, as well.  



“Fantine!” called out Madame Thénardier, coming over quickly. “What a lovely surprise to see you.  Come to visit your little lark?”



Having taken everything in and come to a conclusion, Fantine was not in the mood to trade pleasantries with the woman.  “I’ve come to take her home with me.”



“Take her ‘home?’  I’m afraid that won’t be possible,” said Madame Thénardier with a look that she may have imagined was conciliatory.  



“I’m her mother.”



“Be reasonable.  You’ve practically abandoned your child, now haven’t you, and you sending along barely enough money to keep her fed.”



“I should think I know the cost of food better than that,” she said angrily, eyeing the skinny girl.



“And, no offense, but how are we to know that you will be able to care for her?  We’ve grown attached to the girl, you see, and we need to make sure that she will be cared for.”  



“Let that be my concern.”



Madame Thénardier huffed.  “If you’ve come into money lately, the least you could do is offer to pay some of the extra expenses that Cosette has been causing our family.”  



Fantine was losing her patience.  



“What’s this about, then?” asked Thénardier, approaching from some back room or another.



“‘Madame’ Fantine here wants to take the Lark.”



“What?  It simply can’t be done,” said Thénardier.  “She’s too attached to our little girls: they are like a band of sisters.”



Fantine no longer believed this for a moment.  What’s more, she was feeling emboldened by the knowledge that the mayor of Montreuil was behind her.  “I will leave here in the morning, and Cosette will be coming with me.”  Were it not for the schedule of the diligence, she would have set out right away.  As it was, Fantine was obliged to spend the night at the inn to catch its return in the morning.  



“Again, it cannot be.”



Fantine stepped closer, staring down Thénardier.  “I am her mother.  I will be taking Cosette with me, unless you would like for me to take this up with the police.”  Fantine sensed a scoundrel, and her words had the expected effect.  



“Well,” he huffed. “If you insist on taking the girl away from the only family she knows, I suppose that I can’t stop you.”



Fantine decided that it was not worth her while to argue further, when, after all, she had made her point.  Both Thénardiers went off in a huff to serve Fantine’s fellow travelers, who had begun to stare. Cosette had been watching the back and forth solemnly.  Fantine wondered how much she had followed, as she knelt down to talk to the girl on her own level.  



“Cosette?” she called.  The girl came over cautiously.  “Do you remember me?”



“No, ma’am,” she said.



“I’m your mother.  I’ve come to take you home with me.  You’ll like that, won’t you?”  Fantine continued as Cosette glanced around at her surroundings.  “You will have a nice home in the country, and free time to play?  You will be able to go to school, even.”



“Are you really my mother?” said Cosette incredulously.  “It’s just that I was told my mother was a good-for-nothing, and I wouldn’t be seeing her again.  You’re very pretty.  Madame did not tell me you were so pretty.”  Cosette raised her hand to Fantine’s golden hair.  She had almost shorn it off to help pay what she owed to the Thénardiers, but the hardened ladies at the brothel had warned her that business wouldn’t be as good for her without her hair.  She suppressed a shudder, but felt everything she had gone through melt away as the girl touched her hair.  



“Yes, I’m really your mother.  I’m so sorry that I left you here.  One day, I will be able to explain it to you.  For now, just know that I am here now and I will never leave you again.”



The answer seemed to satisfy Cosette.  “Let me show you my doll,” she said.  Fantine got up, and followed her to a back room with a small pallet on the floor.  She picked up a small wooden child’s toy sword, wearing a crudely sewn dress.  “This is Julia.  I made her dress myself.”



“Hello, Julia,” said Fantine sadly. She had not thought that Cosette would be living in luxury, but everything she had seen had been so much worse than she had thought.  The sooner she could get her back to Montreuil, the better.  She no longer had the slightest doubt that what she was doing was the right thing for Cosette.  



Fantine spent the night in one of the inn’s guest rooms, and Cosette shyly asked if she could move her pallet into the room with her.  Fantine told her yes, and requested extra blankets to make sure she was as comfortable as possible.  In the morning, she paid her bill quickly and without complaint. Although she rather suspected the bill was padded a bit, it was not padded past all limits of custom and believability.  



The trip back was a rough one in the packed coach.  Cosette chattered away like a bird, charming the other passengers nearly as much as she charmed Fantine.  



Once home, Cosette proved adaptable, and thrived in her new environment.  She quickly grew to love her mother all over again.  What’s more, she loved the countryside.  It was summer, she was free to play for once, and she was loved.  She chased butterflies, turned stones, and gathered flowers all day while Fantine watched her and worked on her sewing.  Then Cosette would run to her mother to report on everything she had found, still full of childish wonder despite everything she had been through.  Cosette became extremely fond of Marguerite, as well.  As for Fantine, she had not known such happiness since her first flush of love with Tholomyès.  She had finally found home, and a family.



Spring turned to summer, and while on a long patrol one day, Javert caught Madeleine 

swimming 

of all things.  It was extremely rare for the local citizens to be able to swim at all, in part due to the short summers this far north, and Madeleine appeared to be a powerful swimmer.  Javert had not seen anyone swim like that since his time in Toulon.  He stopped, watching the nearly naked man make solitary laps back and forth in what Javert supposed must be a quiet part of the small river, a tributary of the Ey River.  He remembered the time that Jean Valjean had escaped by swimming straight out to sea.  By the time that the guards had found a boat and set out after him, he was gone.  He wasn’t recovered until later, in a nearby town that had been alerted to the convict’s escape.  The man had apparently swum over a mile in the open ocean to evade capture, and it had nearly worked. 



Now, Javert realized that he was not breathing, and set about deliberately to correct that.  He took in the surroundings, looking at the short trees, the clay and silt of the riverbanks; looking at anything but Madeleine.  Javert was not in the habit of admiring nature, but now as he cast his attention around he noticed the green of the lush vegetation, the birds’ songs, the hum of the short-lived early summer insects, and the sounds of the river itself.  It had evidently slowed since the spring thaw - no one, regardless of how strong a swimmer, would brave the rushing current and the icy temperatures at that time of year.  The thick growth of vegetation around the edge of the water concealed Javert from view.  



Javert was torn.  He desperately wanted to get closer, to check for any of the scars from his time in the prison camp that he might be able to see if the man were truly Jean Valjean.  Unfortunately, he could not justify getting close enough to see.  Surely it would not do for a town’s police inspector to intrude on the privacy of its mayor, even if he did have his suspicions.  After a short period of hesitation, Javert had turned away and headed back for the town.  



He supposed that, after all, there was no reason that the mayor should not swim in what free time he had.  The shame lay only in the police spy who watched him.  He must say nothing, but he filed the incident away with the rest of his suspicions.    



***



Javert continued to meet with Madeleine for regular reports.  His suspicion of the man only grew with time, rather than quieting down.  He felt that he could not go on this way, but there was no resolution in sight.  He had done everything he could think of to attempt to look into Madeleine’s background, only to run into a wall each time.  Which should not have happened; there should be some record of the man, but Javert knew that a lack of evidence would get him nowhere.  



Another conflict soon arose between them.  The bandits were tried together in Attin several weeks after their capture, and Javert was of course called in as a witness for several days of the trial.  He served his duty perfunctorily.  Based on his testimony, along with that of Rivette and a number of victims and witnesses, the verdict was a forgone conclusion.  As he had known from his time among the bandits, many of them were repeat offenders or escaped convicts.  For some among these men, that would likely mean a death sentence. 



Mayor Madeleine arrived at the end of the trial, to Javert’s great surprise.  There was no obvious reason he should do so.  He took his seat near the front of the courtroom, dressed in his Sunday best.  The court had already heard all of the evidence against the bandits, and it was damning.  Madeleine had arrived in time to hear the verdict. The bailiff read out the names of all the bandits, then proclaimed that all had been found guilty.  Anger and defeat warred across the faces of the bandits where they sat.  After a short break, the court reconvened.  The lawyer for the prosecution laid out the circumstances for sentencing each man.  



“Gauthier,” read the lawyer, working his way down the list.  “Two time convicted felon, sentenced to life imprisonment in Rochefort.  Escaped.”



Madeleine stood unexpectedly, drawing all eyes to him. 



“If I may have a word with 
Monsieur le Président
?” asked Madeleine.



The judge appeared not to know what to say.  “Monsieur le Maire, this is highly irregular.”  



“Nevertheless.”  



“Go on, then,” the judge said, making a slight gesture with the gavel.



“I came here today to plead the cause of mercy.  I know what you are getting at, with listing the crimes of these men.  We all know what we expect the sentences to be for some of these men.  This Gauthier: you would throw his life away.  But none of these men have committed capital offenses.  It’s not just that you should sentence them now for what they have done in the past.  They have already served their sentences for those crimes.  Let them be judged with new eyes for their current crimes.”



Yes, thought Javert, so that they may merely escape again and return to their old habits.



“No doubt the double-chains await them,” continued Madeleine.  “That is regrettable, but Montreuil must be protected.  But it need not be at the cost of anyone’s lives.”  Madeleine continued to speak simply but elegantly in front of the court, making his desperate plea.  



Javert stewed, so agitated that he barely took in what Madeleine was saying.  It was not his place to speak up against a judge and a mayor, no matter how much he felt that justice was not being carried out.  In the end, of course, with Mayor Madeleine being as loved and successful as he was, his point of view swayed the judge.  It was as he said, and the bandits were sentenced to life in the prison camps, with the exception of two young men, first time offenders, who were given ten years each.  The fact that Javert had put his own life on the line to obtain these arrests apparently counted for nothing.



On his way out of the courtroom, Madeleine caught Javert’s eye, and smiled apologetically.  Well he might.  Javert fumed privately, then collected himself and followed him out.  



Outside, Madeleine was watching the approach of a rather handsome carriage.  Javert recognized it as the one belonging to the office of the mayor, rather than to Madeleine himself.  



“Ah, Inspector Javert,” Madeleine said with the slight half-smile that Javert had come to associate with him.  



“Monsieur le Maire,” said Javert in acknowledgement, not looking at him.  



“Seeing the case out?” 



“I’m only doing my duty.  I was called to testify.”



“Of course,” said Madeleine.  “I imagine that you will be wanting to get back to Montreuil as soon as possible.  Please, come with me.  There’s plenty of room in the carriage, and you can get me caught up on your work.”  Javert had missed a regular meeting with the mayor while out in Attin giving testimony.  



“No need, I’m more than capable of waiting for the diligence.” 



The carriage pulled up to the curb.  “I insist,” said Madeleine, and before Javert was able to protest further he was being swept into the carriage.  It would have been unseemly to resist.  



Inside, Javert sat down opposite the mayor, arms crossed and utterly closed off.  Madeleine rapped twice on the wall behind him and the carriage started off.  



The air between them felt thick and oppressive, and Javert felt himself unable to begin the report that Madeleine had requested.  Typically, when they met, it was in the large mayoral office.  Now they were cramped, crowded together in the tight, dark space of the carriage.  Javert felt an itching sensation under his skin as he became increasingly desperate to escape.  



“Your report, Javert,” Madeleine prompted into the heavy silence.



“Yes,” he said, attempting to collect himself.  “I filed the case against the negligent carter, as you requested.  There has been no real crime since the arrest of the bandits.  One case of vandalism that we are not able to track to the perpetrator.” Javert lacked his usual volubility that characterized his reports.  It did not occur to him, shut off as he was, that he would normally have told Madeleine that the damaged fence in question had contained a bull which had then, upon being able to break out, worked its way through the neighbor’s garden, causing a great outcry and leading Javert to explain to the irate cottager that he could not arrest a bull.  He did not have the opportunity of watching the smile on Madeleine’s face spread slightly as he explained that the bull had proved docile enough and been delivered back to its owner by several of the soldier guard.  “A few complaints about the roads - typical of this time of year.  I filed the necessary reports.”



Madeleine nodded his acknowledgement. “A quiet week.  It is best when there is little to occupy you.”  



Although of course Javert had to agree with the sentiment in theory, it annoyed him to hear it now.  They rode on in silence for a little while longer.  



“Permit me a question, monsieur,” Javert asked eventually, with greater formality than was characteristic of him.  “Why were you here today?  Sentencing for those men was outside the bounds of your authority as mayor.”  



“Out of my authority - perhaps.  Not outside the bounds of my interest.  I believe you heard my reasoning.”  Madeleine’s tone made it clear he did not wish to discuss it further.  



“Your interest.  What exactly is your interest in this case?” asked Javert angrily, knowing as soon as the words came out of his mouth that he had crossed a line.



“You overstep yourself, monsieur,” said Madeleine with a warning in his voice.  “I see that you are offended by my interference, but I must follow my conscience.” 



“As must I,” growled Javert.  He would stand down, but he would not apologize.  



They sat in silence for the rest of the ride back to Montreuil, which took several hours, Javert brushing aside the curtain and watching the landscape go past.  He stole occasional glances at the mayor, who was brooding.  Javert was certain that Madeleine must be regretting giving him a lift, and was perversely pleased by the thought.  He did not want there to be too much familiarity between them.  



Not that there was much risk of that.  In the days that followed, Madeleine was nearly apologetic with Javert, and Javert was more formal with him than ever.



***



In the days after the trial of the bandits, Javert had overcome his reservations about denouncing Madeleine.  He felt confident that he was making the right decision. If there was a little resentment burning in his heart, so be it.  He judged that he was still acting professionally.  



He carefully composed a message to Chabouillet, and sent it via telegram to Paris. He waited outside the telegraph office for an inordinate amount of time.  He eventually told the telegraph operator to send word to him immediately if anything arrived, and returned to the police station.  He would have Rivette take his place on patrol that day so that he could be easily found when Chabouillet responded. 



The day crept slowly by, and soon turned into another one.  Javert had barely gone home to sleep, and then barely slept once he was there.  At his desk the next day, he sipped bad coffee and caught up on all the agents' reports.  Eventually, the messenger from the telegraph office arrived.  He handed Javert a carefully folded sheet of paper.  Javert’s hands shook slightly as he roughly unfolded the message.  It simply read, “Hold off on action until a formal investigation. -C”



He froze.  He had to think.  Why would Chabouillet have delayed replying so long in order to say so little?  Perhaps he had not dared to risk putting more into a telegram.  It was true, it was not the safest means of communication.  But that did not explain everything.  What did he even mean by a “formal investigation?”  Surely the court trial that would take place after the arrest of Jean Valjean would be formal enough.  They should certainly start the process by arresting him to ensure that he was not able to make a run for it.



Or perhaps he did not believe Javert’s story.  That would seem to be the most likely conclusion, after all.  It was his word against the reputation of a well-loved appointee of the king.  Javert liked to think that Chabouillet valued him and his record of service, but there would be no doubt of who would have greater credibility in court.  



Doubt began to creep in.  Was there something that Chabouillet knew which he did not?  Out in the rural town of Montreuil, Javert had no way of being sure whether or not Jean Valjean was even at large.  For Chabouillet or any highly ranked Parisian officer, it was simply a matter of checking the central records.  It might very well be that Valjean was already safely in prison, and that he was throwing his own career away on a fool’s errand.  



For surely that is what he was doing.  Would he really be allowed to keep his post if he had made a false accusation against a beloved mayor?  Even if so, how would he be able to live with himself?  As the day dragged on, he became more convinced that his motives had been impure.  He had written to Chabouillet in anger, and that was surely a sin of pride and wrath.  The last time he had seen Jean Valjean for certain had been nearly fifteen years ago, and of course this man Madeleine was not identical.  Javert’s personal feelings of discomfort hardly counted as evidence, and he should have done more to push them aside.  



Javert resumed his patrols that afternoon, but the downward spiral of his mood continued.  He was in the grip of a maelstrom.



***



Two days later, while Javert was still stewing, Madeleine received a letter from Paris by courier, written in an unfamiliar hand.  It was the most extraordinary letter he had ever read, and at first he could not believe what he was seeing.  



“My dear Mayor Madeleine,



I have not had the pleasure of having been introduced to you, but let me assure you that your reputation has reached us here in Paris.  I am well aware of all the good you have done for the town of Montreuil, and I admire you for it.



For this, I hold your best interest at heart, and so I will be as blunt as the situation demands.  You have been identified by an agent of the police as the convict Jean Valjean, currently wanted for robbery and breaking parole.  The reputation of your accuser is irreproachable, and he offers strong testimony.  Were you to be brought to court, additional witnesses would be brought to trial.  I ask you to consider, in all honesty, whether this accusation is true.  There is nothing to be gained, and everything to be lost, if you were to fight a losing battle in court.



My advice, and I urge you strongly to take it, is for you to leave Karhide entirely.  The police will be in pursuit of you, you mustn’t doubt it, but they will not dare to follow you to Orgoreyn.  All extradition has lapsed between our two countries, in light of recent hostilities, and you will be safe across its borders.  Name a successor, withdraw as much money as you can on short notice, and leave.  A man of your talents will be able to prosper in Orgoreyn, and I fear that our loss will in this case be their gain.  



Please consider what I have told you, and act quickly.



Sincerely, 



A Well-Wisher”



Valjean was floored.  The identity of Madeleine, which he wore like a cloak, fell off of him and left him feeling utterly exposed.  Of course, he had feared that this day would come.  He knew that there were men who might recognize him from his time in the prison camp, prisoners and guards alike.  Ever since he first saw Javert’s familiar face in the town, he had felt that his time had come.  But why on earth had Javert not said anything until now?  For even now, he had no doubt that the police agent who had denounced him was Javert.  But why didn’t Javert arrest him directly?  



Moreover, who could have possibly written such a letter?  The writer must have somehow had access to communications within the police, possibly someone in the highest ranks of the police, seeing as how the letter came from Paris.  Why would such a person have mercy on a thief who had broken his parole?  And they had stated that it was no one he knew…



With a wariness borne from his failed escape attempts, Valjean considered whether this could somehow be a trap.  But he could not see what the advantage would be to warning him if someone did intend to arrest him.  And even if this were somehow a trick, he could not see how he had any choice other than flight, or returning to prison.  Either option would mean that he would no longer be able to shepherd the town.  That particular choice had been taken out of his hands as soon as he had opened the letter.  



But in that moment, Valjean’s survival instincts were kicking in.  Javert would not let go of him once he was on the trail, he was certain.  Whatever else you could say about the man, no one could question his determination.  Valjean had been unaware of the change in extradition policy between the two countries.  Madeleine held no particular loyalty to Karhide as a country, despite his position granted by the king.  Perhaps he would be able to start a new life in Orgoreyn.  His heart beginning to race faster, he felt that he had no choice but to try.  



Valjean had planned for an eventuality like this, although of course the letter was a detail he could not have foreseen.  He located the trap door in his office, opened it, and pulled out the pack.  In it was a change of clothes, a bag of tack, various odds and ends that had occurred to him as being useful for a life on the run, and a rather substantial amount of cash.  He dared not go to the bank - the errand would risk him encountering Javert or one of his agents.  Bag in hand, he hesitated.  Should he wait for the cover of night, or leave now?  



Anxiety had him in its grip, in a way that it never had since his wild dashes for freedom from the prison camps of Toulon.  At times like this, there was nothing left to do but run, no matter what the cost.  Javert might be coming at any moment, and in the end, that was what decided things. He crumpled and burned the letter, and stirred the ashes.



Valjean took off, pack on his back and weaving down side streets.  He said goodbye to no one, and left no arrangements behind.  He reached the stable where his horse was boarded, saddled him himself, and urged him on into a run on the road leading out of town.  If his haste could be seen as suspicious, so be it.  Anyone likely to regard him with suspicion would already be on his trail, and so there was nothing to gain and everything to lose by slowing down, even if his nerves could permit him to move more slowly.



The occasional passerby raised a hat to him, recognizing the mayor, no doubt, but Valjean ignored them.  Word might reach Javert about his urgent flight, and he needed to be as far gone as possible by then.  He headed for the Ey River which currently formed the boundary between Karhide and Orgoreyn.  



It was a hard, three hour ride to the river, taking the back roads, and he was not able to maintain a gallop the whole time.  As the horse slowed down, the surrounding countryside seemed to slow down as well waiting for dusk to fall.  The area looked intensely peaceful.  There were scattered farmhouses here and there along the road, and even an inn which he passed quickly, but on the whole Valjean saw little traffic.  He knew that the sense of peace was deceptive:  some of the farms had been abandoned due to the threat of war, with their owners moving further into Karhide.  These fields grew wild, or were grazed by their neighbors’ cattle.  As grateful as he was to not encounter anyone now, Valjean still considered this a great shame.  



He now had time to think about how he would cross the border.  He had no papers that would allow him to cross legally.  Being wanted by the government of Karhide was not enough to allow free entrance into Orgoreyn.  



He considered abandoning the horse and swimming across the river in a deserted spot.  Night was falling, and it was possible that he would not be seen.  But it would be better if he could take the horse, too, he thought.  Surely it would be helpful to be able to travel quickly once he reached Orgoryen.  He would travel to their capital city, Mishnory, where he would be able to disappear into the Karhidish expatriate community.



The greatest part of his fear was behind him, and planning gave way to brooding.  His abandonment of Montreuil weighed heavily on him; more heavily than he would have expected.  There was a paternal side to Valjean which had never found an outlet, except in his care for the citizens of Montreuil.  Not that they were children - surely they could fend for themselves - but he could see how they had benefited from his time as mayor.  Despite Valjean’s humility, he was aware that few people in his position of power would show such concern for the people he governed.  



Valjean finally reached the river, in a flurry of emotions.  Relief predominated, but there was also sadness to be leaving his home country, and concern about whether he and the horse would even be able to make it across.  The twilight made it much harder to select a part of the river where the crossing would be relatively safe.  He finally found a relatively peaceful looking section, loosened the horse’s saddle, and led him into the water.  The horse was reluctant at first, but eventually Valjean coaxed him into the water, leading by the reins.  He led the horse until the water grew deep, and then began to swim.  The horse paddled along behind him, following his lead.  The water was bitterly cold, but it was an uneventful crossing.  The horse slipped while regaining his footing on the other side, was startled, and nearly shied into Valjean, but neither was injured.  



After a moment’s hesitation, Valjean decided to return for the pack.  He swam carefully, no longer having the horse to anchor him if needed, but although he was aware of the power of the river, he was a confident swimmer.  He crossed the water again and retrieved the pack, holding it above the water as best he could.  



For a moment, resting on the opposite shore, he was full of relief.  Then reality sunk in.  He might be past the legal reach of Javert and the rest of Karhide’s police, but night was falling, he was soaked, and there was still the very real danger of hypothermia.  He quickly set about building a fire from the bramble growing around the river and the flint in his pack.  It took a while to get the lush summer vegetation burning, and he was shivering by the time the flames were putting off any considerable amount of warmth.  He tethered the horse near the fire, and watched the flames, brooding and unable to sleep.



***



The day after Valjean’s flight, Javert was due to give a report to him at noon.  However, he was unable to find him, and Javert became immediately suspicious when he saw the empty desk chair.  For all his other potential criticisms of the mayor, he had not known him to miss a meeting before.  He hunted down the servant who maintained the mayor’s offices, and confirmed that Madeleine had not been seen coming or going that day.  Furious, Javert told the confused servant to notify him immediately if Madeleine was seen.  He might not be permitted to arrest the man, but he hated to see him escape from under his nose.  



Javert went by the factory next, where the foreman confirmed that the mayor had not been in that day, and then to Madeleine’s home.  The housekeeper was much more reluctant to talk with him than the others had been, but she was quite intimidated by Javert and he finally got it out of her that Madeleine had not been home the previous night, and that he had not left word about where he was going or for how long. 



This confirmed the sinking feeling that was consuming him.  Somehow or another, Madeleine had gotten word of Javert’s suspicions, and fled.  It was too late.  Javert stamped his booted foot down heavily, overwhelmed with anger.  If only Chabouillet had not interfered…



Even in his anger, Javert had the presence of mind to wonder if perhaps a family emergency, or something personal, had called Madeleine away on short notice.  But he very much doubted it.  He had made so many inquiries into the man’s background that he was convinced the man had no living family; none with whom he was in contact, anyway.  And surely if that had been the case, Madeleine would have left word with a servant or his housekeeper.



There was nothing for Javert to do but return to the police station. When he got there, there was a short woman in unfamiliar livery waiting for him.  Javert was sure that this didn’t bode well.  



“Can I help you,” he asked, not making it sound especially like a question.



“Monsieur, a letter from Paris.  I have been tasked with delivering it to Inspector Javert.”



“I’m him,” he said, fishing out the standard police identification card which he carried in his pocket.



The messenger looked him over briefly.  “Yes, I suppose you would be,” she said, and after looking at the pro-offered card, handed over a surprisingly thick envelope.  



Javert thanked her, puzzling over what this could possibly mean.  Perhaps it was somehow about the formal investigation into Madeleine which he had been promised? It must be from Chabouillet - who else from Paris could possibly be contacting him?   But the envelope was unmarked.   He made his way into the office, and shut the door.  He carefully tore the envelope:  he rarely had correspondence and could not justify owning a letter opener.



He immediately recognized 
Chabouillet’s dense, careful handwriting.  He always liked to hear from his mentor and patron, although it was a rare enough occurrence.  This time, the letter was lengthy even beyond what Javert had assumed from the weight of the envelope.  He read over its contents once quickly, and then again slowly.  



Chabouillet offered extensive congratulations on the successful outcome of his case with the bandits.  He was delighted to know that they were apprehended before anyone was killed, and that trade had been able to resume normally through the mountain pass.  In light of this, he said, he was hoping that Javert would be willing to take on a special assignment for him.  He had spoken of the case to his colleagues (Javert noticed that Chabouillet did not mention any names), and they had been in agreement that Javert would be ideally suited for an assignment as a political spy.   They were not in the habit of recruiting political spies from among the domestic police, but there was a particular assignment which they had in mind for Javert.



Javert paid less attention then perhaps he should have to national news, but even he knew that the region surrounding Montreuil was rapidly becoming a powderkeg.  Chabouillet laid out the situation, some of which Javert was already aware of from reading newspapers when he could.  The High Council of Orgoreyn had recently elected a new premier to head their government.  This had been preceded by weeks of bitter debate between the different parties and factions that made up the government there.  These debates had been watched intently by Karhide.  One of the parties, the Red Faction, was notoriously in favor of war with Karhide, and had they gotten their way with regards to the premier, it would have almost certainly heralded an invasion.  As it was, it was a very narrowly run thing.  Tensions were still running very high in Orgoreyn.  The summary referred Javert to the included detailed lists of the High Council members, along with details on their party affiliations, loyalties, and any known weaknesses they had.



The role of the Orgorta secret police, nicknamed the “Sarf”, was of particular interest to Chabouillet and his associates.  The Karhidish government, including even the intelligence community, knew little about the organization. It was suspected to play a role in the shadow side of government in Orgoreyn.  Agents of the Sarf were not publicly identified as such, and their work and any arrests they made were clandestine.  Rumors from Karhidish agents had suggested that the power of the Sarf was growing.  This was the first time Javert had heard of such an organization, and his gut feeling was disapproval.  The law should have no need to hide itself.  



All this was preamble.  Then came the part of the letter that really rankled.



“You recently sent to inform me that you believed the Mayor of Montreuil to be the convict Jean Valjean.  I have no doubt that if you say so, it is the truth, however unlikely.  I took the liberty of checking the records on this convict.  As you know, he is very crafty.  I have no doubt that he is already out of your reach, most likely having fled to Orgoreyn.  We can take advantage of this fact.  You will pursue him there, under the official pretext of hunting for a dangerous wanted man.  In truth, you will be there to seek information about the military readiness and political machinations of Orgoreyn.  This must be your first priority.  We need to know everything that can be found out about the Red Faction.”  



“You will remain in contact with your colleagues at your existing police post.  Write to your second in command regularly, and receive letters from him.  You will use a coded series of phrases to communicate with us.  I have enclosed them here for your review.  Make sure that you memorize them and do not take them to Orgoreyn with you.”



Several other pages were included - the promised enclosures.  Javert set them aside for the moment, and sat back and thought.  He had never aimed to become a political spy.  To the degree he had ever thought of it, he certainly had thought that he lacked the connections in government.  Truth be told, the whos and hows of government mattered to him less than the idea of law and order, and he preferred his current role as a police spy.  



Moreover, it bothered him tremendously that Valjean had escaped.  To use his recapture as a mere pretense…Surely he would not manage to capture Valjean while still staying within the confines of his mission.  It went against all of his instincts to feign a pursuit.



But if this was what was being asked of him, there was no doubt in his mind that he would do it.  He owed his loyalty to Chabouillet, who had secured him a position in the police in the first place.  Javert had the highest amount of faith in his patron, and if Chabouillet thought that he was the right person for the job, it must be true.  Besides, the wording of the letter indicated that Chabouillet had little doubt about his response.  He began to pen his reply.



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Javert arrived in Orgoreyn not much longer after Valjean, although he took a much less circumspect route.  There was a primary road which spanned a major bridge between the two countries which he took, although it was very little trafficked these days.  Friendly communication had long since given way to hostility on both sides.  Very few people in Karhide had friends in Orgoreyn, and vice versa.



He presented his papers at multiple inspection points along the way, and had undergone a detailed interrogation at the border.  This would have proved aggravating to many people, but there was something about the commitment it showed to law and order that soothed Javert.  Even though he did in fact have something to hide from these officials, his cover story was strong enough, his papers were genuine, and he felt confident and self-assured as he moved through these checkpoints.  He then took the diligence from the border to the sprawling capital city of Mishnory.  



He arrived in Mishnory while the cool summer sun beamed down.  Mishnory was known as a cold city, regardless of the time of year.  Winter was hard and long, and the buildings were designed to keep the heat inside, not to let the sun in during the brief summer months.  Javert was once again stopped near the edges of the city by an official, and asked to show his papers.  He obliged, explaining his mission there and asking for help locating the nearest police station.



He had thought about this on the trip over - what the best strategy would be to go about finding the information that Chabouillet had sent him for.  He would have to make a decent show of being in Mishnory for his stated reason, the capture of Jean Valjean, and in order to do that he would seek out the police.  From there, he would try to locate agents of the Sarf, and get as much information as he could from them.  He was certainly in no position to present himself in the halls of the Orgorta government right away, and once again he had to wonder why Chabouillet had chosen him for this mission.



The official checking his papers was reasonably friendly, for an Orgorta official, and she directed Javert to the nearest major police station.  He tried to follow her instructions, going on foot down the convoluted streets bordered with their steep walls.  Just when he thought that he had become lost, he noticed the sign of a sword and shield, indicating the Orgorta police.  



Javert walked into the building confidently.  A receptionist of some sort stopped him to ask him what his business was.



“May I speak with whoever is in charge here?” Javert asked.



The receptionist hummed slightly.  “And may I ask who you are, and what your business is?”



“Certainly,” said Javert, taking the receptionist’s rude manner in stride.  “I am Inspector Javert, of Karhide, and I am here to catch a dangerous fugitive, and remove him from Orgorta soil.”



“Very well.”  The receptionist turned, motioning Javert to follow.  They arrived at a fine office - far finer than Javert’s own, or even than Chabouillet’s.  Books lined the walls, and the furnishings appeared to be sturdy antiques, although Javert certainly knew little enough about such things, and he saw traces of gilt. A man looked up from his papers, and did not speak, but his glance spoke volumes.



“I won’t trouble you for much of your time, sir,” said Javert, using the Orgorta honorific.  He stood up straight and spoke with rehearsed precision.  “My name is Inspector Javert and I have been sent here by my superiors in order to recapture a dangerous criminal who has fled to your country.  I believe that it will be in the interest of both of our nations if he is captured and brought to justice.”



“I see. And what were this man’s crimes?”



“Sir, he is a thief - a recidivist.  I believe him to be capable of great violence due to his unnatural strength.”



“A thief, you say?”  The man looked skeptical.  “But then again, the law is the law.”



“Just so.  A principle I have always been committed to upholding.”



“Well, I will not stand in your way, Javert.  You will move freely in Orgoryen.  However, you will understand that I cannot commit any of my agents to helping you,” said the man, settling backwards into his seat.



“Of course.  I had not presumed to think that you would.  I merely came to let you know that I am here, and that I intend to abide by the laws of Orgoryen while I am here on my assignment.”



“Very well,” said the man, who had still not introduced himself.  “I will inform my agents not to interfere with you.”



“Thank you, sir,” said Javert.  This was the best outcome he could have hoped for.  After this short interview, the receptionist showed him back out, and into the streets, which were already growing dimmer as the sun dipped below the tall buildings of the city.  



He realized that it would look peculiar if he were to patrol around Mishnory carrying a suitcase, so he went to find a room.  He quickly located a simple, impersonal hotel near the center of the city, where rooms were let by the week, rented one, and left his suitcase there.  He immediately went back outside to get a better feel for the city and to get started on his task.  Here there was none of the familiarity with the territory that he took for granted when working in Montreuil.  Here every step he took was as unfamiliar as the accents he heard in the streets.  



Javert wandered the city, wondering about his next move.  He was growing hungry, but he was used to putting off such needs while he was working.  He knew that he would have to find sources of information.  He didn’t love the idea, but he knew what he had to do.  With a police station of that size, there would be a public house or two around here where the agents gathered after work.  He must join in and fish for information.  It made sense - it was what he would be likely to start out with if he were genuinely here looking for Valjean.  But that did not make the prospect any more appealing.



He was not sure when the shifts would be ending for the local police.  Javert continued to walk the streets for a little while longer, ostensibly looking for Jean Valjean.  After a few hours of walking, he found his way back to the police station.  He was thankful for his good sense of direction, honed by many years of irregular patrols.  The city had already started to seem less strange.  



Javert spotted three people, two men and a woman, wearing the uniform of Orgorta police leaving the building together.  In a moment of private insecurity, he cursed Chabouillet for entrusting him with this mission.  In the next moment, he approached them.



“Excuse me,” Javert said.  They turned, and stopped, suspicion on their faces.  “I’m a colleague visiting from Karhide.  I was wondering if you would tell me where I can get food and drink tonight.”



“Karhidish?” the shorter man said with a tone bordering on contempt.



“Did you speak with Commissaire 
Shusgis about this?”  asked the woman, not waiting for his answer.



“Yes,” said Javert, hoping that was true.  It most likely was, he decided.



“You don’t sound Karhidish,” said the taller man, more conversationally.  



“I’m from the far southern parts of Karhide.  My accent is likely different from those you have heard.”



They nodded, their initial hostility decreasing greatly.  Javert was unaware of the general sentiments of the citizens of Orgoreyn - perhaps they were more hostile towards those Karhidish citizens who lived nearest to their border.  



“In any case, we were just heading out to dinner.  You may come along if you like, and tell us what you are doing here in Mishnory.”



“I would be happy to,” said Javert with a smile he hoped was normal.  He knew that his typical smile was far from charming.  



They introduced themselves as Obsle, Yegey, and Turnig (the shorter man, the woman, and the taller man respectively).  Javert followed them to the public house, currently crowded with a mass of people for dinner.  They were able to find a small table, however.  The food was simple, the service efficient despite the rush.  Javert gathered from their comfort together and conversation that the three agents often spent time after work together, as they were unmarried, and had no families to return to.  They were perhaps more reserved around him than they might otherwise have been among only themselves.



After a rather uneventful dinner, 
the wine began to flow.  Javert was not a heavy drinker, and he could tell that this was stronger stuff than the Karhidish wine which he had on occasion.  He carefully paced himself, and remained mostly silent while his companions grew comfortable enough to talk of such things as their common acquaintances and to complain about their work.  



After an hour of this, the woman, Yegey, got up. 



“I’ve got to get going.  Unlike you boys, I have a date tonight,” she said with a playful wink.



“Oh, get out of here with you,” replied the loquacious Turnig, rather drunk by now but not at all hostile.  



She mockingly blew them a kiss as she walked away.  Javert was surprised to find that he was rather envious - there was no one in the police, or anywhere, with whom he had this kind of light, easy friendship.  Would it perhaps be nice, he wondered, to forget about work for the night and just enjoy the company?  He had a long and dangerous enough road ahead of him…



Turnig leaned in towards Javert.  “Date, my ass,” he enunciated clearly to overcome the effects of the alcohol.  “Everyone knows she’s in the Sarf.”



Javert felt a shiver run down his spine.  “Oh?”



“Yeah, you’ve heard of the Sarf, haven’t you?  Of course, what am I saying, you’re a foreigner, I shouldn’t go telling you too much.”



“I’ve heard of the Sarf, yes.  One doesn’t know how much he should believe…”



“Oh, as for that, if you’ve heard it, it’s probably true,” said Turnig with a twinkle in his eye.  But Javert was not able to get more specifics out of him, and he thought it better not to press for details yet.



Shortly after, Javert was able to make his excuses to leave, saying that he had the long task ahead of him of finding lodgings.  (Javert supposed he must get into the habit of casual lies in order to succeed at this mission - it was not something that came naturally to him.)  



“You aren’t half a bad guy for someone from Karhide,” observed Obsle, whom Javert supposed was also slightly drunk by now.



“Yeah, you’ll have to come out with us some other evening,” said Turnig.  “There’s a lot you haven’t seen of Mishnory, and I want to hear about how you get your man.”



Javert was delighted by the invitation.  This would make everything easier, especially if Yegey came along.  “I would be glad to.”  He gave a small bow as he said goodnight.



He returned to the room he had rented, and lit the electric light.  The night was already getting cold, despite the season, so Javert was pleased to see the fireplace was well-stocked with a stack of wood.  In northern Karhide, people liked to take pride in how little notice they took of the cold.  This annoyed Javert more than he cared to admit, as he was sensitive to the cold.  He had to admit, only to himself, that he hated the weather in Montreuil and was quite cold much of the time.  Now, he expertly started a fire in the fireplace, and soon it was blazing away.  



***



Over the next few days, Javert accomplished very little.  He was obliged to be discreet in his movements, and he was not familiar with the art of political espionage anyway.  He liked to have a familiar job to do, and to stick with it.  The odd combination of boredom, danger, and frustration began to settle in.  He sent a letter to Rivette, but it contained nothing of interest.  He barely made use of the code phrases which had been provided to him.  



By his fourth day in Mishnory, Javert was starting to feel nervous.  He had made very little headway, other than gaining a small familiarity with the exterior of all the important government buildings during the time he had been supposedly searching for Valjean.  The only bright spot was that he had made plans to take dinner again with the three friendly Orgoreyn agents, and he could only hope that he would be able to find out something that he could use from the Sarf agent among them.  In the meantime, he could only watch and listen.  He waited outside the main Council building, making a show of idling away time with a book.  



“Javert.”  



He dropped the book.



Approaching him from across the small lawn - a rarity in Mishnory, but one which gave Javert a wider field of vision - was a powerfully built man.  Javert could not believe it - he could now see it was no other than Jean Valjean.



“...Do I know you, sir?” asked Javert, kicking himself for his lack of composure.  He picked up the book, holding it rightside-up by the merest chance.



“Perhaps not,” said Valjean warily, having arrived in front of Javert’s bench.  “You look much like an acquaintance of mine.”



Javert managed a smirk.  “I pity your acquaintance, then.”



“Sorry to bother you, then.  Will you let me buy you a tea to make it up to you?”  Javert supposed that the look that Valjean was giving him was meant to be significant.



“No need.”



“Come,” said Valjean, in a tone that allowed for no argument, one which Javert had occasionally heard from him as the mayor.  “I insist.”



Javert sighed inwardly.  He got up, and followed Valjean without another word.  Valjean led him to a stall that sold tea, paid for two cups, and gestured Javert over to a secluded bench nearby.  



“Tell me what I should call you,” said Javert, warily taking a seat.  He sat as far from Valjean as he could without making it appear as if that were what he was doing.



“I am going by the name Monsieur LeBlanc,” answered Valjean.  



“LeBlanc?”  Javert asked incredulously.  



Valjean seemed a bit sheepish.  “No one else has questioned it.”



“Javert,” Valjean said, after Javert failed to reply.  “Do you want to tell me what this is about?”



“You would question me as if I were the one caught doing something wrong?” Javert asked incredulously.  



“No, I merely meant -”



“And by ‘this’ you mean -”



“Why are you in Mishnory, of all places?” asked Valjean.



“Why are 

you

 in Mishnory?” Javert finally raised his voice, but fought to get his temper back under control, and said quietly, “Perhaps I am here to arrest you.”



“Hmm.  And am I to believe that I am really of such importance that you would travel all the way here to do so?  And how would you even know I was here?”  As he spoke, Valjean leaned in in a way that struck Javert as conspiratorial, and he wished that Valjean wouldn’t.



“King Harge does not like to be made a fool of.  You know that as well as I do.  Taking the mayorship under false pretenses was a slap in his face.”



“You are here under the king’s orders?”



“Something like that,” said Javert, who still found it quite difficult to lie.  The truth of it was, he had very little idea of where the orders from Chabouillet had originated.  



“Tell me what is going on,” insisted Valjean, perhaps unconsciously slipping into the quietly authoritative tone of voice that Javert found so hard to disobey.  How the man had learned to speak so - 



“Don’t use that tone with me, 24,601,” Javert said.  Valjean tensed throughout his entire body as though he had been slapped.  “You are a wanted criminal; I haven’t the slightest idea why you would dare seek out my company.”



“You are either going to arrest me or not.  If you are here for me, you have already found me.  But I rather think that I’m not why you are here.”



“All right,” said Javert in a low growl.  This whole meeting was an unexpected development - count on Valjean to do the last thing anyone expected of him.  Javert could not arrest him; he could not be seen with him.  There was only one thing to do.  “I’m here on the pretext of pursuing you.  But I have been given a political assignment by my superiors which is my actual priority.  So I would appreciate it if you stayed away from me, so that I will not have my cover destroyed.  If you do not, I will be forced to actually arrest you.”



“Isn’t that what you want?”



“Is that what I -?!  Valjean, if I had my way I would have long ago had you arrested in Montreuil.”



“You knew.”



“I suspected.  There’s a difference.”



“You were always a fair man,” said Valjean, consideringly.  “Allow me to give you some advice?”



“Advice from a convict.”  Javert put down the unfinished cup of tea, and tapped his fingers impatiently.



“Advice from an old acquaintance.  Javert, you must be careful.  Sentiment is growing against Karhide.  You are in great danger just by being here.  The Red Faction is strong, war could be declared any day, and I have no doubt that you would be taken as a political prisoner.  I don’t know what your assignment is, and I don’t want to know, but I can only pray that you are working towards peace, as am I.  I wish there was still something that I could do to help protect the people of Montreuil, but that’s well behind me now,” he added wistfully.  



“You are ‘working for peace?’ I hardly even know what that means, coming from you.”



“In a way, I would like to think that I am.  I’m working as a consultant for a resinworks company.  We are working on a method for synthesizing the fossilized resin, so that the disputed region of Karhidish land will no longer be of strategic importance.  Once that is eliminated, the differences between our two countries can be worked out.  That’s how I ran into you.  I’m going to the Council building today to meet with one of the councilor’s committees about a regulatory matter.”



Javert wasn’t sure what to say to that - somehow over the years Valjean had become a persuasive talker.  He didn’t really believe that his motives were as altruistic as he said, but he had to admit that he still saw the kindly mayor in the expatriate fugitive.  The sight was vaguely disconcerting.  



“And Javert?  Look out for the Sarf.  They have eyes everywhere and there’s not one of them who doesn’t have a suspicious temperament.  This isn’t like fooling some escaped convicts.  I fear they would see right through an honest man like you.”



“You don’t need to lecture me about suspicious temperaments.  You actually don’t need to lecture me about anything, and I would prefer that you didn’t.”  Javert got up to leave.  “Goodbye, LeBlanc.”



Javert picked up the cups and brought them back to the vendor, and then without another backward glance at ‘LeBlanc’, was on his way.  


Quick worldbuilding note - "Orgoreyn" is the name of the country, "Orgorta" is the adjective form.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


That evening, despite Valjean’s words, Javert was still planning on meeting with the three Orgoreyn agents.  They met at a public house just down the street from the one that they had been in previously, and what struck Javert the most was how very similar the two establishments were.  In Karhide, such eating places tried to distinguish themselves through colorful decor and elaborate settings, but the ones here were apparently content to resemble one another closely.  

Javert was happy to find his companions in talkative moods.  He bought them a round of drinks, and would have continued buying had he not feared looking suspiciously eager.  No matter - the others kept the drinks flowing.  Javert idly thought that it was lucky that his size increased his tolerance for alcohol, even if he was not in the habit of drinking it.  But as the evening went on, perhaps it affected him more than he realized.  He had to consciously remind himself to stay quiet - he was here to gather information, not to give it away.  Nevertheless, there was one point in the evening when Javert found himself saying more than he really meant to.  

“Tell us about this thief that you have been sent to retrieve, Javert,” said Obsle. “Yegey and I were talking about it today, and it must have been one hell of a heist if they sent you after him.”

Javert frowned.  Of course, they would want to talk about Valjean.  It was inevitable.  “You could say that.  He managed to hoodwink an entire town, and the -” he realized that his next words about the king of Karhide might sound vaguely treasonous, so he skipped ahead.  “And they made him mayor.  He was governing the city, all apparently legal and in charge, the police force and everything.”

“Does this kind of thing happen often in Karhide?” asked Yegey with a bit of contempt in her voice.  

“No, never that I’m aware of.  That’s why we are taking it so seriously.  Valjean must be made an example of.  His punishment must serve as a deterrent to others, but above all, it is what is due to him.  And I believe in him getting what is due to him.”  Javert realized that he was getting carried away and shut himself up.

“But what was his original crime?” asked Obsle.

“Theft, I told you.  He is a recidivist.”

“Theft of what?”

“Does it matter?  Theft is theft.”

“Well, I’m asking,” pushed Obsle.

“He first stole a loaf of bread, after breaking into the bakery.”

“Are you SERIOUS?!  Karhide sent you here to retrieve a bread thief?”  yelled Yegey with delight.

“Let me finish.  After serving his time, he immediately stole money from a child.  The child made an official report, but he was never recaptured.  He disappeared, which is in and of itself a crime in Karhide - he was to follow a strict parole.”

“And then when he next reappeared he was your mayor?”  

“More or less.”

“I’ve got to hand it to him, that takes some real balls.  Not everyone could do that,” said Turnig.

“No, Jean Valjean is not ‘everyone.’  The man is incredibly dangerous.  He is powerful and cunning.  I’ve never seen a man as strong as him.  I don’t know how he does it, since he’s a quiet man, but he has this way of bending people to his will.  Obviously he must, or he would never have ascended so far.  I’ve never figured out the trick of it.”

“I still can’t say that I understand.  He doesn’t sound like the most dangerous sort to have running around, but if you think that he must be removed back to Karhide for punishment, then so he must be.”

“He must,” said Javert decisively.  

Shortly after, as she had last time, Yegey excused herself.  This time she said that she was not feeling well and needed to get some sleep.  

“I had better go, too,” said Javert, standing up as she left.  “I have a lead on my thief and I need to be on the scene well before dawn tomorrow.”

“Sounds exciting,” said Obsle with a hint of sarcasm.  “Good luck with your bread thief!”

Javert bristled as he left, but said nothing more.  The barbs of his fellows mattered not at all. He was back on familiar ground as he followed Yegey out into the night.

***

Javert walked casually at first, with the air of a man who might be going to his own apartment.  He saw where Yegey was heading, turned and walked down an adjacent street, and then doubled back as quietly as he could to tail her.  He tied a bright yellow scarf around his neck.  Javert was in his element now.  Moving silently from shadow to shadow, he tailed Yegey.  

Although she gave no sign that she was aware of him, he would occasionally switch to a different colored scarf, a trick which Chabouillet had taught him.  They made their way across the city.  Javert typically had an excellent sense of direction, honed by many years on patrol, but he would have to admit that he would have trouble finding his way back from here.  They moved into a part of the city that was more industrial in appearance.  There were few lights at the windows here - people had already left for their residences in other neighborhoods.  This had a marked disadvantage for Javert: he would not be able to count on the evening’s foot traffic as cover.  He walked as quietly as he could and stayed in the shadows.  Again his years of experience served him well.

Yegey moved on to a bustling lower class neighborhood, filled with cheap eateries and secondhand stores.  Javert had to dodge passersby, but he had little trouble hiding from her view.  When she ducked into an unprepossessing shop, he almost missed it.  But he doubled back, then went into the cafe across the street and seated himself at the window.  

He could not quite make out what she was doing.  There was no one in the shop except her and a man at the counter.   He could see that she was talking with the shopkeeper rather than browsing - she clearly had some specific business to conduct.  They continued speaking for a few long minutes, and then Yegey exited the shop empty handed.  

Javert was torn - should he continue to follow her, or see what he could find out from the shopkeeper?  After a moment’s hesitation, he decided that the shopkeeper would still be there later, but he would not have another chance to see where Yegey went next.

He went back on her trail, continuing to move as discreetly as possible.  As far as Javert could tell, she was going back in much the same direction from which they had come.  He let her go on ahead a little bit.  Her movements were straightforward, and he guessed that the consequences of being spotted following her would be far greater than those of losing her at this point.  Night was falling, and he trailed far behind her, moving as much with his hunter’s instinct as with his vision.  And Javert had always had good vision at night.  

At last, they came to a stop.  They were at a tall, unadorned building - an apartment building, he saw on closer study.  Yegey let herself in.  Likely nothing, then.  It could be some sort of meeting place, but most likely she had simply gone back to her own home for the night.  Javert waited outside for a few minutes, to see if anything unusual would occur, but with low expectations.  Javert checked his watch.  7:45.  Most of the smaller businesses in Mishnory seemed to close at around nine.  If he hurried, he could still make it back to the shop where Yegey had conducted her business.  He strode as quickly as he could back, to find the shop still open and the same man still there.  He breathed a sigh of relief.

He nodded a greeting to the shopkeeper as he looked around the store.  It appears to be a type of sporting goods store.  Javert himself did not go for recreational activities, and he did not know what was popular in Mishnory, but there were ample balls and nets that seemed to answer to the wish to spend the brief summer outdoors.  There was a wall of skis of all kinds, and other equipment Javert did not recognize.  

“A woman came in here about an hour ago: medium height, rather heavy build, dark hair, a gray shirt.  I believe she made a purchase, but I didn’t see her leave with anything.”

“She bought some skis - I am packaging them up for delivery to her home.”

“At this time of year?  There’s not a flake of snow on the ground.”

The shopkeeper’s air became decidedly less friendly.  “And what is it to you?  I’ll have you know that we sell skis year round.”  The man gestured at the wall of skis.

“I am curious, is all.”

“A stalker, more like.  Get out of here.”

Javert was used to being unwelcome, and it did not phase him.  “Mind if I take a look in back?”  

“I don’t know who you think you are, but yes, I do.”

Javert shrugged slightly, and then leaned in more closely.

“I’m with the Sarf.  For your own sake, I would advise you not to make any trouble for me.”  The lie did not come easily to him, but he hoped that the name would prove to be his entrance ticket, considering how much fear the Orgoreyn citizens seemed to have for the Sarf.  

The shopkeeper looked at him critically, but gestured for Javert to come back behind the counter.  

He was shown into a darkened back room, while the shopkeeper fumbled for the light.  It looked like an ordinary enough storeroom, containing the same types of goods that were stocked in the front.  

“All right.  Now I will ask you again, and this time I want you to remember that it is on the pain of treason, and keeping in mind that I will be searching this place from ceiling to floor if I have to,  what did that woman buy?”

The man looked far less confident than he had.  Javert knew that he was out of his depth here - he had not the slightest idea if there was an official identification that the Sarf used when identifying themselves or carrying out searches.  And that was the least of what he did not know. He was not clear about what he was actually threatening - what powers did the Sarf have over ordinary civilians that kept them in such fear?  None of this was familiar territory.  

But if there was one thing that Javert knew, it was when someone was concealing something, or feeling guilty.  His instincts on this rarely failed him, or so he told himself.  And right now, his gut was telling him that the shop keeper had absolutely not sold Yegey a set of skis to get ready for winter.

“I sometimes carry more specialized items that I keep in the back.  It wouldn’t be prudent to keep them out on the main salesfloor.”

“Yes?  And she bought one of these items?”

“She did.  Several,”  he waved Javert over to a locked cabinet, drew the key, and unlocked it.

Inside were several Karhidish foray guns.  These weapons were deadly, and off limits to civilians in Karhide.  Karhide’s reserve army was armed with these.  Javert had never fired one, nor had he had the misfortune of being on the other end of one.  How these had ended up here in Mishnory, he didn’t know - Mishnory favored a rapid-fire air dart weapon.  

“Just as I had thought,” said Javert, who had thought nothing of the sort.  “Do you have a permit to be selling these?  And don’t lie to me, I will check the truth of your answer the moment I leave.”

“I do not,” the man said with a tinge of fear.  “I just got this one shipment - I don’t normally carry them -”

“No matter.  You do me a favor, at no cost to yourself, and I will look the other way.”  Javert spoke against all his instincts, reminding himself that his top goal here was to gather information, and not to try to enforce Orgoreyn law.  It mattered very little to him if there was disorder in Mishnory, after all.  “I need to know the address where she arranged for these to be delivered.”

The shopkeeper gave it to him, and he repeated it back, committing it to memory.

“You are lucky this time - I will not interfere with your sale.  In fact, I want you to make sure that it goes off without a hitch.  But in the future, you really should consider staying within the law.”  The shopkeeper grimaced, and agreed, and Javert departed.  

***

The next day at dawn, rather than looking for his “bread thief,” Javert headed straight to the warehouse address he had been given by the shopkeeper. If caught, he intended to say that he was a business owner scoping out potential locations to store his wares during the off season when trade was difficult.  However, he was not stopped, and after watching the area for a time, managed to pick the lock on the side door using the discreet locksmith’s kit he had brought with him.  

He let himself into the dark, enormous room.  He looked around for any sign that an area within the building might have been used as a meeting space.  Eventually, he found what he was looking for - a sprinkling of ash from a cigarette on the floor of a side supply room.  Upon closer examination, the dust here was more disturbed than elsewhere.  Javert carefully set up the transmitter end of a one-way radio on a cluttered shelf, making sure to disturb the dust as little as possible.  He turned it on, and went to wait back outside.  The range on the small handheld unit was not good, but it would transmit to where Javert was waiting outside the building, he hoped.  Although it had belonged to the Montreuil police station, Javert had rarely had occasion to use the small set in the routine matters that generally occupied him there.  

It was to be an extremely long wait, but Javert had always been a patient man.  He waited and waited behind a stack of old boxes in a nearby alley.  The warehouse seemed to be completely abandoned except for this apparent clandestine use by the Sarf. While he waited, he brooded.  He was normally able to turn his mind off effectively during long stakeouts, but now there was the issue of Valjean occupying him.  There was the man’s stated goal in Mishnory.  Javert did not truly believe that a convict, of all people, would be able to bring peace to the region.  He wasn’t sure if he should even believe the man when he said that was his goal.  Valjean played at the philanthropist, but he had done more than well enough for himself in Montreuil.  If he did what he said he was setting out to do, that would establish a new fortune for him in Orgoreyn.  Yes, surely that was the answer.  He was hoping that he would be able to set himself up as a rich man in Orgoreyn.  It was true what Turnig said:  Valjean was bold.  Javert was indignant.  Someone like Valjean should not be allowed to prosper.

He wondered if it would be possible to both complete his true mission and arrest the man, and bring him back to Karhide.  The idea was a pleasant one.  In a way, it might even be useful to his mission, giving him the perfect excuse for leaving the country once he was done.

That was another thing that Javert turned over in his head while he was waiting:  his mission.  He was used to assignments that had a straightforward conclusion:  arrest the wrongdoer.  It’s true, he was often called into court as a witness, but overall, he could say when his work was done.  He could feel a sense of satisfaction and accomplishment that was perhaps the main pleasure in his ascetic life.  However, with this new political mission, he was thrust into uncertainty.  He did not have the expertise to feel adept at the work, and he was not even sure what a successful mission should look like.  When would be the stopping point - how would he know when he had carried out his goal?

Two days Javert spent like this, waiting and brooding, returning to his rooms for a few hours of sleep in between.  He saw a delivery man on the morning of the second day, presumably working for the “sporting goods” store - Javert would be shocked if the store wasn’t primarily a front for smuggling - bring in the guns.  They were boxed in a way that concealed their contents.  A man Javert did not recognize was there to receive the shipment, but no one else met him there.  Javert heard him humming to himself over the radio, a disconcerting sound as it cut in and out as he apparently moved around the space.  Javert did not want to risk blowing his cover for the small chance that this man might be able to tell him something valuable.  The man did not stay long.

Finally, he saw what he was waiting for.  Four people, each arriving separately, entering through the same side door that he had forced earlier.  

He turned on the radio receiver he had in his coat, and positioned it in the collar of his coat so that he could hear it clearly as possible but the sound would be muffled in the surrounding directions.  

The voices on the receiver were faint - the people inside were clearly not too close to the transmitter.  But Javert could make out some of what they were saying.

“Change of plans…at the ceremony today.”

“ … he’s … it’s too risky.”

“No.  Orders from Yemeybey.  Now is … won’t be another time … must …”

Here Javert’s breath caught.  He recognized the name - Yemeybey was a prominent member of the Red Faction, a man well known enough to regularly make the Orgorta newspapers Javert read.

“When the premier … he raises the flag…”

“No, I’ll telling you -”

“And I’m telling  you … orders here.”

“You have the foray guns?” asked a new voice apparently closer to the transmitter.

“...s … devilish things they …”

“What else would you expect from Karhide?”

“...the parapet … and Ruyin from below.”

“ … aim won’t fail.” 

Javert continued listening in disbelief until when they left shortly after, bringing the foray guns with them, but he learned nothing else of importance.  He had thought of the Sarf as a rather secretive extension of the police - perhaps underhanded in their methods, but basically servants of the state.  For these members to be actively conspiring against the very highest level of the government…It strained Javert’s view of the world.  But luckily for him he saw a way forward, and he was able to act rather than reflect.  

If he was correct, he knew that he must find this ceremony and see if he could interfere on behalf of the premier.  He could not notify the police without implicating himself heavily, even if he was taken seriously.  He would have to see how this played out on his own.  

The scarf thing was a trick of Vidocq's that I borrowed/gave to Chabouillet. It seems odd but apparently it worked? IDK, I'm not a spy :D


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Javert knew that there was not a moment to lose.  Where could he find the information he needed?  He must either risk revealing himself or risk not finding it.  He stopped at a café, looked around, and grabbed a copy of the newspaper that had been left out for customers to peruse.  There it was - on the bottom of the front page - the ceremony for swearing in some new military officers.  It was to take place at a plaza near the city center, near the main government buildings.



“Hey, are you ready to order?  You’ve got to buy something,” stated the waiter.



Javert tossed a coin to the man and was on his way.  He sprinted through the midday pedestrian traffic, no longer caring if he stood out.  The plaza where he was headed was one that he was familiar with.  He had been there on his earlier surveillance trips.  



When he arrived, it was still quite early.  According to the paper, the ceremony would not start for another hour.  All the better.  He still was not sure exactly where the shooter would be - the conspirators had mentioned a parapet.  He looked around.  The most likely spot was atop the building directly opposite the small stage that was being set up.  The ornamental facade would make an ideal hiding place for a shooter, and the crenellations likely added to allow easy snow removal would ensure that their aim was not impeded when they decided to show themselves.  A quick scan of the other buildings nearby confirmed that none of them had comparable decorations.  



In his previous visits to the plaza, Javert had not stopped to think about how one would get on top of any of these buildings.  He looked around, eventually finding a small spiral staircase that led to the roof.  Once there, he checked the view - yes, it would be a clear shot from here to the stage.  



Looking out over the plaza, Javert realized the position he was in.  He would be seen immediately by anyone making their way across the roof.  There was no way that would end well, regardless of whether he was found by agents of the treacherous Sarf or by any security forces that may have been put in place by the government.  Javert was vaguely aware that he was overstepping his mission, and possibly wrecking it, but at the same time, he was keenly aware that a high crime was about to take place.  Every instinct in him required that he not stand aside and do nothing.  



He made up his mind to conceal himself behind one of the several chimneys.  If an agent approached from the same staircase he had come up on, they would not be able to see him, and he would have a relatively easy view of the parapet.  Unfortunately, he would not be able to see what was going on below, but he would have to live with this.  There was no better option.  The footing was difficult due to the slope of the roof, another concession to Mishnory’s winter weather, but luckily the weather had been dry and he made his way without incident.  After a moment’s thought, he removed his boots to make sure that if he approached the edge, he could do so silently.  



He crouched down on the roof to wait, posing much like a sprinter at the starting line of a race.  He must be able to get up quickly, but he wanted to be as inconspicuous as possible.  



Gradually the noise from below started to increase, as people gathered.  Javert heard the sounds of the band beginning to get into tune.  He thought of - of Valjean, of all things, and wondered if he would be in the crowd below.  He supposed it was natural enough - he was one of the few people Javert knew in Mishnory.  



But then a shape appeared - the head of someone climbing the spiral staircase.  Javert held his breath.  A short man he didn’t recognize came into view, quickly scanned the roof, and made his way to the parapet.  He was carrying a foray gun. 



Javert and his quarry waited for the ceremony to begin.  When it did, he could hear bits and pieces of the words drifting up.  



Evidently satisfied that he was alone, the other man was focused entirely on the scene below him.  Javert had to time this next part carefully: he was unarmed and would likely be going up against a trained assassin.  He watched as the man carefully loaded the gun. 



Javert had seen enough - it was time to act if he wanted to have a chance of preventing this crime.  He inched out past the chimney.  He had to hope that what wind there was, added to the sound of the crowd, would conceal his footsteps.  Having left all cover behind, he sped up.  There was no turning around now.  



The assassin raised his gun, taking careful aim.  His precision was his downfall.  Javert arrived in time and tackled the shorter man.  Finger pulling convulsively around the trigger, he fired into the air as he went down.  There were some screams from below.  As the assassin hit the ground, he lost his grip on the gun, and it clattered to a halt several feet downslope from there.  Javert pinned the struggling man to the roof, grateful that the assassin’s training had clearly not been in hand to hand combat.  Neither man said a word, but the assassin fought desperately against Javert’s grip.



There was the clatter of footsteps, and yelling, as the police rushed up the stairs and onto the roof.  They quickly pulled Javert up and off the assassin, while two others took over his role in pinning the man down.  Another grabbed the gun, exclaiming over the weapon.



“Now, who the hell are you?”  One of the officers turned to Javert.  



“I’m a fellow officer of the law.”



“Riiight, and you lost your uniform, and I’m sure you will tell me that you lost your badge too?”



Javert spoke with the dignity born of a clear conscience.  “I never had them.  I never said I was an 

Orgoreyn 

officer of the law.”



“Karhidish?!”  



The heads of the men holding down the assassin popped up.  



“I should have known Karhide was behind this!” one of them said.



“You’re mistaken.  I am in Orgoreyn strictly to locate a wanted Karhidish criminal.  I intervened to spare the premier’s life.  I have never before seen this man,” Javert said, nodding towards the other prisoner.  



The assassin remained silent.  



“Why would you want to save our premier’s life?” asked the leader of the officers.



“I know nothing of the man and have no particular interest in him.  But surely you would intervene if you knew someone was about to be murdered?  I should have thought that my motives would be self-evident.”



“Well, it does seem as though he wasn’t the shooter,” said one of the officers.



“Hmm.  Take them both away,” said the one clearly in charge.  Javert and the assassin were both handcuffed and roughly pulled to their feet, and led away by a pair of officers each.



***



The arresting officers told him nothing on the scene.  Javert heard the good news later:  The premier had been unharmed, and luckily the shot which had been fired did not hit anyone in the crowd.  He did not particularly care for the Orgorta premier one way or another, but Javert was susceptible to being impressed by the authority of the office itself, and furthermore it meant that his job had been done well.  



But two months later, Javert was still waiting in prison.  He had been unable to send any word back to Chabouillet via Rivette.  All of the charges relating to attempted assassination had been dropped.  It had quickly become clear to the investigators that Javert was not the assassin, and had been averting the attempt on the premier’s life.



However, his cover story of simply being in the right place at the right time did not hold up long.  He was quickly found to be a political agent of Karhide, a fact which he admitted when the question was put to him directly.  The punishment for captured spies was death.  Javert accepted his fate with resignation.  The premier, however, was not ungrateful.  In view of what was, admittedly, a great service to the Orgorta government, as well as his own person, the premier commuted Javert’s sentence to a life in prison.  



Javert quickly fell into brooding in prison.  He had not been in the habit of taking days off, and rarely got sick, and so the enforced idleness of the jail cell was far more than he was used to or comfortable with.  Being locked up with his own thoughts was very hard on him.  Javert regretted all that he had failed to do on his mission.  He second guessed himself - would it have been better to turn a blind eye to the assassination of the premier?  It would have allowed him to complete his mission successfully and report back to Chabouillet.  And the assassination was really an internal matter for Orgoreyn to deal with.  



But it would surely have affected the peace between the two countries if the Red Faction had succeeded in assassinating the premier.  There was no doubt in Javert’s mind that they intended to set it up to look like a Karhidish plot - the imported Karhidish weapon made sure of it.  He was certain that this was a gesture intended to provoke war between the two countries.  As it was, he was unsure how the event had been reported in the newspapers, or what was going on in the outside world.  He did get some rumors and stories of the outside that made their way through the prison, though, and he had not heard of anything like an outbreak of war.  Perhaps he really had made a contribution towards the fragile peace.  Valjean would be pleased, he thought bitterly.



He also of course regretted Valjean’s freedom.  After all, Valjean had everything he wanted now - he had started over with great promise for success in a new country, where he was not wanted by the law, and he, Javert - his enemy - was now locked up, and completely out of the picture.  It galled Javert.  Valjean was rightfully the one who belonged in prison.  Javert was not a stranger to adversity, but it bothered him that he was imprisoned for following orders when a man like Valjean was free.  



The days crept along, all the same, until the day that they didn’t.  A guard approached him and told him the news:  he was to be transferred to one of Orgoreyn’s notorious penal camps, euphemistically known as “voluntary farms.”  They were leaving immediately, and the guard ushered Javert out coldly but with no hostility.  Javert supposed it did not matter.  There was nothing left for him in a Mishnory prison cell and he might as well be on his way.



He had supposed wrong.  When Javert thought back to his time on the prison transport truck, and he tried not to, it all became a blur.  Javert had never before rode in the back of a truck like so much cargo.  Fifteen people, men and women, were being transported to a remote penal colony far from Mishnory.  He lost all sense of direction, of night or day, while in the dark truck.  There was never enough food or water - people cooperated but everyone was on the verge of collapse at best.  Javert had known hunger in his childhood, and he sometimes skipped meals when on the job, but never recently had he been so deeply hungry.  There were the ill passengers, and nothing that could be done for them.  A particularly ill man died, and the guards would not respond to their pleas to take the body from the truck when they stopped to thrust in the small water ration. The only fresh air which made it into the truck was bitterly cold.  



Javert tried to sleep when he could, to make the hours pass more quickly.  It was mostly unsuccessful.  The coughing of the sick, the lurching of the truck, the general horror of the situation, it all conspired to make sleep elusive.  



Javert tried to remember his time in Toulon - surely the Karhidish prison transport trucks were nothing like this?  He was sure they must not be.  But he could not remember the specifics from when the trucks arrived and the weary prisoners were entered into the ranks of the penal colony.  He had considered the punishment dealt out to the prisoners just, but now he was wondering if Karhidish justice could feel so harsh.



Doubt and second-guessing gnawed at Javert like hunger as they made their way further northwest.


Nothing to see here, folks, just Javert's canon being-bad-at-spying.

IMPORTANT: spoilery CW for this chapter only can be found in the endnotes


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



They were well into late autumn by the time they arrived at the Pulefan Commensality Third Voluntary Farm.  Javert and the rest of the prisoners were so relieved to be out of the truck, in free, fresh air that they scarcely noticed the cold at first.  At first.  The cold was soon to be a constant companion.  Some were more tolerant of it than others, but the relatively thin prison issued garments were no match for the rapid onset of the winter.  Javert, never tolerant of the cold, suffered particularly.  



Beds were simple wooden planks with thin sleeping bags, crowded into a large bunkroom.  Multiple levels of bunks lined the room.  There were two separate rooms, for male and female prisoners, but otherwise no divisions.  



During the milder parts of the year, the Farm generated lumber and other raw materials.  This late in fall, the guards rushed the prisoners to work as fast as possible as the dwindling daylight limited their work hours.  Soon they would be working indoors only - sewing and leatherwork and the like.  Like the rest of the prisoners, Javert looked forward to when it was his turn to work the hardest jobs - the ones that would keep the body warm over the long hours.  Splitting wood, sawing until he was ready to collapse with exhaustion - these ended up seeming like a type of mercy.  Prisoners would return to their thin sleeping bags, exhausted and wet with sweat, and there the chill would find them.  



Ill prisoners seldom got any better, and those who were slightly sick were likely to join the ranks of the bedridden before long.  There was some limited compassion on the Farm, as the guards spared the ill from the labor that was otherwise mandatory, and the other prisoners brought them food and drink in their bare bunks.  But there was no proper medical care. 



But worst of all were the interrogations.  Javert had apparently been singled out for them, having been a political spy, along with a few other prisoners.  Every day or so, they would be taken one at a time to a small room with a chair and at least one questioner.  



Javert was asked questions about his mission, his superiors, the organization he worked for, and any intelligence he might be able to share about Karhide.  The questions themselves rarely changed.  Javert knew little enough about what they were asking.  No doubt that was a contingency plan of Chabouillet’s:  to ensure that Javert knew as little as possible about anything in case he was captured.  



The first time Javert was brought into the room, he simply refused to answer anything.  His questioner repeated himself, and when Javert continued on in silence, he was brought back to the lumber yard where he had been assigned to work for the day.  The whole ordeal had been merely ten minutes or so - a rough estimate, of course, since Javert did not have a watch on him.  



The next day, when Javert was brought into the interrogation room he was handcuffed to the chair.  When Javert refused to speak to the interrogator, he repeated the question.  



“Why did Karhide send you?” asked the wiry interrogator.  



“I don’t know,” Javert answered.  



The interrogator slapped him in the face.  “I’m warning you.”  The blow had been more shocking than anything else.  



“Perhaps for a vacation,” answered Javert angrily.  



The interrogator huffed.  The man was relatively small - when he came back to his senses, Javert was somewhat impressed that he could hit so hard.



Javert was not seriously injured during the rest of the session, but he was no longer able to remain impassive in the face of the assault.  



Finally, the interrogator took a step back.  



“All right.  Think things over.  Next time, maybe you will be more cooperative.  I can tell you that next time, I won’t be flirting with you like this.”  The interrogator struck one more hard, open handed blow across Javert’s face, and gestured to the guards to take him away.  



Javert was taken back out to the lumber yard, back to his place with the saw.  The cold dry air was a relief on the budding bruises, but nearly agonizing on the small cuts he had gotten on his face. He supposed it all came out as a wash.



***



Another day, and Javert was brought in for another interrogation.  He was beaten badly, but he did not talk.  He did not think that anything was broken, but the swelling was making it difficult to tell.  



Javert had suffered a number of injuries and blows in fights before.  It was commonplace in his line of work.  However, the adrenaline of the work numbed the pain.  Here there was the anticipation, the blow, and then the sting.  It was far worse, and he could not tell himself that the pain was for any purpose.  He tried to tell himself that as his mission had failed, it was now his duty to withstand whatever he must in order to not betray Karhide.  Surely that is what Chabouillet would order of him.  



When Javert thought he could not bear anymore, he was released and brought back outside, staggering.  He could barely make it to nightfall.  The other prisoners said nothing, and avoided eye contact, although he thought he saw the occasional sympathetic glance from the newer prisoners.



Despite the somewhat large number of prisoners, the Farm was a lonely place.  The suffering caused each person to bottle themselves up within themselves.  Javert was not one to make friendly connections anyway, but he supposed the environment discouraged it here.  Your friend of one day might be stricken with illness the next day, and left untreated to recover or die, alone.  He might die under interrogation - Javert had no idea how far they intended to take things.  Did people often die from the torture here?  So far, it seemed like the idea was to not inflict so much damage so that the person could not work.  



It was a mystery to Javert what all the other prisoners on the Farm were there for.  He had the impression that the prison camp housed primarily political prisoners, rather than those who had been accused of breaking civil laws.  Another man might simply have asked them, but that would not have been in Javert’s nature, even if it was the sort of thing that felt natural to talk about on the Farm.  It was as though there was an unspoken agreement among the prisoners that they would not talk about the things that had happened outside the walls of the Farm.



It must be said that it was not in Javert’s nature to seek to escape.  He did not feel guilty for what he had done, in the way that he imagined he would feel guilty if he had committed a crime, but nonetheless being sent to a detention center such as this was known to be a risk of acting as a political spy.  He did not have to like it, but he accepted it for what it was.  There were occasionally people who tried to escape to freedom, although the wilderness surrounding the Farm made it like a fortress for at least eight months out of the year.  The cold weather was beginning to settle in for the winter, and an escaped prisoner would not make it far in their prison-issued clothing.  And that was if they got past the guards, who would not hesitate to fire their dart guns on escaping prisoners.



That night, Javert slept on his back on the hard plank bed to protect the growing bruises.  The room was crowded with the breathing and sounds of many other men at night.  Despite his bone-deep exhaustion, Javert found that sleep would not come.  He longed for it as he never had before, but still it evaded him.



***



A week later, the grim routine that Javert was falling into suddenly changed.  When he was strapped into the chair in the interrogation room, the interrogator, whose name Javert had learned was Hupitry, unceremoniously injected him in the upper arm with an unknown substance.  Javert barely had enough time to tense up, and it was hardly painful at first.  Then came a slight burning sensation from the injection site.



“What was that?” he asked, sounding more confident than he felt.



“It’s a bit of an experiment.  We are testing out a new truth serum.  And you, my friend, are one of the lucky first few to try it out.  Don’t worry, most of the mice survived.”



Javert hoped that he was joking.  “What kind of truth did you get out of a mouse?”



Hupitry slapped him in the face.  “Don’t think that I won’t hit you just because you’ve been chosen to get the medication.  Now, let’s try this again:  why did Karhide send you?”



“I don’t know.”



The man spat, said “I’ll be back when you are feeling more cooperative,” and left the small room.



By the time he came back, the room was spinning and the colors had gone weird.  Javert felt nauseous and disoriented, and vaguely startled to see the other man again.



“Why did Karhide send you?”



“Don’t know.”



“Who is your superior?”



“Don’t know.”



“Who. Is. Your. Superior?”



“Chabbouuley.”



***



The next time that Javert was taken in for interrogation, Hupitry ceased all ceremony and immediately injected him with the medication, and left until he was nearly unconscious.  Javert remembered very little of the session, and hoped that he did not say too much. He supposed someone must have helped him back to the bunkroom after the session, because the next thing that he remembered clearly, he was lying down on top of his sleeping bag.



Over the next week, it was unclear to Javert if they were injecting him with higher doses of the drug, or if he was developing a sensitivity to its effects.  But the next time he was taken in for interrogation, he must have lost some of the memory leading up to the injection.  He remembered being led up to the room, and then absolutely nothing until he was lying on his sleeping bag again.  It was dark, and everyone else was in their bunks.  Had he really been out so long?  Everything was blurry, confused.  Javert tried to move, but was nearly unable.  His limbs felt like unbearably heavy weights, and there was a strong pounding in his head.  He let himself grow still.  What else would he do?  It was clearly night, and trying to move around the well-guarded facility would be pointless.  He fell asleep heavily.  



***



The daily newspaper subscription was one of the only luxuries in Valjean’s life.  He had gotten the subscription shortly after arriving in Mishnory, and he generally read it nearly from cover to cover in the morning.  He was equally concerned with local news, hoping to understand the new community in which he found himself, and international news, hoping against hope that war would not break out between Orgoreyn and Karhide.  



One morning he read “Premier Leynik Target of Assassination Attempt,” and his heart raced.  More violence, he thought with distress, the last thing that any of them needed.  He had no strong opinion on the premier, but he suspected that any replacement would be riskier for Karhide.  “Plot Foiled by Karhidish Spy.”  The smaller headline caught his eye, and he nearly dropped the mug of tea he was holding to the table.  As was, the hot liquid splashed onto his hand while he read the details.  Yes, the article identified the spy in question as a man named Javert.  It merely said that he was arrested, not what fate would befall him, but he knew how likely it was that Javert would be executed if he had been caught spying.  The thought made him sick.  Valjean hated the idea of executions in general, but the idea of them killing that upright man for acting on his sense of duty seemed especially terrible.  He knew Javert well enough to realize how stubborn he was and to realize that he would not speak in his own defense.  



He had warned Javert to be careful, Valjean thought with annoyance, but even while doing so he had suspected that the man wouldn’t listen.  Valjean’s authority over Javert was long gone, and he knew that Javert held him in something like contempt.  There was nothing he could do or say that would have influence over Javert now.



After skimming the articles, and then reading them through again thoroughly, Valjean sat back to think.  There was something missing here, and he had to think through the gaps in the articles he had read.  There were questions left unanswered - what was the shooter’s motive?  The paper just said that it was under investigation.  All evidence pointed towards a conspiracy - although only one shot had been fired, there was another man arrested with a foray gun nearby.  That ruled out a single shooter with some kind of madness.  The articles gave no indication of who the shooters had been working for.  But the fact that they chose a Karhidish weapon, rather than a more readily accessible Orgorta one, pointed strongly to a motive.  They were likely trying to drum up more antipathy between the two countries.  



How had Javert come to know about the assassination attempt?  It seemed wildly unlikely that he would just have happened to be on the roof at the right time to stop the attempt, although Valjean supposed that it was possible if Javert had been trying to collect information on the premier or some such.  Javert had not let him into his confidence, but if Valjean had understood correctly, the focus of Javert’s information gathering was not the criminal element in Mishnory.  Unless Javert had simply been unable to stay away from his old habits of stalking criminals, his focus must have been on the government of Orgoreyn and its agents.  For him to have discovered this plot, it must have originated within some branch of the government.  



From all the briefings he had received as the mayor of Montreuil, and what he had gathered about the state of politics during his time in Mishnory, Valjean suspected that the Red Faction would have the most reason to want the premier dead.  He had been appointed to his post over their candidate, and there were certainly hard feelings there.  In addition, they fundamentally disagreed with him on all points of international policy.  



Valjean had become desperate to know more.  He went out and bought and read every newspaper that was available.  Some seemed to be of the position that the attack had originated in Karhide, while others believed it to be the work of a terrorist organization.  None of the papers printed anything suggesting that a government group might have been responsible.  



Over the next few days, Valjean shook his head as he read the papers.  The Red Faction called for retaliation against Karhide, and more and more citizens appeared to agree with them. The premier had been made to look weak, appearing to have been nearly killed by Karhidish agents after being soft on Karhide.  Protesters both for and against war with Karhide were filling the streets.  



Valjean suspected that Javert would know the truth of what happened.  But there were very few details printed about what had happened to him, and certainly no interviews.  It was with a great deal of relief that Valjean read that Javert’s sentence had been commuted from death to imprisonment.  However, he suspected that there would be no way for Javert to send word back to whomever had sent him to Orgoreyn from prison.  This bothered Valjean.  Anger at Karhide was increasing, and without any evidence that the botched assassination attempt had been an inside job, it was too easy for it to grow unchecked.



The suspicions of an old convict with a set of falsified papers and a manufacturing contract would hold no weight with anyone, Orgorta or especially Karhidish.  But if only Javert could be brought in to speak, perhaps ambassadors would be able to work something out.  



After a few more days of stewing, Valjean became convinced that he must reach out to Javert.  Who knows, perhaps he would be allowed to carry a message for him, or would find a way to carry one surreptitiously.  He would not mind being an intermediary.  Even if it cost him his freedom, it would be worth it to ease the perilous situation that the two countries were currently in.  



When he reached the prison where the paper had said Javert was being held, however, he was merely told that it was impossible for him to talk with Javert.  He asked if he would be able to come back on a different day, and the stone-faced guard replied that the answer would be the same no matter which day he came back.  



He hated to do it, but a bribe got Valjean the information he wanted.  Javert had been sent to the Pulefan Commensality Third Voluntary Farm to the north.  He was taken aback.  From the rumors he had heard about the Orgorta “Farms”, he knew that it was very unlikely that Javert would make it out alive.  These labor camps housed political prisoners and ordinary convicts alike, and were known for their cruel regimes. 



Now Valjean was faced with a dilemma.  He could mind his own business, and continue to work on a method of manufacturing the resin artificially.  This might be too little, too late now that there was this new political complication.  He could write to someone in Karhide and tell them what he suspected.  But whom?  And what could he possibly say that might convince them?  If only he knew who had sent Javert… And of course, if he got involved in any way, he would be putting himself at great risk of being recaptured.  He knew now that it was not true that extradition had ceased between the two countries. 



The third option was the riskiest of all.  He could find Javert at the Farm, rescue him, and bring him back to Karhide.  Once there, surely Javert’s knowledge and testimony would help ease the tension between the two countries.  But if this were accomplished, surely Valjean would be arrested.  And that was the best case scenario - if he were successful.  He had no idea how hard it would be to find Javert at the Farm and free him, but he had heard that such prison camps were notoriously difficult to escape from.  And then where would they escape to?  For a high profile political prisoner like Javert, surely the Sarf would not risk the humiliation of having lost him.  There was no way to travel safely in Orgoreyn, and they would be far from the border with Karhide. Unless… there was an option, but it was hardly worth thinking about.  Unfortunately, it was likely to be their only option.



While Valjean was thinking of all this, he also knew that Javert would not lift a finger to free him if the tables had been turned.  Should that matter?  It really wasn’t the same thing at all, Valjean told himself.  Javert had started his career as a prison guard, and no doubt his instincts remained.  It would go against all of his training to deliberately allow a prisoner to go free, for any reason.  Despite this, Valjean told himself, in a way, Javert had already chosen to let him go free when they ran into one another and spoke earlier in Mishnory.  Javert may have felt he had very little real choice, but he did make the decision to look the other way from Valjean in favor of completing his mission.  Valjean suspected that this choice must have cost him, though.



In the end, Valjean felt as though he himself had very little choice.  Despite his background, Valjean was a man of conscience.  He had run out on Montreuil, and left the town to whatever fate befell it.  He now had the chance to try to protect Montreuil one last time, and he would not now walk away from Javert.  



***



Valjean once again saddled his horse, which he was boarding in a nearby stable, and headed out of town.  As soon as he reached the city limits, he kicked his horse into a gallop.  The horse would not be able to maintain this pace, but Valjean felt as though there was no time to lose.  



The large trucks that carried the prisoners to the Farms were far slower than a horse moving at full speed.  The journey which had taken Javert a week and a half took Valjean only one.  He showed less consideration for the horse than he normally would have, and the travel was exhausting for both horse and rider.  At night, he stopped at small inns along the road which catered to travelers.  At each town, he was asked for his papers.  He had arranged papers with the help of a group of Karhidish expatriates shortly after arriving in Mishnory, and although he had told some lies to get them, he was now able to work and move freely in Orgoryen.  He would have to enjoy quasi-legality while he could - there was no way this could go on now that he had made up his mind.  Succeed or fail now, he was doomed to death or imprisonment.  The thought tailed him like his shadow and would not let him be.  Nevertheless, he rode on with determination through the bitter cold that marked the opening of winter.


CW: This chapter contains torture scenes involving a major character. They are not very graphic, but are partially onscreen. This is a major nope for me as a reader, but I somehow managed to write them, so…they probably aren’t that bad? IDK, I’m a kitten.


Valjean had heard the stories, same as everyone else in Orgoreyn, but he had little idea of what would be waiting for him at Pulefan Farm.  The walls were high and protected with electric wire, and all gates and doors were well guarded.  He circled the prison camp several times to ensure that it was so, and to look for any weaknesses.  There were no obvious weaknesses, and most people would have been forced to give up there.  But Valjean was not “most people.”  His time in prison had given him talents in scouting out any possible means of escape that most people would not dream of, and he had the physical strength necessary to exploit any potential route.  And the camp had been built to keep people in, not out.



One side of the sawmill building abutted the main wall of the prison.  It wasn’t much, but Valjean thought that he could get in that way. Valjean had brought a length of rope with him, and he made a type of lasso out of it.  After a few attempts, during which he got slightly shocked by the touch of the somewhat damp rope against the electric wire, he got the lasso around the mill’s chimney.  He braced himself, and began to climb.  The way up was tricky.  The smooth stone blocks of which the wall was made had very little gap between them, and finding a foothold was made more difficult by the snow which was falling even as Valjean made his way up.  He slipped several times, once sliding several feet down.  But he always maintained his hold on the rope, even when the rope tore into his hands.  He stepped carefully over the three strands of electric wire, and eventually onto the roof of the sawmill.  There he rested for a moment, regaining his strength.  The biting wet cold of the night was draining his energy, and he still had no idea how to find Javert.  



Valjean dropped down into the courtyard in front of the sawmill.  He saw lights in one of the buildings ahead, and went for them.  He spotted the two men guarding the doors of the long, low building.  He suspected it must be the one where the prisoners were being kept - it was the only one that appeared to have any life in it at this time of night.  The small, narrow windows were designed to keep the cold out, not to allow a prowler to look in, and he had trouble finding what he was looking for.  



It would have been too great a stroke of luck to stumble across Javert on the first try, he supposed, but looking in, he could see what appeared to be a small storeroom.  The window was surprisingly not locked.  He was in luck.  He found what appeared to be extra guard’s uniforms, and, giving thanks for his good luck, quickly changed into the one that appeared closest to his size.  It was tight around the shoulders, but it would do.  From there, Valjean unlocked the door from the inside and let himself out into a long, dark hallway.  He walked until he saw a locked room, and he forced the door.  Inside were electrical controls.  Impulsively, Valjean cut power to the electrical fences.  If the guards noticed, there would be a diversion, and if they didn’t, it would make it easier to escape.



Slipping out, Valjean continued on his way down the hallway, trying to walk with the confidence of a guard and not the anxiety of a prisoner.  Just being here was bringing back intense emotion, but he had no time for any of that.  He would have to shove down the emotion as best he could.  Soon he saw a door with a guard posted in front of it. Thinking that it might be the right spot (certainly wherever the prisoners were sleeping must be guarded), Valjean overrode his instincts and made his way over.



“Who are you?” the guard said with suspicion.  “I’ve never seen you before.”



“My name is Jean - I’m new here,” Valjean had not invented a fake name, but there was surely no one here who would know him.



“You came out here for the winter?” the guard said incredulously.



“I needed the work - I don’t mind the cold.”



“I see.  So what are you doing now?”



“I was sent for the prisoner called Javert, but I don’t know where to find him.”



“You’re kidding.  Hupitry wants him at this time of night?” 



Valjean made a slight gesture, as if to say, “who am I to say?”



“All right,” sighed the guard.  “Come get him.  Although you’ll have to drag him, I suspect.”



The guard turned to lead Valjean into the room behind him, as a chill ran down Valjean’s spine.



“What do you mean, ‘drag him’?”



They had entered a large, dark bunkroom.  Bodies covered the hard bunks, heavy sleeping breaths and snores filling the air.  Valjean followed the guard, suppressing a shudder as much as possible.  He tried to remember why he was here.  He would not get lost in the past.



“He wasn’t in great shape, last time I saw him,” said the guard, picking his way through the dark.  “I hope you can manage on your own.  I can’t leave my post.”



“I’ve got him.  Just point him out,” Valjean said, remembering that he wasn’t supposed to know which of the sleeping prisoners was Javert.  And in fact, although Valjean thought he would know him immediately, it was too dark for him to spot Javert anyway.



“Here you go,” said the guard, gesturing to a man on a lower bunk.  He opened the slots on his lantern slightly, and Valjean instantly recognized Javert.  Even knowing he would be here, even having come specifically to get him, Valjean felt a jolt of something much like fear.  Whether it was fear for the authority which Javert represented and contentedly served, or fear for Javert’s welfare - well, he had no time for that.  



Hesitantly, he touched Javert’s shoulder.  



“Javert?  Wake up.  Someone needs to see you.”



The man bunking above Javert had awoken and was staring at them with some interest, but said nothing.



The guard gave a low snort.  “He’s out of it,” he said, shaking Javert’s shoulder for good measure.  “They were testing the serum out on him, and he hasn’t been taking to it.”



Valjean had no idea what he meant, but it clearly wasn’t good.  Between that and the rough treatment, and Valjean’s nerves, it took all Valjean’s self-control and commitment to nonviolence not to strike the guard.  “I see. I’ll take him from here.”  Valjean propped Javert up into something resembling a sitting position, and when he still did not wake, Valjean leaned forward and pulled Javert onto his shoulders, his torso draped across their width.  He held Javert’s legs with one hand and his right arm with the other, and lifted himself back up to stand.  Javert was lighter than he had expected based on the man’s size.  



“Damn, you are strong,” said the guard with a whistle.  



Valjean didn’t reply.  He was playing this entire thing by ear, and had no idea how he was going to get out of the prison camp carrying Javert.  He started walking.  His first thought was to pretend that Javert was in fact dead, and to simply walk him out of the prison through the front gate.  However, he would surely be stopped by the guards, and he had no idea what the proper procedure for dealing with a dead prisoner would be.  He looked around desperately for another idea as he walked.  Javert was not dressed adequately for this weather, but with any luck, they would not be out in it for that much longer.






He would have to go out the same way as he came in.  Valjean wasn’t sure if he could do it again: not with the substantial added weight of Javert and with the wet snow falling more heavily.  It would be very risky.  But he didn’t see another choice.  All other exits would be guarded, and he did not have the knowledge of this prison’s routines that would allow him to come up with a better plan.  



There were no lights on at the sawmill, and Valjean was not able to see exactly where it was through the dark and the falling snow.  Luckily, there was enough dim ambient light (the moon would be waxing behind the clouds), and the light reflected off the snow, so that he was able to follow his own tracks back to the sawmill.  Even they were becoming obscured by the falling snow, a fact Valjean knew he would be grateful for when the guards realized Javert was missing. 



Valjean reached the sawmill, and reluctantly set Javert down on the ground against the wall.  He found the rope he had cached there, and thought for a moment.  



“Javert?” He gently shook the unconscious man.  This would go so much easier if Javert were able to hold on while Valjean carried him over the wall, he thought.  But Javert would not wake.  Valjean suddenly had a fear that Javert had in truth died, and quickly removed his gloves and placed his fingers to Javert’s carotid.  There he felt warmth, and a pulse, and Valjean could breathe again.  He replaced his gloves, and tried to wake Javert one more time.  



When unsuccessful, Valjean set about getting them both up onto the roof.  This time, he would not be able to lasso the chimney - the angle was all wrong.  He stared for a moment.  Without Javert, he would have attempted to free climb up the wall.  And if the weather had been better, he just might have made it.  But as things stood he would have to find another way.  He found a heavy metal wedge in the sawmill, used for splitting stubborn logs.  He took the rope and tied a slip knot with a loop in the end, enclosing the heavy wedge in the loop.  He would have one try.  Using the wedge like an anchor, he tossed the knotted end around the chimney.  It looped around and fell back to him, hooking around the chimney with both ends on the ground.  Valjean picked up the ends, and removed the wedge, letting it fall to the ground.  He threaded the free end of the rope through the slip knot’s loop, pulling until a strong loop had tightened over the chimney.  



Valjean gave the rope a quick test to see if it would hold.  He wasn’t certain, but it would have to do.  He gathered Javert back onto his shoulders, holding him in place with one arm and holding the rope with the other.  He was conscious of the fact that the guards could come looking for them at any time, and he hurried to climb up on the roof. He had to loop his arms around Javert’s right arm and leg, so that Valjean had limited use of both of his own hands without dropping Javert.  



He finally reached the roof after an agonizing climb, pulling himself and Javert to safety.  He then carefully crossed the sloping roof, feeling for each step along the way.  In the end, he made it safely to the wall.  Feeling the urge to hurry, he had brought the rope along with him.  He could only hope that the electric wire had not been turned back on.  Valjean readjusted Javert on his back, and started to make his way down the wall.  He navigated carefully through the wires, although from the lack of a low hum, they did not seem to be turned back on yet.



About half way down, he lost his footing under his left boot.  He might have been able to recover if he had not been clutching Javert, but as it was, he gripped the rope as hard as he could.  He nearly cried out at the pain in his hands as he slid down far more quickly than he had intended.  They collapsed into a heap at the bottom of the wall, the pile of snow which had drifted against the base of it breaking their fall.  There was no serious harm yet, but Valjean knew that Javert could not tolerate this cold that much longer dressed as he was.  And of course, their flight might be noticed at any time.  



Valjean picked Javert back up, and shuffled through the snow until he reached the spot where he had cached the skis earlier, out of sight from the prison camp in a grove of scraggly trees.  He hurriedly put them on, pulled Javert up again, and made his way again, much quicker now.  Valjean’s childhood winters in rural northeastern Karhide had made him a skilled skier, and even with the added burden of Javert, he was soon able to reach the forest.



There was less snow in the forest, but enough had filtered through that Valjean was able to keep skiing.  He found the small clearing where he had left a sledge and a tent.  Hurriedly, he placed Javert inside the tent and got the stove running.  Javert had worn no hat, gloves, or jacket, and he was soaked from the wet snow.  His skin was far too pale, and cold to the touch.  Valjean stripped off Javert’s outer layers of clothing, and dried him with a blanket.  Dark, intense-looking bruises stood out even in the dim light the stove was currently giving off.  Javert stirred slightly while Valjean was working, but did not wake.  Valjean hung Javert’s prison clothing up to dry, noting its poor condition, and put Javert in his sleeping bag next to the stove.



Valjean had a moment to rest while he waited for some sign of recovery from Javert.  Anything to indicate that the other man would be okay.  He got up and pressed the back of his hand to Javert’s throat.  The color had come back into Javert’s skin, and he felt warm to the touch.  Javert’s pulse was beating more strongly under Valjean’s knuckles, unless he was imagining it.  Valjean’s face warmed, and the restlessness in him doubled. 



Then Javert stirred.  His eyes did not open fully, but he began to tense up and withdraw from Valjean’s touch. 



“No,” he said, very faintly.



“You’re awake!” said Valjean with relief.



Javert grabbed Valjean’s wrist and pushed it away hard.  



“No, nonono,” continued Javert, who seemed not to realize that he had not let go of Valjean’s wrist.



“Easy,” said Valjean, starting to feel nervous.  He pulled his arm away from Javert, and asked, “It’s me, Javert; do you know who I am?”



But Javert did not respond, and he still had not released his desperate grip on Valjean’s wrist.  Valjean tried to pry it off with his left hand, and then everything happened at once.  Javert shoved forward in a desperate lunge.  Had he had his full strength in him, he probably would have knocked Valjean over.  As was, Javert swung at random with his right fist, hitting Valjean hard in the upper arm.  Valjean caught Javert’s incoming left hand in his own, forcing it down.  Now that he was on guard, Valjean’s superior strength put him at a clear advantage.  He caught Javert’s right hand as well, and pinned Javert to the ground, crouching over him on all fours.  Javert struggled ferociously, still showing no sign of recognition.  He was unable to kick, with his legs trapped in the sleeping bag, but he squirmed and fought against Valjean’s grip.  



“Hey, hey, hey, now,”  Valjean repeated to him as if he were a startled horse.  He gently pulled Javert’s hands together, so that he could restrain them both with a single hand.  Valjean then put his free hand to Javert’s forehead, but realized that he was so out of the habit of touching another person that he did not know how to tell if Javert was feverish.  He felt warm, perhaps a shade hot.  Valjean returned his hand to restraining Javert, who had quite large hands and had nearly pulled one of them loose.  



By and by, Javert stopped struggling and went still.  Valjean was flushed and sweating by now.  



“Better?” asked Valjean, with little real hope for a reply at this point. 



The man pinned beneath him said nothing this time; made no indication that he had heard.  Javert’s muscles began to relax, and Valjean cautiously let first one hand go, then the other.  He moved away from Javert, nearly as far as the small tent would allow.  



Javert had gotten himself tangled up and part way out of his sleeping bag in his agitation.  Valjean eyed him, decided not to try and touch him again, and turned up the setting on the Chabe stove.



He watched the sleeping man for a long moment, weighing his options.  Valjean did not feel very comfortable leaving Javert like this, but there was no telling when Javert would be likely to regain full consciousness.  There was still plenty to do, and Valjean had to keep moving.  When he stopped, he knew that exhaustion would overwhelm him and he would be of no use to either of them.  He stepped out of the tent, zipped it back up, and put his skis back on.



***



When Javert finally came to, he was deeply disoriented.  It was the effect of the drug, he thought - there was always a disorienting effect as it wore off, and it was getting worse each time.  He waited for things to make more sense - usually a guard would bark directions at him and he would be jolted back to reality.  However, no guard spoke up, and eventually his head cleared on its own.  Javert did not find that things made much more sense, though. 



He was resting in an unfamiliar sleeping bag - much warmer than his prison-issued one, and in a pleasing shade of forest green rather than a greasy gray.  The hard surface below was the ground, not the wooden prison bunk.  He slowly realized that his clothes were as unfamiliar as the sleeping bag.  He was somehow in a tent.  Had he been placed outside by the prison guards for some unknown reason?  But that wouldn’t explain the clothes and sleeping bag.  The tent was empty except for him, some additional gear, and a hot stove in the middle of the tent.  His prison-issued clothes were in the corner, stretched out to dry.  



The tent itself was small:  perhaps eight feet by eight feet, and not tall enough even at the highest to stand in.  He moved around on his knees.  



The Chabe stove illuminated the tent in addition to providing heat - the condensed battery pack stove, burning no fuel, was state of the art, a brilliant Orgoreyn invention.  Javert wondered where it had come from.  He poked through the remaining gear piled in a corner of the tent, finding some extra clothes, and a nesting mess kit. 



He looked outside the tent - cold air hit his face.  Snow was still falling - it was shaping up to be the first real, heavy snow of the season.  He didn’t see anyone out there - neither guards nor other prisoners.  After a long moment, Javert zipped up the tent and decided to wait for the guards to return.  There could be no escape for him, regardless of what this new twist meant.  



Leisure had never come very easily to Javert before, but he had learned in the prison to take advantage of any opportunity for warmth.  So he got back into the sleeping bag and waited for whatever was next.  



***



Javert heard the door to the tent unzip.  He did not get up.



“Javert?” said a voice, surprisingly gently.  It was not a command.  That voice: it was familiar, but Javert did not think that it was one of the guards.  He rolled onto his side and looked up.  



He was utterly unprepared for the sight of Jean Valjean, massive frame wrapped in a heavy winter coat, face surrounded by fur.  He stared for a moment, and then realized what must have happened.  He must have been given another dose of the serum, and this must be a hallucination.  He had not experienced a hallucination before, but he had felt his grip on his mind slowly deteriorating, and likely this was just the next step.  Javert lay back down to wait out the effects of the medication.



“Javert, you are awake; thank God,” said the apparition. 



Javert didn’t reply.  He tried to say as little as possible under interrogation.



“You are free now.  I brought you from the Farm, and we are a good two miles away.”



Javert said nothing.



“I wanted to stay with you, make sure everything was all right, but I needed to get more supplies, and to lay a false trail for the guards.”  Valjean paused.  “Javert, please say something.”



“Where did you come from?  You follow me around from place to place like a ghost.  In fact, I rather suspect that’s what you are.”



“I came from Mishnory, of course.  I heard the news of your capture and had to come and get you.”



“What do you intend to do now?” asked Javert.



Valjean sighed.  “I was hoping that question could wait until you are a little more recovered.”



Javert quirked an eyebrow.



“We are going to have to find our way back to Karhide.  But we can talk about that later.  You need to rest; eat.”



“I don’t know what’s real anymore,” said Javert uncertainly, ignoring Valjean’s comments.  “Let me touch you.”



Valjean held out his hand silently, palm up towards Javert.  Javert rested his hand on it, and squeezed.  He let out a huff.  “I suppose I must believe my senses.  It appears to be you.”  



He let go of Valjean’s hand.  



Valjean looked confused.  “The guard told me that they were using some experimental serum on you.  Does it…affect your mind?”



“Yes,” admitted Javert, after a pause.



Valjean thought for a moment.  “Ask me something only I would know.”



The implied intimacy of the question struck Javert unpleasantly. 






“We worked together for years, Javert,” said Valjean when Javert didn’t answer.  “And you know that was me, all those years ago…”



“Tell me your true name, ‘LeBlanc.’  And tell me what I called you, ‘all those years ago’.”



“My name is Jean Valjean.  You used to call me Prisoner 24,601…  Do you remember the day you didn’t, though?  You looked right at me and said my name.  I never knew that you knew it until that day…”  Valjean gave him a sad, far-off smile.



Javert did remember, and nodded slowly.  Either this was truly Jean Valjean, or it was a trick of Javert’s own mind and senses.  It was not a trick of Hupitry.  



“Will you eat something?” asked Valjean, coming back to the present moment.



“Yes,” said Javert, who had just realized he was hungry.  Valjean pulled up one of the several packages he had been hauling, and unpacked a loaf of the crusty bread favored in rural Orgoreyn, and pieces of shredded meat.  He made sandwiches for them, and Javert accepted his without comment.  They ate almost companionably, studying one another.  Valjean quietly made Javert another sandwich and handed it over.  Javert hated to accept it from Valjean, but he had developed the habit of eating whenever food presented itself.  



“We can stay here while you recover,” Valjean said.



“How do I know that you won’t cut my throat while I sleep?” asked Javert half-heartedly.  He knew that Valjean would have already had more than enough chance to harm him if he wished.  But something in him could not stop from making the comment.



Valjean looked wounded.  “I’ve been many things, but never a murderer.  I hope never to be.  Go to sleep.”



Not seeing a better option, Javert obeyed.  He didn’t think that he would be getting much sleep with a wanted criminal in the same tent, but he sunk back into the warmth of the sleeping bag anyway.  But despite his earlier unconscious state, Javert was still exhausted, and he was not really afraid of Valjean.  He fell easily into a dreamless sleep.



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert awoke again after dark, to find Valjean asleep in another sleeping bag which hadn’t been there before.

Javert studied him.  Not much was visible in the bag, just the outline of a sturdy frame and the brown head of hair.  Up close like this, he noticed the white hairs growing in at Valjean’s temples.

Javert sat up, still wrapped in his sleeping bag, and thought.  He was prepared to believe that this really was Valjean, and that they were somehow away from the Farm, which meant that what Valjean had said about bringing him here must also be true.  But how had it been accomplished?  And to what end?  Javert was beset with doubts.  What could have brought this lawless man to a prison colony of his own volition?  He considered Valjean his natural enemy; part of an entirely different order of mankind from himself.  And while Javert thought little of himself, he still considered himself above thieves, imposters, and criminals such as Valjean.  

Men such as Valjean belonged in prison, and it was the duty of men such as Javert to put them there.  Surely Valjean understood that in his place, Javert would be hauling Valjean right back to the Farm, not helping him escape?  

Even then, Javert did not take it for granted that Valjean was really intending to help him.  He had not completely ruled out a trick of some kind, although he could scarcely imagine what it might be.  

Javert was going in circles, he knew it.  He was still brooding over an hour later when Valjean woke up.  Valjean emerged partially from his sleeping bag, and stretched out his arms and shoulders as if they were painful.  He turned to Javert.

“You’re awake,” Valjean said.

“As you see.  I still don’t understand why I am here.  Tell me, why did you come after me?” asked Javert bluntly.

“You are needed,” Valjean stated simply.  

“For?”

“I need you to complete your mission.  Karhide needs you.  They are on the brink of war with Orgoreyn now.  Since the assassination attempt, the one you stopped, tensions have been simmering in Orgoreyn.  High and low alike, everyone has an opinion on Karhide and many of them are urging for retaliation against Karhide for the attack they supposedly led on the government of Orgoreyn.  People need to know the truth of what happened, who really tried to kill the Orgorta premier.  You will tell them.”

“Why don’t you tell them yourself?”

“You of all people know why they would not listen to me.”  

“And you think that they will listen to me?” Javert had never been much of a public speaker, nor did he think of himself as a charismatic figure.

“I think we must try.”

“So your plan is …” asked Javert, trailing off.

“To get you back to Karhide, to safety.  There you will speak to your superiors.  You will do as you must.”

“You are wanted for life in Karhide.”

“And that’s a risk that I must take.  I swore that I would defend the interests of the people of Montreuil, and right now there is nothing more pressing than making sure that they are not killed in the crossfire of a pointless war.  I know you think little of me, but I do not take that oath lightly.”

Javert nodded slowly.  Valjean would have him believe that he was an idealist and a fool.  Javert would have never suspected either of these things from him.  There must be something else, something that Valjean was not telling him, which was the key to this whole thing.

“How are you planning on us getting back to Karhide?  We surely aren’t anywhere near there, and we cannot travel through Orgoreyn without papers.  The Sarf will find us immediately.  They must already be looking for us.”  Truth be told, Javert had very little idea of exactly where they were.  He suspected it was far north of Mishnory, but he had not known where the Farm was located before setting off, and had been disoriented by the long ride in the dark truck.  They were not near the coast, where they might possibly be able to book passage on a trade ship heading back for Karhide.  

“Yes, I’m afraid I agree with you.  It does seem insurmountable; traveling through Orgoreyn.  That is why we are not going to do it.”

“Not going to -”

“We will go around north, over the Gobrin Ice.”

“Surely that’s suicide.”  Geography was not Javert’s strong suit, but he knew that the Gobrin Ice, situated north of Orgoreyn, was completely uninhabitable.  No trade ventured into the wilderness there, no recreational adventurers made the trip.  

“There’s a chance that we can make it,” said Valjean impassively.  

“Not much of a chance, as far as I can see.”

“I don’t see what choice we have, unless you would rather turn around and go back to the Farm.  Any overland travel through Orgoreyn is going to be too risky, especially without valid papers.”

Valjean had him there.  Giving up would mean the abandonment of his duty, for surely his superiors would argue that it was his duty to escape and report back if he could.  And he knew that if he were returned to the Farm, even if he might otherwise survive the hard winter, he would not survive the experimental serum tests much longer.

“How would we manage an expedition like that?” asked Javert.  He would humor Valjean for a moment.  “Surely it’s a risk even if you are well prepared, which we are not.”

“I took the liberty of getting us prepared.  Earlier, while you were, ah, asleep.”  Valjean made a gesture at the extra sleeping bag and a backpack in the corner of the tent.  “The remainder of the supplies are on the sledge.”

Javert had not noticed any sledge earlier, but he supposed Valjean must have had it with him at the time.  “But how…”

“There is a village not too far down the road from the Farm.  I left money for everything I took.”

 “You  stole  these supplies?”

“I couldn’t risk going to a store,” said Valjean, as if it were obvious and Javert was the one being unreasonable.  

“So the food you gave me earlier…”

“Yes.”  Valjean had the grace to look uncomfortable.

“You would have me be a criminal like yourself,” said Javert with fury, leaning forward.  Everything in him longed to grab Valjean by the collar and put him in his place.  

“You knew what I was when you accepted that bread,” said Valjean with a trace of bitterness.  

“But to know that you are a thief and to benefit directly from your crimes are two entirely separate things.  I will have none of it.”

“We’ve covered this already.  It’s your duty now to survive, Javert, nothing else.  You will not survive or make it to Karhide without the supplies I took.  For now, you’ve got to let it go.  If we make it to Karhide, and you see fit, you can bring me to justice then.”

Javert fumed.  He tried to think of what Chabouillet would tell him to do.  He knew that Valjean was right - that was the worst part.  Javert knew very little about the moral code which guided political spies, and he was not even sure if it was considered wrong to steal from the other side. He did know that Chabouillet would want a report from him, as soon as he could possibly manage.  

“And as I said, I did pay for everything - I left money on their tables.  Extra for their inconvenience and the cost to repair the doors.”

“You - ‘to repair’ - good God, Valjean.  You know you can’t do that, right?”

Valjean gave a noncommittal shrug of his broad shoulders, as if to indicate that he had in fact done it, which only infuriated Javert more.  

Javert made his way to the door of the tent, and started unzipping it.

“Where are you going?” asked Valjean, suddenly all attention.

“Out!”

Valjean looked as though he wanted to say more, but he did not try to stop Javert as he put on his old boots from the prison and stormed out.

It had stopped snowing for now, and the clouds had parted enough to allow moonlight to illuminate the snowy landscape.  After taking a moment for his eyes to adjust, Javert looked around the clearing.  It was not very large - he would be able to cover it in a few paces.  The small local trees surrounded it, evergreen with thin brown-green needles at this time of year.  He supposed Valjean would know what type of tree they were.  To have heard the townspeople of Montreuil tell it, the man was practically a fountain of useful knowledge about plants.  But although he had been set to work at the Farm cutting lumber, Javert had never taken the time to find out what type of tree he was cutting.  

Javert had excellent night vision, and he soon noticed the sledge that Valjean had mentioned - a decent sized one parked near the tent.  A tarp was tied down over what must have been the rest of the supplies that Valjean had procured.  Two pairs of skis lay next to the sledge.

Javert had begun pacing across the clearing, back and forth, scarcely realizing when he started.  There was nowhere else to go, really; nothing else to do.  The cold and snow acted as a damper, putting out the worst of his rage.  He was annoyed with himself, as well, now - coming out here into the cold served no practical purpose and he was getting wet.  

He looked down at his clothes in mild alarm.  He realized for the first time that he was no longer wearing the prison-issued uniform, and had no knowledge of how he had gotten into these clothes or where they had come from.  They were too large, and not long enough - Valjean’s, he supposed.  When had…had Valjean actually changed his clothes?  He mentally added it to the list of things he was mad at Valjean about.

But he continued to pace, picking up speed, shivering.  Somehow, in spite of everything, this was really happening.  Somehow Valjean had brought him from the Farm to this remote clearing, who knew where.  Now he was almost a free man.  Almost.  For he had no choice but to go along with what Valjean proposed - this death march onto the Gobrin Ice.  Both his sense of duty and the impossible situation that he had found himself in compelled him forward.  But that didn’t mean that he had to like it.  To attempt a journey like that, with such a companion as Valjean!  He didn’t trust the man at all; didn’t understand his motives.  There had to have been more to it than he had said.  His shivering became violent, almost uncontrollable, despite his rapid movement.  

Javert reluctantly returned to the tent.  Inside, Valjean looked up with concern.  Javert silently sat down as close to the small stove as he could manage, and held his ungloved hands up to its warmth.  He expected a scolding from Valjean, but none came.  Valjean held his silence for a moment.  

“I have extra clothes for you,” he finally said, reaching into a bag.

“I will be fine.”

“You need to dry off.”

Javert grumbled, but Valjean had a point and he changed into the proffered dry clothing while Valjean turned away to give him a small amount of privacy.  Javert didn’t know why he bothered, but he supposed he was grateful anyway.  

“You can still say no,” Valjean said quietly, not looking at Javert.

“‘No’ to what?” 

“To the Gobrin Ice.”

“Ah.  I don’t really think that I can.  You summed it up well enough.  The Sarf will be looking for us both, I have no doubt, and they will make all travel through Orgoreyn impossible.  The Gobrin Ice it is, then.  I’m warning you, Valjean, I still intend to arrest you once we are on Karhidish soil.”

“I know.”

“Hmm.  Since that’s settled then, we will start in the morning?”  

“Yes.”

Javert searched for something else to say, some comment that could make things right.  But he found himself at a loss for words, and contented himself with crawling back into his sleeping bag and turning away from Valjean.

***

In the morning, there were still the details of the journey to be figured out.  Together, they poured over the map that Valjean had obtained of the northern regions of Orgoreyn and environs.  While Valjean had never traveled in the area, he had a good sense for geography, and took the lead in pointing out potential routes.  Javert followed along, trying not to fall behind, although he knew little of geography or navigation beyond the immediate areas in which he had lived.  How came Valjean to be so comfortable tracing lines through the complexity of the drawn world?  Their planned route would take them through the Fire Hills, onto the great plateau of the Gobrin Ice, and then down to Guthen Bay, which would be frozen solid by the time they reached it.  In this way, they would skirt the habitable parts of Orgoreyn before dropping down south into Karhide.

They next reviewed their supplies together before heading out.  Javert had to admit that Valjean had done an outstanding job of preparing for the suicide mission that they were about to embark on.  There was warm high quality clothing, the sleeping bags and tent which Javert had of course already taken note of, the stove and mess kit, and additional food was packed on the sledge.  The sledge itself was sturdily made, with a built-in compass and odometer.  The skis and two pairs of snowshoes waited for them alongside it. 

They would be out of bread and fresh food relatively soon, but there was enough tack to last eleven weeks on their journey, according to Valjean’s calculations, if they were thrifty.  Javert had been listening to him spit out figures and calculations all morning.  He was reluctantly impressed by the amount of thought that Valjean had put into this adventure, and by the amount of knowledge he had about human nutritional needs under various conditions.

Javert had used to think of Valjean as a creature who reacted by instinct:  needing bread and stealing it, seeing a path to escape and taking it; consequences be damned.  But of course that was not all that there was to the man.  Else how would he be able to start and manage a successful factory, or become mayor of Montreuil?  Javert had to admit that despite the fact that he and the mayor had not always seen eye to eye, Valjean as Madeleine had done a fine job as mayor.  A keenly analytical mind and a brute instinct for action taken at just the right possible moment:  could both exist in the same man?

After dressing for a day of hard travel, they struck camp, working together awkwardly and unskillfully to take down the tent, fold it up, and affix it to the red sledge.  When all of their supplies were situated on it, they put their skis on and gathered up the traces of the sledge.

“I’ll pull first,” Valjean offered, taking the traces and affixing the harness around his waist.  “Scout ahead.  Make a line between three trees, aim for the last one.  Pick a new third when you reach the first.”

Their sledge had a built-in compass, but it would be easy to get misdirected in the forest when not actively consulting the compass.  The instructions hurt Javert’s sense of pride - he had a good sense of direction in general.  But Javert navigated mostly by instinct, and out here in the woods his instinct failed him.  He forced himself to be grateful for the instructions, even if they were coming from a convict.  

It was rough going.  There were no trails in this part of the woods, and even if there were, they would want to avoid them to avoid encountering any other people.  Trees grew close together, except for the occasional clearing formed when particularly bad ice storms had felled trees, reducing visibility and making it difficult to ski a straight line.  A lot of the snow that had fallen had been trapped on the branches of the trees, leaving the layer of snow on the ground relatively thin.  It was not thick enough to prevent their tripping on fallen branches and the occasional stony outcrops.  

Looking back, Javert noticed that Valjean was struggling with the sledge, which had very limited maneuverability around the trees.

“I will give you a hand.  Come, let’s take off our skis - they aren’t doing us any favors in these blasted woods.”

“All right.”  Valjean stopped trying to wrangle the sledge between two small trees, and removed his skis.  Both men attached their skis to the sledge, and then checked to make sure they would stay put.  

“I’ll take a turn pulling,” said Javert.  

Valjean handed over the traces, and went to walk behind the sledge.  He tied a rope to the back.  When they began walking, he walked behind it, helping steer the unwieldy sledge around obstacles.  

Walking was less frustrating, but it was still hard going.  They said little to one another, stopping to eat a little of the remaining bread around midday.  Clouds formed overhead, and in the afternoon, it began to snow again.  The canopy above and the warm parkas Valjean had obtained kept them dry. 

As the day came to a close, Valjean, who was pulling the sledge again, asked “What do you think?  Should we stop here?”

“Hmm?” replied Javert, who had been brooding and took a moment to process Valjean’s words.  “Yes, it’s as good of a place as any.”

With no further ado, Valjean unhooked the traces from around himself and began to untie the precariously bound sledge.  He found the tent, and began struggling with it as though he intended to set it up alone.  Clearly he could set it up alone - he had before - but Javert’s conscience pricked at him and he walked over and lent a hand.  They quickly had it up, and Javert brushed off Valjean’s hesitant thanks like so much fallen snow.  

Truth be told, Javert was exhausted.  The enforced inactivity of the prison had reduced his endurance, and now he was struggling to keep up with Valjean.  He did not want to mention it - they needed to make good time, and he didn’t want any sympathy from Valjean.  They finished unpacking, and set up the stove.  

Inside the tent, they took off their parkas, setting them up to dry as well as they could.  Valjean collected snow in a pan to melt over the stove, for drinking water and to wash.  At least there would be no shortage of drinkable water for the foreseeable future.  Valjean warily served them from the supply of fresh food, without a word, but Javert had made up his mind not to start a fight over the food again.  They ate, still without speaking, eyeing one another occasionally while trying not to make direct eye contact.

Finally, Javert spoke up.  “The other night, you told me why you went and rescued me, but not how.  I don’t have the slightest memory of it, until I woke up in the tent.  I’ve been turning it over in my head and I don’t know how you could have done it.”

Valjean gave a wry half-smile.  “You know that it is not my first time escaping from a prison.”

“Yes, you were always a crafty one.”

“The security was far less than in Toulon.  I think they rely on the surrounding wilderness to keep people in, here.”

The wilderness, Javert thought, and the interrogations.  He had never supposed that he could be brought so far under another’s will while still surviving, and it had broken something in him.  The knowledge that he had been not himself, that he had talked when he had been unwilling to do so, still distressed him more than anything else he had experienced in the prison camp.  

“I had rode up to Ifeling - the nearest proper city, the last stop for most traders,” Valjean explained when it became clear that Javert did not know where that was.  “I pretended to be a fur trapper.  They are on the move at this time of year; it was believable enough, and I already had the false papers prepared.  I had to sell my horse, and bought supplies: sledge, tent, stove, map, food, clothes for one person, and joined a trapping party heading north.  I traveled with them for a while, and learned a bit about the landscape here.  Eventually, I veered away from the party, and made my way to the Farm.  I scouted out the landscape, and set up camp as you saw it.  

“All that was the simple part.  When I arrived at the farm, I scaled the fence, climbed over the roof of what looked like a sawmill, and then was inside.  The security there was never designed to keep people out.  I stole a uniform, and then the guard just let me take you.  He thought…he thought that you had been called in for additional questioning.”  Valjean looked at Javert with some concern, but continued when Javert said nothing.  

“Then I brought you outside.  I couldn’t see anything that could be done, except to climb back over the sawmill, so that’s what I did.  Then I took you back to the clearing where the tent was.  It was snowing pretty well at the time, and I think that it covered up our tracks.”

“You - carried me all that way?” asked Javert incredulously.  

“You know that I am strong,” said Valjean simply.  

“But -”  somehow he had not suspected Valjean was that strong, still, after all these years.  To think of Valjean carrying him as if he were a small child!  “I had imagined you must have used the sledge, somehow, brought it up and pulled me that way.”

“No, I would never have managed to cut and run past the argousins with that.”  Valjean slipped into thieves’ slang seemingly without realizing he was doing so.  Javert had never heard such slang from him.  “Better to travel light; leg it fast.”

“I defer to your expertise,” said Javert with a hint of hostility.  The thought of being carried by Valjean to safety was curiously, unwelcomely intimate, and he felt an unconscious need to lash out. 

However, Valjean was not phased.  “I thought that I might have lost you during the flight - it was so cold and you were so still…But you survived, and soon enough we were back at the campsite and I got you warmed up.  I traveled back to Turuf, the nearest little town, a few miles south of here, to - obtain - more supplies.  On my way back, I waded through a stream that had yet to fully freeze for nearly a mile to conceal my trail.  The rest, you know.”

“It’s a bit of a hard story to believe, but since we are here, I don’t suppose I have any choice but to believe it,” said Javert. 

Valjean frowned slightly.  “I could wish that you would trust me more.”

“You ask too much of me.  I will come with you, I will go across the ice,  I will report to Chabouillet, but I will not trust you.”

Valjean’s eyes widened as he tensed up.  No matter.  Let him look stricken:  he certainly had no right to be asking anyone to trust him.  Not after Montreuil.  

“I trust you,” said Valjean, simply.

“You shouldn’t!  I fully intend to turn you in when I get the chance,” Javert said, feeling all the more reckless and angry for knowing that he was fully in Valjean’s power.  

Valjean sighed.  “I expected that, yes.  I never said you wouldn’t turn me in, only that I trust you.  You aren’t like the sycophants in Montreuil, seeking power and gain.  But our problem now is the ice.  Nothing matters if we don’t manage to survive that.  Rest, now - I know that I for one am ready for sleep.”  Valjean did not look as though that were the case, but even Javert could sense that he was ready to be done talking, and dropped it.  They coexisted in silence, until they turned in shortly afterwards.  

Javert’s sleep was troubled that night, despite his exhaustion.  He could not get over the idea that Valjean had carried him to safety.  He knew he was neither small nor lightweight.  The man really was fantastically strong…  His own vulnerability disturbed him - how had he not woken while everything that Valjean had described had gone on?  But at least there would be no more of the truth serum which he had reacted so poorly to.  Even if he were to be trapped on the ice with a powerful criminal, at least his mind would belong to himself.

And.  He did not know if or how he could grow to trust Valjean.  He felt as though this were another challenge laid out in front of him.  He could not understand the man; did not know what to make of this seemingly benevolent man officially classified as “very dangerous.”  Javert’s outburst had on some level been a test, one last provocation, and it seemed as though Valjean truly meant him no harm.  It was still possible, he supposed, that Valjean would realize what a mistake he had made in freeing Javert, and would kill him in his sleep.  He was unable to sleep soundly until Valjean’s breathing had long since gone slow and even.





~~  The map which they are following - not drawn to scale.

I drew a map! I'm not much of an artist, lol, but I try sometimes. This is heavily based on the one drawn by Ursula K Le Guin for the Left Hand of Darkness, modified to fit this story.

When Javert woke in the morning, Valjean was already awake and out of his sleeping bag.  Perhaps his stirring had awoken Javert - he was not habitually an early riser.  Judging by the dim light inside the tent, it was still quite early in the morning.  Valjean had set water to boil and was carefully rolling up the sleeping bag.  

As soon as he started climbing out of his own sleeping bag, Javert’s legs began protesting.  They felt as though they were on fire from the previous day’s strenuous exercise.   He stretched out as discreetly as he could in the tent, not wanting to appear weak in front of Valjean.

“Good morning,” Valjean said with a slight smile, handing over an apple and a chunk of bread, and beginning to eat the same himself.  

Javert didn’t speak while eating, but when they were done, asked to see the map again.  He was curious about their location, but even more eager to reassert his independence.  He had been without his freedom for long enough that it felt unbearable to cede any of it to Valjean, of all people.  

Valjean produced the map, and Javert joined him in studying it.  They were northeast of the nearest town, Turuf, and deep in what was labeled the Tarrenpeth Forest.  The Farm had been situated within it, as it supplied the lumber that they worked with in the sawmill.  The edges of that expanse of woodland were not marked clearly on the map, but they were headed towards the Sembensyen Mountain range, and likely the trees would fall off as the elevation increased.  

They struck camp, working together slightly more smoothly than the day before, and went out for their second day of travel.  The weather was fine and travel was uneventful.  They continued to travel in snowshoes rather than the swifter skis, due to the limitations of the landscape.  Unfortunately, that gave Javert time to think.  Javert was beginning to mentally rebel about the circumstances in which he found himself.   Here he was, beginning a long journey with his natural enemy.  What right did Valjean have to decide his fate?  Even if he had likely been doomed to die in the labor camp, it was rightfully no concern of Valjean’s.  Now to owe his life to a criminal…to rely on him every day for survival…

But Javert was not blameless, either.  Valjean’s continued presence reminded him harshly of his own misconduct.  Back in Montreuil, he had informed on the mayor without evidence, and the fact that he later turned out to have been right did not retroactively justify his actions.  Javert ruminated as he went.  He burned off his anger, and came to dwell in shame.  So preoccupied was he that he nearly walked into a tree on more than one occasion.    

But since Javert channeled his distress into movement, Valjean either didn’t notice or didn’t comment.  They made quite good time through the forest that day - twelve miles according to the sledge’s meter.  They might have done even better had not the terrain gradually started to slant uphill towards the end of the day.  There were occasional dips down, but the overall trend upslope was noticeable.  By sunset the trees had become noticeably smaller and fewer between.  Snow had drifted into higher piles here and there where it had come through the canopy.  

They stopped and set up camp as the light began to fade.  Javert took a turn preparing dinner, eyeing the stolen food with exasperation as he did so.  Why was nothing that Valjean did a simple act?  His most recent theft - he did it as a key part of his efforts to save Javert’s life, and surely there was some ingratitude in being so angry about it.  And no ordinary criminal would have left behind restitution for his victims.  But whatever else he was - and Javert was far from having decided on what else Valjean was - Valjean was not ordinary.  They ate dinner silently, each watching the other eat while trying not to appear to be doing so.  

Javert watched Valjean cleaning and putting away the mess kit from dinner, with economical movements.  Shame was now eating away at him, making itself known in the swirl of emotions that had dominated his mind since his rescue.  His internal turmoil had been increasing all day, and he had to make a clean break of it, come what may.  He had to tell Valjean what he had done.  

“Valjean, there’s something I need to tell you,” Javert said.  Valjean looked up expectantly.  Javert steeled himself for any possible reaction, drawing himself up straight.  Best keep it simple.  “Back in Montreuil, I informed on you.  I sent a letter to my patron, Chabouillet, claiming that you were Jean Valjean.” 

“I know,” said Valjean, and it was a full sentence, weighty between them.

“You…” said Javert with disbelief.

“I guessed, anyway.”

“Then why?  … I don’t understand.  Why would you have come and rescued me if you knew I was actively working towards your arrest?”

Valjean looked sad; shrugged.  “I already told you why I came and rescued you.  Knowing that you denounced me doesn’t change that for a minute.  Besides, you were only doing your duty.”

“Was I?  I fear I greatly overstepped.  The fact that I turned out to have been right does not mean that there was no fault in my conduct.”

“From the moment I first saw you in Montreuil, I thought that my time was up.  It was only a surprise that you waited as long as you did.  I thought that perhaps you didn’t recognize me.”

“I thought I did, but I wasn’t sure. I was waiting until I had some real evidence.  But then I allowed my anger at you to get the better of me, and I denounced you.  I had no evidence.  Don’t you see?”  Javert’s voice trailed off into a snarl.

“Why were you - ah,” said Valjean, with the look of someone remembering. “The bandits.”

“Yes.”

“But after all, you were right,” said Valjean.

“That is beside the point,” said Javert.  “I lost my temper; I had no right.  It’s the principle of the thing.”

There was a long silence.

“You asked me why I came after you,” Valjean started.  “There’s another reason.”  

Javert raised his eyebrows.

“I hated the thought of you in bondage like that,” continued Valjean.

“You’ve always been soft on criminals; it's no wonder.  The only surprise is that you didn’t try and bring down the entire Farm; set loose everyone to wander in the snow.”

“No, you aren’t listening to me.  I hate the thought of  you being kept in a prison colony like that.  We may not see eye to eye - I know we do not - but you don’t deserve that.”

Javert was taken aback and did not know how to respond.  He supposed he had always assumed that all prisoners were eager for revenge upon their guards.  He still had trouble conceiving of a world in which a convict, even a former convict, might wish well upon a former guard.  Yet this appeared to be the world in which he lived.  Valjean’s actions spoke loudly for him; this was no lie.  

“Why me, though?” asked Javert quietly.  

“Perhaps because you are the type of man who would insist on telling me the truth, even when your life depends on your cooperation with me, and it could only make me mad.  Even when there is nothing that you could possibly gain.  Even when I did not ask for it,” said Valjean, but there was a smile behind his words and no real bite to them.  He had the air of a man talking about the weather.  

 

Javert took that in, but did not know what to do with that information.  Valjean didn’t seem inclined to say any more.  Javert retired to his sleeping bag to brood over the mystery that was Valjean, but it had been an exhausting day.  He turned away from Valjean, and quickly fell asleep.  

***

It had been snowing overnight, and everything outside looked soft and plush in the morning.  The skies were still gray, and some small flakes continued to fall, but it was clear that the main snowfall had already taken place.  They got out their skis as they packed up the camp.  

As they started out, Valjean and Javert continued to work as a team, navigating the sledge around the trees as they went, but obstacles were fewer between now that the snowfall had evened things out.  They traveled fast, and soon pulled the sledge together, side by side.  

Javert was not in the habit of skiing much.  In the winter, he often patrolled out in the cold, but he only covered relatively short distances in the town, and when the snow grew too deep, he relied on snowshoes rather than skis to get around.  Valjean was in the habit of taking long walks in the countryside during Montreuil’s rather brief summer, and he took these outings on skis during the winter.  As such, despite Javert’s longer limbs, Valjean was a much more elegant, practiced skier.  

They soon left the forest behind them, reaching the timber line and picking up even more speed. Before they made it to the Gobrin Ice, they would need to scale the Sembensyen Mountains, which now loomed clearly within view. They skied over the foothills, making their way north to a spot that promised to be a little easier to climb between peaks.  Soon they once again had to switch out their skis and make their way forward on snowshoes.

They climbed the flank of the mountain, the steep slope and occasional protruding rocks making it hard to navigate with the sledge.  Their route was narrow and it was difficult to travel two abreast.  Valjean went ahead to scout out the best routes, while Javert took the first shift hauling the sledge.

Javert was lost to deep introspection.  Everything that he had taken in during the past few days was catching up with him.  Pulling the sledge was hard work, but with Valjean scouting ahead, it left his mind entirely too free.  He had only to follow Valjean.  And that was the problem.

Here he was, in the middle of the wilderness, following a known criminal.  One who was actively adding to his crimes; who had just admitted to a string of additional thefts.  Yet Javert was going along with his plans.  Javert had had no say in his own rescue, it was true, but after that, he could have made another decision.  But what were his options?  Imprisonment, death.  He knew that to strike out through the wilderness on his own would likely be a death sentence.  If he were going to attempt to complete his mission, Valjean’s plan was his only choice.  

And there was very little question in Javert’s mind that, given the opportunity, he would do his utmost to complete his mission.  Javert was fundamentally an obedient man - that is how he found himself out here, of course.  He was pleased to serve Chabouillet as ordered.  Even if those orders took the form of a mission that he felt himself profoundly unsuited for, he would obey.  Now, in the course of the mission, he found himself obeying Jean Valjean of all people. 

The worst thing was that part of him didn’t mind.  He found himself reluctantly admiring Valjean.  Could the mayor really have been as good as everyone said? Evidently.  He appeared to be willing to sacrifice everything for the good of the town of Montreuil and for Javert.  Valjean would have been safe in Mishnory had he simply looked the other way while his persecutor was imprisoned.  He had no responsibility to Javert, whatever he said.  His actions were wholly unforeseen generosity.  His future was cast into darkness for the slight chance that he could protect Javert, and in doing so, protect Montreuil.  And it wasn’t just this big sacrifice.  This undeniable, shocking gesture of generosity illuminated all the kind actions performed by Mayor Madeleine with a new light.  They were transformed by a kind of alchemy from fool’s gold into the real thing.  Madeleine was real; all his kind actions that Javert had held in contempt as either the clever disguise of a convict or the machinations of a self-serving businessman were real, too.  The greater sacrifice of Valjean transformed the lesser ones of Madeleine in Javert’s eyes.  

Their conversation last night had torn into Javert.  Until then, he was able to convince himself that Valjean hadn’t known the truth; that Valjean would surely turn on him when he knew that Javert had been actively working towards his downfall.  The idea that Valjean would turn on him, and leave him to die when he knew the truth was like a perverse mental safety net for Javert.  It allowed him to think that surely Valjean’s magnanimity could not be as great as it appeared.  It kept him from having to deal with the full ramifications of Valjean’s actions.  Now that there were no secrets between them, what was left?  Not trust; not yet.  No real understanding.  A chasm, which seemed to Javert to grow and grow the more he considered it.  A chasm that could swallow him whole.

Looking from past to future, Javert saw only darkness.  His situation could only get worse.  Assuming that they survived their journey, which did not seem terribly likely, he would be faced with the impossible choice of whether or not to turn Valjean in.  His duty, of course, would be to turn him in immediately on his way to report to Chabouillet.  But, said a new voice in Javert’s head which he barely recognized, he could turn the other way, and encourage Valjean to start over under a new name, in a different part of Karhide.  Very few others would know what Jean Valjean looked like after all this time - without Javert’s testimony, he would likely be safe.  Valjean would at least have a chance.  Javert had never done such a thing; never shown mercy on a criminal in his power.  Could he start now?  Should he start now?  Perhaps that was the wrong question:  how could he do anything else?  

And then if he let Valjean free, where did it end?  How could he place Valjean alone outside the law?  How would he know what was right and wrong going forward?  He had always found it very straightforward, but if a man like Valjean could perform illegal acts with beneficent intent, then it seemed not unlikely that others did so as well (not quite like Valjean, said a treacherous voice in his head; there is no one like Valjean).  

Javert looked back to the past.  He, Javert, had caused harm.  If the people he had arrested could no longer be all painted with the same brush, he had to admit to himself that he had likely hurt others who had not deserved it.  What good would others be capable of, if they had been given the chance to redeem themselves, as Valjean had apparently done?  And what did that make Javert?  He, who had striven always to be irreproachable, now found himself confronted by his own conscience.  He had always warned himself that he would be just as harsh on himself as on any criminal he arrested if he slipped up morally, and had he not now caught himself compromised?  He was damned by the law and his old moral code if he let Valjean go; damned by this new, ungainly, fledgling conscience if he didn’t.

If he were not to navigate undeviatingly by the law, where did that leave him?  He had used the strictest of compasses, and now found that it had failed him.  He had no map, no guidance for this new life he found himself suddenly plunged into.  Javert was not a man who did well with uncertainty.  He had struggled with the uncertainty of Madeleine’s identity; he staggered under this new load of uncertainty. All this, compounded with the physical exhaustion of the past few days, threatened to crush him.

Javert was caught in this maelstrom of thoughts, and just wanted them to end.  He would give anything for his life to be simple again: to receive orders from a law-abiding superior, to carry them out, to be at peace with himself.  To live a quiet life free from all the confusion and distress that Valjean had managed to stir up.  He knew he could never go back.  Inside, he was like a roiling river, and the sediment stirred up by Valjean would not settle back down simply because he wished it.  He grew weightier by the minute, pulled under the current of his own thoughts.  

In that moment, it seemed to Javert a truth as cold and pure as the crust of snow they were walking on.  There was only one way he could retain his honor without betraying Jean Valjean. 

Javert stepped to the edge of the precipice, looking down.  It would do, he thought.  Alone, and cold.  Somehow it suited him.  He started to free himself from the harness connecting him to the sledge.  Valjean, perhaps no longer hearing his progress, turned around and noticed him.  

“Javert!  ” Valjean’s call carried across the distance.  “What the hell are you doing? ”

Valjean had turned around, and was running downhill rapidly towards Javert.  He reached him in a moment, and pulled him roughly away from the edge.  Javert was losing his balance, and Valjean caught him by the parka and pushed him another step further from the edge.  Javert fell to his knees in the powdery snow.  This was too much, he couldn’t…

Valjean knelt beside him, one hand still partially outstretched as if to catch him. “Do you want to tell me what that was about?”

“I can’t - there’s nothing wrong with wanting to take a break, looking out over the mountainside.”  Javert’s look was wild.

“Whatever you think of me, I’m not stupid,” Valjean was being unusually forceful.  He tilted Javert’s head up to look at him.  

“I…don’t think …”  Javert trailed off, swallowing.  The intensity of the flesh and blood man, after the intensity of what Javert had been building up in his head, was overwhelming.  He moved away as if scalded by the touch.

“You are the most honest man I know.  Be truthful with me now,” said Valjean quietly.  He gently recaptured Javert’s chin, and again turned him back to face himself.

Javert withdrew. “I intended to jump.  Is that what you wanted to hear?”  

Valjean took a deep breath.  “Why?”

“Everything - it’s too much.  You.  I don’t have to explain myself to you.”  Javert worked his gloved hands into the snow, absently squeezing the powder together into clumps, heedless of the cold.

“There’s no one else here.”

“That’s true - of all the people - I can’t believe -” Javert looked away.  Valjean, not to be deterred, caught him again.  “I don’t know what’s right anymore.”

“You can’t kill yourself because of that.”

“It’s my right to make that decision for myself.  It’s all I have,” Javert said.  Valjean would not take this away from him, too.  

“You have to promise me that you will not try anything of that sort again,” said Valjean, as if he hadn’t heard Javert’s protestations.

“I owe you no promises, Valjean.”

“Christ in heaven, Javert, I don’t know how we are going to be able to make it if I have to watch your every move.”  Valjean was finally losing his patience, a fact that perversely pleased Javert.

“You would make it better without me, I have no doubt.”

“I don’t know that I would be able to survive out here on my own.  I was counting on there being two of us to find the way and share the burden.”

“The food would last you longer,” countered Javert.

“I wouldn’t be able to haul the sledge as effectively, or to scout ahead.  And where would I go, Javert?  And why?  There’s no point in my being here at all without you.  Like it or not, we are all that we both have and you cannot throw your life away.”

Javert was silent.  He knew that he could not condemn Valjean to death along with himself.  

Valjean’s fingers on his face were becoming too much, even through the mittens.  Too much, and not enough.  A treacherous part of him wanted comfort, although he knew he did not deserve it.  

“Listen to me,” said Valjean, “I know that if you make me an oath, you will honor it.  Tell me that you will do everything in your power to stay alive.”

Javert hated himself, for even considering swearing an oath to a criminal.  He hated himself, for how much he wanted to simply obey Valjean and find what peace he could in doing so.  Then:

“I will do it.  I swear that I will do everything in my power to stay alive,” he said, finally finding the strength to look into Valjean’s eyes as he did so.

“Good,” said Valjean, releasing Javert and offering him a hand to get up.  Javert got to his feet without taking the offered assistance and straightened himself up.  He was surprised to find that he did somehow feel better.  Having made this small decision was a step forwards towards making the larger ones.  He still felt an overwhelming pain seated inside him, but having made the commitment to not act on it felt better.  It calmed, settled down into a bearable weight.

By that afternoon, they reached the conclusion that there was no way forward on the peak they were climbing.  All routes led to a precipice more or less like the one that Javert had stared down earlier.  They had to turn around again and make their way back the way they came.  The downhill climb was treacherous going, and both men were deeply discouraged.  They each tugged on one end of the sledge to keep it from running ahead.  They set up camp that night less than a mile from where they had started, by Valjean’s calculations.

***

That night in the tent, Valjean wondered how to best broach the subject of Javert’s breakdown earlier, or if he should at all.  They had spoken so little since then:  nothing beyond making the decision to come back the way they had come, and the bare minimum needed setting up the camp. On one hand, it seemed like a good idea to let it go.  The subject was so clearly a painful one, and Javert didn’t appear to be in the habit of sharing his emotions.  Javert had a reputation for solitude, with no family, no lover, and no close friends that Valjean knew of.  He stood alone in Montreuil, and perhaps he would prefer to be alone in spirit here, too.  On the other hand, Valjean was driven by the need to offer some solace if possible.  He believed in the oath Javert had sworn, but Valjean did not want Javert to be tied to life merely out of obligation.  He had to try to reach him on some other level.

“Javert?” he asked eventually, facing him across the stove after they had eaten a meager dinner.  “Can I tell you a story?”

Javert looked like he was one hair away from rolling his eyes, but he said, “all right.”

“When I left prison, I was a hard man.  Rather like the man you still seem to think that I am.  You may not have been wrong about me, once.  But I met a priest who offered to help me - gave me food and a bed for the night.  I didn’t understand him; didn’t understand what he was trying to offer me.  I ignored his message of kindness, and I’m ashamed to say that I stole from him.” Javert nodded angrily.  “As I see you know.”

“I suspected,” Javert said, echoing his earlier words.

Valjean smiled sadly. “When I ignored the generosity he tried to show me, he didn’t give up on me.  He simply showed me again, more forcefully the next time.  He told the arresting officers that they were to free me; that there had been a mistake.  He told them, and me, in the process, that he had given me the silver that I stole as a gift.”

“I was wondering how you got away with it,” interjected Javert.

“Not my doing, I can assure you.  I was quite out of my wits.  I’ve never been so surprised in my entire life.  I don’t know how to explain why I did it at all - I was in survival mode, stalking along in darkness.  I had been for nineteen years.  Longer, to tell you the truth.  Nothing mattered but survival.  Sure, there were the little details that changed.  I went from having no food to eating my fill of prison beans, from lonely privation to the roughest of company.  But still, a world of loneliness and survival.  When I got out, I carried all of that world with me on my back; in my soul.  

“You will imagine my surprise when it turned out that my redeemer was no town priest, but the bishop himself.  I had never expected notice from such a quarter, less alone kindness.  But he went further, Javert.  He gave me his two silver candlesticks, which I had never thought to steal.  In return, he made me promise that I would use the money to start my life over as an honest man.  What could I do but agree?  I scarcely agreed at all, to tell the truth.  He was rather insistent, which I suppose was his right under the circumstances.”

“And then just so, you restarted your life.  A lovely story,” said Javert with more than a hint of sarcasm.  He was closed off; arms drawn tightly around his chest.

“No.  I’m afraid not.  I fled from the bishop; could not bear the man’s presence anymore.  And when I was alone, I hadn’t managed to get away from my thoughts.  Everything felt unbearable, and everything was falling apart around me.  Do you know, at times I wished that the soldier guard had taken me away?  At least that would have been simple, what I knew and expected.”  Valjean was watching Javert carefully.  “The way it turned out, I didn’t know what to do next, where to go, or how to live up to what the bishop wanted from me.”

Valjean waited.  Javert had stiffened, hand raised to his throat defensively and looking at Valjean with wide eyes.  Valjean knew that he could keep waiting; Javert had clearly caught his drift. 

“My situation is nothing like that,” Javert finally said.

“Why not?”

“‘Why not?’  The burden should be on you to show ‘why,’” Javert said peevishly.

“Hmm, alright, if you permit me to take the liberty…” said Valjean with some hesitation.  He wasn’t sure how Javert would react to the next part of his story, or to any comparisons he might be implying.  He sensed that Javert was still in a bad place mentally, and he wanted to sooth him rather than agitate him further.

“Go on,” snapped Javert.

“Anyone can restart their life after an act of grace.”

“If I follow you, you are comparing yourself to a holy bishop, and me to a newly-paroled convict?”

“Not in the particulars.  But there it is - you say ‘newly-paroled convict’ - you didn’t see me as just a man, and sometimes I think that you still don’t.”

“Hmm.  I see no harm in applying the correct terms to a man.”

“There’s harm when you reduce someone to their worst mistake.  … Mistakes.”

“Yes, ‘mistakes,’ in the plural.  I see a pattern here.”

Valjean tamped down his anger.  This conversation was not going the way he wanted it to. “Javert.  I am trying to talk about you.  I don’t know exactly what is going on with you today, but I don’t think that you can go on like this.  You nearly killed yourself today!  If I hadn’t been there…”  Valjean stopped himself.  If he hadn’t been there, would Javert have even reached that point of crisis in the first place?  He started again.  “There’s something else I did back then; something I’m deeply ashamed of to this day.  I would do anything to be able to take it back,” Valjean said.  “While I was on the side of the road, stewing over everything, a child came along.”

“Oh, yes, the Savoyard - you robbed him.  I know.”

“You know.  How?” asked Valjean.

“The boy reported the theft, of course, right in the area where Jean Valjean was last known to have been.  And his description of the perpetrator matched, well enough.”

“You seem to be well informed on the case,” said Valjean with narrowed eyes.  

Javert flushed slightly; whether with anger, or embarrassment, Valjean couldn’t tell.  “It’s my business to be informed of these things.  I did some investigations into your history when I suspected you of being an imposter in the role of mayor.”

“...I see.  Well, I had a point in bringing it up.  I suppose you won’t believe me, but the truth is that I never intended to rob him.  His coin rolled to me; I put my foot on it.  He tried to get me to return it, and that’s when I lashed out at him.  He was frightened, poor child.  Later I panicked, and tried to return the coin.  You must believe that I did.  But I couldn’t find him.  After it was all over, and I had moved on to the next town, I couldn’t stop thinking about it.  

“I would have done anything to take back what I had done.  It occupied my mind, consumed me.  Later on my travels, there was a great fire.  Several houses right in the center of town were burning up.  The smoke, the people screaming - it was a horrible scene.  I quickly heard that there were two children trapped inside one of the houses, and I could think of nothing in that moment except that I had to save them.  I did.  I rushed inside, found the children, and carried them back outside.  Added another scar to my collection in the process, but it was a small price to pay.  The townsfolk called me a hero, but I knew that I was no hero.  I did what I must to try and help those children, to atone for some small part of what I did to Petit Gervais.  

“The town was Montreuil, and they never did get around to asking for my papers,” he added with a slight grin.

“Again, I know,” said Javert.  “I found plenty of people willing to tell me that story when I first arrived here.”

“I suppose that I’m lucky that you weren’t already there at your post - I doubt that you would have forgotten about my papers so easily.”

“I very much doubt it,” agreed Javert.

“My thoughts drove me to jump into a flaming building to try and atone for my guilt.  Whatever is plaguing you, it nearly drove you to jump from that outcropping today.  I was able to say that my actions were to save children, but you, you would have thrown your life away for nothing.  I cannot let you do that.”

“Hmm,” growled Javert.  “Once you established yourself in Montreuil, it was clever of you to conceal who you were through your good deeds.  I’ve heard of such things before, but it’s never your common thief who does it.”

Valjean was offended.  “I don’t do ‘good deeds’ to conceal who I am.  I do it because it is necessary for me now.”

“Necessary how?”

“I suppose I want to be the person that the bishop once wanted me to be.  And to atone for the man that I was.”

Javert said nothing.  His silence prickled at Valjean.

“You said that you don’t know what is right anymore,” said Valjean, eyeing Javert.  “Do you want to elaborate?”

“No,” Javert said simply.

“That’s your right. I have your oath, and I will content myself with that.”  Valjean leaned forward and, placing a hand on Javert’s knee, rubbed it in what he hoped was a reassuring circle.  Javert flinched away; clearly not reassured.  His eyes were wide and focused like a hawk on Valjean.  

“Get some sleep,” growled Javert finally, as he climbed into his sleeping bag and sank deep inside it.  

Valjean couldn’t argue with that; they had had an exhausting day on the mountain.  He retired to his sleeping bag and despite his worries for Javert, was asleep almost immediately. 

The next morning, Valjean and Javert said nothing about the last night’s talk.  They quietly ate and then set to the task which was becoming familiar, of taking down the camp.  Their challenge for the day was to try to find another route up the mountain.  They skied along the base of the mountain until they saw a more promising looking route that appeared to lead to a pass between two craigs, and after a brief consultation, decided to try it.  

This route proved easier than the last, and it promised to be a good day’s hauling.  Both men harnessed themselves to the sledge and pulled.  Valjean was stronger, by far, and they both knew it.  But Javert had an endurance borne of many years of long patrols, and he was able to haul alongside Valjean without feeling like a dead weight.  

They reached a point at which they had to once more take the skis off and exchange them for snowshoes, due to the slope of the mountain.  They were ascending the southwestern face of the mountain pass.  Jagged peaks rose around them, stark white and blue shadow in the clear, sunlit day.  It could almost look soft, but rocks peered out here and there from steep faces where the snow did not stick, spoiling the illusion.  As it was a sunny day, and the thermometer on the sledge read just above freezing by midday, the snow was becoming soft and damp.  Sun reflected brightly off the snow’s surface, and both men were sweating, side by side but alone in their minds. 

Both were preoccupied with thoughts of the previous night’s conversation. Javert stewed, wondering what Valjean had meant by comparing their situations.  He was not yet fully convinced.  Could it be true that he was trying to atone for something through violence against himself?  (If he could only be sure what it was that he needed to atone for, he felt that it would go a long way towards reassuring him.)  He couldn’t say what his own reasoning for his action was, beyond wanting to end the pain he was in.  But he knew that he would not act on the pain today.  He felt absolutely bound by his promise to Valjean.  

By sunset, they had not reached the crest of the mountain range, but they had made excellent progress.  They were even relatively lighthearted as they set up the tent and brought in their sleeping bags and other supplies for the night.  Javert found that he could smile again in response to Valjean’s happy mood, and he was looking forward to getting some sleep.

***

That night Valjean sat quietly in the tent with Javert.  They had very little to say, and they had already eaten and cleaned up for the night.

He had thought he would find Javert’s presence oppressive.  When he had thought about the journey they must undergo, on his way to Pulefan Farm to rescue Javert, he had dreaded the inevitable close quarters they would be sharing.  Valjean had grown up in poverty, with very little in the way of space.  In Toulon, he was chained to another man for most of his sentence, privacy an unknown luxury.  He had made up for it when he got free, living a mostly solitary life outside of his work.  The people of the town didn’t see it, but his solitude and isolation was the greatest luxury he had bought for himself.  

Now, he was to be metaphorically chained to Javert, working in tandem with him all day and sleeping next to him at night, as if he were another of Valjean’s rotating chain-mates from Toulon.  Added to the potential stress was the fact that this was one of his antagonizers: a man committed to his arrest and imprisonment.  Who in fact still intended to send him back to the prison camps when he got the chance.

But being in close contact with Javert was hardly a burden at all.  They were both surprised to find that they had similar habits.  Spending a day with Javert, traveling and pulling the sled, then retiring to their tent at night:  there was a pleasing domesticity there which he had never known before, and was shocked to find under these circumstances.

Javert still had a disconcerting tendency to stare at him.  The man’s gaze still sent a shiver down his spine.  Valjean didn’t understand why Javert flustered him like this.  As far as being arrested went, Javert was the least of his worries at this point.  He would be wanted in Orogoreyn and Karhide alike, for serious crimes.  He had resigned himself to his fate, and there was nothing more beyond that which Javert could do to him.  Why then did he react this way to his stare?

“You are quiet tonight,” said Javert.

Valjean hummed noncommittally.  

Javert looked thoughtful - his usual frown was present but he didn’t look particularly angry.  

“But that’s what they said about you in Montreuil, as well,” said Javert.  “Here’s a quiet man, they said.  Here’s a man for whom every door is open, yet he never walks in.”

“It’s true; I wasn’t one for social events.”

“Hmm.  I’ve heard how you attended the funerals of the town, never weddings or christenings.  Why?”

Valjean looked at him sadly.  “They make me feel.  That loss, that sorrow that fills the atmosphere - it speaks to something in me that’s been there a long time.  The atmosphere of a funeral, it shakes something loose in me.  My time in Toulon hardened me.  Perhaps I go there to get reacquainted with the more innocent man I was, the man who could cry.  And in any case, if I am to be a part of the town, I know what part I am destined to be.  I’m not made for the joy of a wedding - what would I have to say to a radiant, blushing bride and groom, and their delighted families?  But I can be with the aching, who can’t speak without crying, or who are so past tears that their faces are stone.  There, I think, I am closer to God.”  

Javert looked puzzled, as though he had no idea what to say to that.  Valjean’s little speech had surprised himself as well; he had no intention of exposing his innermost thoughts to Javert’s scrutiny until the moment he was doing so.  How could this possibly feel so natural?  

In the silence that followed, Valjean tried to recall what he knew of Javert’s habits.  Perhaps it would be uncouth to bring up Javert’s isolation - he had no doubt that the man received fewer invitations and other overtures of friendship than Madeleine had.  How much of Javert’s isolation had been voluntary, and how much was the product of his circumstances?

“Well, I suppose you will be close enough to God if we ever make our way to the top of this blasted mountain range,” said Javert eventually.  

“There’s something of that closeness in nature as well, you’re right,” said Valjean, not wanting to take the bait.  He wondered if Javert’s sarcasm was a defense against the vulnerability he, Valjean, had shown.  His attending funerals was no affectation.  For in a sense, Valjean was in mourning.  He was grieving - grieving for life and the way it was.  He supposed that it had been too much to expect that Javert would understand that.  Javert was not the type to grieve for the way things were. 

He realized that once again, he was silent under Javert’s stare.  

“Shall I leave you be?” asked Javert.

“As you like,” answered Valjean.

“Good night, then.”  Javert retired to his corner of the tent.  They would have to give one another space, after all, or two such strong-willed men would never survive together in these close quarters.  

***

The next day, they awoke to find that it had snowed again overnight - nothing major but there was more on the ground than they had remembered.  Valjean and Javert resumed their hard climb up the mountain.  All around them were high craigs and sharp precipices, as they made their way up through a ravine.  They were not here to summit the peaks - their goal was just to get through the range alive.  In the harsh, bleak landscape around them, that seemed hard enough.

It was terribly tough going. On top of their existing fatigue, each step upwards in the snowshoes, pulling the sledge behind them, was a struggle.  But in the afternoon, they turned a bend and then could see the top of the pass.  They glanced at one another, and Valjean smiled, or else Javert did - they were too tired to notice these details - and the other was soon smiling too.  They picked up the pace and made it to the top of the pass, where they were rewarded with a fantastic view of the valley beyond.

They stood at what felt like the top of the world, despite the rising peaks around them that went objectively higher.  The mountain pass near Montreuil was nothing like this: covered in trees and vegetation, and not nearly such a high elevation.  Here, the world seemed young and fierce.  There was no room for humankind here, no sign of any person or animal anywhere they could see.  The valley below was absolutely uninhabited.  

As they looked out over the valley, only the splendor was visible, not the danger and hardship that they both knew waited for them there.  Brilliant white snow stood in starkest contrast to the black volcanic rock, hard, with a watercolor’s brush of blue shadows and gray rocks left behind by the retreating glacier.  A jumble of textures, soft, hard, rough; all of it clean and cold.  

Valjean felt so small, and inexplicably happy, against all the odds.  Javert stood next to him, looking impassively at the valley.  Valjean felt the strongest urge to share what he was feeling, to be one with the only other person in this harsh, beautiful landscape.  He clapped his hand to Javert’s shoulder without thinking much about it, and gently kneaded through the thick winter coat.  

Javert turned, and caught him in his intense dark gaze, but did not tell him to stop.  His lips parted slightly as if to speak, but he said nothing.  Javert turned back to look to the valley, and Valjean’s hand fell a little lower on Javert’s back before he let it drop.  There was a fluttering in his chest that he would examine more when he had the time for it.  

“We should be going,” said Valjean reluctantly.  “We won’t want to be up here, exposed, when night falls.”

“All the same, it’s a nice view,” said Javert.  “I’ve never seen the like.”

They remained, looking out over the valley for another few moments.  Valjean would hold this moment; take it with him like a treasure he had found along the way.  But for now, they needed to move on.

***

The trip down the slope promised to present its own difficulties.  After taking a moment to further secure the sledge between them for the descent, they began, having exchanged their snowshoes for skis.  Valjean was attached to traces behind the sledge and was making sure that it did not overtake Javert, who was pulling from the front.  

The slope became steep fast, as they tried to find a route with as few rock features as possible.  What would be ideal terrain for a skilled recreational skier was difficult to navigate safely with all their gear.  They zig-zagged their way down cautiously.  Despite the care that they were taking, it was much faster going down than climbing the mountain had been.  If their luck held, they would easily be in the valley below by nightfall.  

The first sign that their luck would not hold was a loud WHOMPF sound.  Javert turned to look at Valjean, just in time to see the cracks spreading out on the snow slab on which he stood.  The cracks deepened and widened, and then the snow came loose.  Both skiers slid down the slope as the avalanche picked up strength, and soon everything was a white blur.  

Javert could no longer see Valjean; could no longer see anything.  He was being carried downhill in a wave of snow, and all he could do was attempt to swim to the top and hope that they would not be dashed against a rock.  It felt like a small eternity, but soon the violent snow came to a stop.  He was only half-buried, and was able to stand up with a grunt of effort, pushing through the dense snow which had nearly pulled him under a moment ago.  He immediately looked around for Valjean, and saw no one.

 No, he thought.   He can’t be gone.  He couldn’t panic, he reminded himself.  If Valjean were still alive - and he must be - time would be of the essence.  He needed a level head.

Javert saw the partially buried sledge, and remembered that Valjean had been attached to it.  He pulled the traces, unearthing several more feet of them, and started to dig.  He dug frantically, following the leather straps down into the snow.  It was densely packed, and the going was slow.  He tried not to think about what would happen if he could not get there fast enough.  He tried not to think at all, tried to channel everything he had into movement.  

Finally, he hit a hand.  He dug furiously, doglike, following the arm and trying to find and free Valjean’s face.  He hit a pocket of air, and there was Valjean.  Valjean was unconscious but breathing heavily.  Javert suspected that he had been running out of oxygen in the small bubble of air which had formed around him.  He had been buried for nearly 15 minutes, although Javert had very little sense of the time which was elapsing.  He continued digging frantically. 

“Come on, Valjean, wake up,” he growled as he dug.  It took on the tone of a mantra as he repeated himself.  Yet he did not stop digging - he had to get Valjean out of the mound of snow.  Once he felt that he had loosed enough snow, he pulled and pulled until he felt Valjean coming free of its grip.  He collapsed alongside the still unconscious Valjean, then peeled off his gloves and felt for a pulse in Valjean’s wrist.  It was very weak, but there.  Valjean’s breathing had begun to slow.  He stirred a little at the touch.

“‘S cold,” Valjean slurred.  

“Hush,” Javert said.  His matter-of-fact manner concealed his relief.  He turned his attention back to the sledge.  Now that Valjean was no longer in danger of asphyxiation, Javert was forming a plan.  The snow had gotten into and through the water resistant clothing, and Valjean was in real danger of hypothermia.  He needed to get Valjean warm, but there was no way that they should be setting up camp on this unstable snowpack, on this slope.  The warmth from the tent and stove would further destabilize the snow pack.  No sense in setting off another avalanche if they could possibly help it.  But Valjean would not be able to ski in his current condition.  Javert would load him onto the sledge and complete the trip down the mountain.  Then he could set about getting Valjean warm in safety.

Javert dug out and righted the sledge as quickly as he could.  Thankfully they had packed it well that morning and their gear had not come loose.  He used the set of traces that Valjean had been using to tie the man to the top of the sledge, working quickly rather than gently.  Then he refastened himself to the sledge and started moving with no further fanfare.  He would have to risk a swift descent.  

Javert reached the bottom of the main slope of the mountain quickly and without further incident.  He quickly found a reasonably flat spot and stopped.  Javert wasn’t much of a mountaineer, but he did not think that avalanches could form at a low slope like this, and there would be no one moving on the mountain above them to potentially set off a larger one that could reach them.  

Javert carefully unloaded first Valjean, then the tent from off the sledge.  He set up the tent alone, struggling briefly and unskillfully with the poles in his haste.  He was relieved to see that the inside of the tent had stayed dry.  He put the Chabe stove on its maximum setting, and brought Valjean inside.  He then went back out to rummage around for dry clothes for Valjean, who was growing wetter and wetter as the trapped snow melted.  He found them, grabbed a blanket and their sleeping bags, and returned to the inside of the tent.  Valjean was still conscious but extremely weak.  

This was no time to be shy, he told himself.  He helped Valjean out of his clothes, helped him dry with the blanket, and eased him into the sleeping bag.  

He briefly considered joining him in the sleeping bag - it would be a terribly tight fit but they could share warmth.  He watched as Valjean warmed up enough to begin shivering, with his whole body shaking.  Javert wanted to make it stop; wanted Valjean to be safe and comfortable.  But he knew he must already be blushing, and the thought of pressing himself against Valjean’s naked body was something from one of the more colorful dreams that afflicted him.  Not even to be considered by the light of day.

Javert brooded as he put water on to boil, and added some of the nutritious bullion cubes which they had brought.  When faced with the loss of Valjean, he had nearly panicked.  But dangerous situations were part of his profession, and he was able to pull himself together long enough to get them both to safety.  Now that it was clear Valjean would survive, it was time to wonder about his feelings.  It was obvious to him that Valjean’s safety had come to mean a great deal to him.  He wondered when that had happened.  This was not the general concern that Javert felt for the safety of the public, coming from a place of duty.  This was a sharp feeling, tearing at his soul.  

He had to admit that he … cared for Valjean.  

The broth was ready.  He took it off the stove and put it into one of the small insulated bowls from which they ate.  

“Here,” he said.  “Drink this.”

Valjean scooted up to a sitting position, holding the sleeping bag tightly around himself.  He was already shivering less.  Reaching out, he accepted the broth from Javert.  

“Thank you,” he said, and Javert thought he understood that he was not just talking about the broth.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean sipped the broth thoughtfully.  He was deeply ashamed to have needed rescue, although the more logical part of his mind understood that the avalanche was a force of nature, and it could have just as easily buried Javert.  And in that case, he would have done the same thing as Javert had.  He supposed that he should feel lucky that the snow had spared at least one of them, to rescue the other.  His memory of the afternoon was blurry.  There was the noise, then the wall of snow.  He had the presence of mind to protect his mouth and nose as he was swept along, and to frantically dig a small space for breathing as the snow settled down around him.  But the snow packing down on him was too dense for him to be able to dig himself out with no leverage.  He had never felt so helpless in his life, and soon he had lost consciousness. 

The next thing he was vaguely aware of was being on the snow next to Javert, but it was a gray, dull memory which he couldn’t hold onto, no matter how much he reached for it.  He came to fully in the tent, and was even more embarrassed when he remembered Javert’s hands on him, efficiently stripping and drying him. He hated feeling this helpless and vulnerable in front of Javert.  

They sipped the broth in silence.  The sleeping bag kept slipping from Valjean’s shoulders, and Javert tossed him a heavy shirt without meeting his eyes.  Valjean put it on gratefully.  The wool enveloped him and protected him, from the cold, from Javert’s gaze.  Which, he noticed, for once was not directed at him.  

“I am…glad you are alive,” said Javert finally.  He sounded like he meant to say more, but did not.

“When the snow fell down on me, I thought I was done for,” said Valjean.  “Thank you, for digging me free.”

“We are even now,” said Javert with a smile.  Valjean was unsure if Javert meant them to be reassuring, but Javert’s smiles contained entirely too many teeth.  “You pulled me from the prison camp, and I pulled you from the snowpack.”

Valjean reflected in silence.  He knew what Javert must be thinking - the debt which troubled him was erased, and now he would have no hesitation when it came time to turn Valjean over to the authorities.  It was what he had always expected of Javert, he reminded himself.  There was no reason for the sinking feeling he was experiencing.  This time together with Javert - it was more of a slow descent into captivity than anything else, and he would do well to remember that. 

He had to admit that it was hard to remember.  

It was still daylight outside, which did not consciously occur to Valjean until Javert spoke up again.

“We shouldn’t get started again today, I don’t think.  I doubt you are in any condition to travel, and even if you were, the sun will start to set nearly as soon as we are on our way again.  Rest.”

“Makes sense,” said Valjean.  He would have liked to have made more progress, but he knew that Javert was right - he was greatly weakened by his brush with hypothermia, and it would take them time to pack up the camp and then set it up again when the sun dipped down soon.  

Valjean relaxed his sleeping bag, lying back down and enjoying the sensation of being heated all the way through by the warmth of the tent and the broth.  He was exhausted, but not ready to sleep yet.  He thought about all that had happened that day - good and bad.  It was easy to forget how happy they had been at the top of the ridgeline earlier:  the sense of triumph, the beauty, his hand on Javert, and the strange whirl of feelings that it had all inspired.  He wanted to hold the moment close as long as he could - such joys were so scarce out in the wilderness.  He corrected himself - it was not just the wilderness - he had not felt so joyful and alive during his time in Mishnory.  Hardly ever even in Montreuil.

Valjean sat back up, as he was unable to sleep yet and the ground was rather hard if one was going to remain conscious.

He watched as Javert, on the other side of the tent, attempted to comb out his hair using his fingers.  He had rather admired Javert’s long hair in the past, and it appeared that Javert intended to let it grow out again.  Valjean now found himself idly wondering what it would feel like to run his own hands through it.  Would Javert find it an annoyance, or might he lean into the touch?  Compared to the hard life they were living, the hair seemed impossibly soft and luxurious, and his wish to stroke it only grew.

 But come, he told himself,  what are you thinking?  This is Javert you are thinking about.  He is a hard man, who would see you in prison as soon as look at you.   He would be infuriated by the thought of an ex-convict touching his hair, of all things, just as he was infuriated by his own rescue.  When all this was over, if there could be any peace for Valjean, perhaps he should get a cat or something.  No more of this nonsense of petting a grown man.  

Valjean’s own hair was beginning to grow out noticeably, and he realized that he was unconsciously imitating Javert. Their eyes met, and he gave Javert a rueful smile.  He was pleased, and a little confused, when Javert returned his smile.  But Valjean was warm through and through, and for a while at least, he was safe.

***

Valjean woke Javert early the next morning, looking apologetic.  He said that he wanted to make up for some of the time they had lost the previous day, and Javert couldn’t help but agree.  

The scenery was splendid, especially now that they could appreciate it better, being over the danger of the mountain range and the threat of avalanches.  A fine mist of snow came roiling off the mountain, blowing towards the camp they were taking down.  

Unfortunately, Javert was exhausted despite their early stopping time the previous day.  Javert had slept poorly the previous night.  He tossed and turned long after Valjean was asleep.  He had had no choice, earlier, but to take off Valjean’s clothes.  At the time, it was merely mechanical, and he was entirely preoccupied with Valjean’s survival and getting him warm.  But afterwards, as they settled into doing nothing for hours, and Valjean seemed content, Javert could not get the images of Valjean’s body out of his head.  Despite their close quarters, Valjean and Javert had until now danced around one another, looking away to allow each other as much privacy as possible.  It was much better that way, Javert thought.  But now, he knew.  Nature had been generous to Valjean, and underneath his layers of clothing was an impressive layer of muscle.  And that was not all that Javert had noticed.  It was not as if Javert had never seen another man’s cock before - his time as a guard had exposed him to men in all states of undress - but never one which had featured so prominently in his fantasies.  Later, wrapped up alone in his sleeping bag, he  ached  with longing.  For Valjean, for his sturdy frame, for his muscles, for his thick cock, for  Valjean . 

 He tried to tell himself that it did not matter, now that he knew how Valjean looked, that it should not make the slightest bit of difference.  He told himself that he was nothing but the worst kind of pervert, as bad as the idlers who had nothing better to do with their time than harass women walking down the street.  None of this had any affect on his lust.  To have had the depths of his feeling revealed to him on the same day as Valjean’s body was revealed to him…it was too much.  He wanted badly to touch himself, to ease at least a little of the ache afflicting him.  But Javert did not allow himself this, and it was long before he was able to get to sleep.

He woke up to Valjean’s gentle touch on his shoulder, and sighed.  He closed his eyes briefly, then got up to start the day.  

They set off across the valley, over the foothills at the base of the mountains.  The sun, which had been so bright and which had likely contributed to the avalanche the previous day, continued to beam through a clear sky, and the day was relatively warm.  The going became hard as the snow became damper and soon it was a hard slog with the sledge.  Hard black volcanic rock, trapping the heat, emerged from the snow, and they had to stop and place the wheels on the sledge in order to continue.  Even so, it was hard going, since these were in-between conditions where neither the runners nor the wheels were able to make efficient progress.  

They inched along, eventually removing their skis as well.  Muddy snow splattered from the sides of the sledge as it went.  The two major volcanoes, Drumner and Mount Dremegole according to their map, were on either side of them.  Drumner was actively erupting, and Valjean and Javert could see a slow trickle of magma making its way down to the remaining snow.  Smoke rose into the sky, where it mingled with a few wispy clouds.  The geothermal heat was clearly contributing to the melt here.  Valjean had removed his heavy coat and was working in the sweater he wore beneath it.  Both men pulled side by side, easing the sledge along behind them.  

Javert felt small and dirty, in this sooty steaming landscape.  His shame still preoccupied him. He was sweating through his shirt but would not remove his coat.  He pushed his sore muscles as hard as he could in order to keep up with Valjean without needing a break.  

By the time the sun had set, it felt as though they had made little enough progress.  The sun set spectacularly, the ash from the volcanoes tinting the air red.  The display was fleeting but lovely, and they watched as they set up their tent.

***

Night fell early, this late in the year and this far north, and made travel impossible. It was just too risky to keep going without good visibility.  There was very little to do in the small tent after dark, although with their exhaustion being what it was, they weren’t inclined to do much except fall asleep anyway.  But at times they spoke.  That night, they found themselves on the topic of prison camps again.  Valjean was brooding - head down, quiet, and pensive.  

“What is on your mind?” asked Javert finally, thinking perhaps that the day’s hard traveling had gotten Valjean down.

Valjean waved off the question with a gesture that could almost look careless if one were not paying enough attention.  Javert was paying attention.

“Valjean.  Something is on your mind.  Out with it,” Javert said.  He was not accustomed to talking about feelings and starting such a conversation did not come naturally to him.

Valjean sighed.  “Yesterday…”

“The avalanche?” Javert interrupted.

“Yes.  When the snow buried me, I felt - it’s been a long time since I’ve felt so helpless.”

Javert watched Valjean closely, asking “Yes?” to encourage him when he went silent.

“I haven’t felt so helpless since they first put the chains on me to take me to prison,” Valjean continued.  

Javert shifted uncomfortably.  “Surely you exaggerate.  You were not sentenced to death in Toulon, after all, and yesterday you nearly died.”

“Javert, forgive me, but you now know how it is to be rendered helpless in a prison.  How your actions, your will is no longer your own.”

“It is not the same at all.  In Karhide, in our camps, we made no attempt to chain the prisoner’s minds.”  Javert’s voice grew a little heated as he thought of the drugs which had been forced on him.  There was no equivalent in Karhidish prisons.  Regardless of how Valjean said that he felt, he had still retained that last measure of freedom.  

“Did you not?” asked Valjean.  His voice was deceptively mild.  “I don’t see how you can think that a man’s mind would not be affected under those conditions.”

“It’s not the same thing at all,” Javert repeated, but he was less certain this time.  

He thought back to the sullen, withdrawn man he had known as prisoner 24,601, and to the gentle, kindly authoritative man whom he had known as Monsieur Madeleine.  Not for the first time, it seemed remarkable to him that they could truly be the same person.  Javert liked to think that the prison camps contained brutes, rather than creating them.  Surely there was no need to consider the sensibilities of these hard men when designing prison camps?

But perhaps the answer to that question was staring at him thoughtfully across the small stove.   

“I can only say what happened to me,” said Valjean. “I withdrew.  I began to mirror those whom I saw around me, and so I learned hatred and bitterness beyond what I had dreamed of before I left my home.  When I finally left prison, I was incapable of relating to another human being with kindness and openness.”

“And your bishop taught you to be kind and open again?” asked Javert.

“I don’t think so,” said Valjean pensively.  “No.”

“No?”

“He showed me kindness, certainly.  He did all he could.  But I didn’t leave his home an open-hearted man.”

“When then?”  Javert was keenly interested.  Valjean certainly seemed warm and open, to a man as reserved as Javert.

“Now, I suppose,” Valjean gave a humorless chuckle.  “If that’s what you think that I am.  I can’t remember when I was last able to talk to someone like this.”

Javert let that settle into him.  He wasn’t sure how he felt about that.  His mind was buzzing.  He wanted to get up and pace, but that was certainly out of the question in the small tent in which they could not even stand up all the way. 

Valjean had fallen silent, leaving Javert to his thoughts.

How could Javert have thought that a man like Valjean belonged in prison?  His was essentially a kind, generous nature - Javert could see that now.  It was true, the man seemed to lack impulse control.  He perhaps had needed guidance of some kind.  But, over the course of the man’s life, did not the good he had done outweigh the crimes he had committed?  

Javert felt that he was now trying to wiggle out of his own duty, that of returning Valjean to the custody of the law, and for that, he was furious with himself.  He should not let the feelings that had clearly taken hold of him where Valjean was concerned completely overwhelm his sense of duty.  But that was the thing.  How could he know what was the new moral reasoning thrust painfully upon him by Valjean, and therefore worthy of his consideration, versus what was this shameful desire for Valjean’s person, which could only disgrace him in front of God and his fellow man?  Could he trust himself to reason faultlessly where Valjean was concerned?

They spoke little more that night, each preoccupied with their own thoughts.  Valjean adjusted the stove slightly before sleep, intending to save power while they were in their warm, efficient, heat-trapping sleeping bags.

Javert watched him do it.  They had never spoken about it, but Valjean appeared to understand that he was less sensitive to the cold than Javert.  Valjean kept the stove relatively warm, despite their worries about saving fuel.  Valjean had assured him that they would run out of food before the stove ran out of fuel, and although Javert did not find that particularly reassuring, he trusted Valjean’s calculations.  In the evenings, they sat around the tent, Javert in his coat, Valjean in his shirtsleeves.  

Now Valjean pulled off his shirt, and climbed into his sleeping bag.  Valjean habitually slept with his sleeping bag unzipped, and he appeared to have abandoned modesty after the events of the previous day.  He seemed to have no idea how hard this would make it for Javert to sleep at all.  Javert did not know how he was supposed to adjust to the sight of Valjean shirtless.   

Javert fought with annoyance, and he knew not what, as he glanced at Valjean’s broad, bare back.  Nineteen years, if his memory served it, and he knew that it generally did.  Valjean played at the gentleman now, but he had been a convict.  Javert had no doubt at all that Valjean knew his way around a man’s body.  He would know how to take his pleasure.  All the man’s charity came to mind: Javert had little doubt that the man also knew how to give pleasure.   He turned away and lay down as far from the man as possible, bracing himself for another sleepless night.

***

The next day was more of the same.  Some snow remained, but traveling was rough in the volcanic field.  As they got further from the mountains, the ground leveled out and they could see the great Gobrin Ice ahead of them.  The looming wall of ice at the tail end of the ice sheet made for an intimidating sight.  When it had first come into sight, it was far in the distance, and Javert had pointed it out to Valjean.  Any joy they may have felt at seeing their goal ahead of them was soon dashed by the realization of its proportions.  It was clearly huge, although distant.  

Visibility decreased as the day went on, slight waves from the melting snow reducing visibility to the point where it was difficult to see the ice.  There was no problem with navigation, however, since they were bound to hit the glacier by traveling east. 

The terrain continued to be difficult: they used the wheels of the sledge, but they tended to get bogged down in what remained of the drifts of snow.  In addition, there was the ever-present risk of one of the wheels breaking on the sharp, hard, volcanic rock.  They had no spare.  Several times, Valjean or Javert would stop, reach down for a rock in the way, and toss it aside to make sure that the sledge was unharmed.  The grumble of Drumner was a constant companion, and at one time, they even saw a rock ejected from the volcano come crashing to the ground nearby.  They had looked to one another, grinned, and then kept pulling.  For some reason, the idea of being struck down by a volcanic projectile after all the other hazards they were risking seemed comical.  Or as close to comical as something could come in this bleak environment.

***

That night, Javert disappeared while going out of the tent to collect some of the remaining snow to melt for water.  Valjean gave him a minute, but eventually started to worry.  

“Anything wrong?” asked Valjean, poking his head outside the tent when Javert failed to come back in. 

Javert was outside the tent, holding the small pan in one hand and gazing at the sky.  The sky was especially clear that night, Valjean then noticed.

“No.  Just…the stars are nice tonight,” said Javert.  

“So they are,” said Valjean, joining him outside of the tent and looking up.  “It’s funny, I haven’t noticed them much since my childhood.”  

Valjean zipped up his coat in the cold air, and he caught Javert watching the motion.  They had become quite attuned to one another over the past week.  

“I like to look at them,” said Javert softly, his voice as deep as ever.  “They are orderly and reliable.  And they are…beautiful.  There isn’t a lot of beauty in the world I live in.”

“There is beauty everywhere, if you know where to look.”

“Trite words.”

“It’s true though.  There have been times in my life when I haven’t known how to look, is the only problem.”

Javert looked as though he were going to say something, but thought better of it.  He returned his attention to the night sky.  Valjean supposed that he had stopped himself from the type of harsh comment that would have once flown easily from his mouth.

“My mother used to show me the constellations,” Javert said instead.  He then pointed out several to Valjean; reserved at first but growing more animated as he went.

Valjean was watching Javert instead of the stars.  The moon reflected on the snow provided a soft glow, and the dim diffuse glow coming through the thick fabric of the tent added to it.  It wasn’t much light, but Valjean could see Javert well enough once his eyes adjusted.  He had never seen this side of Javert; had never seen him so enthusiastic and softened by the natural world.  It suited him.  It reminded Valjean that Javert was younger than him; there was little that seemed young about him ordinarily.

The stars were intoxicating - the vastness of heaven was on display, a sight that would make anyone feel small.  Below the stars, there was the ice stretching out as far as they could see.  They were so alone, together; and so small.  Valjean fought an impulse to put an arm around Javert, just to feel the touch of another person in the middle of so much vastness.  For a moment, he imagined that Javert might lean into it.  He might put his head on Valjean’s shoulder, and continue telling him about Perseus, the hero, or about how the stars here differed from the ones in his youth down south.  Valjean thought that he would like that, and momentarily lost himself in the fantasy.  

He knew he could not be so bold.  He might infuriate Javert, breaking the fragile peace between them.  Valjean knew what Javert thought of him, but he didn’t think that he could bear to have the contempt brought to the forefront of their relationship again.  And what if Javert felt pressured to accept his touch, as he must accept his presence?  He had done enough, after all, to interfere with the man’s life and take away his freedom to make his own choices.  He couldn’t in good conscience push further, now that he had brought him out here onto the Gobrin Ice. 

Javert interrupted Valjean’s thoughts and his own monologue with a raised voice.  “There, a meteor.”

Valjean had missed it, but the thought brought something to mind. “Do you believe in wishes?”

Javert turned to consider him.  “I don’t.  My mother did, but I never saw what good it did her.”

“That’s a little sad.”

“What’s sad about it?  I like to think that we are in charge of our own destiny.” 

“Hmm.”  Valjean was noncommittal, and Javert didn’t press farther.  Valjean rather thought there was a space in the universe for wishing on stars.  He prayed every night that God would deliver them out of the Gobrin Ice, allow Javert to complete his mission successfully, and bring peace between Karhide and Orgoreyn.  And yet, if he were to see a shooting star himself, he might make an entirely different wish.  He wished Javert would put his hand in his; not flinch away from his touch.  He wished he could press his lips to Javert’s.  Wishes for warmth between them - heat, even. It seemed an entirely different affair, this wishing.

They watched the sky in silence for a little while longer, then Valjean turned back towards the tent.  He would allow Javert his solitude for as long as he wished.  As he took his leave, he gave Javert’s arm a little squeeze through the thick coat, a gesture he hoped was reassuring.  He did not turn to see whether Javert’s attention was still focused on the sky.

***

The next morning when they woke up, it was snowing heavily, with a high wind.  The snowstorm must have blown in overnight.  Visibility was extremely poor when Javert hopped out of the tent to gather water to make breakfast.  Like many lower income Karhidish citizens, Javert was rather skilled at preparing tack multiple ways, and right now he intended to make a type of porridge for their breakfast.  Valjean took a look outside and shook his head.

“What’s that about?” asked Javert.

“We aren’t going to be able to travel today.  Not in a blizzard like this.”

“Can we afford to lose the travel time?”

“We can’t afford to get lost, or get hypothermia,” replied Valjean simply.

They remained in the tent all day while the snow fell and the wind howled outside.  It was deeply quiet inside the tent, insulated as it was by snow.  Occasionally, they would hear the light swish of snow sliding off the tent, as the snow nearest to the warmth inside melted.  They would be quite snowed in by the time the storm had passed, Javert feared.  Inside the small tent, quietness gave way to restlessness in them both from the forced inactivity.

In the end it was Javert who tried to break the silence.  “What do you read?”

“Pardon?” asked Valjean.

“What do you read?  Everyone says that you are always reading when you are not busy; always carrying a book around.  But I’ve never seen you reading, and the rumors never went so far as to say what kind of book they are.”

It was true; Valjean was all attention when he was in Javert’s presence and certainly he would not have been able to relax enough to get into a book, even if he had not been obligated to listen to a report from Javert, or to give him orders or some such.  

“Perhaps I should be grateful the rumors failed to fill in something shocking,” said Valjean at last.  

“Shocking?  Hmm. I don’t know what I would be shocked by.  As you say, I do think the worst of you,” said Javert with something almost like friendliness.  

“I forget, you see more than I do of the darker side of society.  You must not be easily shocked.”

“I should say not.”  

“Books, then, hmm,” said Valjean thoughtfully.  “I read omnivorously.  Whatever catches my eye.  I often am reading more than one book at a time.  Do you read?”

“I can read.”

“I know you can read.  I’m asking if you  like  to read,” insisted Valjean.

Javert considered.  He didn’t especially like to read, but he felt vaguely that this reflected poorly on him.  “I often read when I have spare time,” he answered truthfully.  “And you never really answered my question.  What do you like to read?”

“I like to read novels and nonfiction alike.  Sometimes I read poetry: Hardy, Housman, Rumi,” said Valjean.

Javert was struck by the idea of Valjean reading poetry - it seemed so very incongruous with the brute strength he associated with Valjean.  But poetry wasn’t a topic that Javert had opinions on, and he didn’t know any of the poets Valjean had named, so he allowed Valjean to continue.

“I’m particularly fond of travel books - guides and memoirs.  I like to imagine more of the world than I have seen,” said Valjean wistfully.  

“Surely you haven’t done much traveling?”  

“No, I haven’t.  As you very well know,” said Valjean.  “But sea voyages, mountain crossings, the customs and cultures of far-off lands - it all makes for fascinating reading.  I was reading an account of an expedition to Mt. Teremander before - before I left Karhide.  Of course, I was not able to bring any books with me.”

“I suppose you will get more than your fill of adventure now, anyway,” said Javert.

“Yes.  I never expected this, but here I am.”

“If we survive this, you will have to write a book of your own, detailing the journey.  I don’t imagine that there are many published accounts of the Gobrin Ice,” said Javert.  

“I’ve never seen one.  But you are forgetting something.  If we survive this, I will be arrested.  I will have no time for writing.”

“Ah, that’s right,” said Javert quietly.  For a moment, he had forgotten…

The silence became quite uncomfortable, until Valjean spoke up again. “But you never actually told me what you like to read, Javert.”

“I mostly read practical books.  The law, engineering, and the like.”  

“No fiction?”

“I didn’t say that.  I do read some classics.  The schoolteacher, the one who teaches the older pupils, recommends them to me.”  

“Oh?”  

“I didn’t have the time or the money for school as a youth.  I was working from a young age.  I try to make up for my … deficiencies now, and the schoolteacher is good enough to help me.”  It felt strange to be talking to Valjean like this, but not necessarily bad.  He instinctively felt that Valjean would not think harshly of him for having little in the way of formal education. 

“It’s an admirable effort.  But I’m biased.  My family didn’t have the money for school, either, and I never learned to read until I was an adult.  You know, that was the one gift that they gave me in Toulon.  I took advantage of the classes there, and learned to read.”

“I know you did,” said Javert, and he was rewarded with a warm look from Valjean.

“At first it was only about what I could get from the skill; how I could put it to use.  But then I fell in love with reading for its own sake.”

“You were an outlier there.  Most of the men taking those classes merely hoped to shirk work for a few hours a week.”

“Hmm.  I wouldn’t put it so harshly.  But come, what are some of the books that the schoolmaster recommended to you?” asked Valjean with evident curiosity.  He was not asking purely for politeness’s sake.

 “I’ve read Homer, Ovid, Sophocles, Aristotle.”

“What did you think of them?”

Javert shrugged rather eloquently.  He rather thought that enjoying it was beside the point. “I am told they are very good.  Why else would people still be reading them, after all these years?”

“I think you may be missing the point,” said Valjean, as Javert had feared.  “Did you enjoy reading them?”

“Not especially.”

“Hmm.  Have you ever read anything more recent?”

“You mean in fiction?  No, I don’t think so.”

“Why not?”

Javert felt off balance, trying to justify what he read.  He didn’t think you were supposed to have to figure out why, there were simply things that one reads because learned scholars had determined that they are what you read.  Surely it was not the place of a badly educated police inspector to say otherwise?

“None of them were on the list that the schoolmaster gave me,” he said, feeling a bit foolish about something that he had never given a lot of thought to in the past.

“You might want to branch out, and just see what else is out there.”

“You mean, novels?”

“Yes, it wouldn’t hurt you to try one.”

“I don’t see what you could possibly learn from one.  It is a waste of one’s time,” said Javert, trying to sound more confident than he felt.

“I don’t think it is,” Valjean replied mildly.   “A novel does something that nothing else can:  it lets you see the world through another person’s eyes.  Lets you see into their heart.”

“A fake caricature of a person, thought up by the author.  I fail to see how that is valuable.”

“Perhaps at worst.  But to me it seems as though the best novel writers put a bit of life into each of the characters, and into the story itself.  It requires a bit of a suspension of disbelief, you know.  You have to be willing to enter into this fictional world completely.  If you hold it at arms’ length, you will never be fully immersed in it.  There’s more to be experienced - more to learn - there than you might think.”

“Such as.”

“I…”  Valjean hesitated, and looked as though he were withdrawing back into himself, but then he regrouped.  “When I was in prison, I fear I was very much withdrawn.  I couldn’t bring myself to interact with the world around me, or to really associate with the other prisoners in any meaningful way.  Everything…everything hurt too much.  As I read more, I came to relate to others in a different way.  It’s still not easy for me; I’m not a sociable man.  But I can sit with someone else’s emotions now in a way that I never could before.”

Javert thought about it.  He had to admit that he would never have thought that the Jean Valjean he had known in Toulon would be capable of anything like charming a town and becoming a mayor.  Perhaps there was something to what he said.  He couldn’t argue with the evidence he was seeing in front of him.

“Surely there are plenty of novels that simply have no use.  Silly romantic things, written for young girls with too much time on their hands.”

“‘Use’ is perhaps the wrong word.  A plant needs only the right gardener to see its beauty.”

“Silly nonsense,” Javert insisted.

“Anyway, I like them.”

“You, Valjean?  You read romance novels?”

“I have,” he said simply.

Javert paused for a moment to take that in.  It reminded him of something else that he wanted to know about Valjean, but didn’t know how to ask.  Perhaps now was the time…

“Speaking of the rumors that buzz around you in town,” Javert started.

“Were we?”

“Yes.  The rumors about your reading habits, remember?”

“Oh yes.”

“There was one that I didn’t know whether to believe…” For once, Javert was not staring at Valjean.  His gaze was fixed on a far point of the tent.

“...Yes?”

“I don’t know how to ask this, but you know that I’m a blunt man. So I will be blunt.  That whore, Fantine:  is she your mistress?  I had heard that you set her up in a cottage outside of town.”

“Fantine?!  No.  No, I have no mistress.  Well, I suppose the cottage part is true enough.  She has a daughter, did she tell you that?  I helped her be reunited with her little girl; tried to make up for what had happened to her.  I have you to thank for bringing her plight to my attention.  Sometimes I visit, and see how they are getting along.  But certainly nothing like  that .”  Valjean looked sufficiently flustered that it was easy to believe him.  

“I see.  She and her daughter live alone, now.”

“As a matter of fact, she lives with a companion.  One of the women who works at the factory.”

“Are they…”  Javert hardly knew how to say it.

“Does it matter?  They seem to be a happy household,” said Valjean, seeming to understand Javert’s drift perfectly well.  

“It’s a sin.  But it’s not against the law, so it’s outside of my purview anyway.”

“Very magnanimous of you,” said Valjean, with a bit of a bite in his voice.

Javert could tell that he was being needled and he didn’t like it.

“Anyway,” Javert muttered, “you are the magnanimous one.  I have to admit that it was good of you to make things right for Fantine.  She seemed like an honest woman.  Honest where it counts, certainly.  Less of an honest woman in the sense that -”

“I get the picture, Javert.”

Even Javert picked up on the fact that Valjean wanted out of this conversation, and so he switched the topic back to books.  He was rewarded by the look of relief on Valjean’s face.  They continued for a long time, trying to find the names of books which they both had read.  It was a short list.  A few practical books on the law, and a bit of Plato and Catullus.  Javert was surprised that Valjean had bothered to read anything about the law; Valjean was surprised that Javert had bothered reading Catullus.

It was a pleasant enough way of spending the time, but Javert had his misgivings about speaking so openly with Valjean.  Javert had once been leaning against the stove in the Montreuil police station, attempting to get warm.  Lost in thought, he had scorched his long coat.  He had been annoyed - it was his only warm coat.  He was now at risk of repeating his error.  Valjean radiated warmth and kindness, and Javert was so cold; always so cold.  It would be easy to let himself warm himself in Valjean’s light, but if he allowed himself to get too close, surely he would be burned.  Sooner or later, it would happen.  With no more ill will than an overly-warm stove, Valjean would nonetheless burn into his soul.  

They spent the evening in silence, having exhausted all conversation.  In the extremely small quarters, not having any activity during the day, both seemed to be making an effort to avoid annoying each other.  It would be but too easy to get on one another’s last nerve out in these conditions.  They went to bed far earlier than normal, both from boredom and a sense that it would be a good idea to catch up on rest.  

As he lay down in his sleeping bag, Javert could not help but turn their earlier conversation over in his mind, and examine it from all angles.  It had been a bit of a relief to find that Valjean had not been sleeping with the prostitute Fantine. He suspected that Valjean must have developed a taste for men in Toulon - such things happened, after all.  Valjean had been able to hide it successfully in Montreuil, but his true colors would come out eventually.  Javert tried not to feel gratified.  He tried even harder not to wonder what Valjean liked; how he liked it done.  The fact that they were alone together, forced to share close quarters, changed nothing.  Javert had long been committed to chastity, and there was no reason to change his resolution now.  Even if Valjean were interested in him, which he had to admit was unlikely.  He considered himself unhandsome, and unlikely to tempt a man such as Valjean.  But as lay down to go to sleep, fantasies of strong hands stripping him, stroking him, pushing him into position, would not let Javert go.

Finally we are at least getting to the unresolved sexual tension part! It's been so long...

Since this isn't a canon-era fic, I went ahead and picked some poets that would be anachronistic for Valjean to have read in the 1820s. In this alternative universe, please just accept that Housman and Hardy had already published their work, and that Rumi was widely available in a French translation.


The snow the next morning was a thick blanket covering everything, pristine.  All of the roughness of the landscape had been smoothed out.  Here, there was hardly a shadow to be seen.  This included the sledge, unfortunately, and Valjean and Javert had to dig both the tent and the sledge free.  



Before they started moving, they took some time to wax their skis.  The terrain they had been traveling on was very rough on the skis and the runners of the sledge.  Luckily, Valjean had thought to bring a large block of paraffin wax for this purpose - such a thing would never have occurred to Javert.  With the weather as cold as it was, the wax was relatively hard and made an efficient coating for the skis.  



They were about as invigorated as they were going to get, after their time snowed in, and they proceeded to make excellent time.  The edge of the Gobrin Ice sheet grew steadily larger. 



“We’ll make it there today, God willing,” said Valjean as they paused midday to eat quickly.  It was far too cold for them to rest long without setting up shelter, and they were soon on their way. 



The day was especially cold.  Whether the wind was coming in cold off of the ice sheet, or there had simply been a change in the weather since the storm of the previous day, the change was unwelcome.  The wind picked up the fine powdered snow, and twirled it around in wispy spirals.  It rose like smoke, and if the traveling conditions had been any less bitter, it might be said to be beautiful.  But the same wind hit their faces, and the tiny flakes stung.  



After some time of this, Javert noticed that his windward eye was frozen shut.  He called to Valjean, who was alarmed and came over immediately.  






“Please hold still,” he said after a moment of thought.  Valjean cupped his hands around Javert’s face, and he brought his lips to Javert’s eye, and breathed on it, heavy, hot, and gentle.  



“Try now,” he told Javert.



“No, still -”



Valjean breathed some more, the hot exhalations warming Javert’s face.  Then Valjean’s tongue was on him, carefully tracing the lid of his eye.  Javert couldn’t breath, couldn’t move. 



His eye opened.  



“It worked,” Javert said, more calmly than he felt.



“Dry it immediately,” Valjean said, but Javert had already moved to dab the area dry with the cloth he was using to cover his nose.  



Javert trembled slightly as they resumed their course, but he was already embarrassed by his show of weakness and had no wish to display any more.  He blinked his eyes often to keep them open.  



The wall of ice grew closer and taller as the day drew to a close.  Its size had been deceptive - by twilight they had not yet reached it and had to stop for the night.  



That night, they fashioned face masks from a spare shirt, making narrow slits for the eyes.  They spoke very little.  Javert was keenly aware of how vulnerable they were in this terribly harsh environment, and he supposed that Valjean’s mind must be running a similar path.  




***




Travel the next day was swift, and soon they stood at the base of the great Gobrin Ice.  Their ascent would not be an easy one.  Up close, the glacier did not look any less like an invulnerable wall of ice.  They would have to battle their way up, with no guarantee of success or safety.  



They walked along the base of the glacier for nearly an hour before Valjean spotted a route that he said looked promising.  It was no road up the ice:  Javert could hardly make out what he was looking at.  But Javert tried to keep in mind that Valjean was a surprisingly skilled climber, and had succeeded at climbing difficult walls with the highest stakes during his escape attempts, and during Javert’s rescue.  Although Valjean had never managed to escape for good, it was never because of being unable to climb a wall that stood in his way.  



“Here,” Valjean said, untying himself from the sledge.  “I’ll attach myself to you, and you pull the sledge behind you.  Drop it if you need to.”



Javert stood still while Valjean secured the traces between them.  Then Valjean began to climb, slowly and deliberately.  He used a small pickaxe to help anchor himself and provide handholds.  Javert paid close attention to every move Valjean made, and imitated them.  For a while, it seemed as though they had a chance.  But finally, Valjean slipped further than he was able to right himself, and he and Javert crashed down to where they had started.  They landed in a painful heap, but neither had been seriously injured.  



“What do you think?” Javert asked.  “Should we try again here or look for another spot?”



Valjean rubbed the back of his neck sheepishly.  “I don’t think that we should try again here.  I’m no more likely to make it the second time, I think.”



Javert nodded.  He was resolved to follow Valjean completely in this part of the journey, no matter what his own gut feeling was.  He was nowhere near the climber that Valjean was.  



They resumed their travel along the base of the glacier.  They made several other attempts to get up the face of the glacier, but in the end, they had to camp next to it for the night.  The wall of ice dwarfed the small tent, and Javert felt vaguely discouraged while setting up camp, but tried not to let it show.



***



Valjean found Javert’s willingness to place himself in his hands going up the side of the glacier to be curiously touching.  He was not entirely sure that he liked it, however.  He felt the intense pressure to make the right decisions, and of course he had no more experience in scaling a glacier than did Javert.  He had the same feeling of being out of his depth as he had when he first was appointed mayor of Montreuil.  Valjean sighed.  At least he hadn’t botched that job too terribly, and hopefully now he wouldn’t get the two of them killed.



He went inside the tent and prepared a simple meal of tack boiled down in broth.  Valjean handed a bowl of it to Javert wordlessly.  The look that Javert gave him in return nearly took his breath away.  How had Valjean not noticed this before, this new thing in Javert’s stare?  



Valjean was unsure what to do about the desire he now saw staring at him.  He supposed that Javert thought himself better concealed than he was.  For all the man’s reserve, his feelings were written clearly on his face.  Javert was cold and hard, but he was also transparent; like ice, like glass.  And he would likely shatter before he bent.  He would likely be furious to know what he had unintentionally revealed to Valjean.  



Valjean had never been the object of desire before, not that he had noticed, at least, and he was not sure how he felt about it.  He had always thought of desire as something that happened to other people.  But he felt a warmth inside himself when he wondered what it would be like to press his lips to Javert’s.  An excitement filled him.  He might not want to stop.  Their brief touches had sent pleasant shivers through the core of him.  Would Javert let him hold him?  More?  Valjean knew himself to be a sinner, and tried to do penance, but this was a sin he had not contemplated before.  To lie with another man…he knew that was no trivial thing according to the church.  He wasn’t sure if he would be able to go through with it, if it came to that.



What was holding Javert back from simply asking for whatever it was that he wanted?  While Javert was no socialite, he was not a shy man, either.  Was it their circumstances holding him back?  Did Javert have religious compunctions as well?  Valjean wasn’t aware of the man regularly attending church.  Perhaps worst of all, was it Javert’s true feelings that prevented him from speaking up?  Valjean supposed it was quite possible for a man to feel lust and contempt for the same person, and if that was how Javert felt, then Valjean would much prefer for him to remain silent.  



The rupture between them that this new thing had the potential to cause could be fatal.  They needed to be able to rely on one another completely, and to be focused on their survival.  There was no time for them to explore this desire now.  And after all, this adventure would end in one of two ways:  they would die out here, or Valjean would be taken into custody and they would be separated, likely to never see one another again.  There would be no time for them later - there was simply no room for them to be together.  Javert likely understood this as well as Valjean did.  Perhaps that is why he held his silence.



These thoughts preoccupied Valjean until long after dinner, and he was still stewing by the time they went to bed.  



***



The next day they set off north, hoping to find a spot where the glacier’s edge dipped lower and where they would be able to successfully climb onto the ice.  The day’s scouting turned into several painful failures.  Both of them knew that any serious injury to either of them might spell the end for them both.  But there was no way around it - if they could not get onto the ice sheet then all of the travel they had done thus far had been for nothing.  They had to risk it.



Finally, they found a spot where the edge of the glacier was less steep - more of a slide than a wall.  Valjean had a good feeling about it, and took the lead.  Taking it at a crawling pace, and occasionally literally crawling over icy obstacles, wielding the pickaxe, and towing the sledge behind them, they were able to make their way to the top of the ice sheet at last.



Had either of them been more effusive people, they might have danced for the sheer joy of having survived to reach the top of the ice.  As it was, they paused to take a good long look at the view of the terrain they had traveled together these past days.  Valjean was elated - he had felt the pressure of the past two days, trying to get onto the ice safely.  Now the part of the journey that seemed to be his particular responsibility was over, and they could both focus on survival together.  Ahead was the great flat surface of the continental ice shelf, revealing itself for miles and miles.  Everything seemed possible, manageable even, as they resumed their journey.  The terrain of the ice sheet was difficult, but nowhere near the trouble that getting on the sheet had been.  



They settled into the tent that night with a deep sense of relief.  The journey onto the glacier had been a hard one, exhausting even by their recent standards.  Valjean was sore and fatigued despite his strength, and he thought that Javert must be, too.  As they rested, Valjean wondered what kind of familiarity there might be between them that could allow them to rub each other’s muscles. 



The idea was tempting, and he allowed himself to build it up in his head into a full fantasy.  He might ask Javert to remove his shirt, and lay him down on his stomach.  He would put the stove on a high setting to keep him warm while he worked.  He would run his hands over that aching back and shoulders, rubbing and kneading until Javert made sounds of contentment.  He was surprised how much the thought stirred him, going straight to his groin.  He wanted to give this to Javert but did not know how to ask.  He suspected Javert would not say no, if he phrased it right, and the thought frightened him almost more than the thought of rejection.  



***



This western part of the Gobrin Ice was shaped heavily by the geothermal activity surrounding it.  A young volcano was emerging through the ice sheet to the south, melting its way through.  The heat and pressure made distortions in the surrounding ice, causing great crevasses to open up.  Most of these crevasses ran north to south, putting them right in the way of Valjean and Javert.  The larger ones were big enough to swallow the sledge whole, and so they had to spend a great deal of time traveling north to try and make progress east.  



It was a far less risky day of traveling than the climbing had been, but it was discouraging in its own way.  They made very little progress in the right direction, despite expending considerable energy.  And the terrain was not without its dangers.



Valjean had been several feet ahead of Javert, both of them pulling the sledge through what appeared to be a smooth surface.  Whether they weren’t paying attention, or the snow had concealed the crevasse, they didn’t see it until it was too late.  Valjean disappeared with a shout, and Javert stood still immediately.  



“Are you okay down there?” he called to Valjean.



“Yes, I think so.”  Valjean’s voice echoed strangely.



“You think so?”



“I’m trying to work my foot free.”



Javert tested the ground he stood on, which still seemed to be solid.  He then inched closer to the spot where Valjean had disappeared, and looked over the edge.  Valjean was not that far down, but he would likely not be able to climb up on his own.  



“How about now?” asked Javert.  



“It’s free.”



“Hang on, I’m going to get you out of there,” Javert called.  He removed his skis - he would otherwise be pulled straight into the crevasse with Valjean - and felt his boots crunch down into the snow.  He unhitched the harness affixed to his own waist from the sledge, and threw it down in the crevasse.  “Catch ahold of that, and I’ll pull you up.”



Valjean did.  Valjean was heavy, and although he tried to use the walls of the crevasse to leverage himself up, it was still nearly more than Javert could do to get him up to the surface.  But they managed, and soon they were both sitting next to the crevasse, trying to catch their breath in the cold air.



They started off again heading northeast, mindful of the crevasse still between them and their destination.  Neither of them spoke about how close they had come to disaster.  



***



They set up camp out of sight of anything but the ice itself.  The bleak landscape suited Javert just fine.  He was exhausted and just happy that nothing worse had happened earlier when Valjean had fallen into the ice crevasse. His normally sturdy nerves could not take much more of this.  



Javert prepared a simple meal from the tack - they had run out of fresh food now and were down to the tack and nutritional bullion.  In theory, the two of them shared meal preparation duties, but Javert liked doing it, and so ended up fixing meals more often than would otherwise be strictly fair.  There was little else to do on the ice, and it spared him from some time he would otherwise spend brooding.  



They sat down together, nearly side by side and cross legged on the floor of the tent. He watched as Valjean finished off the simple meal, a rather wet and crumbled dish similar to stuffing.  Their extreme physical exertion, combined with their need to ration out their food, left them nearly always hungry, and ensured that there would never be any waste.  The food was nothing like what Valjean must have eaten as a mayor, but he always seemed appreciative of what Javert had put together.



Continuing to watch Valjean, but without really seeing him any longer, Javert reflected on the past few days.  He thought it was unlikely that he would have gotten onto the ice sheet at all without Valjean.  And his horror when Valjean had disappeared into the crevasse - it jolted to the core of him.  It was like the avalanche all over again, when he thought that Valjean was lost for good.  Those moments of horror - even more than all the more numerous quiet moments they spent together - were coming together to show Javert exactly how much Valjean had come to mean to him.  



He was still filled with doubts about what the right thing to do with Valjean was, if they made it back to Karhide.  But for the first time in his life, he knew now that it did not matter.  It did not matter what his mind told him to do about Valjean, because his heart had already made its decision.  He would not be able to bear being the reason that this exceptional man was in prison.  



Having come to this conclusion, Javert approached it with his usual decisiveness - the decisiveness he had thought lost when he was rescued by Valjean.



“Valjean?” he started.



“Hmm?”



“I can’t - there is something that I have to tell you.  A decision - well.”  Javert was floundering.  Valjean continued to look at him with his soft brown eyes, and Javert didn’t think that was doing him any favors.  “If we - 

when 

we reach Karhide, I will not turn you in.  You will remain free, as far as I am concerned.”



Valjean looked stunned.  Had he really thought that Javert would be able to turn him in, after all of this?  For a moment, Valjean said nothing.  Then:  “Javert,” he whispered wonderingly.  



Valjean scooted forward until he was right across from Javert.  Valjean leaned into his personal space, so close, and Javert noticed him glance to his lips, intentions clear.  This was happening, faster than Javert was able to process it.



“May I?” he asked, running his fingers along Javert’s jawline.



For a moment, part of Javert, the old part, rebelled.  He must say no, he must deny wanting this, must jerk his head away from Valjean and reclaim his dignity -



“Yes,” Javert said.  



Then Valjean’s lips were on his, gentle and hesitant.  He gave Javert the barest peck, but was back for more before Javert had time to register his disappointment.  Valjean began to move his lips, slow at first, then becoming more forceful, pressing kisses to Javert. The hair from Valjean’s beard added to the sensation.  Valjean put his hands on Javert’s thighs for balance as he leaned in closer, practically in Javert’s lap.  Javert wanted more.  He sucked Valjean’s lower lip into his mouth, growing more excited as Valjean’s breath grew heavier.  Javert bit down, eliciting a loud gasp from Valjean.



“Too much?” he growled into Valjean’s throat, leaning forward.



“No,” said Valjean, voice no more steady than Javert’s.  “Please.”  



They both got up, in unspoken agreement, scrambling onto their knees where they would have better access to one another.  They kissed again, teeth clinking together in their eagerness.  Javert opened his mouth to Valjean, who hesitated only a minute before taking advantage.  He teased at Javert gently with his tongue.  Javert tangled his hands into Valjean’s scruffy curls, holding him in tightly.  Their bodies pressed against one another, at first almost accidentally, then sensually.  Valjean kissed clumsily, but Javert supposed that he did, too, and Valjean gained confidence as he went.  It was unclear where their noses should go, and it was awkward, and wet, and it was the best thing that had ever happened to Javert.  



The warm weight of Valjean against him - at last - made Javert’s head spin.  Valjean’s hands rested on his shoulders while they kissed, but it was inevitable that they would not stay still for long.  He would want more.  Sure enough, Valjean moved away just enough to bring his hands down Javert’s chest.  They skimmed Javert’s pecs, then came to rest more solidly on his sides.



Javert was bitter in victory.  He let Valjean’s hands roam down his sides, rubbing and stroking, and come to rest hard on his hips.  Valjean had once again closed the space between them.



“You -” Javert breathed in between kisses.  “I haven’t - Valjean, listen to me.  I’m talking to you.”  



Valjean released him and moved slightly back, flushed and no doubt reluctant.



“I’ve never done this,” said Javert.



“And you think that I have?”






“I know what you convicts would get up to.”



“Perhaps some, perhaps even many,” said Valjean, looking almost shy.  “But I never did, and I was never forced, thank God.”



He looked wonderingly at Valjean.  Could he believe him about this?  A man like Valjean?  A voice in the back of his head taunted him, asking him when he had ever been right about Valjean.  Some reckless part of him continued.



“Women, then?”  Javert did not especially care for the idea of Valjean wishing he was a woman during sex.  



“No women.”  Valjean was blushing unmistakably by now.  “You?”



“No.”  They both laughed a little, more nervous than in good humor.  In that moment, Javert supposed he had never felt closer to another human being in his adult life.  



The spell that had taken over the both of them earlier had been broken, however.  Javert felt that if they were to go back to kissing, it would be as if they were meeting again as aliens, having discarded this new understanding, this new phase of the fragile truce between them. Valjean smiled at him almost sadly, seeming to understand everything that Javert felt and more.  



“We’ve had a long day, after all,” said Javert for lack of something better to say.  



“Yes.”  Valjean seemed relieved.  



They both got ready for bed as if nothing different had happened that night.  Javert was in perhaps the oddest mood of his life.  Every nerve in his body hummed with eagerness to be touched by Valjean again, and at the same time he dreaded it.



Valjean slept in his shirt that night, the thick wool covering the muscles that haunted Javert’s dreams.  Javert wondered, not for the first time, but more fervently than ever, what it would be like to fall asleep in those arms.  As his eyes adjusted to the dark of the tent, he could just barely make out the outline of Valjean, sleeping just out of his reach.  



The next morning, they were overly formal with one another.  Valjean caught Javert looking at him several times, but that was hardly new.  Javert’s staring was notorious.  



The previous night occupied Valjean’s mind completely as they packed up the camp.  His own actions had surprised him nearly as much as they seemed to have surprised Javert.  He had been aware, of course, that he wished to kiss Javert, but he had certainly made no solid plan to act on it.  But when Javert had spoken about his freedom, it had quite overwhelmed Valjean.  



Several moments of bliss followed, and then he had seen a trace of panic in Javert’s eyes, and he knew they needed to pull back.  As for himself, it was all strange, but he found himself wanting to ride this current wherever it took him.  



He had thought about it more after they had lain down in their separate sleeping bags for the night.  Surely it was a crime to take from one’s fellow man, whether it was sexually or in terms of property (and regardless of what Javert might have thought, Valjean did feel quite guilty about his recent theft of the food).  But surely God would not condemn the giving of a gift from one man to another.  And Valjean felt sure that what had passed between him and Javert earlier that evening had been a gift, freely given and received.  He felt connected to Javert in a way he never had before, not even after Javert had saved his life after the avalanche.  This connection of the soul could not be wrong.  Valjean would go farther, with a clean conscience, if it seemed like a gift Javert would accept.  



Their travels that day were more of the same.  Both men were deeply absorbed in their own thoughts.  Valjean was still thinking about last night, if thinking was the right word.  Fantasizing, perhaps.  Valjean didn’t ask, but he suspected Javert was thinking of the same thing, but what tone his thoughts took, he couldn’t tell.  Javert pulled the sledge ahead with his characteristic slight frown.  



They made good time that day, traveling nearly 15 miles northeast of where they had started.  They managed to avoid all of the major crevasses on their route this time, and skied along uneventfully.  



“Let me make dinner,” Valjean said in the evening.  He did, Javert watching him like a hawk the entire time.  



After they cleaned and put away the pot and dishes, there was an awkward silence that they didn’t know how to fill.  



“Do you want to talk about -” asked Valjean.



“No,” Javert said decisively.



Valjean laughed - he hadn’t been sure what Javert was going to say, but he wasn’t expecting that.  



Javert moved over to where Valjean sat.  Later, they couldn’t say who had leaned in first, but one, or both, did, and they were soon kissing again.  At first they were tentative again.  Already more skillful than they had been at the start of last night, their kisses soon became demanding.  Javert wrapped his arms around Valjean’s shoulders.  



Both kneeling, Javert was still the taller of the two by far and Valjean was tilting up to reach him.  Valjean took advantage of their height difference to kiss Javert’s throat.  He could not get over the sounds Javert was making, soft moans that sounded like nothing he would have expected from the man.  Valjean moved to the stubble of Javert’s jawline.  He nipped gently, and Javert gasped.  



Valjean wanted to touch, more and more, but he did not want to startle Javert or take too much. Javert’s hair, which was growing out messily, without guidance from a barber, was too great of a temptation though.  Valjean ran his fingers through it, from his temples to the nape of his neck.  Javert turned his head slightly into the touch, then turned more.  Impulsively, he opened his mouth and eased Valjean’s finger in with his tongue.  



“Ahh, Javert,” Valjean breathed, but he made no move to extract his bare ring finger.  



Javert sucked at the finger, then let his tongue explore the underside of it to the pad of the fingertip.  Valjean watched, mouth open slightly, as if in a trance.  He felt his body responding to the sensations, and the sight of Javert doing it.  Valjean had never suspected this … exhibitionist streak to be a part of Javert, but he didn’t know what else to call it.  Javert finished by kissing the palm of his hand.  



Valjean pushed Javert back to his own sleeping bag, kissing him for each step he took backwards.  He wanted this badly.  They came to a stop, deepening the kiss.  He put his hands on Javert’s hips, as he had last night, but this time Javert didn’t hesitate.  Valjean looked deep into Javert’s eyes and what he saw there reassured him.  



Javert moaned into his mouth as Valjean slid his hands down further and grabbed his ass.  Valjean took his time, cupping his cheeks and squeezing the muscle.  Javert lost control with a gasp, and ground against Valjean.  Valjean was pleased.  The raw desire which had taken over Javert fascinated him, and he wanted to see more of it.  He wanted to feel that passion directed at him.  They pressed against one another again, and Valjean could feel that Javert was as hard as he was. He should be embarrassed, he supposed, but he couldn’t make himself feel particularly embarrassed when Javert was within reach and so willing.  



He had to move away if he were going to take his clothes off, and although he thought that wouldn’t be strictly necessary at this rate, they had few changes of clothing.  And beyond the practical, he wanted to see Javert bared to him.  Valjean pulled off his shirt, throwing it to the side and silently hoping that Javert would follow suit.  He did.  Javert was all lean muscle sprinkled with hair, and Valjean found his eyes drawn to the stripe of black hair making its way into his pants.  



Javert too was staring, even more blatantly than usual.  



“My God, Valjean,” he said.  



“You’ve seen me before,” said Valjean, taken a bit aback.  He hardly thought that he was worth looking at, all burly and scarred, let alone with the intensity he saw on Javert’s face.



“Not like this I haven’t,” insisted Javert.



“Hmm?”  



“Not when you are giving yourself to me to look at.  You are beautiful.  I’ve never seen such a fine looking man.  Everything about you is -” Javert made a gesture at Valjean as if to encapsulate everything he was seeing.



Valjean felt flushed.  He had not realized that there would be quite so much looking involved in this.  He didn’t know how to process any of what Javert was saying - it did not fit in with his image of himself.



“You don’t have to limit yourself to looking,” Valjean said, and it felt unbearably bold. But surely it would be easier to bear Javert’s touch than to hear that he thought he was beautiful.  



Javert came forward, running his hands over Valjean’s body.  Valjean stifled a ticklish giggle when Javert skimmed his flank, but soon Javert was pressing in harder.  Not content with looking, Javert seemed to feel the need to take in every inch of Valjean’s body with his hands, too.  Valjean found that he especially liked to have his pecs touched.  Javert, observant as ever, picked up on this and was soon concentrating his attention on Valjean’s nipples.  He could not stifle a series of gasps as Javert learned what he liked. As they both learned what he liked.  



Wanting to draw the attention off of himself, Valjean skimmed the outline of Javert’s cock through his pants.  Javert pushed into his hand slightly, as if he were trying to maintain some self-control.  



“Pants off, too,” commanded Valjean.



“Be careful, or I might think you are taking charge,” said Javert in a teasing tone.  He had rested his hands on the stays of his pants.



“You’ve never complained before.”  Javert looked away, almost as if he were startled or embarrassed by Valjean’s small joke.  Valjean would have to file that information away for later.



Javert showed no inclination to disobey, however.  It took a bit of awkward shuffling to remove their pants in the low tent, but they were relatively used to it by now.  Only the pressure of one another’s gaze was new.  



They resumed their kissing, fully naked now except for their socks, which they had kept on in a sort of tacit agreement.  A concession to the cold.  



Javert made his way back to Valjean, and embraced him, moving his hips against Valjean’s.  Their cocks touched as they pressed together from torso to knee.  Valjean kissed Javert while they cautiously ground against one another.  There was a sense of holding back; of discovering what was permitted to them.  



“How do you want it?” asked Javert into his ear.  His breath was hot in the otherwise cold air.  “I’ll do anything for you.”



The offer, when spoken in warm, soft words against his earlobe, was startling and more than Valjean was prepared to answer.  “Stay with me?  Like this, for now?” He put his arms around Javert, hands at the small of his back.  He wanted this, but he wanted it to be intimate, connected.  



Remembering how Javert had reacted earlier, he pulled Javert’s ass until the man’s whole body rolled against him. 



“Aah - so strong,” gasped Javert, his eyes now closed.  



Valjean felt Javert go nearly limp in his arms, and he guessed what he wanted.  He took control, gently manhandling Javert and lowering him to the sleeping bag.  The surface of it was far warmer than the cold of the tent’s floor, but Javert shivered from the sudden loss of Valjean’s body heat.  Valjean laid down beside him, pulling him in so that they both lay on their sides, facing one another.  Javert accepted all this repositioning with a gentle hum of pleasure, then resumed grinding against Valjean.  



Now their cocks were trapped in between their bodies, and thrumming with pleasure with every movement that either of them made.  It was a simple and sensual act, but it threatened to overwhelm them both.  They kissed and touched each other as they went, continuing to explore one another’s bodies with hands and mouths and as much skin as they could manage.  Their feet intertwined.  Valjean slipped his lower hand under Javert’s head, and used his upper hand to once again grab Javert’s ass.  



Javert’s moans were intoxicating to him.  Valjean rarely drank, but he knew that this was finer than any wine and that he could lose himself in it.  He pulled back, willing this to last longer.  Javert matched his pace.  



Javert had found a spot on Valjean’s throat, right below his chin, that made him squirm, and applied himself to it now.  It would have served to make him weak in the knees if he were standing up.  Valjean had never suspected such a thing of himself, but then again he was learning much about his body that he hadn’t suspected before.  



Their cocks were rubbing, sliding together, and against the soft skin of their bellies.  They began to grow wet with precome.  The movement became slicker and easier, and what discomfort there was from the friction disappeared.  Now they simply moved together, enjoying one another’s bodies and what they were building together.  



Then Javert reached in and took both of their members in one of his large hands.  He held them together while he worked.  The intensity was much greater now - Javert must have been growing impatient.  The sight of him touching them both, and the thought of Javert being so overcome with desire was nearly too much for Valjean.



Valjean felt the pleasure growing in his body, to greater and greater heights.  He wanted to fall, wanted to see if Javert would catch him.  If he could truly trust Javert in the particular way he was beginning to.  Javert, who had rescued him after the avalanche, and pulled him from the ice crevasse.  Javert, who promised to let him go free.  Yes, Javert would be here for him now.  



He let himself go - there was no one to hear out on the ice anyway.  Valjean came with a yell and a spurt of fluid over Javert’s hand.  He was immediately embarrassed, but Javert seemed intensely aroused.  “Yes,” he moaned and picked up the speed on his own cock.  Soon Javert followed him into ecstasy.  He met Valjean’s eyes, looking softer than Valjean had ever seen him.  Here, laying spent in the soft light of the Chabe stove, he was transfigured into something gentle.  But the illusion was short-lived.  



“Now do you want to talk?” asked Javert, smiling toothily.



“Mmm,” Valjean replied noncommittally.  He couldn’t think of anything to say that would encapsulate everything he was feeling.  He was a bit of a wreck - joy, disbelief, wonder, concern, and fear that they had somehow ruined everything between them.  He pulled Javert in tighter, heedless of the mess between them, and buried his face against Javert’s neck.  His sweat was already beginning to cool.  If Javert’s ardor had cooled as well…



Valjean felt a pang, almost a pain of loss, when Javert got up to get a cloth to clean them up.  They warmed some of their water and bathed together, sneaking glances at one another.  



After drying quickly in the cold air, they lay back down together.  Soon, however, Javert was shivering violently, but trying to suppress the small movements.  Valjean thought about adjusting the dial on the stove even further up, but it really wouldn’t do to burn any more fuel than they had to, even on a special occasion.  



“Come, we need to get to sleep,” Valjean said, hoping to spare Javert’s dignity.



“I suppose you are right.”



“Here,” said Valjean, grabbing Javert’s sleeping bag and handing it to him.  There was not nearly enough room in the tight warm sleeping bags for two men.  But he hoped - 



Javert arranged his sleeping bag next to Valjean’s, put on a warm shirt, and climbed in.  Pleased, Valjean got inside his own sleeping bag and wrapped his arm around Javert in his bag.  After a brief moment of internal struggle about where to put the other arm, he settled down.  Valjean squeezed Javert to himself tightly.  



“How am I supposed to sleep with you grabbing onto me like this?” asked Javert in an affectionate tone that belied his words.



“Hmm.  How have I ever slept without you?” asked Valjean, squeezing Javert harder against himself.  The pleasure of holding Javert now was of a different sort, but no lesser than the sexual pleasure he had experienced earlier.



Javert huffed, or maybe the air was simply driven from his lungs.  



How had he lived without this?  Valjean wondered as he fell asleep, at peace with Javert and the entire world.  He was usually a terribly light sleeper, but that night he slept well and deeply.  



***



In the morning, Javert was tempted to see if Valjean was willing to go for another round of sex, but he knew that they had better get going.  They still had a lot of distance to cover, and their survival depended on making good time and not running out of food.  They had to make good use of what strength and daylight they had.  Still, it was a shame, Javert reflected.



As they folded up the tent and secured it on top of the rest of their gear on the sledge, Javert thought about how things might be if everything was different.  They could have done this in a proper bed, spent the whole day together, doing nothing except learning each other’s bodies.  They would be warm and safe and able to fully focus on one another.  In another reality, this could be theirs.  But in that reality, they would never have done this at all.  Javert would have turned Valjean over to the authorities without a second thought, and that would be it for them.  There would be no time or place for the two of them to discover what they could have been together.  So instead there was this, on the floor of a tent in the wilderness, alone and on the run, everything stripped bare and nothing to protect and shield them in their roles.  Javert supposed he was happy for it - all of it.



Javert was taking his turn pulling the sledge. They found that it was safer on this initial crevassed section of the ice to have one person go ahead and call out the presence of any major crevasses.  The kinetic energy of a single man scouting ahead was far less than that of two men using all their strength to pull a sledge, and stopping and rerouting became far easier.  Besides, the slick surface made it easier for one person to do the hauling on his own.  Javert now watched Valjean up ahead of him, scouting out the next steps with a pole in hand.  He thought of all the time he had spent pursuing Valjean, now to follow behind him contentedly, matching one another’s pace.



The snow was smooth and the going relatively easy today, and Javert became lost in reflection.  His mother had been a fortune-teller - Javert had never put much faith in her trade since he was a child.  He did not think of her often, but now he remembered something that she would tell him:  that there was nothing more useless than knowing the answer to the wrong question.  



He had wondered, coming to Orgoreyn, if he would catch up to Valjean; have the opportunity to arrest him at last.  Had he known the answer would be an unmitigated “yes”, it would have told him nothing.  He could never have known how he would feel now about the man in front of him.  He would never have guessed that he would one day have Valjean in his power, and want him to be free.  To feel that it was only just that he remain free.  To feel … he didn’t know.  Javert didn’t think of himself as an emotional man, and he was becoming overwhelmed with what he was feeling over the last few days.  



It would have been easier, he thought, to have been back in his daily routine in Montreuil where the pressures of his work would have prevented him from dwelling too much on painful new thoughts.  But on the other hand, he would have likely never opened himself up to this new experience had he remained in his old life.  And Javert was still conflicted; he was in pain; but he would not have given up the past two nights with Valjean for anything.



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



That night there was a certain anticipation in the air as Valjean and Javert began to set up camp.  Gone was their usual weariness that came at the end of a long, hard day.  Now they looked to one another with glances which failed to be secretive, as they wondered what would happen that night.  



Javert once again wondered whether Valjean would be tempted to repeat what they had done. Perhaps he would have gotten it out of his system already, and wanted nothing more to do with Javert.  Perhaps he had been trying to prove something to himself, making a whore of his former jailer, and would rest now that it had been accomplished.  Or perhaps he simply hadn’t liked it.  After all, if the man was to be believed, he had never done such a thing before.  Perhaps he was adverse to such acts.  It had seemed at the time that Valjean liked it, though, thought Javert with the pleasure of memory.



“How are you feeling?” asked Valjean.  Javert realized he was daydreaming, and must have looked distant.



“Oh, hmm.  Well, I’m a man stuck on a hopeless journey across a desolate glacier, but I did have a good time last night, so I would say it’s a mixed bag.”  If Javert were to tell the full truth, his spirits were higher than they had been in quite a long time, especially in anticipation of what might be coming.  



Valjean chuckled.  “Let me rub your shoulders.”



Javert raised his eyebrows.  This sounded promising.  He doubted that Valjean truly intended to stop at rubbing his shoulders.  And while he was being honest, they were sore, along with the rest of him.  Even just the massage sounded appealing enough, and visions of how this could play out danced in Javert’s head.



“All right,” he said, turning his back to Valjean.



“I was thinking that you might … take your shirt off,” said Valjean uncertainly.  



If that’s what he wanted, there was no need to tell Javert twice.  He stripped off his shirt, once again turning away from Valjean.  



“Thank you,” said Valjean, as though Javert had been the one doing him a favor.  He placed his hands on Javert’s shoulders, and squeezed along the tops of them.  Javert embarrassed himself with a series of pleased grunts already.  Valjean’s legendary strength apparently was found in his hands as well, and his touch was so intense that it was a hair's width away from being painful.  Valjean moved to Javert’s neck, pinching at either side of it, and Javert was no longer amazed to find that he trusted Valjean completely around his throat.  



“So tight here,” Valjean commented as he worked away at Javert’s neck.  




Javert could feel the pressure releasing as Valjean moved up and down his back with strong strokes, then settled into his shoulder blades.  He allowed himself a small moan as Valjean found a tight, painful spot.  Valjean took the hint and lavished extra attention on that spot.



Javert had never been touched like this before, and while he had originally agreed to humor Valjean, and to get those hands on him, he found that he loved every strong stroke of Valjean’s hands, from the light circling fingertips to the slow grinding heel.  



“Lie down, Javert.”  Javert did without hesitation.  He was embarrassed by how eager he was to follow Valjean’s instructions.  Here, Valjean had better leverage when massaging him.  Here, he couldn’t help but feel the slight teasing rub of the sleeping bag against his cock as Valjean pushed him into the ground.  



“Better?” Valjean asked finally. 



Javert answered by getting up, turning around in Valjean’s arms, and kissing him. He carded a hand through the beard which was growing scruffier during their journey, holding Valjean in place while he continued to kiss him thoroughly.  Valjean responded in kind, opening his mouth for Javert and allowing in his inquisitive tongue.



Javert felt much more relaxed than he had the previous night, the combined result of experience and Valjean’s ministrations, no doubt.  He was taking the lead now, although he found himself wondering how that had happened and wishing that Valjean would take control.  He knew what he wanted.  Back when Valjean had been nothing to him but a forbidden fantasy, Javert had known what he wanted.  Now that he felt this deep connection to Valjean, he didn’t want it any less.  If anything, his desire was heightened.  



“I want to know what it feels like,” Javert murmured in between kisses.  He was pressed as tightly against Valjean as he could possibly manage.   “I want to feel you inside me.”



Valjean stiffened.  “We don’t have to do that.”



“Jean, please,” Javert whispered into his ear. 



“No, I don’t think we should.”



“You don’t want me like that?”  It was more of a blow to Javert’s ego than he was expecting.



“It’s not that.  Of course I - that is to say.”  Valjean had drawn back, and now he shielded himself, drawing one arm across his chest and resting the other on it, hand partially covering his face.  “I would not hurt you that way for the world.”



“Perhaps I’m not that delicate.”



 “I’ve been around that kind of violence, you know, in Toulon.  I have known men who’ve been badly injured that way.”



Javert didn’t know what to say that could get through Valjean’s defensiveness.  It was no longer about the sex - he wanted to re-establish the connection with Valjean that he felt he had just lost.  And he didn’t want Valjean to think him a brute.  “It doesn’t have to be violence.”



“Even when it’s not violent, there’s a risk involved.”



“I trust you.”



“It’s not a matter of trust; we cannot afford any injury out here.”  By now, Valjean was quite unmistakably blushing.  “We don’t have anything to ease the way.” 



“Your spit will do,” said Javert.



“No it will not,” said Valjean emphatically.



“Hmm, I think it will be fine.”



“Absolutely not.  Were you not listening?”  Javert was surprised by the heat in Valjean’s voice.  



“I was,” said Javert with a sense of genuine guilt.  He had evidently brought up things in Valjean’s past that he wanted to forget.  “And I’m sorry for pushing the issue.  What you must think of me…”



They embraced again, and Javert was thinking about how nice it would be to just fall asleep in Valjean’s arms again, even if Valjean didn’t want anything else.  He hadn’t thought that he would be able to tolerate so much touch, but he had been pleasantly surprised the last night and wanted that again.  He wondered how to ask - he didn’t want to push any further.



“I just don’t understand,” said Valjean quietly. “This is really something you want?  Why?  You don’t need to do it to please me, you know; I was more than happy with what we had last night.”



“I don’t know how to explain it. It’s something that I have long been tempted to try.  I thought I had the self-control to not act on my temptations, but as you see all my self-control evaporates around you.”  Then Javert added softly:  “I thought this would feel more wrong than it does.”



Valjean looked him deep in the eyes.  “As did I.”



Javert leaned in and they kissed again.  To the degree that he had any thoughts remaining, they were about how very right this felt, and how relieved he was that Valjean had forgiven him for pushing in a direction that he wasn’t comfortable taking.  



Valjean pulled back, resting his hand on Javert’s chest.  “...But after all, we could…”  An idea had evidently occurred to Valjean.  “If it’s something that you really want.”



“I said that I do - you have an idea?”



“Yes, the ski wax.  It’s made of paraffin, and will soften very easily.”



Javert grinned his wolf’s smile.  



“I do recall we had a lot of it.”



“I wanted to make sure we were prepared, and it was either that size or a really tiny block at the store,” explained Valjean.  “What do you think?”



“I say let’s give it a try,” said Javert, trying to sound nonchalant.  In reality, he had never wanted anything more.



They had left the paraffin out on the sledge, since they primarily used it outside in the mornings.  The block was incredibly cold and hard, and Javert had to stop himself from asking if Valjean was sure that they couldn’t just use spit.  Valjean carefully softened the white paraffin in their pan until it was only semisolid, then took it away from the heat.  Javert watched him, excitement growing as he thought of what Valjean intended to do.  When Valjean was done softening the wax, Javert approached him for another kiss.  



“You are so good to me,” Javert whispered into Valjean’s neck.  He wanted every trace of Valjean’s earlier hesitancy gone. 



Valjean sighed, pulling in Javert and once more rubbing his lower back.  Javert could feel the tension leaving Valjean, slowly but surely.  



“Come,” Javert said.  “Lie with me.”  He motioned over to his sleeping bag, and Valjean followed him without a word.  They took off their clothes, Valjean still seeming a bit hesitant.  



“Slow,” Javert said.  He took Valjean’s hand.  “As slow as you like.”  Despite his words, he lay down and tugged at Valjean’s wrist gently.  Valjean moved in closer, then lay down next to Javert.  He ran a slow hand down Javert’s side, ending on his hip, earning a pleased smile.  He propped himself up on one arm, gazing down at Javert.  Javert hated to think of what Valjean saw when he looked at him.  He was not beautiful the way Valjean was, all solid muscle and handsome face.  Nor did he have the boyish charm that he knew some men preferred.  He was just an old police inspector bearing the marks of a rough life.



Valjean pushed himself back up, and straddled Javert, lowering himself down to kiss him.  Javert rushed up to meet him, delighted to see Valjean take action.  Valjean tugged at Javert’s hair, tilting his throat so that he would have better access.  Javert gasped as soon as Valjean’s lips and tongue found their way to his throat and set to work.  His hands remained fisted in Javert’s hair, forearms bracketing his head.  Javert loved the feeling of containment almost as much as the pleasure of what Valjean was actually doing.  He rolled his hips, brushing their cocks together.  



Valjean pushed himself back up, and moved back to his previous position beside Javert.  He touched Javert’s chest, beginning to massage him again.  Javert fought back impatience - he would let Valjean take as long as he needed.   But he breathed a sigh of relief when he saw Valjean roll partially over and reach for the wax.  



But to Javert’s surprise, Valjean did not place the soft wax on his own cock.  He instead reached for Javert, stroking the cleft in his ass and working a finger inside.  



“What -” Javert started.



“I’ve never done this, true, but I know how.  Trust me,” said Valjean softly.  



And Javert did trust Valjean.  He held still while Valjean worked him open, finding that he enjoyed the process more and more as it went.  Soon Valjean slipped in another slick finger, and the pleasure was increased proportionately.  In and out, Valjean moved his fingers until they were joined by a third one.  Javert found himself starting to moan as Valjean worked. 



As much as he was enjoying himself, though, this was not what he had wanted.  Desire was building up in stronger and stronger waves, until he thought he would -



“Are you ready?” Valjean asked gently.  



“Yes,” grunted Javert, who could barely trust himself to speak at this point.  He spread his legs, with only a trace of self-consciousness.  Valjean finally rubbed the soft, soft wax onto his own hardness, and settled himself down between Javert’s legs.  He entered Javert slowly.  



The stretch was uncomfortable at first, and Javert took a moment to be grateful to Valjean for taking the time to prepare him first.  But he relaxed around Valjean’s cock, and soon savored the sensation of having Valjean inside him.  He looped his arms around Valjean’s shoulders.  Valjean turned to kiss his arm absentmindedly, then focused and kissed Javert’s lips.  



“It’s so hard to stay still,” murmured Valjean into Javert’s throat.



“Don’t!”  Javert could be a patient man, when the situation called for it, but he was also a man of action, and he felt he would die if Valjean didn’t take action now.  Javert ground back into Valjean, trying to make his meaning clear.



Valjean gave a small experimental thrust.  Javert groaned and arched into him.  



“Does it hurt?” asked Valjean.  



“No,” answered Javert truthfully.



Finally, Valjean picked up the pace, until he was fucking Javert in earnest.  

Yes, 

though Javert.  This was everything he had wanted.  The pleasure went deep into his body and sent ripples of feeling throughout.  The feeling was deeper, more bass, than what he had experienced the previous night.  Javert felt as though his body were made for this.  It was as if he had been waiting his whole life to find out what this felt like - to find it out with Valjean.  



Yes, he had gotten what he had long wanted.  He remembered with some guilt the lust he had had for the prisoner 24,601.  He had considered it a deeply shameful secret, one he hid even from himself as much as possible.  But even then, in Toulon, he would have liked to have been on his back for him, even when he thought Valjean nothing but a common villain.  What did that make Javert?  Worse than he had thought Valjean to be. 



And now?  Now that he admired Valjean: admired what he had done as Madeleine, what he had subsequently done as Valjean, at his own peril; admired his heart, soul, body - what did that make him now?  



Valjean stopped moving.  “Javert?  Stay with me…”



“Of course - I’m right here, where did you think I was?” Javert growled.



“No idea.”



Javert flung himself back against the ground in mock-exasperation.  Valjean followed, still not providing the movement that Javert so badly wanted.  He once again kissed Javert, then propped himself up to look into his eyes.  Evidently reassured by what he saw there, he started thrusting again.  



Javert tried to stay in the present moment this time.  After all, he wanted to savor this, and he certainly didn’t want to displease Valjean.  



“You feel so good,” breathed Valjean in between thrusts.  



Javert moaned deeply and clutched at Valjean’s back with his long nails.  



Valjean looked faintly surprised.   



“You’re doing so well,” he added.  



Javert’s hands slide down to Valjean’s ass, gripping him hard.  Javert’s tight grip should have slowed Valjean down. But Valjean was too powerful for Javert.  He clearly knew that Javert only wanted to hold on, not to stop him, and continued inexorably on.  



“Just - just like that, Javert.  You are good at this,” Valjean continued.  



Javert’s moan came out almost as a gasp.  “Me?  How do you -”  

How do you know exactly what to say to drive me wild?  

He ground against Valjean hard rather than completing the sentence.  He couldn’t have finished it even had he tried - he was too overwhelmed.  Javert himself had not known that he could respond this way to mere words.  



Things began to come to a head.  Javert could feel the tension building inside him as his toes curled and every muscle in his body began to clench.  There was a spot inside him - he hadn’t known that there was anything so susceptible to pleasure there - that brought him closer every time Valjean rubbed against it.  He was tempted to touch himself, but he wanted to see if he could come just from Valjean’s cock, from the weight of the stronger man holding him down, from the occasional half-teasing shift of motion against his own cock, and from just the presence of the man that he - that he -



“Come for me, Javert.”  The quiet command went straight to Javert’s cock.  “You are taking this so well; you deserve to come now.”



Maybe it was the praise, maybe it was Javert’s comfort with following orders.  Maybe it was his wish to please Valjean.  But with that, Javert came with a howl.  Pleasure flooded his body and overwhelmed his senses.  



“Good,” Valjean said, continuing to fuck him through his orgasm.  He came with a gasp shortly after Javert, and afterwards settled down quietly on Javert’s chest, still inside him and heedless of the sticky fluid between them. 



Javert was swept up in a flood of emotion beyond that which he had ever known.  Everything he had experienced in the last few days, weeks, months, hell - years, churned within him and seemed to be finding release now.  To his mortification, he teared up.  Despite his distress, he was unable to stop the tears, and he was soon crying in earnest, quiet sobs wracking his body.    



Valjean looked up, alarmed.  “What have I done?” he murmured.  “Tell me so I can make it right.  Are you hurt?” 



“No.  And you … haven’t done anything,” said Javert in between tears.  “I’m sorry, I don’t know what is happening.  This isn’t like me.”



“I know.”  Valjean kissed him lightly - a brief peck on the lips, and then buried his face against Javert’s chest while Javert sobbed.  Javert’s mortification made him cry harder:  the last thing that he needed, Javert thought, was to drive Valjean away with this ridiculous show of emotion.  



But Valjean didn’t leave him.  Instead, Valjean hugged him tightly, pressing against him from all sides.  Javert felt unexpectedly protected.  The pain, the loneliness, the little moments of joy he had known - they all came out in a stream of emotion. The heavy weight of Valjean on top of him proved reassuring, and soon Javert’s tears were slowing.  




Recovering, Javert idly ran his fingers through his companion’s hair.  His lover.  The word was apt, for he didn’t think it was just the effects of the sex.  Javert was unfamiliar with all that was going through his heart, but he thought that he did love Valjean.  That Valjean wasn’t scared off by his ridiculous tears only served to solidify the feelings that were floating around inside of him.  He didn’t know how to tell Valjean, or if he should say anything at all. 



After a while, once their heartbeats had returned to normal and Javert’s tears were over, they got up to get cleaned off and get ready for sleep.  



Once they had each settled into their sleeping bags, Javert curled tightly around Valjean.  He couldn’t be close enough.  His heart was completely content.  



“Valjean?”



“Yes?”  



Javert couldn’t do it.  He couldn’t say the words.  Instead, he asked “Are you okay?”  Valjean had given him everything he wanted, and then, after, everything he needed.  He hadn’t thought to protect or comfort Valjean, he realized with shame.  



“Yes.”  



“Just ‘yes’?” asked Javert suspiciously.  



Javert felt Valjean’s sigh as much as heard it.  “Javert, I’m so sorry.  I knew you had never done this, yet I let myself get carried away by my lust.  I ordered you around, and fucked you hard until you cried, like a brute.  I wouldn’t blame you if you thought I was a monster again.”



“I - what?!  You have nothing to apologize for.”



“I do, though.”  Valjean turned around, facing Javert now with a look of concern on his face.



“It wasn’t like that.  I felt - I’ve never felt so - Christ.  I am not good at this, Valjean.”  Javert took a deep breath.  “I felt so protected and …”  Loved. “Anyway, don’t ask me why I cried, please let’s not talk about it.  I don’t understand myself.  It felt safe to ….”  Javert knew that he was making little sense, but he could only hope that Valjean was better at understanding than he was at expressing himself.  “I can only hope that you would want to do that again someday.”



“You would do that again?” Valjean sounded disbelieving.



“If you would,” Javert said, reaching out to stroke Valjean’s cheek.  “You somehow know exactly what to do and say to please me.”  



“Surely not.”  After everything they had done, Valjean still blushed at Javert’s words.



“You do.  If we were younger men, and if I wasn’t so tired from this damned glacier, I’d have you again right now.”  



Valjean kissed him at that, slow and gentle.  Javert curled against him, luxurious and warm, and more grateful for another human being than he had ever been in his life.



***



In the morning, Javert was sore from their activities, but it was not too bad.  It was less than the soreness that he had experienced when they had started their journey, and in addition, he had the pleasant memories to go along with it.  He also felt a curious lightness, as though some of the burden that he hadn’t realized that he had been carrying for so long had been laid down.  



That day marked a shift for them.  Daily travel was still a struggle.  It was tiring and there were times when it felt like they simply could not go on.  But for the most part, their days grew more consistent as they traveled across the ice, and further away from the mountains and volcanoes which had caused the crevasses in the ice sheet.  Hazards were routine ones - the ever present cold which threatened them, for example.  But they were able to set a straightforward route southeast, and pulled hard to make up for the time lost getting up on the ice, and traveling north to steer around the crevasses.  Day after day, they make excellent runs as measured by the meter on their sledge, and the days began to blend into one another.  



Their nights, on the other hand, had become highly interesting to them as they continued to explore one another’s bodies.  The next night, for instance, started in conversation but did not stay that way for long.



“You are quite resourceful,” Javert told Valjean.  “I would not have thought to apply the paraffin wax the way we did the other night.”



“Well, I remembered that once it was warmed up it would have the properties we needed.  And there’s no harm in it.”



“I suppose that I shouldn’t be surprised.  You managed to transform the local imitation-jet manufacturing process in Montreuil, and there you were in Mishnory, attempting to disrupt another manufacturing industry.  It’s clearly a talent you have.”



“I wouldn’t say that.”



“Don’t be modest.  You didn’t have the slightest advantage to your name when you came to Montreuil, except your wits, and you made do well enough.”  



“The Lord provided.”



Javert resisted temptation to snort, then changed the topic.  “Your new resin making method, if it had succeeded.  It would have put quite a few people out of work in Karhide. Miners, merchants and the like. The raw materials for the process that you proposed could be found easily enough in Orgoreyn, and there would be no need for trade with Karhide.  I thought you were always talking about promoting honest work.”



Valjean hesitated.  “I value that very much, but not at the cost of lives.”  



Javert nodded.  This fit in with what he now understood of Valjean.  Despite his skill with his hands and his prodigious business sense, Valjean had much more of the temperament of a man of the cloth than a typical businessman.  He had sought to build community, and build up individual lives, while always remaining an outsider himself.  He would not allow the lives he touched to touch him.  The contradictions in Valjean once more stood out to Javert, but they were now contradictions that he valued, or at least tolerated.  



And once again, Javert was struck by the apparently genuine concern that Valjean had shown for the responsibilities given to him by the king, and the people under his authority.  It occurred to him that Valjean was not the only one who had suffered as a result of the loss of his position, and Javert wondered how the town was doing now, under the guidance of its new mayor.  When Javert had left, the local magistrates had recommended to the king one Monsieur Beaumont, a man from a local family with a long history of money.  Javert rather doubted that the man had Valjean’s abilities, or interest in the welfare of the surrounding community.



“I’m sorry about your career as mayor,” he said.  “I was unjustly harsh with you due to my suspicions at the time, but I’ll admit that you were always a good mayor for the town.”



Valjean sighed.  “That time is over now.  And I am, perhaps, selfishly glad for it. I never wanted to be a public official, and I found that it did not suit me.  I am not made for ceremony.  I appreciated the chance to do what good that I could for the town and its inhabitants, but that leads to its own set of problems. How am I to know what will result in the best outcomes?  It’s a lot of pressure, and with the people of the town relying on me, I did not feel that I could step away.  In the end, perhaps everything worked out for the best.”



Javert listened to this short speech with disbelief.  He certainly thought of Valjean as a natural leader.  “You are glad that you are in exile, on an uninhabitable ice-sheet, and facing the risk of arrest if you survive?”



“Hmm.  I have you, don’t I?”



“Foolish,” said Javert with delight that he tried not to show.  “Now that you have me, what do you want to do to me?”



“I don’t want to do anything you don’t want.”



“You don’t have to be so sincere all the time.”  



“You like me sincere.”



“I do.  And 

I

 now very sincerely wish to suck your cock, if you will allow it.”



Valjean laughed, but whether it was with embarrassment or in response to Javert’s teasing, it was hard to say.  



“Let me show you how serious I’m being,” Javert continued, in a show of bravado.  He moved over to where Valjean sat, and pushed him into a lying position.  Javert tugged at Valjean’s trousers, the heavy fabric coming off slowly.  He kissed Valjean thoroughly before he worked up the nerve to really put his mouth to work.  


Ya’ll I went into a deep dive to figure out what they could possibly use for lube here. You’re welcome, Javert. Anyway, none of this is advice and definitely don’t ever use modern ski wax for anything on your body - that stuff is toxic. The things you learn writing fanfics, am I right?


They slipped into a routine as they made their way across the Gobrin Ice.  Each day they woke up, made a small breakfast, and shivered as they dressed warmly for the day.  They broke down camp adeptly, packing everything they had used the previous night onto the sledge.  When it was snowing, they took care not to get the insides of the tent or any of the rest of their gear wet.  Occasionally they would wax the skis and the rails of the sledge before starting off.  Although it was tedious, taking proper care of their gear could mean the difference between life and death.  What would have been a rather routine task had taken on a bit of an obscene air ever since Valjean had come up with another use for the paraffin wax, but Valjean never noticed Javert’s blushing under the cloth masks they used to protect their faces from the subzero weather.  Neither of them was in the habit of discussing what they did together when they were not actively having sex, and neither commented on the paraffin.  



Then they would get moving.  It was always cold; so cold.  They did not know how deep down the ice sheet went, although they had discussed it in detail one day when nothing else had presented itself to their attention, but at the surface it was always bitterly cold.  It insulated the whole area with a chill that never let up.  Although there were not what you could call warm days, there were especially cold days when the wind chill blowing in from the pole became almost unbearable.  Most days, the rest of their bodies would eventually warm up from the vigorous movement, but their faces seemed to never be warm.  The makeshift masks that they wore were simply not enough against the windchill. 



They pressed on hard for each day’s travel.  In midday, they would stop for a small bit of tack, chewing at it very slowly in order to both soften it and make it last.  Then it was back to work hauling the sledge across the endless ice.  Typically in this terrain both Valjean and Javert pulled side by side.  Rarely did a word pass between them, but Javert enjoyed the companionship anyway, and he liked to think that Valjean felt the same way.  Valjean was the only other solid thing in the entire landscape.  It was a relief to have him close, and not just because of their newfound romantic attachment.  



Towards the evening, the light often got flat, further removing any contours from that already featureless landscape.  Valjean thought that it was something to do with the angle at which the light was reflected from the sky, but all Javert knew for sure was that he didn’t like it.  But it could get worse.  At times, the weather was such that there was a complete whiteout as snow or fog settled in over the great ice sheet.  Nothing could be seen, nothing was distinct in the snow.  At times, even the sledge disappeared from view; at times, even Valjean. 



This whiteout weather nearly panicked Javert.  He hated losing all of his bearing like this.  He felt absolutely helpless and without the use of his senses, for generally his hearing was muffled as well. What’s worse, it reminded him in some way of the moral crisis he had earlier, when all the certainty and direction in his life had been stripped away.  If there was no heavy snow, they tried to still travel onwards under these conditions, but navigation was difficult.  One man would frequently check the compass on the sledge, but then it was hard for him to direct the other under whiteout conditions.  



The surface underfoot varied.  Rough sastrugi, shaped by the prevailing winds, were almost like ocean waves.  When present, they were sometimes high enough to slow the two skiers down.  Despite this, and despite the risk they posed to their equipment, Javert found them somewhat reassuring at first.  They were laid down by the wind in an order so precise that they could be used to aid navigation, nearly as reliably as the stars.  The landscape made more intuitive sense when they were there.  



***



It was inevitable that their luck would turn.  The weather did not hold, and one day, their twenty-eighth since attaining the Gobrin Ice, a blizzard blew up and they were quite snowed in.  Under these conditions, there was nothing that could be done - they could not see in front of their own faces to travel, even if it had been safe with the biting wind.  



They stayed in their tent, sleeping much of the day to recover their strength as much as was possible.  They only allowed themselves half rations under these circumstances, since there was little enough exertion and absolutely no forward movement.  



Little exertion, but not none.  Even if it were under trying circumstances, they had absolute leisure together, and so made love often.  They experimented as much as their energy allowed, each trying to please the other and attempting to make up for a lifetime of inexperience.  



On the second day of this, Javert lowered himself onto Valjean’s chest after having ridden him hard, to their mutual satisfaction.  With Javert in control of the pace, he could really push on harder than Valjean was willing to.  



“Valjean?”  



“‘Jean’, please - there’s no need to stand on ceremony after you…”



“Jean, then.”



“Yes?”



“Were you aware that I love you?” he asked, avoiding Valjean’s eyes. 



“Oh.”  Valjean seemed astonished.



“It’s not important,” Javert backpedaled quickly.  “Nothing has to change, I don’t know what’s come over me that I -”



“I love you too.  I think I have for a while now,” said Valjean softly.



Javert snapped back to attention and looked into Valjean’s eyes.  They seemed especially dark and soft, and Javert wanted to lose himself in them.  Perhaps he already had.  (He was aware that Valjean seemed to bring out the sentimental side that he hadn’t known he had, but he didn’t seem to be able to stop it.)



Perhaps what they were feeling was real, and not just a product of their extraordinary circumstances.  For the first time, Javert let himself daydream about the possibility of a future together with Valjean, after the Ice.  What would that look like?  How could they manage such a thing, once they stopped being a tiny social unit on the ice, and rejoined conventional human society?  It was one thing for Valjean to agree to become his lover under these circumstances, when no one could possibly know or care.  But this could not last.  Either they would reach Karhide, or they would die trying.  This time in their life, as joyous as it was, was destined to be a brief interlude.  But perhaps it would be possible to carve out a life of some sort together.  After all, Valjean and Javert were both loners in their own ways.  Perhaps, even if shunned by society, what they gained might be greater than what they lost.  Javert had no doubt that for himself, this would be true, as long as he had Valjean by his side.



“I think I loved you even before I ever touched you,” continued Valjean.  



Javert kissed him deeply.  That was no reason to stop touching him now.  He propped himself up and ran his hands over Valjean’s ample muscles.  He thought with pleasure of taking a nap resting against Valjean (for in their current state of exhaustion, neither of them felt like they ever got enough sleep), and perhaps going down on him afterwards.  Afterwards:  that was the specter that they were racing towards, and which could easily tear them apart.  



“What do you think you will do when we make it back to Karhide?” asked Javert here and now, from on top of Valjean.  



Valjean took a deep breath, and looked thoughtful.  For a moment, Javert wondered if the question had pained him.  It was a sign of this newfound love, he supposed, that he found himself worrying whether something as simple as a question might hurt Valjean.  If this were a sign of weakness, though, then he was weak.



“I will not be able to live openly, at least not anywhere near Montreuil.  Even though you have chosen not to turn me in, there are your superiors to think about.  You said they had been notified about my whereabouts?”



“Yes.  You could go back to Orgoryen, and continue your work there.” Javert’s heart gave a sudden pang at the idea of being separated so far from Valjean.  



“No, that’s out of the question.  I will of course be wanted there as well, for aiding in your escape.  The Sarf have ears everywhere - they will know that it was me.”



“Then come with me to Paris.  I will need to report to Chabouillet, and you will be able to fade into the crowd there.”  Javert could not exactly picture any type of crowd which Valjean would be able to fade into, but he supposed that this was close enough to the truth.  He found that he couldn’t yet tell Valjean how much he hoped to continue seeing him after their return to Karhide. But surely, if Valjean was telling the truth when he said that he loved Javert, surely he would also want for them to remain together.  Maybe this could go unspoken between them. 



And yet as he sat there with Valjean, contemplating the future both out loud and privately, he could scarcely see the point in surviving to return to Karhide, if it were only to give Valjean up.  Duty, he reminded himself.  Duty was why he had set out on this mission in the first place, and it was why he would complete it.  The fact that he had made the decision to neglect one very specific part of his duty in no way changed the rest of it.



“I may,” said Valjean at last.  “I would like to find a way to continue my studies on resins, and Paris might be the ideal location for it.  I would have to import the materials, of course, but that should be possible with the right suppliers.”



“Consider it, at least.”  The prospect of being able to keep Valjean with him after they returned to Karhide was all that Javert wanted.  He was already unsure of how he could bear to be separated from him.  Wanting to enjoy at least what time they had together, he rolled off of Valjean, and curled sideways against him to sleep for as long as he could manage.  The last thing he remembered was a large, rough hand coming to rest on the front of his shoulder, pinning him comfortably in place.



***



As the days passed like this, Valjean and Javert began to have another, new difficulty.  Valjean had calculated that they had enough food for 77 days, but he was no longer thinking that they would be able to complete the journey in that time.  Their time spent trying to get onto the ice sheet itself and resting during inclement weather added up to less travel time, plus they had made slower time than Valjean had expected at the beginning of the trip across the ice, often picking their way carefully north due to the crevassed terrain rather than making good time to the east.  



They began to eat less in order to compensate, which was a considerable hardship for men of their size traveling as hard as they were.  In the evenings, they rarely had enough energy left over to make love.  But they always slept together, wrapped in one another’s arms.  That comfort would remain, even to the end, even if nothing else did.  



***



At long last, Valjean and Javert caught sight of the red hills which marked the edge of the ice sheet.  Javert spotted them first, as the morning began to clear, and gave a whoop of delight.  He clapped Valjean on the shoulder, pointing them out with boyish joy.  They had nearly made it.



The final few miles of the glacier were rough traveling - the ice distorted and cracked as it had at the start of the ice-sheet, and the way proved treacherous.  It was hard for them to slow down with what felt like the end so close in sight, but there was no point in taking any foolish risks.  When they reached the hills, it was the first bit of real terrain they had encountered in weeks.  Their exhaustion brought itself to their attention as they pulled together up and down the hills, right to the steep dropoff at the edge of the ice-sheet.  At the end of their world.  



They looked out onto the vast expanse of the Guthen Bay sea ice, frozen over this time of year but forming a great navigable bay during the warmer months.  For now, it would hold their weight easily, and they were planning to traverse it straight across to Karhide.  



Carefully lowering themselves and their gear to the sea ice, Valjean was surprised to feel a pang for what he was leaving behind him.  It was true that the going was hard and dangerous.  They certainly could not continue much longer with the way they were running out of food. It was bitterly cold, all the time; so cold that it caused pain.  



But in another way, a deeper way, Valjean had never been so happy in his life as he had been on the Gobrin Ice.  His soul felt whole, healed by his newfound love for Javert.  He had not known that he could feel romantic love like this, but here he was under the most unlikely of circumstances.  He hoped that Javert was sincere in his wish to remain…close after they reached civilization again.  Valjean felt that his heart would break if asked to part from him. 



There was something disconcerting about setting up camp that night in the middle of the frozen bay.  It added to the slight feeling of unreality that had taken hold of Valjean.  The awareness of where they were hovered around them.  Here they were, alive after their journey across the Gobrin Ice, and together.  Their surprise at being alive after all this and joy at having nearly reached their goal was contagious, passing back and forth from one to the other and cutting straight through their exhaustion.  They kissed with passion and relief, and soon Valjean had Javert on his hands and knees, one fist tugging at his hair and the other gripping his shoulder.  He drove into Javert hard and fast, and Javert met him thrust for thrust. 



“That’s it,” said Valjean, barely able to think at this point.  “Good.” 



He caressed Javert’s hair one last time before taking his cock in hand and giving him his fist to fuck.  They both moved to the same rhythm, together as they had been on the ice, until Javert shuddered and came.  Valjean savored the sight and feeling of Javert’s orgasm but did not let up.  Hands on Javert’s hips, he pulled him hard against himself.  Javert moaned despite his recent release.  Valjean had a fantasy of Javert coming over and over while he fucked him, of giving him endless pleasure, and the thought brought him over the edge himself.  



Their animalistic sex anchored them firmly back in the land of the living.  They clung to one another over a frozen, suspended sea, and drifted to sleep feeling safer than they had in weeks.



Travel on the bay ice was fast, and Valjean and Javert were pushing hard since they were nearly out of food.  By the end of the next day, they reached the shore, marked by a small fishing town that Valjean didn’t know the name of.  The shore itself was not visible due to the heavy layer of snow, but a gradual incline led the way to a small scattering of buildings, barely visible in the distance.  What boats were there were all in dry dock for the season and out of sight, the larger ships having long since sailed south.  It was a tiny, remote town, built with compact buildings designed to withstand the cold winter air coming off the bay. 



They stopped on the ice, taking in the sight.  The timing was perfect - they had eaten the last of their tack that morning, and they were filled with elation this close to their goal.  They rested for a moment, staring at the unfamiliar sight of a human habitation. 



Javert turned to Valjean.  “We need a story for you; an identity we can give.  I doubt word of your crimes has reached this far north, but we can’t be too careful.”



“I’ll say that you are my brother,” answered Valjean.  Even if what they were doing together wasn’t against the law, he was hesitant to admit exactly what they were to each other.  They had not even put it into words themselves.



“Psh, you don’t look it.”



“I’ll say you are my half-brother.”  He had to admit that Javert had a point.  



“Still you don’t look it,” said Javert with a teasing tone.



“I’ll say you are a good friend.”



“That will do.  LeBlanc, again?”  Valjean nodded his agreement, so Javert continued.  “I imagine that we both look about half-dead.  We’ll say that we got badly lost, caught up in a storm.”  



Valjean nodded again, and changed the subject.  “What are you most looking forward to, when we get back to civilization?”



“Doing my duty and reporting to Chabouillet,” replied Javert immediately.  



“Javert,” said Valjean with just a hint of reproach.  He wanted to hear what Javert really wanted.  



“Fine, a hot bath.”



“Sounds nicer,” said Valjean, picturing his lover at last warm and languid in his nudity, rather than cold and hurried.  “We can arrange that easily enough.  I still have money left over, and this town is sure to have an inn.  We will spend the night there, have a real hot meal and a bath.  Then in the morning we’ll restock with food and then head for Paris.  What do you think?  We can either camp along the way or travel by road, taking passage in the landships and staying in the inns by night.”



Javert appeared to think it over for a minute.  “It makes more sense to stay off the main roads.  We’ve come this far; we shouldn’t risk your arrest when we are so close to safety.  The fewer people who see you up close the better, although I’m not worried right now.  The odds are against anyone recognizing you here.  When we get to Paris, you should be able to completely disappear into the crowd.”



Valjean nodded his assent.  “I can’t wait to have a proper meal with you, at a table.”



“I could care less about the table, but any sort of meal sounds perfect right now.  Something hot,” said Javert.  “And I admit I’m looking forward to a real bed.”



Valjean wondered for a moment what exactly Javert looked forward to doing in that bed, considering his current state of exhaustion.  He hoped that Javert’s expectations were reasonable.  Personally, he longed to hold Javert to himself in a soft bed, where they would have room and warmth to spare. 



“Let’s get going - it’s not much farther,” Valjean said, and they set off across what remained of the sea ice.  



In another half hour or so, they had arrived at what was the shore, in the summer.  



They made their way into town, removing their skis when they reached the roads.  Both were silent, and Valjean wondered if this experience of being in a town seemed as strange to Javert as it did to him. Likely so, he thought - Javert had been in prison before his time on the ice.  Soon, they spotted someone coming towards them.  



It was strange to see another person’s face after so long alone with Javert.  He had, for a time, become the only person in the world to Valjean, and now he was startled to encounter evidence that this was not so.  He realized that he was quite unwilling to speak.  Luckily, Javert seemed to have no such hesitation.  



“Excuse me,” said Javert.  “- Ma’am.  My friend and I are wondering where we can find an inn?”



The woman looked at them with evident curiosity, but gave them directions without asking any probing questions.  She stared after them as they headed off in the way she had indicated.  It was no wonder - the town probably saw few visitors at this time of year, and probably none outfitted as they were.  



A couple of turns until they reached what must have been a main thoroughfare, and there was the inn.  An enticing smell carried through the air.  The inn doubled as a public house in the small town, and at this time of year the clientele was predominantly locals there drinking and enjoying hot meals.  It was too early for it to be crowded, but there were a couple of regulars inside.  Heads turned when Valjean and Javert walked in, and then did a double take when they realized that they were strangers, and saw the condition that they were in.  



Javert did all the talking, allowing Valjean to stand slightly to the left and behind his tall frame.  He told the story they had agreed on, that they were friends on an adventure gone wrong. He asked for food and lodging for the night, and hot baths.  



“There are hot showers in the rooms, but I’m afraid we don’t have any rooms with tubs.  Will messieurs need two rooms?” asked the innkeeper.



Valjean held his breath.  They had not discussed this.  His gut instinct told him to pretend that they weren’t lovers and not to call attention to themselves.  



“No, I’m used to the sight of his face, after all those miles on the ice,” said Javert with a smile. “We’ll save the coin - we still have a long trip ahead of us.”



Javert had handled it well, and Valjean was once again relieved that he had let him do the talking.  Let the innkeeper think that it was thrift rather than lust causing them to share a room.  He was also more than a little impressed that a remote inn like this had showers inside the rooms - that type of luxury was more typical of urban Orgoreyn than rural Karhide.  They had arrived at what felt like paradise - he was already daydreaming about a hot meal and then to add the prospect of a shower…



A stable was attached to the inn, and before they settled in they put the sledge in an unoccupied stall. The few horses inside knickered expectantly, but quickly calmed down when they realized that the sledge was not bearing food.  They removed their valuables from amongst the bulky gear, bringing them back into the inn with them. Valjean wasn’t particularly concerned, especially not in a small town like this, but Javert insisted that they take measures to prevent theft.  



While they were getting their gear settled, the innkeeper prepared a meal for them.  He sat them at a large table, a few seats apart from their nearest fellows.  The food was by most standards relatively simple country fare, but to Valjean it seemed like the finest feast he had ever eaten.  They had been going hungry all day, with no guarantee of when their next meal would come.  So when the innkeeper brought them a hearty meat stew swimming with root vegetables, and bread and cheese on the side, he could not believe his eyes.



“There you go.  What, better than what you were eating out on the Gobrin Ice?”  asked the innkeeper with amusement.  “I’m going to get the full story out of you soon, but for now, I’ll let you eat in peace.”






They had both been so hungry for so long - eating enough to ward off starvation but never enough to really satisfy under the grueling conditions in which they were traveling.  Now they ate in silence and concentration, finishing the food in front of them and sighing with pleasure when the innkeeper brought over more.  The other diners were watching them, some more and some less discreetly, but they didn’t approach or interrupt them.  Whether it was out of a sense of reserve around strangers or a wish to give them their space after a harsh journey, Valjean and Javert were left to eat in peace.  



“You two weren’t kidding about being hungry,” he said, as Valjean and Javert quietly tucked into seconds.  



After their meal, they said their thanks and went down the main hallway of the rather small building to their room.  When they unlocked the door, they saw that the innkeeper had arranged a room with two beds for them at the price of one, no doubt intended as a favor to them.  Javert shut the door behind them and looked Valjean from head to toe.  



“We’ll rumple the sheets in the other?  Unless you would like your space?” asked Javert.



“Don’t be ridiculous,” replied Valjean, who had been fantasizing about this moment almost as much as he had been about the food.  “Of course I want to share a bed with you.”  



Javert tossed the bag he was carrying onto one of the beds, and then went to look at the bathroom.  



Javert turned the hot water on in the shower and stared at it for a moment.  “I didn’t have one of these in Montreuil.” 



“Oh?  You can take the first shower, but hurry up:  I’m not sure how long I can stay awake waiting for you.”



“We could…get in together,” replied Javert slyly.



It would be a tight fit in the small tiled stall.  Valjean could feel that he was blushing, but the idea had its appeal.  “All right,” he said.



In  the grand scheme of things, it was a little thing, but still a fine one to be able to undress standing fully up, as they had not been able to in the tent.  They helped one another with their clothes, working at a surprisingly sedate pace.  Their exhaustion was getting the better of them, but Valjean was still greatly looking forward to this shower.  



At first they just let the water run over them, shifting occasionally to allow more water to reach one another.  



They lathered each other with the soap, with the water on nearly the warmest setting.  As the water ran down him, Valjean felt properly hot for the first time in months.  Javert massaged soap through his hair and down his back.  The touch, the warmth, the proximity, the wetness:  all was conspiring to arouse them both.  There was no hiding it this close.  Javert pushed Valjean firmly but gently into the side of the shower, and kissed him as water hit them both. He eyed Valjean’s erect cock, then leaned in closer.  



“This needs some attention,” he whispered into Valjean’s ear.  Valjean was certainly not about to object, and he moaned as Javert efficiently took him in hand and began stroking him.  Javert had learned exactly how to touch Valjean.  Wanting to reciprocate, he reached for Javert, who batted away his hand.  



“No,” Javert said.  “Just feel this now.”



Javert ran a soapy hand over the head of Valjean’s cock, caressing him for a moment before returning to his previous rhythmic motion.



“We’re alive,” Javert continued.



“-Yes-” gasped Valjean.



“We made it.”



“-...Yes-”



“Together,” finished Javert.  Valjean felt him grip him harder at the word, stopping just on the pleasant side of being painful. 



“-Yes, oh God, Javert, yes!”  Valjean came hard and let the water wash away his fluids.  Exhausted, spent, he sank back a little more against the side of the shower.  



But the enthusiasm which had taken hold of Javert was catching.  Valjean kissed Javert’s throat, then made his way rather quickly down the rest of his body.  He hesitated.  He had never taken a cock in his mouth, but he supposed that if that hadn’t stopped Javert out on the ice, it shouldn’t stop Valjean now, either.



The still-running water got in his face, and he closed his eyes and enjoyed the weight of Javert’s cock on his tongue.  He was unsure of what to do, but Javert seemed appreciative, and ran his fingers through Valjean’s soaked hair.  He licked and sucked until Javert found his pleasure, trembling in the small space.  



Cleanup was easy - they had only to wash the rest of the soap off.  An extreme fatigue was taking over Valjean now.



After the shower, they toweled themselves off and went straight to bed, exchanging few words.  First one yawned, and then the other.  Slipping under the covers, they allowed their legs to intertwine in peace for the first time, unencumbered by their sleeping bags.   Valjean’s foot massaged against Javert’s legs, and Javert buried his face against Valjean’s chest. His breath was warm against Valjean’s skin.  



“You smell like soap,” Javert said.  



“Well, you put the soap on me.”  The soap provided by the inn had a pleasant lavender scent that seemed strong after so long without scented products.  



“I’m not complaining.”  Javert breathed in deeply, his arm around Valjean.  Valjean soaked in the touch.  As he fell asleep, he thought about how nice it would be to fuck Javert in a bed like this, but they were both spent in every way possible.  The warmth and softness, combined with the sense of safety and the simple pleasure of feeling fully clean, lulled them quickly to a contented sleep.  



***



They slept late into the following morning - very late by their typical standards.  When they got up, Javert made sure to muss the other bed a bit as though he had slept there.  Valjean watched, looking pleased.  



“Go ahead, smirk,” said Javert, getting up from the bed.



“I wasn’t smirking.  I was only watching.”



They made their way down to the main dining room of the inn, where the same man from the previous evening was serving breakfast, and sat down side by side.  The inn’s other guests were already seated, along with a larger crowd than had been there last night.  Javert guessed that word must have spread about their arrival, and now the more curious townsfolk had arrived to see what they could hear from the travelers.  The attraction of the two visitors must be good for business, thought Javert as he looked around at all the customers picking at their breakfasts and eyeing him and Valjean.  



This time, while the innkeeper served them eggs, bread, and sausage, he demanded that they tell him the full story of how they had come to be out on the Gobrin Ice in the middle of winter.  He took a seat in front of them, evidently trusting that no one would need to be served while the two travelers told their story.



Javert spoke up when Valjean didn’t.  They had rehearsed the story together - Javert knew his limits and telling a tall tale without practicing was one of them.   “We are planning on writing a book on the Gobrin Ice, and our adventures crossing it.  There’s so little known about that part of the world, and we wanted to experience it firsthand.”



“It’s true, I’ve never heard of anyone crossing the ice in the winter,” spoke the innkeeper.  “People who show up in the winter - they’ve come from the south, not from off the bay on skis.”



“We wanted to see if it could be done,” said Javert.



The innkeeper shook his head.  “I don’t know whether to admire you or tell you off for being so reckless.”



“And at your age, too.”  An older man among the people watching shook his head, but whether with admiration or disapproval, Javert neither knew nor cared.



“We may not have planned well - my unexpected illness set back our departure date.  Looking back, we should have postponed or canceled the trip,” said Javert.



Now that he had finished the lying portion of the story and moved on to the truth, Javert was getting caught up in the storytelling.  He recounted everything that had happened on the ice - everything, that is, except for what had occurred inside their tent.  Javert would not have thought of himself as a gifted storyteller, but the gathered people seemed enthralled with the tale.  He noticed Valjean watching him as he spoke.  It felt a little like he was back in Montreuil making a report to Madeleine, and the thought struck him strangely.  He waited for any sign that Valjean wanted a chance to speak, but he seemed perfectly content to listen to Javert.  He drew the tale to a conclusion, when they had found themselves in this town. 



“An admirable adventure, if a reckless one.  How long are you staying?” asked the innkeeper.  



“We’d like to get home as soon as we can,” said Javert, whose thoughts had returned to his duty.  “As a matter of fact - what do you think, LeBlanc, should we leave when we are finished here?”  



“Yes, I think so,” said Valjean.  



“You should stay here until spring - write your book,” spoke up one of the townspeople.  



“I’m afraid we can’t - we both have obligations that we have already been away from for too long.”



There was a murmur of disappointment, as Valjean and Javert returned their attention to the food.  They had neglected their breakfasts while Javert spoke - Valjean too - and they gratefully resumed eating after wrapping up the tale.  



Various members of the impromptu audience asked questions about their journey, and Javert answered as they ate.  Occasionally Valjean spoke up.  The innkeeper brought them seconds again without waiting for them to ask, for which they were deeply grateful.  Once they had finished their meal, Valjean paid the bill, and they said their goodbyes feeling cheerful and well fed.  



They made their way to the stable to pick up their sledge and camping supplies.  Javert thought that he had done well enough meeting the social demands, but he was left slightly dazed by the crowd.  Somehow, after everything that they had gone through, what Javert was looking forward to most was getting to be alone with Valjean again, on the road.



***



Travel in Karhide was of course a much different experience from traveling on the Gobrin Ice.  The diligences did not run at this time of year, and few enough people were traveling.  But Valjean’s money had held out, and they were able to stock up on food.  They might have been able to stay at inns, relaxing in warm beds and eating hot meals.  The idea certainly had its charms, but they agreed that it was best if Valjean encountered as few people as possible.  So they continued living rough and camping.  The cold was less bitter here off of the great continental glacier, but it was still a hardship.  He could tell that it was so for Javert, in particular, although the man didn’t complain. 



In a way, Valjean was pleased to stay away from civilization.  He was not particularly attached to creature comforts, and the tent had begun to feel like home.  As nice as the soft bed and hot shower had been, it had been offset by his discomfort in the crowded inn.  He was ridiculously grateful to Javert for handling the storytelling portion of their visit.  Speaking in front of a crowd was not something that he missed from his days as mayor.  Having Javert simply step in and take care of it…he felt protected in a way that he never would have been able to ask for directly. 



On their first night back to camping, Valjean broached a topic which he had been turning over in his head, but which he hadn’t had a chance to bring up while they were traveling that day.  



“It might make more sense for us to split up:  for you to go ahead and find passage on one of the landships and go directly to Paris,” said Valjean with an attempt at casualness that he didn’t feel.  



Javert’s look was fierce.  “Is that what you want?”



“No, of course not - I mean, I don’t want to be separated from you, but I know how important that it is that you reach Paris as quickly as possible.”  It hurt him to say it.  Valjean knew that any separation might too easily prove to be permanent, if he were captured while Javert was away. 



“In that case, we will just have to ski faster.  I have no intention of leaving you behind, and it would be too big of a risk for you to seek passage as well.”  Javert looked resolute, and the discussion was clearly over.  The words warmed Valjean’s heart.  



They traveled just as hard as they had on the Gobrin Ice, with only the daylight hours marking their stopping points. It was easier hauling the sledge on a full stomach, however.  There was no particularly bad weather, beyond the all-pervasive cold, and so they were making excellent time.  



As they approached Montreuil, they started to make a greater effort to stay away from populated areas.  They would loop around the town itself on the way to Paris, avoiding anyone who might recognize Valjean.  They camped a few miles out from the town, intending to get up early the next morning and make their way around the town, catching the road up the mountain pass on the other side.  They had stocked up on food at the previous town, Javert going into the store while Valjean waited at their camp, and so there was no need for them to enter the town.  Javert of course would not risk arrest, but he ran a very high risk of inconvenient questions that he would prefer not to have to answer, and so he avoided Montreuil.  



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



The light came late into the forest at this time of year, and the dim, filtered light combined with their exhaustion and the warmth of their sleeping bags made it hard to get up.  But they were motivated to travel hard, and so pushed themselves to wake up as soon as possible and eat a quick breakfast.  As they began to strike the camp they had made in the forest around Montreuil, they spotted a figure in the woods with them.  It quickly became apparent that the person saw them as well, as the figure turned and approached them on snowshoes.  He carried a long foray gun - evidently they had encountered a hunter.  The company was unwelcome.  



“Hello?” the man called out.  “Who goes there?”  



“Travelers,” said Javert warily, as the man drew closer.  “We are on our way to Paris.”



“Trappers?” asked the man.



“No, adventurers. We’ve come from an expedition across the Gobrin Ice.”



But the man seemed to no longer be paying attention to Javert.  His eyes widened and fixed on Valjean.  



“Valjean?!” said the figure.  “I don’t believe it!  You old devil, is that really you?”



“Hmm, you are mistaken, that’s not his name,” said Javert, hoping against hope that his alarm wasn’t showing on his face.  Knowing that it must be.  “This is Monsieur LeBlanc.”



“Don’t you remember your old pal Brevet?”  continued the man, ignoring Javert, as Valjean said nothing.  Javert wracked his panicking brain - the name sounded familiar.  If he remembered correctly, there had been a man by that name on the same chain as Valjean, back in Toulon.  



“My name is LeBlanc,” repeated Valjean calmly.  



The man clearly didn’t believe him.  “Not many people as would recognize you, as shaggy as that hair is.  But you aren’t fooling me.  There’s a reward out for you, did you know that?  I’m sorry, old friend, but today looks like my lucky day.”  His grip on his weapon tightened.  “And to think that I came out here hunting deer…”



Javert stepped in between Valjean and Brevet.  “You are mistaken.  This is my companion, Jean LeBlanc, and we are gentlemen adventurers.  Now, I would advise you to leave us alone and stop waving that weapon around.  As a matter of fact, you shouldn’t even be out here hunting deer.  It’s not the season for them.”



Brevet took real notice of Javert for the first time.  “Who are you to him?  Another wanted man, I have no doubt.  I’m an ex-con myself, I’ll make no secret of it.  But I’ll have you know that I got out of Toulon the honest way.  It’s him that I want, but I’ll take you with me as well.”  



Unarmed, Javert did not see what they could do against Brevet.  Could they maybe pay him off, with what remained of the cash?  Maybe they could escape this unlawful detention later, if Brevet grew careless?  But - no.  Valjean had taken off, downhill on his skis, bolting across the frozen landscape. Freed from the need to pull the sledge and match pace with Javert, he was a fantastically fast, graceful skier.  Before Javert could react, as he watched in disbelief (for how could Valjean be so reckless?), Brevet had raised his gun and fired a single shot.



Valjean fell.



With a roar of rage, Javert struck Brevet hard.  He wrest the gun from his hands, then struck him a cruel blow to the head.  Brevet crumpled, but Javert had no time for him.  He raced to Valjean’s side.  



Valjean was clearly still alive, he saw with relief as he approached.  The wounded man attempted to stand, falling back into the drift of snow he had emerged from.  Javert dropped to kneel at his side.  He saw that Valjean had been shot in the thigh.  Blood seeped into the snow, dark and hot and angry.  “Shh, shh, stay there,” he said, attempting to be calm.  Javert pressed against the wound, willing the blood to stop.  Valjean needed aid, he needed shelter, he needed a doctor.  The blood was slowing, but not by enough.  Javert knew only the minimum of field first aid, and what he knew suggested that this wound was far outside of his ability to care for it.  



He put together a makeshift tourniquet and applied it to the top of Valjean’s thigh.  Valjean seemed dazed, and in pain, and responded very little to what Javert was doing.  Javert doubted that his plunge into the snow was doing him any favors.



He couldn’t carry Valjean.  Javert tried to think clearly.  He would load Valjean onto the sledge, and bring him to the nearest farm, and hope that the farmer didn’t ask too many questions.  



“Just stay there, all right, Valjean?  I’ll be right back for you.”  Every instinct in Javert was telling him to stay by Valjean’s side, but he knew that he must act quickly.  



He raced back to the slight clearing where minutes ago they had been peacefully taking down their camp, looking forward to a day much like the others had been.  Javert grabbed the traces of the sledge, yanking it forward with him. 



Valjean was shivering violently by the time that Javert got back to him.  He must be beginning to go into shock.  Javert carefully loaded him onto the sledge, covering him with a blanket and starting to move.  



There was no longer any choice, no chance of concealment.  Come what may, Javert pulled the sledge as fast as he could in the direction of Montreuil.  



***



Fantine woke early, as was her habit.  She nestled against Marguerite, who was still asleep, but made small movements in response to her touch.  It was a Sunday, and there was no need to wake her to go to the factory.  Cosette had the day off from school, but would be sleeping now.  There was a time when Fantine would have slipped from bed, and picked up her sewing so as to not waste a moment of the daylight.  When she had first retrieved Cosette, she worried endlessly about how she would make ends meet with the child there.  But Cosette had proved to be a healthy child, whose care cost less than Fantine had been sending to the Thénardiers.  Between her income and Marguerite’s, there was no longer a necessity for Fantine to spend every waking moment working.  She luxuriated in time spent with her newfound family, and right now, lying next to Marguerite was more important to her than wringing every last penny from the fabric she sewed.  



Gradually, Marguerite awoke as well, sleepily placing her arms around Fantine.  



Yes, thought Fantine. They did not get enough time together like this, just the two of them. She kissed Marguerite, who awoke more fully in her arms.  The morning was chilly, the fire having long since gone out, but warmth built between them.  Brief kisses grew longer and lingered.  Fantine nipped at Marguerite, daring her onwards.  It turned into a familiar dance between them.  Marguerite, fully awake now, took the lead as she often did.  Fantine melted against her as their legs intertwined.  The roll of hips, the touch of fingers, the muffled moans, and two final cries. 



They remained together, quiet and contented, for a while longer, then they got up to start the day. 



Marguerite cooked them breakfast, speaking again of the berry patch that she wanted to plant come spring.  During the summer months, they grew quite a bit of their own food.  Cosette proved to be fascinated with growing things, and was soon a big help to Marguerite in the garden.  Clearly overworked by the Thénardiers, the girl was surprised to have as much free time as she did, and was delighted to go to school.  She did what few chores she was assigned willingly and without complaint.  Today, Fantine woke Cosette, and helped her dress and tidy the small room where she slept.  



Over a warm stack of pancakes, Cosette pleaded with her mother to be allowed to go play in the snow that day.  Fantine hesitated, but Cosette’s warm clothes would protect her while she played.  



“I was thinking,” said Marguerite, “of heading into town, to get some shopping done.  Maybe Cosette could come with me, if she likes?”  



“Yes, please, Mama - may I?”  Cosette turned to her with excitement. 



“Of course,” said Fantine.  That would be nice - Cosette would be supervised while she was outside, but she herself would be able to make progress on her sewing. Fantine didn’t especially care for the cold - she had spent too long unable to afford to heat her home to really want to play in the snow with her daughter, if she were being honest.  



After they cleaned up from breakfast, Marguerite left with Cosette as promised.  A small basket swung from Cosette’s hand, matching the larger one held by Marguerite, and Fantine was filled with warmth to watch them go.  She settled into the dilapidated armchair by the window where she preferred to sew. 



There was a rap on the door, hard and insistent.  It did not let up.  



Faintly alarmed, Fantine hurried to the door.  “I’m coming,” she called out.  



The knocking let up for a moment, and she swung the door open. 



“What is it?” she asked.  



Outside was a tall, disheveled man, clearly in a lot of distress.  



“My friend has been injured in a hunting accident,” spoke the man.  “Please, can you help us?”  



Fantine took in the scene.  She had not until this moment noticed that the man was hauling a sledge which contained a second man, nearly covered.  She didn’t know what to say:  every instinct was telling her that here was danger, but her heart went out to the wounded man. 



“All right,” she said.  “Come in.”   



The man was visibly relieved.  He pulled the blanket off the man on the sledge, and helped him to his feet.  Fantine gasped slightly under her breath - she could not see the wound itself, but there was a lot of blood. 



“Quick,” she said, “this way.”  She showed the two men into the house, helping to stabilize the wounded man.  They eased him through the doorway and into the parlor.  “Let’s set him down there,” she said, indicating the armchair with a gesture of her free hand.  



They carefully deposited the wounded man in the seat.  He settled down with a groan - no doubt the move had been terribly painful.  



“He will need a doctor,” Fantine said, hoping that the man would be able to hold out long enough for a doctor to arrive.  



“Do you recognize him?” asked the tall man.  



Fantine stared.  “I’m sorry, do I know you?”  There was a challenge to her tone.  She had met all too many men during her time as a woman of the town, and had no wish to be reminded of that time now, or to have a former client assume an air of familiarity.  



“We’ve met.  I believe you were so good as to carry a message to my coworkers in the police, once.”  



The pieces fell into place - then this man was not a former client, but somehow the policeman Javert who had once haunted the town, and had disappeared around the time the mayor had left.  The mayor, who looked not terribly unlike the man bleeding badly on her armchair.  



“Don’t waste time,” said Fantine, her mind made up. She knew that the mayor was a wanted man, now.  She also knew that he was the reason she was able to live now with Cosette, and she would not betray him.  “Go downtown, get a doctor.  I don’t own a horse - you’ll have to go on skis.  I’ll stay here with him.”



The man looked torn.



“Go,” she repeated.  “I’m no expert, but he needs medical care.”



With that, the man nodded.  “I - thank you.  I will be back as soon as I can.”  He hurried back out the door, fumbling with the skis he had left outside.



Fantine turned back to the man in the armchair.  “I’ll get you some brandy.”  She went to the kitchen, retrieving the bottle of brandy and a glass.  She poured a large portion, handing it to the 
man.  “Drink this, for the pain.”



He looked as though he did not trust himself to speak, but hissed out his thanks as he accepted the glass.  Fantine watched while he emptied the glass, and quietly poured him another.  She rarely drank now, but had spent many nights in the past numbing her pain with brandy.  She hoped that it would work as well numbing this man’s leg.  



“It’s going to be okay,” she said, convinced of nothing of the sort.  “It’s not far to the doctor’s.”



***



Javert supposed that they must count themselves lucky that they had run into Fantine, who had reason to want to do Valjean a good turn.  She had not directly said that she recognized Valjean, but Javert thought it was inevitable.  Hopefully her loyalty was greater than her wish for the monetary reward of turning him in.  He had to hope that his luck would hold out even further, and that the doctor would not recognize Valjean.  It was a long shot, but he did not think that there was any chance for Valjean unless his wound was treated properly.  He could not let Valjean die.  



Javert remembered from his years in Montreuil where the nearest doctor’s office was, and he had enough presence of mind to remember the way he took from Fantine’s cottage to get there.  A stroke of good luck - the doctor was in and willing to call on the injured man immediately.  He followed Javert back to Fantine’s home, where they barged in the front door.



“Javert,” slurred Valjean as he entered the room.  “You’re back.”  



There was something wrong with his voice, Javert noticed with alarm.  Valjean’s words were barely intelligible.  



“Is he …worse?” Javert asked Fantine. 



“No, I don’t think so.  Lost a little more blood, is all.  Oh, I see - I gave him brandy, for the pain.”



The doctor was taking in the scene and opening his bag.  “Please leave me to work,” he said.  Javert was reluctant to leave, but when he looked to Valjean for confirmation, he nodded to him slightly.  



Javert and Fantine went back outside onto the front porch, while the doctor was already beginning to cut away Valjean’s pants.  



***



The wait was interminable, and more than Javert thought that he could bear.  Several times he was tempted to charge in and see how the doctor was doing, but Fantine held him back.  Eventually, the doctor stepped outside to rejoin them, after nearly an hour of work.



“It looks like your friend is going to make it,” the doctor said.  “The wound was a clean one, and I got the bleeding stopped.  It’s all cleaned and dressed now.”



Javert had never been so relieved in his life.  “Thank you, Monsieur,” he said, feeling that words alone were not enough to express what he felt.



“He’s unconscious now - I used chloroform while I was working, but he should wake up soon.  Keep him warm; the risk of shock isn’t past.  He will need to rest for a while - no walking for at least a week, and no strenuous exercise until it is fully healed.  He has lost a lot of blood, and I doubt he will have any energy for a long while.  Of course, call me if there is any hint of infection.”  



“I will.”



“It’s lucky you got me to him in time,” the doctor continued, looking back in the direction of the patient.  “I’ll have to report this incident to Inspector Rivette, you know - do you have any idea who shot him?” 



“None,” lied Javert.  He felt no wish to protect Brevet, if he were even still alive, but he could think of no way of naming the man without implicating Valjean.



The doctor shook his head.  “Anyone who can’t tell the difference between a deer and a person has no business hunting.”



Javert agreed, and paid the doctor from Valjean’s purse.



“Remember,” said the doctor as he took his leave, “don’t hesitate to call me.”



“Thank God,” Fantine said when he left.  She paused for a moment.  “Listen, there’s no need to tell me anything that you don’t wish to, but I think I understand the situation.  So you and ‘LeBlanc’ are gentlemen adventurers.  All right.  But I have a feeling you don’t want to stay at a public inn.  He may stay here for as long as he needs to.  I will get a room ready.”



“I will stay with him,” said Javert, knowing that it was not the polite thing to do, but not caring.  



“That’s fine,” said Fantine, who appeared surprised.



“We can pay.”



“Please don’t worry about it,” said Fantine.  “Someone did me a favor this year that I can never fully repay.  Think of this as paying it forward.”



Javert stared for a moment, but finally nodded.  Fantine was less mercenary than he had expected based on her former profession.  



“I don’t live alone,” she said.  “My roommate and my daughter are out at the market now, but they will be back anytime now.  Help me make up a bed for him.”



Fantine and Javert made up a soft pallet on the floor of her room for Cosette, and set up the girl’s room as a ward for the wounded man.  



“I’m afraid there’s simply no more room in the house,” said Fantine, “and no more beds.”



“That’s fine,” said Javert, “We have become far more used to hardship than soft beds in the past months.  I will sleep on the floor.”  



He retrieved his sleeping bag from their sledge, lying it on the floor in the girl’s small room.  There were a few more moments of stillness, as Fantine and Javert kept an eye on Valjean, and then everything happened at once.  Marguerite and Cosette returned home, and the commotion woke Valjean finally.  



“Mama, who’s that?” asked Cosette, pointing from Valjean to Javert.  Marguerite asked much the same question at the same time. 



“They’ve had an accident,” said Fantine.  “They are going to stay here for a while.”



Marguerite looked taken aback, and Fantine drew her aside to explain.  Cosette bounced along nearby, excited by the prospect of guests.  



Meanwhile, Javert passed on the news from the doctor to Valjean.  



“And the doctor?” asked Valjean nervously.



“It’s hard to say for sure, but I don’t think that he recognized you,” answered Javert.



“What do we do now?” 



“We can rest here for a while, get you healed up.  Fantine remembers you, and wants to do you a good turn.  She hasn’t said your true name out loud, but she knows it’s you.”



Fantine and Marguerite turned back to where the patient was waiting.  Cosette bounded up to Valjean.  



“We’ve never had a guest before!” said Cosette excitedly.  “You will be staying in my room.”



“Thank you, Cosette,” said Valjean, who still appeared to be somewhat drunk.



“Mama!” she cried.  “The guest knows my name.”



Fantine laughed.  “Yes, dear.  Their names are Messieurs LeBlanc and Javert.”



“Pleased to meet you,” she said with a curtsey.  “I will show you the way.”



“Thank you, Mademoiselle,” said Javert as an aside to Marguerite.



The initial chaos was dying down a bit, and Javert and Fantine helped Valjean to the small room with the bed, led by a babbling Cosette, and set him to rest.  


...

...I'm very sorry that I shot Valjean.


That afternoon, Javert went out on a series of errands.  The first was a grim one - he intended to find out if he had killed Brevet earlier, when he had hit him in the head.  He returned alone to the spot in the forest where Valjean had been shot, following the trail made by the sledge.  There was the spot where Valjean had fallen, and Javert felt all of the anger he had pushed down rush back to him.  An ancient, primal instinct to protect his mate made part of Javert hope for a moment that he had in fact killed Brevet.  But the greater part of him, all that was devoted to the law, was relieved to find no body lying up on the hill from which the man had fired.  



Still, he would have to deal with this problem.  Brevet could not be allowed to spread word of Jean Valjean’s presence in the town - not with him currently injured and unable to flee.  Javert was able to track the footsteps back to a tiny cabin, where he found Brevet alone.  He was unarmed, and there was terror in the man’s eyes when he saw Javert.



“Listen, Brevet.  We both know that if you are convicted of attempted murder now, it will be the gallows for you.  So here is what is going to happen.  I will look the other way and not report you to Inspector Rivette, and you will not speak a word about Jean Valjean to a single soul.  No, don’t say a word.  Do you understand me?”  



Breve nodded, winced as though his head pained him, and without another word, Javert left.  He shook with anger, every fiber of his body on alert, and he still did not trust himself around the man.



Afterwards, Javert decided that it was time to take another risk.  He went back into the town of Montreuil, and sent a telegraph to Chabouillet.  It was too risky to put any important details in the text, since it was not an especially private form of communication, so Javert stuck to the basics.  “Returned to Karhide, on my way to Paris with a report soon. -Javert” was the entirety of it.  He imagined that Chabouillet might be surprised to hear from him alive and free at this point, and the telegraph was more to convey that fact than it was to provide any other useful information.  



These things accomplished, he walked through the rest of the day in a haze of unreality.  Everything about their situation had changed so quickly that now that the initial emergency was over, Javert was having trouble processing it.  While out, he bought some bread and jam from the store as a goodwill offering to their hostesses, then wandered back to the cottage, where Fantine had made dinner.



Javert brought Valjean his dinner, and helped him to eat.  He felt the man’s forehead for fever, and although he didn’t feel especially warm, he then asked Fantine to come in and check as well.  He did not trust his own judgment on something so important, and no doubt with a little one she would be more used to gauging another’s temperature than he was. She nodded her approval as well, and Javert breathed a sigh of relief.  



“But how are you feeling?  Really?” asked Javert when Fantine had left.  He had been lucky over the years, and although he had been injured in the line of duty, it had never been by gunshot, nor as seriously as Valjean had been injured.  Now he felt helpless to do anything more for the man he loved.  He was condemned to be a spectator of Valjean’s pain.  



“I’ve got a fierce headache,” said Valjean wryly, surprising Javert into a quiet laugh.  He had forgotten that Valjean would be nursing quite the hangover after all that brandy, and though he himself rarely drank, he had been around enough men suffering from the condition to feel a further pang of sympathy for Valjean.  



“And your leg?  Did the brandy really do so well in making you forget your injury?”



“No, I have to admit that it’s pretty bad.  Now that the shock’s worn off…”  



“The doctor left some laudanum to give you after the brandy wore off, for the pain.  It will make you tired.”



“I’m already tired.”



Javert retrieved the small bottle and a spoon, and measured out the designated amount for Valjean.  Valjean took it, and then Javert leaned in unexpectedly close.



“Listen to me, don’t think that we aren’t going to have a conversation about what you did.  Why did you run like that?  You must have known that Brevet was willing to shoot - he is a dangerous man.”



“I’m officially a dangerous man.” 



“Don’t give me that,” said Javert with impatience.  “Why did you run?”  



“I…don’t know exactly what got into me, but in that moment I knew that I couldn’t bear to go back to prison.”



“Even at the cost of your life?  You made me make a promise to you once…”



“That -” interrupted Valjean, but Javert would not be deterred.  



“I now ask for the same promise from you.  I want you to stay alive, come what may.”



Valjean looked conflicted, but in the end, he agreed.  He was soon dozing from the effects of the laudanum.



That night, Javert settled down on the floor next to the small bed.  It was not much harder than the ground had been during all their time camping. Valjean’s left hand stretched down from where he lay on the bed to rest on Javert’s shoulder, and Javert felt perfectly content.  Though the circumstances may not have been what they would have asked for, he was still at Valjean’s side, where he belonged.



***



The next day, Valjean already seemed to have improved.  He woke up before Javert, and idly stroked Javert’s hair until he had awoken as well.  They remained that way for a while, Javert unwilling to get up despite being on the hard ground.



After breakfast with their hostesses, Javert gave Valjean another dose of the laudanum.  As he did, though, Valjean caught his attention.  



“Javert,” he said, placing his hand on Javert’s arm as he went to set down the bottle on the tiny table by the head of the bed.  “There’s something that we need to talk about.”



“Yes?”



“You need to go to Paris, to tell Chabouillet everything you know.  You should leave right away.”



“You don’t beat around the bush, do you?  But the answer is no.  I’m staying here with you, for now at least.”



“No, you aren’t,” said Valjean matter-of-factly. “It wasn’t a question, or a request.  Remember why we were on this journey in the first place?  What’s at stake?  You need to go to Paris.”



Javert tried to protest more, but quickly felt like he was fighting a losing battle.  Valjean was right and he knew it.  Now that Valjean had been delivered to safety, he could not fail to do his duty.  Not when Valjean had sacrificed so much in order to make it possible.  



After he thoroughly lost the argument, Javert reluctantly made ready to leave.  He made his excuses to Fantine and Marguerite, telling them that he would be back as soon as possible but urgent business took him away.  Then he took his leave of Valjean, a much more difficult task.  He knelt at Valjean’s bedside, and kissed him long and passionately.  He gratefully took in the lazy, laudanum soaked kisses he received in return.  He desperately hoped that the doctor was right, and that he would return to find Valjean in better health, but in his heart he wondered if he were seeing Valjean for the last time.  He pressed his lips to Valjean’s once more, gently.



As he shut the door behind him, he felt something within him collapse, and he wondered what duty could be worth this.



***



After Fantine returned from the market, she went in to check on Valjean.  He was glad to see her - he would admit only to himself that he was deeply lonely following Javert’s departure.  He had been in such close quarters with the man for so long now that he was forgetting how much he had formerly liked to be alone.  In addition, he was in a great deal of pain, despite the laudanum, and although he did not like to complain, he thought that perhaps some conversation would be a welcome distraction.  



“I thought you might want to have a book to read,” Fantine said, pulling out a small volume that she had brought.  



He took the book with deep gratitude - the inactivity was wearing on him as much as the loneliness.  Now that he thought about it, it had been months since he had had the opportunity to read, and he eyed the book hungrily.  



“I can’t read, myself.  The bookseller said that this was a good one.  Cosette is learning how to read, thanks to the new school the former mayor founded.  I didn’t think you would be interested in her schoolbooks, though.”



“Wonderful,” said Valjean.  “Every child should have a chance to learn to read.”  



“She is starting to read aloud to me,” said Fantine.



“Do you ever think of learning, too?”



“I do well enough for myself,” Fantine said with a hint of self-consciousness.  



“I didn’t learn to read until I was an adult, and I found that a new world opened up to me.  Consider it?”  



“I will,” she said.  



Valjean cast around for something else to say.  “What is happening in Montreuil, these days?”



“Oh, things aren’t the same at all as they used to be.  When the former mayor disappeared, his affairs weren’t in order.  His property was seized by the state, and the king appointed a new man to run the factory.  A plum project, for a favored yes-man.”



It hurt to hear, but worse was to come.  Fantine seemed to take his silence as an invitation to keep talking, and she filled the space that he had created.  



“He’s been running the factory into the ground.  No new innovation, and he’s dropped wages and increased hours.  There are more injuries on the floor now, too, since people are working faster to make up their wages, and they are getting tired.  I would know, Marguerite works there and she tells me all about it.”



“Meanwhile, there’s the new mayor.  He’s not terrible, but he’s not like Monsieur Madeleine was.  You can tell he’s just going through the motions.  He’s interested in the prestige of the job, but not the responsibilities of governance.  But I’m not really one to follow politics, so that’s as much as I could tell you about that.  I will say this: all your everyday people, we miss Monsieur Madeleine, and that’s a fact.  They say he’s a criminal but I won’t hear a word of it.  Maybe he has committed a crime or two in the past.  Who among us hasn’t done something we aren’t proud of in our past?  But I won’t hear a word against him.”



There was no doubt in Valjean’s mind that Fantine knew - she must just be maintaining the polite fiction of his false identity.  He had the oddest feeling to hear her speak of the mood of the town, however - an uncomfortable, ill-fitting warmth that made him want to pace the room and filled him with a sense of wellbeing at the same time.  To know that he had left a positive mark on the town, and was remembered well by so many, was almost enough to counter the negative news Fantine had delivered.



“I’ve been away,” he said finally.  “But it’s good to hear news of Montreuil, even if it’s not what I would like to hear.”



“Would you like some company?  Cosette is at school, and Marguerite is at the factory, but I would be happy to bring my sewing in here and keep you company.”



“That would be nice,” said Valjean, surprised to find that he meant it.  Once, he had helped Fantine out of a sense of obligation - duty towards one that had been wronged through his inattention and lack of action.  Now he found that he enjoyed the company of this straightforward, blunt, but kind woman.  



Fantine brought in the drab men’s shirts she was working on, and he was impressed by the skill with which she wielded the needle.  He began the book she had bought for him.  For a moment he thought that he might offer to read out loud to her, but if he were honest the pain in his leg was quite bad, and he feared his voice would break.  Nevertheless, they enjoyed a quiet, companionable afternoon.  It was a pleasant enough distraction from the cloud of pain and loneliness that otherwise hovered around Valjean.



***



Now that he was traveling alone, Javert brought only the bare minimum of supplies with him in a backpack.  He stuck to the main roads to Paris, over the mountain pass, and got passage on board a mercantile landship.  These large tracked vehicles slowly criss-crossed the frozen terrain of Karhide during the winter, primarily allowing trade to continue during the long winter, but also forming something of a lifeline for personal transportation between towns.



The small cab had three other passengers in it, and he found the crowded quarters tiresome.  Javert found himself even more grateful that it had been Jean Valjean who was his companion on the Gobrin Ice, and not any one of the others of the crowds of people who seemed to irritate him. 



They stopped at public houses along the way, including a particularly disreputable one known inexplicably as the Sergeant of Waterloo, for three nights; traveling long days before they reached Paris on a late winter morning.



Javert stopped at a barber’s shop in order to tidy up, but other than that, wasted no time in seeking out Chabouillet.  It had been years since Javert had been to his office, and he had to ask directions at the front desk of the Prefecture.  After making his way down the immaculate aisles, he was shown in without fanfare by Chabouillet’s secretary.



“Javert!” called out Chabouillet, looking up from his mass of paperwork, and standing to greet him.  He came out from behind his desk, shaking Javert’s hand enthusiastically.  If there had been any doubt about the reception he would get after disappearing in Orgoreyn, it was laid to rest now.  



“Monsieur,” said Javert deferentially.  



“Our ambassador in Mishnory enquired after you.  We were told that you had died in prison of a bad fever, shortly after being arrested for your part in the premier’s assassination attempt.  You must have quite the story to tell.”



“You would scarcely believe it,” said Javert.



Chabouillet gestured expansively.  “Well, seeing as how you are here, I don’t think I will have any choice except to believe it.  Come, sit down.”



“Very well,” said Javert, sitting and launching into a carefully crafted version of the story of his escape and the crossing of the Gobrin Ice which left out Valjean’s role.  



There was a bit of a pause once he finished.  “The devil, Javert.  You are right, I scarcely believe it.  I still don’t understand how you managed to escape that ‘Farm’ of theirs.  They are notorious among those in the know.”



“I feigned my death.  I had been taking ill; it wasn’t hard.  And the weather is hideously cold there.  They set me outside the gates to be disposed of later.  As soon as their backs were turned, I ran for it.”



“And they didn’t think to check whether you were really dead?  Your pulse, or anything?”



“I suppose not.  I held my breath. It was risky, yes, but I managed.”



“And how were you possibly equipped for such a journey?  You must have needed a great deal of supplies.”



“I got them in Turuf, the nearest town.”



Chaouillet’s eyes narrowed.  “With what money?  You managed to steal an entire expedition’s worth of food and gear and got away without anyone noticing?”



“I’m afraid that I had no choice.”



Chabouillet stared at him, consideringly.  



“You certainly won’t be prosecuted for any theft you may have committed in Orgoreyn during the course of your mission.  But this story…Javert, if it were anyone but you…”



Javert ducked his head.  This was going so badly, and he didn’t want to give away anything more than he already had. 



“But I suppose I cannot argue with the fact that here you are.  Please, tell me everything that you know.”






Javert narrowly avoided breathing a big sigh of relief.  He filled in his patron with everything he knew about the political situation in Orgoreyn; that is to say, everything he had known at the time of his arrest.  He told Chabouillet everything about his work in Mishnory:  highlighting his discovery about the Sarf and his role in foiling the assassination attempt of the Orgota premier.  Chabouillet listened attentively, occasionally taking notes.  



As a courtesy, Chabouillet gave him a quick rundown of the current political situation.  Javert was certain he was not telling him everything he knew, but having been away from the newspapers for so long, he was grateful for the update.  It was as he and Valjean had feared:  tensions had grown worse in the wake of the failed assassination attempt, and the two countries were a hair’s breadth away from war.  



Finally, once they had gone over the whole political situation, Javert steeled himself.  “I have a favor to ask, if my service has been valuable to you.”



“Yes?”  Chabouillet was far too astute to agree outright.



“The man Jean Valjean - the man who had been the mayor of Montreuil under the name of Madeleine?”



“Yes?” said Chabouillet, looking slightly exasperated.



“I wish to seek a pardon for him.”  Javert could tell that his words had truly surprised his patron.  



“You - Javert - wish to seek a pardon for this man?  Did you not denounce him to me and request permission to arrest him yourself earlier this year?” 



Javert looked down.  “I may have been mistaken about his capacity for evil, and for good.  He has done so much good for the town of Montreuil since he became mayor.  I have reflected on the matter, and I think that such a man as Valjean is the very reason pardons exist.”



“So you would have me believe that you perhaps spent all that time that you were alone out on the glacier pondering good and evil, and mentally switched Jean Valjean over to the side of good?”



“What else would a man do under those conditions?  What, may I ask, would you do?”



Chabouillet stared at him for a moment longer.  “You know that I don’t have the authority to pardon him, right?”



“I understand.  But a word from you to the king would go a great deal of the way to making it happen, I have no doubt.”



“I can’t make you any promises, but I will see what I can do,” said Chabouillet finally.  



“Thank you, Monsieur,” said Javert, making a slight bow as much to hide his emotion as for the sake of politeness.



The door opened, the secretary popped her head in and made a slight gesture.



“It looks like my next meeting is waiting for me.  But good work, Javert.  It’s great to see you alive and back in Paris, against all the odds.  Stay in town a few days - send word with where you are staying.  I will probably need to follow up with you soon.”



Javert bided his time, restless, in Paris.  He haunted the cafés, reading the newspapers religiously.  He was eager to know what would become of the information that he and Valjean had risked so much to obtain.  Chabouillet sent for him a few times, to clarify some point or another, and one time to tell the entire story of his time in Mishnory to three serious looking people, who took it all in and grilled him on the specifics.  But Javert didn’t think that Chabouillet was telling him everything he knew.  And why would he?  The man was his superior, and was no doubt privy to intelligence reports which would be completely inappropriate to share with a subordinate several steps removed.  So Javert tried to satisfy his curiosity with what information was publicly traded.



And from what Javert could tell, it seemed like things had taken a swing in the right direction.  Chabouillet and his superiors had decided to make Javert’s story known to the public.  The lie hiding in the middle of it - Valjean - made him uncomfortable, but he would have to accept this discomfort.  It was the cost of keeping Valjean free, and so it was a cost he was happy to pay.  Javert worried that in the midst of this, the guards at Pulefan Farm would come forward to tell what had really happened, thus calling attention to Valjean and damaging his own credibility, but time went on and none of the guards came forward.  According to what Valjean had told him, not many of the guards had seen him.  Perhaps those who knew kept quiet out of fear that it would look even worse that a stranger had been able to infiltrate the prison and simply walk out with one of the prisoners.



The story of the man who had stopped the assassination of the premier, and then had been sent to a penal camp, and had then defied all odds to escape it and return to Karhide was in all the Orgota papers.  Apparently quite a few Orgota citizens were furious with the workings of the Sarf, and there was a great deal of unrest in the streets.  A few Orgota tried to argue that here was evidence of Karhide’s complicity - Karhide’s spy had returned to them.  But for the most part, public opinion turned strongly against the Red Faction.  The Sarf operated outside of the sphere of public opinion, but according to Chabouillet, it seemed as though their activity was quieting down, as well.  



The premier of Orgoreyn conducted an investigation into the Sarf, and after a lot of digging by a specially appointed committee, they were able to find evidence that corroborated Javert’s story.  They were able to trace the weapons back to their origins in Karhide, but showed that they had passed hands several times to end up in the possession of the Sarf.  What remained of Yegey’s cover was blown, and while Javert doubted very much that she had been the primary organizer of the assassination attempt, she ended up taking much of the fall for the Sarf’s role in it.  Javert’s newly discovered moral feelings were not sure how to take this.



***



Chabouillet summoned Javert one morning, sending a messenger over to the rooms in the boarding house where he stayed.  He gave Javert a brief update on the situation.  Javert nodded along, wondering how he could ask about what was really occupying his mind.  As it turned out, he needn’t ask.



“Now about Jean Valjean:  I thought hard about the best way to approach it.  I sent a cover letter with the formal petition for a pardon, mentioning your recent service to the king.  He reacted quickly - he is grateful for what you have done for Karhide.  You should be proud, Javert.”



“But the pardon?” he asked anxiously.



“He signed it yesterday,” said Chabouillet, holding out an envelope.  “Should this be mailed to Orgoreyn, or…”



“I’ll see that it gets to him,” said Javert, taking the envelope.  He realized after he had done so that he had as good as admitted to knowing Valjean’s location, but it was too late, and anyway, Valjean was no longer a wanted man.  



Chabouillet studied him for a moment, but apparently decided that he was not going to comment. 



“Is there anything else I can be doing to be of service, here?” asked Javert.  He was getting restless in Paris, eager to get back to Valjean.  If he couldn’t return to him, he would have to be satisfied with some work to occupy his mind.



“Yes, actually, there’s something that I meant to ask of you.  Due to the press surrounding it, your whole mission has been declassified.  Please produce a detailed written report for our records.  It is more critical that it is detailed than that you have it done immediately.  You may stop the report at the point of your arrest.”



Having now two writing tasks ahead of him, Javert stopped at a stationary shop on the way back to the room he was renting, and picked up a parcel of paper, an envelope, and a pen and ink.  In his haste, it had not occurred to him to bring anything to write with to Paris.  He now took a few moments longer to peruse the paper than he otherwise would have, wondering if there was any particular kind that was more suitable for sending to one’s lover.  In the end, though, he decided it wouldn’t matter to either him or Valjean, and picked simple white paper.  



When he got back to his room, he sat down at the small, battered desk, and began to write to Valjean.  He didn’t have the art of eloquence in the written word, and he did not know how a letter to his lover should go.  He supposed straightforward was the way to go here.  He wrote a brief summary of the political situation - as much as Javert felt it would be wise to share in writing.  No more than Valjean would be able to read in a newspaper, but then again, he did not know if Valjean would be able to get a newspaper in his current circumstances.



“But that’s not what I’m writing to tell you, nor is it why I have the nerve to write to you at all (for you must see what a risk this is, and that is why I did not write to you sooner).  At my request, M. Chabouillet was able to secure an official pardon for you.  I did not want to say anything until it was an accomplished feat, but now I am writing to you straight away so that you will not be in the dark for another moment.  



“Make sure to keep your head low until I get there with the official paperwork.  We can get you out of any trouble you get into in the meantime, if need be, but I would rather not have it come to that.  Not that you should be going anywhere or doing anything with your leg the way it is.  I only hope to hear soon that it is healing well.  



Please take care of yourself, and I will return as soon as is possible.  For now, I am still occupied with some tasks for Chabouillet.”  



After a moment of deliberation, he signed it “Yours, Javert.”  He read the letter over again, nodded slightly in approval, and folded it to fit in one of the envelopes.  Not wanting to lose a moment, he slipped back out to the street to find a post office.  The postal system in Paris was second to none, so Javert had very little trouble finding an office where he could drop off the letter.  



Mail between cities was slow during the Karhidish winter, and Javert knew that there was a chance he would make it back before his letter arrived, but he had to try.  He could not keep this news to himself.  He thought effusively of all the freedom they would have, to live as they chose now, beyond anything that he had expected.  



He returned back to his rooms, and began working on his report.  He hoped that the sooner he finished it, the sooner he would be able to return to Valjean.



***



Javert ended up staying in Paris for two weeks.  Another person might have found the stay in the big city exciting, especially after so long away from civilization, but Javert was indifferent.  Chabouillet had, on their second meeting, given him his back pay for the entire time since he had left Montreuil - he apparently considered it worth paying Javert for the time he had spent in prison and on the journey home.  It felt like a small fortune, but Javert did not live it up.  



Javert took all his meals at a small café right next to where he was staying, where the staff quickly learned to recognize him. Having no particular task to accomplish in the rest of the city, it might as well not have been there. 



He ventured out into a bookstore once, and he inevitably wondered what Valjean would pick out.  As he gazed at the orderly rows of spines, he picked his way through several novels before finally selecting one that promised adventure and romance.  It was with a great deal of unnecessary embarrassment that Javert paid for the book, and it occupied his leisure hours in the city.  



Eventually, after Javert had handed in his written report and it had been a while since Chabouillet had called him in to talk with another group of people, Chabouillet called him in one last time.



“Our thanks again for your work on this mission.  You understand, of course, that any further work for you as a secret agent is entirely out of the question.”



“Of course,” said Javert, who had no wish to go back to Orgoreyn anyway.  



“I believe that I can arrange a transfer for you, to work here in Paris.  Not starting right away, but surely we can find the right position for you.”



His words came as a shock to Javert.  Any thoughts of what he would do beyond completing his mission had been vague, in large part because for so long he hadn’t really expected to survive long enough to finish it.  There was a time when Javert would have relished this opportunity.  To get beyond the petty disputes of small town Montreuil, and to be able to really make a name for himself in Paris…was this not what every police officer would want?  But he realized several things now:  he had no wish to be parted from Valjean for any longer than was necessary, and he had no idea what Valjean would want from life, now that he was a free man.  When they were on the ice, they had never spoken of it. 



“You do me a great honor.  But may I have some time to think it over, monsieur?” said Javert finally.  



Chabouillet looked surprised.  He sat back in his seat, studying Javert.  “Yes, of course.  Montreuil is your home, after all.  But write to me, and a position is yours.”



“Thank you, very much.”



“We have no more need of you here for this case.  You are welcome to return to your post in Montreuil.”



Javert said his thanks absentmindedly, said a polite goodbye to Chabouillet, and showed himself out of the now-familiar office.  He wasted no time in packing up his few belongings from the rooms where he was staying, taking his leave of the boarding house manager, and booking his travel back to Montreuil.



He spent his time on the return journey considering Chabouillet’s offer, and what prospects the future held.  If he were being completely honest, he wasn’t sure that he wanted to continue in the police.  He was not free of the painful moral questions which had so overwhelmed him on the ice.  Although he had managed to push them aside for the time, he recognized that he was rapidly approaching the time when he would have to address them.



But most of all, on the trip back, he thought of Valjean.  He hoped above all things that he found Valjean well when he arrived back in Montreuil.  There was always the chance that the wound had gone bad, or that he had taken ill.  Valjean had not been in top physical shape when he was shot, as a result of the months of privation on the ice, and Javert had little idea of how such a wound would heal in a healthy person. Having not heard back from Valjean, Javert could do nothing except hope.  



***



Three weeks after he had taken his leave from Valjean, Javert eagerly made his way up to the porch of Fantine’s small cottage in the middle of the day.  He had the impression that the woman worked from her home and would probably be there.  He gathered his nerve before knocking, desperately hoping that he would find Valjean well.  He was conscious of standing on a metaphorical threshold, as well as Fantine’s actual threshold:  once he crossed, he would know Valjean’s fate, and perhaps would no longer be able to live in hope.  



Fantine answered the door, and her relaxed look told him all that he needed to know.  Valjean had lived, and nothing else mattered.  



“You’re back,” she said with a smile.  “Come in, he’s asleep now.”



“Is he -” Javert didn’t know what to say.



“He’s recovering well.  I see you couldn’t even be bothered to put your things down before coming over here.”



Javert became conscious of the heavy backpack he carried with him.  “I -” he started.



“It’s fine,” said Fantine.  “In fact, I’m pleased.  I can tell that he loves you, you know.  I don’t know you well, but it would be a terrible shame for him if you didn’t love him back.  I had my doubts when you left, but he assured me that he himself had insisted that you go.”



Javert was taken aback and didn’t know what to say.  “Thank you for your concern for him.”



Fantine smiled.  “Go wake him up - I know that he will be happy to see you.”



“All right,” he said, trying to downplay his eagerness to see Valjean despite Fantine’s words. 



H
e knocked quietly on the door as he opened it.  Apparently the laudanum hadn’t deepened Valjean’s sleep much, as he stirred as Javert stepped into the room.  



“Javert!  You’re back!” Valjean exclaimed as he scrambled up to a seated position. 



Javert was terribly conscious of Fantine’s eyes on him. 



“As you see,” he said calmly, but with a racing heart.



“You must have a lot to talk about,” said Fantine.  “I’ll leave you to it.”  And she left, shutting the door behind her.  



“First off, the most important thing,” said Javert, swinging the backpack off his back and rummaging through it.  Tucked away for safekeeping in the novel, he found the envelope he was looking for.  “Your pardon.”



Valjean took the envelope, wide-eyed.  He carefully tore it open, rough frost-chapped hands making their way through the fine paper.   



“This is…Javert…” Valjean started, but then began to weep.  Tears ran down his face as he read the short letter of pardon.  Javert sat down beside him on the bed, and, unsure what to do, placed a hand on his shoulder.  He felt Valjean’s muscles tense and ebb as he wept in great sobs.  



“What - what do we do now?” Valjean was making a visible effort to pull himself together.  



“I was thinking about it - you don’t have anywhere to stay, is that right?”  Javert was unsure what had happened to Valjean’s property after his flight to Orgoreyn, but the small home near the factory - Valjean might still be the lawful owner of it.  



“I’m honestly not sure.  I don’t think so.  Fantine was telling me that the factory had been seized by the state, and I rented the house by the month, so I imagine I’ve long since been turned out.” 



Javert had used the majority of his savings to pay for six month’s rent in advance when leaving for Orgoreyn, and expected to find the apartment still in his possession.  He didn’t have the key, though, having lost it when imprisoned in Mishnory.  They couldn’t go there directly.  



“Let’s go to the inn, spend the night there, get ourselves sorted out,” Javert said.  “We can figure out where to go from there.  Whether you still have property, or whether you - want to come and live with me.”  



“I - I think I would like that,” said Valjean, without making it much clearer to Javert which part he would like.  



Javert leaned in and kissed Valjean, crossing his body and placing a hand on his opposite shoulder.  The salt of his tears tasted strong, but Javert savored the emotion they represented.  What Javert was feeling was an unfamiliar emotion - one that he hadn’t felt during the time on the ice while the threat of death hung constantly over their heads, or in Karhide, when first Valjean’s freedom and then his very life were in danger.  Javert might have described it as “elation,” had he managed to hit on that word.  



He released Valjean reluctantly.  “How do you want to do this?” Javert asked.  “I can pull you home on the sledge, and wouldn’t that be an odd sight.  But I simply cannot carry you the entire way home, and I doubt you are walking yet.  Are you walking yet?”



“Not well.”



“I’ll see if we can get some crutches from the doctor later.  You won’t be able to make it all the way to town on those, though, and in the meantime, I think it’s going to have to be the sledge.”  



“Agreed,” said Valjean.  



Javert stood, swinging his backpack back on and reaching a hand down to Valjean.  Even after the ordeal of the ice, the man was surprisingly heavy as Javert pulled him up.  He offered a shoulder to Valjean, who gingerly accepted, gradually putting more weight on Javert.  He took a hopping step forward, wincing very slightly, but noticeably to Javert’s sharp gaze.  They made their way through the door, walking slowly.  



“Where are you two going?”  Fantine looked up from her pile of shirts.  



“We don’t want to intrude on your hospitality any further,” said Javert to Fantine.  



Valjean nodded, and added “Thank you, for all that you’ve done for me.”



“Don’t mention it.  I know you would do the same…”



Valjean shifted slightly.  “About that.  There’s no need to dissemble anymore.  Javert has secured a pardon for me, and I’m a free man.”



The unfeigned joy on Fantine’s face warmed Javert towards her.  



“A pardon - congratulations!” she said. “I’ve never met a man as kind as you; surely you deserve your freedom if anyone does.”



“You’re very kind to say so,” said Valjean, starting to flush.



“He’s heavy, though, and I need to get him going,” said Javert.



“You’ll write, perhaps, to tell me how you are getting on?” Fantine asked Valjean.



“Of course, if you wish it.”



After a few more such pleasantries, Javert helped Valjean out of the small house, and onto the sledge which had been left in the yard.  Valjean settled down onto it, perching on the remaining assorted gear, and soon Javert was off, dragging the sledge and Valjean behind him.  



Javert went into the inn alone, booking a room.  Although Valjean was no longer at risk of arrest, he hoped that they would be able to make it into the inn with no one recognizing them.  There was no need to invite trouble and attention.  He paid using the money that Chabouillet had given him, and it was a balm to his pride to be able to pay for the two of them for once.



They made their way to the room, Javert again offering his shoulder to Valjean to allow him to hop down the hall.  Valjean didn’t say anything, but Javert could tell that he was in pain from the move from Fantine’s cottage.  



Valjean opened the door with his free hand, and Javert slammed it shut behind them and directed him to the bed.  He gently set Valjean down, helping him more than was strictly necessary.  He helped him out of his coat, setting it with care on the coat tree by the door. 



“Your shirt?” he asked, hoping.  Valjean slipped out of the shirt, and handed it to him.  



“Damn, it is good to see you again,” said Javert, taking in the sight of Valjean shirtless.  He crowded up against Valjean, before remembering to take it easy around his injured leg.  



“Our first time doing this in a proper bed,” observed Javert.  Then, realizing the pressure he was putting on Valjean, who was no doubt still in pain, “but we don’t have to do anything but sleep.”



“Javert,” Valjean breathed in between kisses.  “You had better not be teasing me.  It’s the afternoon - I’m not ready to sleep.”



“Hmm, but what are you ready for, that’s the question.”  Javert looked over Valjean, this time noting the stiff, uncomfortable position of his leg.  Positions and acts would be limited at this stage in Valjean’s recovery.  



“I’m ready for 

you

.”



Valjean struggled out of his pants, giving a little grunt of pain as he went, but soon he was naked in front of Javert.  



“You, too; come on,” he said to Javert, who did not have to be told twice.  While he was undressing, Valjean scooted onto the bed into a comfortable lying position.  



Javert joined him on the bed, lying on his side and pressing against Valjean’s right side and good leg.  He moved up to kiss Valjean, warm and wanting.  They made out on the comfortable bed slowly and leisurely, skin touching skin.  Javert felt his body respond to Valjean, but it could wait.  He would show Valjean how patient he could be. 



He nuzzled his face into Valjean’s throat, tilting up Valjean’s head as he went.  



“You have no idea how much I missed you,” said Javert, placing a single kiss on Valjean’s throat, where he liked it.  “You have no idea,” a kiss, “how worried I was about you.”  A kiss.  “There I was, alone in Paris, surrounded entirely with thoughts of you.”  He kissed Valjean’s clavicle, reaching across his chest to rest his arm possessively across him.  “I didn’t know if you were alive or dead.  For all I knew, you could have been imprisoned.  I’ve been so worried about you.”



Valjean gasped as Javert punctuated his words with little nips to his throat, not quite hard enough to hurt.  He stroked Javert’s shoulders silently by way of response.  



“I didn’t know that I could feel so bad, so worried,” said Javert.  Javert hardly knew what had come over him.  He wanted Valjean to understand, to see the vulnerability he had felt when torn away from Valjean’s side.  “It didn’t feel alright until I saw you again.  Not until I knew that you were alive and free.”



He sank lower, kissing his way down Valjean’s shoulders and chest, down to his stomach which tensed slightly as Javert turned his attention to it. 



“I didn’t mean to -” started Valjean.



“Shh.  I want to show you how much I missed you; how much I was thinking of you.” 



He stroked Valjean’s cock, light and teasing.  



“Thinking of this,” Javert said, licking at Valjean’s cock before swallowing down as much as he could.  He crouched over Valjean, making sure not to put any weight on his legs.  



Javert was getting more skilled at sucking Valjean off.  He found that he liked it better each time he tried it.  He set the pace this time, holding Valjean still with one large hand on either hipbone.  He took the opportunity to tease, slipping his lips down the sensitive shaft before taking the head of his cock in his mouth again.  



“Javert - ah - your mouth!  You are so good at that.”  Valjean’s praise went right to Javert’s prick, and he moaned around the eager flesh in his mouth.  



Valjean laid his own hands on top of Javert’s, gripping them firmly.  The barest hint of restraint was enough to drive him wild.  Energy between them built, as Javert tried to focus all that he was feeling on his task.  Valjean began to tense further under Javert’s hands.  



“I never imagined - beautiful -” 



His grip on Javert tightened, almost viselike, but nothing hurt - nothing could hurt Javert now as Valjean came into his mouth.  



Still achingly hard, Javert planted one last kiss on Valjean’s prick before making his way back up the way he had come, kissing, tasting, and nuzzling as he went.  He came to rest on his side again, leaning on his arm next to Valjean, who turned his head to watch him.  He kissed Javert, who had seemed to be waiting for his permission to kiss back.  



“Now you,” said Valjean.  “I can’t give you much right now, but what I can, is yours.”  



Javert hardly needed the invitation.  He wrapped his leg around Valjean’s good leg, pressing in and grinding down.



“Easy,” Valjean said.  He wrapped his hand around Javert’s cock, with that gentleness of his which was almost painful.  He began to move his hand, and his touch was like a slow caress.  



Javert willed himself to be patient, not to beg.  



“I missed you, too,” said Valjean.  “I worried I might not see you again.”  



“But -” Javert was confused, but having trouble expressing himself with Valjean’s hand on him.  



“I worried that you would…come to your senses, change your mind, while you were away.”  His tone was almost conversational as he continued to work Javert.



“No -” Javert gasped.  The idea that he would leave Valjean - but then he couldn’t express himself well as the pleasure built up.  He pushed into Valjean, burying his head against Valjean’s shoulder.  



Valjean shifted his hand, letting go and clumsily pushing back to grab Javert’s ass and pulling him in tight, while his other hand came across and resumed work on his cock.  Javert groaned in perfect contentment.  He felt perfectly held by Valjean:  safe, and loved, and ever more increasingly aroused.  



He savored the feel of Valjean’s rough hands, gentle against sensitive skin.  How much better it felt than his own hand.  He rocked against Valjean in small movements - all that Valjean’s grip on him would allow.  He didn’t want more freedom.  Not from Valjean, who was looking at him with intent concentration and just the hint of a smile.  Javert met his eyes, and watched as the smile deepened into the lines around Valjean’s eyes.  Valjean never stopped the rhythm of his hand on Javert, pumping as Javert gasped and groaned and rapidly reached a climax.  He remembered too late to try to muffle his cries as he came against Valjean.



Wordlessly, he burrowed into Valjean’s side.  Hopefully there was no one around to hear at this hour; hopefully there was no one who would remember the town’s former inspector disappearing into the room with another man, only to hear his cries of ecstasy.  But he would not allow himself to dwell on worries for long.  Not with Valjean still against him, a sense of peace pervading over them.



“I love you, you know,” said Javert, studying Valjean.  He had not forgotten their words from earlier.  How would they fare together when there was no mission, no Ice, just their love binding them together?



He helped Valjean into the shower, telling him to enjoy it while he could, since his apartment didn’t have its own shower.  Once they were both clean and warm, they sunk back down onto the bed.



“Oh, I have something you might like,” said Javert, getting up and rummaging through his backpack.  He found the novel he had read, and held it out to Valjean.  Valjean accepted it, turning the book over in his hands.



“What’s this?”



“A novel,” said Javert sheepishly, rubbing a hand through his messy wet hair.  “I read it in Paris, and I thought that you might like it.”



Valjean looked at him as though he were something marvelous.  “I have no doubt that I will.  What did you think of it?”  



“I rather liked it,” said Javert, who had.  “The story of a naval captain who wins the heart of a beautiful maiden.  It would have been better had he ended up with one of his companions in adventure, though, in my opinion.”



Valjean beamed, though whether it was at the fact that Javert had read the book at all, or the nature of his criticism of it, Javert did not know.



They settled into bed, Valjean reading and Javert simply savoring the company.  He was exhausted from the trip to Paris, and sleepy from sex.  Gradually he dozed off next to Valjean, napping for several hours.    



When the time came, Javert went out to collect dinner from the kitchen of the inn, and brought it back on a tray to their room.  They sat on the bed eating, and in the small space of the bed, they could almost believe that they were back in the tent again, where they had come to mean so much to each other.



***



Javert left the inn in the morning to run some errands, leaving the wounded Valjean behind to finish his book.  First things first, he thought, making his way to the town’s police station.  Despite the time he had been away, his feet made it there almost of their own volition, with no input from Javert’s brain.  As he made his way inside the office, which was sparsely furnished and nearly empty at this hour, he found Rivette sitting at the desk he had once occupied.  



“Inspector Rivette?”



The man glanced up, and recognized Javert immediately.  Apparently he must not be too changed, he thought to himself.  



“Javert!” he cried.  “None of us were sure if you were ever coming back.”  He got up, walked over to where Javert had entered the room, clasped Javert’s hand with both of his, and shook it warmly.  



“Here I am.”



If Javert were being honest, he had scarcely thought of Rivette in the time that he was gone, except to remember that he was supposed to be sending him letters in order to transmit messages to his superiors.  But he supposed that Rivette was the closest thing that he had to a friend in Montreuil, and he was happy to see him now. 



He filled in Rivette on what had happened during the rest of his mission.  Rivette nodded along at first, saying that he had read much of what Javert was telling him in the newspapers.  He was amazed by the same slightly altered version of the story of the Gobrin Ice which Javert had told Chabouillet.  Javert then got to the real reason for his visit.  



“But I didn’t come here just to chat,” Javert said.  “There’s something important I need to go over with you.  Our former mayor, Madeleine, the one who was revealed to be the convict Jean Valjean -”



“Yes?” asked Rivette when Javert paused slightly.



“He has been pardoned by the king.  He has made his way to Montreuil, and I trust that you will inform your men that he is not to be arrested or harassed in any way.”  



“That is a…certainly a lucky thing for him - do you know why they pardoned him?”  



Javert looked at Rivette cautiously. “Just between you and I, it was at my request.  Valjean had not thought to put in a petition for his own pardon, but I know a worthy man when I see one.”



“But why?  I hope you will forgive me for saying so, monsieur, but it never seemed to me like you liked the man.”



“You overstep yourself,” said Javert, annoyed as much by the thought that he had apparently been open in his disrespect for a superior as by the thought of having ever disliked Valjean.  



“I’m sorry,” said Rivette quickly.



“It’s not your business, but I came to see that he was a good man, who did a lot of good for the town.  His pardon should be announced in the legal section of the papers anytime now, if it hasn’t been already.”



“It will be as you say.  Valjean will not be bothered by the police.”  



“Good.”



“And what do you plan to do?  Do you have more missions taking you out of town, or will you be back on the police force here?”



Javert thought about Chabouillet’s offer of work in Paris, and about all he had felt about the prospect.  “Further spy work is completely out of the question for me - my cover has been destroyed completely by the visibility this case received in the papers. For now, I intend to return to work.”



After all, Javert was desperate to be making his own money again.  He had lived for too long off of Valjean’s money and the kindness of Fantine.  The sum he had earned from his mission would not last terribly long were he not to return to work.  



“We will be glad to have you back!  You will of course retake your old position.” Rivette was beaming - his words were not empty ones.  It had not been his ambition to rise past Javert.  “I was only appointed on a temporary basis.”



“Very well.  I’m sure you have done the job credit.  I will require a few days to get everything sorted out, and then I will be able to start again.  I would like a full report from you on everything of importance that has gone on in my absence.”



“Of course.  But it’s been quiet here - no major goings-on that have needed my attention.”



Javert nodded his approval.  He had not noticed any major changes to the station - as he had suspected, Rivette was not one to make waves.  



“I’ll see you three days from now, then,” said Javert.



After leaving the police station, Javert went to visit his landlady, who lived just down the street from the apartment she rented to him.  He let her know that he was back in town, she inquired about his health, and he took her copy of the key to his apartment by the locksmith’s shop to have a copy made.  He was a bit embarrassed by the prospect of Valjean seeing the small rooms, which must be much less than what Valjean had grown used to during his time as mayor.  He had never been inside the mayor’s home, but he listened to the rumors about his home with interest (as he had listened to all rumors about Madeleine with interest).  Here, the rumors contradicted one another, with some saying that Madeleine lived very simply, while others would have that his home was elaborate and expensively furnished. Well.  It mattered very little at this point, as Valjean’s most recent standards for living had been camping for months on the Gobrin Ice.  Surely he would be able to survive for now in Javert’s modest apartment.  



After the locksmith was finished with the key, Javert went by the building to open up his apartment.  He glanced around with a slight feeling of despair at the dust on every surface and the cobwebs in the corners, smelling the musty air.  He made a halfhearted attempt with a broom and a rag, opening the windows wide.  It was cold out, but with the fires out for so long, it made little difference in the temperature to have the cold fresh air blow through the place while he worked.  It would have to do for now, he thought.



On the way back to the hotel, he stopped by the carpenter’s workshop and requested that he make a pair of crutches for Valjean.  Valjean would no doubt appreciate the greater independence that these would allow him.  



He finally made his way back to the inn, where they had decided to stay for another night.  Javert wanted to make sure that word had spread about Valjean’s pardon before he tried to take him through the town to his apartment.  The sight of him helping the other man along would no doubt draw eyes.  Valjean greeted him warmly, and welcomed him into the warmth of their temporary shared bed.  



***



There was one thing that Javert wanted to take care of even before officially returning to work.  



 He went back to the police station and told Rivette of his plans, requesting backup.  Rivette was more than happy to help once the situation was explained.  That evening, he returned to the tiny cabin where he had last seen Brevet, accompanied by two gendarmes, and banged on the door.  



“Open up!” yelled Javert.  



Finally, when it seemed that the door could not hold out any longer, it opened and there stood Brevet.



“You are under arrest. Hands out,” snapped Javert.



“We had an agreement,” hissed Brevet furiously under his breath, not moving.  



“If I lied, then I lied!  Goddamnit, you shot a man, in cold blood.”  Javert’s voice only grew louder as he got more worked up.  



Brevet had nothing to say for himself, and was apparently unwilling to compound his crime by attacking Javert.  As the gendarmes stepped forward with the handcuffs, he allowed himself to be cuffed and escorted out into the cold.  It didn’t occur to Javert to make sure that his prisoner had a coat on him, but if it had, he probably would have ignored the thought anyway.  He was seething at Brevet.  Valjean’s survival was not enough to make Javert simply forgive and forget.  



His newly reshaped conscience bothered him not one bit as Javert hauled Brevet back to the police station.  If only all cases were this simple, he had time to think as the small party returned to the station house with Brevet.  It was with a deep satisfaction in his work which he had not known for a long time that he returned to the hotel.



***



The next morning, Valjean sipped a cup of coffee while reading the town’s weekly newspaper.  Javert had picked up a copy of the paper when out earlier today. This was another luxury he had missed during their expedition, and he let the warmth of the coffee fill him as much as the contents of the news fed him.  The headline in the small town of Montreuil was that the former mayor had returned with a pardon.  The editors must have rushed to be able to fit that in before printing, Valjean realized with gratitude.  Their wish to capitalize on the news helped to ensure his safety.  As word spread, he could now walk about freely with very little risk of a repeat of what had happened with Brevet.  



He wanted to savor this leisurely morning.  He knew that Javert typically worked long hours, and would not always be able to spend this much time with him.  In addition to the newspaper and coffee, Javert had brought a breakfast tray from the inn’s kitchen, which they turned their attention to now.  Javert placed it on the bed between them, broke off a piece of bread, and handed it to Valjean.  Valjean accepted, pleased by Javert’s consideration, and broke off a piece for Javert.  He couldn’t say what possessed him, but he brought it to Javert’s mouth.  Javert accepted, licking the crumbs from Valjean’s fingers carefully.  



Without taking his eyes off of Javert, Valjean broke off another piece of bread and again offered it to Javert.  He took it slowly, in a way that was undeniably sensual.  He licked and sucked at Valjean’s fingers, exploring them attentively.  Valjean spread a bit of apricot jam on the next piece of the crusty bread.  Javert’s eyes flickered shut with pleasure as he took the bread.  The jam had smeared a bit against Valjean’s hand, giving Javert even more of an excuse to lick him clean.  



They continued to feed one another, Javert offering Valjean some pieces of bread and cheese in return.  But while Valjean appreciated the gesture, he very much doubted that he radiated pure passion the way Javert did.  The look on Javert’s face stirred him, and he drew him in close for a kiss.  They made out for a while, more worked up than Valjean would have thought possible over breakfast. 



Eventually, Javert broke free.  “We should be going,” he said reluctantly.  “We don’t have the room all day, and we need to head over to my place.”



“Are you glad to be going home at last?” asked Valjean.  He felt slightly dazed from all the pleasant sensations which had been suddenly pulled away from him, but was going to try and have a reasonable conversation with Javert.  



“Glad enough,” said Javert, sitting up straight but still staring at Valjean.  



“Finally seeing where you live,” said Valjean.  



“It’s really not much,” said Javert.  “We don’t have to stay there for long.  Just while you get your footing back in the town.  Or…”



“Or?”



“Or whatever you end up deciding to do.  Even with your pardon, might you not prefer to go to Paris, or another large city where you can really make your mark?”  Javert stood up, and began carefully repacking his backpack, not looking at Valjean, but with an air that clearly showed he was listening.  



“I’ve scarcely thought anything about what I will do now that I’m pardoned.  It was a possibility that I just hadn’t planned for.”  Valjean had been blown away by Javert’s efforts on his behalf.  The idea that he was pardoned still seemed surreal to him. He hoped that time and peace would help him gracefully accept the good fortune which had come his way.



“You are welcome to stay with me for as long as it takes for you to figure it out,” said Javert.



“Thank you.”  Valjean was in fact greatly looking forward to staying with Javert.  During his time in Fantine’s home, she had done her best to make him feel welcome, but he had nevertheless felt like an imposition.  He hoped that he would not feel this way in Javert’s home.



Javert looked almost a bit hurt, although Valjean couldn’t guess why.  Perhaps he had wanted a greater reaction.  “Come on,” he said.  



With that, they gathered up their things and vacated the hotel room.   



They then made one final trip on the sledge that had accompanied them so far:  from the inn to Javert’s apartment was nearly a mile in the spread-out town, and Valjean would not be able to make the trip on foot.  Vehicles for hire were rare at this time of year, and Javert had thought that it would make more sense to simply go themselves.  Valjean noticed with deep embarrassment that every eye was drawn to the odd sight of a man towing another large man on a sledge down the street, and they continued to stare once they realized who it was. 



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert watched with anxiety as he helped Valjean into his apartment.  Valjean looked around, and Javert felt as if he were seeing his own home through Valjean’s eyes after having been away for so long.  The space was small.  There were doors leading from the open main room to a small kitchen and a bathroom.  A large chest of drawers took the place of a closet and held Javert’s clothes and linens.  There was a bed shoved under the window, where the morning light helped encourage him to wake. There was a single armchair next to the fireplace, and a table and chair which did double duty as a dining table and desk for when Javert brought work home or had rare personal correspondence.  The room spoke of a deeply solitary nature.  

There was very little in the way of decoration.  Javert had a map of the town pinned to the wall, which he had consulted frequently when he had first begun his duties in Montreuil.  It had stayed long after he had learned his way around town by heart due to its reassuring orderliness.  A small bookcase neatly organizing the books that Javert owned completed the decoration of the rooms.

“Please, have a seat,” Javert said, directing Valjean into the armchair.  He supposed he should offer Valjean tea, or wine, or whatever one offered one’s lover when he had just crossed the threshold to live in one’s home.  But his kitchen was absolutely empty.  It had not occurred to him the other day to go to the market so that he would have something to offer Valjean - hospitality was not Javert’s strong suit.

“Stay a moment, while I bring our things in,” Javert said.  Once he had done so, he drew up the study wooden chair which sat next to the table.  He methodically set up a few logs and kindling in the fireplace, and started a fire with a practiced air, before sitting down next to Valjean.  

“Are you comfortable?” asked Javert, still trying to divine what Valjean thought of the small apartment.  “The fire should take off soon.”

“Very,” said Valjean.  

He looked contented enough, Javert supposed.  Well, there was no time like the present to dive into what he wanted to say.  “We alluded to this earlier in the hotel, but it’s time to figure out what we are doing.”

“What do you mean?”

“You and I.  What are we doing together?”

“I should think that is obvious.  I’ve already moved in here with you, haven’t I?” said Valjean with a smile.

“Well, it doesn’t have to be permanent.  In a way, this feels like the continuation of our journey on the ice.  You have nowhere else to go, so of course you may stay here.”  

“I want to stay for as long as you will have me.  I’m with you for the long haul, Javert.”  Valjean paused for a moment.  “And so far it has been a long haul indeed.”  The joke was uncharacteristic of him, and Javert wasn’t particularly amused.

“Fate threw us together on the Ice, but what I’m asking is whether, as doors open back up for you, you will want to continue what we started out there.”

“Of course I do - I will,” stated Valjean.

“I worry that you will realize what an unbearable companion I am,” muttered Javert.  As they spoke, it was becoming clearer and more real to him how fragile what they had was, now that Valjean could simply choose to leave at any minute.  And he was finding it increasingly hard to believe that Valjean would continue to wake up and choose him, Javert, every day.  

Valjean laughed softly.  “I doubt I would ever find you unbearable.  Stubborn, perhaps; hotheaded.  This can be easily borne.”

Javert searched his eyes, and finding no disingenuousness, relaxed a bit for the moment.  “I know that it isn’t much, but I want you to think of this place as your own from now on.” 

“I have no doubt we will be very happy here.”  

“I will be going back to work soon.  What do you intend to do with your time?  Or have you not given that much thought yet?”

“I’ve had plenty of time to think about it while you were away in Paris.  I still intend to keep working on my resins project.  It will be easier now that I can work openly without having to focus on concealing my identity.”

“A noble effort, but as you can see there is not much room for that here.”

“I may rent a separate workspace.  The odors alone are unpleasant, and there’s the matter of storing all the raw materials.  No, working on it in here is out of the question.”

This was a relief, if Javert were being honest.  Although not particular about his home, he would prefer that there was no manufacturing taking place there.  Now that the essentials had been covered (Valjean intended to stay with Javert, Valjean did not intend to make their home into a workshop), Javert felt that he could relax.  The conversation took a lighter turn. Javert told Valjean how long he had been living there, and gave a brief overview of the other residents of the building.  He asked what Valjean’s home had been like, and was surprised to find out that it was not much different from this apartment which they now shared.  It would be a mental adjustment, Javert realized, to think of it as their apartment rather than as his own apartment, but that was a small price to pay for Valjean’s companionship.  

Soon enough, Valjean was settled in with one of Javert’s books, one by Plato.  Javert set off for the market to bring home food for them, and to pick up the crutches from the carpenter.  He also wished to surprise Valjean with a new book or two - after all, the man’s recovery must be burdensome enough without boredom setting in, and regardless of what Valjean said, Javert could not imagine that he would be that diverting of a companion.  He found himself rushing through his errands in his eagerness to return home.  

***

Later that week, a second armchair and dining chair had joined their counterparts in Javert’s apartment.  They were mismatched, but that mattered not at all to the room’s happy inhabitants.  But both chairs were sitting empty, as Javert had already joined Valjean in bed.  

They lay side by side kissing long and slow, Valjean putting his weight on his good side.  Javert ran a hand through Valjean’s hair.  Their clothes had already been discarded, but a warm fire burned in the fireplace and there was no need to rush anything.

Javert gently pushed Valjean onto his back, and pushed himself up and leaned over him, to continue kissing him.  He stroked a steady line down Valjean, ending at his cock, and stroking it until Valjean was fully hard.  Javert teased and toyed with him for a little while longer, experimenting with only a light touch.  At first he wanted to see if he could make Valjean beg for it, but he quickly realized that he himself would be begging for permission to go down on Valjean before Valjean did any such thing.  Instead he granted himself the pleasure, sliding down Valjean’s body without putting any weight on his bad leg.  Valjean gently grabbed onto his hair.  

Javert let his eyes close, fully focused on his task.  He felt as aroused as he always did by the act, but this time he was also feeling a growing sense of security, being held in place by Valjean’s firm grip on him.  He was nearly in a trance when Valjean let him go and spoke up.  

“Ah, Javert?”  

“Mmm?”  Javert felt a sinking moment of disappointment.  Had he let Valjean down in some way?

“Would you please, ah - turn around?”  Valjean said.  

Javert complied:  he made little secret of how much he loved it when Valjean took control.  If anything, he wouldn’t mind if Valjean were more forceful.  He repositioned himself so that his knees straddled Valjean’s shoulders, hands on Valjean’s hips. 

“Good,” said Valjean, placing a hand on Javert’s thigh, and Javert wished for a moment that that one simple word didn’t feel so good to him.  Was it possible for the word to reverberate through him?  He was embarrassed by how much he wanted Valjean to think he was good, both here in their bed and in the broader sense.  He wanted to be someone who could deserve Valjean.  He returned his mouth to Valjean’s cock with a sense of relief.

As Javert continued to suck and lick at Valjean, he was startled when Valjean took hold of his ass.  Valjean kneaded the muscle, and Javert squirmed slightly, trying to stay focused on his task while Valjean kneaded and rubbed.  In his excitement, Javert found himself speeding up.  He desperately wanted some friction against his own cock, but it seemed that Valjean was not yet ready to provide that, and Javert would not dream of taking control from Valjean.  

Javert was surprised when Valjean entered him with a single finger.  It was enough to really get a reaction from Javert in his hyper-aroused state.  Valjean had clearly wet it with spit, and was moving very gently.  

“All right?” he asked.

Javert took his mouth off of him for just long enough to say yes. 

“Good.”

Javert tried to focus on Valjean despite the pressure inside him. 

“Ready for more?” Valjean asked.  

“Yes.”

Javert felt another finger push into him.  The feeling of being filled in this way by Valjean was thrilling.  Javert was caught between the satisfying weight of Valjean’s cock in his mouth and the insistent press of his fingers in his ass.  

Valjean began to thrust gently with two fingers, and Javert gave a long, drawn-out moan around his cock.  Javert hoped that Valjean could feel his vocalizations; that every vibration of every sound became a thrum of pleasure that passed back into Valjean.  Valjean didn’t seem to be in any hurry.  He slowly experimented with different ways of touching Javert, thrusting so slowly and gently that it tried Javert’s patience.  He curved his fingers slightly, and the sudden sensation made Javert gasp and squirm, temporarily looking up from his work.  

“You like that?” asked Valjean, and Javert noticed smugly that he was sounding a little out of breath himself.   

“You can see that I do,” said Javert. 

For answer, Valjean did it again, a bit harder.  Javert moaned, then silenced himself by swallowing Valjean’s cock back down.  He liked the idea of showing Valjean that he could still pleasure him even while he himself was being penetrated.  The next few moments were intense, and Javert only hoped that he was bringing Valjean as much pleasure as he was receiving.

By the time that Valjean brought his other hand around to Javert’s cock, and finally,  finally  gave him some relief, Javert was trembling so much that he was about to fall over.  He had no chance - he could not last like this.  He came on Valjean with a cry, and nearly collapsed.  Belatedly, he remembered that he had not yet finished with Valjean, but Valjean was nearly there himself.  Javert, persistent, returned his attention to Valjean’s cock.  He felt Valjean tense up and knew that he was close, and took it as deeply as he could manage. 

“Yes,” Valjean hissed as he came deep in Javert’s mouth. 

Javert laid down to the side of Valjean, blinking at him but not saying a word.  After a moment, Javert wordlessly got up, wiped his mouth, and got a washcloth for Valjean.  He settled back in next to Valjean.  

“That was incredible,” he finally said.  “How do you know how to do that?”  

“It’s easy when you take it so beautifully,” said Valjean.  

Javert didn’t know what to say to that.  To think that after all their past together, Valjean could still see the good in him, even the beautiful - for he knew that he was not a beautiful man - well.  Sometimes Javert felt as though he were more in love with Valjean every day.  He could only hope that it would last for Valjean, too.  He rolled over on his side, hoping, and was rewarded by Valjean pressing up behind him.  Javert curled in so that despite his height, he felt that Valjean was the taller one as he wrapped an arm around him.  

***

Javert found that it was nearly effortless to live with Valjean.  True, Valjean was a bit more untidy by nature, but there was little enough to be untidy with in the sparse apartment, and Valjean made an effort to clean up after himself.  But after having been forced into such close proximity on their journey over the Gobrin Ice, before there was even love between them to smooth the course, they had managed to get along in a smaller space.  In fact, rather than tiring of his company, Javert found himself wishing to be back home with Valjean while out at work.  He had never before felt so keenly the hours that he was kept away from his home.  

Away from home - that was another story.  He found that it was desperately hard to remain in the police force after everything he had experienced and come to realize.  Javert managed to make it through each day by trying to think of what Valjean would do, or what Valjean would think of a given situation.  He trusted the man’s internal compass in these matters more than his own, ever since those first few days on their voyage when Valjean had pulled him back from the literal and metaphorical brink.  He carefully wrote to Chabouillet to thank him, but tell him that he was not interested in a police position in Paris.  The problem was, he wasn’t sure what he was interested in, and he did need to earn his living for now.  He knew that he would be unable to bear living off of Valjean’s largesse.  

It was a sticky problem, and one that he did not have a ready answer for.  He continued to stew over the problem during long patrols when there was little to occupy him.  Javert had yet to talk this over with Valjean, instinctively not wanting to burden him with it.

***

Valjean was getting around fine thanks to the crutches which Javert had commissioned, and he had wanted to be more active again.  He rented a small studio not far away from their apartment where he could work on his resin-making project while Javert was away with work.  It was coming along well, once he had come up with all the necessary supplies, and he felt that he was on the verge of a breakthrough.  

He became a familiar sight in the town again, limping to and from his workshop, occasionally stopping to talk with someone when there was no getting out of it.  Everyone knew how he had been wounded - it had been reported in the paper - and many people had stopped him along his way to tell him how they still supported him, or to congratulate him on his pardon.  

He was making his way home one night when he ran into Javert, also apparently returning home.

“There you are,” said Valjean.

“Here I am.  Nothing much going on, so I thought that I would go home early.  Would you like to go to dinner with me?  Rivette was saying that there is a new restaurant which opened just around here…”

The idea was vaguely tempting.  But Valjean knew how it would be.  They would sit down, and someone would approach them.  Someone well-intentioned, who wanted to hear everything about their adventures in Orgoreyn, and on the Gobrin Ice.  They would be full of praise and admiration.  Javert would step in and speak, graciously sparing him.  Valjean thought Javert a fine storyteller, and he would listen to the tale as if hearing about another’s life.  But in the telling, with the audience, he would be distanced from Javert.  Better to have a humble dinner at home, breaking bread with Javert alone.  Theirs was no longer an exciting life, but it was theirs.  Valjean once again found himself in the blessed position of having everything which he had never thought to wish for. 

“No.  I would rather go home with you.”

“I fear I must be tiresome company, day in and day out.”  

“Not at all,” said Valjean, who was looking forward to his time alone with Javert.  

Having gotten that settled, they fell into step beside one another on the cold spring evening.  Javert had originally been planning on working late, and it was already growing dark.  Many people had already made it to their homes, and the few who were left on the street hurried up as the chill descended.  Valjean moved in closer to Javert, and took his hand in one of his.  His entire nervous system lit up, both with the thrill of touching Javert’s skin and the perceived danger of touching him in public.  He was too distracted by the warm, surprised look beaming down from Javert’s face to worry too much about what others might think, though.  They were a team, and they were joined together by all they had been through, all they had done together, and all they had been for one another.  

Hand in hand, the man of mercy and the man of justice made their way home. 

 

*** The End ***

 

 

 

The last chapter will be an epilogue! Stay for more fluff!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Javert made his way into the kitchen, carrying a heavy basket of peaches.  He spotted Valjean, and smiled involuntarily.  The sight of him often brought a toothy smile of pure joy to Javert’s face, and today was no different.



“What is your plan for these?”  he asked Valjean, who was wearing his apron and chopping vegetables into some sort of salad.  



“I’m making peach cobbler - wait until you try it,” replied Valjean, knife halted for a moment as he looked up at Javert.



Just the thought of the dessert was heavenly.  It had been a surprise, when they moved in together:  Valjean liked to tinker around in the kitchen.  Javert had thought that he was really helping out on the ice, by doing most of the cooking.  But quickly preparing tack in various ways pretty much represented the limit of Javert’s cooking. Valjean had unseen depths in this area, as in others.  Suddenly, Javert found himself eating far better than he ever had in his life.  Javert would have assumed that as Madeleine, Valjean would have had someone to cook for him, and that before that time in his life, he would not have had the resources to really learn how to cook.  But here he was, a natural in the kitchen.  Javert had asked him about it one day. 



“I like to do things for myself,” Valjean had told him. Continuing in a more subdued tone,  “Besides, when you have gone hungry in the past, it’s easy to appreciate the joy of making food.  Hungry, or eating prison food day in and day out with no sense of control or choice.”



“I see,” Javert had said.  He didn’t want to push what had unexpectedly touched on a painful topic.  But he himself had never learned to cook well despite the fact that the food served to Toulon’s prison’s guards was not much better than that given to the prisoners.  



Now Javert sat the basket of peaches down, and went over to the stove to see if there were any more coffee left over, or if Valjean had finished it off while he was out.  Spying some, he poured it into his empty mug.  



Javert had taken care of the farm chores that morning, in order to allow Valjean more time in the kitchen.  He had checked on the vegetable garden, run the water to a few plants which needed it, fed the chickens and horses, and milked the cow.  And this morning, Valjean had asked him to go collect a basket of peaches from the orchard, and here he was.  



Everything had changed so much over the past few months that Javert could scarcely keep track of it. Valjean’s work with the synthetic resins had taken off - he had successfully finished inventing the process and then set about scaling it up commercially.  International demand was high and growing by the day, and Valjean had to scale up rapidly from his simple prototype in rented rooms.  He managed to buy back his old factory and repurpose it to this new mode of manufacture.  The process was disruptive, but he kept all the employees and increased their pay.  Most were thrilled by the change in ownership - there were several weeks of paid time off for most of the staff while a construction crew made the modifications to the building necessary for the new process to work efficiently.



Marguerite had been elevated to the role of floorwoman at the factory after the woman who had occupied that role left to be married.  Valjean had taken her aside and explained that she was due the promotion due to her seniority from the old factory, and that she shouldn’t view it as any form of favoritism.  Ever since the incident with Madame Victurnien, Valjean was careful to be more involved in the hiring and if necessary the firing of his workers.  



Quickly seeing that his small factory in Montreuil would not be able to meet international demands, Valjean then sold the license for the process to several other manufacturers across Karhide.  Soon a steady flow of the resin was making its way to Orgoryen, cheaper than ever. 



Javert watched all of this happen with a sense of unease.  He was happy for Valjean - of course he was.  How could he not be happy when Valjean had both fulfilled a personal goal and helped ensure peace between the two neighboring countries?  But with this new success came money; money beyond what Javert could ever hope to earn.  It made him uncomfortable, this imbalance between them.  When they had started out romantically, all had been equal on the ice.  But how would things play out now Valjean was once again wealthy beyond the dreams of a morally compromised police inspector?  Valjean had insisted that they not let money get between them, but the real world was complicated.  It was not all simple for Valjean, either.  Valjean had solved the puzzle and saved the day, which was no doubt rewarding in its own way. But now he was back in the position of running a factory, and with this new factory came much greater pressure than when he was running the jetworks factory.  



Meanwhile, Javert had his own struggles.  He had been bitterly torn between his loyalty to his work and the tuggings of his heart.  Perhaps another man could have managed to reconcile his newly discovered conscience with the work he was doing for the police, but not Javert.  He turned in his resignation to the new mayor, and shuffled back to his apartment, discouraged.  Penning a letter explaining his choice to Chabouillet took up some of the rest of that afternoon.  He knew that his patron would be disappointed in him, after all that he had done to support his career and pull Javert out from obscurity.  But as far as Javert could see, it couldn’t be helped.



Then Javert had quickly become restless.  He paced the apartment, cleaned things which did not need it, and rummaged through the classified ads in the paper, looking for jobs that he might be able to do.  They were both adrift, in different ways, and sitting in front of the fire one cold early spring evening, several nights after he had penned his resignation, Javert had broached the topic.  



“Jean?” he asked, catching Valjean’s attention immediately.  Javert rarely called Valjean by his first name except when overcome by passion.  “Are you happy?”



“Of course I am.  I have everything that I could have dreamed of, and more.”  



“But…once the factory is running, it’s not going to need as much of your attention anymore. You’ve done what you have set out to do.  What is next?  Do you intend to take up politics again?”



“No, I don’t think so.”



“Are you certain?  There are people here still loyal to you.  More loyal than ever, in my case,” said Javert with a teasing smile.



“I know, but I don’t think that I have the knack for it.  I haven’t thought beyond this, you know.  I just…you know I didn’t expect a pardon, and I certainly never expected to fall in love like I have with you.  But put all this aside for now - how about you?  What will you do now that you have resigned?”  Valjean understood him perfectly by now; understood why Javert had been driven to resign.  They had discussed what Javert had been feeling, and Valjean felt some guilt for his role in what was obviously becoming a bit of a crisis for Javert. 



“I will find some other work,” said Javert dismissively.



“If…that is…” Valjean hesitated.  “Javert, you don’t need to work.  You know that, don’t you?  I will support you.”



Javert frowned.  “I will not be your kept lover.  Put the thought out of your mind.”



“It doesn’t have to be some tawdry thing -”



“I think that I can find work tomorrow,” said Javert, ignoring him entirely.  “I intend to work the fields.”



“Ah,” said Valjean quietly.  “I remember making my living that way as a young man.  It’s a hard life.”



“Harder than life on the Gobrin Ice?”



“Well, no,” replied Valjean with a smile.  This touchstone in their relationship had come to signal every hardship, and yet also the coming of true love.  “I know that when you set your mind to something, you will not be easily dissuaded -”



What a stark contrast this was with Javert’s own self perception.  He felt himself adrift lately, not knowing what to do or what was wrong or right.  That was how he had found himself having left the police.  Not for the first time, Javert wondered what it was that Valjean saw when he looked at him.  If Valjean insisted on seeing the good in him, however, Javert was determined to try to prove him right.



“My mind is made up.  I will start tomorrow,” said Javert, attempting to speak with more firmness than he felt.



And so it was - farmers were hiring for the spring planting and Javert was able to find a job the next day.  He had been recognized at the first several farms where he inquired, and the owners had expressed disbelief that he would be willing to work on their land, but at the fourth door he was not turned away.  Either they did not recognize him or chose not to question his motives - Javert decided in turn not to question them.  They arranged for him to begin work as soon as the ground had thawed and become workable.  



The work was hard; harder than Javert had expected.  But he was willing to apply himself, and there was a certain pleasant release in giving himself over to manual labor.  He rarely had to think, just let his body get into the rhythm of the work.  He had no notion of how to run a farm, but the owners gave him all the direction he needed.  In the evenings, there was Valjean willing to rub his shoulders and do more for him, besides.  Valjean had made a full recovery from his injury and proved to be an increasingly inventive lover.  Javert was so pleased with this newfound life that he found himself worried.  What did he bring to Valjean, which Valjean could not find better somewhere else? 



They had fallen into a comfortable routine when Valjean had told Javert that he wanted to talk about the future.  Javert’s heart sank - surely Valjean had realized that he could do much better than him, and would be leaving. 



“Have you ever thought of moving to the countryside, Javert?  Don’t get me wrong,” he had said.  “I’m happy in this apartment.  But just think, if we had some land of our own in the countryside…You could have your own fields to cultivate.”



“We both know that I have no idea how to do that on my own.  I am content with my current lot, Valjean.  I can follow orders just as well as I can give them.”  



“But you wouldn’t be on your own.  We are a team.  I would teach you everything I know, and I flatter myself to think that I know a fair bit about running a farm.  Just think about it, would you?”  



Javert let himself consider the idea.  Initially the thought rankled - had he not made it clear to Valjean that he did not want to be a kept lover?  But on second thought, he realized that it would not be a case of Valjean taking pity on him.  He understood that at heart, Valjean belonged to the fields and forest, and he would be happier outside of the city.  He could even picture what life would be like.  He would manage the farm and the home, while Valjean took care of business.  It would be much the same as his current life, except it would be 

theirs.  

And after all, he had worked for Valjean before.  There was nothing new there.  In the end, he had agreed to it, and had known that he had made the right decision as soon as he had seen the delight on Valjean’s face. 



There were a number of farms in the area which had been for sale for a long time, their owners having left the region when the threat of conflict was imminent, and having settled into new lives elsewhere.  Valjean and Javert toured several, on the horses that Valjean had paid for and for which they hoped to find a permanent stable.  Javert found he didn’t have terribly strong opinions, but he saw Valjean’s eyes light up when he first saw this orchard, and Javert knew that he had made up his mind.  The 30 acre market farm was everything that Valjean had hoped for, as he explained to Javert in detail.  Valjean evidently had plans for the overgrown property as soon as he saw it, and as he talked it was as if Javert could see it too.  They had bought the farm together; Javert as a point of pride contributing what was left of his savings, although it wasn’t strictly necessary.  



Javert immediately gave notice at the farm where he worked:  there was a lot of work to do if they were to get the spring planting underway in time, and the neglected house needed a lot of attention.  His employers were disappointed, as he was a hard worker, but he had only been there for a month and was not irreplaceable.  



Once they moved in, Valjean was primarily hands off, and left the running of the farm to Javert, instructing him in the evenings as necessary. Nowadays, he primarily devoted himself to philanthropic work, since the day to day running of the factory could be left to the people he had hired.  In between the charities he sponsored and the running of his factory, though, he managed to make the farm feel like a home like no place Javert had ever experienced.  



Of course, people had talked.  People continued to talk.  But they couldn’t touch them, and in the end, Javert had to accept that the loss of public respectability was a small price to pay for what he had gained.  The smell of bread baking, a fire in the hearth, and the companionship of Valjean.  



He was often home when Javert came in from the fields in the evening, having prepared dinner for them.  Javert felt incredibly lucky to be greeted with a kiss and a warm smile, and never ceased to wonder at it.  He wondered how a false sense of duty could have ever meant more to him than this.



Now, Javert had brought in a basket of peaches for their picnic.  



“Thank you, my love,” said Valjean.  The words still sounded strange - every once in a while Valjean would experiment with pet names for Javert and it always took him aback.  



Valjean had made an assortment of sandwiches out of the fresh bread he had baked the other day - what remained of the fresh bread which had not been eaten by Javert.  He now reached for the peaches, feeling them and nodding approvingly.  



Valjean picked up some of the peaches, beginning to peel them and slice them, and adding them to the heavy saucepan to cook down.  Once finished, he arranged them in the pan and spread on the crumbly mixture forming the top of the cobbler.  The whole thing went into the oven.



Javert had watched Valjean silently, sipping his coffee.  When the pan was safely in the oven, Valjean made his way over.  He pinned Javert against the counter for a leisurely kiss.  



“How long - ah,” gasped Javert as Valjean kissed and nuzzled at his throat.  “How long does that bake?”



“Forty-five minutes,” whispered Valjean into his skin.



“How will we spend the time?” Javert asked, settling his hands on Valjean’s hips.  “Surely you are done with that salad.”



“I’m yours,” he said, and let Javert lead him to their bedroom.  



Forty-five minutes later, hair dripping from a quick shower, Valjean took the cobbler out of the oven.  He was joined by their cat Leonila.  She had come with the farm - whether she had been left behind by the past owners or whether she had moved in after them, she was there to greet Valjean and Javert.  Especially Valjean.  The fluffy calico had taken an immediate liking to Valjean, and the feeling was clearly mutual.  Leonila liked to share what leisure hours he had, and it was with an amused sigh that Javert often found the cat curled against Valjean while he read.  Perhaps enticed by the movement and activity, Leonila now wove among their legs, meowing plaintively.  



Fantine, Marguerite, and Cosette would be arriving soon, and Javert kept an eye out for them through the front window.  Javert knew that Fantine and Valjean had stayed in touch, writing to one another occasionally.  But this would be their first time visiting them at the new farm, and apparently Valjean wanted to make sure that everything was nice.  He had recruited Javert to help clean the house as thoroughly as possible the day before, despite the fact that they would be mostly outside during the picnic.  



The weather had turned out perfectly, a wonderful spring day.  A bird sang on the fence near the gate - perhaps it was one of the same ones that Valjean had pointed out earlier as building a nest.  Javert wished that he could remember what Valjean had called it.



There was movement at the end of the lane:  the ladies had arrived.  The two women and the young girl were dressed in colorful summer dresses that were cheerful to see, even for one as uninterested in women’s fashion as Javert.  Marguerite had a hand on Fantine’s arm.  Cosette was skipping, missing a beat occasionally as she paused to gaze at one thing or another. 



“Valjean, they are here.”



The two men made their way outside, and greeted them warmly.  Smiles, handshakes, awkward embraces, and stilted greetings filled the space.  There was no one at the gathering who could be considered a social butterfly, and they had not seen each other socially in a long time, but there was real warmth evident.  They exclaimed over the beauty of the farm, and of the day itself, and how nice it was to finally be seeing one another again.



“Please, come with me,” Valjean said.  “It will only take us a moment to finish getting set up.”



The group wandered back to the kitchen, where Fantine and Marguerite wouldn’t hear of not helping carry the picnic supplies out.  



“What will I carry?” asked Cosette.



“Hmm, how about the blanket?  That’s the most important of all,” said Valjean.



The little girl beamed with pride as Javert handed her the large old blanket which they had set aside for this purpose.  They headed for the door, Leonila heading them off and pushing through the door with them.  



Making their way outside to a lawn near the orchard, the group stretched out the newly designated picnic blanket between them in the sunshine, and laid down the rest of their burdens.  Cosette was asking questions, and showing off to her hosts her knowledge of birds and insects.  



“Cosette, my dear, why don’t you run and catch us some insects to show the gentlemen?” said Fantine. 



“All right!” said Cosette, bounding off happily, the flash of her skirts as lively as the grasshoppers that she soon started pursuing.  



“Sorry about that.  She gets excited.  We don’t often visit people -”



“Oh, no need to apologize,” said Valjean smiling.  “It’s lovely to have a child around.”  Not for the first time, Javert wondered if Valjean would have liked a child of his own, and felt relieved and saddened in equal parts that he would not be able to give him one.  He was unsure about how he felt about children, although he had to admit that Cosette was charming.   



“But how is your leg?” asked Fantine of Valjean.



“Oh, it’s as good as ever,” said Valjean, who seemed vaguely embarrassed to have the attention turned to him.  



“And I’m so glad for that.  There was a time there when I didn’t think that you were going to make it.”



Watching Valjean regain his strength had been deeply gratifying for Javert, who suffered alongside him when watching him in pain.  Valjean had slowly been able to do more and more around the farm as he recovered.



Marguerite spoke up, to Valjean.  “Is this one making you happy?” she asked, indicating Javert.  The warmth of her smile to Javert precluded any chance of his taking offense at her words.



“More than I can say,” replied Valjean.  For some reason, a memory came back to Javert; nothing special, but that morning when Valjean had made to get out of bed and get started on the day, Javert had tugged him back.  Perfectly willing, Valjean slid back into bed, and wrapped his arms around Javert. Javert was not a small man by any means, but Valjean made him feel so contained when he held him like this.   



“It’s worth it, isn’t it - it’s worth loving who you want no matter what small-minded people say.”  Now her gaze fell on Fantine, warm as the spring sunshine.  Her golden hair looked especially fine in the early afternoon glow.  Javert was learning to see people differently - he studied from the book that was Valjean’s heart, and from it he felt he was learning many lessons.  He could see the beauty in the people he looked at.  Where once he had seen merely an unworthy prostitute, now he saw a young woman with a heart which became noble through her care for others.  



And what Marguerite had said was true.  There had been gossip - of course there was.  But Javert found that his reputation mattered less and less to him when he had Valjean to keep him company.  And after all, what did the fields and the orchard care for his old respectability?  They cared only for the work of his hands.  



They discussed current events briefly, but none of them were inclined to linger long on it.  The day was too fine, and they were finally at peace.  



Cosette ran back with her hands together, clutching something precious. She stopped politely in front of the adults, waiting to be acknowledged but nearly bouncing with excitement.  



“What have you got there, Cosette?” asked Fantine.



“Oh, it’s the loveliest grasshopper!  I’ve never seen one quite like it,” she said, carefully opening her hands to display the tiny animal to all.  Javert would scarcely have called any grasshopper lovely - it would not have occurred to him to think of them as anything other than pests.  But upon closer examination, he supposed that the striped pattern on its back was pleasing enough.  The grasshopper, quickly tiring of all this attention, made its escape while Cosette’s attention was on her audience.  



“Your insect is gone, child,” said Valjean.



“Don’t worry,” she said.  “I will find another one.”  And she bounded back off into the grass.  



“Ought we to call her for lunch?” asked Valjean. 



“Hmm, no, she will be back when she is ready,” answered Fantine.  



Valjean began to serve out the food.  Sturdy plates were loaded down with slices of fresh bread, sliced meats, salad, pickled vegetables, sliced radishes, and the ever-present peaches.  Fantine had brought herb butter made with the fresh herbs Marguerite grew, and bread she had made besides, so there was more than enough to go around.  Conversation and food was passed around evenly in the circle they made on their blanket.  



When it was time for dessert, everyone exclaimed over Valjean’s peach cobbler.  It was a spectacularly messy choice for a picnic, but no one regretted it.  The sweet peaches and delicious pastry practically melted in their mouths.  



“Cosette has been gone for a while,” said Marguerite. “Perhaps I had better go find her.”  



She stood up, but it was as if the girl had been summoned.  She bounded back into view from over the hill, and came up to the picnicking group.  Cosette offered up a banded wooly bear caterpillar to Javert.  “It’s cute!”  she explained.  



Unsure of himself with children, and with small hairy caterpillars, he watched the creature inch its way across his palm for a moment before passing it on to Fantine on his right.



“Thank you,” she said, beaming at both him and Cosette.  “Cosette, dear, come and eat lunch.”



Face still aglow with the pride of her capture, Cosette set herself down and arranged the skirts of her dress.  The small party worked together to fix up a plate for her, solicitously offering more food than the child could possibly eat, and the caterpillar made its way to Valjean via Fantine.



Javert watched as the admittedly rather cute insect made its way over those hands that were so familiar to him.  Javert felt a strange thing:  he was perfectly at peace.  His life was so far from what he thought he had wanted a year ago, when all he knew to ask for was a piece of evidence that he could use against Jean Valjean.  But now he was here with the land he cultivated, and the man who knew how to cultivate his heart.  There was no going back to being the man who he was before the merciless ice of his journey and the warming center fire of Valjean’s love changed him.  He belonged to Valjean now, and he felt satisfied that he could say Valjean belonged to him.  It was, it turned out, all he needed.  



Valjean handed the caterpillar gently to Marguerite, and Javert, watching closely, silently wished it well on its upcoming journey of transformation.


Thanks for reading all the way to the end!