Title: lonely man of winter
Work ID: 43840996
Author: sworn_sword
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Winter, Post-Seine, Javert Lives, Valjean Lives, and they are friends : ), Religious Imagery & Symbolism, Guilt, Tenderness
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


I go where I love and where I am loved,


into the snow;


I go to the things I love 


with no thought of duty or pity; 



Hilda Doolittle, 

The Flowering of the Rod



 

 


As the first flakes of snow began to fall over Paris, a lone, dark figure moved through the streets, trailed by his long shadow which emerged and retreated in the glow of each passing streetlamp. His stiff, even strides seemed undeterred by the cold. Gamins scampered across his path, cackling and squealing with joy, but the man hardly reacted to their presence. To be frank, snow could have been coming down in sheets around him and it was likely that the man hardly would have flinched, although once, he had been among the most sensitive to his surroundings of all the lawmen in Paris. 



Ah, but Javert was no longer a man of the law. For indeed it was Javert, walking back to his lodgings from dinner with Valjean at the house on Rue Plumet. He was preoccupied, cataloging memories of the evening they had spent together. He recalled the healthy flush in Valjean’s cheeks as he sipped his wine, the simple meal they had shared, the small smiles on Valjean’s lips, intended only for him. These recent images of his friend left him with a strange, unbalanced feeling in his chest that resembled nausea. 



Friend. A peculiar word to ascribe to the man whose very existence nearly drove Javert to end his life a year and a half ago - and the man whose own life was just about ruined countless times over by Javert’s mad machinations in days gone by. Yet even though the word felt strange on his tongue, he struggled to find another to describe what his former enemy had become. In Javert’s lowest moments, Valjean had extended a gentle hand - to him! To one who scarcely deserved a single pittance of gentleness. Javert fought against it at first. But eventually - and against Javert’s better judgment, it must be said - Valjean had prevailed. Of course he had. When in Javert’s life had he ever really stood a chance against him?



Javert trod the frozen streets in silence with his chin sunk into the collar of his greatcoat. Apart from the evening’s memories of Jean Valjean, he kept his mind carefully blank, as was his habit. When he finally reached his lodgings, he climbed the steps of the narrow building and entered his sparse room. He removed his coat, undressed, and slid into his bed, between cold sheets.


 


When he woke the next morning, whatever spirit had possessed him to ignore last evening’s chill had left him. His hands and feet were sluggish with cold, and Javert sighed as he forced himself out of bed. He shuffled over to the window of his room and wiped the patina of frost away.



Outside, the wind was beginning to pick up, and snow was falling heavily. if Valjean had been there, he no doubt would have remarked upon the beauty of the tableau. Javert, however, found himself unable to appreciate anything much about it except for the fact that he was quite cold, and his damned lungs hurt. Since that night when he had plunged into the Seine and Valjean had fished him out kicking and screaming, every winter’s chill seemed to creep into his bones and fill his chest with bitter frost. It was an unfortunately corporeal reminder of a time that Javert was already quite incapable of forgetting. 



The one good thing about it, Javert supposed, was that he had no obligations to leave his rooms that day. It was his day off from work at the news office, where he had served as an illustrator for the papers this last year. After the dismal June days when Javert found his world upended, he had quickly learned that the police work he had once lived to do now revolted him. He could not look upon a thief or beggar in the street without feeling a shock of vertigo, seeing Valjean’s damnable beatific eyes looking back at him. What if these men and women were just the same as he - unfortunate saints, marred by circumstance? It didn’t bear thinking about. He could not. So, he had turned his scrutiny towards other ends. 



Javert sighed and withdrew from the window to prepare for the day. Though he had no plans to leave his rooms, he could not abide by the thought of remaining unkempt. And if his movements were protracted and weary as he dressed, well, none were there to raise an eyebrow. He pulled on his greatcoat and stalked across the room to coax a flame out of his fireplace: only a small one, of course, for he remained a frugal man. Sitting at his desk, he withdrew several thin sheets of newsprint from their place in his drawer. They were each filled with sketches that he had begun to prepare for Valjean, intended as a Christmas gift. When he had crafted a satisfactory composition, he would replicate it on the sheet of thick, creamy paper he had spent a few days’ wages to buy, which now waited patiently to be used. But as his hands shuffled the pages with sluggish movements, he knew that he would not finish the task today. It wouldn’t do to ruin the already meager gift with his clumsy, cold-stunted fingers. 



No sooner had he given up on the drawings than a soft, insistent knock rang out upon his door. It could scarcely be heard above the din of the wind, which had become rather loud in the time since Javert awoke. He looked up, frowning. He had no porteress, and his neighbors knew better than to call on him, poor weather or no. The knock sounded again - Javert rose to meet it. 



Even opening his door the barest fraction sent a glacial shock through him. He peered out with narrowed eyes, already cursing whatever oaf had thought it a good idea to accost him in this weather, when - 



He met the eyes of Jean Valjean, watery with cold but still somehow infuriatingly warm. Javert opened his mouth, but the sharp retort he had intended for his intruder did not emerge.



“Hello,” Valjean said, without even the decency to sound apologetic about it. 



“Why - you -” Javert spluttered when he regained enough control over his faculties to stop gawking like a ninny. “Good God, man! Get inside!” 



He opened the door fully, ignoring the way the icy chill stole his breath, and pulled Valjean in. His cheeks were ruddy with cold, but his face was pale, and snow dusted his coat and hat. Javert brushed the snow off of him as best he could and ushered Valjean into the settee before the fire.



“Are you really so surprised to see me?” Valjean said as he was pushed into his seat. “It is your day off at the paper.” 



Indeed, on such free days, the two of them often met to walk the city together.



“Well! That may be, but this weather hardly permits our usual activities. I would have thought you sensible enough to see that, but of course, I was mistaken.”



Javert began to putter around the room, grumbling half to himself as he attempted to force some semblance of warmth into the chilled space. 



"Oh, I'll have words with that porteress of yours when next I see her," he said. "Letting you out of the house in weather like this! But no - don't tell me - she wasn't there, of course! You'll have sent her home so that 

she 

wouldn't be out in such a storm. You old fool! Did you not think, perhaps, to hold yourself to the same standard? But no, of course not. After all, what storm can stand a chance against the unassailable Jean Valjean!" 



Javert said all this while banking the fire, coaxing the flames higher until, finally, the room was suffused with a glowing warmth. He held a poker in a clenched fist and stabbed at the poor embers rather more vindictively than was strictly necessary, as if his sharp movements could force some sense into Valjean. At last, he let the fire be and strode across the room to fetch a cup of tea for his companion. 



“Are you quite done?” Valjean asked mildly as Javert returned and placed a steaming cup into his calloused hand. 



“Yes,” Javert huffed, sitting himself next to Valjean on the settee. For a while, the two were silent. Valjean sipped his tea. Javert stared into the flames that flickered and swayed in the grate. 



“It wasn’t so bad when I left the house,” Valjean finally said, a glint of laughter in his voice. “In any case, I hardly think that ‘unassailable’ is quite accurate.” 



Javert turned towards him, blinking away the strange shadow-images left by the glowing embers. Valjean’s pale skin was beginning to regain some color, and his lips were no longer so bloodless when they turned upwards in a smile as he spoke. The firelight danced in his pale hair, turning it to a soft, golden halo around his head. Javert felt the water in his chest seize up, and he couldn’t help letting out a sharp, aborted cough. The sound banished some of the mirth from Valjean’s features. 



“... on a few occasions,” Valjean was saying.  “Javert, are you -”



“I’m fine,” Javert said, rubbing at his chest in annoyance to dispel the tremor. “I’m - sorry. What did you say?”



Valjean gave him a wary look. “I said,” he began carefully, eyes lingering on Javert’s hand where it rested on his sternum. “That - well, I seem to recall facing one particular assailant on a few occasions. Sometimes, he even won the day.” 



Javert considered this as he turned his gaze back to the fire. “Yes, well,” he eventually said, his lips twisting into a sour frown as his eyes began to burn with the glowing heat of the embers. “Your assailant… Was a vile man. And a foolish one at that. I am glad that, in the end, he -”



A hand came to rest lightly on Javert’s shoulder, and he found his speech suddenly cut off. 



“Javert,” Valjean said, in that infuriatingly gentle tone of his. “I know. It’s alright.”



Javert snorted. “Only you could be so daft as to suffer at my hand for more than half your life and then sit beside me, perfectly calm, and say ‘it’s alright.’ Please, spare me your benediction today, Valjean.”



Valjean did not reply, though his hand tightened almost imperceptibly on Javert’s shoulder, which had tensed as he spoke. They sat in silence for a moment, Javert forcing small, silent breaths in and out of his lungs. 



“I didn’t mean that,” Javert eventually managed to say. His chest ached. “I’m sorry.”



“It’s alright.” Valjean dropped his hand back to his lap. The discussion of Valjean’s mercy and Javert’s guilt was not an unfamiliar source of conflict between them. It would hardly be resolved on this day, though it still rankled.



“I came today because I worry for you in this weather,” Valjean confessed, and Javert felt himself further flush with shame. “I know how it… affects you, ever since last summer. I brought this - ” Valjean reached into the pocket of his greatcoat and removed a small, unlabelled tin, whose contents rasped against the metal. “It’s something of a mix of herbs, I believe, that Monsieur Gillenormand favors when he is ill. It is meant to help the chest.” 



Javert took the tin carefully and opened the lid. The dried mixture inside smelled of mint and rosemary, penetrating the phlegm of Javert’s clouded lungs. He cleared his throat, which felt suddenly narrow. 



Valjean seemed to consider that response enough and plucked the tin back from Javert’s open palm. Rising from the settee, he went about preparing the infusion as Javert sat motionless before the fire, fingers rising absently once more to his breast. When Valjean returned with a steaming cup of the brew, Javert murmured an awkward thanks and took it between his hands.



“You’re meant to breathe the vapors, I believe,” Valjean said as he settled himself again beside him. “And then, you drink the tea, of course. If it is not to your liking -”



“It is good,” Javert said quickly. He raised the cup to his face and inhaled. The warm, minty steam curled into his nose and mouth, soothing the creaking ache in his chest. He breathed out, and in, and out. “Thank you, Valjean.” 



The rest of the morning passed quietly.  Mostly, they sat by the fire together as Valjean read and Javert forced himself to breathe the vapors of the tea slowly, rather than greedily. They ate a meager noonday meal, as Javert had never been much of a cook and was unaccustomed to providing for guests. The wind, which had grown insistent and strong, rattled the windowpanes and sent an occasional draft through the house. Thick flakes of snow continued to fall, until the world was blurred and pale with it, and the window itself was barely useful in assessing the state of things in the world beyond their haven of warmth. As the light outside began to dim, the matter of Valjean’s impending journey home could no longer be ignored. 



“I think you ought to stay here tonight,” Javert said, his eyes studying the rim of his teacup with a focus that bordered on menace in its intensity. “We’re as good as snowed in, and in any case I don’t like the thought of you out and about in this weather. You’ll take my bed, of course, and don’t try to argue, I’ll hear none of it.”



Valjean closed his book, setting it down on his lap. When Javert looked towards him, he saw that his friend was already studying him with a bemused look on his face. 



“This settee is far too small for you to sleep on,” Valjean pointed out. “You’ll wake with a terrible pain in your neck.” 



Javert scoffed. “I slept in far worse places when I was still an Inspector, as you well know. Besides, I won’t have 

you 

saying such things just to offer to take my place. I’m still the younger man, and I can take a night of discomfort.”



Of course, what neither mentioned but both knew quite well was that while Valjean was certainly older, his body was less frail than Javert’s, even in the aftermath of that spring’s ill-fated period of self-imposed starvation. Yet they both also knew that for Javert to stand by and see Valjean suffer, even in this small way, would cause him far greater discomfort than a single night of cramped sleep. After a moment more of half-hearted dispute, Valjean assented, granting Javert this indulgence. 



Another simple meal of bread and cheese and wine was shared. With Valjean’s help, Javert pulled the bed from the corner of the room and towards the fire, where it might soak up some of its warmth. Valjean settled on the mattress and picked up Javert's worn Bible. He flipped through its pages with careful fingers and began to read.



“To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.” 



Javert closed his eyes. This habit of reading the Bible aloud had begun in Javert’s period of convalescence in the Rue Plumet house. Each evening, after they shared their meal, Valjean would pull his chair over to Javert’s sickbed, open the book, and read. Although Javert cared little at first for the stories themselves, he began to treasure the stillness he found in the sound of Valjean’s unfaltering voice. It was the same now as he leaned back on the settee, stretching his legs towards the fire. 



“But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.”



Javert’s mind drifted to the thick scars that marred Valjean’s wrists, a permanent souvenir he carried from those horrible years in Toulon. 

He was bruised for our iniquities. 

The first time he had seen them fully, he had nearly fled back to the Seine. Valjean had stopped him, of course, but could never take away the leaden shame that Javert carried within him still. 

The chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes, we are healed. 

The memories made Javert squirm. 



“Yet it pleased the Lord to bruise him; he hath put him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand.”


 


Javert  woke to silence. The fire was burning low, casting strange shadows across the room, and Valjean was not in his bed. Instead, he was bent over Javert’s desk, studying something - Javert jerked up, scrambling towards him. He snatched the papers from under Valjean’s hand, which hovered over them, not quite touching. 



The page before them was one of Javert’s later attempts: a partial scene of Valjean with his daughter in the garden at the Gillenormand estate. Cosette’s face was captured in an open-mouthed laugh, and Valjean looked towards her with an expression of unbounded fondness. Javert frowned at the picture, placing it down again upon the desk. 

There is no beauty that we should desire him.

 Well. That, at least, had been wrong, even if Javert's drawings did not capture it much.



“I’m sorry. You weren’t meant to see this - at least, not until Christmas. It was going to be a gift, I thought - well. I don’t  know what I thought. I know it doesn’t do you justice,” he said. 



“Javert,” Valjean interrupted, placing a hand over his own where it rested atop the drafting papers. Javert looked up from the desk to meet Valjean’s eyes. They were shining with some emotion that Javert, with his limited vocabulary of feeling, could not begin to name. “It's quite alright." His voice was thick. Javert’s hand warmed under his grasp.



"I've never - that is -" Valjean continued, his mouth trembling. "You do me too much credit. This likeness is rather more comely than the true version, I'm afraid."



As Valjean looked down, finger tracing the outline of himself in the drawing, that strange,  nauseous vertigo overcame Javert once again. Did the man truly not know? At once, Javert could not bear it. He tilted towards Valjean without having planned to do so, and found that once he began to lean in, he could not stop, and Valjean was closer now, and the pain in his chest was worse than ever, and Javert could feel Valjean’s breath on his neck as he looked down upon him. 



"You -" Valjean started again. His eyes were wide and wondering, and Javert captured his lips with a desperation that overwhelmed all other sense. 



Valjean let out a soft noise of surprise, but after a moment of stillness, he brought his hand up to cup the back of Javert’s neck and pull him further into the kiss. Javert lost himself to the points of connection between Valjean’s body and his own. Suddenly, he wanted more of this unfamiliar touch - the wanting poured into him in a flood that could not be refused. He pressed the other man back into the desk and licked into his mouth greedily, as if he had forgotten he needed air. 



Eventually, however, Javert’s lungs protested, and the two broke apart as he sucked in quick breaths through his nose. Valjean’s cheeks were flushed, this time with something other than cold, and his lips were red where Javert had kissed, and kissed, and kissed them. One of Javert's hands remained on Valjean's chest, pressing deeper as the silence stretched between them - not pushing away, but rather attempting to press his skin so deeply into Valjean's own as to feel the rise and fall of his lungs, the warm beating of his heart, in each fingertip. His other hand rested on Valjean’s hip, where he stroked a thumb slowly back and forth.



"Javert," Valjean said at last, as soft as a sigh. He reached up with a trembling hand and laid it atop Javert's where it rested over his heart. 



Javert twisted his hand, interlacing his fingers with Valjean’s, and brought the other man’s wrist up to his face. He pressed that scarred flesh to his cheek, his lips. 



"I don't understand this," he confessed, murmuring the words against Valjean’s afflicted wrist, which he still clutched to his face like something precious that he scarcely knew how he had come to touch, let alone hold. He closed his eyes, a deep crease forming on his brow. “I do not deserve you.” 

All we like sheep have gone astray.

 



Valjean's wrist turned in his grasp, until his fingers touched Javert's forehead and smoothed the lines there. Javert shuddered. 



“Javert,” Valjean said again. “Won’t you come to bed with me?”



And Javert found that he could still refuse the man nothing, so he allowed himself to be pulled to the small, short bed. They laid there together with Valjean’s head upon Javert’s chest, until their breathing was much the same and the fire had burned down to its embers. 



“I have never had cause to have a portrait drawn of myself,” Valjean eventually murmured into the semi-darkness. “Any images of Jean Valjean that exist in the world - well, I can only assume they are kept by the police for the purpose of their records. I am glad to have a picture of myself where I am seen as human."



Javert looked down at the man’s white hair, pressing his nose and mouth to the crown of his head. He cursed all those who had seen Valjean as less than a man - Javert himself first upon the list. He clutched Valjean tighter in his arms. 



“Well!" He said at last. "I must continue drawing you then. You do have a fine figure -" he coughed. "I say that as an artist, of course." 



Valjean huffed out a small laugh and kissed Javert’s knuckles. “Of course,” he allowed, though in truth there was no longer any room for pretense between them.



He seemed to accept Javert's stilted words, though, just as he accepted the younger man’s arms around him, holding him perhaps too closely, and his fingers, trailing perhaps too roughly up and down the soft skin of Valjean’s neck and jaw. They said nothing more, though each lay awake for a long time, listening to the sound of the wind and the quiet rhythm of breath. Eventually, they slept. 


 


In the morning, the snow had stopped in Paris, but the city was still shrouded in white. The roofs had lost their sharp edges, transformed into gentle rolling hills under their blanket of snow. The steeples of the churches rose like pale fingers towards the distant, milky sun. Two figures looked out over the scene from a window. They huddled together, though they were warmed by a well tended fire, and by other things known only to them two.



"It is beautiful," Valjean said softly, pressing Javert's hand. For indeed it was Valjean and Javert, staring out into the winter. Javert turned from the window to gaze instead upon his companion, whose face was alight with quiet joy. 

He shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand

. Javert threaded his fingers with Valjean's and pulled his lips into a strange grimace that was, perhaps, a smile.
