Title: me and my double heart
Work ID: 51487138
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert/Rivette (Les Misérables)
Additional Tags: Spitroasting, Threesome - M/M/M, Oral Sex, Deepthroating, Anal Sex, Ficlet, Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot, Kinktober 2023, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables), Light Dom/sub, like. incredibly light., nebulous paris or post-seine era
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

“I-Inspector!” Rivette yelped, his hips bucking forward sharply. Javert coughed as Rivette’s cock hit the back of his throat, and Javert swallowed desperately rather than choke on the length. Javert’s throat worked to take the blunt, leaking heat of the younger man’s cock deeper, Javert’s jaw aching at the stretch. Javert could feel his eyes tearing up and he furiously blinked away at the moisture, swallowing again as he became more comfortable with the length in his throat, his tongue moving cautiously beneath the pounding heat of Rivette’s shaft.  
  
Rivette was shaped differently from Valjean—longer, more curved, not as thick—and Javert half-thought he was learning the trick of this all over again. But Rivette was red-faced and gasping above him, looking down at Javert with almost worshipful adoration, and so Javert imagined he must not be doing too badly. Javert moved his tongue again and hollowed his cheeks just to see what reaction that would bring, and was rewarded by Rivette bending forward and clutching wildly at his shoulders as he whined, “Inspector, please…!”  
  
“Gentle, now,” Valjean chided from behind him, and Javert was not entirely sure if Valjean was prompting Javert to be gentle with the young officer, or asking Rivette be gentle with him. Too late for that, if the latter, although Javert’s throat had relaxed around Rivette’s cock and Javert felt himself falling into a rhythm, moving his head up and down in small increments while he curled and pressed his tongue underneath the cock in his mouth. 
  
The pat on Javert’s hip as Valjean gave a smooth, languorous thrust forward suggested that Valjean’s words were for him.  
  
Javert pushed back against Valjean’s length inside of him, nearly in time with the push of his head over Rivette’s cock. Another thrust, another shift of Javert’s throat and mouth, and there, he had it: Javert bobbed his head and worked his tongue, breathing heavily through his nose, spittle running down Javert’s chin as he sucked Rivette’s length further into the wet press of his mouth. 
  
He swallowed Rivette down to the root, Rivette’s cock sinking into the grip of his throat with every pass. Javert wondered at the length of it while raising his hips in time with the familiar press of Valjean’s thick, hot length splitting his open, Valjean plunging forward while Javert pushed back. Valjean angled his hips until there was the bright spark and fiery pleasure of the blunt head of Valjean’s cock brushing Javert’s prostate, and Javert moaned around Rivette’s length, the vibrations traveling along Rivette’s shaft and causing the younger man to swear and pant and scrabble at Javert’s shoulders again.  
  
“Inspector,” Rivette whimpered. “I think—I might—”  
  
Javert suckled Rivette’s cock just as Valjean thrust against his prostate again, pushing Javert’s entire body forward, Rivette’s cock reaching impossibly deep in his throat. Javert rocked on the spread of his folded knees, broad palms bearing his weight; fighting to maintain balance against Valjean’s steady, even thrusts. Javert’s own cock was leaking clear fluid against the floorboards, his erection pounding in time with the throb of Rivette’s cock spearing him on one end, Valjean claiming him on the other.   
  
Javert wanted to call out, to taste their names on his tongue, but could not speak around the cock stuffing his throat. He relaxed against the bulk of Valjean’s body, allowing himself to be moved by the momentum of Valjean and Rivette filling him entirely, thinking of how to bring each man to his release with his lips, his body—  
  
Tongue curved beneath Rivette’s shaft to drag along the thick vein running beneath, Javert slid his throat off of Rivette’s cock to hold in his mouth, tilting his head and sucking. Javert molded his cheek around the blunt shape of Rivette’s cock while Rivette thrust forward helplessly, whining something that might have been Javert’s name. Javert ducked his head down once again and swallowed deeply, constricting his throat, and Javert could feel it—the hot wet gush of seed going straight down to his stomach as Rivette came. The younger man was crying out somewhere above Javert’s head, petting blindly at Javert’s neck and face and chin, tangling his fingers in Javert’s long hair.  
  
Javert gently pulled his head back even as Rivette’s length continued to pulse its release, so that the final few splashes landed wetly in Javert’s waiting mouth, across his swollen red lips; one last spurt streaking across Javert’s nose as he pulled his mouth away. Javert swallowed the spend in his mouth, wincing slightly at the scrape of his sore and abraded throat, but ignored the discomfort to dart his tongue out to lick at the seed smeared along his lips.  
  
“Sir,” Rivette breathed, his eyes enormous and very, very dark.  
  
Javert looked up at Rivette from beneath the dark fan of his eyelashes, gratified that everything he had explored and learned alongside Valjean was so effective with Rivette as well.   
  
Rivette’s hands fluttered uncertainty along Javert’s sweat-damp skin, and Javert nudged his nose along Rivette’s softened cock, lapping the head clean. Javert’s tongue flicked against the tip in soft swipes until Rivette was squirming his hips away, hissing, “Inspector, please!”  
  
“My apologies,” Javert tried to say, voice hoarse, not feeling entirely sincere in his regret as he swallowed the last, clinging droplets of salty fluid. 
  
Valjean drove his hips against Javert in erratic, jagged movements, the motion filling the humid space between the three men with the lewd slap of skin on skin. Javert recognized when Valjean was close, relaxing into Valjean’s tight grip around his waist. Leveraging himself against Valjean’s hold, Javert shakily lifted one hand from his precarious balance as he kneeled on the floor to grasp his own cock, which jerked and flexed against the hot press of his palm.    
  
Javert stroked himself in time with Valjean’s ragged thrusts, urging, “Yes, God, Jean, just like that,” and Valjean threw his weight forward. The round, thick head of Valjean’s cock knocked against Javert’s prostate again and Javert was coming; his release painting the floor, dripping down his fist. 
  
Swaying forward, Javert pressed his head against Rivette’s bare thigh as the younger man hesitantly stroked along the curve of his skull, murmuring his name. Javert’s passage throbbed and clenched with each pulse of spunk from his cock, and he drew in a shuddering, satisfied breath as he felt Valjean following after him. Valjean’s release flooded Javert’s insides, hot and wet and dribbling down Javert’s perineum as Valjean fucked Javert through the aftershocks.  
  
Valjean leaned down to press his face between Javert’s shoulderblades and gasped, “God in Heaven, the way you feel, Javert.”  
  
Still resting his head at Rivette’s hip, Javert’s hole rippled around Valjean’s last, languid push against Javert’s backside. Javert tilted his arse up, squeezing around Valjean’s cock until Valjean chuckled breathlessly, nipping at the knobs of Javert’s spine as he said, “Have mercy.” Javert obediently relaxed around Valjean’s hypersensitive length, Valjean pulling out of Javert’s stretched furl with an obscene pop and a rush of seed. 
  
Tacky with drying spend, knees sore and twinging from their prolonged contact with the wood flooring, Javert shifted awkwardly between the two men standing above him, thinking of damp cloths and a clean change of clothing. But he stilled as Valjean’s hand curled warm and soothing around the dip of his waist, Rivette brushing hair from his forehead where it had fallen limp and matted into his face.  
  
“Don’t worry, my dear,” Valjean said, thumb drawing circles on Javert’s hip. “Now that you’ve taken such good care of us, let us spend a few moments looking after you, as well.” 