Title: Midnight Kiss
Work ID: 43882887
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Holidays, New Years, Modern Era, Established Relationship, Post-Seine, Fluff
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


Javert had done what he thought was the right thing, and offered to take his boyfriend out for New Year’s Eve.  They could get dinner at an elegant restaurant, go to a party, watch the young people get rowdy, and toast the new year with champagne.  To his secret relief, Valjean had declined with a shy smile.



Instead, Cosette had gone off to a party at her friend’s house, where Valjean had been assured there was no alcohol, and they had the apartment to themselves once Javert came over.  Valjean cooked dinner for them, and put on music from a playlist he had made for Javert.  They then crowded in together on a small section of the large sofa to watch movies until midnight, Javert’s arm wrapped possessively around Valjean’s broad shoulders.  



In the previous days, they had been debating the merits of New Year’s resolutions.  Valjean claimed to love the tradition.  “There’s something wonderful about a holiday that celebrates new starts; a chance to renew yourself,” he would say.  He debated to himself what resolution to make, seeming to enjoy going back and forth with different ideas.



Javert disagreed with the whole premise.  He strove to be irreproachable every day - he did not see the need to make any special goals just because it was the beginning of the year.  If it was worth doing, he should be doing it for the rest of the year as well.  But he supposed that he should humor Valjean and set a resolution or two.  In the end, he had privately decided to follow whatever Valjean set himself to.  He would let him be his guide here, as well.  



These past seven months with Valjean were changing him.  Years of suppressed desire had been fulfilled; the sex exceeding his fantasies. But how could he have guessed that he would want Valjean to make him a better person, too?  Before, he would have asked what he could possibly learn from an ex-convict.  He had known too little to realize what he didn’t know.  Now that he had the chance to bask in Valjean’s presence, he was insatiable like a reptile seeking the sun on a cool day.  



Now they waited.  Neither man drank heavily, but Javert had brought over a bottle of champagne to toast, and they wandered back to the kitchen around a quarter till.  



The clock struck midnight.  Their glasses clinked together, and they had barely taken a sip before Javert was on Valjean, kissing him so thoroughly that it was lucky their teeth did not clink together as well.  Their bodies pressed together, as Valjean guided the kiss back to a more manageable pace.  Javert sucked Valjean’s lip, then tilted Valjean’s head up, kissing along his jawline and down his throat.  Valjean moaned softly, beatifically.  



Javert slid down to his knees, gripping Valjean’s hips hard.  Calloused hands ran through his hair like a caress, Valjean whispered his name like a prayer, and he could not undo Valjean’s jeans fast enough. 
