Title: My pain fits in the palm of your freezing hand
Work ID: 50774791
Author: PoemAboutCitylights
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Hurt/Comfort, Self-Discovery, Mentions of Javert's Jump Into the Seine, Gardening, Middle Aged Virgins, Getting Together, Healing, Pining, Javert hates his life until he doesn't, Body Worship
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

He should have known that not even in death, he would be free of Jean Valjean. With nothing but his right to die left to be stripped of him, he should have expected that Valjean would deny him even this. He fights the man’s hands when they try to grasp him, water pushing into his lungs. He knows that bones broke when he hit the surface of the Seine, his body weak from the days at the barricade, but he cannot feel the pain of it. He squirms out of Valjean’s touch but barely manages so. It must be him, Javert thinks, while he feels the little energy that is left in his body slowly leaving him. No other than Valjean would steal all he has left from him.Not when he should have perished by the man’s hands.It was his right, Javert thinks, feeling the water soaking up his clothes, pulling Valjean down towards the ground of the Seine with him, while he thinks of the weapon in the older man’s hands that should have released Javert once and for all.

It was my right to die as well, he reasons, embracing the cold darkness that is starting to sweep over him. Not even in death, the turmoil of his thoughts seem to come to rest. He loses feeling in his legs first, his arms quickly following, and then Javert stops fighting, for there is nothing left to fight for, anyway.

__

When he wakes, the pain is almost unbearable. It seems to be everywhere, in his fingertips and all the way down to his toes, pulsing through his legs and thrumming behind his eyes. His lungs seem to be the worst, by far. The smallest intake of a breath makes him feel like someone has cracked open his ribcage and he almost expects to find his own insides spread out all over his chest when he tries to glance down at himself. He does not manage to focus his gaze on anything, the pain exploding in front of his eyes, and perhaps, Javert thinks, he has managed to die after all. Perhaps he is paying for his final days now and this is the hellfire he has spent all his life avoiding.

Then, there is a hand against his forehead, so cold that Javert flinches, for he himself must be burning. “Shh,” a man says and Javert groans, overwhelming anger washing over him.“Be still,” the voice commands, fingers touching him again, forcing something down his throat that burns in his stomach. Hell would be less cruel, Javert thinks.

__

The next time he wakes, he cannot make out shapes. He knows his eyes are open, for light falls in and coats him in warmth, but his gaze seems to slip off any surface he could find. His body feels light this time and when he lifts his fingers, his hand is bigger than his whole body, despite the fact he can’t make it out. There is no pain either and maybe, just maybe, Javert dares to hope, he has finally died. He does not dare hope that he could have gone to heaven but he tries to chase the light anyway, leaning up and into it, only to be pressed back down by a strength that startles him. He flinches at it, warmth cupping his naked shoulder, and now he feels wetness running down his throat. He prays it is sweat or perhaps his own blood. Maybe Valjean has finally come to his senses and decided to stab him at last.

“The doctor will be back soon,” the man says and Javert drifts off again, feeling a thumb swiping over his cheekbones.

__

The third time that he wakes, he finds Valjean sitting on the mattress next to him. Javert wants to flinch back, wants to strangle the man at the same time, but his body feels like it is lying at the bottom of the Seine, with thousands of tons pressing him down. He feels like a cornered animal under the older man’s gaze, under the eyes of this convict that would be too gentle even for a saint. Valjean is watching him, a deep frown on his aging face, and Javert wants to shake him, wants to spit at him and bite him, wants to scream at him and throw him into the prison cell he longer seems to deserve. Instead of a scream, it is barely a sob that leaves Javert’s lips, burning in his throat.

“Are you from heaven or from hell?” he asks Valjean and the convict’s gaze softens once more, his lips giving a twitch at the question, as if Javert has amused him. “Neither, Javert,” Valjean replies, getting up from the bed and smoothing down his waistcoat, “I am a man of Earth and so are you, for it is God’s wish.”“God has nothing to offer to me anymore,” Javert spits out, acid in his mouth. Every word hurts his lungs, his lips, his tongue. “Hell will not have you, either, Inspector,” Valjean says calmly and Javert wants to puke at the title that he knows he no longer deserves.

__

The next time he wakes up, Javert feels like he is entering a scene he has not been part of before. The more conscious he becomes, the stronger he can feel that he is sobbing, curled up despite the pain that is shooting up his legs, fists clenched into the sheets that are covering his body. He does not dare wonder if he is naked beneath them, humiliation already creeping up his neck and flushing his skin. Just let me die, he wants to scream, yet it is another sob that leaves his lips instead. He does not know if Valjean is even there right now, the presence of the other man fleeting in this fever dream that he keeps slipping in and out of.

When he eventually turns around, he thinks it is Madeleine he sees sitting at the edge of his mattress, not Valjean. “M-Monsieur le Maire,” Javert stammers, looking at the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, this man that bears a gentleman’s name but a convict’s face. There is a shadow cast across the mayor’s face and Javert feels his heart hammering underneath his ribs. “Javert, your fever is rising again,” he says with the same patience the mayor used to bring up for Javert’s reports on the latest crimes in Montreuil-sur-Mer, “let me give you more of the medicine.”

There’s a scratch running down the older man’s throat, disappearing beneath the hem of his shirtsleeves and Javert can’t help but wonder if that is his doing, although he can’t remember scratching his nails across the mayor’s skin. Madeleine seems to notice his glance and offers a hesitant smile in return, straightening the collar of his shirt until the scratch is nothing but an impression left on Javert’s mind.“The medicine, Inspector,” the mayor reminds him and Javert feels anger flare up inside of him again.

“I was right about you,” he spits out, baring his teeth at the man, “you may fool this whole town but you cannot fool Javert any longer.”Madeleine’s eyes trail over him, a mixture of worry and amusement lighting them, “Please let me give you the medicine, Javert.”The younger one pushes himself up on his elbows, ignoring the pain that shoots up his spine, before he curls his fists into the fabric of the other man’s shirtsleeves. “Just kill me, 24601, your sort is made for that.”

Javert is almost satisfied when it is no longer the mayor Madeleine that looks at him now, instead finding 24601’s wild gaze directed at him. “Kill me now, I know it is what you long to do,” Javert says, his fists still tightly wrapped around Valjean’s collar, until he feels the older one’s hands closing around his own wrists.

Jean-le-cric, they used to call him in Toulon. A man stronger than any other, more dangerous than anyone else, too. Javert has seen what his hands can do, first in prison and then later, years later, when the mayor had lifted a cart off a dying man. The grip of Valjean’s hands around his wrist is firm, almost painful, and Javert wishes these hands would close around his neck, tightening without mercy.

Instead, one of Valjean’s hands finds the side of his face, brushing a sweaty strand of long hair back behind his ear. “Your anger is a good sign, Inspector,” Valjean mumbles, “it means life is coming back to you.”His fingers are warm against Javert’s face, blood rushing in his ears, and Javert thinks of the years he has spent hunting this man, the gentleness of his touch such a stark contrast to the whiplash scarring Valjean’s back, if not by Javert’s own hands, then by his command.

“Kill me,” Javert breathes, desperation welling up inside him while he keeps holding onto the other man’s shirt, “please, just kill me.”

__

Valjean does not kill him.Instead, he brings him more medicine, forcing it down Javert’s throat with words too gentle when Javert tries to fight back. He comes back with a doctor, too, who speaks to Javert as if they have met before, although he does not remember. He would remember the pain he feels when the doctor looks after his legs, he thinks, but then he passes out again and barely recalls their meeting by the time he wakes up again.

He is in the midst of glaring at Valjean across the room, too weak to argue with the man, when a blonde girl appears in the doorframe, wiping all words from Javert’s mind. “Papa?” the girl, almost a woman, asks, her wide eyes darting over at Javert with careful curiosity. “Yes, Cosette?” Valjean replies, crossing the space to the door, and Javert can tell that Valjean tries to coax her out of the room. “You said he is improving in health, I wanted to see for myself,” the girl says, a stubbornness in her voice that rings familiar. Her eyes meet Javert’s again and he freezes under her gaze.“I could read to him,” she says, her words directed at Valjean, “you used to read to me when I was sick. And I’ve been reading to Marius.” Valjean scratches the back of his neck, his whitening hair curling a little at the nape. His voice is soft and quiet when he speaks, “That is a lovely idea, Cosette, but I fear Inspector Javert would not appreciate your care the way Monsieur Pontmercy does. Let us speak of it later, ma petite.” “But Papa - …” the girl starts to protest, shooting Javert another glance, who does not dare to move in the bed that has become his prison. “Later, Cosette,” Valjean says softly, closing the door in front of her face with a slightly pained expression on his face.

For whatever reason, it has not quite fazed Javert before that the room he is being held captive in must be inside Valjean’s home. Now, his eyes narrow at the sight of Valjean, following the man’s every footstep when he turns towards the bed with a jug of water in his hands. “That girl,” Javert says, his voice coming out hoarse, “is the girl you stole all these years ago.”Valjean seems to flinch at his voice, tension stiffening his body, before the patience of a saint seems to grab hold of him again. The corners of his lips twitch a little when he meets Javert’s gaze.“If it brings you peace to think of it like that…” “She calls you Papa,” Javert mutters, “the girl thinks she is your daughter.”Valjean’s gaze is piercing, his white hair framing his face in the morning sun like a halo.

“The girl’s name is Cosette and she would have died had I not stolen her,” Valjean says, straightening his shoulders. “She is my daughter and the greatest gift I could have received,” the man adds then and Javert swallows. Of course Valjean would think of it like that. “She is the daughter of a woman that was not only a whore but a criminal as well,” Javert says and part of him thinks, hopes, that his words will finally break Valjean’s patience, that the man might just reach over and kill him now for what he has said.

But instead, Jean Valjean meets his eyes, searches them for something that Javert cannot put a finger on, and almost smiles at him.“I hear she is not the only one,” Valjean says and Javert’s breath gets caught in his throat, his pulse spiking. His heart is hammering hard and fast at the words that the other man has so casually let slip and Javert remembers it, remembers telling Valjean that he used to live in a prison, for he is from the gutter, too.

“The world is not just black and white,” Valjean says softly, leaning forward with a cup of water in his hands, “I thought you had realized that by now, Inspector.” Javert’s hands are shaking by the time he reaches out to take the water from fingers that seem to belong to both a convict and a saint.

__

“It has been a while,” Valjean says, a fresh robe and a towel in his hands, “I will help you into the tub, if you let me.”Javert stares at him from the bed, clasping the sheet.“If you let me?” he echoes, a sneer in his tone. Valjean lets out a sigh that is so quiet that he almost would have missed it. Javert remembers that he has been washed before, by gentle hands that make a flush spread on him when he thinks about it now. “The heat will be good for your body,” Valjean urges, “and for your demeanour.”Javert snorts, crossing his arms in front of his body. “Where is that ominous tub you speak of? Am I finally allowed to leave the room?” Valjean shoots him a glance, the wrinkles around his eyes deepening, “You could have left this room whenever you wanted to, had it been your wish.”

“Hah,” Javert lets out, for both of them know that his legs would not have carried him anywhere. “You can also lie there until you smell of the sewers again,” Valjean says and Javert’s gaze snaps up. It is the first time that the other man has mentioned the sewers, the memory of that evening still all too present on Javert’s mind. It is hard to tell how many nights have passed since then but nothing could scrape his memories of the look on Valjean’s face when Javert had awaited his own death by the hand of the man he had chased for decades.

The look in the older man’s eyes is almost challenging when their gazes meet again and Javert groans, eventually.“I will take the tub,” he utters, “perhaps I can drown myself in it, at last.”

There is a triumphant smile playing on Valjean’s lips when he looks at him next and it adds to the heat Javert feels spreading down his back. It seems to extent when he feels Valjean’s hands on his arm, helping him out of the bed. It is the first time that he is putting any weight on his legs and they almost give in under him, was it not for the way Valjean wraps an arm around his waist before he could. Javert is suddenly more than glad for the nightshirt he must have been put into at some point, gritting his teeth while he hobbles over wooden floors into what must be the kitchen.

“Where is the girl?” he asks, staring at the steaming tub of hot water that is standing in the middle of the small room, for he cannot imagine Valjean has prepared all of it.“She is watching over another victim of the night at the barricades,” Valjean replies, the vibration of his voice spreading through Javert’s body. He has sweated in the bed, despite the fever having broken a while ago, and he now shivers in the open air, stripped of the sheets that have been covering him the past days. The prospect of sinking into the warmth of the tub makes him shiver some more, a sigh dropping form his lips.

They come to a halt in front of it, the steam already wetting Javert’s face a little. He hesitates, while Valjean’s hands do not leave his body yet. “Is it too much for a man to have some privacy?” he growls and Valjean gasps quietly, amusement on his face when Javert looks over at him. “You’re being serious,” the older one says, catching the look on the Inspector’s face. “Inspector, you are aware that I have - …”“Yes,” Javert snaps, cutting of the convict’s words, “believe me, I am aware.”

Valjean raises an eyebrow in silence, his gaze trailing over Javert’s covered body for a moment, and the younger one grits his teeth a little harder. “At least turn around,” Javert orders in what he hopes is his best prison-guard voice, although the shiver in his tone betrays him. “You will fall over,” Valjean says gently, worry in his eyes now, and Javert glares at him. “Close your eyes, then,” he mutters and a smile tugs on Valjean’s lips, the wrinkles around his eyes becoming more prominent again, but he follows Javert’s order.

He struggles out of the nightshirt he is wearing, Valjean’s hands only leaving his arm for a fraction of a second until he has slipped out of it. When he senses that Valjean is about to open his eyes again, Javert growls. Valjean laughs quietly. “I have been to prison, Inspector. I have seen all sorts of men.”Javert feels his breath hitch in his throat and he wonders if he is making a fool of himself by not wanting the other man to look at him. “I am aware,” he says, for he remembers the days in Toulon all too well. It had been nothing out of the usual for convicts to be strip-searched or for them to be naked under a whip, nothing out of the usual for the guards to revel in a prisoner’s shame, either. Javert himself, he had only ever looked and nothing more, had looked at broad shoulders and muscles straining under tanned skin. He had recognised it for the sin it had been, anyway.

Valjean looking at him would be anything but a sin, he thinks.It would be the act of a saint, the innocent glance of a doctor, seeing injury and age and, perhaps, a hint of pity. It would be nothing like Javert’s own gazes that had lingered despite his duty, gazes that had taken in images that would hunt him down later, both in nightmares and their opposite. He does not need Valjean to know that. He would rather die than tell him.

The former convict’s grip on him strengthens a little, despite his eyes being closed, when Javert carefully dips a foot into the steaming warmth of the tub. He can’t help the moan that escapes his lips, the water still a little too hot but therefore just right, and he lowers himself into the water with a groan.

“You may open your eyes again,” he says, harshly, now that the water is covering him, distorting the light of the candles flickering in the kitchen of Valjean’s flat. The water is so hot that it turns his skin a shade of pink but it seems to ease the tension in his body, releasing knots he hasn’t even felt anymore. “Do you want me to leave the room?” Valjean asks him and Javert isn’t sure if the older man is being sincere or joking with him. There is a smile in his voice but Javert doesn’t dare meet his gaze, crossing his legs under water.“So you can take the chance and escape?” he asks, the laugh coming from Valjean in response startling him a little. “Escape from what? My own home?” Javert growls, feeling how his wet hair is clinging to his skin where it is falling past his shoulders.

“You may arrest me when you’ve recovered, Inspector,” Valjean says and his words make Javert look over at him now, his hands grabbing the edge of the tub until his knuckles turn white. “Do not be foolish,” he snaps and watches how Valjean shifts until he is sitting on the floor, his muscles moving underneath his clothes despite his age. His face is a little flushed from the heat of the water, too, condensation glistering on his lips. “I told you where you would find me after the fall of the barricades and I meant it,” Valjean says slowly, his attentive gaze resting on the Inspector. “I had no wish to arrest you that night and I do not wish to do so now,” Javert manages to get out, the words scratching in his throat. He can feel how the heat of the water is getting to his head, his eyes trailing over the man sitting next to him. “Many things have changed since that night,” Valjean says quietly and Javert shakes his head.“Nothing has changed.”“You wanted to end your life that night,” the older one says in a soft voice and Javert grits his teeth, looking up at the ceiling. He wishes he could see the stars through it and Valjean seems to follow his gaze.

“I still do not wish to continue the life I’ve led,” Javert eventually says, when he did not think himself capable of an answer anymore. Valjean remains quiet at that and after a few more minutes, Javert can hear Valjean shifting again. He must have closed his eyes at some point, his head having fallen back against the edge of the tub, and he jumps when he suddenly feels Valjean’s fingers gliding through his hair, the man now sitting behind him.“The night at the barricades took enough innocent lives,” he says, “I am glad yours was sparred.”It sends his heartbeat racing, as it should, Javert thinks, with a criminal having escaped his sight, and his breath stutters some more when Valjean’s fingers start untangling his long strands.

“Shh,” the man mumbles soothingly, apparently having sensed Javert’s stiffness, “do not move, I have enough experience with Cosette’s locks to know that only makes it worse.” Javert tightens his grip on the tub, his pulse hard and fast, while Valjean’s fingers glide through his hair again. He tries not to think about the fact that his throat is exposed to a criminal right now, despite his wish to die by said criminal’s hands for the past days.

The thought that he is sitting here, at the mercy of 24601’s strength, almost draws a hysteric laugh from him. He wonders if it is the mayor’s gentleness that brushes over the back of his neck, making Javert shiver. Madeleine had always been a man of elegance, a man of the light and of the good, perhaps only the false name of a presumed whore a hint at his true self. It is easy to imagine the mayor sitting behind him now, the steady hands untangling Javert’s dark hair the same hands that had taken reports from the Inspector or signed Montreuil-sur-Mer’s prosperity. They are 24601’s hands too, though. Hands that were bound by iron chains for 19 years, hands that scraped the dirt and bled under hard labour and the punishment that came each time that 24601 escaped Toulon. Javert has seen the scars and he can barely believe 24601’s hands would be gentle enough to hold his hair and brush over the flushed skin of his neck. Perhaps, he thinks, this is the convict’s chance at long-planned revenge; lull him into a false sense of security to then break his neck when Javert no longer expects it.

The thought makes him shiver, before he feels fingertips lightly scraping his scalp, massaging his head to rinse his hair of the sweat and dirt from the past days in bed. It must have been weeks, he thinks. They are 24601’s fingers and the mayor’s hands and yet none of them at all, for the name that escapes Javert’s lips in a strangled breath is an entirely different one.

“J-Jean - …”

The next time the girl comes into his room, she brings him a vase with flowers. Javert stares at the plants as if it is just another of his hallucinations. The girl must have misread his silence, for she shoots him an apologetic smile, placing the vase on the windowsill before smoothing down the front of her dress. The motion involuntarily reminds him of Valjean. “My apologies, Inspector. They do not look like much because the earth is dry as stone. Papa tries his best to water the garden whenever he can but he has been - …” she trails off, colour appearing on her cheeks, “he has been busy, lately.”Javert blinks at her before his gaze finds the flowers again. He’s never understood why people give flowers as a gift. They’re impractical and barely live longer than a few days and what if he had an allergy? Foolish girl.

He feels his eyebrows knotting up, his throat dry from not having spoken in a while. He feels like the flowers on the windowsill, with their hanging heads and ruffled blossoms. “They are Papas favourite, I thought you might like them as well,” the girl offers with a smile that reminds him of her fath – damn it, Javert thinks. He might as well think of her as Valjean’s daughter in lack of a more practical term. “They will do,” he croaks out, feeling the hint of guilt at the lack of politeness, but he is met with an amused grin on the girl’s – Cosette, he reminds himself – face.

“Your legs are improving in strength, are they not, Inspector?” Cosette asks him and Javert gives her a weary smile. He is sure it must look like a snarl. He nods briefly.“Well, if that is so, then you should join me or Papa in the garden shortly! Fresh air will do you good,” she has taken a step closer to the bed, the smile still lighting up her face. It makes Javert uncomfortable – has he not signalled her his aversion at every chance?“I think V - …” he bites his tongue, swallowing hard, “your father is already forced to spend more time with me than he wishes, so I will not put that burden on either of you.”

He feels Cosette’s bright gaze on him and even though he is quite sure that she has grown up sheltered from Valjean’s past, he spots more of his wit in her glance than he is comfortable with.“Has he given you that impression?” she asks him, blowing a strand of blonde hair out of her face, and Javert opens his mouth, ready to snap a reply at her, when the door to his room suddenly opens.

“Javert, the doctor - …” Valjean starts, his eyes then widening when he sees that Cosette is present as well. For the split of a second, Javert is certain to make out fear in the older man’s gaze, but he seems to catch himself quickly.“Cosette,” he says, the dark edge to his tone perhaps only audible to Javert, “we have spoken about this.”The girl lets out a sigh, “I know, Papa. But look, I thought the Inspector might enjoy the sight of flowers to help with his recovery!”Valjean’s eyes find the vase on the windowsill, his face softening visibly for a moment, before Javert thinks to spot amusement in his gaze when the ex-convict’s eyes briefly meet his own.

“I am sure the Inspector appreciates your flowers,” Valjean says, the twitch of his lips barely visible to the human eye, but Javert catches it anyway. Bastard, he thinks. “But you will have to leave, anyway,” the man says and Cosette huffs quietly, which draws a raised eyebrow from her father when she pushes past him without another word.Valjean closes the door behind her, his hand sprawled across the wood for a few seconds while his head falls forward a little. Javert watches in growing curiosity how Valjean closes his eyes for a moment, a seemingly desperate attempt to collect himself, before he turns towards the bed.

“You don’t want the girl to be around me,” Javert deduces, before Valjean would have the chance to say anything. “I know I am not great company but - …”“That is not it, Javert,” Valjean says and for the first time, his voice comes out harsh. The older one seems to flinch at his own tone, straightening his broad shoulders immediately. A guilty flush creeps up his neck, settling on his face as a blush. Javert feels uneasy at the sight and he snorts quietly.“I doubt my company can be much worse than that of a convict,” he says, the words leaving his lips with a snarl that sounds fake to his own ears, but Valjean’s gaze snaps up at his words.Oh, Javert thinks. He stares back at the older man, finding an emotion in his eyes that he hasn’t seen in them in a while – is it anger? Hatred?

Javert swallows hard, sitting up with his back leaned against the headboard. “She does not know,” he mumbles, more to himself than to Valjean, but he does not need the other one’s confirmation to know that his assumption is true.“Not even – your name?” Javert asks, hearing the disbelief in his own voice. Valjean makes a noise that comes out like a strangled laugh, awkwardness written across his features. It is a bizarre sight.“What would I have told her?” he says, his voice quiet, as if he is scared that Cosette might be standing outside of the door. Both of them fall quiet, while Javert stares at the older man. It has been  a while since he has seen him as anything other than Jean Valjean. The last time Valjean had properly fooled him had been in Monteuil-sur-Mer and even there, Javert’s suspicions had proven true in the end. He has seen the different faces of Jean Valjean, the mayor and the convict, the criminal and the saint, the beast and now the father, and he feels a strange tug in his chest at the thought that Valjean has been hiding all of that from his daughter. “She believes in the good in the world,” Valjean says quietly, his voice trembling, “it would break her.”“I would have thought you had raised her to see the world in shades of grey,” Javert replies, his mouth too dry. “I have raised her to be honest and to believe in the good in people, yet I have raised her on a lie,” Valjean mumbles, “she would not forgive me and she would be right in it.”

Javert stares at the other man in disbelief, “Are you listening to yourself?” Valjean shoots him a confused glance.“You think you should not be forgiven?” Javert asks, a laugh bubbling up his throat, but he shoves it back down with force. Valjean does not reply to his question and Javert feels frustration rise within him. He had been willing to throw himself off a bridge at the realization that Jean Valjean, the man he had deemed a monster for decades, deserved forgiveness more than anyone he had come across, yet here the man was, torturing himself.

“You should have told me, you fool,” Javert barks out instead, shaking his head, “I almost called you by your real name in front of her earlier.”The colour is back in Valjean’s cheek within the blink of an eye, avoiding his gaze.“I have no right to ask that of you,” the older one says, straightening his spine. “You have every right to ask that of me,” Javert mutters, his pulse quickening. 

__

“Would you take me to the garden with you?” Javert asks Valjean one morning and he almost regrets asking when he sees the surprise that flashes across the other man’s face at the question. Javert quickly looks away, “Cosette proposed it. She thought the fresh air might be beneficial to my recovery.Valjean eyes him for a while, the seconds trickling by in the dense heat of the Parisian summer, and Javert feels like he is aware of every patch of his skin that Valjean is looking at.

“Very well,” the older one says eventually, nodding slowly, “perhaps in the evening. The air is more pleasant then.” It is agreed, then. By the time late afternoon rolls around, Javert wraps himself in the fresh clothes Valjean has laid out for him. They are too big on him, the shirt revealing his collarbone while constantly threatening to slip off his shoulder, and he misses his uniform, along with his coat. He has ruined both with his jump into the Seine and he tries not to wince at it.At least the loose shirt Valjean has lend him makes the heat bearable. It is only a trip to the garden, barely more than a few steps through the house, but it’s not like Javert had anywhere else to be these past weeks, so he might as well look presentable. He is strong enough to brush his own hair by now, taking the comb either Cosette or Valjean must have placed next to the washbasin of his room. He untangles some particularly stubborn strands and then decides against tying all of them. Instead, he secures the upper part of his hair at the back of his head, the rest of it flowing freely down his shoulders. He pushes the sleeves of the shirt up to his elbows, the warmth of the day still lingering in the house, before he makes his way outside his room. From time to time, Valjean still helps him move into the kitchen, but with enough patience, Javert manages on his own by now.

He knows the way out into the garden, although he has never made it before, and when he eventually reaches the door, he has to blink against the light of the setting sun, his eyes not quite used to that level of brightness after weeks of being inside. He takes another step and feels a soft breeze hitting his skin, playing his with hair, and Javert can’t help the sigh that escapes his lips. While the shirt Valjean has given to him is too big, the pants are too short, his ankles bared and he hasn’t made the effort to put on shoes, anyway. The dry ground feels hot underneath the naked soles of his feet, dusty too, and Javert grimaces a little. He finds Valjean in the shadow of one of the trees in the garden, kneeling in the dry earth and pulling on what seems like a particularly stubborn weed.

“Some men would say this is prison labour all over again,” Javert says and Valjean jumps at his voice, looking up at him from where he is kneeling on the ground. “Those men certainly have not been to prison, then,” the older man eventually replies and Javert’s gaze trails over the convict’s dirty hands, his fingers still pulling on the weed. “No,” Javert says, his voice rough, “no, I suppose they have not.”Valjean shoots him a small smile that the younger one can’t make sense of, before the other man points at the bench that is standing under one of the trees close-by.“Sitting will be easier on your legs.”“My legs are just fine,” Javert barks out, more on instinct than anything else, and Valjean looks up from his weeds for a moment. Javert holds his gaze, suddenly feeling like he has ended up in a game of chess he knows he will lose.

He lets himself fall down onto the bench with a huff, eventually. It draws a satisfied smile from Valjean, his lips moving and the skin around his eyes crinkling, and Javert kicks a loose stone on the ground. He watches how it jumps over the hard ground that hasn’t seen rainfall in a while and his gaze eventually finds Valjean again. “Wouldn’t it be easier to simply… let the garden rest, until the weather comes back to its senses?” Javert asks, the garden quiet apart from the ruffling of leaves in a light breeze that yet doesn’t manage to cool his body. Valjean chuckles quietly, as if Javert has made a joke, “And let all of it die?”Javert squints at the bushes of roses sprouting around them, “If they are not strong enough to survive the drought on their own? Then by all means, yes.”Valjean makes another amused sound, reaching for a tool that is lying on the ground next to him. Javert doesn’t know much of gardening and he has no intent to change that. Nevertheless, he watches how Valjean makes use of it to scratch the ground, the muscles of his arms straining under the shirt that is clinging to his sweaty body until he eventually pulls out the root with a triumphant smile gracing his features.

“It is in my capacity to water them and keep them alive, Inspector. Hence, isn’t it my duty to do so?” Valjean’s voice is light but Javert doesn’t miss the undertone of it, making him snort. “Only a fool like you would think it his moral duty to waste water on indulgences as fleeting as these.” “Nothing in this life is meant to last, Inspector,” Valjean replies calmly, his thumb brushing over the dry earth he has just torn, as if he wants to mend it back together. It is entirely ridiculous. “That only proves my point,” Javert mutters.Valjean looks at him again, a strand of whitening hair falling into his face. He brushes it back with his fingers, leaving a stripe of dirt across his brows. It makes Javert’s hands itch and he clasps them together in his lap. “Does it?” Valjean asks him, eyes almost golden in the setting sun, “I would rather think it means that we shall hold on to the gifts life is granting us.” “You should let them die, Valjean,” Javert snaps, “they will freeze to death when winter comes, anyway. You are wasting your time and efforts.”

The other man eyes him with something close to curiosity for a moment and Javert feels tension rise in him, watching how Valjean suddenly gets up from where he has been kneeling. He does so with the effortless grace of a young man, perhaps only the strain on his face giving away his actual age for a moment. Javert feels his pulse quickening when the older man points at the space on the bench next to him.“May I?” he asks and Javert can’t remember giving an answer, but Valjean sits anyway, being every bit of the thief he has always been.

“Is that really what you think?” Valjean asks him and Javert has forgotten what they have been speaking of. “That I should stop watering them simply because they will not live forever?” the man adds, his dirt-stained trousers almost touching Javert’s own. Which are Valjean’s, too. Everything here is, Javert thinks, irritated. “What is the point?” Javert asks, his lips curling into a snarl while he watches Valjean’s face. He is unsure of the expression he finds on it. “They bring me joy as long as they last,” Valjean says, the smile on his face dimmer than it usually is, “it fills me with purpose to water them and watch them grow. They blossom under my hands and fill the garden with the most beautiful scent. Do you not see that, Javert?”

Javert feels his stomach curl up at the disappointment he reads on the other man’s face. He is unsure where it is coming from, suddenly tying up his vocal chords, his knuckles turning white from how hard he is pressing his hands together. “You let me go, that night at the barricades,” Valjean says, unexpectedly, “why, if everything is fleeting, anyway?”Javert feels entirely uncomfortable under the other man’s gaze, under the warmth that he does not feel he deserves. He has been 24601’s jailor, for God’s sake. He opens his mouth but there are no words that could leave his lips and so he snaps it shut shortly after, Valjean’s eyes still resting on him in the shadow of the tree above them.

“You did your hair,” the convict then says and Javert can’t help but huff, “why?”He stares back at Valjean and the backhanded question the man has asked him, as if he is trying to prove a point to him. “Just because existence is pointless and fleeting, a man might not want to look like a beast at all times,” Javert snaps and Valjean’s lips curl up now. “Well, I think it looks nice that way,” he says and Javert groans.“I do not care for the opinion of a convict.” “In that case, I think your hair looks terribly unfashionable,” Valjean says and Javert shoots him an exasperated glance that makes the older man laugh out loud. It is a rich sound that rumbles through Valjean’s broad chest while the man gets up, ready to go back to his roses and weeds. He hesitates for a moment, colour in his cheeks when he leans back into Javert’s space for a moment.

“A compliment is a compliment, Inspector, even from a convict.”

He makes sure not to wear his hair like that again the next time he encounters Valjean. Instead, he lets it fall down his back untamed, uncivilized, even, but the last thing he wants is another compliment from the man. Javert didn’t mean to leave his room, anyway, not really in the mood for company, but when the house grows quiet the following night, he dares to slowly make his way into the library on the hunt for something that will make the hours pass more quickly. Ever since the fever has gone down and he is no longer required to take the strong medicine, he has had trouble falling asleep, so he might as well read.

He hasn’t been in the library yet but Cosette has told him about it and, being a thief himself, Javert does not think Valjean is in the position to complain about him stealing a book or two. And he does plan on giving it back, although he’d prefer it if his nocturnal excursion would go unnoticed entirely. It’s been hours since the sun has set and everyone should be asleep by now – Javert included. It is why he almost stumbles over his own feet when he suddenly bumps into someone in the corridor leading towards the library.

“Ouh,” a voice rumbles and Javert lets out a curse before he can stop himself, the moonless night making it impossible to make out much in the dark. Not that there are many other men that would be wandering Valjean’s house at night, he presumes. “Inspector?” said man asks, surprise in his tone, and Javert realizes that Valjean is still holding on to his arm, as he must have grabbed it in order for him not to fall over. “Is everything okay?”

He hates the worry he can identify in Valjean’s voice and only manages to groan weakly in response. “I thought I’d find a book in the library,” he says, the words blurted out before he can stop himself. He’s never been good at lying. “Oh,” Valjean makes, after he is quiet for a heartbeat, “well, care to join me then?” Javert thinks about excusing himself but the prospect of another sleepless night in company of his own thoughts isn’t exactly appealing. He nods into the darkness and follows Valjean down the dark corridor.

The older man lights a candle once inside the library, the flame immediately illuminating his face in flickering, warm colour. Javert hurries inside, having a look around the room. There is a canapé equipped with dark red fabric standing under the only window of the room, bookshelves lining the wall except for the small fireplace that is of no use at this time of the year. “You can have a seat,” Valjean says, pointing at the small sofa that leaves barely enough space for another person, “I will - …”He waves his hand and Javert assumes that he will go back to his sleeping chambers after picking out a book. “Very well,” he says shortly, glad for the change of scenery from his own bedroom.

“Do you have anything particular in mind?” Valjean asks him and Javert eyes him for a moment, taking in the sight of the other man in his nightshirt. “I normally do not… read,” Javert says, drawing in a sharp breath. He can read, of course, but his literary skills are usually reserved for his work as an Inspector. He tries not to wince. Valjean gives him a warm smile, “I see. Mh.”He walks over to one of the bookshelves, his fingers ghosting over the bound spines. It looks like a gentle caress and Javert wants to glance away but doesn’t manage.

“What about the bible?” Valjean asks him and Javert is about to snort when he spots the smirk playing on the older man’s lips. He can’t help the chuckle that escapes his lips. It comes out as an ugly sound that makes him flinch. “Something more fictitious then, perhaps.”“Some would say - …”“Ah,” Valjean says, the smirk on his lips not yet having disappeared, “I know your tongue is loose, Inspector, but you should watch it nevertheless.”

Javert feels heat spread in his shoulders, wondering if anyone has ever called his tongue loose before. Valjean then pushes a book into his hands that Javert does not recognise. Neither the title nor the author ring a bell and he waits for the man’s explanation. “It is a crime story. Perhaps it revitalizes your spirit.”“My spirit?” Javert echoes and Valjean nods, hazel eyes shimmering in the light of the candle. “Is it not your wish to return to your work, eventually?” “It has been my wish to return to the Seine, not my work,” Javert growls and Valjean shrugs his shoulders, a sigh leaving his lips.“You would arrest the Seine for not swallowing you if you could, would you not?”“It was not the Seine that denied me my death, Valjean.”“Ah,” the man makes, an apologetic smile creeping up his face, “I fear that is true.”

Javert hums, turning over the book in his hands before he sits down on the canapé. “It is a children’s book,” Valjean says, watching him.“I’m sure it is ridiculous,” Javert mutters, “all pieces of crime literature I have come across have been outrageously exaggerated.” “You would know,” Valjean replies and Javert barely managed to stop himself from rolling his eyes. “So what is the book about?” Javert wants to know, looking up at the older man, who is still standing in front of the bookshelf.“Don’t you want to read it to figure it out?”“I need to know if it will be worth it,” Javert replies and Valjean’s lips twitch. He runs a hand through his white hair, a bit longer than it has been just a few weeks ago. Surely, he will have it trimmed again shortly.

“It is about a thief that steals and gets arrested in the end,” Valjean eventually says and Javert raises an eyebrow.“That is it?”“That’s it.”Javert turns the book over in his hands. The cover is worn, the leather smooth under his fingers, as if it has been read many, many times. Valjean seems to have followed his thoughts.“It used to be one of Cosette’s favourites.”“I would not have thought to find this sort of literature in your home,” Javert mumbles and Valjean gives him a surprised smile. “Why?”Javert tilts his head, “The thief gets arrested in the end? No last-minute escapes? No tricks, break of paroles or false identities to escape his sentence? One might think this book is teaching morals.”Valjean stares back at him, his face unreadable for a moment, before a laugh escapes his lips. It makes his whole face light up and Javert watches with a funny feeling in his stomach how Valjean clasps his own. “A handsome Inspector saving the thief’s life last minute would have certainly seemed like a weak plot device to the readers,” Valjean says in between chuckles and Javert freezes on the small couch. Valjean surely, surely means this in a broader sense, for most fictional characters are described as ridiculously good looking, which is most definitely the joke Valjean is playing.

He does not dare to let his thoughts stray into another direction – handsome is surely the last word anyone would use to describe him. His own mother would have called him passable at best and Javert has been called ugly in more ways than he can recount. It is the one thing colleagues and criminals seem to agree upon.

He feels his face flushing hot, anyway, avoiding Valjean’s gaze as good as he can. “What a foolish Inspector that would be,” he mumbles quietly, blood rushing in his ears. He hears Valjean shuffling around until, out of the corner of his eye, he sees the man lowering himself onto the floor in front of the canapé. Javert wants to protest but his throat feels too tight to produce actual words. Valjean leans his back against the seat cushion of the couch, close to Javert’s legs that he has drawn up. He dares to glance up a little now, with Valjean facing away from him into the room. Despite the short distance between them, he can feel the warmth that is radiating from the other man, his nightshirt stretching over the shoulders that have barely shrunken with age. The collar is loose around Valjean’s neck, cut lower than the shirts he normally wears, and Javert feels himself stiffen at the sight of a scar that starts up high on the man’s neck, disappearing beneath the white fabric.

“I don’t think he would be foolish,” Valjean then says, his voice quiet but firm. He turns his head just lightly, his silhouette clear against the light of the single candle he has lit earlier. He doesn’t turn around fully and Javert is glad for it, not wanting to meet the other man’s gaze. The turn of his head has, however, made the collar of his shirt slip away a little further, more of the scarred skin of his back visible now, and Javert feels his stomach turn at the sight. To think that it has been him that has marked Valjean’s body like that, to think it has been him that has inflicted such pain on the man, not only failing to see the wrong in it but thinking it to be just.

His stomach tightens some more at the thought, his lungs painfully tight at the same time. He wishes he could remember the precise moments of the punishments of 24601, for perhaps then he could understand it better, could try to make sense of what he had been thinking. Yet, the cruel reality is that back in Toulon, it had been the most mundane thing in the world to have prisoners cry under the whip, to have them scream and bite and roar until their bodies no longer had the energy for it. Javert had never been one to indulge in the prisoners’ pain but he had barely spared it a second thought, either. They had been beasts, not men, fallen from society and therefore not worthy of his pity.

In his memories, all whippings blur into an indistinguishable mess of lashes, sometimes under blue skies with the sun burning down on them, from time to time with rain falling heavily, making the leather slip through gloved fingers. He wonders if Valjean remembers each and every one. With horror shooting through his body, Javert wonders if Valjean has any clear memories of him holding the whip, if that is all that Valjean sees when he looks at him now. To think that he has still fished Javert out of the Seine, that he has led him into his home, has brought him back from the dead instead of putting the bullet through his skull himself – it is incomprehensible for Javert.

His gaze finds the scars in Valjean’s neck again, such a harsh contrast to the soft skin of the man’s neck, of his throat and of his face. How can a body that has been through 19 years in Toulon still be capable of the gentleness Valjean has shown him all this time? How can his hands still care for another human being with affection instead of blind rage? He can’t help but wonder if Valjean has ever been touched by hands as gentle as his own or if the only contact his skin has ever known has been of iron chains and lashes.

Javert does not know what possesses him to lean forward and reach out. One second, his hand is resting in his lap, curled around the book, and the next, it is in Valjean’s neck, fingertips brushing over the thick scars. Valjean flinches as if he has been slapped, his head snapping around, and Javert draws his hand back with the speed of a bullet, horror filling every cell of his body. Valjean looks like a wounded animal, the muscles of his body tense and ready to either take flight or to kill, the wild fear in his gaze sending a wave of shock through Javert.

“Forgive me,” he says, not more than a whisper leaving his lips, “forgive me, I did not think, I have no right - …”The words die on his lips, shame and guilt washing over him. He knows he has made a mistake, that he has crossed a line, and for the first time in a while, he wishes he was back on that bridge. For a few moments, it is only his ragged breathing that seems to fill the room, with Valjean’s eyes still wide in horror.

Then, the convict’s lips eventually part, barely visibly so. Now is when Javert expects a yell. A shove, maybe, perhaps more, something that puts him into his place. He would deserve all of it, any remark about how he is to blame for the scars on Valjean’s back, how it is thanks to his cruelness only that men like 24601 have to suffer through this. Anything at all that finally has Valjean acknowledge that out of the two of them, Javert is the monster, the beast that would have so willingly, so consciously locked Valjean behind bars again, knowing what would follow. “I know they are repulsive,” Valjean says quietly, his voice trembling. It feels like something in Javert breaks. Valjean is still looking at him, the fear in his eyes slowly blurring into something that resembles shame. Javert feels like he can’t breathe, like he’s being pulled under water all over again, only this time, Valjean won’t come in to drag him up again. Silence stretches out like a thread that is meant to tear apart and Javert knows the point is nearing, knows that each second that passes without a word leaving his lips, Valjean mistakes his silence for disgust. He is disgusted, after all. It fills his entirely being, slithers under his skin until he wants to rip it off his body in thin stripes.

Valjean looks away at last, turning into himself, his face mirror of a confirmation he has apparently found in Javert’s own. “Valjean,” he croaks out, body so tense that even his fingers are cramping, “Valjean, I do not - …”The older man presses his eyes shut, as if he is trying to drown Javert out of his senses. “Valjean,” he says again, feeling desperation rise in him, “Jean.”

When his fingers touch the other man again, Valjean does not move, only turns stiff as stone under his touch. His fingertips are resting under the former convict’s chin now, feeling the light stubble that has barely broken through the skin yet from how Valjean has been shaving just earlier. Javert keeps his fingers there for a moment, his heart hammering in his chest. He does not feel like he is touching a man as dangerous as 24601, a man with the strength of four. Instead, he feels like he is holding a piece of glass that might shatter under his hands any second, something so delicate that he should not be allowed to touch it in the first place.His hands do not hold the gentleness that Valjean’s do, he does not know how to touch another person without force or the need to defend himself.

He thinks about how the only touch Valjean must have known in prison had surely been brought upon him to inflict pain. How long had the man gone without the warmth of human touch before he had found his daughter? How long had he been lacking the embrace of someone that cared for him?Javert tries not to think about how the only gentle touch he has felt in the past decades of his life has come from the man sitting on the floor in front of him now.Or perhaps, that is exactly what he thinks about.

An image of the previous day invades his mind, of Valjean’s thumb stroking the dry earth as if to apologize for the wound the torn-out roots had left behind. With a shaking heart, Javert turns his hand, his own thumb ghosting over the outline of Valjean’s jaw. A sharp intake of breath reaches his ears, before he feels an exhale fluttering against his fingers. “Tell me to stop,” he says, and it comes out as a plea.

Javert holds his breath, his pulse drumming against the bones in his body. Perhaps, Valjean doesn’t know he has the right to tell him to stop. He feels fear knotting his lungs, the way his fingers are shaking surely not escaping the other man’s notice, either.“Tell me if you wish me to continue,” he breathes out, each word underlined by his own fear that makes blood rush in his ears. Valjean turns his head now, causing the tips of Javert’s fingers to touch a spot below his jaw, where the man’s pulse is trembling against his hand quickly.

“You don’t have to do this, Javert,” Valjean says, his voice rough, the vibration of it reaching the younger one’s hand where it is curled around the convict’s jaw. His cheeks have turned a red colour that spreads down his neck and up into the tips of his ears and Javert takes all of it in. He waits for Valjean to say something else but Javert gets the growing impression that the man has never asked for a single thing in his entire life, that his tongue is entirely incapable of voicing what he wants instead of following the needs of others.“Is this unpleasant for you? Simply tell me as much and I will - …” Javert is about to draw his hand back, the skin of his face burning, when he suddenly feels Valjean’s hand come up to cover his own, holding it in place.

It makes his breath hitch in his throat, the older man’s hand warm against his, and he searches Valjean’s face, unsure what it is that he is looking out for. But there are still no words leaving Valjean’s lips, the older man’s eyes holding his gaze, and he seems to be so terribly afraid, seems to be just as scared as Javert feels himself. What is he even doing, he wonders. What are they doing? They are aging men, their fates entangled by the must cruel of pasts, only having escaped death at the barricades by sheer luck.

He holds Valjean’s gaze and feels like he can see his own reflection in their depths, in the surprise and the exasperation he reads in them. But there is something else, too. Something that makes Javert feel lightheaded, that makes him feel as if the fever has come back to him, after all. His heart is still hammering in his chest when Valjean’s hand suddenly lifts his own and before he knows what is happening, the other man is placing a soft kiss against his open palm.

The light brush of lips against his skin is enough to send a wave of shock through his entire body, his eyes widening while he is trapped by Valjean’s glance. It becomes clear that the man is waiting for a reaction, like a convict waiting for his sentence to be read.

Has he not bared himself enough already? Has he not put all of himself out for Valjean to see?He draws his hand back from Valjean’s lips and the other man’s hand with it, feeling the former convict’s eyes on him when Javert leans forward some more. The older one’s hand is warm in his own when he lifts it to his lips, closing his eyes when he awkwardly places his mouth against the knuckles of Valjean’s fingers. A shiver seems to take hold of the other man and Javert purses his lips a little against his skin.He is not familiar with kisses, scared of doing it all wrong, but he remembers how soft Valjean’s lips had felt against his palm, and just hopes, prays, that it feels similar for him now.

His lips make an embarrassing noise when he lifts them from Valjean’s skin again and he meets the older one’s eyes over their joined hands, his stomach spinning at the wetness that is glistering in them in the warm light of the candle. And because he feels bold, because Javert feels like there is no part of his soul that he has not bared in front of the man yet, he turns over Valjean’s wrist and presses his lips to the fading scar that runs around it.

For a moment, he is scared that Valjean will yank his wrist back, but instead, another shiver travels through the older one’s body, his breathing audible in the quiet library now. “It is my actions that are repulsive,” Javert mumbles against Valjean’s wrist, “not your body.”“It was your mere duty,” Valjean whispers, as if he does not trust his voice. Javert winces, tightening his grip on the other man’s hand.

“And it will take all the remaining years of my life to make right what I have done wrong,” Javert says, the promise resting heavy on his tongue. Valjean stares back at him with glistering eyes before his lips suddenly curl up, the smile that fills his face as warm as the first rays of sunshine after a long winter. “Does this mean I can allow you to leave this house and you won’t return to the Seine?” Valjean asks, their shared joke of Javert being held captive drawing a quiet huff from the younger one.

He swallows.“I have no desire to leave this house,” he whispers, “if you’ll have me.”