Title: Nothing Is Ever Easy with You
Work ID: 45971011
Author: crustashuns
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Canon, Post-Seine, Slow Burn, Hurt/Comfort, Other Additional Tags to Be Added
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


It had been some time since Jean Valjean had fished Javert out of the Seine. Javert estimated about three weeks, but the days blend together when you're confined to a bed. His flesh injuries had since healed for the most part, but walking and using his hands required some effort. Part of him suspected he'd never live alone again.

He chuckled. A thought like that would have set the old him over the bridge once again. But he wasn't that Javert. Not anymore. That Javert accomplished his goal of sinking into the depths of the Seine. Since then, well, Javert wasn't sure what was left of himself in the absence of The Inspector, but whatever he had become was a creation of Valjean's own hands. Astonishingly, Javert had grown fond of that old convict, something that would have The Inspector rolling in his grave. But then, Javert no longer cared what The Inspector thought. 

Javert was resting after a long day of walking practice. Today, he had made it all the way to the street! With Valjean's assistance, of course. The poor man held his arm the whole way down, with not even a grunt of annoyance. The kindnness made his stomach turn. Though it wasn't a bad feeling. Just a feeling. Javert seemed to be having a lot of those recently.

Then, it was time for their evening routine, which was almost like a ritual. Javert was never really a believer, but Valjean insisting on coming to Javert's bedside each evening for prayer. Javert did not protest. Valjean would then sit in his wicker chair which sat- as always- beside the bed, and they would talk. About everything, about nothing. Conversation was hard at first. Not only because Javert was unwilling, but also because no words could escape his throat, which had been made raw from nearly drowning, and so Valjean would simply talk at Javert, and Javert would simply nod in response.

Tonight, they spoke of Cosette, whose wedding day approached. Javert could not understand why Valjean withdrew himself from the poor girl's life, but at present, he was in no position to question his companion's decisions.

"I miss her every day," Valjean confessed. "I have not even brought myself to enter her room since her departure."

Javert only nodded at first, but after a moment, something dawned on him which made his stomach drop out. Cosette's quarters were where Javert assumed Valjean to have been staying, since he occupied his host's quarters. "...Valjean. Where have you been sleeping?"

The man looked at him as though he had asked where in the sky the sun hung. "On the sofa."

"Oh my- no." Javert reached out, grabbing his companion by the hands and pulling him into the bed. "You'll sleep here tonight, and that is that."

"Javert!"

"Yes. You are an old man. Too old to sleep on that awful thing you insist on granting the dignity of being called a sofa."

Valjean smiled. "I have slept on worse. When I was on the run."

There was a moment of quiet as Javert recalled the era which Valjean spoke of. He recovered, however, and continued his banter. "Yes. And look at you."

"And what do you mean to imply with that, Javert?" he gasped, feigning offense.

"That is of no matter to you at present. And it is decided. You will sleep in the bed that is yours." And with that, Javert dropped his head back onto the pillow beside Valjean's.

Valjean sighed, leaned over to extinguish the candle, then resigned to his fate.

It could not have been more than a few hours before Javert awoke again. His eyes fluttered open and light from the night sky filtered in, coating the room with a delicate shine. Though it was the beginnings of winter when the night began to bring a chill, he felt quite warm. With a start, he realized why. Taking the most careful of breaths, he assessed the situation. Valjean's arms and legs were entangled with his own, and he felt the man's steady breathing on his chest. Too steady.

"Valjean," he whispered. "Are you awake?"

"Yes," came Valjean's cool, sleep-laced voice. "And you?"

Suddenly Javert wasn't so sure. He considered the possiblilty that all this was simply a dream. And yet, every part of him felt so very awake. He didn't respond. Instead, he watched the light dance over Valjean's greying curls- he reached out to touch them and buried his hand in the softness.

It was quiet for a while.

"You're beautiful," Valjean said, softly. So softly, Javert wasn't sure he hadn't only imagined it.

He closed his eyes, stroking Valjean's hair. "Shh. The moonlight is playing tricks on your eyes."

Then a hand was on his face, running through his sideburns, around his ears. The touch felt warm. It felt right.

"Let the sun rise and I will repeat myself."

Javert recognized the tone with which the phrase fell from Valjean's tongue.

It was a prayer.

The words crashed over him like waves against the shore, settling heavy in those lungs of his which had long since stopped working the way they should. A finger traced his lips, forcing his eyes back open and his gaze fell upon the face of his saint. He wanted. The feeling weighed in his arms, his heart. He wanted. But it was too much, too fast, and the rushing blood in his ears sounded like the water of the Seine and suddenly Valjean's worshipping eyes burned on his skin- He looked away.

His hand found Valjean's wrist. "Jean, I can't. Not...not yet."

"Oh," Valjean pulled away, averting his eyes. "As you wish."

Javert's senses screamed. So terribly, he wanted to reach out for Valjean, indulge his Jean's every desire. And yet, he felt The Inspector clawing his way out of the river and onto the banks of Javert's conscience, hissing words of hate. Javert took each word silently and fell into a restless sleep.

yeah I wrote this in a composition notebook whilst suffering a migraine and also did Not spellcheck in the slightest so uh. yeah!