Title: Penance
Work ID: 43267008
Author: missbeehive63
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Spanking, Corporal Punishment, Hand Jobs, Abuse of Authority, this is gross sorry, old man sex, Under-negotiated Kink
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Javert was wrong. Javert was seldom, if ever, incorrect. He was a legal paradigm, carrying out his orders swiftly and objectively, not letting feelings get in the way of his duties. 

But now, he has failed. 

He has allowed his grudge against Jean Valjean to obscure rational judgement, and he has falsely accused him. He was so sure of himself… he can hardly spot the resemblance now. The respected Mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer a wretched Galley slave, what a fool he was! Javert feels shame unfurl in his gut at the thought of this accusation. He has no other choice but to reveal himself to the Mayor. It’s his responsibility as an agent of justice, for what good is justice if not delivered equally?

The Mayor, ever the kind and forgiving soul, promptly denies Javert's request to be dismissed. Javert should have expected no less.

“Monsieur Mayor,” Javert pleads, “you must dismiss me. It is only fair. Really, I ought to be punished.”

“Please, Inspector. This is a matter that concerns me. I see no reasons to press any charges-”

“You do not understand, Monsieur, surely, or you would send me away this instant. I denounced you - you the Mayor. My superior. I have committed a grave infraction as your inferior. I called you Jean Valjean knowing I had no evidence. I was unjustly angry at you, Monsieur.”

Madeleine shakes his head, looking frustrated. “And so you wish to be dismissed, then, for this infraction, Inspector? You are a very odd man; I don’t understand you. You have committed no other infringement except for the situation with the woman - and even then, still, you’re a fine officer. It is very strange. I’ve already pardoned you.”

“Monsieur I beg - please. I could not in good faith protect the streets of Montreuil-sur-Mer knowing I have committed such an awful thing. I was incorrect, I made a fatal error. I would resign, Monsieur, but resignation is too honorable. I ought to be punished, truly.”

“What’s all this about being punished, Inspector?” Madeleine rises from his chair and makes his way to Javert. “If you wish to be punished, all you have to do is ask.”

At Madeleine’s sudden close proximity, Javert can feel his heartbeat quicken and his face flush. He could not deny that the Mayor has always aroused certain feelings inside of him. He had long tried to submerge his more perverse desires into the farthest reaches of his mind, but always found them creeping up on him in the most inconvenient of times. Now was one of those times.

Madeline draws himself nearer and nearer to Javert until their chests are touching and he can feel the man’s beard tickling his chin. Then, just as soon as he had approached him, Madeleine retracts, turning towards the open door.

“If it’s punishment you ask of me,” the Mayor says, voice low, “then I might be able to sate your desire. All you have to say is yes.”

Javert feels as if the air has been sucked out of his lungs. His throat is suddenly dry - his legs tremble. What does Monsieur mean by punishment? he wonders, as the man has already made it clear he has no intention of dismissing Javert from his post. He supposes there’s only one way to find out.

“Yes,” Javert croaks, trying to imbue his voice with more confidence than he feels.

Madeleine hums, seemingly content, and closes the door behind him. He looks at Javert, giving him a quick once-over, and then - “Pull down your trousers, Inspector.”

Javert thinks he’s joking at first. He’s about to laugh - on the tip of his tongue are the words, You’re surely joking, Monsieur. But Javert takes one look at Madeleine’s firm gaze and knows he’s completely and utterly serious. Javert quickly unbuttons his britches, pulling them down to his knees, where his boots began.

“Your drawers as well, Inspector,” Madeleine commands. His voice sounds harsher than Javert had ever heard it before.

“Monsieur,” Javert says, his face quickly turning hot to the touch. “Monsieur Mayor, I-”

“Now, Javert.” 

That shuts him up. Tentatively, Javert pulls his drawers down to his knees. He feels exposed - he feels vulnerable, more vulnerable than he’d ever felt in his life. Javert's always had complete control over his life, it's strange to lend that responsibility to someone else for a change. He places his hand delicately over his member and averts his eyes from Madeleine’s.

“Turn around, Javert. And bend yourself over my desk.”

Javert acts out his instructions mechanically - it seems he is no longer in control of his body. Madeleine hasn’t even touched him yet, but he feels his cock beginning to stir.

When Madeleine appears behind him, pressing his body into Javert’s bottom, he can already feel the Mayor’s half-hard cock straining against his trousers, and it’s all he can do not to let out a moan. 

“Inspector,” Madeleine says, his breath laboured and voice raspy. “This is what I am going to do: I’m going to flog you. With my hand or with my cane - that is your decision. Which do you prefer?”

“I would prefer Monsieur’s hand,” Javert says, and this seems to please Madeleine. 

“Good,” he says. “Very well.”

He peels off one of his gloves and shoves it in between Javert’s teeth. Then, Madeleine wrenches Javert’s arms, pulling them together at the wrists, holding them down atop his arse so tight that Javert can’t wriggle out of his grasp. This almost inhuman strength - this is what has kept Javert awake at night, agonizing and fantasizing about these strong, calloused hands pinning him down. Javert notices his breathing quicken.

“Here is what’s going to happen,” Madeleine says. “I’m going to flog you, and you are going to count - you can count, can’t you? You can do that much?”

Javert nods his head as best he can in his position - with his head pressed against the desk.

“You’re going to count to ten. Ten times - you can handle that. You must say the number each time or I’ll be forced to start over. And you must be quiet. Bite down on my glove if you have to shout. Do you understand?”

Javert is about to nod his head yes when Madeleine’s hand lands harshly on his bared arse. 

It’s unlike any sensation Javert has experienced in his lifetime. He’s had his fair share of pain, being a guard in Toulon as a young man, but this feels different, somehow. Deliberate, possibly even delicate if such a word could be used to describe Madeleine’s actions. Javert can feel a puddle of drool form under his mouth and his cock twitch as he calls out, muffled by the glove, “One!”

He lets out a yelp the second time Madeleine’s hand comes down; he lets out a moan the third time; his back involuntarily arches on the fourth one - he craves more - and he can feel his cock start to leak. 

By the time they’re halfway through, Javert is fully erect, whimpering, and writhing under Madeleine’s tight grasp. His legs tremble, and his heart feels as if it might burst out of his chest.

He feels humiliated, being bent over and paddled like a schoolboy, but his mortification is overridden by his burning lust. He wants, desperately, to be good for Madeleine. He forces his legs to remain upright no matter how violently they shake. He forces himself to subdue his groans. He calls out every number after each smack without flaw.

It hurts dreadfully. Without looking, Javert can already tell that his arse is red and covered in handprints. Madeleine does not hold back. Javert knows he’ll have trouble sitting down later tonight. 

“Ten!” Javert cries out after Madeleine’s final smack. It’s sharp and painful against his buttocks. It stings, and Javert only now takes notice of the tears escaping from his eyes, getting caught in his eyelashes.

“Good… you’re so good Inspector,” Madeleine says breathlessly. “How could I ever dismiss you when you’re so gorgeous?”

Madeleine flips Javert over, still crying, glove still in his mouth. The Mayor graciously removes the glove, throwing it to the side, and kisses the skin under Javert’s eyes, licking away his tears.

“Monsieur…” Javert begins, but quickly realizes he has nothing to say. In lieu of words, he bucks his hips up desperately into the Mayor. Madeleine seems to catch on.

“What is it that you want Inspector?” He asks, and Javert feels mortification rush over him like a tidal wave. He’s going to make him beg for it.

“Please, please, Monsieur,” Javert whines. He can hear the humiliating neediness in his own words but he’s far too aroused to stop them from tumbling out of his mouth. “Please, sir, I beg you. I need you - I need more. Please, Monsieur.” 

This seems to satiate the Mayor, and he grabs Javert’s hardness, brushing his thumb over his tip. Javert’s cock, flushed and red and swollen, is now steadily leaking a white fluid. He thrusts himself desperately into Madeleine’s hand, whining, clinging onto the desk for stability. He feels light-headed. He feels nauseous. He feels better than he ever has in his life. This isn’t much of a punishment, really.

Madeleine pulls Javert's foreskin down, then back up again. He repeats this motion again and again until Javert comes to a head, until Javert can see stars and his vision is blacking out and his seed is spilt over Madeleine’s hand and waistcoat.

Javert can feel every muscle in his body relax, and it’s almost like his body is coming undone and melting into the floor. While he regains his bearings, he can faintly make out the sounds of Monsieur Mayor grunting, palming at the bulge in his trousers. He looks exquisite, his usually soft and gentle face now flushed and sharp - his eyebrows creased downwards, his lips red, the only sound coming from him are animalistic grunts. Javert feels privileged to be permitted to view such an indecent sight. 

When Madeleine finally seems to have reached his peak, he collapses, breathless, on the desk next to Javert. 

Javert, through no choice of his own, turns to the Mayor - his superior - and gives him a tentative peck on the lips. He’s not sure what compelled him to do such a thing. He would never even dream of it in any scenario other than the one he currently found himself in. Madeleine, thankfully, reciprocates. 

It’s a disgusting sight to see. Javert’s britches are pulled down to his knees still, and his behind is red and throbbing; the respected Father Madeleine looks similarly disheveled - his trousers have a dark patch near his crotch, his face is sweaty, and his hair is mussed. But Javert feels a sort of love swell inside of him that certainty wasn’t present in his life before.