Title: pull me close into you
Work ID: 51299008
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Intercrural Sex, Established Relationship, Fluff, Romance, Old Married Couple, Post-Seine, Kinktober 2023, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Javert stretched and groaned beside him, body still heavy and lethargic with the last remnants of sleep. Valjean shuffled across the mattress, winding his arms around Javert and tugging that long and lean body closer, Javert’s back pressed up against Valjean’s chest. Valjean buried his face into the corner of Javert’s neck and shoulder, nosing at the waterfall of hair that lay fanned out across the pillow.

Valjean could still remember, distantly, a very young guard and his long, dark hair—already somewhat unfashionable, even then—shining in the unforgiving sunlight beating down upon the bagne. And later, then, Javert’s tidy queue and prodigious sideburns had still been dark and thick in Montreuil. By the time Valjean had glimpsed Javert again at the Gorbeau House, and again still—at the barricades—Javert’s hair had been shot through with numerous strands of glinting silver.

Now, Valjean buried his face and breathed in against a riotous tangle the color of gunmetal. The grey shone even in the watery, predawn light of an early February morning, their curtains not yet drawn back to greet what would likely be another cold, blustery day that set Valjean’s joints to aching, and gave Javert a subtle cough he could never quite ward off during the winter months.

But they were yet cocooned in the lingering warmth of their shared body heat beneath the quilts, and it would be another few hours before they would be expected at breakfast, or begin to prepare for the day’s schedule, and Javert was solid and relaxed and indulgent in his arms. 

“Oh,” Javert said, his voice low and rough as he shook off the final vestiges of sleep. “I thought we might rest some more, but it would seem—” he shifted his hips back, his backside making contact with the rising swell of Valjean’s cock, “—that parts of you are quite awake already.”

Valjean’s arms tightened in their hold around Javert’s chest, and he couldn’t help but press a kiss, and then another, at the soft and delicate skin of Javert’s nape. “My apologies,” Valjean said, his words warm and teasing. “We can go back to sleep if you wish.”

Javert’s hips hitched back against Valjean’s erection again, his hands drifting upwards to lay atop the protective grasp of Valjean’s arms, still strong as a man half his age. “I said nothing of the kind,” Javert murmured, his own speech growing breathy as he felt the heat of Valjean’s length drag against the cleft of his arse. “So long as we don’t move around too much yet. I’m quite comfortable where I am.”

Valjean huffed a laugh, nodding against the back of Javert’s head. “I have no objections to staying tucked up under the covers with you, my dear.”

Without any particular aim nor purpose in mind, Valjean pulled one arm away from its coiled embrace around Javert’s chest to run his hand through the cascade of Javert’s hair instead, stroking lightly through the gentle, silvering waves that Javert would inevitably tame with comb and riband. Javert shivered in Valjean’s grasp, tilting his chin up to angle his gaze over one shoulder, meeting Valjean’s eyes with his own half-lidded, indolent; shimmering with fondness and a growing heat.

“Jean,” Javert murmured, his head moving to follow Valjean’s hand as it stroked along the curve of Javert’s skull, down the smooth lines of Javert’s neck. “Jean,” Javert’s hands still clutched at Valjean’s arm around his chest, and Valjean allowed his fingers to move from where they twined in Javert’s hair to slide over Javert’s shoulders, and dip beneath the blankets to feel the solid warmth of the other man’s ribs, his waist through the thin material of his nightshirt. Valjean idled at Javert’s hips for a moment, pressing his pelvis firmly against Javert’s, picking up where Javert’s lazy rocking had left off to grind his cock slowly, deliberately along the warm dip between Javert’s cheeks.

Javert relaxed his body entirely against Valjean’s, limp against Valjean’s chest so that it was Valjean’s arm that held him in place, Valjean’s hand that directed Javert’s hips where Valjean wanted them to go. Javert’s thighs fell open around Valjean’s knees tucked up behind him.

“It’s tempting,” Valjean admitted, mouthing kisses against the back of Javert’s neck. “But I am afraid if I took you now, you would be rather stiff and sore for the rest of the day, and we had planned to walk to Luxembourg with the children.”

Javert breathed a long, low groan into the crook of Valjean’s arm that he suspected had less to do with Javert being denied slow, sleepy, early morning lovemaking and more to do with the idea of corralling several young and excitable Pontmercy children out of doors all through what would likely be a brisk and windy afternoon.

“I had forgotten,” Javert admitted to the patch of Valjean’s arm his face was still pressed against. “We should have gone back to bed after all, but now I’m—awake, as well.”

Valjean felt the skin of Javert’s neck beneath his lips warm at the admission, and with familiar intent Valjean’s hand crept across Javert’s hips down beneath his nightshirt, pushing the fabric up and over Javert’s thighs, so that Valjean might reach between the press of Javert’s legs and feel the heady weight of Javert’s own length cupped within Valjean’s broad palm.

“So you are,” Valjean agreed. “We shall have to do something about our situation, or it will be a long time until evening indeed.”

Javert gave a dry chuckle in response, and moved to shift his position—to roll over and face Valjean, perhaps, so that the other man could take them both in hand; or Javert could hitch one leg over Valjean’s thigh and lean forward to press their mouths together, and they could watch each other stroke themselves to completion instead. But Valjean’s arm did not budge in its possessive loop around Javert’s chest, and his hand strayed from its idle stroking along Javert’s cock to return to holding fast to Javert’s hip.

“Jean,” Javert said, bemused. “You just said—”

“Shh,” Valjean murmured into that long waterfall of silver and iron that he loved so much. “Stay where you are; just let me grab the oil…”

Javert felt his eyebrows creep up his forehead despite himself, his eyes following Valjean as the other man stepped away—hissing at the cold rush of morning air, and letting rather more in under the blankets than Javert and his bare backside had been anticipating—before crawling back into place, returning to his former position behind Javert’s back and with one arm wrapped around him, too rapidly for Javert to question him further.

In the next moments Javert heard the rattle of glass and faint pop of rubber as Valjean unstoppered the bottle of scented oil they kept innocuously on top of their dresser, and felt the touch of slick fingertips along the inside of his thighs, and understood at once.

“Yes, yes, oh, exactly that,” Javert sighed, spreading his legs just enough for Valjean to coat the seam between his upper thighs until the skin there was shining and slippery with oil. Javert’s body trembled beneath Valjean’s touch, Valjean’s fingers dragging across sensitive nerve endings and through the smattering of hair that rose beyond Javert’s knees.

Once Valjean was satisfied he had left Javert’s thighs sufficiently wet and yielding, he rucked up his own nightshirt and spread the remainder of the oil along his length and patted at Javert’s knee, encouraging the other man to close his legs and hold them tightly together. Javert obeyed wordlessly, although he couldn’t bite back a breathless moan of anticipation as he felt the first nudge of the fat, blunt head of Valjean’s leaking cock pressing forward into the warm, snug space he had made for himself between Javert’s thighs.

“Oh. Javert,” Valjean breathed, reverent, as he felt Javert’s skin and muscle hot and slick around the first thrust of his cock; the taut, trembling press of Javert’s legs clamped tightly together. It had been some time since they had last tried this, and Valjean had forgotten all the ways it felt so very different and all the ways it felt so very similar to their more usual lovemaking. He had forgotten what it was like—just a few dabs of oil, and then to sink down, sliding easily into the warm, wet grip between Javert’s legs.

“Jean,” Javert panted, his voice pitched several octaves higher than its typical baritone, his hips pushing back along Valjean’s length. “Move, please, please—”

“Yes,” Valjean said shakily, “Yes, of course, let me—” and he returned his hand to Javert’s hip, and he angled his own pelvis so that when he next thrust his cock forward, it slid along the underside of Javert’s cock, his sac; the heavy weight of them dragging along Valjean’s erection with every push forward.

Javert gasped, the friction of Valjean’s length rubbing along the underside of his own, an uneven slide that tantalized and tormented and was not enough, not enough—but Javert couldn’t help but chase the sensation with his hips, his legs burning where he squeezed them together more and more tightly still, wanting to feel the hot push of Valjean’s cock shoving his thighs apart, wanting to feel Valjean find and take his own pleasure from Javert’s body.

Valjean’s cock bumped up beneath Javert’s again, the space between them wet now with sweat and precome as much as the oil, Valjean’s thrusts growing ragged, desperate. Javert was impossibly hot and slick against him, Javert’s thighs tight and firm around his cock, and Javert was making those sharp, high whines in the back of his throat that Valjean would never tire of, would chase after Javert lost to pleasure until his final days—Valjean dropped his face to Javert’s shoulder, breathed in the familiar scents of sweat and musk and Javert, Javert, Javert. With one final push that slowly dragged his cock under the throbbing, pulsing length of Javert’s own Valjean was coming, pulling his hips back just far enough that his release flooded the space between Javert’s thighs, striping hot and thick across the back of Javert’s legs.

With what presence of mind Valjean still clung to, swept along by the haze of his release, he fumbled for Javert’s straining cock and pumped once, twice—thumbed beneath the head where he knew Javert was most sensitive—and was rewarded with Javert shaking, crying out, coming apart in Valjean’s arms. 

Valjean felt the spill of Javert’s seed down his hand, his wrist as he slowly stroked the other man through his completion, until Javert was squirming and oversensitive and weakly batting Valjean’s hand away, gasping “Enough, enough,” as his head dropped back down onto the pillow. The entire long length of Javert’s body sagged, satiated and covered in fluids, into the soiled bedsheets—too satisfied to even care about the state of the mattress, or Valjean’s cooling spend still trickling down his thighs.

Valjean noted absentmindedly that the arm trapped beneath Javert’s body while he had fucked Javert’s thighs had gone well and truly numb by this point. No matter; he would soon need to climb out of bed again—although he thought of another trip into the cold air with some reluctance—to retrieve a washcloth for them both. Another few minutes of tingling extremities was an easy price to pay for the privilege of clutching Javert’s sated body against his own, of pressing just a few more kisses to the sweaty tumble of his silver hair.

Valjean nuzzled closer to the other man, heedless of the mess they had made between them. He heard Javert give a sleepy murmur in response, and rather thought that if he didn’t drag himself to the washbasin soon Javert would fall back asleep just like this, regardless of their drying spend or dirtied sheets.

Valjean tucked his face into the space between Javert’s chin and shoulder, as he had done when he first awoke. He always fit very easily into this spot; as if it had been made solely for him, to press up against Javert, to curl their bodies together and breathe the other man in.

“I love you,” Valjean whispered into that space he fit so well, because he hadn’t yet said so that morning; because it was true; because sometimes Valjean thought he might burst with all the love he held inside him for the taciturn, determined, beautiful man in his arms.

“I love you too, Jean,” Javert murmured back, the words slurring on the edges of sleep, but Javert reached behind him—his movements slow and sloppy, but deliberate in their intent—to lightly grasp at the back of Valjean’s neck, to cup and hold Valjean’s nape in his own wide palm and keep it there, the warm weight of it securing Valjean where he tucked his face against Javert, Javert’s hair tickling against Valjean’s nose and cheeks. “I love you, too.”