Title: Serenity Under the Stars
Work ID: 50743681
Author: ObsessiveFanNumber1
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Montreuil-sur-Mer, the request asked for fluff, the author wanted fluff, but the boys said "ANGST", I tried to wrangle cuteness in anyways, they're dramatic but it's a happy story anyways, i think, I hope, I just want them to be happy dang it, it might not be pure fluff but I think it's at least sweet, can be read as gen but come on these two idiots are in love and they both don't know it
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


It was far too late in the evening for most of the citizens of Montreuil-sur-Mer to be out and about. Any employed by the two factories in the town—which was most of the town’s citizens—had long since returned home, enjoyed a meal with their families, and taken to their beds. This late into the evening, the only people who were likely to be seen out were those who worked the night, and less likely to be seen was Monsieur Madeleine on his visits to leave coins with the prouder citizens who were in need.



So much less likely was for him to spot the town’s new inspector before the other man noticed him, but such was the case tonight.



At every other moment, the concern that Monsieur Madeleine showed to Inspector Javert was equal to the concern he showed every other man, woman, and child of the town. A respectful nod to acknowledge the inspector’s presence 

(to hide the fear that Jean Valjean was certain he couldn’t completely mask fast enough)

. A smile to avoid having to speak 

(to avoid the risk of slipping back into the rough speech that he’d used for twenty years and that Javert would recognize in a heartbeat)

. Apparent ignorance of the other man’s steel gaze that locked onto him every time that he crossed the inspector’s line of sight 

(if he acknowledged it at all, he was equally likely to bolt or to freeze, and neither would spare him in the end)

.



But in this moment, the inspector’s eyes were raised to the sky, a serenity apparent in his whole being that none in Montreuil-sur-Mer (and certainly no prisoner in Toulon) had seen yet. That didn’t stop Valjean from holding his breath and wondering if perhaps the most prudent course of action would be to turn around and to escape before he could be seen. With Javert patrolling the streets tonight, it wasn’t likely for any to wake tomorrow morning with gold on their tables that hadn’t been there when they’d fallen asleep. Javert was a good inspector and would immediately investigate the slightest disturbance of the peace on a night such as this, where peace seemed almost a given. Moreover, Javert was a good man, and he would not take kindly to any man entering a home for which he had no key, least of all Madeleine. Valjean held no illusions about being listened to by the other if he were to be caught in the slightest misstep. No, the best course of action was almost certainly to turn around and return home, wait for a night when Javert was not present, and assist those reluctant to accept charity then.


In this moment of relative safety, though, there was also an argument to be made for making the good inspector the subject of his study. After all, Monsieur Madeleine took great pains to not pay too much attention to Javert, but there was still a deep, shameful part of Jean Valjean’s heart that insisted on the pragmatism of knowing his enemy if he was to protect himself should everything fall apart. And several seconds had passed without Javert noticing him yet.


A slow release of breath, with great care to remain silent in doing so, and for the first time, he allowed himself to truly look at the other man.



In one sense, not much had actually changed about Javert. Whether he wore the uniform of a prison guard or an inspector, he maintained a physical standard above the average man 

(Valjean had watched him wrestle down prisoners who rebelled, men who survived only by their physical strength and ability to complete hard labor)

. Even in his apparent calm, he stood rather than sitting, hands folded behind his back rather than resting at his sides, but it was his face that gave Valjean the most pause, because Javert was 
smiling
.



He’d thought he’d seen Javert smile before, but he realized now that he was incorrect. He’d seen the other man scowl, he’d seen him smirk, he’d even seen him laugh, terribly and rarely. But where all of those heightened Javert’s ferocity, his smile softened him in a manner that seemed the very antithesis of everything Valjean knew Javert to be. ‘Gentle’ or ‘kind’ would have been falsehoods, but so too would it be to say that he didn’t appear in this moment to be gentler and kinder than he had ever behaved, at least in Valjean’s presence.



Gentler and kinder, too, than he would behave in Madeleine’s, for it was no more than a few seconds before Javert noticed his observer, and a stern frown replaced his smile the moment that he did so. “Monsieur Madeleine.”



“Inspector Javert.” Sliding behind the mask of Madeleine immediately required a careful smile, but though he had seen the same from Javert so briefly, Valjean found that he missed it already. “I didn’t know you enjoyed stargazing.”



A sharp cough into his cravat didn’t quite hide the inspector’s embarrassment. “It is more of a practical matter than an enjoyment,” he said, and even if Valjean hadn’t seen the simple joy in his face only a few moments prior, he would have known Javert wasn’t being entirely truthful.



“Oh?” he prompted anyways, and the apparent success of his lie seemed to put Javert at a bit more ease. At least his frown was less severe now that he was conversing.



“Should a man know the stars, he cannot lose his way as long as they are shining.”



“I suppose not,” Valjean agreed, and that very well should have been that. But his desire to see Javert’s smile return spurred him to continue, “Though are the stars not used more by sailors for that purpose than other men?”



Instead of a smile, there was a flash in Javert’s eyes that chilled Valjean to the bone. “Remember that I was a guard at Toulon.”



“Ah, that’s right. Near the coast, correct? Then it would make sense for you to have spoken with a great deal of sailors.” He couldn’t show his hesitation or how dry his mouth and throat became the moment that the name of that cursed place was spoken. Javert’s gaze was a steel trap; if Valjean looked away, he would surely take it as a sign that his suspicions were well-placed, and so Valjean held his gaze with the same careful smile, hoping that it was enough to hide his racing heart.



“Of course,” Javert replied, sounding halfway disappointed that his statement hadn’t seemed to have the impact he’d clearly intended, and that did more to calm Valjean than any efforts on his own part. His frown was nearly a scowl again, the air of serenity from before completely gone.



Despite the obvious foolishness of continuing to poke at an agitated tiger like the man in front of him, a sense of growing concern kept Valjean’s heart pounding. Had Javert’s default expression always been so gloomy? Attempting to reassure the other man that he had had no ill intent, Valjean said, “Of course, a man doesn’t need to read the stars to appreciate them.”



His statement had the opposite of its intended effect. Javert scoffed, his countenance darkening further, and his tone was more stiff than Monsieur Madeleine would have ever heard it. “Sailors do not read the stars, monsieur. And those who believe in drawing predictions and stories from the stars are fools.”



Instantly, Valjean understood his offense. Just because Javert was not a cruel guard didn’t mean that the prisoners at Toulon didn’t hate him like they hated the rest. Nor did it stop them from spreading rumors and slurs about Javert’s heritage. And while Monsieur Madeleine had no reason to know of the prison debates over the race of Javert’s father, it was impossible to look at the inspector and not know the origin of at least one of his parents. “I am sorry,” Valjean said quietly, unsure if the words were anywhere near enough. “I only meant—you are allowed to enjoy the stars without a pragmatic justification. You are human, Inspector, and are allowed to appreciate beauty just as any man.”



At least the stormy anger faded from Javert’s expression, even if it was now such a look that made clear that no matter his thoughts on the mental state of a gentleman of society, he would not voice them. Valjean simply smiled; Madeleine was no stranger to being thought odd by the good people of Montreuil-sur-Mer. “Why such a late night walk, Monsieur Madeleine? Surely you’ve emptied your pockets enough in charity for one day,” Javert finally said, evidently deciding that their conversation about the night sky was finished.



Although he wanted to return Javert’s state to the peacefulness the stars had seemed to give him before, Valjean settled for choosing to ignore the irritation in the inspector’s statement about his charity. “A minor spell of insomnia,” he said simply, but the question re-sparked the anxiety that he’d almost managed to forget for most of their conversation. Even though he’d had this excuse prepared for years before Javert had even arrived in Montreuil-sur-Mer, he still folded his hands behind his back to stop himself from fidgeting with his sleeve in a nervous effort to cover the scars on his wrists from the chains. Instinct from the past flared, warning of the dangers of lying to a prison guard—but here, Javert was inspector, not guard, and he was Monsieur Madeleine, not 24601. “I’d hoped a walk under the stars would do me good.” A look crossed Javert’s face too fast for Valjean to truly read, but it only took a second for him to realize that his prepared excuse had involved bringing up the subject that Javert had 

just

 turned the conversation away from in a very deliberate manner. Nearly blushing in embarrassment, Valjean hurried to add, “We needn’t discuss them further.”



Javert raised his eyebrows, visibly confused. “Them?”



“The stars,” Valjean said quickly. “If you do not wish to, as you seem.”



Valjean was very used to Javert’s analytical stare, but he was used to it filled with suspicion: cold, calculating, waiting for the slightest misstep to confirm his conjecture about the other man’s identity. Right now, though, his scrutinization was tempered not by doubt, but by sheer bafflement. Bafflement and something akin to surprise. Did Javert not think his clear desire for a change of subject to be worthy of respecting?



Beneath even that, though, was an ire that surprised Valjean. Perhaps it was prideful to say, but he knew the look of the inspector’s anger when it was directed at an external target—even more so when said external target was him. 

(Was it prideful if he would have forgotten the reason why if he could?)

 Javert was outraged, but his fury was wholly internal. Was he angry at his own wishes being treated seriously?



To comment on any speculation as such would have been inappropriate for a man who was hardly the inspector’s friend. But in that moment, Valjean wished that they 

were

 so close as for him to reassure the other man that this was a matter of the most simple kindness that a person should show to his fellow man. Javert deserved far more than that basic care and respect, and his apparent belief to the contrary left a sorrow in Valjean’s heart deeper than any he would have expected to feel for a man whose sole purpose in relationship to him seemed to be finding a way to return him to prison.



“Your reputation as a good man has far preceded you,” Javert said after several seconds of silence that seemed to stretch out an eternity, “and you continue to build upon it. Good evening.” And with a dip of his head in a respectful nod, the inspector turned away, leaving almost certainly to complete his patrol for the evening and almost certainly not to enjoy a moment of the serenity that Valjean had interrupted and so thoroughly ruined.



Feeling thoroughly ashamed of himself, Valjean echoed, “Good evening,” and turned away as well, intending to return to his home for the hours that remained between now and morning Mass. At least Father Jérôme was used to Monsieur Madeleine attending daily confession; he’d certainly need to do so before Mass in order to reconcile the failures he’d committed tonight.



But Javert’s voice gave him pause. “Should Monsieur Madeleine find himself suffering a mild spell of insomnia again, there should be meteor showers during the next week’s nights. If one enjoys the stars without a pragmatic justification.”



The residents of Montreuil-sur-Mer knew that Madeleine tended to smile in order to avoid speaking, but that was always a reserved, careful smile. Relief did not only make Valjean’s smile bright now, but it encouraged words as well. “Should Inspector Javert be a willing teacher, one might learn the pragmatic justification for stargazing as well. But let that be after appreciating the beauty of God’s creation.”



No further words came from the inspector, only another slight cough that indicated the disagreement he chose not to verbalize and the sound of his retreating footsteps. Nevertheless, for the first time since accepting the mercy that Bishop Myriel had shown to him, Valjean found that hope could fill his chest without fear as a companion but rather peacefulness and even a joy that he’d long thought lost to him. At least for a few nights, Javert and Valjean could co-exist and share a sense of serenity under the stars.




-fin.

