Title: Sinistra
Work ID: 45556150
Author: HoneyBeam521
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: One-Sided Attraction, Masturbation, First Time, Male Solo, Smut, Javert's Confused Boner (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


The thoughts had not gone.


Once he had purged his soul of the knowledge, once he had seen old Jean Valjean in the dock and was absolutely certain of his identity... once this was done, Javert expected that the thoughts, the feelings and the wants would dissipate. He needed have no more thoughts or feelings at all towards Monsieur Madeleine. The man, he told himself, had only ever been a subject of interest because Javert was sure that he’d known him, and to know him meant that he must have been involved with the law. Now that his double had been found... now that “Champmathieu” was going to return to the galleys for life... Javert needed only deal with Monsieur Madeleine in a perfunctory capacity. He needed not dwell on him a moment longer.

He should not dwell on the man a moment longer. The warm, sculpted features and the fine broad frame should invade his thoughts no more. The goodness that Monsieur Madeleine exuded, which belied a furious attraction—or perhaps compounded it—needed not occupy him. He had always known such feelings to be wrong. Javert knew the young women of the town to chatter about the mayor and his forbidden bed; he knew himself to loathe such talk. He thought it repulsive to be so frivolous and frank in such matters; repugnant to think of how little these impudent creatures knew, to consider giving themselves over to a criminal.

But Monsieur Madeleine was no criminal. Javert alone knew both the depths of mercy and the snow-white purity of Monsieur Madeleine’s innocence. He alone understood that everything the mayor had done for the city was untouched by evil, that everything, every act that the man had made was for the sake of the good....

Given the length of the journey between Arras and Montreuil-sur-Mer, and the necessity of performing his duties, Javert had fully intended to sleep on the carriage ride back into town. He could not. Something in his blood had been electrified during his testimony, sparking so blazingly in his brain that the light behind his eyelids was scarringly, unbearably bright. His limbs itched and ached for movement. He was almost convinced that he should have run the distance between the towns rather than be driven, for to be driven had him sitting confined and alone in the dark. Nearly alone, rather. Temptation sat close by his side, breathing his heady breath into Javert’s face and refusing to be ignored.

There was nowhere Javert could put his hands that was acceptable. Any typical position—on his knees, on his thighs—drew what was nebulous into stark lines and forms in his mind. If he grasped his cane, his heart beat faster, unbearably fast, and his breath came quick and sharp. Anywhere else and his hands would be in so awkward a position that he would notice them, and to notice them meant to think of what sin could be exacted by them.

The hours passed by with agonizing slowness. Flexing of the muscles and tendons did nothing to douse the fire that had been set in his blood. There was nothing to be done for it. Nothing but to fix his gaze out on some thoroughly innocuous part of the dark horizon until he fogged the windows with his heavy breathing and had to clear them with the fabric of his sleeve. Even the stop on the way that allowed him to pace freely and wipe his brow in the frigid night air did nothing; he touched his throat, and his heart still beat wildly beneath his fingers.

When, at last, Javert arrived back to his modest quarters in Montreuil-sur-Mer, he could feel the beating of the wings of some great force at his back; they pushed him forward, urged him, yet each step remained his own, each a step towards a damnation that he dared not name.

Javert lit no lamps when he entered his home. He closed the door hard behind him and leaned back on the thick slab of wood. The back of his head hit it with a solid thump as he turned his face upward, eyes closed, drinking in breaths from the apex of his height as if he were a drowning man barely breaking the surface of the water. In this darkness, away even from the faraway presence of the carriage driver, Javert felt temptation closer than ever. He felt him take up his hand; he felt him draw it down his side, over his thigh—

Stop! The mind cried out, and his eyes tore open, staring unseeingly into the black void above his head. This is wrong. This is a sin.

So the mind had said many times before. It had always brought him back, proved a bane to temptation such that the feelings would fly away, leaving only a slight ache as a reminder that they had been assailing him at all.

It was different this time. The soul had a reply.

How can it be a sin to worship goodness? It said, languorous and warm, yet impeccable in its logic. How can it be wrong to debase oneself for the love of an upright soul?

And then the mind was silent. It lacked the ability to reply to these rejoinders, and, so, the body did what it wished. Temptation gave way to purpose, to decision. The hand that had been unsure before made its path again, more boldly this time, across Javert’s body and down into his thighs. The hand stopped again, but not from reserve. It stopped because even this sensation, even the touches of the tips of his fingers through the fabric of his trousers—this was enough to make him gasp and shudder and pull back from a fall that already seemed too close.

The eyes drew closed again, and the mind emptied. Javert breathed, and his hands moved once more, to the buttons on his coat. He shrugged it off onto a nearby table, for he could not see to store it rightly, and he would light no lamps this night. In two long steps, purposeful but tremulous, Javert made his way to the side of his narrow bed and sat. He breathed again. He could feel his pulse in his throat and in his ears and in his groin.

His eyes fell closed once more. Darkness in the dark. His hand returned to his thigh. His own soul, temptation, their sumptuous voices wound together in embrace, whispered to his mind and body.


Do it. Prove your devotion.


At last, Javert’s hands found the buttons on his trousers. They paused again, taking in novel sensations. He could feel the soft rising and falling of his stomach on the heel of his hand, skin and hair against skin. In a few breaths, his dominant hand—sinister, irregular—drew inwards once more, pushed down the thin material of the drawers he wore, and grasped his phallus firmly.

Javert cried out, a high, startling sound at the edge of his voice, as a flush of warmth flooded down his spine and his hips thrust indecently into his grasp. But without sight to see this basest of acts, soon there was only touch and warmth and sound. Without judgmental eyes upon him, he could move his hand, slowly, up and down hard, heated flesh, and feel the sensations it brought about in the whole of his body. How his shoulders fell back and his hips rose once more, again and again, finding an atavistic rhythm against his palm. How thick fluid dripping from him eased his way, made his large, rough hand into silk; how his breaths had voice, unrestrained by the tongue or lips seeking to make the shapeless sounds into words.

Once begun, no thought to cease came anywhere near Javert’s mind. Indeed, the mind was as black and empty as the shadows on his ceiling. It made no protest when Javert climbed into his bed, boots and all, nor when his long, clothed legs writhed against the pristinely-made sheets; it had no thoughts when he pressed his face into the coarse fabric of his pillow and moaned unabashedly into it. Only when that edge was again approaching did a thought come to mind, a single, clear, blue, radiant thought:


Monsieur Madeleine.


Another cry, sharper, harder, burst from Javert’s throat; his face contorted into a base grimace of unbearable pleasure, and his hand dropped away from his spent member.

He did not move, then, but for his heaving breaths. The exertion of the day and night fell down on Javert all at once, and sleep could not be denied a moment longer.

When he woke the next morning, it was to inimitable disgust. Javert hardly recognized himself in his bed, clothed, wearing soiled garments from the day prior. At once he set about washing himself and dressing and setting his home to rights.

It was just about time for him to depart for the station when there was a knock at Javert’s door. He found outside one of his fellow officers proffering an official document.

“Good morning, Inspector. I’m sorry to trouble you at your home, but there’s an urgent arrest to be carried out,” he said. Javert took the document, but knew even before he began to read the words there. “Père Madeleine, eh? Or—no—Jean Valjean.” The officer chuckled insufferably. “I suppose you never really know a man.”