Title: Sparring
Work ID: 45102616
Author: Lady_of_the_Refrigerator
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Javert Lives, Jean Valjean Lives, Sparring, Fist Fights, Roughhousing, Mild Hurt/Comfort, intricate rituals etc etc, Javert (Quast) - Freeform, Valjean (Wilkinson), Implied Relationships
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

“You are certain this is the correct course of action?” Valjean said.

“It is imperative the boy know how to defend himself properly. If a scoundrel wanted to retaliate for what he believed to be a poor result in court…”

“All right. I do see some wisdom in it.”

“You and I shall demonstrate, and if he absorbs the lesson, we shall let the matter rest. Agreed?” 

Javert held out his hand and Valjean clasped it. “Agreed.”

Marius led Cosette to sit at the small wrought iron table set in her father’s garden. He sighed heavily and resigned himself to bearing witness to the continued bickering of his future father-in-law and the strange former police inspector who had come to live with him after the failed rebellion that should have meant his death. How Valjean had given up the opportunity to kill the bizarre man when he had the chance, Marius did not understand.

Even today, Valjean at the very least seemed to question the rationale of the inspector’s plan, but then again, questioning each other’s rationale was common. Marius had learned far too much about the unusual rapport between the two men over the past few months while recovering his health, and most of it not of his own volition.

To be lectured on his own ability to protect himself physically by the very inspector who had defended himself so well he had nearly gotten himself publicly executed by the same insurgents to which Marius had belonged was ludicrous, but that was where Marius found himself that sunny afternoon. He would have objected to such a display, but Cosette assured him it was best to simply humor the older men, and they would eventually move on to other topics. 

Valjean and Javert shed their coats and came to stand several feet apart in a clearing in the garden, and proceeded to roll up their shirtsleeves. Javert’s height and greater reach made him appear the more imposing of the two to any unfamiliar with Valjean’s vigor, but appearances were certainly deceiving in this case—a point Javert, at least, was decidedly aware of. It did little to quell his enthusiasm, however, and again that made him appear quite fearsome.

“Monsieur Javert, take care you will not hurt my Papa,” bid Cosette.

“Your worries are misplaced, mademoiselle. I am far more at risk of being hurt by your Papa than he is by me,” Javert said, and bowed his head towards Valjean. “I would thank you to follow at least some rules of engagement when demonstrating, monsieur, rather than knocking me senseless at your first opportunity as you are wont.”

“You have fought each other before?”

“Never formally. He has always bested me, though surely his advancing age has sapped some strength and dampened his reflexes.”

There was a gleam in Javert’s eye that seemed nearly wolfish—a hunter who had scented his prey. Valjean was not shaken by it. He appeared, if anything, vaguely entertained. 

“You have aged, too, my friend,” he said.

“I am still a decade your junior.”

“Yes, and you have spent many years learning to fight from a position of perceived authority, which affords false confidence.”

“You forget I was born in a jail,” Javert said, and lifted his fists up protectively.

“I do not forget,” Valjean said, mirroring his position. “Perhaps if we were still children fighting, then you would have an advantage.”

“Oh ho, he finds his ego!” he said, his teeth visible in a taunting smile.

The tone of the fight was quickly set. Javert would throw a punch that Valjean blocked easily, and then would dodge from an expected counterpunch that would not come. He moved quickly, mostly to avoid putting himself within the reach of Valjean’s fist, for he knew from experience that would end poorly for him. 

His best bet would be to find a way to immobilize the stronger man, but that still came with major challenges. Namely, breaking through Valjean’s considerable defenses to reach him properly.

He had strength enough to lift Valjean, but Valjean knew how to twist away and break his hold with little effort.

“You are wily still,” Javert said, after another failed attempt.

“And you still throw yourself into fights with little thought to your own mortality.”

“You mean to kill me, then, and finally be rid of me forever?”

At that, Valjean went on the offensive, ducked down to circle his arms around Javert’s hips and hoist him over his shoulder. Javert came off the ground easily and went down hard, Valjean taking advantage of Javert’s higher center of gravity to unbalance him.

Javert scrambled to his feet again, and struggled to resume a fighting stance.

“Javert, you fool, why won’t you yield?”

“I anticipate you tiring,” Javert gasped, holding a stitch at his side.

Valjean shook his head. “You are a stubborn man.”

“I thought that obvious.”

Javert rushed him then and Valjean sidestepped him with a glancing blow which, had it connected fully, might have knocked Javert unconscious.

“You are holding back!”

“If I did not hold back, I could kill you!”

“I want nothing of your half-efforts.”

A quick jab to the face, and Javert stumbled back and swore, holding his nose. 

Far from discouraging him, Javert returned to the fray as soon as he had shaken the blow. He darted in low and got Valjean off his feet, and they grappled with each other as they fell to the ground as one, as if time itself had slowed.

At last, Javert had Valjean caught in a solid hold… but it was not long before Valjean managed to switch their positions and gain the upper hand yet again.

When the dust settled, he held Javert prone, with his arms pinned against his back. Javert tried to kick, to lever himself up with his chest. There was nothing for it. He spat in the dirt, blood from his nose having run into his mouth.

“Will you stay down, man?”

Javert growled in frustration and bit out a garbled, “Fine. You have prevailed.”

Valjean released him at once; Javert sat back in the dirt, winded and bleeding. 

“Papa, I thought you meant to instruct Marius!”

“Marius’ first lesson is to avoid being as pigheaded a brawler as this foolish man,” Valjean said, crouched at Javert’s side, a hand resting on his shoulder. “Know when you are beaten, and live to fight another day.”

“Or else you might find yourself dragged unconscious through the sewers,” Javert tossed out, to Marius’ dismay.

“Or from a river,” Valjean added, pointed.

Javert rolled his eyes and shook his head, wiping at the sweat on his brow with his handkerchief, and he sucked in a breath when he brushed a scrape in the skin. Valjean tilted his head towards the sun to examine the wound.

“Let us all go inside and I will clean that for you. You’ve got dirt and grit in it that cannot stay.”

“And whose fault it that?”

“I said I would clean it for you. And let the record show I was not the one who insisted the fight continue despite the drubbing you had suffered. One would think you take pleasure in it.”

Once they had settled again in the kitchen, Valjean collected a bowl of water and soap and a cloth, and Javert attempted to take it from his hands, but was rebuffed.

“Sit,” Valjean ordered. When Javert did not obey, Valjean took him by the shoulders and pressed him down onto a chair; to everyone’s surprise, the man stayed. Valjean dipped the cloth into the water and lathered a corner with soap.

“Now keep still or it will only cause more pain,” Valjean admonished, as he brought the cloth to his wound.

Marius and Cosette watched the pair interact, an air of awkward voyeurism hanging over the room, as it was painfully clear there was much unspoken between the two men. It was paradoxically amusing to see the severe man doted on, Marius had to admit, but Cosette’s amusement bordered on impish delight.

 Valjean held Javert by the jaw and scrubbed at the bloody tracks that ran down beneath his nose. 

“Is this thoroughness necessary?” Javert asked.

“I have full confidence in Papa’s skills as nursemaid, Monsieur Javert. Whenever I injured myself as a child, Papa would clean and dress it for me, and then wish it well with a kiss—I always made a swift recovery!”

Javert’s expression blanked, and he cut his eyes towards Valjean. “You would not dare…”

Valjean barked a laugh and pressed his smirking lips to Javert’s brow, and he could feel the other man’s skin heat in a rapid blush. “There, now it is truly fixed.”

“I can feel the skin knitting as we speak,” Javert deadpanned, and then the corners of his mouth turned up in secret mischief.  “And would you also heal my nose thusly?”

Valjean took Javert’s bait and bent to plant another kiss, but Javert tilted his head back at the last moment so their lips connected instead. Valjean pulled away in surprise, a fierce blush staining his cheeks as well.

“And your knuckles? Were they bruised upon my skull?”

Javert had caught Valjean’s hand between his own, and rubbed at the sore joints before bringing them up to press his mouth to them, holding Valjean’s gaze all the while.

“Enough,” Valjean said, his voice gruff.

With a final squeeze, Javert released his hand, but not his gaze. “Not every challenge must be taken—let that be another lesson.”