Title: Sweetness
Work ID: 48872302
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert and Valjean being Dads, Angst, Implied/Referenced Self-Harm
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Cosette grew up with her papa and father. She doesn’t care that they are both men, and she doesn’t care that she is adopted. What matters to her is that she is loved.

Her papa and father are quite different from each other. Papa Valjean is easier to talk to. He isn’t moody and serious all the time. He cooks the best food and gives the best hugs.

Father Javert, on the other hand, is more difficult. He’s protective and quiet. She knew he used to be an inspector, so Cosette is smart enough to understand why he tends to be controlling. She may act annoyed at times, but she will never hate him for it.

They love each other and she loves them. Everything is happy, or so she thought.

She knew something was wrong when she woke up to the sound of her papa crying. It breaks her heart to hear such sad sounds from her kind papa. Cosette got out of bed, and went to see where he is. Valjean was in the living room alone.

“Papa?”

Valjean jumped and Cosette immediately felt bad.

“Sorry,” she whispered.

“Cosette,” he said, trying to smile. “Why are you awake? Did you have a nightmare?”

“No,” Cosette said, walking closer to her papa. “I heard you crying.”

“Ah, I’m sorry, my dear.” Valjean opened his arms to hug the girl. Cosette happily accepted. She doesn’t care if she’s almost ten, she will always love her papa’s hugs.

“I love you, papa.”

Without fail, Valjean answered back.

“I love you, too, Cosette.”

“Why are you crying?”

Valjean sighed. A silence descended until he decided to speak again. “It’s nothing, Cosette. You should go back to sleep, it’s late.”

Cosette felt that her papa decided not to tell her the truth, but she won’t force him to. Instead, the girl nodded and left Valjean in the living room.

Suddenly, she wondered if father knew papa was crying. Surely, he must be worried. Decided on her path, Cosette walked to her parent’s room to comfort her father, too.

The door was already open, and she can see Javert laying on his side. “Father?”

She walked inside, near her father’s side. Slowly, Javert opened his eyes. Even without light, Cosette can see dark circles under it. “Cosette?” Javert whispered.

“Are you okay, father?”

Javert sat up, looking disheveled. “What’s wrong?” he asked back.

“Papa was crying, and I decided to check up on you,” she said honestly.

“Ah.”

Cosette realized what she was looking at.

“Father… are you hurt?”

In the dark, she can make out the color of blood. Hastily, Javert covered his wrists. He stood up and went to Cosette.

“I’m okay, Cosette. You should get some rest, come now.”

He tried to usher the girl back to her room, but Cosette stayed still. She looked up at him.

“Father, you know I love you, right?”

Javert just stood still.

“And papa loves you, too, so much. You have no idea how much he cares for you.”

Javert remained silent.

“Good night, father.” Cosette went to leave, but Javert suddenly stooped down to hug her. Surprised, she hugged him back.

Javert let her go and kissed her forehead. “Thank you, Cosette.”

The girl beamed. She may not understand everything, but she knows that Valjean gives great hugs and that a hug from Javert is special for Cosette.