Title: The law is fooled (and mocked)
Work ID: 48180607
Author: Clermoon
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: prank, Punish Me Monsieur le Maire, Embarrassment, Crack Fic, Religious Guilt, Confessions, Suicidal Thoughts
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 5/6


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert was utterly distraught, he had disgraced himself but most importantly Monsieur La Maire. How he had even thought the Mayor was a convict he did not know (I mean he did know, there was his strength- and dear lord his thighs-).
But that was beside the point.
Madeline was an honest gentleman and Javert had defiled him- Chabouillet had outright called him insane for his suspicions. He must apologise.

“I’m leaving for the Marie, Alain you’re in charge”,Javert spoke he strode out of the police station shrugging on his coat and hat- noticing how his officers seemed to giggle but not bothering to ask why.

Javert wasn’t exactly adored in the terms of ,well anyone, but certainly not with his officers. He never let them take leave, was always brooding and yelling ,and only seemed somewhat agreeable after visiting the mayor. It didn’t take a genius to work out how Javert felt ,and seeing how “popular” Javert was, of course jokes spread like wildfire. Especially after the entire prefecture discovered that Javert thought the Mayor was a convict. One of his superior officers,Alain , found Javert’s letter denouncing the mayor and Gabriel (who did the best Javert impression) decided to read it in front of the whole prefecture.

~two weeks ago~

“Monsieur la Maire” Gabriel had whined , wearing a large black cloth to mimic Javert’s coat as he strutted around he room “I am well aware of who you are”.

“The man of your dreams” Claude yelled out.

“WHAT NO. How dare you -you wench!” Gabriel screamed before rapidly changing his mood and twirling the mop on his head (which was acting as a ponytail), “well maybe the man of some of my dreams” he giggled as he winked at Claude who almost fell of his chair laughing.

“Sorry what do you mean only some of his dreams- who else is Javert dreaming of?” Alan asked as he walked into the office, seriously regretting letting him have the letter

“Probably that criminal Jean Valjean if he thinks he’s so like Madeline” Claude smirked to himself “or a hair stylist because my god-”

 “No Alain you imbecile!” ( a name used by Javert to his officers). Gabriel giggled to himself pushing the mop in front of his eyes in an attempt to seem embarrassed “ I meant one of my” he winked, “less dry dreams” He finished of this point with excessive moaning whilst rubbing his nipples in a frenzy.

At this Alain went beet-red whilst Claude actually did fall of his chair. Gabriel continued to moan “Monsieur La Mayor please” to himself in attempt to make Claude seemingly die from laughter.

“Right that’s enough” Alain snapped walking over to Gabriel trying to remove the mop from his head.

“But Alain we’re just having fun ,I mean you have to admit my impression is pretty spot on” Gabriel said, dropping the Javert persona and now merely looking like an idiot wearing a mop ,which Alain was desperately trying to remove.

“At the beginning yes but now you’re just making him look like some sort of twink”

“What is a twink?” that signature growl filled the prefecture, looking at the three men in utter disgust. Alain and Gabriel practically jumped from their skin as Claude sunk further to the floor in silent laughter. Javert up a hand to shush Gabriel and Alain before they could babble some incoherent apology, “A few more questions before you grovel for my forgiveness, why is Claude on the floor? Why are you holding a mop?” Then Javert’s eyes lit up in horror as he snarled, “And why are your greasy hands holding my letter?”

“Uh well” Alain started, still red and slightly shaking “ I was cleaning-”

“With the mop” Gabriel squeaked as he held it up.
“Yes” Alain sighed,”with the mop. When I came across your letter which I mistook for something else and I- I read the first lines of.” Alain winced.

Javert remained stoic and drawled “Go on.”

“So I went to ask Gabriel and Claude about what happened and explained that you thought the mayor was a convict. Claude fell of his chair in shock”

Javert’s face contorted in what could be described as confusion and disgust.

“And Gabriel said what you accused the Mayor of makes you a…twink. Which basically means being a traitor to the mayor … in legal terms.”

Gabriel almost fainted.

“And then I explained the context and we all agree you are not… a twink”

Javert then looked around the room at Alain’s red shaking face, Gabriel with a mop half on his head ,and Claude pulling himself up from the floor. On any other day Javert would have yelled at them and ,if he hadn’t seen the Mayor in a while and had forgotten what forgiveness looked like, fired them.Instead he snatched the letter from Gabriel and stormed out the building.

It took the officers at least three minutes to calm down before Gabriel shrieked,“Why would you say I think he’s a traitor” ,throwing the mop at Alain.

“I’m sorry I just panicked- I thought he was going to fire us plus he-”

“Oh please Javert is not going to fire us. He seriously couldn’t care less ,he’s busy thinking about the mayor…” Claude hesitated, “Do we think he’s right about Madeline ?”

Alain scoffed, “Of course he’s not, Javert’s just insane and really cock deprived.” Gabriel snorted at this.

“ So what’s going to happen when he’s proved wrong?”

“Well he won’t be fired. He’ll probably just grovel to the mayor and Madeline will forgive him because.. well that’s just what he’s like”

“Forgive him for what?”

“What do you mean for what? For going against the mayor of course.”

“And when he apologises for being a traitor to the mayor? What ‘legal term’ that he’s just learnt will he use to describe that?”

Alain almost puked.
“Shit we’ve messed up- Claude stop laughing this is not funny! Javert will be furious and you know who will get blamed? Me, because all you ever do is lie on floor-”
Claude raised his hand,”Shh you can yell at me later I just want to watch him figure it out.”
Gabriel still sat confused in his chair pondering the situation .“ Guys I don’t really get- OH MY-TWINK HE’S GOING TO TELL MADELEINE THAT HE’S A TWINK.”

And as Javert walked the streets of Montreuil-Sur-Mer he had no clue what embarrassment faced him…

Hope you like my original characters and don’t worry the next chapter is based much more on Javert and Valjean ;).

Javert meets the Mayor…what could possibly go wrong?


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


~ no longer flashback~

As he walked to the Marie Javert could feel nothing but absolute shame inside. He had become exactly what his deranged officers thought he was- he had betrayed the mayor was… what was the name again? He spun back through the door and growled “Alain what was that legal term you used to describe betrayal of the mayor. I wish to stay professional despite my failure and saying I’m a traitor feels overly melodramatic.” Javert of course felt exactly like a traitor to his morals, himself, Chabouillet and the Mayor. However the mayor was a simple man he didn’t need Javert’s dramatics and regret to complicate the matter of firing him. Javert prayed he would fire him- “dear God if you’re real don’t let him forgive me, I couldn’t live if he did”, Javert thought to himself- the last part was especially true to him. It was better to die than to live in the shame of Madeleine’s unjust kindness. He deserved pain and suffering and if Madeleine did not grant him this then he would have to inflict it himself. He had already written a note- not as if he was planning to ,just for practicality. Javert was not sure if he believed that- no one would exactly read his note, he had no friends no lover no family. So why a note? For closure? So he could know he could escape this hell if he wanted to? So he finally could have some control over his life, instead of his life being controlled by some escaped convict?

Obviously Javert’s colleagues had no idea of his pessimistic thoughts as they giggled with each other over who would inform him what the ‘legal term’ was. “It was twink Javert” Gabriel snickered.
Javert was suddenly broken from his trance and glanced at the three men with glossy eyes, he supposed these were the closest people to friends he had now he betrayed Madeleine. They deserved just as much of an apology as him he decided. “You three imbeciles are obviously aware of my situation. I am now on my way to the Marie to confess to the mayor, I will not allow him to use his usual forgiveness on me. I must be dismissed so for that reason I will be leaving you all. No doubt the next officer will be more competent then me but certainly less strict, so do not forget yourself. Alain stay resolute, Claude control your laughing fits, and Gabriel I expect you to no longer do impressions of your superiors.”

Gabriel nearly fainted again. “Yes sir of course”
He whispered to Claude,”Do you reckon he knows about the mop?”

“Of course I know about the mop” Javert snarled,”you literally never clean the floor. The prefecture is a mess.” Javert sighed to himself remembering why he was here.”I am … apologetic that I have acted so unprofessionally. I truly have been a twink” Javert hung his head in shame. Alain tried to tell Javert the true meaning of the word but was shushed by Javert. “Do not speak Alain I do not require your sympathy I am leaving now and I expect no retaliation. Good night.” Javert strode out the room leaving the three men in shock.

Alain turned to the others in panic,”We should tell him, he’s only going to embarrass himself further.”

“Alain he has literally been horrible to us every day, I feel sympathy for him but come on he deserves it.” Claude said leaning against the wall sighing but slightly smiling. “He was actually slightly sweet then. Gabriel what do you think?”

Gabriel just stared at the wall in shock,” I can not believe he knew about the ponytail mop.”

“Well he’s no help” Alain sighed,” I vote we leave Javert to embarrass himself”

“Where’s this change of heart coming from?” 

“We’re acting as if he’s actually going to be dismissed.We all know Madeleine will forgive him plus Javert can’t exactly force him to dismiss him as that would be going against the mayor again.”

“The word you’re looking for is twinking” Gabriel muttered still daydreaming.

Alain looked in disgust over at him, “Yes thank you Gabriel, that would be ‘twinking’.” He rolled his eyes, “This will all blow over, Javert is merely being dramatic.”

~

“Javert you are being far too dramatic” Madeleine sighed sinking into his chair, “Just tell me what you have done it cannot be as bad as you make it out to be.” 

“But it is Monsieur I have defiled you.”

”Javert tell me what you have done, dragging it out is not helping anyone”

”I- I am” Javert sighed to himself hoping the Mayor would understand so he wouldn’t have to elaborate on his failure, “I’m a twink”

Madeleine who had previously looked quite uninterested and instead was shuffling through papers stopped at this and gawked at Javert in disbelief. It took Madeline several long blinks before he could form a sentence, “I-I Javert I do not know what to say-”

”Then say nothing, dismiss me now Monsieur La Maire.”

”I would like to ask a few  questions before I do thar Javert”, Madeleine spoke calmly but at a quick pace to make sure Javert would not interrupt,”You said you defiled me.” Javert nodded counting the lines on the floorboards to avoid meeting Madeleine’s gaze. “How was it specifically me?”

Javert was confused by this, twinking meant betraying the mayor ,he did not know how to be more specific… Perhaps this was a test to extract more details from Javert? Yes that made sense. Madeleine had every right to know what Javert did, it was only further twinking that Javert was defying him. He just couldn’t bring himself to speak that god-forsaken name or the number that went with it - and to think Javert had thought the Mayor-

“Javert I do expect an answer” Madeleine frowned.

Javert turned red, “ Well Monsieur La Maire I would prefer to not reveal all the details due to the shame of it.” Madeleine produced a small nod as an acknowledgement of understanding, “ I-um-I became rather obsessed with you Monsieur. You were all I could think about, you reminded me of someone I met as a guard in Toulon-especially when you lifted that cart.”

Madeleine began to become pale. “I understand inspector there’s no need to carry on speaking.”

They stayed in silence after this, Javert rocking back and forth on his feet: staring at the ground in pretend interest whilst Madeleine read letters and pondered on what to do.

”You will not be dismissed Javert”, Madeleine decided-Javert paled, “ it would not be in my moral compass, however I do expect you to go to church with me at some point to help relieve you from your guilt.”

It was now Javert’s turn to gawk, “But Monsieur La Maire I am a disgrace, I’m a twi-”

“Javert yes you have made that clear” Madeleine sighed and rubbed his eyes, “ I am too tired for this Javert just go home and meet me tomorrow at 5 pm, alright?”

“ Monsieur I-”, he couldn’t face defying the Mayor again so he bit his tongue, bowed as deep as he could and strode out of the room.

What could he do? He couldn’t exactly take his life when the Mayor had directly ordered to meet him tomorrow. If he did that he would be disgracing the Mayor even in his death, Javert shuddered at the thought.

 

 

This fic is pretty chaotic so bear with me. I’ll be posting another chapter tomorrow when they meet at the church. My plan is for four chapters- this is only a silly little fic after all.

Side note: is it bad I feel bad for Javert being mocked even though I’m writing it?

*IMPORTANT*

I would like to say that being gay isn’t a crime in this fic even though it’s not a modern au. However it will be frowned upon, especially in the church!

It was 5pm exactly, just as Madeleine had requested. He could see the large figure pacing by the church, no doubt wondering how he would ever look at Javert again. “Why will he not just dismiss me?” Javert muttered to himself, scowling as Madeleine tried to beam at him but instead slightly grimaced.

”Ah Javert you’re here.”“Where would else would I be? Out twinking again?” Javert scoffed as he strode inside the building, Madeleine stuttered behind him. Javert quickly realised his error, how dare he speak to the mayor as if he’s one of his officers.“Pardon me Monsieur La Maire, I do not mean to seem abrupt, I just wish to get this ordeal over with before I leave.”

Madeleine sighed to himself, “Javert for the last time you are not leaving and I am certainly not dismissing you.” Javert  scoffed at this in unwanted acceptance. “I have taken the liberty of choosing a relatively quiet time to protect you from further embarrassment.”

Javert wished he was humiliated, that way he could partly suffer for his actions, but he did appreciate the Mayor’s thoughtfulness. Madeleine was correct ,the church was mostly empty: the only people being him, the Mayor, the priest and some old woman he almost ran over with his horse last Wednesday. Javert grimaced. God was truly answering his prayers of humiliation.

The priest and the Mayor greeted each other whilst Javert glanced at the old woman ,who seemed to be just as petrified to see Javert as he felt standing in front of the Priest. 

“Javert” the Priest said, dragging him out of his trance. “Tell me what you have done, Monsieur La Maire says you are struggling with guilt.”

No, he was struggling with the urge to not boot that old cow out of the window. 

“Monsieur La Maire is correct, I have disgraced him.”

“Javert please calm down you’re shaking.”  Madeleine whispered.

The Priest smiled at him warmly -that imbecile- “It can not be that bad Ja-”

“I’m a twink” Javert squeaked- he was brought up Christian (and although he now was purely devoted to the law) he still had a bit of religious guilt about sinning instilled in him.

The Priest cocked his head, “Javert you must speak up.”

”I AM A TWI-”

”Javert, be quiet.” Madeleine hissed, glancing at the old woman who was pretending to be uninterested. He pulled the Priest aside and whispered in his ear, “Javert has had impure thoughts… about me.” Madeleine pulled back awaiting the Priest’s judgment whilst Javert glared at the floor- wanting nothing more than to run away from this church.

The Priest slowly turned to Javert, “I’m of an understanding that you have thought impure thoughts about the Mayor.”

That was right, Javert had thought he was a convict, he nodded.

 

”And um- have you…acted on these thoughts.” At this Madeleine turned an alarming shade of red and the old woman stopped pretending not to be interested.

 

”I- I should go Monsieur.” Madeleine muttered, hurrying out of the building. “Javert meet me outs-”

”Yes I have acted on those thoughts.” That was also true, he had sent the letter denouncing the Mayor to Chabouillet.

Madeleine stopped in his tracks but the Priest continued, “Explain.”

 “I thought he was…” he didn’t want to say convict in order not to embarrass the Mayor- plus he didn’t even know if the Mayor was aware of this. He had only said he was a twink- he hadn’t given anymore details. Unless his officers had gossiped about the contents of his letter…

“Did you think he was like you?” Javert scowled, they had definitely gossiped- those imbeciles. The Priest must be referencing how he thought the Mayor was a criminal and unjust. Javert didn’t know if he would class himself as a criminal- but on one hand he did go against authority and authority is the law…

Javert decided, “Yes I thought he was like me.” 

Madeleine had sped from the room as quickly as possible. 

The Priest sighed, “Javert I know you are not religious so I will not bore you with repentance. Just promise me -for Monsieur La Maire’s sake- that you will refrain from acting on these thoughts again.” 

“I promise.”

He was about to leave when a look of panic crossed the Priest’s face, “ When you say you acted on your thoughts- Monsieur La Mayor did not- he is not-”

”No he is not “like me” Monsieur.” Of course he was not like him- otherwise Javert would’ve arrested him already - that imbecile of a Priest.

”Ah okay. Javert I will leave you now, please go and apologise to Monsieur La Maire, he looks distraught.” The Priest said as he walked into a separate room, nodding in dismissal. Javert was also about to turn to leave when-

“I don’t blame you, I thought he was too.” The old woman said, having the utter audacity to wink at him. Javert’s face went red in fury. “ You disobedient wench. Do not speak to me as if you know me. I am not some gossiping girl. How dare you presume our saintly Mayor is some-”

“Javert.” Madeleine boomed, standing in the doorway with a look in his eyes Javert had hardly ever seen before, “You will leave this poor woman alone, you thought no better of me than her. Come here.” And when Javert did not move due to shock, Madeleine bellowed,”NOW.” Javert half yelped and sped down the aisle to Madeleine whilst the Mayor offered some apology to the woman before taking Javert by the sleeve and dragging him out of the building. “Monsieur La Maire I-”

”Not a word until we get to my office.” Madeleine snarled. Javert shuddered, he had never seen this side of the Mayor before.

~

They were in Madeleine’s office before Javert could even plan what to say, Madeleine yanked Javert into the room and slammed the door behind him. “ I am not an angry man Javert, I in fact pride myself on my patience. I did not yell at you when I would see you staring at me in public, obviously trying to figure out my “true nature”. Never once have I shouted when you unfairly punished a citizen of MY town. I even refrained from punishing you after your confession, instead I chose to offer you forgiveness and redemption.” Madeleine was starting to quiet , sitting on his chair, his hands covering his face in exhaustion, “However you ignore this ,refuse to be cooperative and then you yell at some elderly woman for doing exactly what you have done.”

Javert felt as if he was about to throw up. “But Monsieur La Mayor” he whimpered, “she thought you were-”

“BECAUSE I AM.” Madeleine boomed standing up in fury, “Are you happy now Javert? Will you stop begging me to punish you for suspecting it?”

 Javert’s whole world crashed in on himself. He was correct Madeleine was what he feared. “You are-”

And when Javert and Valjean spoke they did so in unison. 

”You’re Jean Valjean?”

”I’m gay.”

They both looked at each other in horror. 

I’m so sorry this took so long! Final chapter will be out by Wednesday (unless anyone wants an extra smutty chapter?) I’ve so busy and also in such a writing slump. ALSO, after this fic is finished I’m thinking of starting a more smutty in depth fic about Javert and Valjean so look out for that! :)


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert was trying to breathe properly, Madeleine was not confessing to being Valjean he was confessing to being- being- no he couldn’t think about that or he’d faint. Madeleine had been pacing around his office for the past few minutes, Javert kept stealing glances at him- constantly on edge: waiting for him to say something. 



“Javert.” Javert flinched and Madeleine grimaced at his reaction, “You thought I was a…” Madeleine moved his hand as if to tell Javert to continue.

”A convict, Monsieur La Maire. I was obviously mistaken and I can only offer my condolences that you didn’t realise the extent of my crime before now.” Javert took a shaky breath and regained his stoic posture, “I await my dismissal.”

”Javert for the last time I will not dismiss you-”

”But Monsi-”

”Javert I would warn you to not interrupt me, you have done enough already.” Javert reddened, “You will not be dismissed, the decision is final.”

They stayed in silence for another minute or so before Madeleine again spoke up, his face now an alarming shade of red. “So when you said you were… a twink” Madeleine sighed as Javert glared at him in confusion. “ I- just why would you say that?”

Javert’s brow furrowed, “Because it means betrayal of the mayor, I am sorry Monsieur ,I thought you were familiar with legal terms.” The corners of Madeleine’s mouth began to turn up as he stared at Javert in both shock and amusement. “Javert who told you that?”

”My officers.”

”Well,” Madeleine sighed and sat down, “I’m afraid they may have lied to you Javert.”

The man paled at these words, what could twink possibly mean then?”

”Do you…” He coughed in embarrassment, “wish to know what it means.” Javert hesitated then silently nodded, surely it couldn’t be that bad-

“It means a feminine gay man.”

Silence.

Javert’s thoughts were ablaze. He had confessed to the Mayor that he was a feminine homosexual. He had confessed to the bishop that he was a feminine homosexual. He had told Madeleine that he was watching him and had acted on his thoughts. He silently prayed that Madeleine had not thought anything of him “acting on his impure thoughts”. But he had left from the church in a hurry when that was brought up… Dear lord save me, Javert thought and then changed his mind. Dear lord save my officers. Javert was known to almost kill someone for a seconds tardiness, let alone making him tell the mayor that he was A FEMININE HOMOSEXUAL. 



Javert finally broke the silence,“But I am not feminine.”

Madeleine’s facade completely dropped as he laughed at Javert who was bright red and fuming. 

“That is all you have to say? That you are not feminine?”

There was silence after this as Javert tried to create an answer, he ended up just opening and closing his mouth aimlessly which earned a soft smirk from Madeleine. The Mayor was absent-mindedly shuffling though papers, awaiting an answer from Javert. 

”Monsieur La Mayor…” Madeline smiled up at him through his eyelashes- Javert blushed, “Do you acquire anything else from me?”

Madeleine’s face dropped, he had been waiting for answer but clearly Javert was not comfortable with that subject and he would not impeach on his privacy. “Oh um yes of course inspector, and do not return to the prefecture it is far too late,” Madeleine glanced at the dark circles surrounding Javert’s eyes,” and I am certain you need some sleep.”

Javert had never particularly cared about his looks as he paid no attention to them: he had much bigger issues taking up his mind. However the thought of the Mayor noticing Javert's less pleasent features made Javert squirm: but he blinked in acknowledgement anyway. He was also careful to bow extra low -as a show of respect- and stride quickly out of the office to avoid any further ques-

"Javert wait."

Madeleine had stood up and grasped Javert’s wrist. Javert froze at the touch whilst Madeleine flinched back, he had suddenly turned very pale, “Forgive me Inspector I don’t know what I was thinking.”

Javert said nothing: he didn’t even meet his eye he just balked at his wrist which now burned with the sensation of the Mayor’s touch. 

“I-uh, I was just wondering if you… well if you had anything else to say to me.”

Javert looked up from his wrist to meet the gaze of a panicked Madeleine, “No Monsieur La Maire I do not.”

”Oh right, I apologise for the inconvenience. Good night Javert.”

Javert tried to ignore the pained expression of the Mayor as he left the room. However he could not ignore how his wrist still burned from his touch, Javert’s heart rate began to increase even further as he walked into the corridor, he prayed the Mayor hadn’t noticed his disarray. Javert stopped at the top of the stairs, he needed to control himself. 

He tentatively reached out a finger and lightly traced where the Mayor had touched him, his breathing hitched. Javert had tried to ignore this sensation ever since his arrival in the M-sur-M but in situations like this it became to hard to bare, it reminded him of his days in Toulon. Most prisoners didn’t necessarily fear Javert, he was not overly harsh after all, but they knew not to look him in the eye. Javert wasn’t the type of guard to punish for no reason but he was incredibly strict when it came to rule breaking, and for that reason he was feared and -almost- respected. But not by Valjean. Javert would not lie and claim he only cared about Valjean due to his insubordination: he was a sight to behold with his muscles and strength- but most importantly his eyes. 



Javert remembered how Valjean used to glare it him with those eyes- they challenged him, made him question his authority: but more than anything they made Javert burn. Whenever he looked or dreamed of those eyes he felt the sensation of guilt, he was never particularly religious but alongside the image of Valjean’s eyes the image of hell’s fire waiting him was always there: and for that reason Javert burned. 

But,Valjean’s eyes also conjured lust and longing which made Javert’s soul alight. So when Javert would lie in his chambers picturing those defiant eyes he would burn in a way he had never felt before. 



When Javert came to M-sur-M he had tried to trick himself into believing Madeleine’s mysterious life was his reason for suspicion, but Javert knew this wasn’t a good enough reason. It wasn’t until Madeleine lifted the cart that Javert had a good enough reason to write the letter to Chabouillet. But as Javert kept stroking his wrist he finally cane to terms with the true reason for his suspicions: the thing that linked Madeleine and Valjean.

Javert burned for him.

 

This was done over such a long time in short sections so the writing is a bit choppy, my apologies! I’m out of my writing slump now so expect more frequent and a lot longer fics from me! :)

Javert suddenly snapped from his daydream and found himself on Madeleine’s porch. It had somehow become night during their long and awkward conversation. Javert shuddered at the thought of walking home with only his mind replaying the real meaning of twink to keep him company.

The daunting thought of walking home was not helped by the thunderstorm that had started -Javert must’ve been too wrapped up in his thoughts before to notice it. He was extra careful to not slip on the front stairs as he walked down onto the streets.

“Javert wait,” A hand suddenly grasped his forearm, causibg Havert to aoin around in shock. After hjs many years of working for the law his body reacted auctomaticaly to unexprwctwd shocks with fight or flight: in this case it was definitely fight as his hand flwe out to strike the perpatrator. His attempts were soiled though , as in his shock he had forgot about the rain and the puddles it produced and swiflty fell on his backwards. Or he would have if the same hand which was previously on his foreman wasn’t grabbing his shirt and holding him mid fall.

Of course the man was Madeleine.

The previous shock quickly turned to heat as Javert realised how the Mayor was holding him. 

“Why are you here?” Javert blurted out, regreting it immediately.

”Must I remind you this is my property inspector.”

I wouldn’t mind being your proerty, Javet thought before he quickly scolded himself to pull himself together.

”I’m sorry Monsieur La Maire, what I meant was-”

“It is alright I know what you meant Javert. I must be the one to apologise for startling you in such a way.” Madeleine sighed, “I just wished to ask you if you -um, if you had abythibg else to ask me.”

”I thought I already answered that question before.”

 

Madeleine blushed, “Yes you did I only- In all honesty I am not sure why I’m here.”

“May I be released then?”

Madeleine froze in confusion and then realised and yanked Javert back, “Sorry Inspector I- I’ll leave you now. Good night.” 



“Actually Monsieur I do have a question.”

The Mayor’s eyes widened.

Javert drew in a shaky breath and decided now was his only chance, “How did you know you were attracted to men?”

Madeleine slowly blinked at him a couple of times before answering.

”You remembered my confession?”

A noise similar to a laugh escaped Javert, “I couldn’t exactly forget it.”


“Oh,” Madeline blushed, “That’s um- well that’s a very personal question Javert.”

 Javert paled, how could he ask such a question? Javert had already embarrassed Madeleine in the church and for him now to be so invasive …

”I’m sorry Monsieur La Maire, I don’t know wh-”

 

Madeleine pushed the hair from his face in an attempt to relax, he straightened his waistcoat as well, “No it’s quite alright I’ll answer-” Madeleine paused, eyes focusing on Javert, “But first, I need to know why you asked.”

Javert’s eyes widened, he tried to think of a reasonable excuse: “I- um for research.”

That was a terrible excuse. 



Madeleine seemed to agree with Javert’s thoughts, he did not look convinced.

Madeleine spoke anyway, ”Right, well, I was young and I had always had my… desires.”

 Javert wished he could run away. 

“But I was never certain until a girl I knew, well she kissed me. She was very pretty and my friends were all naturally jealous of me but I felt disgusted with it. The idea of ever doing that again with a woman repulsed me, so that confirmed my doubts.”

Javert didn’t know what to say. “Well I should be going Monsieur La Maire. Thank you for your ,um- help.” 

Madeleine’s brow furrowed in confusion until it turned to frustration.

”That’s all you have to say? You can not tell me you seriously asked for ‘research’.”

”That is exactly why I asked.” Javert fumed, “What other reason could there be?”

Madeleine volume began to increase, “You know what reason-” He had to stop himself before he grew too loud. 



Madeleine began to pace around the porch whilst Javert stood in shock and pale.  Madeleine would occasionally glance at Javert, each time with different emotions, before he spun around.



Javert flinched at this but instead of yelling Madeleine began to slightly laugh, “So what- are you going to write a book on it? Or perhaps a research paper?”

”Monsieur I was being genuine, I- I would appreciate if you wouldn’t mock me.”

Madeleine didn’t seem to listen to Javert as he continued to laugh. “You know you were right earlier, you really aren’t feminine.”

”What?”

”Well earlier you said you weren’t a feminine homosexual , or as you said a twink, because you’re not feminine. I agree with you.”

Javert’s fists clenched. “Monsieur I don’t know what your insinuating.”

Madeleine almost smirked at him, “Inspector I am not insinuating anything. I am merely trying to help your research.”

”By doing what? Embarrassing me?”

“No by doing this.”



Madeleine kissed him. 

It was only quick, it barely even happened, but Javert’s lips burned from the touch. He couldn’t speak, all he could think of was Madeleine’s story: how repulsed he felt after that girl kissed him. 



Javert had never felt less repulsed in his life.

Madeleine faced the red Javert now and paled. Javert looked petrified (he obviously wasn’t but he looked it).

Madeleine’s stomach dropped, “Javert I’m do sorry I didn’t realise, I- I thought-”

Javert finally managed to whisper, ”That isn’t enough.”

”I know and I’m so sorry I-”

Javert snapped out of his trance and touched Madeleine’s cheek, making him turn to him in shock, “No, I meant that isn’t enough research.”

Madeleine’s eyes windened, “What other resear-”

Javert’s lips knocked into Madeleine’s and the Mayor made a small sound of shock before quickly responding back.

Javert was deprived, he clung to Madeleine like a life line: furiously pulling him closer. Madeleine’s hands were quickly knotted in Javert’s hair as he drew back for breath. Javert snarled at the loss of contact and began to undo Madeleine’s cravat, Madeleine slightly moved back and stared into Javert’s wild eyes.

”I think research is easier inside.”

Javert nodded furiously as Madeline grabbed his shirt and yanked him towards the door.

”And for the record,” Madeleine whispered in Javert’s ear, pulling on his ponytail and making Javert whine, “ you are such a twink.”

 

 

 

 

 