Title: to hold me like water, or christ, hold me like a knife
Work ID: 51373681
Author: lewisshamilton
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Inspired by Married At First Sight (TV), Enemies to Lovers, Hurt/Comfort, Fluff, Crack, Javert needs a hug, Valjean is very excited about flowers, also starring: a cat and bad jokes, and there was only one bed
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Javert is sometimes convinced his life is one massive joke.

Or God is testing him in the most cruel ways - there is no other explanation as to why he’s currently standing in a wedding suit in the dressing room of Chateau de Santeny, just 13 miles outside of Paris, about to marry a total stranger.

Given, it’s partly Javert’s own fault too but how was he supposed to know they’d actually choose him.

That application was supposed to be a joke and, given, a bit of a dig against his younger colleagues to prove to them that love isn’t for him and that marriage is shit. And that it doesn’t matter if you marry a stranger or your girlfriend of many years - you don’t ever truly know a person.

And now he’s got a point to prove given Studio 89, the production company producing the show for the channel M6, picked him.

It doesn’t change the fact that he’s a bit of an idiot.

He tugs on his tie and feels absolutely ridiculous (and a little nervous though he’d never admit that to anyone). What makes matters worse is that this entire thing is televised. Multiple cameras will follow him and his future husband’s misery for the foreseeable future (six weeks. The contract stated six weeks) and he takes a deep breath.

“Alright Javert, would you be so kind as to tell the camera how you’re feeling?” One of the production assistants gives him a warm smile and Javert huffs but nods.
Here they go.

~

“Well, I don’t think love is real anyway,” Javert starts once the camera is focused on him and he sees one of the makeup artists wince, “so I’m here to prove that this experiment won’t work anyway.”

While some members of the film crew look horrified, the producer just smiles amused. “Well, are you excited for your future husband?”

Javert shrugs. “Probably some poor, lonely fool.”

He ignores the small voice in his head that reminds him that he also hates these dark evenings alone at home in his small flat in Paris. All he does most days is heat up some already pre-cooked food from the supermarket, and maybe watch some bad crime show on TV before heading to bed to be ready for the next twelve-hour shift.

“We will leave you to get ready then.” The producer winks at him - Javert is close to snorting but for the sake of the cameras he holds it back - and that was that.

~

He watches the TV crew scurry around him, someone fixing his make-up while someone else steams his suit jacket and Javert sighs. He really should have thought this through better.

Getting divorced is a massive hassle, he and his future husband have to prove they’ve lived apart for a year before they can finalise the divorce and he’s about to crush some poor fool’s hopes and dreams.

Sure, Javert thinks you must be absolutely mental to participate in this with the hope of actually finding love but that doesn’t mean he’s an asshole. He still feels a tad sorry for the other man.

Because they will get divorced again as soon as this is over, thank you very much.

~

“I’m Jean Valjean,” Valjean starts a little awkwardly, not used yet to the camera right in front of his face, “and the former mayor of a small town.”

“What are you doing now?” The producer asks him and from the corner of his eyes, Valjean sees Cosette give him an encouraging smile.

“I have my own business,” Valjean tells the camera (or the producer, he's not sure) and he clears his throat. “It’s, uh, quite successful.”

“Why did you sign up for this, Valjean?”

“Well, Cosette, she- she’s my daughter and she signed me up for this.” Valjean waves a bit awkwardly over to his daughter and thankfully Cosette comes over, already wearing her gown for the wedding.

“I’m worried about him,” she tells the camera with a warm smile, “all he did his whole life was work. I don’t want him to be alone anymore.”

“And I can’t say no to Cosette,” Valjean adds and the producer smiles, clearly satisfied with their answers.

Valjean still thinks this is a bad idea.

Marrying a total stranger and spending the rest of his life with him?

Forgive him if he has a few trust issues.

~

Javert is getting ready on his own.

He doesn’t have to, the show offered that he could bring a friend or family member for emotional support but … it’s not like he truly has friends. His father is dead, his mother is god knows where and he has no contact with the rest of his family.

He doesn’t even know them.

He knows the producer added a few extras as wedding guests for his side plus some of his younger colleagues will be waiting downstairs (most likely to make fun of his misery) so it doesn’t look like he has no one and his stomach churns.

He tugs on the cuffs of his suit jacket and glances into the mirror. The production company provided the suit, it’s probably the most expensive thing he’s ever worn and he feels ridiculous.

“Knock knock!” Someone calls out and Javert whirls around, his heartbeat picking up. It’s just Camille Moreau though, one of the two matching experts and Javert forces himself to smile at her.

“Madame.” He nods shortly and Camille gives him a smile that, Javert thinks, looks way too enthusiastic. She’s wearing a long, deep green gown with little rhinestones that sparkle in the lights of the set and her long blonde hair is in a complicated-looking bun that somehow still manages to look elegant.

She’s in her mid-fifties, a golden wedding ring sparkling around her finger and Javert doesn’t trust her.

Allegedly, she also has a degree in psychology from Sorbonne but Javert doesn’t buy that.

Why would someone with a degree in psychology from one of France’s most respectable universities participate in this?

Camille carries a round, white box with golden applicants on it and she sits down on the expensive, historical armchair across from him.

“I’ve got the first sign from your future husband,” she tells him cheerfully and Javert feels his stomach sink. He completely forgot that part - it shouldn’t have slipped his mind.

After all, he also had to write a letter for his future husband and include a small gift.

Did he mention that he’s very bad at giving gifts?

“ … right,” he says slowly and Camille hands him the box. “There you go, are you excited?”

“Very.” That came out much drier than he intended to and he can hear someone behind the camera snort while Camille’s eye twitches a little. The big smile is still on her face though and she elegantly crosses her legs.

“You may open it.”

He follows the order, mostly to get over with the whole thing as quickly as possible and he places the lid under the box before glancing inside.

Right on top is a white card and he takes that first. He can feel it’s made from expensive paper and there is the hint of a perfume - he can’t place it though.

“Read it to us,” Camille encourages him but he doesn’t miss the subtle order in her voice and he opens it, holding back a sigh.

He’s not too thrilled to read the letter but it’s part of the contract he signed.

“Dear future husband,” he starts dryly and he doesn’t miss how neat the handwriting is. It looks oddly familiar but he can’t pinpoint from where.

“Are you as nervous as I am right now? I certainly am.” He feels ridiculous reading another man’s words to Camille, the camera and a whole production team but oh well. He signed up for this, after all.

(It should be noted though, that he didn’t know that all of this was included when he signed up. He should have read the fine print first, he normally always reads the fine print first. He’s a bloody fool.)

“What a strange and exciting adventure we are about to begin - I am looking forward to doing this with you by my side, together.” Dear god, this will be tough when he tells the guy he’s going to divorce him again.

No way he’s going to spend the rest of his life with someone who signs up voluntarily for a show like that.

“I can’t wait to meet you soon and please know I’m thinking about you - a lot. Let’s grow together. All my love, your future husband,” Javert finishes the card and he glances back at Camille, a little unsure what is expected of him now.

He knows some people cry already when reading the letter (he’s not sure if it’s tears of joy or regret though) but he doesn’t see a reason to cry. They’re just words, kind words, yes but he doesn’t know that man. Besides, he rarely cries anyway.

“He sounds .. nice,” Javert states lamely when he realises Camille is still looking at him expectingly and she lets out a very deep sigh before she tilts her head towards the box.

“He left you a little gift,” she tells him and Javert frowns before he glimpses back into the box. There isn’t much in it except a small, dark blue box and when he opens it he finds some … seeds? And a silver acorn key chain.

“How lovely!” Camille exclaims and Javert almost drops the box at her loud voice. “The acorn symbolises growth, a fresh start and potential - and the seeds might also be a hint about his hobbies, non?”

“I … guess he likes to garden?” Javert guesses and Camille gives him a grin. “You’ll find out very soon!”

He can’t wait.

Javert sighs and attaches the little silver acorn to his key chain.

~

“Jean, how are you doing?” Valjean flinches when someone suddenly comes into the room and he looks up. It’s just Olivier Cauchon though, the matching expert who surprised him at home a few weeks ago to let him know that he is part of the show.

Olivier is already wearing a suit, he’s quite short and almost bald. He’s in his fifties, Valjean suspects and he manages a smile. “Bonjour, Olivier.”

The nerves are slowly getting to him.

“How are the nerves?” Olivier asks him as if he could read his thoughts and he sits down on one of the ancient-looking chairs across from him - Cosette has left a couple of minutes ago to check on Marius.

“I’m coping.” Valjean smiles and tries not to think about what he’s about to do.

He notices that Oliver has a round, white box on his lap and his heart skips a beat. The first sign from his future husband.

“I’ve got a gift from your future husband,” Olivier confirms a second later and he hands him the box. “Please, open it.”

Valjean is glad his hands aren’t shaking when he lifts the lid and he carefully puts it away before glancing inside the box. The first thing he sees is a simple white card and he carefully picks it up.

“Bonjour, stranger,” he starts to read, “I hope you’re doing well. This is quite unusual, writing to someone I don’t know - I’m looking forward to meeting you soon. Warm regards, your future husband.”

His future partner doesn’t seem to be a man of many words. Maybe he also didn’t sign up for this voluntarily. Valjean holds back a sigh, Olivier also looking a little surprised at how short that was but he clears his throat.

“Is there anything else in the box?”

There is. Valjean carefully picks up the slim, silver bracelet and Olivier’s eyes light up. “Oh, this is beautiful, non?? You should wear it for the ceremony!”

For obvious reasons that are tightly connected to Toulon and the police in general, Valjean is not the biggest fan of having cold metal around his wrists but he figures right now is not the time to complain. Besides, no one in the production company knows about his past and he doubts they’d believe him if he made up a metal allergy.

He slips the bracelet over his right wrist, it touches his scar for a moment and he takes a deep breath before looking back at Olivier. The matching expert gives him a big smile, clearly pleased that his advice was followed and he gets up.

“I’m sure your future husband will appreciate it,” he tells him, “it shows your commitment to your marriage.”

Valjean holds back a comment that he isn’t so sure if his future husband is committed to said marriage and he just nods. “Of course.”

“And cut!” Someone calls out, a production assistant coming over to Valjean and she gives him a warm smile. “We have a short filming break, feel free to eat and drink something - the ceremony starts in two hours.”

He doubts he will be able to stomach anything.

~

“See, I expect both of them to be open with their feelings to each other,” Camille tells the camera, gesticulating with her hands, “that they try to understand each other and then we will already have achieved their first bonding moment!”

Javert, who actually just wanted to search for the bathroom, freezes behind the door and he feels a snort building up in his throat.

He quickly retreats to his dressing room and runs a hand over his face, shaking his head.

There are no feelings he could share and he doubts whoever is downstairs would be able to evoke some in him.

~

“Isn’t this exciting?” Cosette asks him while she fixes his hair and Valjean grunts something in response. He’s not sure if exciting is the word he would use to describe his situation but he also doesn’t want to disappoint Cosette.

“I’m sure he’s such a gentleman,” she continues and Valjean huffs. “He’s still participating in this with the hope of finding love. That sounds insane.”

“So are you, papa.” Cosette shrugs and ignores his last sentence. “And you’re quite normal.”

Did he mention he never told her about his past criminal endeavours? It would probably be better if he doesn’t bring that up now.

“Would you want a kiss after the ceremony?” She then asks, Valjean notices off-handedly that the cameras are back on them and he freezes. He did not think about a potential kiss and he feels a slight blush spread over his cheeks.

Thank god the lighting and his beard are hiding it.

“I-,” he starts and his mouth is suddenly a little dry.

He has kissed people before, sure, a few times but there was never-

There was never a relationship or sex and he’s aware that he’s a middle-aged man.

A middle-aged man who is a virgin.

He doesn’t want to think about sex yet though so he pushes that topic away and focuses on more pressing matters: If he wants to kiss his future husband after the ceremony.

“I’m sure it would be romantic,” Cosette continues and gently takes his callous hands into her slim ones. “And you’d surely regret it one day if you didn’t.”

The thought of kissing a total stranger on television still makes him blush a little. He nervously licks his lips and takes a deep breath.

He signed up for this and now he has to pull through.

“Yeah,” he hears himself say and he manages a smile, “yeah, I think a kiss would be nice.”

~

“What’s the worst that could happen?”

Ten minutes until he’s leaving for the ceremony.

Javert frowns into the camera and shifts his weight from one foot to the other.

“He could be a criminal and instead of marrying I’d have to arrest him.”

He hears someone from behind the camera snort, someone else from production giggles and the corner of the producer’s mouth twitches.

Javert’s frown deepens.

“I wasn’t joking.”

Someone laughs quietly, a few people are grinning and Javert manages just in time not to roll his eyes.

~

“How are you feeling, Jean?”

Valjean frowns and plays with his fingers. The heat of the lights around him makes him sweat a little and he’s glad when he can leave the room and head downstairs.

“A little nervous,” he admits and the producer smiles. “Any idea what your future husband might look like?”

Valjean shakes his head. “Non.”

He’s not sure if he even has a preference.

~

Javert feels like the short walk down the grand stairs of Chateau de Santeny is passing him in a blur and he grits his teeth once he’s in front of a tall, wooden door.

Behind that door is that poor fool who signed up to be his husband plus the guy’s family and some extras.

He glances at the camera and sighs. “Here goes nothing.”

He opens the door (aware they are probably using his sentence to cut to a commercial break once they broadcast the show) and steps into the room.

The room is flooded with light by tall windows, the white walls have stucco skirting and golden candelabras on them, spending a warm light and there are gorgeous flower bouquets placed everywhere.

Rows of white chairs lead up to the front, all the guests have turned around but Javert doesn’t notice any of that.

His gaze is fixated on the man looking right back at him a good ten metres away.

The fool who signed up for a show like Married at First Sight.

The fool, who is no other than Jean Valjean.

The man Javert has been hunting for over twenty years.

~

Valjean is sure this is a bad joke.

For a second he almost thinks Javert is here to arrest him until he notices the fancy suit the other man is wearing plus the cameras are still rolling.

Valjean stares at Javert, their eyes locked and he can spot absolute disbelief on the other man’s face.

It’s dead silent in the room, their guests looking from one to the other with excitement on their faces and Valjean can hear the blood rush in his ears.

Putain.

~

He’d recognise this man anywhere after Montreuil-sur-Mer.

Javert feels himself instinctively reach for his belt but of course he’s not carrying handcuffs and he can’t just potentially arrest a man on national television and he feels his heartbeat in his throat.

Someone, probably one of the production assistants, gives him a little push and it snaps him back to reality.

He’s about to marry a criminal.

Javert wants to protest, wants to run and complain but the cameras are rolling and he signed an adhesion contract he’s already regretting.

He can’t run.

Javert closes his eyes for a second before he takes a deep breath and slowly walks down the aisle.

Valjean’s gaze doesn’t leave him for even a second and from the corner of Javert’s eyes he sees a blonde girl in the first row give him a warm smile.

That must be the child Valjean stole all these years ago.

He’s very close to bolting but then he stops next to Valjean and he is reminded he’s still on national television when Valjean gives him a forced smile. “Hey.”

~

Javert looks like he’s one second away from arresting him (or punching - one can never be too sure with the inspector) but then he takes a deep breath and gives him a short nod.

The viewers will probably interpret his silence as nervousness, Valjean muses - fate truly is a funny thing sometimes.

His brain off-handedly registers that Javert looks good in his dark blue suit and he scolds himself for the thought immediately the second after. It’s truly the last of his worries right now what the inspector looks like and they turn to face the priest - although Valjean isn’t sure if it’s an actual priest who is marrying them.

He’s going to marry Javert.

Everything in Valjean screams at him to run, to leave Paris and maybe even France behind and start over somewhere else - again.

But then he sees Cosette’s encouraging smile from the corner of his eyes and feels a lump form in his throat. He knows how much this means to her and he takes a deep breath.

His shoulder brushes against Javert’s when they face the man in front of them and he pushes all worries aside.

He’ll pull through with this now.

~

Javert is pretty sure he doesn’t hear half the things the priest is telling them. He’s hyper-aware of Valjean next to him, the broad man truly hard to ignore and Javert has never felt this helpless in all of his life, not even when he was a young prison guard in Toulon all these years ago.

He can tell Valjean is also tense but he’s a much better actor than Javert, laughing at the jokes of the priest and his eyes sparkling with mischief.

Javert wants to hit him.

He doesn’t, aware he’d get in way too much trouble and he flinches when the priest turns to him.

“Is this your own free will to marry Jean Valjean? Then please answer with yes.”

They have to say yes because it’s in the contract.

He can’t say no.

Javert’s jaw is working and he grits his teeth. “Oui.”

Some of his younger colleagues cheer and Javert holds back a growl.

He’s marrying a convict. A criminal. On television. Studio 89, the production company, really should have done a better job at their background checks.

He’s making an absolute fool out of himself.

Javert feels sick while the priest turns to Valjean with a smile on his face.

“Is this your own free will to marry Javert? Then please answer with yes.”

For the first time, Valjean’s facade seems to crumble a little. Javert can hear him take a deep breath next to him but then the smile is back on Valjean’s face and he nods slightly.

“Oui.”

They’re doomed.

The blonde girl, Cosette, Javert remembers (although she’s more a woman, surely she must be in her early twenties by now) gets up and brings over a small box - the rings.

She gives them both a beaming smile and opens the box. The rings are simple: silver with the engraving amor vincit omnia on the inside - love conquers all.

What a fucking irony, Javert thinks bitterly while Valjean reaches for the first ring. His hands are shaking slightly, Javert notices with an almost grim satisfaction which turns into panic when he realises Valjean is reaching for his hand.

Javert is too late to pull back and a second later Valjean’s big hands are covering his for a second. He squeezes Javert’s hand for a moment, almost as if to reassure him (or himself) before he slips the ring over Javert’s finger.

Javert bites the inside of his cheek so hard he can taste blood, the ring cold against his skin and he realises that Valjean is wearing the silver bracelet.

The seeds, the acorn and the handwriting suddenly make so much sense and he swallows hard when he glances up and his eyes meet Valjean’s.

They stare at each other for a moment and Javert scowls before he takes the other ring. For fuck’s sake, fuck the cameras.

This is the worst decision of his life.

~

Valjean gets that Javert is anything but happy about this (neither is he) but they both signed a contract (he doubts Javert is here on an undercover mission) and now they have to pull through.

Especially because Cosette still looks so happy for him.

He can spot Marius in the first row, phone in his hand and filming the entire thing and Valjean holds back a sigh. When he glances back at Javert the other man is still frowning deeply but he slowly pushes the ring over Valjean’s finger and Valjean swallows down a comment.

It’s obvious Javert hates this as much as he does and he also doesn’t like the ring around his finger but there is nothing they can do right now - except google for a good divorce lawyer after this is over.

“I hereby pronounce you married!” The priest tells them, a big smile on his face and Valjean forces himself to smile, nudging Javert slightly. The other man just glares at him but the frown lessens a little while their guests clap and cheer loudly, Marius whistling.

Valjean sighs.

“You may kiss your husband,” the priest adds with a smirk and Valjean tenses. He sees horror flash over Javert’s face for a second and Valjean feels his mouth go dry.

He’s aware all eyes are on them, it’s quiet in the room and he acts without thinking.

He leans in and kisses Javert.

~

Javert feels his stomach drop when Valjean presses his lips against his, just for a second and a little awkward but his lips are warm and his beard scratches and-

Valjean pulls back, leaving him completely speechless.

~

Javert once more looks like he’s one second away from punching him and Valjean manages to smile at him.

“Pleasure to see you again, Inspector,” he murmurs and Javert growls quietly. “Very funny, Valjean.”

Valjean just smiles and tries not to think about what this means for his future life.

~

They leave the room shortly after to head to their reception outside in front of the château and Javert hates that the producers force them to hold hands.

It feels wrong to have Valjean’s big hand in his and he squints at the bright sunlight once they step outside. The fresh air helps a little and he takes a deep breath, wanting to let go but Valjean doesn’t let him.

“We’re not allowed to, Inspector,” he tells him, almost looking amused, a grin tugging on his lips, “would be against the rules.”

“Because you know so much about rules,” Javert spits out and he’s almost outraged when he sees the grin on Valjean’s face grow.

“You’d be surprised, Javert,” he mumbles but before Javert can bite something back the crowd has followed them and they’re surrounded by people who want to congratulate them - above all, the girl.

“Congrats, papa!!” She hugs him tightly, arms around his neck and Valjean smiles, finally letting go of Javert’s hand to hug his daughter properly.

“Merci, chérie.” He presses a gentle kiss against her cheek and Javert suddenly feels a bit useless. All of these people are obviously here for Valjean and-

“Javert, this is Cosette, my daughter.” Valjean’s voice makes his head snap up. “Cosette, this is Javert … my husband.”

Valjean’s voice sounds pressed, his eyes flickering from Javert to Cosette and back and Javert forces himself to a nod. “Nice to meet you.”

Cosette, however, seems to be her father’s complete opposite. She’s giving Javert a warm smile and before he even realises it she is hugging him as well.

“I’m so glad you are a decent man,” she tells him, her eyes sparkling. “Papa needs someone like you.”

Javert’s eyes meet Valjean’s over her shoulder and Valjean, very subtly, shakes his head.

So the girl has no idea her father is a criminal.

Great.

Great.

He doesn’t really get time to think though. Cosette steps back and then a young man is suddenly in front of him.

“Marius!” He introduces himself enthusiastically, “I’m Cosette’s fiancée! Congratulations on the wedding!!”

He shakes Javert’s hand and Javert blinks. Cosette is engaged?!

“So nice to meet you,” Marius adds and Javert barely manages a nod before more and more people congratulate him. Apparently, Marius brought his whole friend group which consists of around ten university students in their twenties - they all look like trouble. Especially the handsome one in the dark red suit.

“Already looking for a potential crime scene?” Valjean murmurs after the cake cutting when they have a second to breathe, the filming crew currently taking a break and Javert snorts. “I don’t have to look far, you’re right next to me.”

“I’m an innocent man, Javert,” Valjean tells him while he pops a strawberry from the cake into his mouth, “I didn’t do anything wrong.”

Javert scowls and he glances over his shoulder before glaring back at Valjean.

“You know exactly what you did wrong, Valjean!” He hisses. “You broke parole, you tried to escape from prison, you’re an internationally wanted con man-“

“Javert I need your opinion.” Marius falls on a chair across from him, a frown on his face and a glass of champagne in one hand. “So the guys and I, we were talking and we have this idea for a new start-up-“

Javert stares at Marius in disbelief before he looks at Valjean who just has a shit-eating grin on his face and clinks his glass against Marius’ before he gets up and disappears into the crowd.

“And you are a police inspector and we thought about this super cool new security app,” Marius continues and that’s how Javert gets dragged into a two-hour discussion about the newest apps in the security sector.

He has never been so bored in his life especially because he doesn’t know shit about apps.

He has a smartphone, mostly because of work but the only apps he uses are for work. And, well, the weather and maps app.

~

“How are you two feeling now?”

They’re back in front of the camera, together this time, it's dark outside by now and Valjean and Javert exchange a short look.

Valjean is the first one to react and he shrugs. “Very overwhelmed.”

Javert is sitting next to him, his entire body language tense. They didn’t really have a single private moment today and he forces himself to take a deep breath.

“I can’t believe I married a criminal,” he states dryly and for a second it’s quiet before Valjean laughs.

“You can’t call me a criminal just because I stole your heart, Inspector,” he replies amused and Javert grits his teeth, scowling.

~

They finally get to retire to their room (Valjean realises with dread that they don’t have single rooms anymore) around 11 pm and one of the production assistants smiles at them. “We will start tomorrow around 7 a.m. to capture your first morning together.”

“Brilliant,” Javert mutters and the production assistant winks at him before she leaves. She closes the door behind her and Valjean takes a deep breath.

It’s a nice room, it just has one problem: there is only one bed.

And there is no sofa or anything else.

Javert is still standing at the door with his suitcase so Valjean decides to just take the right side - not that it matters. He drops his bag on the bed before he turns back around and finds Javert’s gaze already on him.

Valjean can feel that the situation is about to explode any second. The tension between them has just been building all day and it’s about to come to a head any second.

“What the fuck,” Javert starts quietly, his eyes dark, “are you doing here, 24601?”

Valjean feels a shiver run down his spine at the number and he holds back a growl.

“Don’t call me that,” he tells Javert while crossing his arms in front of his chest and his eyes wander over the other man. “And besides, I could ask you the same thing.”

Javert snorts. “I should arrest you on the spot-“

“You can try,” Valjean interrupts him and he feels himself slowly getting pissed, his eyes darkening as well, “but you know I have the best lawyers in France working for me.”

Javert grits his teeth and takes a step forward. “You’re a goddamn criminal taking part in a dating show on national television-“

“I’m doing it for Cosette, non?!” Valjean growls, their voices getting louder and Javert snorts. “For the girl you stole?”

“Careful, Javert,” Valjean snaps, the anger rising in him and he forces himself to take a deep breath, his short nails digging into the palm of his hand, “you should know better than anyone to throw around baseless accusations.”

Javert looks like he’s about to punch him and honestly, Valjean thinks bitterly, at this point, he wouldn’t be surprised if this turned physical.

Not that it would really be a fair fight.

Javert seems to remember that as well because he takes a step back but there is nothing but contempt in his eyes.

“You’re doing it for her?!” He hisses and Valjean shrugs. “She’s moving out soon and feels bad about leaving me on my own. She signed me up, thought I’d find someone.”

“And how did that work out for you?” Javert replies sarcastically.

Valjean raises an eyebrow. “How did that work out for you, Inspector? I never thought you’d be so desperate to participate in a show like that.”

For a second, Javert looks almost embarrassed but he’s quick to school his facial expressions back into a scowl.

“Well, this has no future anyway so we will tell the producers tomorrow-“

“Oh no no no!” Valjean interrupts him sharply. “We will not back out of this now. Believe me, you’re the last person I’d want to be married to but I’m not doing this to Cosette.”

She had looked so genuinely happy for him and he just wants her to live her life without having to worry about him.

Javert stares at him speechless. “You- absolutely not, I will not be married to a criminal-“

“You already are,” Valjean reminds him, effectively making Javert flinch, “and you’re not getting out of this except you manage to pay for lawyers good enough to get you out of the contract - which I doubt your salary covers.”

Javert swallows visibly and Valjean knows he hit the nail on the head.

If they really want to end this after a year, Valjean is certain his lawyers will find a way - they’ve done much more complicated things.

Like hiding his past criminal records.

But without him, Javert can’t do shit and Valjean sighs. “Now, why did you sign up for this?”

“I’m here to prove a point to my colleagues,” Javert hisses, “not that it’s any of your business.”

“I hate to break it to you, Javert, but we are married by law now,” Valjean replies dryly, “your business is also my business.”

“Since when do you care about the law?” Javert bites back and Valjean raises an eyebrow. “Well, I know you do.”

Javert stares at him for a moment before he grits his teeth and turns around. He doesn’t leave the room though - not entirely. He just heads into the bathroom, slamming the door shut behind him and Valjean sighs.

He sinks on the bed and closes his eyes, feeling a headache forming.

This is an absolute nightmare but he’s doing this for Cosette.

~

Javert doesn’t sleep at all that night. He’s lying awake for most of the time, hyper-aware of the broad man next to him and twice he thinks Valjean is going to kill him in his sleep.

He doesn’t.

Valjean sleeps through the whole night, snoring slightly and Javert runs a hand over his face.

Valjean probably slept in much worse places in the past and Javert slowly sits up. His watch tells him it’s 6 a.m. and he glances out of the tall windows, the sun already rising.

The châteaux and its surrounding parks are beautiful but Javert isn’t really in the mood to enjoy the scenery. He’d rather be in his dark, stuffy apartment in Paris than wake up next to Jean Valjean and he tugs on his t-shirt.

He feels awkward, and out of his element - he misses his uniform. He’s wearing an old t-shirt, something he got in a sale about ten years ago and he takes a deep breath.

Valjean’s clothes are definitely more expensive and it’s ironic, Javert thinks bitterly, how they both came from nothing and yet their lives took such different terms.

Javert worked his way up while Valjean became a thief and simply took whatever he wanted.

The first sun rays shine through the windows and he stifles a yawn before he gets up. Valjean is still snoring behind him and Javert heads into the bathroom.

He dreads their honeymoon on Porquerolles, an island on the Côte d'Azur and the two weeks they’ll spend there. He has no idea what they’re even supposed to do on Porquerolles and he doubts the production company will let them spend time apart.

Javert splashes some cold water on his face and decides to get ready.

They start filming around 7 a.m. and he doesn’t want them to catch him in his old sleeping clothes.

~

When Valjean wakes up, the side next to him on the bed is deserted. He can hear water running from the bathroom though so he suspects Javert didn’t bolt and he sits up with a sigh, running a hand over his face.

He’s also not thrilled to head to Porquerolles but it is what it is now. Filming will only be two more weeks (in a luxury resort on the Côte d'Azur, his brain reminds him helpfully) and then they’ll figure something out.

He pushes away the remaining four weeks of filming that are still in the contract.

“Good morning!” A loud voice calls out and Valjean manages just in time to pull the blanket over himself before the door opens and Sofia, one of the production assistants, enters the room with a camera crew in tow. “How did you two sleep?”

Valjean stares at her, squinting his eyes at the brightness coming from the lights the crew brought with them and Sofia looks through the room. “And where’s your husband?”

“Bathroom,” Valjean mumbles and he slowly sits up again, rubbing his eyes. Calling Javert his husband feels wrong and he’s pretty sure the crew barging into their private bedroom like this is an invasion of privacy but then again, he signed the contract.

He should’ve really read the contract more closely like Eponine always tells him - his daughter’s best friend is studying law and she might have had a point with her comment.

The bathroom door opens and they all turn their heads at the same time to look at Javert who freezes. He’s already dressed and he stares at Sofia and the camera crew before glancing at Valjean.

Valjean just shrugs and he can see the scowl forming on Javert’s face - before he can say something though Sofia steps forward with a broad smile.

“Javert, how was the first night next to your husband??”

Javert blinks, clearly as overwhelmed as Valjean and he clears his throat.

“… unusual,” he eventually states dryly and Sofia beams at him. “I can imagine! How about you, Jean?”

She turns back to Valjean, and so does the camera and the light and Valjean squints again.

“I, uh, slept very well,” he replies politely, “but of course, this is a new situation for both of us.”

If Javert is already so short-tempered with the crew, Valjean thinks, then he can at least make an effort. After all, Sofia is just doing her job and so is the rest of the filming crew.

“I’m sure we will get used to each other soon,” he adds and Javert huffs but Sofia beams at them. “I think so as well! Now, we will leave for your honeymoon shortly so feel free to get ready.”

They - thank god - turn around and Valjean finally can get out of bed - he really doesn’t need the whole country to see his blue-chequered pyjama pants.

“Now that was awkward,” he states and Javert snorts before he heads over to his luggage. He doesn’t look like he slept much the past night and Valjean holds back a sigh before he heads into the bathroom.

They have a brief meeting with the film crew after this (no breakfast, they only get a few sandwiches and coffee to go) and then they’re ushered downstairs and out of the châteaux.

Valjean actually thought they wanted to get them to the honeymoon as soon as possible but then he spots Cosette and Marius waiting for them and he freezes on the grand stairs in front of the old building.

“Papa!” Cosette calls out happily, walking towards him and Valjean feels Javert tense next to him.

They’ve barely exchanged more than two words this morning and Valjean hugs Cosette who gives him a warm smile. She wearing long, loose white linen pants, a blue blouse tucked into the hem of her pants and her blonde hair is in a messy ponytail.

“We just wanted to say goodbye before your honeymoon,” she tells him, turning to Javert. “Given we won’t be seeing you for a while.”

She also hugs Javert who looks incredibly awkward and Valjean wonders when the other man was hugged the last time. He knows Javert didn’t have family attend the wedding but surely he must have friends who he hugs sometimes? At least for his birthday?

“I’m sure you’ll have such a good time!” Marius says, a huge smile on his face. “I’ve heard Porquerolles is so nice!!”

“I’m sure it’ll be,” Valjean replies, forcing himself to smile. He’s aware they’re being filmed and he subtly nudges Javert - he can’t do all the work here.

Javert clears his throat and throws him a glare but then he forces himself to a thin smile, nodding. “The Côte d'Azur is beautiful this time of the year.”

Cosette smiles and links her fingers with Marius while they take a step back. “Well, we expect a lot of pictures in the group chat - Papa you still have to add Javert!”

Javert grimaces and Valjean actually has to laugh at the surreality of the situation. He never expected to add Javert of all people to their family group chat and he nods. “I will once we are at the airport.”

“Oh that’s great, then I can text you about the startup I told you about!” Marius tells Javert. “Enjolras had a few ideas last night and I need your opinion.”

Javert looks like he bit into something sour and Valjean can’t help the grin that’s spreading over his face. Cosette looks amused as well and Javert clears his throat.

“That sounds .. great,” he says slowly and then, after another round of hugs, the film crew ushers them to the historic Mercedes that is already waiting for them, ready to bring them to the airport.

“I see you’ve met Marius,” Valjean says amused once they’re driving off the property and Javert raises an eyebrow. “Was hard not to.”

Valjean just grins and looks out of the window.

They don’t talk much for the rest of the drive (Valjean wouldn’t even know where to start and it’s not like they have much to talk about) and when they arrive at the airport, Sofia ushers them in front of the camera for another interview.

“Can you tell us a bit about your life before this?”

Valjean smiles and shrugs. “I have led quite an unexciting life so far. I’m a simple man.”

He doesn’t miss how Javert next to him grits his teeth and Valjean has a pretty good idea why: the inspector knows he has been mayor of a whole village under a false name.

He doesn’t say anything though and Sofia gives them a nod and that’s that.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert does find it a bit funny when he notices that their flight goes to Toulon. They’ll probably take a boat from there but he hasn’t missed the slight panicked look in Valjean’s eyes when they got handed their tickets and he feels some of kind of odd satisfaction in him when they walk towards their gate.

He hasn’t flown in ages, prefers trains or the car most of the time but he understands that they have a tight filming schedule - the plane is quicker.

Doesn’t mean he enjoys the one-and-half-hour flight even if it’s Business Class.

A car takes them from the airport in Toulon to the harbour where they enter a boat and Valjean relaxes visibly once they’ve left the mainland behind them.

Javert watches him carefully (while of course making sure Valjean doesn’t notice) just in case he tries anything stupid but then again: They’re on a boat.

They’re about to be on an island for two weeks.

He’s not really sure what Valjean could have tried.

He does like to be prepared though.

After only ten minutes, their boat docks on Porquerolles and Javert takes a deep breath. The salty ocean air is filling his lungs and he shoulders his bag before walking off the boat together with Valjean. The film crew is right behind them, filming every single one of their steps and Javert is genuinely glad to be back on solid ground.

He’s not the biggest fan of boats.

Porquerolles is much more rural than he thought. The little village is nestled into the crescent shape of the island, hundreds of white little fishing and sailing boats are tied to the quay and the small stone houses are surrounded by lush vegetation.

The water is a deep turquoise and Sofia leads them into the village, past a large square, a church, a cluster of shops and several cafes and restaurants with chairs and tables outside.

Javert feels a bit of sweat trickle down his neck, his suitcase way too heavy and he feels people staring at them.

Couldn’t they have taken a car in that heat? Surley they must have the budget for that-

“Let me take that for you.” Valjean suddenly shows up next to him with a kind smile, easily hoisting his own bag over his shoulder before carrying Javert’s suitcase and Javert blinks.

He wants to protest that he’s not some damsel in distress and that he very well can carry his own luggage but it’s hot and besides, if Valjean wants to have the extra work-

He can use his inhuman strength for good, Javert thinks bitterly and tries not to stare too much at Valjean’s arm muscles.

The cameras obviously captured the moment and Javert, now only with his backpack, forces himself to a nod.

They reach their destination shortly after and Javert has to admit that their hotel is absolutely gorgeous. It’s an old mansion with a few separate bungalows, palm trees and different flowers growing everywhere and Javert swallows hard when he sees the marble floors.

He has not been on a holiday in forever and even if he had been: He would have never been able to afford a five star luxury resort like this one.

He feels incredibly awkward and out of his element, his shorts and plain white shirt definitely not what guests of this place normally wear and he is hyper aware of the cameras around them.

Valjean is chatting with Sofia and the receptionist while the crew takes a short break and Javert shifts from one foot to the other. He feels like he should participate a little more but he doesn’t really know how and he looks up when Valjean and Sofia come back over to him.

“Got our keys,” Valjean tells him with a grin, handing him an actual key (not one of these plastic cards they seem to have in almost every hotel by now) and Javert nods shortly. “Thank you.”

He’s still a little tense around Valjean, still uneasy - how could he not? That man is a criminal and no one seems to care (or know).

Javert takes a deep breath, it’s still way too hot but at least Valjean still seems adamant on carrying his luggage and they head towards their bungalow.

It’s a gorgeous little cottage with its own small pool and a view over the sea, flowers groing next to the wooden door and Javert is at least glad they seem to have some privacy here.

That is, until they step into the cool bedroom and he realises it’s just one bed. Again.

Of course there is only one bed, this is supposed their honeymoon, there are red rose petals on the bed and Javert sighs before he just drops his backpack on the floor. He ignores the towels which have been folded to look like swans.

“Any preferred side you want to sleep on?” He asks Valjean and Valjean hesitates. “I’d prefer the window if you don’t mind.”

Javert doesn’t mind and he takes the other side. There are some cold drinks in the mini fridge and after he gulped down half a bottle of water he at least doesn’t feel like he’s melting into a puddle any second anymore.

His stomach hurts a little now, though.

Valjean has headed into the bathroom, the filming crew is currently giving them a bit of time to unpack in peace without a camera shoved into their faces and Javert opens his backpack.

He puts his phone charger and a cheap crime novel he was reading on the nightstand (a guilty pleasure of his, sue him) before something wooden falls into his hands.

He swallows hard when he realises what it is.

Years ago, shortly after Valjean had been appointed mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer and they had met again, Valjean had gifted Javert a rosary.

Javert stares at the rosary and slowly lets it run through his fingers.

He never really thought much about it - the rosary has become a comfort item for him in the past few years and he slowly closes his fingers around it before mumbling a quiet prayer.

He will need all the help he can get for the next two weeks.

~

This should be paradise but it isn’t.

Valjean watches Javert sit on one of the chairs next to the pool, sunglasses on his face and his entire body language tense.

The filming crew hovers around them, ready for them to do and Valjean sighs. He feels like an animal in the zoo. He also has the feeling Javert has no idea how to relax properly and it’s driving him a little insane.

“Have you never been on a holiday, Javert?” He asks him amused and Javert looks up. There is a frown on his forehead (but when isn’t there, Valjean muses) and he huffs. “Well maybe I could relax better if I wasn’t around a criminal who could steal my things at any time.”

Valjean can hear someone from production giggle and he sighs before he pulls his shirt over his head, deciding to ignore the other man’s criminal comments - it’s not like it’s getting them anywhere.

“What do you think you’re doing??” Javert stares at him incredulously, a hint of panic in his voice and Valjean blinks. “Getting a tan?”

He slips out of his shorts as well, wearing bathing shorts below and he jumps into the pool. The water is refreshingly cool, a nice change to the sun and when he dives back up he finds Javert staring at him.

He’s not wearing his sunglasses anymore, grey eyes focused on him and Valjean grins. “Want to join me?”

“Fuck off,” Javert replies dryly but he keeps staring at him and Valjean grins. He swims a few laps around the pool while Javert has settled on reading one of these cheap crime novels you can buy at every airport.

Valjean is pretty sure though that Javert is not actually reading and instead is watching him - he hasn’t turned a page of his book in five minutes.

They do spend a more or less peaceful afternoon together though and dinner that evening is served on the small terrace in front of their cottage.

They’re both still a little tense, hyperaware of the cameras around them, the heat draining them and Valjean is not an idiot - he can tell Javert didn’t sleep much the past night.

He must be incredibly exhausted.

“It’s quite nice here though, don’t you think?” Valjean starts when they’re sitting across from each other for dinner and Javert looks up. There are dark shadows under his eyes and he nods slowly. “It is.”

There is only one camera around right now, most of the production team has already retired for the night to their own accommodations and Valjean wants to say something when something soft and hairy brushes past his naked leg.

He glances down and a wide smile spreads over his face when he spots a black and white cat. She meows demandingly but before Valjean can pet her or give her something from his thunfish starter the cat is already strutting over to Javert.

She meows at him as well and Javert blinks a little confused. He pats her awkwardly and the cat immediately head bumps his hand, rubbing herself against his hand and leg. Valjean can hear her purr and a small smile spreads over Javert’s face.

“Are you here on your own, cat?” He asks her quietly, his voice softer than Valjean has ever heard it and the cat meows again.

“Maybe a stray,” Valjean offers and Javert glances up, their eyes locking for a second before he nods shortly. “Probably.”

The cat lies down next to Javert’s feet on the ground and Valjean grins. “See, you already made a new friend.”

Javert grumbles something but there is a small blush spreading over his cheeks and Valjean watches him a bit fascinated. He never thought Javert a cat person but he can’t deny that he’s positively surprised.

“I can’t believe they offer pineapple pizza,” Javert mutters when he looks through the menu after petting the cat and Valjean’s lips twitch. “What’s wrong with pineapple on pizza?”

“It’s an abomination!” Javert looks up and stares at Valjean. “You can’t tell me you enjoy that?!”

He doesn’t but he does like to challenge Javert a little.

“I mean, you can enjoy it, Marius likes it too,” Valjean counters calmly and Javert snorts. “I’m not sure if Marius is the best judge for that.”

He’s not wrong.

“People like different things, Javert,” Valjean says amused, “it’s perfectly valid to enjoy pineapple on your pizza.”

“It’s a crime against Italy,” Javert mutters and Valjean smirks. “And you know all about crime, don’t you?”

“I could ask you the same,” Javert counters and Valjean’s smirk grows. He realises he enjoys these little arguments with Javert, to argue just for the sake of it and he shrugs nonchalantly.

“We all enjoy different things,” he states diplomatically and Javert narrows his eyes. “Then you surely don’t mind ordering a pineapple pizza, do you?”

“Ah well, you see,” Valjean coughs quietly and he grins. “I don’t actually like pineapple on pizza, I think it’s disgusting.”

Javert stares at him as if he has lost his mind and Valjean grins. “I think I’ll go for the fish.”

“You-“ Javert breaks off when his phone vibrates and he glances at it, raising his eyebrows. “I’m part of your WhatsApp group now.”

“Congratulations,” Valjean tells him amused, “get ready for multiple business idea updates from Marius, endless cat pictures and a weekly discussion of the last episode of House of Dragon.”

“House of what now?” Javert frowns and Valjean shrugs. “Some Game of Thrones Spin-Off Cosette and Marius make me watch.”

“Never heard of it,” Javert mutters and Valjean shrugs again. “It’s not bad and it’s nice to have that one evening together where we cook and watch the episode.”

“You cook?” That comes out before Javert can hold himself back and Valjean grins. “Surprised? I’m a man of many talents.”

“I don’t doubt that,” Javert mutters bitterly and Valjean’s grin grows before he takes a sip from his wine. The sun is setting at the horizon, the air is still warm and Valjean almost enjoys himself.

“I cook,” he confirms after putting down his glass again, “not very well but I enjoy making something from scratch with the vegetables from my garden.”

Javert stares at him again as if he has lost his mind and Valjean holds back a sigh. He has accepted that Javert will forever only see him as 24601, the convict from Toulon, but it’s getting a little exhausting.

“A garden?” Javert replies slowly and Valjean nods. “A garden.”

Javert looks like he doesn’t know what to do with that information and Valjean smiles amused. “I can show you when we are back in Paris.”

Their food arrives right at that moment and Valjean takes a picture of it before sending it into the group chat.

“Why?” Javert asks dryly after he checks his phone and Valjean smiles while he starts to eat. “I promised to keep her updated.”

“Don’t tell me you’re one of these people who always have to take a picture of their food,” Javert scowls and Valjean raises an eyebrow. “What’s wrong with that?”

“It’s ridiculous.”

“Either the food is so good that I want to share it with the people I love - even if it’s just by picture - or it’s just a small happy memory for myself.” Valjean takes another sip from his wine and glances at Javert for a moment before turning back to his food. “Nevertheless it made me happy, looking back at the picture reminds me of the happy moment and isn’t that the most important thing?”

Javert seems too stunned to reply and Valjean takes that as a win.

Baby steps.

~

It’s the second night he’s sleeping next to Jean Valjean and Javert still can’t get a wink of sleep. He does sleep a little more than the past night but he still wakes up multiple times after dreaming that Valjean is going to kill him in his sleep.

Every time he switches on the lights and looks over to the other side of the bed but Valjean sleeps peacefully, snoring quietly.

Given he can’t fall asleep immediately again right after he spends the time scrolling through the WhatsApp group chat - Cosette and Marius text a lot. It makes something in Javert yearn, a faint feeling he can’t quite place and he stares at the picture of a cat Cosette sent.

He has never been part of a WhatsApp group chat before, never really having had the friends for that and being included like this feels … odd.

And nice, although he ignores that feeling.

It’s 7:30 am when Javert, after dozing off around 4 am, wakes up again and he blinks tiredly. The side next to him is empty, there are no cameras around yet and he freezes when he hears Valjean quietly talking to someone.

Javert is suddenly wide awake and he almost falls out of bed when he wants to get up and gets tangled up in the sheets. He lets out an unwilling noise before he throws the sheets on the bed and sneaks to the door that leads to the terrace to glance outside.

Valjean, who is only wearing an old t-shirt and boxer shorts (in which he sleeps) is sitting on his chair at the table next to the pool and is on his phone.

There are still no cameras around and Javert frowns. What-

“Yeah I think we get along,” Valjean says at that moment while he plays with his key for the cottage. “He- we just need a bit of time, I guess. I’ve only known him for a few days after all.”

He must be talking to Cosette, Javert realises and his stomach churns at the realisation. So she really doesn’t know their backstory.

Of course, it could all be a ploy by Valjean, a devious plan with his daughter to eventually rob Javert or worse but …

Javert somehow doubts that.

Valjean shifts on the chair, stretching out his legs and Javert hasn’t seen Valjean this unguarded in like, ever. The older man is still playing with the cottage key, listening to Cosette and Javert uneasily shifts from one foot to the other.

His spy mission has turned into an invasion of privacy and maybe he should leave again-

“I’m sure it’ll be fine,” Valjean says, looking a bit pained but his voice is gentle and Javert swallows dryly. Valjean is really doing this whole thing only for his daughter to make her happy.

Javert doesn’t really know what to make of that information and he stares at Valjean who puts the key down on the table.

“Give Marius my love,” he tells Cosette, grimacing before a small smile spreads over his face. “Love you too, talk soon. Bye.”

He hangs up and Javert feels the heat in his cheeks.

Something oddly warm rushed through him at the last part and he frowns at himself. Probably just the fact that he saw a different side of Valjean for once.

Nothing else.

He is about to debate how to sneak back inside unseen when something meows next to him, effectively blowing his cover and Valjean’s head snaps up. His eyes meet Javert’s, the younger man flushing slightly while the black and white stray cat from last night brushes past his legs.

“Good morning,” Valjean says slowly, a smile spreading over his face and Javert awkwardly clears his throat.

“Morning,” he replies briskly and Valjean nods at the other free chair. “Want to join me?”

They’re still alone without cameras and Javert hesitates for a second before he nods and walks over to Valjean. The cat follows them and Javert sits down across from the older man.

It’s quiet apart from the waves swapping against the beach a few metres away and some birds singing in the distance and Valjean clears his throat.

“I talked to Cosette,” he tells Javert, waving at his phone. “I know we aren’t really allowed to have personal phone calls but … I wanted to let her know I’m fine.”

He almost looks guilty about breaking the phone rule and Javer blinks. The cat is still brushing past his legs and his mouth is suddenly a little dry.

He tries not to stare at Valjean’s muscular arms and just waves dismissively. “I get it. I … won’t tell anyone.”

He doesn’t really get it - he has no one he feels like calling and updating about how his adventure is going. Maybe that’s also just sad but he really doesn’t want to analyse it further.

Valjean looks relieved at his words but before he can reply the film crew arrives and effectively ends their conversation.

He and Valjean get ready before breakfast is served once more on their little terrace right next to the pool and Javert blinks when he realises Valjean is still wearing the silver bracelet Javert gifted him before the wedding.

He didn’t expect Valjean to keep wearing it, he actually thought the older one would throw it into the ocean at the first chance he got and he tries not to stare at it all the time.

He did use half of his monthly salary to pay for it and the fact that Valjean keeps wearing it makes his stomach feel funny.

Their day is very uneventful, almost boring. They spend most of the time at the pool, Javert reading his book while Valjean is either swimming or sleeping and they don’t really talk or interact in general, much to the dismay of their film crew.

Except for when Valjean arrives with a coconut that has a straw sticking in it and Javert stares at him, pretty sure Valjean has lost his mind.

“What?” Valjean eventually asks and Javert can’t help himself.

“Is that a fucking umbrella in your drink?!” He bursts out and he can see how Valjean’s lips twitch.

“It is,” Valjean confirms cheerfully, “adds to the vacation sprint, don’t you think?”

Javert scowls before turning back to his book with a shake of his head. The stray cat is around again as well, sleeping peacefully in the shadows of a big bush and two palm trees and Javert turns a page of his book.

Although the film crew seems a little frustrated by their lack of action, Javert doesn’t mind. He almost likes the peaceful co-existing with Valjean (although he should still arrest the man) and he manages a smile when Valjean sends a pool selfie of them into the group chat.

Cosette didn’t seem that bad and it’s not her fault her father is a convict.

“Javert?” His head snaps up at Valjean’s voice and the other man gives him an apologetic smile.

“Listen, I know you’re reading but … I caught a sunburn across my shoulders yesterday.”

He gesticulates towards his back, currently still hidden under a dark blue t-shirt and Javert snorts. “That’s your own fault for going into the sun without sunscreen.”

He is a little triumphant and Valjean sighs deeply. “I know, it was stupid and now it hurts a lot. I won’t do it again. But I can’t reach it on my own.”

Javert stares at him a little confused before he slowly starts to realise what this means. Oh no. Oh no no no-

Oh he’s going to murder Jean Valjean.

“Please?” Valjean offers him the bottle with after-sun lotion and Javert growls unwillingly before taking the bottle.

“You are an idiot,” he tells Valjean and tries not to stare too much at Valjean’s muscular back - and fails given he’s applying the soothing lotion to it. “Do you know how bad a sun burn is for the skin??”

“You sound like Cosette,” Valjean grumbles and Javert snorts, squeezing some lotion on Valjean’s back. “Maybe because we’re both right.”

The lotion is cool but Valjean doesn’t seem to mind and Javert starts to gently spread it over his shoulders. He winces when he sees some scars on Valjean’s back and makes sure not to touch them. He has a faint idea where they’re coming from and he applies some more lotion.

He can feels the muscles work under Valjean’s skin and Javert is pretty sure his face is as red as the skin on Valjean’s back by now. He also knows the camera is probably filming all of this but it’s not like he really had a choice.

His hand gently runs over the scars, Valjean shivers instinctively and Javert feels a pang of guilt in his chest. The scars don’t come from his hands - he’d never abuse another person like that.

But he knows that some of his former colleagues in Toulon had certain … “methods” to deal with high-risk prisoners.

“There you go,” Javert mumbles eventually, wiping his hands clean on his own thighs after putting the bottle down and Valjean turns around.

“Thank you,” he says quietly, a hesitant smile spreading over his face and Javert suddenly notices how close they’re sitting. He can feels Valjean’s body heat, can smell the other man’s aftershave and it’s suddenly so much more present than during the night.

There are crinkles around Valjean’s eyes, from age and laughter and Javert feels his heartbeat in his throat.

He swallows dryly and quickly gets up.

“Just look after your skin some more,” he mutters before he almost flees inside to get something to drink.

~

Mentally, Valjean is still at Javert applying the after-sun lotion to his back this afternoon. He’s currently getting ready for dinner, they’re having traditional French cuisine tonight (or so the film crew told them) and he stares at himself in the mirror.

Javert was much more gentle when applying the lotion than Valjean had anticipated him to be.

He must have seen the scars, must have noticed what his former colleagues did and yet he was gentle.

Valjean shakes his head and takes a deep breath before slipping into a fresh shirt.

There is no good in dwelling about this and he heads outside to the terrace. Their stray cat is already there, currently getting fed by someone from the film crew and Sofia gives him a warm smile.

“How are you feeling?” She asks him and Valjean frowns. He’s aware he’s in front of the camera and she’s not visible and he sits down on his chair.

“I’m excited for the food,” he tells her with a small smile, “so far, I haven’t been disappointed here.”

He looks up when Javert comes outside as well and their eyes meet for a second before the younger man heads to his chair.

“We already have some starters,” Valjean tells him, gesticulating at the table, “baguette and olive tapenade.”

“Looks good.” Javert reaches for his wine glass and Valjean takes his own glass as well, clinking it against Javert’s.

It’s not as awkward or tense as it was yesterday, Valjean thinks and he takes a sip of his wine.

“So, have you caught any criminals lately?” He asks and Javert chokes on his wine.

~

Javert coughs and Valjean gets up to pat his back, maybe with a little more force than necessary.

“Merci,” Javert gasps and Valjean gives him an apologetic smile before heading back to his chair. Javert takes a deep breath (thankfully, he didn’t spill any wine on his shirt or food) and picks in his vegetables.

He glances back at Valjean for a moment but the older one just calmly cuts his roasted branzino, not looking like he’s making fun of Javert and he sighs.

“Work was … stressful the past few weeks,” he replies slowly and shovels a bit of brown rice on his fork. “A lot of .. things happening.”

When he glances up he finds Valjean’s eyes on him and the older man looks almost concerned.

Javert doesn’t really know what to do with that emotion so he keeps talking.

“Did a lot of overtime,” he says, feeling a bit nervous all of a sudden, “mostly night shifts.”

“That can’t be healthy, non?” Valjean frowns and Javert shrugs. “Most of my colleagues have families at home so working nights wasn’t really for them. And crime doesn’t sleep.”

It’s a cliche sentence, he’s aware of that but it’s also sadly true.

“There were also a lot of demonstrations latently,” he adds, “which meant crowds and drunk people, some got violent.”

He despises crowds but it sadly comes with the job.

“Have you considered switching to a different department?” Valjean asks him, his eyes still filled with concern and Javert doesn’t get it.

Why would Jean Valjean be concerned about him?

He just shakes his head but suddenly he can’t stop himself anymore. He starts talking about work, about some jewellery thief they were hunting for months until they finally arrested him two weeks ago.

Valjean is a surprisingly good conversation partner. He asks the right question, makes Javert feel genuinely listened to and he completely forgets they’re being filmed.

It’s still a rather superficial conversation given it’s mostly about Javert’s work but-

It’s a start.

Although Javert isn’t sure the start of what and if he even wants that start.

He finds the rosary in the pocket of his pants that night and when Valjean is in the bathroom and the cameras are gone, he lets it run through his fingers while whispering a quiet prayer to God.

~

“I stole a breadstick from breakfast,” Valjean tells Javert cheerfully the next morning while they’re walking through Porquerolles, “as a snack for the way.”

Javert stops dead in his tracks next to him and slowly turns his head. “What?”

“I stole a breadstick,” Valjean replies amused and proudly presents his loot to the other man. “As a snack. After all we’re going on a small hike.”

Javert does not look amused.

“Do you think this is a joke?”

“I do, actually.” Valjean grins at him and Javert growls unwillingly while shouldering his backpack.

Valjean obviously knows what he’s doing but sue him, he enjoys teasing Javert, especially now that they can talk to each other without insulting each other most of the time.

His first ever con he pulled off was related to bread - more or less. He swindled two million euros from a bakery chain and only got caught because he didn’t know how to cover his tracks yet.

But it is easier to say “he went to prison for bread” than “he almost ruined an entire bakery chain” and Valjean feels like after nineteen years he can make this a little running joke between him and Javert.

Besides, he got much better at pulling cons after that and never got caught again (except those four times he tried to escape prison).

Although Javert was always very close.

But in Valjean’s defence, he never hurt someone - and he needed the money. His nephew needed food, his sister was poor, he was poor and growing up like he did … there weren’t that many options.

Besides, coning people is also highly addicting.

But his current business is 100 % legal - otherwise he’d have never agreed to the show and his lawyers would have killed him for all that overtime.

“You’re impossible,” Javert mutters and Valjean’s grin grows. “Oh come on, Javert, laugh a little.”

Javert gives him a deadly glare that just makes Valjean grin even more while the sun shines down on them.

“The law is nothing to joke about,” Javert mutters, “it’s the only thing that keeps this country together - that and our obsession with bread.”

“So we make the perfect pair,” Valjean points out, “your love for the law and my love for bread.”

“It makes us French,” Javert states dryly but there is a grin tugging on his lips and Valjean counts that as a win.

Their hike over the island takes them around twenty minutes before they reach their picnic spot and Valjean frowns. “Hm. The bread crime was not necessary, I see.”

There is a beautiful picnic blanket on the ground under peach and fig trees, a big basket filled with bread, cheese, grapes and some sweet treats such as macrons already waiting for them next to a bottle of Champagner and Javert snorts. “Always the criminal.”

They sit down on the blanket and Valjean takes a deep breath. They have passed multiple vineyards on the way here, they have a beautiful view over the deep-blue ocean from their spot and the air is smelling sweet due to all the flowers.

He can spot a few lemon, orange and mandarin trees in the distance, everything is so much more colourful than back in Paris (then again, he doesn’t know any place more depressing than Paris in winter) and he crosses his legs.

There is an incredible high variety of different flowers on the island and he has spent some time this morning sketching a few of them.

“It’s nice here.” Javert’s quiet voice makes him look up and Valjean’s eyes wander over the other man for a second. Javert isn’t as tense right now as he normally is, his white t-shirt a stark contrast to his usual uniform or long coat and he has tied his long hair back. He’s playing with his hands, probably a bit nervous and he crosses his legs on the picnic blanket.

He looks good, Valjean thinks, relaxed and he doesn’t know what to do with that information. It does make him happy though to see the other man so calm and he nods.

“The vegetation on the island is beautiful,” he replies, “I haven’t seen this many Aleppo pines and maritime pines anywhere else before.”

“I’m still surprised you like gardening so much.” Javert frowns while he breaks off a piece of the baguette. “Why? It’s dirty and half the time nothing grows anyway.”

“It’s calming.” Valjean shrugs and takes a sip from the Champagner. It’s cool when it runs down his throat and he runs a hand through his hair. “And we all need a hobby, don’t we? What’s your hobby, Javert? Well, when you aren’t doing overtime.”

Javert grimaces, he looks almost a little embarrassed for a second before he shrugs and avoids Valjean’s glance. “I like to read. Mostly, uh, cheap crime novels.”

The tips of his ears turn a slight pink and Valjean feels a smile spread over his face while warmth spreads through his chest.

“I like to read too,” he tells Javert, “I have a small library at home. Marius always asks me why I don’t convert the room into a home cinema - he isn’t the reading books type of person.”

“You don’t say,” Javert mutters but there is a grin tugging on his lips when their eyes meet and Valjean feels a shot of adrenaline run through his veins.

“How does he even fit into this?” Javert gesticulates with his hand before offering Valjean some grapes. “I mean, I know Cosette is … your daughter. But how did she meet someone like him?!”

Valjean prays he can somehow keep Marius away from watching the show once it airs and he grimaces.

“Cosette and I, we were out in the city, shopping - well, she dragged me along, said I needed new clothes and all.” He smiles at the memory and offers Javert some cheese. His heart does jump a little when Javert actually takes it.

“Well, we went to a mall and while she was in a shop, I was waiting outside, I saw this guy choke on something. Went over, used the Heimlich and saved his life.”

“It was Marius?”

“It was Marius,” Valjean confirms and they share a look of understanding and Valjean sighs. “And at that moment, Cosette came outside and saw him. They got talking, exchanged phone numbers and now they’re engaged.”

Javert’s lips twitch. “My condolences.”

Valjean laughs and they keep chatting - about Valjean’s family, about Cosette’s job as a primary school teacher, about places he travelled to with her and he is surprised how easy it is to talk to Javert.

The inspector seems to loosen up more and more, both of them forgetting about the cameras around them and after their picnic they continue their hike - though ‘walk’ seems more appropriate given it’s not very mountainous.

It’s a beautiful day, the sky a clear blue with not a single cloud in it and Valjean feels his arm brush against Javert’s while walking. He tries to ignore it, currently pointing out some plants to the other man but it still sends a shiver down his spine.

He realises he doesn’t want to run anymore the second he’s this close to Javert and it scares him a little bit.

~

Javert has to admit that Porquerolles truly is a beautiful place. He has never been on one of the islands of the Côte d'Azur (mostly, next to having barely no vacation time, because he would have never been able to afford it with his salary) and his gaze wanders over the blue lagoon that is in front of them.

It’s tucked between two cliffs with only a small gravel path leading down to it and he carefully follows Valjean down to the clear water.

The advantage of this is that he film crew is too far away to actually pick up their conversation and Valjean pulls his white linen shirt over his head.

“What are you doing?” Javert frowns, watching how Valjean also slips out of his shorts and he tries very hard not to stare at his muscular chest or the tattoo on it. Or the big arms.

“Going swimming?” Valjean raises an eyebrow, already having one foot in the turquoise water. “It’s really hot today.”

It really is and Javert swallows dryly but shrugs. “If you think that’s a good idea.”

“You’re not coming?” Valjean asks while he steps further into the sea but Javert quickly shakes his head. “No, I’m good.”

He sits down on a big rock in the shadows and Valjean blinks. “But we have over thirty degrees.”

“I’m fine,” Javert presses out and Valjean stops. His eyes wander over him, he has left his sunglasses on the rocky beach and he slowly comes back over.

“What’s wrong?” He asks gently and Javert grits his teeth. His gaze flickers from Valjean to the water and back and he sighs quietly.

“I can’t swim,” he mutters quietly, almost sure Valjean didn’t hear him but when he hears the gentle splash of the water, he knows the other man is walking back to the shore.

“You can’t swim?” Valjean’s voice is quiet, nothing mocking or judging in it and Javert blinks, looking up. The other man’s eyes are sincere and Javert swallows dryly.

“No,” he admits, defeated, incredibly embarrassed right now but Valjean still isn’t laughing. He’s still just looking at him, concern visible on his face and he gives him a gentle smile.

“That’s okay, I can teach you.”

“You- what?!” Javert stares at him, definitely a little panicked by now but Valjean stays incredibly calm.

“I can teach you,” he replies patiently, “I taught Cosette as well. You can trust me.”

Javert would’ve laughed right into his face at that statement if it wasn’t for the fact that they’re very close to the Mediterranean Sea and Valjean is a very strong man.

“You don’t have to-,” he starts but Valjean’s smile is still so kind and makes him trail off.

“The water isn’t deep here yet,” Valjean says gently, “I won’t hurt you. Promise.”

It’s quiet for a moment, the only sound coming from the waves swapping on the gravel beach and Javert takes a deep breath. The last thing he wants is to face his fear of deep waters (or open waters in general) but he has the feeling Valjean won’t give up.

And he somehow doubts Valjean plans on letting him drown - he had multiple opportunities to kill him before, drowning just seems impractical at this point.

Javert takes another deep breath before he gets up from his rock and he’s a bit taken aback when Valjean offers him his hand.

“You can trust me,” Valjean repeats quietly and Javert wants to sneer, wants to tell him that he would never be so stupid and trust a convict but not a single word leaves his mouth.

He takes Valjean’s big hand and feels ridiculously small next to the other man.

The water is cool around his feet, the stones under his feet poking into his bare soles and Valjean gently tugs on his hand. “Come on.”

He slowly leads him deeper into the water until they’re hip-deep and Javert takes another deep breath. He glances warily at the open sea ahead of them but Valjean squeezes his hand, clicking his tongue.

“No, focus on me,” he says firmly and Javert feels a slight blush spread over his cheeks when he glances back at Valjean.

He can spot some water droplets in Valjean’s dark hair but he also discovers a few silver streaks in it. More water runs down Valjean’s muscular chest, right over the tattoo and the hairs and there are crinkles around his eyes.

He looks older, Javert realises - time hasn’t stopped for either of them and he has to think of the young, angry man he met all these years ago just a few kilometres north of here.

Valjean gives him a gentle smile and when his thumb brushes over Javert’s hand Javert feels his stomach drop.

His gaze instinctively drops to Valjean’s lips, just for a split second but he feels his cheeks heat up in shame and Valjean clears his throat.

“Now, whatever happens, I got you,” he tells him firmly, “just trust me.”

And oddly enough, Javert thinks, he does.

~

Valjean can’t really believe Javert is actually trusting him that much and he makes sure to not give him a reason to regret it.

He patiently shows him the techniques, makes sure to always be by his side when they venture into slightly deeper water after half an hour and he tries not to think too much about how physical this entire thing is.

And how much he likes it.

Javert lets him put his hands on his hips, at one point Valjean easily carried him through the water and when something touches Javert’s legs and the other man jumps at Valjean in fear and lets out a scream-

They don’t mention it.

~

“So how come you didn't know how to swim?” Valjean asks him later when they’re back at the shore and have a makeshift dinner with the leftovers from their picnic basket.

Javert tenses.

They’ve climbed back up to the cliffs to watch the sunset, the air still filled with the sweet scent of the flowers around them and he plays with the green stem of the strawberry in his hands.

His thigh is pressed against Valjean’s but he doesn’t mind.

It’s nice. Grounding.

He stares at the ocean before looking back at the strawberry and takes a deep breath, shrugging.

“When I was a child,” he starts slowly, his voice a little hoarse and he clears his throat, “when I was a child I fell in the Seine and almost drowned.”

He still has nightmares about that day and he shivers instinctively.

“Luckily, someone saw and saved me but … those minutes in the water felt like eternity.” His mouth is dry and he takes a sip from his water, still avoiding looking at Valjean.

He’s hyper aware of the other man’s presence and when he does dare to glance over he finds nothing but compassion on the other man’s face.

“I’m so sorry, Javert,” Valjean says quietly and takes his hand, squeezing it, “that must have been so horrible.”

Valjean doesn’t really manage a reply. His throat is a bit tight, Valjean’s hand warm and he decides to do the only thing he can come up with: lean against the older man.

Valjean doesn’t seem to mind, just wrapping his free arm around his shoulders to pull him closer and Javert closes his eyes, something in him relaxing.

“You, uh, know I was born in prison,” he mumbles, “my mother was a fortune teller, my father another convicted criminal. I never really knew him.”

Valjean’s thumb is running soothing circles over the back of his hand and Javert opens his eyes again.

“It was … horrible to grow up. We were poor and after the Seine incident the other kids made fun of me.” Valjean’s arm tightens around his shoulders at his words and Javert takes a deep breath.

“I don’t have any friends,” he then states bluntly, pulling back a little to look at Valjean properly, “I spend so much time at work there … isn’t really time for that.”

That and the fact that no one ever really wanted to be his friend.

“It’s … lonely,” he adds, his cheeks burning with shame and embarrassment but he wants to share that part of himself. Wants to share things with Valjean and the other man squeezes his hand again.

“It is,” Valjean replies quietly, “I know how you feel.”

“Oh please!” Javert huffs but doesn’t pull his hand away. “You can’t tell me you don’t have friends; everyone adores you!”

“I didn’t for the longest time,” Valjean replies, looking like he’s deep in thoughts, “I’ve known many people and I still know many but … they’re not friends. Cosette is the only one who I … was ever close to. And even she doesn’t know everything.”

Javert stares at him and he’s genuinely surprised.

Something warm is spreading through his chest and now it’s his turn to quietly squeeze Valjean’s hand.

“I led quite a lonely life,” Valjean adds softly, “although it has gotten better in the past years. There is Margaret, an old English woman I met in a bookstore in Montmartre - we have tea together every Wednesday. And there is my yoga group consisting of ten women in their sixties.”

Valjean’s lips twitch and Javert stares at him incredulously. He wants to laugh but Valjean has sounded so soft and the older man gives him a warm smile.

“It does get better once you find your people,” he says quietly and Javert swallows hard. He doesn’t really know what to say to that, a part of him wanting to argue, to scream at Valjean that he tried, that he tried so hard to befriend his officers but that they never seemed to like him.

That making friends isn’t as easy when you’re not a big handsome man who can charm anyone.

That he has almost taken comfort in his loneliness even.

They stay silent after this, just watching the sunset but something between them has shifted.

They’ve spent decades in each other’s heads but for the first time in twenty years Javert feels genuinely close to Jean Valjean.

~

Valjean is pretty sure he hasn’t felt this much compassion for another man in a long time. He has seen his fair share of tragedies, of pain and abuse but Javert’s story still hits a nerve.

The silence between them is spreading but it’s not uncomfortable and Valjean stares at the sun slowly setting at the horizon.

Sure, there were times in his life during which he was incredibly lonely but especially the past ten years have been very good to him.

He still doesn’t think he deserves any of it but thanks to Cosette he has learnt to love. To become a better man and work on himself.

And sure, Marius and his friends aren’t his friends but … they care about him. Invite him to go see PSG play or a rugby match or go to the theatre or a concert (although he always declines the concert invitations).

They always want to include him in some way.

And of course there is Margaret and his yoga group.

He glances over at Javert and feels a curl of fierce, protective something slice through him he does not understand yet.

All he knows right now is that he’s very comfortable sitting here with Javert and watching the sunset - and that Javert desperately needs a friend in his life.

~

They eventually head back to the hotel when it’s dark and their walk is just as peaceful as the sunset.

Their hands keep brushing against each other during their quiet conversation and it makes Javert blush every time - a part of him just wants to take Valjean’s hand.

He does, eventually, after the fifth or sixth time and to his surprise Valjean interlaces their fingers immediately and gives his hand a squeeze.

Javert glances over at the other man but Valjean isn’t looking at him, currently busy gesticulating to a few trees and flowers growing roadside.

“All these trees, flowers and fruit trees on the island produce a kind of sweet perfume,” he explains to Javert while they slowly walk along the gravel path, their hands still intertwined, “hence why the island is also called the fragrant island or the scented island.”

Javert feels something in him soften at the excitement in Valjean’s voice and at his passion for flowers - he has learnt more today about the vegetation of French islands than he has in all his life.

“It’s a beautiful island,” he says softly and Valjean nods. “It’s gorgeous. I love all the lemon, mandarin and orange trees as well - it’s a shame they wouldn’t really grow back in Paris.”

They stop on one of the cliffs because the view is absolutely breathtaking and Javert swallows hard. They have a full moon, the light sparking like thousands of tiny crystals on the water surface, the ocean calm in front of them.

“Every day I thank God I get to see beauty like this,” Valjean says quietly and when Javert glances over at him the older man is looking at the ocean, a serene expression on his face.

Javert swallows dryly. Something he seemed to have missed all these years is how humble Valjean actually is and … he should be surprised how comfortable he is around Valjean by now. Somehow he isn’t though.

He’s holding the man’s hand, for Christ’s sake and he feels oddly … safe.

It scares him but Valjean- he is a good man. Javert is sure of that by now, not even the best actor could keep an act up for so long and he instinctively runs his thumb over Valjean’s hand.

Valjean turns his gaze and Javert blushes a little when their eyes meet - they’re suddenly very close. Closer even than they’ve been in the water.

Javert swallows dryly when he sees the gentle expression in Valjean’s eyes and he has to think of something he threw at Valjean all these years ago in Montreuil-sur-Mer when Valjean still had been Monsieur Madeleine and Javert had discovered his true identity.

“Once a thief forever a thief, what you want you’ll always steal!”

That’s not true, Javert realises. Valjean very much believes he doesn’t deserve any of the good things happening to him and he takes a deep breath.

They’re so close Javert can feel the older man’s breath on his face and it catapults him straight back into the present moment.

To their left, the ocean is still sparkling in the moonlight, the air is still warm and sweet and they’re still holding hands.

Something in Javert’s chest yells, yearns - yields.

He leans a bit closer by instinct and Valjean lets out a soft noise, tightening his grip around Javert’s hand.

“Can I kiss you?” Valjean whispers, his voice rough and Javert feels his world stop. He stares at the other man, takes in the crinkles around his eyes, his beard, his pink lips and his head is swimming.

“Yes,” Javert whispers, his voice shaking slightly and he’s sure he’s about to lose it when Valjean’s big hand carefully cups his cheek and he presses their lips together.

It is very different to the ‘kiss’ at their wedding.

This is more than Javert ever imagined - because who is he fooling, he had fantasised about this all these years ago when Valjean had first come to prison and Javert had been young and inexperienced.

When he had watched Valjean work out in the yard and pick fights with other prisoners.

He had thought about this when Valjean had been Monsieur Madeleine and Javert had gone home alone to his small apartment after yet another meeting with the handsome mayor.

When he had watched Valjean save a man’s life with his inhuman strength.

Hell, he probably, subconsciously, even thought about it the past few weeks and he presses himself more against Valjean, seeking that closeness.

~

It’s clumsy and a bit awkward, they both clearly have no idea what they’re doing yet it’s so different to the kiss at their wedding and Valjean pulls Javert closer.

He can’t believe this is actually happening and he decides not to overthink it - the heart wants what it wants and when they pull back eventually, they’re both panting a little.

Javert’s lips are pink and they stare at each other for a moment before Valjean offers him a hesitant smile.

He has never been so scared of rejection as of right now.

Javert swallows visibly before he nervously returns the smile and Valjean squeezes his hand - they haven’t let go once.

“We should head back,” Javert says softly and Valjean nods, still a bit at a loss for words.

~

His brain somehow can’t believe this actually happened.

They head back towards their little cottage, the moon still shining brightly, they’re holding hands and Javert is incredibly confused.

There is silence between but them it’s a comfortable one and when they reach the cottage, they share an almost shy smile.

They don’t talk much when they get ready for bed but once they’re under the cover, Valjean, again almost shyly, presses a short kiss against Javert’s cheek and Javert feels himself blush.

He, in turn, squeezes Valjean’s hand before turning around and he can’t stop the small smile spreading over his face.

~

When Valjean wakes up the next morning, Javert’s body is curled against his and Valjean can’t hold back a smile.

He’s still a bit confused but he decides to not question things - he will trust that God has a plan for him, however that plan might look like.

Javert’s long hair is sprawled over the pillows, his face turned toward Valjean’s chest and Valjean swallows hard at how peaceful Javert looks when he’s asleep. He hasn’t really slept in a bed with another person who wasn’t Cosette in like, ever and he carefully reaches out to brush a strand of hair behind Javert’s ear.

Javert doesn’t wake up and Valjean has to smile softly.

He has no idea what this kiss meant last night, what all the touches mean and he closes his eyes before sending a quiet prayer to God, asking for guidance.

There isn’t much else he could do - except talking to Javert but that thought scares him massively.

~

When Javert wakes up, his flat in Paris feels very far away. So does the entire police force and he blinks sleepily, not really wanting to move.

There is an arm slung around his waist and it should startle him, should trigger his fight or flight response but … nothing happens.

He knows that arm belongs to Valjean and the knowledge that the other man cuddled up to him during the night makes him feel warm instead of wanting to get as much distance as possible between them.

Javert runs a hand over his face and rubs his eyes. He has slept better than he has in years and he doesn’t dare to move, not wanting Valjean to take his arm away.

If the other man is still sleeping and did this unconsciously Javert doesn’t want to wake him.

He takes a deep breath before he closes his eyes again and whispers a prayer in his thoughts.

~

Valjean expected Javert to be distant once they’re awake, to maybe even yell at him but there is a gentleness between them when they’re getting ready for breakfast Valjean has never experienced before.

Javert almost seems insecure and while no one of them is ready to talk about last night there are hesitant smiles and a few, shy lingering touches when they pass each other.

Valjean doesn’t know how to deal with this.

He’s currently sitting on the bed, waiting for Javert to be ready in the bathroom and the door of their cottage is open, the black-and-white cat already waiting for them next to the pool and he can hear birds chirping in the distance.

The air is filled with the salty scent of the ocean and the scent of pine trees and flowers and Valjean runs a hand through his still damp hair.

He has never been in love before. Sure, he’s had crushes on other men but nothing ever came from that and after he passed 30 he didn’t really mind anymore.

Especially not after he had gotten Cosette.

There are more important things in life than romantic love.

But this also means that he has absolutely no experience with relationships, doesn’t know how they should proceed with this and he sighs softly.

Only time will tell, he muses and for now he should enjoy the peace and calm vibe of the morning.

If he learnt one thing in all those years it’s to enjoy good things when they happen because they very rarely last very long.

~

“People are usually shocked that I have a Police record.“ Valjean grins at the camera and Javert tenses next to him. Surely he wouldn’t-

Their thighs are touching but the camera doesn’t pick that up.

“But I love their greatest hits!” Valjean finishes and while Javert groans some of the crew members giggle and he can see the lips of their camera man twitch.

Javert is a little done with Valjean’s bad jokes but he has to admit he’s also oddly fond of them - and there is a grin tugging on his lips.

He obviously keeps his pokerface.

“Have you already decided where you want to live once you’re back home?”

Sofia is back with them again as well and Javert blinks.

No, they have not decided, they haven’t even talked about that yet and the silence between them is stretching until Valjean awkwardly scratches the back of his neck and shrugs.

“My place probably, more space and all and my cats are there,” he replies diplomatically and Javert is too hung up on the fact that he is supposed to move in with Jean Valjean to fully process that he has cats.

Suddenly, all the cat pictures in the WhatsApp group chat make sense.

~

He really should have talked to Javert about this before and Valjean really starts to dislike these interviews a little.

But-

“I’m sure you’re happy to hear you’re very popular among our viewers,” Sofia tells them, they’ve stopped filming by now and she sips on a can of Red Bull, “you’ve even accumulated your own fan base.”

Valjean frowns.

“So they’re loving the promo?” He asks, Javert looks a bit confused next to him as well but Sofia just laughs. “Not just the promo, Jean! Every single one of your episodes is breaking viewing records for M6!”

“I thought the episodes will only be broadcasted in a few weeks?!” Javert asks sharply, reminding Valjean oh so very much of that inspector who has hunted him for years but Sofia doesn’t seem impressed by him.

She finishes her Red Bull and shrugs. “There was a change of plans, the producers thought it’d be much more authentic to capture this live. You’re trending on Twitter every week!”

Valjean is very close to panicking. Not just that the entire country heard him talk about Cosette, about Marius-

The whole country saw him kiss Javert. Their ‘private’ moments- they had completely forgotten about the cameras.

And sure, he should’ve known but there had always been a voice inside his head telling him that maybe he could make sure after filming that they’d only use stuff he approves of. That his lawyers could maybe make sure this doesn’t turn into a total disaster.

He can just hope that at least Marius was too busy with his start-up to watch the show.

~

All of France seems to be invested in their love story, apparently even Pierre Gasly, that Formula One driver, has tweeted about them during an episode. Not that Javert watches F1 or is interested in it - he personally thinks one must be quite stupid to drive in circles and at the same time put your life at risk like that.

But everyone in the whole country seems to be watching the show and he looks up when something brushes against his leg. It’s the cat, she’s purring softly before she sits down right next to his leg and Valjean gives him a smile.

It looks forced.

“They’d have never been able to do a show like that twenty years ago,” he mutters while he unscrews the lid of his water bottle, “unthinkable.”

“It’s such a weird concept anyway,” Javert agrees and Valjean hums in agreement, taking a sip of his water.

They share a smile and Valjean sighs. “At least it’s not that other show, what’s it called, Cosette sometimes watches it … Beds on the Beach?”

“I’ve never heard of that,” Javert admits, “but I also don’t really watch TV apart from the news. And some occasional documentaries.”

Valjean nods. “Yeah me too but I think it’s not called Beds on the Beach … Sex on the Beach? Non that’s the cocktail …”

“Do you two mean Ex on the Beach?” One of the production assistants throws in while he walks past and Valjean’s eyes light up. “Oui, Ex on the Beach! That and Love Island.”

Javert has no idea what he’s talking about given he hasn’t watched any of the shows but it helps that Valjean apparently also doesn’t think very highly of reality dating shows.

Which is very ironic given they’re kind of participating in one right now.

They complain a bit more about reality TV before Sofia comes back to inform them that they’re having a day trip to Île de Bendor today.

Javert hasn’t been there yet but he knows that Île de Bendor features a small community of artists and the boat trip is, thankfully, rather short.

When they arrive he spots some pastell-coloured houses, art galleries, two museums, a few boutiques and - most notably - a sculpture garden by the sea.

He also learns from Sofia that apparently the community features multiple glass blowers and sells handmade jewellery, ceramics and Provençal woven baskets.

Javert has no need for any of these things but Valjean seems to have a different opinion.

“I could get you one of those,” he points out, lifting a beautiful hand-blown glass vase and Javert raises an eyebrow. “And what would I do with that?”

He’s tense today - he’s hyper-aware of the cameras following them around again, Sofia’s knowing grin haunting him and he feels so exposed - especially now that he knows all of this is live.

“To put flowers in.”

And what makes it even more infuriating is that Valjean seems to be completely unbothered by all of this.

He gives Javert a grin but puts the vase back down and strolls over to the next stall, Javert following him grumpily.

“Why cut flowers after you’ve wasted so much energy growing them?” He mutters but Valjean ignores him. Instead, he picks up a fine, long silver necklace and presents it to Javert. “What about this?”

Javert feels his cheeks heat up.


All of France is currently watching him on television



The whole country saw him this vulnerable, heard him talk openly about his past



Saw him kiss a convict


He doesn’t give Valjean an answer and the other man turns back to the stall with a slight frown on his face.

They head to the sculpture garden after their little shopping tour (although they didn’t really do much shopping) and sit down on a stone bench next to a massive statue of Poseidon.

“Could you imagine living here?” Valjean asks him after examining the flowers around them and Javert looks up, pulled out of his thoughts. “Huh?”

“Live here. Have a little house on the coast.” Valjean stares at the ocean, their thighs are touching and Javert is aware of the two cameras pointed at them.

“I’m sure it would get boring real quick,” Javert mutters and puts a bit of distance between them.

 

It hurts him more than he thought.~

Of course Valjean has noticed something is off with Javert.

He just has no idea what exactly the other man is regretting and it makes his stomach feel heavy.

~

When they arrive back on Porquerolles later that evening it’s raining and the film crew tells them they’ll call it a day. Javert is glad about it because he’s almost soaked when they reach their cottage and he’s had enough of cameras for the day.

Their cat isn’t around, probably seeking shelter somewhere from the rain and wind and Javert takes a deep breath once the door of their cottage closes behind them.

It’s just him and Valjean now and he takes a quick shower. Dinner tonight is served inside their cottage, some chicken with lemon rice and Javert stares at himself in the bathroom mirrors.

Normally quite pale he did manage to catch a light tan the past few days and he runs a hand through his damp hair. Temperature have dropped quite a bit and he slips into a pair of sweatpants before opening the door to the cottage.

Mentally he’s still at their kiss yesterday; at the night; the gentleness this morning.

And that all of France saw him so vulnerable and open.

His stomach flips and he has to swallow when he sees Valjean who is already sitting at the dinner table, currently pouring them some wine. It’s the first time they’re alone since this morning and Javert slowly closes the door behind him.

“Dry again?” Valjean asks him amused and Javert manages a short nod before sitting down across from him. He’s nervous all of a sudden and Valjean’s calmness doesn’t help at all.

Why isn’t he more bothered by all of … this?

Instead of worrying about all of France watching their every step, of potentially finding out Valjean is a criminal, of Thénardier potentially trying to ruin Valjean’s life again, Valjean is currently once more talking about the flowers on the island.

His eyes are shining with excitement, he’s clearly passionate about them and something inside of Javert snaps.

“What does a convict know about flowers anyway?!” He growls, a bitter taste in his throat and he knows the second he looks at Valjean that he went too far.

Valjean has tensed visibly and for the first time since they’re on that island Javert spots actual anger flash over the older man’s face.

Anger with a bit of hurt.

“In your eyes I’ll always be 24601 and nothing more, isn’t that right, Javert?!” He snaps and gets up from the table. “No matter what I’ll do, I’ll always be the convict in your eyes. Always just a number.”

There is so much genuine disappointment and hurt in his voice that it feels like a punch in the gut and for a second Javert can’t breathe. His chest is tight and his heart is beating in his throat and he knows he should apologise, should say something-

“Because in your eyes, Javert,” and the disappointment dripping from Valjean’s words makes Javert’s stomach sink, “no one can ever change. A convict will stay a convict his entire life. Once a criminal, always a criminal, a bad person, an outcast from society who deserves nothing good in his life.”

His voice is shaking with anger but there is an underlying hurt that makes a lump form in Javert’s throat and Valjean grits his teeth.

“I need some space,” he mutters before slipping into a pair of shoes and storms out of the cabin.

“Valjean-,” Javert starts but then the door falls shut behind him and Javert stares after him in shock.

He blinks while his head is swimming with thoughts. Valjean’s words have stirred something in him and he takes a shaky breath.

Obviously he doesn’t just see Valjean as 24601 anymore and he does see the man he has become. Valjean isn’t- he’s not- not- not a convict anymore, not a criminal and Javert feels his throat tighten.

He always thought he’s the only man in the world who knows Jean Valjean.

He starts to realises that’s true - although differently than he always thought. He knows all of Valjean’s sides, his criminal past, yes, the fact he was mayor under a fake name of a whole village, yes but also the man he is now.

The man who, although he could easily strangle him with his big hands, is so gentle when tending to flowers or animals.

Who loves Cosette and would do anything for his daughter - even participate in an absolutely ridiculous TV show for her.

A man who treats everyone around him with kindness, who is so incredibly humble for the fact that he’s allegedly a millionaire and who never seemed to resent Javert for what he did to him in the past.

Valjean has changed, Javert realises with a numb feeling in his chest and he runs a hand over his face. He feels hollow while he is still staring at the door - of course a person can be so much more than one thing.

Valjean can be a thief in the past and still a really good human being now and circumstances in a person’s life help someone change - it’s the most obvious thing in the world yet Javert feels like he has been blind for most of his life.

Of course the world isn’t just black and white.

Valjean has not changed in the past week on that island - he has always been that man (more or less). When he was mayor, he didn’t trick the people into thinking he was a good person - he was.

Well, as good as you can be when you’re mayor under a fake name.

Javert draws in another shaky breath and a cold feeling spreads through his chest.

There is a lot of Madeleine in Valjean and 24601 and Javert feels so goddamn stupid.

The Javert from twenty years ago wouldn’t have been able to see that - he’d have only been able to see the world in black and white. It helped when he was a prison guard and it helped during his time as inspector, it made work easier but if he’s being honest, Javert thinks bitterly, the Javert from twenty years ago also wouldn’t have had the capacity to understand or emphasise with a human being like that.

And now he ruined everything with one stupid comment.

That thought snaps him out of his thoughts and Javert jumps up, his chair falling on the floor behind him. He needs to find Valjean, needs to explain, apologise-

He slips into a pair of shoes before stumbling out of the cottage and he’s drenched almost immediately. It’s still pouring and he lets out an annoyed noise but he needs to find Valjean.

“VALJEAN?!” He shouts while jogging towards the road and his voice gets almost drowned out by the rain. “VALJEAN WHERE ARE YOU?!”

This feels very pointless and stupid but the thought of sitting alone in their cottage, wallowing in guilt and self-pity feels even worse so he keeps moving through the rain. He’s in the small forest by now and very done.

And very drenched.

“VALJEAN!” He also doesn’t miss the desperation seeping into his voice and he takes a deep breath. Valjean could have slipped, hurt himself or worse, fallen into the ocean-

“VALJEAN, YOU FOOL, FOR GOD’S SAKE-“ His voice breaks off, his lungs burning by now and he’s shivering - the wind has picked up.

“What do you WANT, Javert?!” Javert almost cries with relief when he hears the familiar voice to his left and he stumbles further through the forest, finding Valjean standing next to a fallen tree.

He’s just as drenched as Javert, his hair sticking to his head and he looks mostly tired.

“You!” He has to shout for Valjean to hear him over the noise of the rain and Valjean snorts. “That’s nothing new.”

“No, it’s different this time.” Javert wipes some rain from his face and stares at the other man almost desperately. “I don’t want to arrest you, Valjean. I don’t. I just want you.”

There are no cameras around, it’s dark, it’s raining, he’s soaked to his underwear and he just told Jean Valjean that he is in love with him.

His chest is rising and falling quickly and he almost doesn’t dare to look at Valjean. If all of this was just an act by the other man, something to get through the show without too much drama so be it but then Javert at least has clarity.

“I want you,” he repeats weakly because he feels like he has to say something and he takes another step forward, “and I’m sorry for what I’ve said, I don’t see you as-“

Valjean steps forward and kisses him. He cups Javert’s face between his big hands, they’re both absolutely soaked and he kisses him, desperately, deeply and Javert melts under his touch.

Something in him shifts, like a puzzle piece that falls into place and he clings to Valjean, praying that the other man will never let him go again.

“I’m sorry,” Javert whispers breathlessly when they pull back eventually, Valjean resting their foreheads together, his hands still cupping Javert’s cheeks and Valjean gives him a gentle smile.

“I know.”

I am so sorry for the delay, AO3 was acting up and work was super stressful xx

I apologise for any spelling mistakes, I had to disable Grammarly or otherwise AO3 would have taken ages - epilogue coming asap! :')

And thank you so much for your sweet feedback to the first chapter x


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Do we really need this much decoration, Valjean?” Javert sceptically eyes the four big boxes he just carried up from the basement and picks up a red bauble. “It feels a bit … much.”

“It’s a big tree.” Valjean steps out of the kitchen, wearing that ridiculous self-knitted Christmas jumper he made two weeks ago and he grins. “Believe me, you’ll need all of this.”

Javert - who wears a similar self-knitted jumper - sighs but there is a smile tugging on his lips. “And here I thought decorating the whole house including the outside and the garden is enough.”

Valjean just laughs, a rich sound that makes Javert feel warm and he smiles as well. The scent of the Christmas cookies Valjean is currently baking hangs in the air, Christmas songs are playing quietly in the background and there is a fire burning in the chimney.

It’s very cold in Paris in December.

Javert, having taken almost all of December off, is wearing a big pair of self-knitted socks as well and he has spent most of the past two days decorating the house to get them all into the Christmas spirit.

It’s a little ironic, he thinks while tugging on the fine, silver necklace around his neck, that he has always hated Christmas but now he’s oddly excited about it.

Leblanc, the black and white cat they had met and adopted during their stay on Porquerolles, is curled up on the grey sofa on a yellow blanket, sleeping peacefully (thankfully, she gets along very well with Valjean’s other three cats) and Javert watches Valjean head over to the massive tree standing in front of the window leading to the street.

“It’s a bit crooked, don’t you think?” He asks and Javert grins. “A little.”

Valjean easily adjusts the tree slightly with his strength and glances over his shoulder to look at Javert. “Better?”

Javert nods and carries one of the boxes containing the fairy lights closer to the tree, placing it on the cosy armchair. “Better.”

It’s been half a year since their kiss in the rain and Valjean has called his lawyers immediately the next morning to somehow get them out of the show. After a lot of negotiations and money, M6 agreed to stop filming and somehow they also managed to get out of a reunion and ‘Catch-Up With the Couples’ episode.

“I’m glad we declined when M6 approached us for a holiday feature,” Javert mumbles and leans against Valjean for a second. Valjean smiles, wrapping his arms around him so they’re hugging properly and Javert breathes in his familiar scent.

Valjean smells like cookie dough, mixed with laundry detergent and his aftershave and it makes him all warm and fuzzy.

“Me too,” Valjean mumbles, “but I think we solved the entire show thing quite nicely.”

Javert nods - M6 eventually decided to go with the explanation that due to a cold spreading around the film crew, they had to stop filming and focus more on the other storylines.

Fans were disappointed but from what Javert has gathered from Cosette they were happy they seem to have gotten their Happy End.

They’re not that wrong, he muses and he reaches for some more baubles and ornaments.

“Besides,” Valjean adds cheerfully and his eyes are sparkling amused, “we are too busy for TV anyway. You have your weekly book club meetings, my yoga class, tea with Margarete, dinners and TV evenings with Cosette and Marius, weekend trips to the countryside … I wouldn’t know where to fit in a film crew.”

“And work,” Javert adds dryly but there is a grin tugging on his lip and he hangs two red baubles into the tree, “don’t forget work.”

“Ah, we’re almost retired anyway.” Valjean waves dismissively and Javert has to laugh. “Fair enough, old man. Do you still want me to head to the shop later?”

He reaches for his keys and he smiles when he spots the silver acorn Valjean had gifted him at their wedding - it is now a constant part of his key chain and Valjean hasn’t stopped wearing the silver bracelet Javert got him.

They’ve also gotten new wedding rings and Valjean nods before he falls on the sofa with a happy sigh.

“Just a few things - I thought about making eggnog as well,” he starts and Javert raises an eyebrow, hanging a little snowman ornament on one of the branches.

“Given Marius is coming tonight as well we will need it,” he replies dryly and Valjean laughs, his eyes crinkling amused.

“Don’t be so hard on the kid,” he replies, a fond look in his eyes. “He didn’t always have it easy either and he’s a good husband to Cosette.”

Javert grumbles something, aware Valjean is right and he reaches for another bauble. “He’s still … how did Eponine call him the other day? A himbo.”

A word he hadn’t really heard before until Eponine brought it up and Valjean grins. “Maybe but as I said, it could be worse.”

It has started to snow outside their windows and Javert nods. He quit his job at the police force the day after they came back from the Côte d'Azur and he’s now working as a private detective in a detective agency.

He spends most of his time observing the husbands of rich wives to try and find out if their men are cheating - while he finds it a bit tedious most of the time, it pays well and it’s a welcome change to his old job.

Besides, Valjean loves hearing his stories over dinner and it can be quite amusing from time to time.

“Any wishes for what I should make tonight?” Valjean asks him, getting back up from the sofa (not without petting Leblanc) but Javert shakes his head. “I’m good, whatever you prefer.”

Valjean gives him another one of those smiles that momentarily make Javert forget how to breathe and he pulls him into a soft kiss.

“Merry Christmas, Javert,” he whispers and Javert instinctively smiles. He pulls the other man closer, resting his forehead against Valjean’s and gently runs his hand through the other man’s hair.

“Merry Christmas,” Javert mumbles before he gently kisses him as well.

For the first time in his life, he doesn’t feel like he’s chasing after something but like he has arrived.

He’s home.

And we already reached the end! :')

Really hope you enjoyed it 💛💛