Title: Tonight is Going to be the Loneliest
Work ID: 45924958
Author: NinthTrash
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Joly/Bossuet Laigle/Musichetta, Javert/Jean Valjean, Combeferre/Courfeyrac (Les Misérables), Bahorel/Feuilly (Les Misérables)
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Hospital, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Medical Professionals, Office Party, Artist Grantaire (Les Misérables), Everyone Is Gay, Angst and Drama, Secret Crush, Songfic, Harold They're Lesbians Meme, Mutual Pining, Hurt/Comfort, Marius is an Ally, HIV/AIDS, LGBTQ Themes, Enjolras is Bad at Feelings (Les Misérables), Eventual Smut, these 'e' accents will be the death of me, Post-it Notes, Panic Attacks, Gay Sex, writing a winter holiday themed fanfic in the middle of summer
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 10/10

One man's trash is another man's invitation to curiosity.Grantaire is just trying to do his job and Enjolras makes it awkward.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Grantaire is a man of little faith, this he knew.

For what is faith but blindness? Disillusioned wishes of those who have not faced true pain? Groping in the dark for something that you know isn't really there?

He knows that if he is to cross the threshold of any sanctified space he'd probably burst into hellfire and become nothing more than a miserable, gay pile of ash. Lucky for Grantaire, though; the non-denominational chapel is located on the far opposite end of St. Denis Hospital, and the mild concern over the hazard to his lonely soul is tampered down by the promise of decent pay and busy hands.

 

Nights are the hardest, so when presented the opportunity to take a nightshift post which was enthusiastically encouraged by his therapist, he found himself employed again.

He needs this, Grantaire reminds himself each time he finds himself lacking the nerve to leave the warmth of his sedan- hands locked on the top of his steering wheel- watching the endless pairs of blue and grey scrubs pass by, ending their day while his began again.

There has to be something meaningful in that.

To have meaning means to have pain, and pain is art, and months ago Grantaire had displayed a raw and dying heart to the world at an exhibit -queer artists in their multitudes and their experiences and their /pain/. That was months ago, but he still bears the callouses between his fingers where he has since traded his brushes for brooms.

He had nearly backed out of presenting at the art event- his grief wanting to keep his work tucked deep inside his person, never allowing it to be shared or inviting critique- but Éponine, how he adored his best friend, had hyped him up and stayed by his side during the entire event. With aching feet and tight-lipped smiles, he shook hands with art patrons and museum curators, the public, all who came to witness his art. Captured in oils and brushstrokes, pinning his story within a frame.

That was months ago, and now his hands have found familiarity in the routine of sweeping checkered linoleum, wiping crumbs from microwave plates, and emptying trash bins.

He can't even compare his janitorial job to art- he doesn't need to. It is the absence of art that is like a soothing balm lathered over his exhausted brain.

The familiar, exhausting itch to beautify and capture is eased by corporate-issued memos to 'Wash Your Hands' taped against the unimaginative wall shade of cotton-ball cream. Bulk-ordered black office supply chairs are pressed into individual spaces, marking each as a border between the clinical and the personal.

 

Looks could be deceiving.

Cosette, Éponine's very nice girlfriend whom Grantaire is still not sure if he trusted because she is /too damn nice/, had once told him that about himself.

'Once you get past the crunchy, musty outer layer, you're sweet and really cool on the inside,' she had told him.

He doesn't know what the hell she means. He can only deal with his own spicy inner monologuing, let alone to try to compare himself to a hospital clinic or something other than 'crunchy and musty'.

 

But what makes the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic special is in its very roots- in its foundation built with the blood, sweat, and tears of its creators- like some radiant beacon of medical hope for humanity.

Well, the humanity of the local city, at least.

Even faithless Grantaire is worn-down by the practice's steadfast devotion to providing quality and affordable healthcare to the LGBTQA+ community- a nonprofit office founded and funded by a renegade group of young people who had withstood discrimination at every turn to flourish in their public service. 

From his point of view, he has the honors of witnessing Éponine go from struggling each day through nursing school, accepting her bisexuality, and bleeding out her rage at protests in front of the government buildings. To have multiple letters proudly displayed after her name on her badge and working with her girlfriend at a place that really made a difference was incredible.

She is thriving and he is still alive- and here she has invited him in.

 

Grantaire loves it.

 

He has been employed by the clinic for the past five months and has fallen into a routine: Bathrooms (gross), Staff Breakroom (smelly), Lobby (um...full of chairs?), Front Desk (colorful), Clinician Office (chaotic), Lab (expensive), Corporate Office (where Grantaire's hopes and dreams go to die).

He even has a playlist on his music streaming app labeled 'SDC Jam Sesh' that he shuffles through each night- Éponine had requested to see it but Grantaire wasn't quite ready for her opinion of him (dark, brooding, a total hunk of course) to be tainted by his love for K-Pop, obscure opera, and Evanescence. 

 

Bathrooms are always first since Grantaire finds no real joy in replacing urinal cakes or finding questionable goop in the sink. Luckily for the artist formerly known as Grantaire, he is able to finish this job by the time his third song comes to an end. Pushing his supply cart, he stomps to the beat of his next song selection- a bit of whiplash as Amy Lee's vocals explodes in his ears- but lovely all the same.

When he knows for certain that no one is watching, he holds the glass-cleaner bottle to his mouth and gives an applause worthy lip-sync to dueling parts in 'Wake Me Up Inside' to his reflection in the mirror.

 

Cleaning the staff breakroom goes about as smoothly as the bathrooms, with the biggest concern being the stink of burnt popcorn that has permeated every inch of the space. Grantaire, dual wielding a rag and an environmentally friendly cleanser, clears any remaining stains from countertops, double-checks that the soap dispenser and paper towel holder are stocked, and grins at his progress made so far.

At this rate he'll have time to kill; his fingers have been itching to doodle something obscene for Éponine to find tomorrow morning at her desk.

Grantaire takes his time after tossing the used cloth rags into the laundry hamper attached to his cart and methodically removes the blue latex-free gloves that stick to his fingers. They leave an uncomfortably dry film over his hands which he tries, while failing, to wipe off against the front of his t-shirt. Hands that flex once before resigning to their ill-begotten fate, and his knuckles pop which earns him a relieved sigh.

Inside his earbuds some painfully romantic guitar riff plays, an adagio he forgets the name of and can't be bothered to look at his phone screen for, and Grantaire opens a familiar cupboard to pull out the familiar red and green mug that has haunted his dreams ever since he began this secret nightly ritual.

 

Red and green.

What kind of artist says 'red and green'?

Scarlet like the first squeeze of blood from a papercut, and green.

Red, the color of passion and winter jackets on the coat rack by the front office door. 

Red, the color on the palette that he seemed to use the most towards the end. The palette he hasn't been able to yet wash clean, sitting on the end table in his studio.

 

Grantaire traces the seam where the duetting colors meet down the ceramic's middle and frowns. Whatever, it is stupid, and he is stupid, but something about this daily routine gave the faithless man just a little spark of something that stings a bit too much like happiness and he has paid for too much therapy to allow his inner monologue to continue to bully him into stopping.

The gallon-bucket of coffee had been brewed hours ago and is probably past the point of redemption, but that doesn't stop Grantaire from emptying the final dregs into the garish mug he always selects for this purpose.

Into the freshly cleaned microwave it goes, spinning in a mesmerizing dance of complimentary colors, until Grantaire opens the door with :01 seconds to spare.

You take what little victories you can, right?

The coffee is scalding hot, near boiling. After confirming that it is at the proper temperature by poking the side of the mug, cursing, and soothing his now burned finger in his mouth, the silly man closes the microwave's door to keep the contents safe and warm and departs the breakroom to continue with his work back out in the lobby and front desk.

 

Trash time.

 

Is it kind of pathetic that he looks forward to trash time? Grantaire thinks so, but that doesn't stop him from grinning a bit and shuffling his weight from one foot to the next in time with his music. Trash time means that he can spy into the lives of the people who made this office so special.

It is indulgent and he will take this indulgence to the grave.

How many patients come to this desk, perhaps accepting help for the first time, or following up with the confidence of knowing that they were talking with someone who cared and understood? It must take a very special kind of person to want to work the front desk in a doctor's office, and the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic registration team is no exception.

Name plates read 'Cosette' and 'Jehan' are side by side, framed with stickers of hearts and puppies, and flowers and kitties, respectively. Grantaire doesn't even cringe at his dopey smile when he spies the little arrangement of candies laid out on the counter next to the sign-in clipboard that was just for him.

Most of the treats are tucked away safely into his jean pocket, but he pops a sour lemon-drop into his mouth for an instant zap of flavor before sucking it into his cheek for safe-keeping.

The regular candy jar for patients sits stocked next to Cosette's side, with a hand-written sign inviting anyone to help themselves.

Rainbow painted mason jars hold pens with plastic flowers at the ends- sunflowers and daisies. Stickers proudly displaying every pride flag imaginable stick to the counter's surface- a fierce and undeniable collaboration of identity at the very front.

A laminated list of items patients need to present at time of check-in is taped next to a divider displaying multiple pamphlets for free wellness-programs offered by the clinic: counseling for eating disorders, music therapy, self-defense classes, alcoholism recovery, group mental health therapy.

Grantaire always checks these out, as if he would actually go to one.

Maybe one day he'd be someone who went to wellness programs.

For now, therapy is enough.

 

Cosette's trash bin is, as he suspects, mostly full of crinkled candy wrappers and the remnants of misprinted appointment reminder cards.

On her desk he glimpses a framed picture of her and a familiar face- Éponine- both women standing together, entwined. Éponine stands with Cosette tucked behind her, their hair blowing in a twist of blonde and black and Cosette's arms tight around the other's waist, faces tilted towards one another like a flower to the sun.

Grantaire's heart tightens fondly in his chest at the image, and he makes himself promise that he would invite the women over to his apartment for dinner sometime soon...it has been too long since he has felt up for entertaining.

 

Jehan's bin always paints a very clear picture of what kind of day they had to deal with. Today must have been a bad hair-day, Grantaire notes, as he lifts the remnants of countless broken hair ties and even a mangled tortoise shell clip with long strands of auburn hair still attached. Used tea bags of increasing caffeine content mingle with crumpled printed paper half-scribbled over with sparkled gel-pens.

A glossy picture of formally dressed musicians, austere in regalia but little else, is pinned to the wall next to a blank computer screen: an orchestra.

In the front and center stands a proud Jehan clutching their beloved flute to their chest.

Jehan is a romantic and a sweetheart, and patient registration is yet another outlet for self-expression and meeting a kaleidoscope of human beings and connecting with them.

Grantaire would rather die than have to talk to strangers all day every day.

Both bins are empty now, and after a final glance over the pristine lobby and front desk, Grantaire and his cart push deeper into the bowels of the clinic.

 

The back office comes next- really just a center hub for the esteemed Dr. Joly, NP Éponine, and MA Feuilly. Cupboards labeled 'Stethoscopes', 'Billing & Coding', 'NOT for Courfeyrac', and 'for Courfeyrac' crown the open desk spaces beneath wherein sit several desktops and charging tablets, updated vaccine protocols, and the personal belongings from three very different employees.

Closest to the entrance sits the uncluttered and pristinely clean desk of Dr. Joly himself.

Grantaire doesn't even bother to check his desk- the trash had already been emptied, keyboard wiped, and paperwork filed into neat binders.

The only proof that the good doctor occupies this space is the three-fold picture frame nestled next to a magnifying mirror he keeps close for personal-examinations (you can never be too careful with oral candidiasis this time of year).

The left side of the frame displays the image of a stunning woman- hair pink as cotton candy and up in a tight bun, her demeanor elegant and confident with a demure smile- posed- but clearly natural.

The partner frame on the right holds a picture of a man- dark skin smooth and bald head shining, a teasing grin and solid tone to his shoulders bared under a tank top- his physique one that Grantaire can picture in sculpted in marble.

The middle frame houses a scene that Grantaire loves to study when he finds the time to do so.

Dr. Joly is an interesting character from what Éponine has divulged in after-work rants- neurotic and wildly intelligent, quiet and so witty it was easy to miss when he joked, perfectly composed and in the most perfectly composed polyamorous relationship anyone has ever experienced.

Three heads pressed together, Musichietta with her red lips curled up as she leans into Dr. Joly in the center- a fresh stamp of lipstick on both lover's cheeks. Dr. Joly's eyes are closed, fawn-brown hair slightly mused from two sets of hands, and his lips parted in a laugh. Bossuet is taking the picture- one arm comfortably resting across the other sets of shoulders while the other is raised to hold the camera to capture the sparkle in his teasing gaze. 

Perhaps Grantaire should take up photography?

That would give him an excuse to capture love in the moment. His art, at the end, only seemed to dig into despair and the end of all things.

Now is not the time to look much deeper into that, sheesh...he clears through the contents of the middle desk- this one clearly belonging to the clinic's medical assistant Feuilly.

If it isn't for the multiple tropical destination themed signs hanging from wooden pegs or plastic command-strip hooks that spell 'Feuilly' in tiny little seashells, it is the screen saver on the desktop of the computer that dissolves every five seconds into a new picture of the young man posing in front of a palm tree or a beach, or in the middle of some winding European street.

According to Éponine, it is rumored that Feuilly has accumulated so much PTO in the years he has worked for the hospital, that he can technically take off an entire year before running out. 

Wavering pixels on the desktop make Grantaire nostalgic for the golden days of computer yore, when he could sit in front of screen saver and disassociate for hours watching rainbow tubes intersect and twine and graph.

But, unlike the formerly displayed pictures from solo trips, this next one shows Feuilly, tan and bare-chested, standing within the grasp of another tanner, bare barrel-chested man...a man that Grantaire had gotten acquainted with as one of the hospital's security staff, Bahorel. A nice, boisterous man who Grantaire likes to arm-wrestle with.

Interesting...

Very interesting.

The screen fades black before a blurry Minion meme that would be found on someone's mother's social media reads "My Full Time Job is at the Beach".

His thick eyebrows rise up and he sucks in a breath through his teeth, and Grantaire makes a mental note to follow up with this newest relationship discovery with Éponine once he finishes his shift. 

Speaking of Éponine...

the peanut butter to his jelly.

The fight to his flight.

APRN Éponine Thénadier is a force upon this earth unlike any he has ever known, and she always manages to be the messiest motherfucker in the entire office.

Empty bags of potato chips left crumbs freckled along the incorrectly faxed cover sheets and prescription drug cost-assistance cards. There must have been an infuriating situation today- perhaps a frustrating problem with insurance or a difficult patient- a few paper clips have been unfolded and stabbed into her mouse pad.

Grantaire will definitely hear about what happened later.

Éponine- did Grantaire mention that he has the best friend in the world?

Because he does, and he is reminded of that every time he brushes away crumbs, arranges the abused paper clips into a smiley face shape, and empties her trash can before looking up to admire her desk's mementos.

There are a few old and faded polaroid pictures from past holidays spent with her brother and sister- 'Uncle R', his favorite title- Gavroche and Azelma, near feral but hilarious.

Another picture showcases his fiery friend accompanied by a hauntingly familiar face. Messy dark curls nearly bounce out of frame and nearly hide the sleep-bruised under eyes as his own face smirks back at him.

This was taken after Grantaire had officially been one month sober, and an absolute ass to be around. 

It wasn't his proudest moment, but he is alive now.

That is what matters, and that is what Éponine helped push him towards day by agonizing day. Even when she had to work part-time to support herself through classes, manage her siblings and make sure they could wear clothes without holes and have enough food for lunches, she found strength to share with Grantaire until he could find his own. 

Despite the chaos of her desk, she always kept one space clear from debris.

A few years ago, after a long night of drinking shitty beer until his head floated and their conversation had long grown quiet- he watched as Cosette leaned her head against Éponine's shoulder and fell asleep curled against her side on the couch. Éponine, not nearly as drunk as him, with eyes shining like coals over to where Grantaire was slouched in a bean bag and watching the intimate moment through red-rimmed, unfocused eyes.

'I think I love her', she had whispered.  

Grantaire had spent weeks drawing the piece that now hung proudly above the nurses' workstation- simple pencil work with some charcoal detailing, a scene of both women from that night.

His heart burned now as the same emotion that had flooded him that night crept back: adoration, agony, fear, and the sweetest joy.

Maybe that was what love was- Grantaire settles his cleaning supplies back into the cart as the bass-thumping beat from a KPOP song regulates his heartbeat and urges him onwards in his work.

 

The next room intimidates Grantaire as much as any non-occupied room possibly could.

The Lab is the sacred space in which he is not allowed to touch anything that isn't inside of the trash bin- most of the equipment cost more than he did dead or alive, and he is so careful as he tiptoes past countertops housing foreign machinery, plastic tubing, and several desktop computers.

This is Combeferre's medical domain and the austere man nearly surpasses Dr. Joly's affinity for cleanliness.

Grantaire had first met him when he was invited out with Éponine to the local gay club, and while the two men have never had a proper one-on-one conversation, he could gather plenty about how the other's serious exterior didn't quite match his private self.

Something, something, 'can't judge a book by its cover', 'looks can be deceiving'- Cosette yet again coming through with being right.

Inside the plastic bag of the bin lay the crumpled remains of several failed paper airplanes amongst the graveyard of moist towelettes and used gloves. Before exiting the small windowless room for the evening, Grantaire indulges in reading the note on a scrap of sticky-note paper stuck crooked in the middle of a computer screen.

In rolling, looped cursive reads 'What Blood Type Does an Optimist Have?' and below it, underneath a winking smiley face, 'A... B positive'. 

Grantaire groans and heaves the cart through the door, feeling physically, mentally, and spiritually pained.

If the Minion meme from earlier doesn't kill him, it is the blood pun that finishes him.

 

His music playlist seems to only laugh at his pun-induced agony as he stops by the breakroom to recover the distressing coffee mug from the microwave.

It seems to be a more acceptable drinking temperature now at least. Careful not to spill, Grantaire balances the drink in one hand while he carefully guides the cart to the back of the clinic.

In his earbuds plays the beginning guitar riffs of a newer song on his playlist that had immediately caught his attention the first time he heard it on the radio.

 


'you'll be the saddest part of me'


 

Before he manages to spill any of the caffeinated beverage over his knuckles and burn himself into uselessness, Grantaire lightly set the coffee onto the mahogany desk which sat in the center of the office.

He places the mug in the same spot that he always has for the past four months- on the side of the desk that seems lived-in, covered with documents showcasing the letterhead 'St. Denis Hospital- Specialty Diagnostics Clinic' with corporate jargon and itemized lists filling the space below.

Several different newspapers lay strewn about, opened to various pages, one with the bolded headline 'A Real Look into the Politics of Local Hospitals'. A laptop sat amongst the papers, and because he never once claimed to not be nosy, Grantaire could spy a live-stream news broadcast on one side, muted and showing protests from some rally in the state.

The thin-cushioned black chair sits pushed out slightly, indicating that someone has recently left the room. Perhaps he shouldn't have brought the coffee...

 


'a part of me that will never be mine'


 

Before he can do something stupid like try and chug the coffee down and pretend like he never brought it with, Grantaire busies himself with checking over the remnants of the trash bin tucked behind the second chair which sat unused to the side.

Courfeyrac is rarely seen in his own office- nothing would indicate that the clinic's Human Resources representative ever has been in there except for the large whiteboard that proudly displays the heart and blood of the whole system: Courf's Board.

No, really, it says 'Courf's Board' in big cursive curly loops on the top in blue dry-erase marker. 

Grantaire can stare at the board for hours and still not know what most of it means or understand how this kept the clinic organized, but somehow it does.

A calendar is pinned with small, laminated birthday cakes for each staff member's birthday (Grantaire nearly wept when he found out that his was on there too), approved PTO requests mark through dates (mostly all Feuilly), programs hosted by the clinic's many specialists- ones that matched the pamphlets displayed at Cosette and Jehan's desk.

On the floor lies a paper with just the words '3pm meeting :(' scrawled in what looks like crayon- Grantaire bends down to pick this up to set back on the desk before looking back up towards the cluttered board.

Smiley faces, hearts, doodles that bordered on NSFW, peppered between notifications and reminders on familiar looking sticky-notes that scatter over top each other.

One time Éponine had dared Grantaire to draw a cartoon on the board, and when Courfeyrac saw the depiction of Éponine looking like a troll when he came into work the next day, he had howled with laughter and begged for Grantaire to draw more for him. 

He felt kind of like a jerk for not having drawn anything for the delightful man, one of the first people besides Éponine to befriend him in the office, but he didn't have a lot of time to linger on the matter when his music-filled reverie is broken by the sound of an awkward cough behind him.

Shit.

 


'it's obvious'


 

One hand quickly tugs out an earbud as Grantaire spins around to face the owner of the cough, horrified that he might have been caught standing there gaping at what wasn't his business for a distressingly long time.

His reaction must have been more dramatic than he had meant, because in response Enjolras flinches and then glares for a very long two seconds before pointedly stepping around the other man and to his chair.

Too close, their hips nearly bump.

Grantaire fumbles the plastic earpiece into his jeans' pocket before pausing the music entirely.

He curses when he only manages to increase the volume before finally turning it off. Why is he out of breath like he has been running a marathon?? His gaze dares to flicker once towards the blonde man who is very purposefully not looking back at him.

It doesn't help that he still hasn't gotten the trash bin, which is now stonewalled by the presence of a very intimidating and attractive man.

Shit.

Grantaire isn't a fool; he knows that his crush on the clinic's Business Lead is a full-stop dead-end bad-news 'Only Pain Will Find You Here' kind of situation.

He is gay, not stupid.

Well...okay, let's not answer that now.

He has a job to do, and once he has cleared the final trash bin, he is free to flee the scene with his tail between his legs. 

He counts to three before finding the voice to speak, "U-uh...sorry, do you mind...?" He croaks, off to a good start, and when Enjolras quirks an eyebrow up at him in confusion Grantaire flaps his sticky hand uselessly in the direction of the bin.

Enjolras definitely isn't stretching himself down to grab the bin, and a flash of skin at his collar where his button-up shirt pulled definitely doesn't paralyze Grantaire, who can't breathe when the other man has the audacity to sound embarrassed, "Oh...oh, of course. Here."

As if this encounter can't be anymore awkward, Grantaire nearly drops the bin onto the other man's lap as it is lifted up and over to him, and he quickly jumps a step back once the receptacle is safe in his grasp, clutched to his chest.

The steady click of fingers on the keyboard fills the newly painful silence and the highest brightness setting on the laptop screen reflects back against Enjolras' statuesque face, accentuating the tiredness in slate-blue eyes and the crease of wrinkles at the corners of Enjolras' full mouth.

Grantaire definitely does not sneak glances up as he empties the bin's contents of mostly emptied and crumpled coffee cups and paper airplanes.

The 'clunk' of the container as it is set back onto the floor doesn't disturb the flow of typing, but Enjolras has the nerve to nod once in thanks to the janitor who feels like the sour candy was going to carve a hole through the inside of his cheek as he loses the internal battle between wanting to forget any of this happened and staying to spend just another moment sharing the same air as this man. 

His stupid gay brain wins, for now.

"You, uh...planning to stay working late?" What? Literally, he doubts that Enjolras even knows his name, let alone would want to tell him his evening plans.

He is trying to manage the whole clinic, of course he is going to be working late and working hard, and looking perfect doing it even as bloodshot eyes tore from the computer screen to settle on Grantaire's face.

Enjolras is quiet for a horrible moment and Grantaire nearly turns to run out of the office and into the night, never to be seen again, but stops when he is met with a sigh and a shake of golden curls in response, "A quarterly meeting with both the corporate and clinical directors is coming up in a few weeks. It's all postulating and corporate brown-nosing to prove that we're worth the funding we've earned this year," a pause, storm-grey eyes narrowing slightly at Grantaire as if assessing his reaction, before turning back to his laptop with a dismissive tone, "It's important work that needs to be done. You shouldn't stay." 

Ouch.

Grantaire frowns at that but tries to play it off like he isn't hanging onto every word the other gives him, and instead shrugs and turns to leave.

He is right- Enjolras can barely even hold a conversation with him without getting bored or annoyed.

Whatever.

As Grantaire turns to close the office door behind him with a feeling of aching finality in his movements, he watches as the other man cradles the crimson and green mug between both hands and slowly sips the offered coffee.

Savoring, eyes closing and inhaling deeply, and smiling, before turning back to his work- not noticing the captive audience lingering.

 

The cart is returned to the supply closet, prepped and loaded up for the next night.

Outside the frigid air fizzles around towering streetlamps- golden light basking in pools in the mostly empty-parking lot.

Grantaire slides into the driver-side seat of his car, and once the key in the ignition flares the engine into a roar, he jumps in surprise as the music from earlier resumed where it had last left off in his ear, now blaring from the car's speakers to mock his racing heart. 

Illuminated above his car, against the ink-black sky and far away red dots of medical helicopters, shines a sign for St. Denis Hospital.

 


'tonight is going to be the loneliest'


I like to show up to fandoms fashionably late heh...had this brain-worm and have enjoyed getting to write it out and share. I'm old and work in healthcare, but I also am taking SO MANY liberties with this story it's not even funny- if I commit a heinous offence against practicing medicine or make a HIPAA violation, please please please call me out on it so I can edit it into compliance.Otherwise! Thanks for reading this far- I hope you keep reading and enjoy where this goes!Note as of 8/27/23 not this fic being 4 months old and I literally just now noticed I've been misspelling Bossuet's name as Bousset...TTATT

It's a beautiful day to save lives.Or at least, Enjolras will get his work done, even if it kills him.

Early Chapter 2 for you! Please enjoy- thank you for reading!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Like a track runner passing a baton in a relay race, the clipboard travels from medical assistant to provider in a well-practiced exchange of information.

"I have our patient ready for you in Room 6, blood pressure 118/60, heart rate 66, oxygen 99%, and temperature at 98.5 degrees Fahrenheit but if you were to ask me last week when I was in Peru I would tell you it was 36.9 degrees Celsius," Feuilly can't help his indulgent grin and he waits until Dr. Joly's eyes have stopped rolling to the back of his head in exasperation before continuing, "You'll get your eyes stuck like that if you keep rolling them, doc. Anyways- their medication list is up to date. Would you like to do the honors of giving them the good news?"

After a quick glance over the patient's appointment notes and chart, Dr. Joly smiles softly, and a bit of the tension held in his shoulders seems to release with his exhale and the fingers of his left-hand stop fiddling with the porcelain end of his cane.

"I can't believe that they're finally at this stage in the process...it seems like it was years ago when insurance tried to deny their surgery...I'll come get you when I'm finished. In the meantime, do you mind calling over to the pharmacy to check on the status of Mr. Montparnasse's Vyvanse prescription?" Feuilly nods once before waving off the doctor, the men parting ways just in time for RN Éponine to stride down the hallway with her patient in tow.

"Now just as fair warning- your deltoid will probably be sore for a few days, and you might experience some bruising around the injection site, but with the use of over-the-counter pain relievers and ice, I don't see it giving you much trouble by the time your court date comes later this week." A fresh sheet of paper comes sputtering from a printer tucked away in a cubby in the wall before it is handed over to the patient with continued instruction.

Before directing her patient to check-out with Jehan, RN Éponine hastily scribbles in pen on the after-visit summary- 'If you need anything and I'm not available or if it's after hours, please don't hesitate to have Cosette or Jehan leave a message for me. I know how difficult custody battles can be. Best of luck!'. The patient gives the dark-haired nurse a watery, thankful smile back over their shoulder before they shuffle to the front desk where Jehan calls them over to schedule a follow-up appointment.

 

Fingers drum lightly over the keyboard but don't type out words, instead composing a gentle melody with the purpose of the rhythm simulating a heart beating- a project Jehan has been working on for the past few hours.

With RN Éponine coming up with her patient, the registrar smiles and waves the patient over to their side of the desk, "Let's get you set up for your follow-up with Dr. Joly, alright? It looks like he would like to see you in about six months- so May? Hopefully by then my garden bed outside the front of the clinic will be in full bloom!"

With her patient in the capable hands of the office's resident green-thumb, Éponine steps over to where her girlfriend sits with the phone cradled up to her ear. She knows better than to try to distract Cosette when she has that one-particular very serious look on her otherwise angelic face, so she opts instead for a chaste kiss to her lover's forehead before pulling away to get back to work.

Not that pestering Cosette during working hours isn't one of the perks of working together, but it is apparent from the overheard discussion fading from earshot that now isn't a good time for pestering.

"Yes, I understand, it does look like Combeferre was trying to call you earlier and was unable to leave a voicemail because your voicemail was full. Yes, I understand it's frustrating when you miss a call but if you don't mind--...." Cosette pinches the bridge of her nose between her fingertips as she is interrupted for the fifth time during the call- but she fights to keep her tone professional and calm.

"While I am not someone who can answer that, I just messaged Combeferre and he is more than happy to talk with you now. I apologize--...yes, I understand, and I know that Combeferre will want to talk to you directly...yes. Alright."

Jehan's eyebrows rise, and they can't help but blink dramatically as they can no longer contain their obvious attempts at not being obvious in listening in to their coworker's conversation.

Cosette slowly counts to five in her head. "One moment please, and I'll transfer you." A hold, a click of the 'transfer' button, then a sigh that she couldn't keep bottled up. "Combeferre, I have the patient whom you tried to reach earlier calling back for those results...yeah...thank you for taking this. Here they are." With a final click and transfer, the blonde lets her frown deepen, not in anger, but in pity.

"I hate when patients call to get bad results...it breaks my heart," she whispers.

Jehan reaches out to pat her hand consolingly, clicking their tongue, "You're too nice, Cosette."

A sigh, "I know."

 

In the lab, the midday clutter threatens to consume Combeferre, but he analyzes and processes his specimen collection samples and laboratory orders with one hand while his other hand clicks efficiently through a patient's chart.

"I do understand how frustrating it is to miss a call, but the fact that we're talking now is what matters. Yes, I know. So, I did have Dr. Joly take a look at this for a second opinion, and it's concluded that you did test positive for human immunodefiency virus, or more commonly known as HIV." Combeferre is silent for a moment, hating the silence that cracks through his chest and through the phone.

The initial submersion of freezing cold terror, and he can't even see the patient's face or offer to hold their hand.

Not that he is known to hold hands with patients, or anyone else for that matter (except...well, everyone knew who the exception to this rule was) and having the lab space to himself and control over his daily solitary work is well-suited for his introverted nature, but at times like this he wishes he was better at bedside manner like Dr. Joly.

"I understand that with these new diagnoses comes a lot of uncertainties and challenges, but I want to extend to you that our clinic is committed to guiding you through this every step of the way. Dr. Joly will be calling you later today to discuss different medication options and therapies. I--" He flinches when he feels a sudden touch to his shoulder, but immediately relaxes when he hears a familiar voice hiss an apology at the scare.

Courfeyrac's freckled face comes into view as the shorter man reaches up to adjust Combeferre's glasses- they must have fallen down his nose while he was distracted. The patient begins to speak, their voice quieter and calmer than before, and Combeferre turns his attention back to answering what questions he could.

It sounds like a difficult call, and Courfeyrac has a sixth sense when one of his staff members needs emotional support.

Or physical support- no one could be sad after a Courf-hug.

The all-in-one human resources representative/on-staff therapist hoists himself up onto the only clear space of desk that has yet to be overtaken by Combeferre's work and sits silently while the other's conversation continues. 

With a soft smile, he presses a pamphlet displaying resources for a support group hosted by the hospital as well as free counseling services into Combeferre's field of vision- having grabbed one before coming into the lab after overhearing Cosette's voiced concerns when passing through the lobby.

'Thank you...' the bespectacled man mouths before having the decency to blush when it is returned with a wink before Courfeyrac departs, making his way from the lab back to the cramped office space he shares with the Chief.

 

On the way, he overhears a muffled cry of joy from the room where Dr. Joly is advising a patient that they are finally cleared for top surgery after spending a year battling insurance; he passes by RN Éponine trying to toss chips into Feuilly's open mouth as the two find a moment of peace between work to argue over where to go for lunch; he hears Cosette happily introducing herself to a new patient to the clinic while Jehan calls goodbye and a 'see you at practice tonight' to a departing Bahorel who has stopped by to say hello.

Last on the list of people for his afternoon check-in is currently closing his laptop shut with a firm 'click' and glaring at the blank notebook sat next to him.

"I'm assuming that your meeting didn't quite go to plan?" Courfeyrac shuts the office door behind him to grant them both a moment of privacy, knowing that when the Enjolras is stressed, the last thing he wants is for their beloved staff to see him frazzled or anything less than perfect.

Which is unhealthy and unreasonable, and all of their friends would support Enjolras through thick-and-thin, but try telling that to the World's Best Boss.

Courfeyrac has tried before, only to be met with 'I love you, but bugger off with your counseling and let me do my job', and that is that.

"I was prepared to present a plan for adjusting the patient charting system to include a wider variety of pronoun options and surname options in our documentation but instead I just spent the past hour being told that our holiday party budget was approved and how the corporate overlords are hosting a 'decorate the office' event where the CEO will choose which office has the most 'holiday spirit'," As Enjolras speaks through gritted teeth and relaxes his hands from where they are clenching into useless fists, Courfeyrac raises up on his tippy-toes and beams in delight- "Oh don't be such a scrooge, Enjolras! Our holiday party budget was approved! We get to plan now! I was thinking the theme should be 'glitter'. Oh! Or maybe--"

With a flourish of what is supposed to be proving to the corporate lead that glitter is a great idea, Courfeyrac gets to work digging through his thick sticker-covered binder labeled ~*Courf's Ideas*~ to find where he filed away the holiday party list.

 

Murmuring 'bah humbag' into his lukewarm cup of coffee, Enjolras tries his best to ignore his coworker's out of tune humming and opens his laptop back open to begin writing a strongly worded email about the poor use of company time to promote parties when there is actual work needing to be done.

"If I could just give them a piece of my mind...'stewardship is a pillar in our mission statement'...stewardship my ass..." His tone is petulant, but he is too incensed to care as he mistypes his email's introduction for the third time, fingers trembling in righteous fury.

His frown deepens when out of the corner of his eye he sees Courfeyrac raise an eyebrow up at this comment, and sighs as he stops typing to address his initial reaction, "You know what I mean, Courf. I will never understand how leaders in the medical field- corporate or clinical- could justify wasting hard-won resources and time and money on frivolities such as parties when there is so much more we could be doing for the marginalized communities. Did you know that just this past year over five hundred gay or queer youths were counted as homeless? Without medical or dental care- the number of uninsured young people is rising, and they aren't getting the /help/ that they need...the help that we can offer!"

Enjolras chews on the inside of his lip as he tries and fails to command his fingers into resuming typing.

Courfeyrac waits for him to finish his rant before clearing his throat and speaking openly, "That is all very valid and true, Enj, and that is the heart of why we do what we do. We will never forget that."

Courfeyrac is like water to Enjolras' fire- soothing the burn, quenching the inferno that threatened to overheat and combust, instead pushing the other into a more sensible flow.

The two men reflect quietly from the opposite sides of their desk- years of friendship giving them the comfort and trust of facing the harder conversations with grace.

The quiet isn't uncomfortable.

The silence is broken when Courfeyrac pushes forward, reaching out over the cluttered desk to place his hand turned up, open for Enjolras to take, which the other man does without hesitation. Encouraged and smiling, the dark-haired man speaks.

"I do think that having a holiday party would boost morale for the staff- nobody is expecting anything extravagant, and perhaps with the leftover funds, we can donate that to a local charity? I know that Feuilly's been volunteering at a really nice halfway home downtown, and they could always use monetary or food donations. We can make the party a potluck so that way we have an excuse to have Combeferre's cookies, and oh! We could do a Secret Santa gift exchange! That way no one feels the capitalistic pressure of buying everyone a gift- instead thoughtful gifts for just one person!"

Damn it- Enjolras can't help but feel a bit of holiday spirit rise up in his throat as his friend pleads his case- with a tongue as silver-coated as a lawyer's and big brown eyes batting at him- even a Scrooge can believe in miracles. "Fine...fine. Combeferre better make those sugar cookies, then..."

That is that.

Courfeyrac writes everyone's name on little individual pieces of paper before tossing them into an unused specimen collector hat that is presented for Enjolras to draw from first.

Without any funny business, the blond reaches in and fumbles for a moment before withdrawing his chosen name.

He frowns after unraveling the crumpled paper.

"I thought that this was for employees only..."

"...It is?"

"Who even is this?"

"Enjolras. He's worked here for literally like half a year...plus, he's Éponine's friend- she's brought him along to the club several times. Oh wait, you wouldn't know because you /never go/."

"Don't pout, you know I hate clubs and dancing. That's beside the point. How could I get a gift for someone I don't even know?"

Courfeyrac sighs for what feels like the hundredth time this afternoon and reflects a frown right back, crossing his arms over his chest in an act of defiance he learned from Enjolras himself, "Well gee I don't know, if only there was an opportunity for you to talk to him and get to know him. Don't you roll your eyes at me, Enj- Joly says you'll get them stuck that way. Besides, Grantaire's a great guy- he is a good dancer, and he draws me pictures! You know that- he can draw, he dances, he's friends with Éponine and honestly at this point, friends with all of us. You made me promise to you when we started this clinic that I'd push you to be your very best. This applies to friendship and socializing too."

Enjolras tries to fight his insolent scowl but doesn't bite back because he knows that the other is right.

Aggravatingly so.

 

Before Courfeyrac can gloat over Enjolras' concession, a light rhythmic knock sounds at their door before it opens.

Jehan's head pops in- their braid falling over their shoulder as they tilt forward, and they grin before sliding the rest of their way into the room. "Wow, you both must have been doing some serious boss business- Enjolras, if you keep making that face at Courf, Dr. Joly says that your face will freeze that way."

With a demure smirk, they continue. "I was wondering if at next week's group therapy session, I could take over for a bit and utilize a music therapy lesson I have been working on? I think that the group would benefit from it, plus give me an excuse to play along with some Raffi tunes!"

"I don't see any reason why you couldn't, Jehan. Thank you for asking though- I'll add it to the reminder email we send out the day prior so that way anyone in attendance will know what to expect! Also! While I have you here..." Courfeyrac gives a rather dorky thumbs up to auburn-haired musician before moving forward with his selection of secret names for the secret gift exchange.

As their voices fade into the chorus of distant chatter, beeping machines and devices, Enjolras loses himself in his work.

Hours must have passed by the time the sounds of the office closing distract him from his screen and his phone and his papers. A headache threatens to split behind his sinuses and Enjolras groans as he cracks his neck from side to side.

He definitely does not spend time biting his fingernails till they bleed and searching online 'gifts to give someone you don't know' before giving up and hyper-focusing on the slides of his power point presentation for his upcoming review with the hospital representatives.

Familiar voices begin their call and response, fluctuating between distant croons and muffled shouts- 'goodbye Feuilly! goodbye Dr. Joly! goodbye Cosette and Éponine and Jehan and Courf and Combeferre! goodbye Enjolras!'.

"-jolras! Is your hearing impaired? Follow the movements of my finger." A finger passes in front of his visual field, startling Enjolras from his reverie- not having realized that he has been spacing out.

So severely so that he hasn't noticed the group of medical staff huddled around him with varying degrees of concern or annoyance expressed in their stares.

Dr. Joly has seated himself in Courfeyrac's chair and scooted up close to Enjolras- the doctor frowns while bloodshot eyes focus on the wagging finger. Cosette holds Éponine's hand tightly as the dark-haired girl just laughs, and Courfeyrac is busy huffing out his cheeks and trying to herd Combeferre and the others into leaving.

"'m fine, I'm fine, Joly. I was just lost in thought. What is it? Is something wrong?" Enjolras pushes away the doctor's hand and sits straighter in his chair with his shoulders set in a hard line, and he glances to the clock on the wall only to groan when he sees just how late it truly is.

"Just wanted to let you know we're heading off for the night, boss! It's Friday night so you know what that means. You're invited if you want to come!" Éponine waggles her eyebrows at the seated man but already knows his answer; she is always nice enough to at least ask, though.

The one-time Enjolras had ever agreed to go with them to the local gay club for after-work drinks, he had vomited onto Bousset's lap.

Somewhere in the depths of Combeferre's phone was a video of him singing karaoke.

Never again.

Clearly getting the answer from his expression alone, the group relents and say their goodbyes before departing- Cosette giving Enjolras a gentle kiss to the cheek and Courfeyrac reaching out to muse his curls before hopping out of the way of a poorly aimed smack in retaliation.

Quiet settles over the office like a familiar blanket and he is alone.

Enjolras is typically the first to arrive in the morning and the last to leave at night- having only been beat by Combeferre in his diligence towards working himself to death.

If it wasn't for Courfeyrac's incredible ability to manage two hard-working fools, said two fools would be six feet under, and the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic would not exist.

A few minutes later Jehan calls out their farewell before humming a soft tune as they leave.

Another half hour passes and Enjolras drains the last of his now-cold coffee in a dissatisfied gulp.

It is Friday and he has already finished most of Monday's paperwork, and while he has some weekend plans to attend to that didn't involve coming into the office- he finds himself with not a lot left to do.

Interesting.

Even Bahorel stops by to say a quick 'hi'- the hospital security guard detailing a story of how he got to pet the therapy dogs during his break. After he leaves, Enjolras decides to treat himself to catching up on a few news articles from one of his trusted blogs, when out of the corner of his eye he spots movement.

He sees /him/.

 

Unruly black curls that stick out in unnatural ways, messy unprofessional scruff shadowing lips that absently mouth along to whatever song blasted from his earbuds, and eyes that he often caught staring.

Enjolras feels an initial spike of jitteriness that doesn't just come from drinking caffeine at 7pm, and he watches the man shuffle out of sight.

Not that Enjolras pays attention, but he knows that usually around this time the nighttime janitor moves from the breakroom to the lobby.

It isn't like Enjolras memorized the other's cleaning routine or anything, that would be weird.

Some foreign emotion within him surges and Enjolras feels a panic- heart fluttering in his chest like a hummingbird hurtling itself against a clear glass window- and he jumps up from his desk as though his limbs are on fire.

Without even closing his laptop or grabbing his cellphone, trembling legs carry him down the empty hall and towards the medical supply closet that he knows won't be accessed by the man he is trying so desperately to avoid.

It isn't like he's /scared/ of him...he's just...he's just...

Enjolras freezes as a low voice sings out, the sound nearly causing the blond to stumble straight into the wall before coming to a stop- he dares to tiptoe closer to where the singing voice turns into sweet, sharp whistling.

Quietly, he peers around the corner and into the dark space of the lobby.

Enjolras watches as Grantaire reaches to pocket something from off of Cosette's desk before poking through the pamphlets to the side- settling on one to tuck into the bottom shelf of his cart before continuing on.

Enjolras lets out a breath before closing himself into the safety of the closet.

Enjolras feels like a fool, but crumples down into a chair that sits tucked in the corner between shelves of boxes of gauze and alcohol prep pads.

Above his seat, taped to the wall with cursive words scrawled in marker, reads a sign- 'Therapy Chair'. In the quiet he catches his breath and resigns to what has become routine over the past months- spot Grantaire in the hall, freak out, hide.

Rinse, lather, repeat.

And the worst part of it all is that when he does his walk of shame back from the closet to his desk after the coast was clear from Grantaire's presence, there will be that same ugly mug on his desk that hadn't been there before he fled the room- coffee brewed to the perfect temperature, black and comforting, and like always, it is the best damn coffee he's ever had.

Boy oh boy am I relying a lot on work experience for these interactions. Please don't take anything medical that happens too terribly seriously- this is an idealistic medical clinic where patients are treated fairly, and the office is properly staffed. Fiction! lol please call me out if my problems with 'tense' is screwy- I'm fighting to keep it all in the same present tense form.

Why are gift exchanges so stressful?Courfeyrac gives out Enjolras' phone number.

'We've really got to stop meeting like this.' 

No, too cliche.

'Fancy meeting you here~.'

Gross, what?


'But soft, what light through yonder window breaks?

It is the east, and Enjolras is the sun.

Arise, fair sun, and kill the envious moon,

Who is already sick and pale with grief,

That thou, his maid, art far more fair than she...

The brightness of his cheek would shame those stars.

As daylight doth a lamp; his eye in heaven

Would through the airy region stream so bright,

That birds would sing and think it were not night.'


What was this- high school Literature class? Grantaire could do better than that.

 

'Do you even notice me?'

 

...

Grantaire frowns down at his reflection- muddy water pooled in his yellow bucket, swirling with the remnants of snowy sludge and salt brought in on the heels of the clinic's visitors that wintery day.

He can hear his therapist's voice chastising his spiraling self-deprecation, warning him that his worth is not tied into someone else's opinion of him. Even though 'someone else' is the most beautiful, most terrible, and most infuriating man in the entire world and Grantaire has the misfortune of proximity and the bad habit of not knowing when to stop.

A week has passed since the awkward trash bin encounter, and Grantaire has seen little of his golden-haired obsession outside of hurried glimpses of his lithe figure quietly slipping around corners and disappearing seemingly into thin air.

Surely not avoiding the nighttime janitor, who still sets out the mug of reheated coffee like a sacrificial offering upon the alter of Gay Longing each and every night. 

The clinic is quiet save for the hum of fluorescent lights that illuminate the path he takes, his mind-numbingly glorious routine, cleaning the Bathrooms, Breakroom, Lobby, Registration, Clinical Office, Lab, Corporate Office.

Rinse, later, repeat.

Quiet that is interrupted by the music coursing through his earbuds, a KPOP idol lamenting on lost love, next an oboe cries out its agony in accompaniment with the wail of a soprano, and then the angst of not feeling good enough put into lyrics and set to alternative rock.

Is his playlist trying to actively sabotage his good vibes tonight?

Grantaire shoves an entire role of Smarties candy into his mouth, the chalky candy crunching drawing his attention away from his moody music to perk him up enough to continue on with his cleaning, moving from the lobby down to space where Dr. Joly, Feuilly, and RN Éponine reside.

Movement flickers out of the corner of his eye and Grantaire halts- knowing that at 8pm on a Wednesday, there is only one other person who would be haunting these halls.

True to his suspicion, he catches an all-too-familiar silhouette (oh, how many sketches of that same silhouette also haunted his artbook? Every page is blessed with this muse) awkwardly bolt in the opposite direction. 

Enjolras clearly has no problem with social anxiety- the founder of the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic paves the path through equal healthcare for society's estranged citizens- he has faced press conferences, led protests and rallies upon the federal and local governments, hell- there was a video on Eponine's phone showing the passionate man arguing word-for-word with a dopey medical drama during one of their group movie nights.

Grantaire bites back the 'it's probably because he doesn't want to waste time talking with you' and steels himself, eyes fluttering closed as he pulls up a mental image of building blocks- each one a picture of someone or something good in his life- his therapist's latest attempt at 'helping him become a better him', or whatever.

One year sober

the way that Éponine snorts when she laughs

the smooth lines of a fresh new pencil

the dogs at the animal shelter he visits whenever he can

when Cosette takes him out shopping

that crimson and green mug

Enjolras' way of looking at him without seeing him

Gav and Azelma calling him 'Uncle R'

red paint on a palette


Enjolras


a hand that was once warm and soft losing all semblance of life held limp in his own- the shrill beeping of hospital equipment

Enjolras

Enjolras, Enj--

"Shit!" A clatter and a hiss.

"Damn it!" A call and response, a twist of terrible luck.

A splash of muddy reflection water sloshes over the edge of the cart's basin and onto the dark jeans of Grantaire's office ghost- the man glittering even under horrendous lighting like Apollo crossing the heavens with sunlight caught in his curls- now startled as he leaps back with a soggy 'squelch' into the growing puddle in the middle of the hallway.

Grantaire hisses after the initial collision and shoves his cart to the side, his body miles ahead of his stuttering mind as he grabs a dry towel for damage control. 

He drops to his knees and shoves the towel overtop the standing water before snatching another one- pressing it first to vegan leather loafers and then to soaked trousers- no, scratch that- soaked skinny jeans. "Sorry, sorry...damn it, I wasn't paying attention. Shit- are you...um..."

It is only when he realizes that his hand has cupped the back of Enjolras' calf and that the aforementioned man hasn't moved once during the fuss that Grantaire freezes and slowly looks up.

Enjolras looks down.

Blue the color of storm clouds wanting to unleash floods meeting with his own green.

Enjolras' lip's part on the cusp of speech and Grantaire saves himself heartbreak by pulling his hands away and holding them up in surrender- trembling even as the heat from their brief contact makes him feel itchy and nervous.

He misses the furrow of blond eyebrows before what could be mistaken as a smile is immediately replaced with a grimace on the taller man's face. 

Simultaneously they fumble out apologies- interrupting each other as Enjolras steps back and Grantaire pushes himself up from his kneeling position with as much grace as he can muster.

"I must have been distracted-"

   "No, I was lost in my head, ya know--"

"I'll just be on my way..."

  "Fancy meeting you here."

"What?"

   "N-nevermind...but you uh...you have a water stain...higher up...on your pants..."

"What? Oh..."

   "U-uh...here, just...it's clean, I promise."

Tossing the last of his clean towels, Grantaire grimaces as Enjolras misses the catch and has to bend down to pick the offered fabric back up off the drying floor. The taller man awkwardly shuffles his legs in an attempt to hide the water stain that splatters across the front of the crotch of those horrendously tight jeans.

Grantaire bites back a groan- karma is cruel today.

Enjolras' lips now press into a tight line- his eyes intense as he does his best to appear nonchalant and unbothered as he dabs at the front of his pants to salvage the remainder of his dignity. "I suppose that I might have to change into an extra pair of scrubs..."

He speaks aloud more to himself than anyone in particular, but Grantaire listens as he makes himself look busy with rearranging the bottles of cleaning supplies on the top of his cart.

The battle between feeling enamored with having their longest interaction to-date and feeling irked by the intrusive urge to dare and try for more is agony.

Like two strange, horny wolves inside of him.

The second wolf wins.

"So, you got a hot date later?"

An immediate scoff and eyeroll, "Excuse me?"

"Obviously you're not just going home- otherwise you wouldn't be fussing about your outfit. Not that you'd look bad even soaked in dirty mop water (Éponine's voice in his head is screaming 'what the fuck?' but he ignores it and kept spewing words) but I guess when you look like you, you don't have to try too hard."

He feels a gross burst of jealousy rise like acrid bile in his throat at this, some insecurity burning on his lips, but he doesn't stop. Grantaire doesn't even care right now, his mouth moves, and he keeps dumbly patting at his bottles.

Enjolras has the towel clenched in his hands now as the weight of his gaze falls heavy onto Grantaire, who for the record does not recoil, before narrowing his eyes, "While I am aware that the value of physical attractiveness is merely a shallow, toxic social construct, I do not see how not wanting to look like I pissed myself when I go out on a /business meeting/ has anything to do with vanity. Are you even trying to make a point with this, or are you making a mockery of my situation? Regardless I believe your statement to lack tact, amongst other things."

Grantaire barely has time to think before he spits out his response, his thoughts scrambling around inside his skull, "I'd never mock you, Apollo, and I wouldn't dare keep you from looking your best for your /business meeting/." There it is again- something akin to jealousy and something deeper that he can't quite name. Enjolras pushes on, a scowl twisting his features and Grantaire hates how pretty he look like this.

"And to answer your first odd question, no, I am not going on a 'hot date'--"

Grantaire's throat bobs as the blond seems to struggle with saying the words, as if it is unnatural for him to even say 'hot date'.

"I'm busy. I don't have the time to indulge in romantic relationships nor do I have much interest anyways."

Oh.

A tense moment passes, and he swears that his thumping heart is about to burst out of his chest and spew blood all over the cleaned floors. 

Enjolras is the first to break, which is surprising to both himself as well as the dark-haired man who slumps, legs like jelly, against the cart as the other's attention is torn away.

"Lamarque shouldn't be expecting anything business formal tonight, not for the...heavens, what time is it??" 

Who the fuck says 'heavens'?

Enjolras does apparently, and Grantaire chokes on his drool when the business lead suddenly realizes that his soliloquy was over-stepping into after-work meeting time.

It is nearly 10pm by now, and a Wednesday no less. 

Grantaire barely has the stamina to croak out a 'bye!' as Enjolras pushes past him, discarding the towel in his single-minded task of leaving, leaving the nighttime janitor alone, skin flushed in sticky places and knees bearing the wet stains that reminds him that this whole interaction is indeed real and not some sobriety-induced nightmare.

It takes him an hour longer than normal to finish his rounds- earbuds silent yet shoved back into his ears.

By the time he has thrown himself behind the wheel of his parked sedan, Grantaire's shaky fingers are dialing in Éponine's cell number.

She picks up on the second ring.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -


~Two days later~


"Well geez, Ferre, if you wanted me /that/ badly you could've just asked- didn't need to drag me in here~" Courfeyrac cackles in delight as he watches the burning flush that rises up Combeferre's neck and up further to tinge his ears- the taller man managing a disapproving frown even though he is the one who has dragged the other down the hall and into the medical supply closet without further explanation.

He gently releases his grip of Courfeyrac's arm and slumps down into the metal folding chair that sits tucked in the corner, underneath that ridiculous 'Therapy Chair' sign.

How many times has the lab technician found himself seated just like this?

Countless times.

The others in the office too- when they need a moment to vent or decompress or cry or yell or just chat away from their gossip-loving friends- they come here.  Oftentimes dragging Courfeyrac along with them for moral support.

Sparkling brown eyes close as Combeferre observes his friend yawn and stretch- the motion accompanied by the soft crackle of joints.

Combeferre manages to fish the crumpled piece of paper that is tucked carefully into his pocket, and he frowns genuinely this time. Courfeyrac matches his frown, his playful energy dropping as he steps closer to peer down at the written source of Combeferre's distress.

"I got Cosette for the Secret Santa drawing..."

At first this is met with an agonized groan, "You do know what 'secret' means, right? Apparently, no one else in this stinkin' place does either- everyone picked their names this morning and I already know yours, Éponine's, Dr. Joly's, and Enjolras'..." For a grown man pouting, Courfeyrac still manages to look very lovely and Combeferre disregards the other's whining tone and explains further.

"Courf, you know how bad I am at coming up with gift ideas...what do I even get Cosette? What does someone like Cosette like for gifts?" He feels absurd, but when he read his Secret Santa's name he blanked and, in that moment, forgot everything he knew about one of his dearest friends.

Cosette? Cosette who?

Cosette has literally been in his life for years. He knows Cosette...so why was this so difficult?

Courfeyrac simply hums, then sighs fondly, and then leans down to press a sloppy, wet, and loud kiss to the top of Combeferre's head before patting it. "You're overthinking as always, my darling. Cosette is your friend, you just have to use that big, beautiful brain of yours to come up with some ideas. Maybe make a spreadsheet. You like spreadsheets."

He does like spreadsheets, but he doesn't have to be called out like that.

"And don't pout. You look like Enjolras...speaking of whom," Courfeyrac distractedly turns to poke at boxes of medical grade masks, shifting them out of place before setting them back in neat lines. Combeferre's gaze lifts from the paper to watch, and he raises an eyebrow as he listens to the other continue to speak, "Have you noticed that he's been extra bitchy lately? 'Cause he's been really bitchy lately and I'm exhausted."

Combeferre's lips quirk as he fights a startled laugh but shakes his head. "I've honestly been too busy to notice him acting out of the ordinary. I suppose that out of anyone, you'd be the one who could get down to the bottom of this 'bitchy' behavior."

That earns him a dimpled smile and his heart palpitates.

Perhaps he should have Dr. Joly listen to his heart with the stethoscope later, rule out arrhythmia or a murmur. Lately, he has been having these heart flutters, but only at work. Maybe it is stress.

If Combeferre is honest with himself, he would also correlate that the heart flutters tend to occur when he smells Courfeyrac's cologne or sees him smile or...you know-Let's not look too much more into that right now.

"He told me that he had a weird conversation with Grantaire on Wednesday. Something about 'hot dates' and getting water spilled on him? I don't know, but he's been in a weird mood ever since. Won't stop talking about it. I suggested that he text Grantaire just to try to clear the air, but he just did his whole 'you know I prefer face-to-face communication' spiel and made his best grumpy face."

Enjolras does make a good grumpy face, Combeferre concedes, "So what did you do then?"

"I gave Grantaire his number instead."

"Courfeyrac!"

"What? It's for his good and Grantaire's good! Enjolras needs to learn how to play nice and Grantaire could use more friends."

"You think that everyone needs more friends."

A look passes between the two men, and neither can be the first to pull away, Courfeyrac's expression twisting into a softer smile while Combeferre just sighs and rubs at his temples before familiar hands reach out to gently adjust his glasses.

Combeferre blinks up at the other man and unspoken words, in a language neither quite understand, pass between them.

Now the fluttering is in his stomach- weird.

They are both startled out of their reverie when the loud buzz of a cellphone alarm chirps from Courfeyrac's back pocket. He squints down at the screen after tugging it out, and then huffs a breath out, his demeanor shifting from relaxed to his HR 'gotta be serious' mode. 

Once, during their quarterly performance reviews, Courfeyrac had greeted the hospital board of directors with 'It's Courfin' Time'.

He was quickly removed from the meeting and had to publicly apologize for terrorizing his friends and bosses.

Combeferre opens his mouth to question the sudden shift in demeanor, but Courfeyrac is already stepping away and moving quickly towards the door. He calls out in explanation, "S.O.S message from Jehan...someone's being belligerent at the registration desk, and they need back-up. Now don't forget!"

Here he flashes one more smile over his shoulder, this one more rehearsed and sparkling white, but still leaving the still-seated man flushed, "Remember- Big, beautiful brain!".

It sticks in Combeferre's head like a mantra for the rest of the day.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

3:42pm To Apollo:   hey apollo courf gave me ur number. u can ignore me if u want but i wanted to apologiz again for splashing u with water ... hope ur hot date was still good

5:06pm From Apollo:   I did not consent to Courfeyrac to giving you my phone number, but I suppose it's too late to take it back now. You don't have to apologize for that- it was an accident, and the water stains came right out. 

5:12pm From Apollo:   Like I told you previously, it was not a 'hot date'. It was a business meeting with one of our charity sponsors. 

5:15pm To Apollo:   sounds boring as hell tbh ... and u kno u can just delete my txt? u dont have to save my number

6:49pm From Apollo:   While my evening was lacking the party-going and dancing and drinking I'm sure you're most accustomed to, our charity sponsor and I discussed fundraising events to help not only raise money for our clinic but to also arrange for our staff to provide monthly health screening seminars at a local women's shelter. Certainly not what I'd call boring. 

7:00pm To Apollo:   naw i dont drink anymore- over one year sober. but that sounds cool i guess- makes sense why ep asked me to babysit gav and zelma 

8:33pm From Apollo:   Sobriety is a commendable achievement. Who is 'ep'?

8:40pm To Apollo:   u txt so fuckin slow 

8:41pm To Apollo:   are u even still at work? i dont see u

8:45pm To Apollo:  sry that sounds creepy usually i just notice when ur in ur office

8:47pm To Apollo:   ep is eponine- u kno her duh. sometims when she works overtime i babysit her bro and sis

9:24pm From Apollo:   You type very fast, in my opinion. I am still at work, but I don't see how that is relevant. I knew that Eponine had a brother and sister, and I'm grateful that she has help to care for them. 

9:28pm To Apollo:   well damn apollo is that a compliment? ;)

9:39pm From Apollo:   A compliment towards your willingness to help someone in need, I suppose. I value individuals who put in effort to help those less fortunate or marginalized. The ones often overlooked or forgotten. Do you volunteer or do anything with your time outside of working for the clinic?

10:13pm To Apollo:   plz tell me ur not still at work 

10:15pm To Apollo:   ... 

10:20pm To Apollo:   fine. i dont really do a lot when im not workin- kind of taking a break from life stuff right now

10:22pm To Apollo:   goin to therapy and sometimes i go out to the club with courf and the others

10:31pm To Apollo:   otherwise just day by day tryin to get by

10:33pm To Apollo:   i draw, but im kind of taking a break from that too

11:26pm From Apollo:   I was taking the train home. So, you don't do any volunteer or charity work? You don't have any causes you contribute to with your time and energy? 

11:30pm To Apollo:  r u realy judging me right now?

11:32pm To Apollo:   i told u, im taking a break, burn out is no joke

11:37pm To Apollo:   maybe u should take a page out of my book- start with that caffeine addiction

11:58pm From Apollo:   It's late and I think we should end this conversation before it devolves any further. If you ever find yourself motivated to do something with your life, something to believe in and work towards, I'll be impressed. Otherwise, good night to you.

12:04am To Apollo:   whatever :)

12:12pm From Apollo:   Do you always have to have the final word?

12:13pm To Apollo:  gnight Apollo

Grantaire is seated in Cosette's chair, the cushion that props the petite blonde up makes his longer legs awkwardly jam against the underside of her desk, but he is too busy gnawing his lip raw in despair to notice.

His phone is weeping from its drained battery, so he shoves it roughly in his pocket. 

Why is Enjolras so...so...

Enjolras?

Full stop sentences with punctuation and lack of emojis.

Managing to make him feel so small and worthless while just the idea of getting to text with the corporate lead is enough to send Grantaire into a tizzy of delight. 

Why is he so beautiful and frustrating?

Passionate and annoying?

Charming and terrible.

Grantaire scrubs a hand across his face and tries to push aside his conflicting emotions by distracting himself with unwrapping the neatly folded paper that has been left along with his daily ration of candy from Cosette.

He knows that Courfeyrac included him in the office's Secret Santa gift exchange, despite his protests of not really being part of the group, but the smaller man had given him such a terrifying look that Grantaire knew to shut right up and agree to participate without further fuss. 

Tired green eyes flicker over the name (colored with red crayon) and immediately his demeanor softens.

Okay, okay...this was okay.

This was more than okay- his artistic mind begins designing the perfect scene set in acrylic paint- and he nearly forgets about the text conversation with Enjolras as he continues composing his idea while he finishes cleaning the clinic. 

On Fridays he works later than the week nights- taking the opportunity of the looming weekend to get through otherwise overlooked chores like mopping or restocking bathrooms, which also means that he has plenty more time to lose himself in his thoughts.

Nearly forgetting about the text conversation.

Not at all thinking of ways he believes in anything Enjolras stands for.

How he wants to impress him.

Not that he'll ever say this, of course.

Not even when he shows Éponine their text messages the following day, reading too deeply into every word until even his best friend is sick of him and orders him to get over it or just tell Enjolras the truth about his feelings.

Grantaire can't forget the feel of wet stains on his knees and decides instead to lose himself in his artbook and crafting his Secret Santa gift.

To be honest, the thought of opening up about his past...his art, his carved heart and memories of a friend who now was little more than a memory or smudge of red paint on paper, scares him more than anything ever has. 

Enjolras can just believe that he was some good-for-nothing, lazy asshole.

Grantaire can live with that.

For now, at least. Until the stains dry and his heart settles.

Combeferre has really big feelings and Courfeyrac is only a little guy.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Courfeyrac watches Enjolras attempt to discreetly peek at his phone screen; the often-neglected device lies face up on the desk, which isn't even the strange part.

The strange part of this whole scene is that the bright flash of a notification causes the blond man to pause in whatever he was doing, if only for a moment, and glance over. Once several notifications clutter the home screen, he finally snatches the phone up and types as quickly and furiously as his technologically impaired self can.

Courfeyrac and Combeferre bought Enjolras his very first phone during their first year at university- and in the decade since then he's proven to be less competent than the elderly. 

Courfeyrac leans over his side of their shared desk to encroach upon Enjolras' personal space, "Mmmkay, I think you've been texting more this morning than I ever have seen you do in our whole friendship. Even more than like, pre-protest group texting. Wait a moment...say it isn't so..."

With his usual flare for the dramatics, Courfeyrac twists around in his seat and throws himself backwards over the desk- arms coming up to clutch at his chest in despair- and managing to bump aside Enjolras' stacks of disorganized papers and tablet.

Enjolras' sharp jaw tilts away and a fine-boned hand smushes against the dark-haired man's face.

Courfeyrac continues lamenting through his muzzle until the other gives up and pulls his freshly saliva-slickened fingers away with a 'bleck' sound.

"You've found yourself a suitor. That can be the only explanation. What will Ferre think? What will /Feuilly/ think? My heart can't take this much longer..."

One hand weakly flops to the side, smacking across Enjolras' chest and earning him an irritated groan. "If you keep acting like that, I'll never tell you. I'm not going to tell you anyways- you're terrible at keeping secrets."

Courfeyrac pouts and hefts himself back up, sitting cross-legged on the desk without a care for the disruption towards the corporate lead's clutter. 

"Am not! I still haven't told anyone about that time you tried to dye your hair!"

"...I didn't tell you that. Only Combeferre knew about that. Or at least, Combeferre was the only one who was supposed to know about that."

"...oops."

A pointed look from his best friend is all that is needed for Courfeyrac to reach out and gently tangle a few golden, undyed curls around his fingers, pleased at least that Enjolras isn't so pissed to pull away from the intimate touch.

"If it's really that important to you to not tell me who you're texting, then I'll respect your boundaries. But I also want you to know that if you ever want to talk about it--"

Enjolras, unable to fight back his soft smile of endearment, finishes the other's sentence with, "Courf is the best counselor in the whole clinic. Yes, yes I know. And...thank you."

Another incoming text message notification pops up across the poorly hidden phone screen, and to prove a point Courfeyrac slides off of his unsteady perch and turns instead to face the corkboard which contains everything that keeps their office up and running.

He double-checks the calendar, making a mental note that next week is Bahorel's birthday, and begins to think of when would be best to go out shopping for party supplies. Bahorel likes yellow and red and brown? Courfeyrac is pretty sure he's remembering correctly, because brown is a really unique color to have as a favorite but hey, you know, more power to him. Jehan will probably want to help plan decorations, Combeferre will bring dessert, perhaps after work they can all hang out at his and Marius' apartment?

Luckily, he has time, and is already in party-planning mode with the Holiday Party circled multiple times on the calendar just a few weeks later.

The sound of clattering keyboard clicks lasts about five minutes before it is replaced with slow-motion fury typing.

"You know- it's faster to type with both thumbs instead of just your pointer finger. Just sayin'." Courfeyrac sucks in his bottom lip to hold back a giggle as he feels Enjolras' glare burning holes in the back of his head.

"You're not the only one who complains about how slow I type...it's not me, it's this damn small screen. I'm going to have to get reading glasses just to see the letters I'm typing." Enjolras sets the phone down again, a soft thump against the table, but concedes with a sigh and a hand-running through his hair to tie it up into a messy ponytail. 

Courfeyrac remains quiet for what is probably the first time in his whole life, but he turns around to plop back into his own chair and rest his chin over his folded hands, dark brown eyes flickering up to patiently watch Enjolras' expressive face take a journey through the five stages of grief before the other man speaks again. 

"I've been texting with Grantaire."

"Oh shit..."

"It has been an...insightful...experience."

"Do you...want to talk about that?" Years of studies and thousands of dollars in debt provides Courfeyrac the skills to handle situations just like this, obviously.

Enjolras frowns and gently pushes his cellphone across the table and towards Courfeyrac, offering up the device to the smaller man, who reverently picks up the phone and looks up once for consent before scrolling through the most recent messages.

6:14am To Grantaire:   Do you really think that what we do here in the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic is not something achievable in the future of healthcare? That we only live in a sanitized and unrealistic 'bubble' without any introspection or attainability? And I suppose red, why would you ask?

9:56am From Grantaire:   shit i mean

9:58am From Grantaire:   yea. while what u guys do is great and all, i dont think that the rest of the world is ready for that

10: 01am From Grantaire:   u obv watch the news- its all money and wealthy white cis conservativ men running the show

10:06am From Grantaire:   they dont giv a damn about any of this and in the grand scheme of things tis whole idea of sdc wont work

10:08am From Grantaire:   not sayin it isnt ideal- just not realistic ya kno

10:19am From Grantaire:   also u text me so fuckin early man, do u ever sleep???

10:20am From Grantaire:   of course its red

11:02am To Grantaire:   If we continue to rally the general population into understanding the issues faced by LGBTQA+ people and other marginalized or abused groups, it will translate then into more mainstream spaces. People fear what they don't understand, but we can show them that clinics like ours can save so many lives and help transform communities into places of prosperity. The ideal is more realistic than you think. And what do you mean by 'of course'? It's more than an acceptable favorite color to have. 

11:08am From Grantaire:   whatever u say apollo

11:11am From Grantaire:   make a wish

11:29am To Grantaire:   What do you mean?

11:33am From Grantaire:   11:11 make a wish, I made one, bet u never guess what it was for

Courfeyrac's grin rivals the Cheshire cat's once he's finished reading the exchange between Enjolras (who now sat with his face schooled into a mask of unbothered marble) and Grantaire (who Courfeyrac was now /so/ excited to see for after-work drinks tomorrow). He is doubly excited that he is not in trouble for giving away the other's phone number.

"Insightful is one way to put it. Wow, Enj- I never took you for someone who texted during working hours. Workin' hard or hardly workin', am I right?"

This crack at his work ethic seems to break down the cold barrier that the taller man hastily built, and he delicately pries his phone back out of his friend's hands and settles it into the safety of his jeans pocket, "I won't any longer. There are far more important things to work on- my meeting Jean Valjean and Javert is fast approaching, and I need to have all of the presentations organized. Our conversation is merely a distraction that I cannot afford to indulge in any longer."

Courfeyrac intertwines his fingers together and locks them behind his back as he stands up from his seat, mischief twinkling in his gaze, and he saunters over to the door. "Whatever you say...Apollo~"

Before Enjolras can throw a stapler at his head, the freckled man slips through the doorway and presses the door closed with a pleased 'click'. 

 

If Combeferre caught wind of his instigating and subsequent matchmaking scheme, Courfeyrac would be sentenced to death by lecture. On one hand he would very much like to not have his well-thought-out plans soiled, but on the other hand, being punished by Ferre for bad behavior is making the skin of his neck under his collar itch. 

It is perfectly normal to have a crush on your best friend.

Courfeyrac has crushes on all of his friends, he kisses them all like it's going out of style, and he's even dated Jehan and for one glorious week made Dr. Joly's trio a quartet.

He's seen more than half of his friends in compromising situations and positions.

Hell, he was roommates with Enjolras and Combeferre for four years and he has seen their butts more than what is probably socially acceptable (to be fair, Enjolras did it because he was boycotting fast fashion, and Combeferre sleeps naked) but to prove a point to the voice inside of his head- Courfeyrac agrees that his unrequited attraction towards Combeferre is perfectly normal.

"-ourf! Hey...are you okay?" With a very dignified and manly squeak at the sudden jostling at his shoulder, Courfeyrac opens his eyes (when had he closed them?) to Feuilly's sun-kissed cheek turning as the medical assistant threw a concerned glance down the hallway before looking back to him.

Two voices are echoing loudly from one of the clinic's examination rooms, and Feuilly's fingers are trembling as they let go of Courfeyrac's shoulders. "S-sorry, sorry. Yeah, I'm fine. What's uh...what's going on?" He asks as they both turn to walk towards the commotion. 

"I didn't even know that Combeferre could get so loud..." Feuilly admits and Courfeyrac gulps, their pace quickening as the arguing (two familiar voices- Dr. Joly's tenor rising higher as Combeferre's bass responds in clipped bursts) grows louder and he mentally steels himself for what awaits them in Exam Room 10.

Cosette and Éponine are standing at either side of the door but quickly hop back when Courfeyrac passes by, Cosette losing her battle with fighting back tears while Éponine's hands are curled into fists at her sides. They don't say a word, but Feuilly comes to a stop next to Cosette and prepares for back-up.

This is bad.

Real bad.

 

Dr. Joly and Combeferre are stationed at opposing sides of the otherwise cleared room.

Dr. Joly's cane is clutched desperately between his wringing fingers; the doctor's dark eyes narrow accusingly and his cheeks carry a flush of aggravation.

Combeferre looks very...un-Combeferreish- his sandy brown hair is disheveled, and his broad shoulders are curved inwards, posture broken, and the warmth of his skin is drained to a sickly green hue. On the counter behind Dr. Joly sits a clipboard with papers securely holding them in place, red pen circling a few notes. 

Their voices are loud and only growing louder, and neither seem to care that Courfeyrac has shuffled himself into the doorway and is gaping at them in disbelief.

   "This...this isn't acceptable Combeferre! I can't believe that you did this...this is a very very serious error..."

"You don't think I know that? That I don't accept responsibility for this?"

   "I'm not sure how seriously you're taking this. When you found the error, it was almost too late. This should have been caught hours ago and now /my/ patient is having her treatment delayed for...for clerical error!"

"I would have brought it to your attention sooner if I had the time, Joly! I swear I've been reading results for the past thirty hours straight and if I had known I obviously would have caught the mistake and /our/ patient wouldn't have been given the wrong dose. What do you want me to do about it now?"

   "Being busy isn't an excuse and you know it, Combeferre. We've all been busy but that doesn't excuse mistakes like this. I would have thought you were better than that."

"Well, what do you suggest I do then? Hm? I can just stop reading your results then, huh? I asked you to hold off on your hormone clinic for a few weeks so I could finish up the last session, but you insisted. You insisted and I couldn't fucking keep up. There! You happy now?"

   "That's not what I meant..."

"I can't see you meaning that any other way, Joly. I can't fix this, and neither can you, and now..."

This isn't right.

Courfeyrac's heart drops at Combeferre's cursing and when Joly stamps his cane against the tiles as if reiterating his point. Never once in his entire life has he heard either man speak like this, let alone to one another.

Sure, Ferre can get a bit mouthy when he's drunk and Joly is infamous for needing both Musichetta and Bousset to haul him away during fiery protests, but never has the doctor and lab technician had an argument like they are now.

As much as he wants to soothe the shouting, Courfeyrac needs to address the accusations first.

"Hold up, hold up- what is going on you two? Combeferre, stop. Dr. Joly, explain."

Combeferre drags a trembling hand through his hair again, one of the few outward signs that the man allows when distressed, and it takes every ounce of self-control on Courfeyrac's part to not try and soothe his anxiety with gentle words and a hug. 

Dr. Joly's lips snap closed in a frown, but he nods once and clears his throat, "We just received news that one of our patients has to have one of her drug therapies be postponed due to an incorrect dosage being ordered. A drug that I had just prescribed her yesterday. I had prescribed it based off of recent lab results that were read by Combeferre, but it wasn't until this morning that we found out that Combeferre had read the wrong results and the dose was far too high. But by the time we found out, it was almost too late."

"Is the patient aware of the error? She didn't take the incorrect dose, right? Has she said anything about filing a complaint?" Courfeyrac has the grace to calmly murmur his concerns as he looks between the two men.

"She should be alright, I called her myself about fifteen minutes ago and explained the situation. While she is rightfully frustrated, she will be monitored closely." The doctor pauses to turn his frown towards the man standing opposite him, a tinge of sympathy working through his frustration.

"Thank you, Dr. Joly. I'll call her later today and follow up again. Combeferre...she's going to be alright. Have you not been taking your scheduled breaks?"

Combeferre still hasn't spoken, hasn't even looked up from where his eyes stay glued to the tops of his sneakers. His glasses perch precariously over his nose, but he makes no move to shove them back up. 

Courfeyrac nods to Joly- grateful for his friend for keeping it together when he needs to focus now on Combeferre.

Combeferre seems to be barely breathing, and what breath does escape is trembling and caught up like his chest isn't expanding enough. "Ferre? Honey, are you with us?" He doesn't touch him, but Courfeyrac steps closer, close enough to catch his gaze.

Grey eyes are wide and unfocused, hidden half-way behind falling glasses. 

"We can talk about the situation later once everyone's cooled down...you know, everyone makes mistakes--"

 

"I almost killed her."

 

Courfeyrac blinks when Combeferre's first words are more of a strangled gasp than his usual low timbre, and he feels his heart break just a little more.

Before he can continue, Dr. Joly steps forward besides the smaller man and squares his shoulders.

"I'm not going to say that you're wrong, but Courfeyrac is right...what we can do now is own up to our mistakes, accept the consequences, and move on. Move forward- like how Enjolras always says." It is the doctor's attempt at comforting the distressed man, and Courfeyrac could smooch him right then and there if there weren't more important things at hand.

"Here, let's go get some water and cool down. I know you've been working overtime, Ferre, and Enj and I are still looking into hiring an assistant for you- with all the new patients we've been taking on--"

Combeferre's chest heaves with sudden force and his head tilts up, meeting both shorter men's gazes with tears staining his pale cheeks, "I'm fine! I don't need help! I don't need an assistant. I just need to try harder; I-I need to do better. I can do better. Don't trivialize what I've done. I...fuck, I-I...I don't deserve to work here! I'm only letting you all down!"

Unanimous gasps of all the variations of his name came at once from Dr. Joly, Courfeyrac, Feuilly, Éponine, and Cosette, followed by a burst of 'don't say that!', "Ferre, what?', 'are you serious?', 'fuck you', and 'that's not true!' respectively.

Combeferre only shakes his head as though refusing their protests, and storms through the crowding coworkers, his glasses clattering from his face to the linoleum floor.

He must not notice it happen as he practically bolts down the hallway and disappears into the medical supply closet.

 

All five friends stand wordlessly in exam Room 10 as the dramatic departure leaves them in varying states of disquiet.

Dr. Joly looks as though all of his energy has been zapped away, and he limps away to his desk without another word.

Éponine follows after him, her own shoulders shaking as it's clear she has more to say but knows better than to say it- she has always held a soft spot for Combeferre, and she knows that picking at a fresh wound is bad for its healing.

Feuilly awkwardly rubs Cosette's shoulder before nodding to Courfeyrac, whispering softly, "They'll sort themselves out. And I'm glad that Enjolras is looking into hiring a lab assistant. Ever since Dr. Joly has taken on that new drug study, we've all been feeling the strain. I guess we've all been too busy to notice Combeferre struggling. I...I'll go tell boss what's been going on." 

Courfeyrac nods once even though he feels his gut twist in shame.

How had he missed this? How had it gotten so bad?

He sees Combeferre every single day, they drive to work together, they have sleepovers at each other's apartments all the time, and while yeah, sure, Ferre has been sporting this season's most fashionable under-eye bags and adding a few extra spoonsful of sugar to his morning, afternoon, and evening tea, he's not once complained of being overworked.

But then again, when has Combeferre been one to complain, especially when it comes to his workload.

Courfeyrac feels like he might just start crying, but Cosette is fussing with the ends of her hair and peering down the hall towards the lobby where Jehan has called out for her, their voice soft and melodious in lieu of the finished argument.

"Sweetie, I have to go back to the desk, I don't want to leave Jehan alone to handle the after-lunch rush. But if you need /anything/, anything at all, come get me, okay?" Cosette seems to have valiantly fought away her tears and smiles weakly at Courfeyrac, the blonde then giving his hands a gentle squeeze before leaving as well.

Alone in the exam room, Courfeyrac scrunches his nose in frustration and bends down to pick up Combeferre's fallen glasses.

Thankfully, they are unbroken, but foggy from the remnants of tears and snot from their owner's emotional outburst.

Ten minutes of alone time was all Courfeyrac can wait for, and with a cup of cold water in one hand and the rescued glasses in his other, he knocks once on the medical supply closet door before entering.

To any patients outside in the hallway they might think it strange for the curly-haired employee to knock on a closet door, but that's only because they don't know of the magical healing powers that the Therapy Chair provides to the staff.

Reminiscent of their prior meeting, Combeferre is found on the metal folding chair, his torso curled down so that his chest is nearly parallel to his knees. If he is crying, Courfeyrac doesn't point it out. 

Instead, he sets the cup of water onto a nearby shelf before dropping to his knees in front of the crestfallen lab technician. 

No words, no judgements.

"Can I touch you, Ferre?" His voice comes out soft, calmer than the horrendously sad feeling that claims his heart as he watches his friend's back tremble with the effort of containing sobs.

Combeferre sniffles and heaves a breath before nodding, not yet daring speak.

Good, he's not so far gone to not want this.

Courfeyrac's hands both lift to cradle Combeferre's head, not making him unfold yet, but gently threading his tan fingers through tufts of light-brown hair and caressing outwards and then back.

It's a familiar position the two men have found themselves in before many times- panic attacks in high school over coming to terms with their sexuality and facing their peers and families, agonizing through tests and exams and the horrors of university, that one time in their whole relationship where Combeferre caught a stomach bug from Enjolras and Courfeyrac had to nurse him back to health.

With a soft hum, Courfeyrac continues his caressing until Combeferre shifts and finds the strength to look up.

They both stare at one another.

Combeferre looks devastatingly beautiful and Courfeyrac smiles, even with red-rimmed eyes blinking blindly without glasses, even with a booger trail somehow smeared over one of his eyebrows, and even when Combeferre's lips are crashing against his.

Kissing him.

Oh.

Combeferre's eyes are closed, no longer leaking tears, and he's tilting his head and leaning in closer likes he wants to meld firmly against Courfeyrac but can't quite get close enough. Without thinking twice, Courfeyrac's hands are gripping tightly at the soft, mused hair he had been caressing moments ago and draws up higher on his knees, finding himself set between Combeferre's parted legs.

Their lips are parting and Combeferre's breath is hot and wet and oh god this is better than anything Courfeyrac could have dreamed of, and he gasps against his mouth with a sigh of the other's name- 'Ferre--'

Just as quickly as it starts, Combeferre has torn himself away and makes a noise that sounds like both a moan and a sob. Courfeyrac lands backwards onto his ass in shock, dark eyes a bit glazed and unfocused. 

His lips are burning, and he can't breathe, can't think, all he knows is that Combeferre was kissing him and now he isn't and why is he not still kissing him??

"I'm sorry." 

Combeferre chokes on his words as he roughly pushes up from the chair, grabs his glasses from the shelf, and stumbles out the door and out of sight. The door slams behind him in his hasty exit. 

Courfeyrac sits unmoving for what could be hours.

Courfeyrac sits unmoving until he hears the closet door quietly open and then shut, and he still doesn't move.

He doesn't move until Enjolras is hoisting him up and onto the vacant chair. Enjolras presses the long-forgotten cup of water into his hands, but when he realizes that Courfeyrac's hands are shaking too hard to hold the cup without dumping half of it down his button-up shirt, helps hold it to his still-burning lips.

The two men don't speak as Enjolras helps Courfeyrac to his feet and leads him back down the hall towards their office, holding his hand. Most of the lights are off and their friends have left for the night.

He can hear the sounds of Grantaire humming from the breakroom, and Enjolras sips slowly from his red and green coffee mug.

Courfeyrac stays as late as Enjolras that night, and the blond texts Marius to tell him that Courfeyrac will be sleeping over at his apartment.

Enjolras takes Courfeyrac's car keys and drives them both home to his apartment, where the two men are silent in their bedtime routine. 

Courfeyrac always prefers to have someone sleeping in bed with him; he claims it's because he's always cold, but he really just likes the comfort of another body to hold and to cuddle to sleep.

Not that he is able to sleep now, with the hours ticking past, but he curls against Enjolras' back and buries his face into the soft fabric of other's white t-shirt, mind reliving that wonderful kiss and the awful look on Combeferre's face when he realized what he had done.

Even with Enjolras restlessly dozing next to him, Courfeyrac feels as lonely as ever.

Heh heh heh :)

Marius is the A in LGBTQA+TW for mild physical violence later on in the chapter


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


2:14pm From Ép:   EMERGENCY MEETING

2:14pm From Ép:   AT CORINTHE TONIGHT 8pm STAT

2:15pm From Ép:   I'm so serious R it's not even funny

2:16pm To Ép:   hi so serious im R

2:18pm From Ép:   be serious

2:20pm To Ép:   im wild lol

2:21pm From Ép:   dumbass

2:23pm From Ép:   R morale is so bad over here right now- Cosette is ready to set off the fire alarm to get us out of work early

2:27pm To Ép:   wtf is going on? ?

2:34pm From Ép:   ferre had a breakdown at work yesterday and is on a 'medical leave' indefinitely

2:36pm From Ép:   courf is literally miserable and hasnt even left any dumb sticky notes on our desks

2:36pm From Ép:   dr. j and feuilly wont stop fussing and I want to scream

2:37pm To Ép:   ... and emergency meet at the club becuz ?

2:38pm From Ép:   listen, everyone knows that one thing that everyone loves to do is dance and listen to karaoke and get drunk

2:39 pm From Ép:   scratch that last one

2:44pm To Ép:   sure whatever

2:45pm To Ép:   waht can i say

2:45pm To Ép:   my hips dont lie

3:47pm From Ép:   🖕

3:50pm From Ép:   thank you R. courf really likes you and I think it would cheer him up to have friends around. I'm going to try to text ferre too, but you know, no ones really heard from him besides enj

3:51pm To Ép:   im sure hes okay

3:59pm From Ép:   I gotta get back to work but I'll see you later?

4:16pm To Ép:   yep


 Grantaire 


And this is how Grantaire finds himself standing outside of Taverne Corinthe, fashionably late at 8:08pm.

He ignores the stream of late-night strollers and alleyway loiterers avoiding each other, a few bump his shoulder as they pass, but he steadies himself before entering the looming building ahead of him.

Part of him regrets coming, honestly.

Grantaire had spent most of his day asleep until Éponine's panicked burst of texts forced him up and out of his cozy blanket cocoon.

The artist-turned-janitor has never enjoyed a healthy sleep schedule, but nowadays his nights have been spent occupied with texting another night owl who claims to be too busy to sleep and refuses to acknowledge his own caffeine addiction.

Éponine is calling them a 'situationship', but Grantaire stubbornly ignores her. Any kind of ship that involves Enjolras and him is doomed to sink.

The throbbing pulse of music from inside the club feels like it's rattling his bones and he bemoans his social commitments.

Grantaire shakes those selfish thoughts from his head. His friends are inside, and friends don't come easily to men like him, and if there is even a little chance that he can help cheer them up- he pushes forward.

 

An immediate wave of sweltering heat and the smell of sweat and booze wafts over, and Grantaire shrugs off his threadbare leather jacket as he passes through the narrow hallway and into the belly of the beast.

Taverne Corinthe is the favored gay bar for the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic staff, frequented for monthly hang-out sessions and a beloved monument to letting loose and having fun. 

At least, that is supposed to be what is happening, but tonight the dance floor is nearly empty, Madame Houchelop makes herself busy with mixing drinks for a few patrons lined at the bar, and Grantaire's gaze immediately locks onto ruinous raincloud grey eyes that are peering intensely up at him from behind the top of a book.

The energy between them is palpable and Grantaire feels all of the air woosh out of him like a punch to his sternum.

Shit.

Enjolras never comes to the Corinthe- he is allergic to fun.

Some cruel higher power must be mocking him, because there is his golden Apollo, his Achilles, his reason for almost everything, furiously hiding himself behind the pages of whatever monstrously thick political theory book he has smuggled inside, and Grantaire has to dislodge the lump in his throat as he saunters over to the rest of the group who scatter amongst a few booths and tables in the back.

When spotted, he's met with a few happy cries of his name, and Cosette is the first to run up and throw her arms around his neck- squeezing him tightly as he tries not to squeeze back in fear of breaking her 4'11" frame.

Éponine claims that her girlfriend knows how to kill a man in twenty different ways with only a nail file, but Grantaire doesn't want to risk it.

Speaking of the devil herself, his sharp-eyed friend follows soon after, and she first punches his shoulder before raking her gaze over his best attempt at 'dressing up'. He shifts his weight from one foot to the other, worrying at the sleeves of his flannel.

"Hey, don't judge- it's clean. Barely any paint stains."

Grantaire must pass as acceptable at least because Éponine hops away from his reach (to avoid getting a face full of not-stinky armpit) and punches him again before pivoting towards the DJ booth. A woman of few words, but much pain.

He doesn't have the chance to follow after her, because Cosette has gotten ahold of a shrimpy looking ginger with more freckles than Courfeyrac, and her grip on his arm just a little too tight to not hurt. 

"Look who we haaaave~" She coos.

"Hey, Marius."

Marius, presented like a lamb at the slaughter, attempts a Vulcan salute.

Grantaire looks mildly horrified but has enough social grace to high-five him. Their hands linger pressed together for a beat too long and Grantaire is the first to break contact while Marius beams a dopey smile, unfazed by the awkwardness.

"Hiya Grantaire! Long time no see, huh? Are you still interested in following up with our discussion last month? Remember- we were gonna--"

"Marius, honey, let the man say 'hi' to the rest of the group and relax before you try to get him theorizing about language roots or zoning laws."

Cosette, angelic under the flares of disco lights and haze of smoke and pot, barely has to breathe her command for Marius to obediently nod and shuffle away to join the crowded two tables their group claims. 

Grantaire raises an eyebrow at Marius' retreating form, and Cosette giggles prettily and leads the dark-haired man to meet Éponine back in the middle of the otherwise empty dance floor.

"He's committed to being the best Ally, and he's always been a bit like a puppy." Cosette muses fondly while Eponine lets out a derisive snort, the girls sharing a knowing glance that makes Grantaire wish he didn't have eyes.

Éponine continues, ignoring her friend's uncomfortable fidgeting, "He thinks that he has the 'magic touch' and that any girl he kisses ends up 'turning' gay. Which is bullshit because we don't just 'turn' gay, but coming from him he just thinks it's like a superpower and he's willing to kiss more girls to show them 'the way of the gay'."

Grantaire feels nauseous imaging Marius kissing anyone, even though the dorky little guy literally dated Cosette in high school and Eponine in college.

Grantaire has suffered through many years of Marius drama; enough to last him the rest of his life and then some.

Now Marius happily wore has third-wheel status like a badge of honor and became an honorary member of the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic through dating/roommate nepotism.

Weirdo.

"Oookay, I'm officially leaving this conversation!"

The lady demons cackle at his retreating back as they fold into each other's arms to dance, but Grantaire is too busy to flick them off as he is determined to decipher what exactly is happening at the booths where the rest of their party lounges.

Courfeyrac is draped supine over one of the tables, arms hanging limply over the sides, dramatically sighing every time Dr. Joly pokes at his ribs or Jehan twists another braid into his glossy curls.

The whole set-up is reminiscent of an exorcism- just with less religious iconography and more queer despair- and each time a friend passes by his displayed form, they pat at whatever body part of the forlorn Courfeyrac is within reach.

Bossuet nods his 'hello' to Grantaire as he and Musichetta trade brightly colored drinks, each sipping and smacking their lips before rating the concoctions. He watches as they lean down to simultaneously kiss Dr. Joly on each cheek before the three partners dissolve into a tangle of snuggles. 

"Didn't think you'd make it, dude!" Bahorel throws himself against Grantaire and the two men playfully grapple like wild stags until Feuilly hollers at them to stop bumping the table.

Grantaire nurses a sore shoulder as he flops down in one of the chairs closest to Courfeyrac's head and Bahorel moves on to distract his ~boyfriend~ from whatever deep conversation Feuilly is having with Enjolras.

Enjolras is engrossed in their discussion, his book forgotten, and his head tilts closer to his table companion's and his lips move quickly in his responses. Grantaire watches for only a moment before his attention is drawn to the pitiful display pouting up at him.

"Hey there, buddy. How are you doin'?"

Courfeyrac sighs and flops one of his hands weakly at Grantaire's face, knuckles grazing his stubbly cheek, and his brown eyes blink blearily underneath tear-wet eyelashes, "Never better..."

Grantaire chuckles and shakes his head, the lightest blush tickling at his cheeks from the intimacy of that touch- and while he knows that Courfeyrac is handsy and lovey like this with all of his friends- he can't help but melt a bit at the attention.

Joly gives up on poking his dramatic friend into getting up, so instead he leans back in his chair and raises his glass in a silent toast to Musichetta as she is whisked away with Jehan and Bossuet to the dance floor in a flourish of laughter.

The doctor's dark eyes are sparkling, and he looks so much younger like this.

Éponine dashes over to their table, pausing only to catch her breath and grin her most feral grin down at Courfeyrac, "Courf, please don't tell me I just wasted $20 to convince the DJ to play only Lady Gaga and Rihanna for the next hour for you. C'mon!" 

Courfeyrac throws an arm over his face in despair but isn't allowed to wallow in his sadness for too long as Bahorel easily lifts him right up and throws him over his shoulder. Startled shrieks quickly dissolve into giggles, and the whole mood of the group brightens like the first rays of sunshine peeking through storm clouds.

Grantaire trails after before he's pulled into the fray of dancing bodies, and he is so happy that he agreed to come with.

 

 


 Enjolras 


It is too dark to read, too hot to curl up in his jacket, too loud to hold a proper conversation, and Grantaire is far too distracting to focus on anything else.

Grantaire performs a strange interpretative dance to a song about chains and whips and air sex, and he's caught in a glowing red beam from an overhead light, and his eyes are closed, head tilted back, smiling. 

Through a crowd of friends and strangers, he's...impossible to ignore.

Enjolras does not stare.

Enjolras is too busy babysitting his friend's abandoned drinks and ignoring Grantaire.

Dr. Joly keeps him company over the next few hours as evening darkens to the heady clutches of night- the doctor's chronic pain soothed best with a strong drink and sloppy, giggling lap dance from both of his lovers.

Even Enjolras can't hold back a grin when Bossuet topples over and takes down Marius and Marius' nachos in one great heap of limbs and cheese- both men uninjured in all ways except pride.

Courfeyrac joins the seated men for the first time since first going out onto the dance floor hours earlier, glistening with sweat and glitter (how did he always manage to get covered in glitter?), and he sidles right up and against Enjolras' side.

His voice is hoarse from singing, but the blond can still hear him over the steady bass beat of the speakers, "Has he texted back yet?"

Enjolras shakes his head as he offers his own glass of water to his friend, frowning when at first the man declines it in favor of slamming back a shot that was definitely not his to begin with.

"That wasn't yours, Courf. You should never drink from a glass that isn't yours!" His chastising is met with the saddest smile Courfeyrac has ever given him, and the smaller man hiccups as he nuzzles his face against Enjolras' shoulder.

Bahorel's roaring laughter catches their attention for a moment, the rambunctious man dead lifting Grantaire up and over his head in the middle of the dance floor.

On the DJ stage in the foreground, Jehan, Musichetta, and Cosette have commandeered the karaoke machine- the girls both wielding microphones and singing falsetto while Jehan harmonizes with their flute.

The energy in the club is at its peak and Courfeyrac says exactly what Enjolras is thinking.

"It's not the same without him. I know it's stupid...it's just been like, a day...but still."

"Not stupid. I'm sure he misses us...misses you too."

"No, he doesn't."

Enjolras throws a sharp look towards his friend as Courfeyrac straightens up a bit, the smaller man's shoulders slouched against the hard back of the booth.

Before he can interrogate his friend as to why that thought would even cross his mind, the DJ croons out a call for couples' hour, slow dancing and dirty dancing, and before he thinks too hard about what he's doing, Enjolras tugs Courfeyrac out of the safety of their seat and towards the dance floor.

"Aw Enj, c'mon, you don't have to..."

"I want to."

Courfeyrac doesn't hesitate to secure his arms around the taller man's shoulders while the other's soft hands curl at his waist, an appropriate distance from being considered uncouth.

A buzz of electric guitar begins the next song and Courfeyrac rests his cheek against Enjolras' shoulder as they begin to sway.

 


'You'll be the saddest part of me, a part of me that will never be mine



it's obvious



tonight is gonna be the loneliest



you're still the oxygen I breathe



I see your face when I close my eyes



it's torturous



tonight is gonna be the loneliest...'


 

"He kissed me."

Enjolras, bless his heart, only hesitates for a moment before his hands lightly squeeze overtop Courfeyrac's shirt, enough so that Courfeyrac can feel the blunt ends of his nails through the fabric, "What?"

"After his breakdown in the exam room, I found him in the supply closet, and I sat with him because he was having a panic attack..."

Brown eyes blink away unshed tears, and he continues murmuring his confession into Enjolras' sleeve, "I was petting his hair, you know how that calms him down-"

Enjolras nods minutely, listening.

"W-well...he just...he kissed me."

"Oh."

And I kissed him back. And then he pulled away and said, 'I'm sorry' and left."

"Oh."

Courfeyrac sniffles and his arms tremble where they locked around Enjolras' neck, standing on tippy toes to press close. He is radiating heat and sadness and Enjolras feels a wet spot of snot against his shoulder. He holds on tighter. 

"Did you want him to kiss you, Fey?"

There is silence from the dark-haired man as the song continues.

 


'And I just keep on thinking how you made me feel better



And all the crazy little things that we did together



In the end, in the end, it doesn't matter



If tonight is gonna be the loneliest'


 

"Yeah..."

Enjolras doesn't speak, his mind far too busy mulling over this revelation, rolling it around behind his teeth. He typically doesn't pay much mind to his friend's romantic or sexual escapades- he's far too busy, of course.

Courfeyrac draws him out of his reverie with a whimper.

"I really wanted him to, and I-I can't help but think that maybe I took advantage of him...he was so upset, Enj...and I was so selfish, and I didn't even try to follow him when he left. And now..." Nothing is worse than Courfeyrac crying.

Absolutely nothing, and Enjolras' jaw hardens in a firm line as listens to his friend's teary voice nearly torn from grief. "Now he hates me."

Anyone else would have fought back at this, claimed that the very idea of Combeferre hating anything about Courfeyrac to be absurd, but Enjolras was Enjolras, and his approach to problem-solving is far more direct.

He fishes his cellphone out of his back pocket and squints at the screen in the difficult lighting. A few aggressive taps and the phone is held aloft to his ear, and after several rings it seems whoever is on the other line has answered.

"Yes, I'm perfectly fine. No, nothing is on fire. Combeferre-"

Courfeyrac's face pulls away from Enjolras' shoulder and his expression is a strange mix of horror and joy. The music's melody drowns out any protests that he might have at Enjolras' terrible idea.

"-do you hate Courfeyrac?"

Courfeyrac chokes and buries his face in his hands, both men no longer swaying along to the music. A pause as Combeferre must be answering, and Courfeyrac feels his stomach flip and he feels like he might be sick.

"That's what I thought. Thank you, goodnight."

Enjolras raises one elegant eyebrow and shoves his phone into his back pocket with an air of finality, "Combeferre says that he does not hate you."

"O-oh."

 


'You're still the oxygen I breathe



I see your face when I close my eyes



It's torturous



Tonight is gonna be the loneliest.'


 

Courfeyrac looks marginally less miserable, which Enjolras counts as a successful intervention.

The songs bleed into one another, next playing a soft ballad of unrequited love, and Enjolras braces himself to continue slow dancing when a stocky figure slips beside them amongst the throng of bodies.

"Mind if I cut in?"

Grantaire purrs and Enjolras blinks and then stares as a bead of sweat rolls from his dark sideburn and down the square cut of his jaw, glistening down scruff and a strong neck.

Sometime during the evening of dancing, Grantaire has forgone his flannel shirt for just the sleeveless tank underneath- and the dark ink of tattoos are visible where Enjolras' roaming eyes wander along the strong slope of the dark-haired man's shoulders. 

Enjolras wants to sink his teeth into that smooth, sweat-slicked flesh.

Courfeyrac interrupts this shameful fantasy with a quick swipe at any lingering tears in his eyes before flashing a sweet smile towards the newcomer. "Of course- I wouldn't keep Enj all to myself~!"

The blond grimaces and shakes his head, curls bouncing with the force, and opens his mouth to inform Grantaire that he was certainly not interested in dancing with him, when Grantaire chortles and breaks out a sharp grin.

"Oh shit, no- I wanted to dance with you, Courf! No offense, Apollo, but you have two left feet and look like you could use a drink."

His words are laced with spiked barbs and cushioned with the nickname that has Enjolras taking cold showers late at night.

Courfeyrac blinks once between the two men, blinks again when Enjolras doesn't immediately slap Grantaire, and then twirls in delight, twirling himself smoothly into Grantaire's open, deliciously strong-looking arms. "Well goodness me, I am popular tonight~ I'd love to, R. And Enjolras-"

With a gentler look to his friend, Courfeyrac whispers a little 'thank you' before he is waltzed away.

Grantaire's dancing experience and Courfeyrac's natural grace has the two dominating the dance floor, twirling further and dipping low; Grantaire grasps the smaller man's hips and Courfeyrac smoothly melts into each maneuver. 

Enjolras removes himself from the dancers and marches back to the booths.

Bahorel and Feuilly have taken over his former seat and are committed to exploring each other's tonsils. Éponine teaches Joly and Marius a new card game while Cosette, Bossuet, and Jehan play 'never have I ever' with shots. Musichetta is ordering a round of water for everyone from the bar, catching up on gossip with the Madame.

Enjolras is not in the mood to speak to anyone anymore, and excuses himself to the bathroom.

 


 Grantaire 


It's past one in the morning and Grantaire sidles up to Madame Houchelop's counter, steeling himself for his order- putting his focus into forming a complete sentence as the proprietor of the bar smoothly steps over and leans over with a friendly grin.

"Want your usual, sweetie?"

"Yes ma'am, I need an excuse to get away from those losers."

That earns him a throaty laugh and Grantaire inwardly cheers for retaining some sort of suavity in his overstimulated state. He has been dancing for hours and he isn't as young as he used to be.

"Coming right up~." Madame Houchelop calls and whirls around, taking only a few moments before delivering the requested drink with a flourish and a cute little umbrella perches against the rim.

Grantaire nods his thanks and lifts the cold glass to his lips as the lady of the house decides that to be the perfect moment to lean over the bar (bosom looking absolutely glorious from this angle) to whisper, "Blondie over there hasn't stopped staring since you've walked in~."

Grantaire chokes and sputters and manages to demolish any fleeting confidence while Madame Houchelop wipes away spewed drink from her cleavage and Courfeyrac, who seems to have materialized out of thin air, appears at his side, looking strangely upset again.

"H-hey buddy, I didn't see you there. You need a drink?"

Courfeyrac doesn't have to speak for Grantaire to know the answer- his radiance and energy from their previous fun and dancing has dimmed again to a moping ache, bright caramel eyes lack their usual sparkle, and even his little nose freckles seem sad.

Sad nose freckles crinkle as Courfeyrac's gaze narrows, eyeing the drink resting between Grantaire's hands.

"You shouldn't be drinking, Grantaire."

Oh.

Oh, shit. 

"Oh, shit. Courf, look- it's just, it's just coke. See? Just plain coke- Madame knows I'm sober." He offers his cup over as evidence to the smaller man, having nothing to hide as the other takes a tiny sip before his stance relaxes.

Grantaire sets the glass back down on the dark faded wood of the bar and nearly falls out of his chair when Courfeyrac literally looks like he is going to burst into tears, his expression twisted in shame.

"H-hey...come on, I understand. You're just looking out for me!"

"I'm s-sorry for assuming...I-I just saw you over here a-alone...and...a-and..."

"Shit, man, come here..." Grantaire slides fully off of his stool in order to place both hands on Courfeyrac's trembling shoulders, not quite initiating a hug because hugs make him break out in hives, but he gives the smaller man a squeeze and tries to keep the spirit light.

"Thank you. Now, c'mon- it's late, 'Chetta and the boys are getting ready to leave, and Bahorel and Feuilly look like they're ready to burst out of their clothes."

With a hand pressed to the small of Courfeyrac's back, Grantaire reaches to grab his glass of soda and chug it all down in one big gulp before instantly regretting doing that. His stomach grumbles in protest but fuck it- he's thirsty and not wasting a good soda.

Courfeyrac looks impressed at this feat though, which is way better than him looking sad.

The two make their way through the emptying club to where their friends are gathered and preparing for departure. 

Cosette's fingers fly over the screen of her phone, arranging for an Uber to pick up her, Éponine, Marius, and Courfeyrac, and informs the group that they need to keep an eye out for a 'purple minivan'.

Musichetta has a hard time letting go of Jehan and they are flushed a pretty pink when Bossuet manages to wrangle her off of them. Dr. Joly formally nods to each of them since sweaty handshakes and glittery hugs are gross and germy. 

Feuilly is saying his goodbye to Enjolras, who is already bundled up in his red winter jacket, and Bahorel approaches Grantaire with a terrifying gleam in his eyes. "You need to join my gym, man- your quads are ridiculous- it'd be an honor to work out with you." 

"Are you proposing to Grantaire, love?" Feuilly smoothly interrupts, one arm wrapping around the taller man's bicep and waggling his eyebrows from underneath his tweed Gatsby style hat as Grantaire breaks down into guffaws and Bahorel stammers out an explanation.

Composing himself, Grantaire manages to speak clearly while shaking hands with the men before they leave, "I have nothing more to offer, my good men, except for my ridiculous quads, but I will text you later when I've thought about it. Bye, guys~." 

Entwined with each other as they walk, Bahorel and Feuilly are the first to leave, and the BJM trio are soon to follow, and Éponine braves the outdoors before returning to confirm that there was indeed a 'purple minivan' outside and ready to take them home.

Enjolras hasn't said much since Grantaire stole away his dance partner, but Grantaire feels a little hurt that he seems to have already left without saying goodbye.

Like, he knows that they're not friends, barely even acquaintances, but he knew about Enjolras' shitty parents and shittier childhood, he had helped him edit parts of his Power Point presentation for work so that it was more aesthetically pleasing, and he knew that his favorite color is red. 

Fucking red.

Whatever.

Grantaire wistfully sniffs and sips at the leftover drinks that lay scattered across the tables, a jungle-juice mix of lukewarm water, flat soda, and apple juice (courtesy of Jehan, thank you Jehan).

He shuffles the drinks to the end of the table for an easier cleanup for Madame Houchelop, calls out his farewell to the club's patroness, and dons his discarded flannel shirt and then his ratty old leather jacket.

He is still a bit sweaty from dancing so the extra layers have him feeling stiff and reminding him of just how sore he'll be the next morning.

Grantaire's luck doesn't stop there of course, because as soon as he stumbles out of the side entrance to the tavern, a blast of winter wind nearly knocks him back onto his ass. 

"Fucking...shit fuck...god fuckin'..." He curses like a rotten teenager and ducks his chin down into the collar of his coat. The wind dies down but the bitter cold seeps through his exposed skin. Grantaire contemplates texting someone to come rescue him, but before his fingers can brave the journey from his front jacket pockets to his back jeans pocket, he hears voices.

More notably, he hears Enjolras and another voice.

Most notably, he hears Enjolras' voice raise in alarm as a condescending voice responds, followed by the sound of scuffling.

Grantaire doesn't think, doesn't breathe, and instead throws himself down the alley towards the commotion.

As he rounds a corner that leads to a dead-end, he collides knee-first into a trash bin which sends him flattening against the brick wall with a groan. Pained tears burn at his eyes, but he takes quick inventory of what the fuck is actually going on, as best he can in the semi-darkness of the alley, lit only by a flickering overhead light from a second-floor window.

Enjolras manages to look fierce and pissed even though he is the one backed into a corner, his stupidly huge textbook held out like he is threatening to bludgeon the stranger with it, and his thick red jacket mostly hides just how badly he is trembling.

Grantaire does not see any bruises or blood, which for now is acceptable, but he is nearly too late when Enjolras shouts, "Watch out!" and he sees movement out of the corner of his vision.

Grantaire ducks smoothly as a poorly aimed fist sails over his head, the aggressor grunting with the effort and cursing at the newcomer. "Fuck off, I got to him first."

His blood runs cold despite his heartbeat hammering in his chest.

Enjolras, that stupid, beautiful man, releases an indignant scoff, "Excuse me? You sir, are sorely mistaken--"

Grantaire can't move fast enough to stop the stranger as a backhanded slap whips Enjolras across the face and sends the blond man sprawling backwards, book dropping unceremoniously into a dirty puddle. The man advances upon him, growling, "Shut up, bitch. Do you ever fucking shut up?" 

Before the bully can lay another hand on the fallen man, Grantaire throws himself bodily against the advancing form and both men fall roughly to the ground. Grantaire pants and grunts as he uses all his weight to try and stay on top, anything to keep him away from Enjolras.

Grantaire straddles his legs and draws his fist back to deliver a devastating punch, knuckles connecting once, twice, three times with a crunch of nose, teeth, and temple. The man beneath him is finally still.

He's preparing for a fourth hit when a gentle tug at his elbow stops him, and Grantaire realizes where he is.

What he's done.

Who is touching him.

He doesn't fight when Enjolras hefts him up and off of the thoroughly bruised and bloodied man- alive unfortunately, but now taking a nice nap- and drags Grantaire back the way they both had come to the side entrance of the Taverne Corinthe.

Grantaire is surprised to see that Enjolras looks pissed, absolutely raging pissed, and he stumbles after him with numb obedience.

Madame Houchelop frowns when the two men re-enter her establishment and looks like she's ready to admonish them for not going home, but when she sees the blood on Grantaire's knuckles and Enjolras' split lip, she busies herself with passing the first aid kit over the counter.

"H-hey...hey, are you okay?" Grantaire is the first to speak, his voice rough as though he has been shouting, and he winces as Enjolras grinds an alcohol wipe rather firmly against a fresh knuckle abrasion.

The taller man refuses to make eye contact but softens his touch.

"I'm perfectly fine. My book took more damage anyways, and I have half a mind to go retrieve it."

As his hand is inspected for further damage, Grantaire frowns at Enjolras and presses, not giving up, "He fucking hit you, man, if I wasn't dumb enough to try to walk home, he could have done a lot worse!" The mere idea of the 'could have' is enough to make both men wince, and the heat of their touching skin causes Enjolras to withdraw as though burned.

His eyes narrow and Grantaire nearly weeps at the expression, torn between wanting to paint this gorgeous man and being terrified of him.

"I can handle myself just fine, Grantaire. Besides, you were in more danger of injuring yourself- stumbling down back alleyways at 2am, drunk, do you know how dangerous that is?"

Now it is Grantaire's turn to flash an aggravated look up at the blond, and he tries not to think too much about Enjolras' breath hitching as he spats out, "What? What the fuck? I'm not drunk! I haven't broken my sobriety- why the fuck would you think that?" He can't stop the flood of frustration swelling through his chest as his sore fingers curl against his leg.

Enjolras flares up and bristles in defense, his posture is ramrod straight and he thrusts his arm out to point back at the drinks stacked on the tables they had previously inhabited. "Don't think I wasn't watching you! You must have had four or five drinks at least, and you've been acting like a drunken fool all evening with how you danced!"

"Are you kidding me? If you had even bothered to take one moment out of your precious time tonight to come down from your cloud to /talk/ to me, you would have realized that everything I drank was fucking soda or water. Madame Houchelop has been helping me for an entire year to be able to fucking feel safe enough to come to a club with my /friends/ without worrying about the temptation of alcohol. But you were too busy judging me and Courf and everyone else because you're just stuck so far up your ass to bother to care!" 

Grantaire's shoulders heave with the effort of keeping his voice under control.

He refuses to yell, refuses to be the second man to yell at Enjolras out of anger tonight, but he sure as hell is not going to go down without a fight. This is too important to him.

"T-that guy fucking hit you and you're more worried about me fucking up my own life! That's so..."

"Stupid."

"Yeah...w-wait, what?"

Enjolras fucking smiles, his split lip leaking a bit of blood and staining his teeth, and he looks sad and hot and Grantaire loses all steam.

"Apollo, are you concussed? Is your brain rattled?"

Enjolras' demeanor dims a bit and his smile fades just as quickly as it appears, and his tongue worries at the cut before he answers.

Grantaire stares.

"I suppose that it is a bit stupid of me to have assumed your drunkenness when you literally punched that man to protect me."

"Three times."

"Yes, three times. I still think that was a bit overkill, but I think I owe you..."

Grantaire's eyebrows shoot up, nearly to his sweaty hairline, as Enjolras leans forward a fraction, lips blood red and grey eyes challenging.

"Thank you."

"H-huh?"

"I'm thanking you. Unless you'd rather yell at me more about how I misjudged your honor. Or if you'd rather tease me for not liking to dance. Or tell me that my book is better suited to lay in ruin outside than being worth reading."

It isn't until Enjolras' haughty expression turns soft- the sharp edges of his cheeks are lax, and his jaw isn't clenched- that Grantaire attempts to smile dazedly back. 

This has to be some strange dream, or he is actually dead in the alley, and this is his very strange and confusing hell, but Madame Houchelop is packing away the first aid kit and Enjolras is offering to walk Grantaire home.

Grantaire doesn't remember much else after that.

Well, he remembers his nose going numb from the cold, and he remembers how Enjolras goes up stairs two at a time, and he remembers how he lays alone in bed and is lost to senseless dreams of the 'could have' and bloody lips.

this chapter ended up being so much longer than I expected- but it was fun to write out! I won't always do shifting POV's but it made sense for me to do it here! I hope you all are enjoying so far- we're halfway through!

also not 48 hours passing before I realized I forgot the É in Éponine's name RIP

The big boss Daddy's come to visit- Cosette has a lovely time reminiscing with Jean Valjean while Enjolras fights for his life in a Zoom meeting with Javert.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


"Battle stations everyone! Ex-Con and Les Flics sighted, entering the facility via front door, and might I add, Ex-Con looking particularly dashing in a three-piece grey suit--"

"Feuilly, I thought we agreed on not using nicknames."

Despite the Chief's disapproving frown, the employees of the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic are already in motion- smoothly settling into place in the lobby and at the registration desk.

"Chief- please, I will only respond to Globe-Trotter for the day. You're the only one who didn't agree to use code names, and majority wins."

"Globe-trotter's right, Chief!"

"Yes, because it's a lot more efficient to call you 'Xena: Warrior Princess', Éponine."

"I'll report you to HR if you continue to mis-codename me!"

"My codename isn't HR, it's 'Mr. Centre'. Because I am the center of your lives!"

"More like the center of attention."

"Rude!"

"Globe-Trotter, can you tell me if Les Flic's hair is longer than mine? I need to always assert hair-dominance when he's around."

"Analyzing subject. Aaaand...it's close, but I still think that yours is longer, Sasha Flute. Your hair-dominance is noted."

"Thank you, Feui--I mean, Globe-Trotter."

"You're welcome. T-minus 30 seconds, Ex-Con and Les Flics have breached the facility proper. The hand off has been successful, Agent XXX aka my sexy muscle man--"

A bursting chorus of 'EW', 'GAY', and retching noises comes from behind him, but Feuilly is too busy watching his phone. Bahorel is on video chat, the security guard's device hidden in a coat pocket and facing outwards so his boyfriend can get a real-time view of the visitors.

"--as I was saying, Agent XXX has both targets en route."

"This is ridiculous."

"C'mon Chief, play nice."

"That's right, listen to Rapunzel or I'll be tempted to switch your codenames around."

"I happen to like 'Rapunzel' very much, for your information!"

"I think it's cute as fuck, babe."

"Thank you, Xena: Warrior Princess."

"Where's Dr. Hippocrates?"

"Last time I checked, he was finishing up with his patient- Sasha Flute, on standby for check-out!"

"Would everyone please /be quiet/! They're here!"

The double doors to the clinic open and in step Ex-Con in his dashing three-piece grey suit and Les Flics with his signature scowl and no-nonsense binder in hand. Agent XXX hands off the visitors with a flourishing and very unnecessary bow. He clearly wants to stay, but his walkie-talkie buzzes with a request for him to report up on the second floor of the main hospital to come see the therapy dogs.

Therapy dogs always take priority, and he knows that Globe-Trotter will understand.

Six pairs of eyes blink back at the two newcomers, and Enjolras is the first to break the stand-off by approaching the Hospital Clinical Business Lead and Hospital Corporate Business Lead and shaking their hands in turn.

Jean Valjean aka Ex-Con is as tall as Bahorel and just as thick, and he clasps Enjolras' hand with both of his own much larger ones and smiles warmly. Opposite him, straight-backed, lean and mean, eagle-eyed Javert aka Les Flics allows one perfunctory squeeze of the offered hand before letting it drop.

"Mr. Valjean, Mr. Javert, thank you both for taking time to visit the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic. I know that we have a busy day ahead of us, so let's not waste any more time. If you would just follow me--" 

Interrupting Enjolras with a gentle yet firm hand to the younger man's shoulder, Jean Valjean's eyes are twinkling like stars as he sweeps his gaze over the employees gathered round. "Now, now, there is no need for haste, Enjolras, and no need for such formality! I haven't visited the clinic since its very first days in practice- when it was just you, that tall fellow with the glasses, and dear Courfeyrac and Dr. Joly!"

Javert grunts and raises an eyebrow, clearly already over his partner's nonsense this morning, "I must disagree, sir. We are here for business and our Zoom meeting begins at 9am on the dot, not a minute to spare." Jean Valjean tuts like a mother hen and ignores him, and instead throws out his arms upon spotting the other blonde in the group. 

"Do my eyes deceive me? Cosette?"

Cosette is practically bursting with delight and nearly knocks the hulking man back into a lobby-seat with her returned embrace.

"Mr. Madeleine? You're Jean Valjean? If I had known, I would've reached out a long time ago! It's been so long since I've seen you!"

Now it was Javert's and Enjolras' turn to be confused, both men sharing a mutual 'what the fuck' look before realizing that establishing any sort of comradery is absolutely obscene so they quickly look back to the hugging duo.

It is Éponine who speaks first, reaching out when her girlfriend pulls away, and happily shakes the newly identified man's hand. "Nice to meet you, Mr. M! Or should I say, Mr. V!" 

"Can someone please explain to me how you know each other? I'm supposed to be the one who knows everything about everyone!" Courfeyrac chimes in, pouting just a bit as Jehan pats his shoulder in support.

His usual brightness is still a little more forced; Combeferre is still on his medical leave, and the office feels like a piece of its' soul is absent.

Cosette clasps her hands together and smiles, spinning around to face her co-workers, "Madeleine- well, now Valjean I suppose- and I used to work at the pediatrics clinic up on the fourth floor! He was an MA, like you Feuilly, and I was just starting out with registration! Oh, you always were so kind to me! Ép, you remember when my car was stalling and you were in class and your phone was turned off- and it was Madeleine who offered to not only bring me home, but he helped fix the car!" 

Through her glowing review of him, Jean Valjean has half of his blushing face hidden behind a hand, and he shakes his head once she's done. "No, no, madame, you are too kind. I know a good person when I see one, and I know you'd do the same for me."

Éponine guffaws at the idea of Cosette fixing engines, but then the image of her girlfriend wearing overalls and smeared with oil and grease and leaning over a sports car is enough to shut her right up. She switches gears and is the next to speak.

"How about we take Mr. V back to the clinical office- Dr. Joly should be just about finished with his patient and would love to catch up with you too. That way Chief and Les Flics over there can get their busy corporate business taken care of!" 

Javert, whose scowl has somehow morphed into a mega-scowl, pointedly ignores Éponine and pretends like he doesn't hear his given nickname.

Enjolras sighs and soldiers on, too much resting on his performance with his presentations and meetings today to allow their usual shenanigans to rile him up, and he nods to his friends. "Javert and I will be in the corporate office, as Éponine so succinctly explained. Please do not disturb us, but if it is an emergency--"

Here he throws a quick warning look at Courfeyrac, who considers most everything an emergency, and ignores the dark-haired man's protests. 

"--if it's an emergency, Feuilly is next in charge."

Feuilly fist bumps Jehan and the team disperses.

The timing works out beautifully as Dr. Joly's patient approaches Jehan's desk, who both launch into a fast-paced conversation in ASL to set up their follow up appointment in the clinic. Cosette shovels as much candy as she can into Jean Valjean's hand, and even convinces Javert to take one, before she sits at her desk and prepares to check-in the next round of patients.

Courfeyrac trails after Éponine and Feuilly, who lead Jean Valjean, down the hallway to congregate with the doctor- but not before giving Enjolras a quick 'you all good?' look.

Despite both Enjolras and Combeferre nay saying his attempts at mind-reading, Courfeyrac's smile widens when Enjolras seems to understand and gives him a little nod of his head for 'yes, thank you'.

Despite Enjolras' confidence on the outside, Courfeyrac knows just how stressed his best friend has been in preparation for this meeting, and how much rests on his very capable shoulders.

This is Enjolras' chance to showcase the value that the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic provides for not only the community at large, but monetarily proves its financial and logistical worth to the hospital. Courfeyrac has seen the power point slides and the infographics and knows their worth outside of numbers and charts.

The door to the corporate office slides shut with a rather firm 'click', locking away Enjolras and Javert and their Zoom applications, and at 9am sharp, Courfeyrac prays to whatever higher power will listen to a worried, gorgeous, pansexual man such as himself for his friend's safe return.

Combeferre would have something clever to say at this point, probably an anecdote about hard-work, and Courfeyrac would respond with an even more clever joke. Combeferre would blush pink up to his ears and he would huff out a laugh and Courfeyrac would laugh with him and poke at his cheek and Combeferre would bat away his hand and that would turn into a proper tickle fight, and everything would be just a little bit better and...

and...

damn, he misses him.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 

"It was truly a pleasure catching up with you all, well...Enjolras, I hope that the next time we are visiting, Javert shares your company!" In a mock stage-whisper, Jean Valjean leans closer and blocks the side of his mouth as if to keep a secret between him and the staff away from their subject of teasing, "He usually doesn't like to share." 

He winks as he receives a variety of response- Javert chokes on the piece of candy he has reluctantly accepted from Cosette and refuses to let anyone help him catch his breath which leaves him red-faced and fuming, Cosette hides a giggle behind her hand and gives the larger man one last goodbye hug, and Enjolras can barely hide his twitching eyelids and simply stares at the grinning clinical lead.

Eight hours.

Eight hours, no breaks, no meals, no outside human contact besides himself and Mr. Javert.

Mr. Javert who guides each topic with a grueling pace that even Enjolras finds draining. And Enjolras is notorious for his all-nighters and marathon lobbying.

He would kill for coffee. Maybe even a hug, but coffee sounds better.

The past hours have been spent with Javert's supervisor, his supervisor's supervisor, a manager of all regional hospitals within the company, director of business development, other specialists' who reside in the hospital, and even the fucking mayor in several back-to-back virtual meetings.

All have questions, all demand numbers and proof and Enjolras has prepared for this day for weeks and it's finally over and Javert is practically corps-style marching out of the building with Jean Valjean in tow, calling out his excitement for the upcoming office holiday party.

Courfeyrac, flushed with happiness at convincing the big bosses to come to the office holiday party, claps his hands once to motivate the staff to finish up their work duties before their after-work plans commence. 

"Good work, team! Now I know you are all positively dying to know how the Chief's presentation went, but let's give the man a breather. Remember- for anyone who can, Bahorel is hosting the self-defense class in the hospital gym at 6:30pm! Otherwise, I love you all and will see you probably this weekend."

Calls of 'love you too, Fey' echo back and the lobby is quickly cleared from chatter and movement with the exception of Enjolras and Dr. Joly.

Glorious quiet for a long moment lulls Enjolras to let his guard down enough to fall back onto a seat and rub roughly at his temples. Slow movement comes up next to him as Joly positions his wheelchair next to the blond.

The doctor remains silent for a few moments longer, fingers idly massaging along his own knee, and speaks only when Enjolras' hands fall down away from his face.

"I know I'm no Combeferre, but I'd like to know how that all went."

Dark grey eyes narrow and Enjolras frowns at his friend's choice of words, and he wants to push back at the implication that his presence and insight is less important than anyone else's', but Joly holds up a hand to stop him.

"I know, I just know how you value his opinion on matters like this. I'll do my best to be the stand-in 'guide' today." Enjolras only relents in his glare when Joly smiles encouragingly and nods at him to continue. The taller man tries to hold back a sigh, not wanting to appear fatigued or weak, and in the process only trembles slightly and clasps his hands tightly over his lap.

"I know I could have done better with the slide that shows the number of patients requiring financial assistance and the ease of which they obtain it, I should have come up with more than just two ways on how to improve the system. I fear it wasn't enough."

Dr. Joly doesn't interrupt the business lead as he allows himself to express his doubts, but he leans forward to make eye contact when it's his turn to speak. Enjolras meets his sharp gaze- desperately wanting to trust but not yet dropping his defenses.

"I'd love to someday hear about the two ways you plan to address that concern- perhaps we can try to implement something with our connections to the billing department?"

Enjolras visibly relaxes, only minutely, but enough that his shoulders are no longer as rigid as a brick wall and his smile reveals his exhaustion. "Thank you, Joly. Perhaps next week we can hold a department meeting to discuss. How- how was Mr. Valjean's visit?"

"Perfectly pleasant- he's an interesting fellow, just as outspoken and complex as he was the first time we met. Do you remember how he had Combeferre cornered in the lab, discussing all the different ways blood could be used in food? Our poor friend couldn't look at a vial sample or a sandwich for a week!" 

This had both men chuckling softly before subsiding into a far more comfortable silence. 

Towards the back of the office, they can hear their coworkers discussing what they expect to happen at the self-defense class Courfeyrac has lovingly bullied them into attending the day prior.

Naturally, news of Enjolras' run-in with the mugger after their evening at Taverne Corinthe spread like wildfire throughout the group text, and Bahorel arranged to teach his friends a thing or two about how to avoid getting smacked around by bullies.

Enjolras, with his split lip still a bit puffy, was the first to voice his disinterest, which was a very pointless thing to do when his friends are as aggressively lovely as they are caring and worrisome about his wellbeing. Which is...fine...but he's allowed to be annoyed.

"I suppose we should get ready. How about you get some water to drink, and a bite to eat though, okay? Just because Javert is more machine than man, doesn't mean that you are too."

"I'm fine."

A dark eyebrow raises in response, to which Enjolras does his best impression of 'I'm fine' by standing up, swaying, and groaning with a rising headache, and Dr. Joly now has to personally escort his stubborn friend to the break room and then back to his office.

Enjolras pouts between bites of a granola bar and sips of water, stared down from both Joly and now Courfeyrac who gets caught up on how the meeting between the corporate leads played out. An email with the review and results from all their hard work is expected to come in sometime by the end of the following week.

He tries to fight nausea at the very thought, with so much depending on how he did, and all of his effort potentially being the catalyst for the downfall of not only the clinic, but his friends and their patients.

Everything they fight for.

Courfeyrac breaks his downward spiral by stripping completely naked in order to change into more 'appropriate' workout attire.

Neither of his companions bat an eye at his unashamed nudity, but once the smaller man's bare butt comes a few inches too close to his face, Joly excuses himself to finish up his own work before meeting the others down in the gym.

Enjolras doesn't have a change of clothes, so he wearily agrees to wear an old, oversized pair of scrubs from the supply closet, and once he is deemed hydrated and fed to Courfeyrac's standards, he is led out of the clinic and through the sterilized halls of the St. Denis Hospital.

His mind feels fried and for the first time in a long time, he longs for the comfort of his bed, but his friends depend on him to show up.

Courfeyrac glances over his shoulder and gives him a gentler smile and squeezes his hand, encouraging him without needing to speak a word.

They rely on him to show up.

Enjolras hopes that he's done enough for them; hopes that he is enough for them.

 

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

 

"Listen up seven's, a ten is speaking!" Courfeyrac obnoxiously announces as he leads Enjolras into the gym, thankfully only inhabited at this late hour by members of the clinic...and Grantaire. 

"Boo, you whore!"

Courfeyrac ignores Éponine's jab and sets his duffel bag against the mirrored wall- pausing to check himself out. Brown eyes are still a bit more bloodshot than he'd like- no amount of eye drops can fix fighting back tears- and his smile is reminiscent of a pageant show beauty queen, all teeth and not quite meeting the eyes. 

That doesn't stop him from shaking out his hair and holding up his chin- banishing the sad feeling that threatens to bubble up in his stomach.

The last thing anyone needs is a mopey, weepy Courfeyrac. They all have dealt with his less-than-stellar emotions enough over the past few days and he needs to do better.

At least, that's what he tells himself.

"Yo, Courf-man, would you stop checking yourself out and get your ass in line?"

Bahorel's command is met with a sassy middle finger and Courfeyrac takes his sweet ol' time swaggering back over to where the rest of his companions loiter and peer around at the machines and workout gear surrounding their cleared area.

Out of their entire group, Bahorel, Grantaire, and Cosette are the only ones who have ever properly stepped foot inside a gym, and it shows.

Bahorel, thick arms distracting all of the gays with nothing more than a slip of a tank top keeping his chest at bay, enjoys powerlifting and pullups, and Feuilly is already sweating just watching his boyfriend take charge. Grantaire, who honestly everyone is surprised even showed up, has a boxer's build and years of ballet experience, and he shifts from foot to foot with a comfortable ease. Cosette, with her yoga pants and endless energy, can hold a handstand for over ten minutes and doesn't even break into a sweat with an intense cardio exercise.

Courfeyrac, to his credit, looks hot in the booty shorts he deemed most appropriate for this after-work group event. Unfortunately, in the dead of winter, he is shivering cold and clings to Jehan to try and steal their body heat as Bahorel begins his instruction for the evening.

To their credit, Jehan wraps both arms around their ex-boyfriend and presses a gentle kiss to the top of his head, which is enough to calm Courfeyrac down enough to actually pay attention. 

"Alright my dudes, dudettes, and dudetheys, the job of keeping your dumb asses out of harm's way comes down to me. As Enjolras and Grantaire have graciously demonstrated-"

Grantaire signs a few obscene remarks, Jehan's handiwork, and Enjolras rolls his eyes.

"-no matter how much effort you put into creating a safe and healthy community, there are always going to be assholes who want to hurt us just because we're not afraid to be us."

"Beautifully said, my love!" Feuilly catcalls.

"Thanks, sexy."

"Eugh," says Enjolras.

"Anyways, first you're going to split up into teams of two- but you can't group up with your boyfriend or girlfriend. I'm going to walk you through self-defense maneuvers that will be helpful in the real-life event of an assault. The goal is to defend, not to attack, and most importantly to get /away/ from your opponent and to safety."

A pointed glance to Grantaire and Grantaire's bruised knuckles earns him another flash of sign language telling him to 'fuck off'.

Bahorel brays a laugh and steals a kiss from Feuilly before calling out for them to form their groups while he sets up some 'epic battle music' to play from his phone's speaker.

Chaos commences and no one is safe.

Cosette snatches Courfeyrac and Jehan lays claim to Joly.

Enjolras is tired and foolish and takes half a step towards Grantaire, half expecting the dark-haired man to be reaching out to claim him as a buddy, but blinks in surprise as the other man ruffles Éponine's hair and tugs her to the side to make room for the others.

An uncomfortable roiling in his stomach freezes him in place and he shakes his head at the lack of self-control, at the slip up in judgement.

Of course, Grantaire doesn't want to partner with him, Enjolras is the whole reason that he has bruised knuckles. Is the reason that his friends have to spend their after-work hours doing this, and it has been such a long day and Enjolras is convinced that he's letting them down.

Feuilly steps up next to him and the two men make eye contact in the mirror that they face, the shorter man's eyebrows knitting together in concern at the blond's rather pinched face. Enjolras sighs quickly through his nose and forces a gentle smile. "All good. Thank you, Feuilly."

"You know, if you're too tired, you can sit this out. Out of everyone you've had the longest day..."

"Of course not, everyone worked hard. And anyways, are you just worried I'll kick your butt?"

That earns him a wild grin from Feuilly and his friend cuffs him on the shoulder before they take their place amongst the group.

Everyone is spaced out in order to avoid running into one another, and a song that sounds like war-drums and bugles blasts from the Bluetooth speaker Bahorel has set up at the front of the room. The leader of their self-defense class cracks his knuckles and observes his students.

"Let's get down to business..."

"To defeat the homophobes!"

"Jehan, you took the words right out of my mouth!"

Jehan gives a pleased smile, hidden against Joly's shoulder, and the doctor fondly pats their cheek. Bahorel continues his instruction with his booming voice keeping everyone's attention with surprising ease- Enjolras notes that perhaps he should ask for the burly man to consider presenting at rallies with them.

"Alright, I need everyone to stand within arms-reach of their partner. For the first round, let's have our defensive side be Fey, Joly, Ép, and Enjolras, which means the attacking side is Cosette, Jehan, R, and my baby."

This is met with pained groans, and Feuilly blushes happily and blows his boyfriend a kiss. It's awful and sweet and Enjolras fights every fiber in his being from allowing himself to glance over at Grantaire.

"Attackers, please place your hands on the other person's shoulders. Defense, watch me carefully."

Bahorel demonstrates a movement that involves a quick arm movement, a twist, and a jump back, and it takes a few tries before the group gets it right. The teams switch and the others practice the new move.

An hour passes and they learn several useful techniques, and the serious nature of the lesson is devolving into the zoomies.

Courfeyrac has made the unfortunate mistake of underestimating Cosette and has his wrist twisted before the petite blonde literally flips him over her shoulder and (gently) thumps him onto the ground. With an 'oof', he plays dead on the ground until Feuilly has to come convince him to stand up and regain some of his dignity.

Jehan, ever the pacifist, and Joly, deciding he'd rather not trigger any pain flares, instead choreograph a dance that mimics the moves that Bahorel teaches, which earns them a pass for their silly behavior.

Éponine and Grantaire are full-out wrestling now, shouting obscenities and name-calling like siblings, and Éponine bites at the man's arm which has her in a head lock, which causes Grantaire to shout and drop her, giving her the opportunity to pin him. Cosette calls out a triumphant 'One...Two...Three! And point goes to Ép!'. 

Grantaire's shirt has ridden up, exposing a thick torso and soft expanse of belly, and Enjolras feels as though his skin is on fire when he catches a glimpse of dark hair leading to the band of the other man's sweatpants. Grantaire's arms flex and his hair is mused, and he's panting heavily as he lays star-fished on the floor mat.

Enjolras doubles down on his focus and ignores the pounding heartbeat in his ears until all he can do is move and respond to Bahorel's shouted instruction, happy for the monotony of movement for just a while.

Feuilly and Enjolras end up being the only two still taking any of this seriously and have perfected the moves best advised to remove unwanted hands and give opportunities to flee from danger. Enjolras swipes some loose curls off of his forehead before taking Feuilly's offered hand, and he allows himself to be pulled up from where his partner has knocked him to the ground with a well-placed kick. 

"How do you feel, Enj?" Feuilly pulls Enjolras in for a quick hug.

"Empowered. You?" Enjolras nods and looks like he means it.

"Sweaty. But good. This was good. Bahorel's gonna want to do this again, I think."

With a fond smile, Feuilly turns to watch as Bahorel wrangles each of their friends into a big hug and calls for their lesson to officially come to an end for the night.

It's almost 8pm and everyone looks like their long day is finally catching up to them.

Enjolras allows Bahorel to squeeze him within an inch of his life, and his cheeks are tinged pink once he's released from his friend's strong grasp. He mindfully disregards Grantaire and his rumpled shirt and his bright eyes, doesn't pay attention as the other man kisses Jehan's offered hand and hollers back his goodbye to Dr. Joly.

His attention is stolen when Courfeyrac and the girls crowd him, Cosette and Éponine arm in arm while Courfeyrac winces and rolls his shoulders. Cosette speaks first, her voice quiet in order to keep their conversation more private.

"So, I was thinking, one of our favorite bakeries is still open, the one right down the street. Well, I wanted to stop by and buy some sweets and give them to Combeferre, maybe stop by his apartment tomorrow..."

The mention of their absent friend's name immediately sobers the group's energy, and Courfeyrac visibly deflates and bites his lip. Enjolras' very bones feel bruised and he's pretty sure his eye has started twitching again. 

"I can go with."

"Nope. You're going to go home and go the fuck to sleep, boss. You look dead on your feet."

Éponine's tone gives no room for argument, but Enjolras' favorite hobby is arguing.

"I look perfectly fine."

"No, Enj, you need to get home. I know what Ferre likes from the bakery, I'll go with tonight and he'll probably be okay to see Cosette tomorrow."

Courfeyrac speaks up and nudges the toes of his shoes against the ground, and Cosette rubs his back with a soothing hum of approval. "Perfect. Enjolras, I'll text you if we need anything, but you really should go home." 

Enjolras isn't given the chance to fight back because Grantaire decides that it's the best time to sidle up next to him with his hands shoved in the pockets of his paint-stained sweatpants. "You're not planning on taking the train home, are you? You literally look like you're going to fall over."

This earns him a scowl from the blond, who whirls around with more force than he intends, and he nearly loses his balance.

He's tired...so fucking tired.

Courfeyrac reaches out to try and grasp at the sleeve of his scrub shirt, but Enjolras crosses his arms over his chest and plants his feet firmly on the ground to keep from swaying.

"Why do you even care?"

Éponine's eyebrows raise and she nearly bites back at the rather coarse, accusing question from their lead, but Grantaire lifts up both hands in an act of surrender and steps back to put much-needed distance between their heated exchange.

"I was just going to offer you a ride. It's snowing outside and we kinda live in the same direction from the hospital. But you have made yourself loud and clear and obviously don't accept the offer, which is like, fine I guess."

Grantaire sucks a breath in through his teeth before puffing out his cheeks with the exhale, but he allows his eyes to meet Enjolras, who is looking at him with a twist of confusion and slight frustration, and he is so pretty that Grantaire just stares back.

Courfeyrac watches the two men stare at one another and doesn't realize that he is holding his breath until Cosette clears her throat and announces that she is going to collect her things and get going to the bakery. Éponine tears herself away before she disrupts the fragile, unspoken conversation that is occurring between Enjolras' bloodshot grey eyes and Grantaire's darkened green- though the temptation to holler at her boss is brewing under the surface.

"Fine." Enjolras is the first the break their stare-off, and he turns to give his best friend a stiff hug before stomping off to grab his own bag from the corner of the room. Grantaire blinks once in surprise and scrambles to grab his own tattered backpack, car keys fumbling in between sore fingers.

Bahorel and Feuilly have called out their goodbyes and are hand-in-hand leaving the gym. Jehan has a late-night music therapy session with a few clients in the inpatient unit of the hospital, so they and their beloved flute depart to the elevator. Dr. Joly leaves alongside Éponine, Cosette, and Courfeyrac, the four discussing their weekend plans and asking for updates on their attempts to reach out to Combeferre.

Enjolras and Grantaire walk out to the parking lot together but with a few feet of distance between them, Enjolras silent and brooding, Grantaire unable to stop from whistling a jaunty holiday carol. 

"Your carriage awaits, dear sir."

"..."

What can he say, he's a gentleman. Grantaire opens the door for his carpool buddy and doesn't even flinch when he's given a distrustful look as he closes the door once Enjolras is tucked away in the passenger seat.

As he jogs around the front of the car, snowflakes continue to flutter on cool whips of the breeze, and he first has to scrape off the top layer of snow from the car's windshield. He tries to not squirm as he feels the other staring at him, watching him, and he's just grateful that he had the common sense to turn his car's engine on to allow the heat to keep Enjolras comfortable.

Grantaire isn't the kind of guy to go out of his way to make people comfortable. What the fuck is he doing?

Once the windshield is deemed acceptable for travel, Grantaire shoves the scraper onto the backseat and huddles into the driver's seat- his cheeks are ruddy and chapped from the cold, and he tries to huff warm breath against his trembling hands.

"Here, let me..."

Enjolras, with his goddamn long fingers, warm and slender and as beautiful as the rest of him, hands that Grantaire dreams of, curling and clutching and scratching and...well, now they're carefully cradling his hands and rubbing them between his palms.

Fucking hell, this is better than sex.

Okay, not actually better than sex, but shit, he feels sparks.

Well, Grantaire might be feeling a little more enamored than normal because he's spent the past two hours watching Enjolras get thrown to the fucking ground and then get back up and do the same right back to Feuilly. And to be fair this has totally taken him by surprise, but he watches under half-lidded eyes while Enjolras warms his hands and flickers his gaze up to make sure that Grantaire doesn't mind.

He looks so serious, and he lets his touches linger against Grantaire's callouses and the scabs on his knuckles.

Neither man breathes and Enjolras' hands have stopped moving but haven't yet let go, and he blinks once, and Grantaire realizes just how easily he could kiss him.

It wouldn't take much to lean across the center console and tilt his head just so- Enjolras' full lips part and his eyes lower too. He almost looks like he's expecting something, and Grantaire swallows quickly and pulls his hands away.

"L-let's get going."

Grantaire is a coward.

He is a spineless, stupid coward, and Enjolras has the fucking audacity to kind of look disappointed, but then he straightens up and hardens his resolve and nods once in agreement. Those lovely hands are now firmly clasped on his lap and Enjolras resolutely keeps his gaze directed outside.

"Yes, lets."

The drive to Enjolras' apartment is quiet save for Mariah Carey's blasting vocals in 'All I Want for Christmas is You', which only serves to sour the mood since Grantaire is definitely not going to attempt to screech the high notes with current company present.

Out of the corner of Grantaire's peripheral vision he notices how his passenger slowly slumps lower in his seat, with his head bumping against the cool window, dozing peacefully. 

Enjolras looks like a fucking angel, and it takes all of Grantaire's willpower to keep his attention on driving carefully down the icy road.

The falling snow has developed into a proper winter storm by the time he parks as close to the door to the other's apartment complex as possible, and Enjolras hesitates for just a moment before daring to brave the cold and wind. He acts as though he's going to leave without a word, but before he opens the car door, he twists on his seat to face the driver.

His face is still so terribly serious, but Grantaire catches a hint of careful softness in those tired eyes.

"Thank you, Grantaire. Sincerely, you didn't have to do this, and...thank you."

Eloquent as always, his muse's tongue worries at the healing cut on his lip and Grantaire melts into a shy smile and shrugs.

"It's no problem, Apollo. Just get inside, and I'll wait to text you something for you to pick apart and argue over until tomorrow morning. Get some sleep."

Enjolras, without much fight left in him, dips his golden head in a nod and quickly escapes from the warmth of the car and into the storm.

Grantaire watches as he hustles inside before he groans and rubs at his face.

He is well and truly fucked, but in like, the worst way.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

9:15am From Ferre:   Hey

Courfeyrac, huddled under his 800 thread count blankets and half-awake, shrieks with delight at the unexpected text that greets him that next Saturday morning. Marius pauses in his kitchen banging and clanging but continues on after a moment.

Courfeyrac tends to make weird and loud noises at any given hour of the day, so this isn't out of the ordinary for his roommate.

9:18am To Ferre:   ! FERRE ! Hi! Good morning!!! :D How are you? I miss you! <3 Are you coming back to work??! ?I have so much to tell you omg 

He winces after thirty seconds pass without the message being 'read' by Combeferre, and he flops back against his pillows with a pained moan. 

Damnit. He's probably freaked the other man out with his dramatic texting, and he already regrets sending the 'heart' emoji.

9:20am To Ferre:   sorry, that was a lot! 

Courfeyrac shoves his phone away and hides himself back underneath his blankets and finds himself dozing off again when a familiar text-tone beeps. He feels terrified and stupid- it's Combeferre for goodness's sake- he's been best friends with this man since elementary school. 

That thought still doesn't stop his heart from racing as he carefully lifts his phone back up to read the message.

9:56am From Ferre:   It's okay. Can we talk Monday morning? Before work? I'll be in the office.

A wave of nausea washes over him and Courfeyrac whimpers, but he fights back tears as he types his response quickly.

9:57am To Ferre:   of course :) see you then!

This sucks.

This is the equivalent of the very worst thing to have ever happened ever, and for the first time ever in his whole life, Courfeyrac dreads going in to work on Monday.

lol each chapter gets longer and longer, but I'm having too much fun writing! I hope you all are enjoying thus far! :)

Combeferre is a giant fucking nerd and Courfeyrac is Enamored.Grantaire wishes he could be so lucky and is left alone in the bathroom.

Here there be smooches of many kinds ;)


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


It doesn't seem possible, but Courfeyrac's heart rate has somehow managed to quicken from a canter to a gallop upon entering the darkened lobby of the Specialty Diagnostics Center.

The wall clock's steady 'tick...tock...tick...tock' fills the otherwise empty space, indicating an atrociously early 6:15am. 

Even Enjolras isn't at work yet.

Courfeyrac, who is a stranger to any hour earlier than 8am on any given day (let alone a freakin' Monday), startles out of his cycling thoughts when the metallic groan of the closing door ushers him to move forward.

Forward towards the man whom he misses so desperately.

The man who is either going to berate Courfeyrac for just how poorly he has screwed up everything and how badly he hates him, or even worse- he will let him down in the nicest way possible and break Courfeyrac into a million little pieces. 

The weekend has passed far, far too quickly, and the previous night, Marius had attempted to distract his roommate from his dreaded Monday morning confrontation with all of his favorite things: clubbing, dancing, singing with the car windows down, hell, Marius had even offered to let Courfeyrac see his freckly butt to try and distract him, but it was all in vain.

Courfeyrac barely slept and now his hair feels sticky from going heavy-handed with his curling mousse and he hasn't had any caffeine, yet he feels as though he will jitterbug right out of his skin with every passing second.

 


Can we talk Monday morning? Before work? I'll be in the office 


 

Perhaps Combeferre has forgotten about their agreed upon meeting, maybe he's decided that he needs a few more days or weeks or months or lifetimes to stay away and Courfeyrac can't even blame him because no matter how many times his friends have reassured him, the ugly guilt weighing in his chest is louder.

Each footstep that leads him further into the clinic feels like a step towards the executioner's block. Enjolras would have his head for his dramatics, but Courfeyrac is too caught up in his thoughts to enjoy his cleverness.

If he can ever get Combeferre to at least talk to him again, he'd consider that a victory.

To have sharp grey eyes, beautiful with little flecks of brown that Courfeyrac would tease matched his own, crinkle at the corners as he laughs that dorky little closed-lip laugh, to get to hear his voice murmuring his name in endearment or exasperation, to have any bit of Combeferre back is more than he can ask for. 

More than he deserves.

Woo boy, this is not the time nor place for a pity party.

His breath is almost haggard, but Courfeyrac quickly hustles into the corporate office and tosses his leather messenger bag onto his seat. He is about to search for his cellphone to see if he has received any last-minute texts cancelling this early morning rendezvous when his eyes spot a bright pink sticky note on his desktop that he's pretty sure wasn't there on Friday.

Sometimes Grantaire leaves little notes and doodles for him to find the next morning, but the janitor had the night off last Friday- he was at Bahorel's self-defense class.

Courfeyrac peels the square paper from the desk and brings it up to read, mouthing the words in confusion.

 

'How warm is a janitor's closet?'

Huh? He flips the note over, an arrow indicating to do so, and reveals the answer.

'Broom temperature!'

 

Huh.

What isn't confusing is the pun, Courfeyrac will give the pun-giver props, it's a bit tame but still clever.

Courfeyrac is mostly discombobulated by the familiar handwriting said pun is written in.

This isn't his own sprawling, loopy cursive of course, nor is it Enjolras' barely legible chicken scratch. Éponine uses all capital letters when she stabs at paper and Cosette's scribbles are barely any better than Enjolras'. Feuilly writes in a neat yet scrunched font, and Jehan's cursive is beautiful but filled with hearts and flowers and music notes. Dr. Joly prefers to type on a tablet, and Grantaire has never left jokes or puns.

In perfect, precise letters, evenly spaced and deliberately drawn, Courfeyrac would know Combeferre's handwriting on sight.

What the heck? 

Was he dreaming? Courfeyrac pinches his arm and winces at the sting. Okay, not dreaming.

He continues reading, more directions following the joke:

 

'look in the breakroom!'

 

Have you ever felt confused, excited, aroused, and terrified all at once? Because Courfeyrac is right now, and he groans in emotional agony. 

Puns are like foreplay to him, everyone knows this. At one time, Jehan and Bahorel hosted a competition to see who could write the best puns for Courfeyrac, and their target had to do a lot of deep self-reflection in the days afterwards to determine if he was actually attracted to his friends, or just easily impressed and gay.

He still hasn't settled the verdict on that yet.

However!

Combeferre is writing puns for him.

On purpose.

With the knowledge of his pun-sexuality.

What the heck?

The sticky note is folded and carefully held between his fingers as the curly-haired man hurries from the office to the breakroom. He's always been good at following directions- it helps keep the distracting thump of his racing heart from overwhelming him.

It doesn't take long for him to spot the next note as it's stuck to the side of a thermos- one that he usually keeps at Combeferre's apartment because it's dented and covered in pride stickers and quite beloved- and inside said thermos is the delicious wafting smell of a chai latte. 

His favorite.

Courfeyrac fights the fluttering in his chest by pursing his lips tight and snatching the paper- the combination of tummy butterflies and confused heart are making him feel slightly ill, so the offered drink will have to wait for now.

This note is obscenely blue, and he has to squint to read the lab technician's writing.

 

'What did the janitor say when he jumped out of the closet?'

Courfeyrac squints and flips it over.

'SUPPLIES!'

 

It's dumb and stupid and perfect, but all Courfeyrac can picture is Grantaire reenacting this and that makes him nervously giggle. 

Damn it, he's not supposed to be having fun! He's supposed to be guilty and grumpy and meeting with Combeferre, who is confusing the heck out of him.

Underneath the pun, Combeferre's writing instructs him to go to the lab.

Chai latte in hand and blue note tucked away with the pink one in his other, Courfeyrac shuffles from the breakroom and down back towards the lab.

It's a bit eerie, being alone in the clinic this early the morning. The lack of chatter and equipment make the walls feel a bit more claustrophobic, a little less like home.

No, that's not right- the clinic is still the same, no matter how it might serve as the only witness to his oncoming heartbreak. He loves this place, like he loves hugs and glitter and his friends. Like he loves...

A wave of despair crashes so unexpectedly over him that Courfeyrac halts mid-step, nearly losing his breath as 'Combeferre' rushes through his mind after the word 'love'. 

Fuck.

It takes a few moments before he regains his bearings and wipes some sweat from his forehead.

With renewed courage and totally not wanting to waltz right back out of the clinic, to his car, and back home to Marius's freckly butt, Courfeyrac focuses on his task at hand by taking a steadying inhale of the sweet and spicy drink before pushing open the door to the lab.

The sterile room is like a time capsule from the previous week- when Combeferre had unexpectedly left for the day and hadn't returned- everything exactly where it was, even his spare pair of glasses and the copy of Courfeyrac's favorite celebrity gossip magazine that the human resources representative must have forgotten when visiting.

That day seems like years ago while feeling like it had just happened a moment ago.

Courfeyrac's lips curl into a sour frown as he is reminded why he hasn't visited the lab since then: everything in it reminds him of Combeferre and Courfeyrac swears that he's haunted. Glimpses of the intelligent man hunched over his computer or swirling a little vial of unknown liquid flicker are like memories imprinted on the very tiles, the very walls of the place.

Courfeyrac nearly misses the green sticky note smushed against the screen of the computer.

Tears threaten to blind him, but Courfeyrac roughly rubs them away before reading.

 

'How does a chemist come out of the closet?'

'Mom, Dad, I'm made of gallium and yttrium.'

'What?'

Courfeyrac's shaky hand turns it over, 

'I'm GaY!'

 

"Oh my geez, freakin'...stupid..." With a wheeze, Courfeyrac has to sit down and catch his breath. The pun is so stupid that he's actually going to cry.

Is this Combeferre's way of payback?

Has his benevolent friend resorted to cruel and unusual punishment by way of pun-death?

And now he's crying, if you can call it that. It's more like a honking sob where Courfeyrac can't really fully inhale but everything is coming out in one great big 'hyuck' sound and it really only makes him laugh/cry harder.

He wants to scream and break every beaker in this room, he wants to tear up these perfectly stupid puns and then frame them above his bed, he wants to find Combeferre and yell at him and then kiss him and then...

 

"Courfeyrac?"

"Hyuucknngh?!"

Is this how he dies? Here, hyperventilating on the lab floor making dying duck sounds, while the most beautiful man in the world looks so so so worried and oh my gosh, Courfeyrac realizes that it's /Combeferre/ who's putting his hands on his shoulders and it's /Combeferre/ who's leaning in and saying something about taking a breath and to stop spilling chai latte all over his lap.

Courfeyrac's lips part but all that comes out is another soggy 'quack' and he throws his arms around the man in front of him and clings and cries. 

Instead of those beloved pun-writing hands pushing him away as Courfeyrac is sort of expecting them to, Combeferre's arms are wrapping tenderly around him, almost cradling him, so familiar and warm.

Somehow, this closeness makes it easier to breathe. The tighter he's held, the more the horrendous knot in his chest eases.

He must be dying now, since a few moments have passed and Combeferre is gently hoisting him up into his arms and guiding him out of the lab. He's floating, feet stumbling, but those broad hands are rubbing at his back and already feel like home. 

With a shuddering exhale, Courfeyrac calms down enough to realize where they are heading.

Combeferre hesitates for the first time outside of the medical supply closet, and Courfeyrac swallows before he smooshes his face against the taller man's chest. A gentle rumble brought along words spoken softly just to him, "My plan was to have you meet me in here, but I heard you...getting sidetracked in the lab."

Good save there, Combeferre.

Courfeyrac is already flushed so when he pulls back, it's easy to miss the delirious confusion and joy in his eyes. Combeferre's gaze lingers for moment too long before he opens the closet door and ushers the other inside.

Ode de hand sanitizer and plastic wrap settles deep over Courfeyrac's olfactory senses and draws him further away from his panic, and the voice inside his head reminds him that this was the last place he and Combeferre had been before the 'incident'.

The kiss.

Their first kiss.

In the closet.

Future-Courfeyrac will find this very funny, but Present-Courfeyrac, like a pendulum, has swung to the other end of the emotional spectrum and settles numbly into the Therapy Chair.

'Ironic', he thinks sardonically. 

Combeferre presses his glasses up the bridge of his nose as his head hangs shyly, avoiding eye contact even as he turns on the light switch that illuminates the crowded space, and Courfeyrac sits on his own hands to keep the temptation to soothe the other man at bay.

There is a beat of silence that amplifies both racing heartbeats. 

They both start to speak simultaneously,

"Ferre, we need to talk."

"I'm so sorry, Fey."

 

What.

"What?"

 

A glint on his glasses obscures Combeferre's shattered expression- angst threatening to break across the handsome features of his face- like Courfeyrac has the power to completely destroy him in this moment.

Brown eyes blink wetly, narrowing, and Courfeyrac frowns. 

Everything is very still for a very long moment, and he waits for Combeferre to speak next.

Too quickly, too rehearsed, the words come tumbling from his friend's lips.

"Courfeyrac, I understand if this is totally inappropriate or uncalled for, especially after my atrocious behavior last week, but spending time away, time to be alone and to sleep- to be honest I couldn't really sleep well knowing that you were so upset- but I slept more than I normally do- anyways, I have had a lot of time to think and I have to do this. To say my piece. Please."

"...I'm listening." Courfeyrac feels a drip of frustration pitter-patter in his chest while the other man rambles, an uncomfortable itch at the idea that they are coming into this conversation from very different viewpoints. Combeferre nods his head a bit too hard, and he has to adjust his glasses before speaking again.

"Enjolras advised that I wait until he could mediate any sort of further discussion between us, as I had left you in such a terrible state, and I-I was trying very hard to keep that distance between us to give you time to recover from the horrible situation I put you through. And then the stress overall with work was just overwhelming, and I had to have to do a lot of self-reflection and re-organizing my priorities. I even met with Dr. Joly and we have come to a mutual understanding in both a professional sense and have settled all personal concerns."

"..." 

"Most importantly, out of everything that has happened I knew that I had to make it up to you somehow. I-I...in a moment of weakness I betrayed your trust, and I jeopardized the most precious part of me..."

Courfeyrac's shoulders sag and each breath aches in his chest- but he can't move yet, not as Combeferre's voice breaks on his next words.

"Y-you, Courfeyrac. You are the most precious part of me. And I have so selfishly risked our friendship by kissing you without your consent and then running away. I am worse than a coward and I can only hope that one day you'll be able to call me your 'friend' again. I have caused so much harm, I've hurt so many people, not only my friends but our patients and if I can even begin to make it up to you, it'd be more than I deserve."

Combeferre rambles when he's terrified and unsure of himself, both emotions so foreign to the lab technician's normal steady bearing, and his fingers curl uselessly against the edge of his scrubs uniform top to keep from wringing themselves raw.

The metal folding chair shifts harshly against the linoleum flooring as Courfeyrac pushes himself up to stand on trembling legs, his knees are like jelly. When he speaks, it's barely a whisper.

"You wouldn't hurt a fly, Combeferre."

Now it is the taller man's turn to be caught off guard.

"W-what?"

Courfeyrac moves forward half a step, eyes locked on the other man, the sparkle of his own reflecting back in the other's widened gaze. 

"You are so careful and gentle with everything you come in contact with, Ferre. Flies, moths, patients..." Another inch closes between them, "Me."

His gaze is momentarily distracted by the quick bob of Combeferre's larynx in his throat as he swallows, and Courfeyrac stops moving when Combeferre responds, softer and so careful as though his words would break whatever precious, fragile thing is building between them.

Even the air is hesitant in his lungs, Courfeyrac is back within himself, no longer panicked nor numb, and he listens. Combeferre's cheeks are tinged pink, but he hasn't backed away from his partner's closeness. The corners of the other's lips have quirked in a way that short-circuits Courfeyrac's thoughts, and his eyes narrow onto them.

"Of course I'm gentle with flies and moths, Fey- you know how terribly essential flies are to the ecosystem- I know we've all talked about this before. I know it's not your favorite subject, but really, it's so important to be aware of! They're just as important as any one of us! And don't even get me started on moths--"

Combeferre's mounting tirade on his favorite topic is cut short as Courfeyrac's closes the distance between them. 

Kissing him.

Oh.

His lips steal any further talk about flies or moths or patients.

The press of their mouths is simple and sweet and over before either can really realize what has happened, but Courfeyrac remains on his tippy toes and meekly bumps the top of his head underneath Combeferre's slack jaw.

The smaller man's head bows, his dark curls unnaturally stiff (in his anxious preparation for their meeting, he used too much mousse, Combeferre silently notices), and Courfeyrac's hands withdraw from where they were beginning to rest against his friend's warm chest.

"I'm sorry..."

A cruel reflection of last time prompts Combeferre into executive action.

"I love you."

Well, that certainly catches Courfeyrac off guard, and he chokes on his spit while Combeferre helps by carefully thumping him on the back and managing to look ravishingly concerned.

The back pats don't really help, but Courfeyrac is too busy flailing his hand and turning bright red in shock and embarrassment to say otherwise.

The taller man doesn't remove his hand from where it curled between the other's shoulder blades once Courfeyrac's composed himself. And as though he's on a personal mission to kill Courfeyrac with his touch, he closes the distance between their bodies like puzzle pieces, chest to chest, hips to hips, lips brushing and sending shivers down Courfeyrac's spine. 

Shimmering brown eyes are wide and unsure, peering up now, looking as though Combeferre's words weren't quite connecting the synapses in his lovely brain. 

So, Combeferre repeats himself, lips softening into an amused smile.

"I love you, Courfeyrac. I have for a very long time. You can even say...I've been in the 'closet' for a long time now."

Courfeyrac makes a reprise of his earlier dying duck sound. "Y-you asshole!"

That earns him a low chuckle that sends goosebumps prickling down his arms and heat rushing to his cheeks, and Combeferre leans in closer and whispers-

"Am I...'punny'...enough for you?"

Combeferre, that absolute jerk, laughs into Courfeyrac's next desperate kiss and doesn't stop laughing until the smaller man has crowded him back against the door and throws his arms around Combeferre's shoulders. 

Small glimpses of laughter fade into a more concentrated symphony of roaming hands and exchanging saliva, and Courfeyrac's hands find purchase in Combeferre's hair that he loves so horribly much, and he caresses and tugs him down closer. Combeferre's hands are gripping at his waist in a lovely way, firm and tender and they've crept up under the hem of his shirt, so his touch flutters across Courfeyrac's skin, gentle like moth wings.

Combeferre is the first to dare pull away, as much as he can with the dark-haired man's whine of frustration sending heat barreling through his limbs, and he nuzzles against the other's cheek fondly while catching his breath.

"Is this okay? Are you okay?"

"Y-yes, oh gosh, yes Ferre, more than okay. I-I...I um..."

Warm lips part and release what is probably the prettiest sound Combeferre has ever heard, and one of his hands dips below Courfeyrac's waist band and dip a few inches lower against his boxer-briefs, and Combeferre pulls back just far enough to raise an eyebrow down at the other in a silent gesture to continue.

Courfeyrac pouts out his lip and drags his fingernails lightly down Combeferre's broad shoulders, earning a little groan in response before he speaks, "I love you, too. Very much. And I'm very mad at you for trying to stay away from me because that is exactly what I didn't need."

"Well, what do you need now?"

"You."

"Can I kiss you?"

Courfeyrac huffs out an impatient, almost frantic noise through his nose, and tilts his head up higher- seeking Combeferre's mouth with his own.

"Yes," He breathes.

Combeferre kisses him.

He kisses him and every awful, terrible, soul-weary feeling that has congealed within Courfeyrac's chest over the past week evaporates. 

Both of Combeferre's clever hands come up to cup both of Courfeyrac's cheeks, cradling him, and he caresses his thumbs along each and every freckle. A low sound escapes from his mouth when they part for air, and Courfeyrac's tongue darts out and licks at the corner of the other's swollen lips. 

"Ferre? Have you--a-ahh..." 

"Hmm?"

"Bastard...don't u-uh, don't stop..."

"'Have I' what, honey?"

Courfeyrac can't answer yet, not as Combeferre presses open mouthed kisses along his cheek, to the outer shell of his ear, then lower across his jaw and to his neck. Each kiss is accompanied by a warm, wet, delightfully lazy hum that automatically causes Courfeyrac's toes to curl.

All the dark-haired man can do is cup the back of his partner's head and clutch him impossibly closer, and he uses Combeferre's distraction to begin to walk them both away from the door. With an encouraging moan, Courfeyrac pushes Combeferre back onto the Therapy Chair without breaking contact, crawling desperately onto his lap in order to keep that delicious mouth against his skin.

They shift against one another to get as comfortable as two men could on one folding chair, but they manage.

The power of love and Combeferre's long, long legs.

"Answer the question, Fey," Combeferre licks up Courfeyrac's exposed neck, dirty and slow and they both groan at the spike of longing that bolts straight through them. Courfeyrac whines and pulls the other back in for an open-mouthed kiss, wanting to lose himself for another moment before pulling back with a gasp to finally speak.

"Have you...have you figured out your Secret Santa gift yet? Also, I love you."

Combeferre nips at his mouth again and smiles, and Courfeyrac smiles shyly back before untangling his hands from the other man's hair to gently remove his glasses and set them to the side. Gray eyes blink dazedly up at him and Courfeyrac feels dizzy.

"U-uh, yes. I actually have. I had time to go to the mall and shop around for ideas. And I love you too. Are you sure that this is okay for you?"

A pointed look, a roll of his hips, and Courfeyrac moans a little more lewdly than he needs to in response, and he surges forward to kiss his man again. Combeferre must be pleased with that answer because he grinds himself up to meet the smaller man's movements and grasps desperately at his hips.

It's not even 7am and they're making out in the medical supply closet like it's their own personal 'seven minutes in heaven'.

The sun has barely had a chance to wake up before the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic Human Resources Counselor and Lab Technician are confessing their love for one another between breathless kisses and heated touches.

Enjolras, already on his second cup of caffeine ambition, doesn't even look up when his best friends untangle themselves from one another and stumble hopelessly down the hall to where he's already set up for the day in the corporate office. Courfeyrac's mouth is bright red (and it's definitely not from the cherry lip balm he favors) and Combeferre's brown hair is atrociously unkempt. 

"We have a lot to take care of this week before the holiday break. Combeferre, I expect for you to take a full hour lunch break this afternoon, along with two fifteen-minute breaks when you can- Dr. Joly agreed to help me when I begin interviewing for your future lab assistant, and Courfeyrac...you missed a button." With a dismissing wave of his hand towards the two lovebirds, Enjolras is in 'Enjolras' mode and doesn't react to the smaller man's squeak of indignation while Combeferre helps re-button his crumpled shirt.

However, Enjolras does notice the lack of tension between his friends, how Courfeyrac whirls and twirls around the office space, how their bubbly, affectionate, sweet Courfeyrac is back with them. Combeferre, while still the same observant and serious man who others relied on for guidance and support, is making sure to hug each and every one of his coworkers as they come into the office that morning- and he even agrees to join Feuilly and Eponine for their lunch date on Tuesday.

Before the clinic's day officially starts with the arrival of their first patient at 8am, Enjolras can't fight his own joy when his friends announce their new dating status (it really was only a matter of time, and Enjolras is just glad that they sorted this out before work began), and he allows both men to squish him into a Triumvirate hug sandwich (with Courfeyrac in the 'center' as always).

Courfeyrac now gets to kiss Combeferre's cheek when he stops by the lab to check on his partner, and Combeferre holds his hand during breaks, and by 10am everyone is sick of their lovey-dovey gay shit.

And no one mentions the desecrated medical supply closet.

- - - - - - - - - - - - - -

11:29am From Apollo:   Heeey sweet cheeks :) how's it hanging? you busy later?

11:32am To Apollo:   what do you want courf

11:35am From Apollo:   D: how did you know it was me??

11:36am To Apollo:   ...

11:38am From Apollo:   fine

11:39am From Apollo:   dang you guys text a lot

11:41 From Apollo:   Jojo went potty so I stole his phone mwhaha

11:41am From Apollo:   for real tho are you busy later? me and cosette and jehan are gonna do holiday decorations and we need your artistic talents

11:46am To Apollo:   eh im not that good

11:48am From Apollo:   sir don't think Ép didn't show me pictures from your gallery display 

11:49am From Apollo:   even Jojo is a fan but he hasnt figured out that its yours

11:50am From Apollo:   anyways please pleas pleaaase come and help

12:14pm From Apollo:   Grantaire pleaaaaaaaaaaaaaaase

12:18pm To Apollo:   fine

12:19pm To Apollo:   has he been in the bathroom this whole time??

12:24pm From Apollo:   lol

12:25pm From Apollo:   ah no he's coming back- looks like he got sidetracked by Feuilly

12:25pm From Apollo:   woef1 3r90 ewfionjjwe 139

12:29pm To Apollo:   see u guys soon <3

1:45pm From Apollo:   Grantaire, I hope that you realize that it was not me who was texting earlier, it seems that Courfeyrac has commandeered my phone while I was away from my desk. Since it was technically a private conversation, I will not read through it. 

1:48pm To Apollo:   u really r somthin huh

1:49pm To Apollo:   tell courf ill be there at 3

- - - - - - - - - - - -

"Ah, the man of the hour, come at last! Huzzah!" Jehan cheers from where they sit surrounded by the corpses of mutilated snowflakes. Cosette, draped in silver and gold tinsel, looks like an angel as she gently dusts lingering snow from Grantaire's coat after he's stepped into the lobby of the clinic.

With a quick glimpse around to make sure that there aren't any patients within earshot, Grantaire gives his friends a roguish grin, "'m gonna freeze my balls off! This is the last time I'll ever agree to help you guys." 

Cosette kisses his cheek and leads him back behind their desk so he can deposit both his outer layers and art supplies and pull up a chair.

"You've made it just in time! Dr. Joly's last patient just checked in, so we can take up space in the hallways and the lobby to hang things up without being in the way!" The soft metallic clicking of scissors comes from Jehan's spot where they've made a strand of very intricate dancing paper snowflakes. Grantaire nods in approval, and eases into his afternoon of drawing little winter scenes on posters and helping arrange red and green and gold displays. 

After an hour passes, Courfeyrac and Combeferre join the decorating group. Combeferre's height coming in handy to hang mistletoe and banners and Courfeyrac provides a music playlist with only the most atrocious and irritating holiday music to set the mood. Grantaire notices how Combeferre's hand reaches out to touch whenever Courfeyrac passes by him and how Courfeyrac purrs and softens and looks like he wants to tackle the other man and rip his clothes off.

To be fair, Courfeyrac looked at Combeferre that way before all this 'admitting your feelings' business, but now it is reciprocated. It's sweet and gross and Grantaire looks forward to hearing all about it from Éponine later tonight.

Grantaire finishes the finishing touches on a winter cottage scene that he plans to hang up by Dr. Joly's desk, dabbing some silver glitter against the drying gray paint of snowy clouds, when Courfeyrac rolls over from his back to his belly and calls out to someone at the other side of the lobby. 

"Yo, Enjolras! My love, my light, come over here please and gaze upon the fruits of our labor! We're just about done!"

Immediately the janitor flinches and nearly dabs his brush too roughly, but he saves his sparkly cloud and sets his supplies aside before chancing a glance up towards where Courfeyrac is still pouting.

"I'll look at it later, I have back-to-back phone conference calls to make. I'll come after them. Courfeyrac, don't give me that face..." Enjolras has his mane of curls tied back in a low bun and Grantaire gulps and quickly looks down.

Courfeyrac's face is really and truly pitiful, and Grantaire can't help but chuckle a bit and reach out to tickle along the smaller man's stomach. As Courfeyrac shrieks and squirms on the ground to get away and crawl to the safety of his newly minted ~boyfriend~, Grantaire catches Enjolras' bristling frown and the growing redness peaked on his cheekbones before the man whirls to march away.

Grantaire has had enough. Enough of the cold shoulder when he didn't fucking do anything wrong. 

He pushes himself to his feet with a soft grunt and rolls his shoulders, and the others in the room seem to catch on to what he's doing.

"Hey R, c'mon sweetie- it's not worth picking a fight now..." Cosette tries to grasp his arm, but he shakes her off gently (he knows that if she really wanted to, she could easily take him down) and follows Enjolras' trail down the hall to where the taller man has disappeared into the bathroom.

"Not picking a fight, just...gotta do this."

Cosette wants to argue with him, wants to call out for Éponine to come help keep her best friend under control, but she has to let him go. 

Grantaire is hurting, Enjolras is hurting, and Cosette wants nothing more than for everyone to join hands and sing that awful Whoville song from the Grinch movie. Instead, she draws back from the temptation of snooping to walk back to the lobby where the others are surely waiting for her to spill the tea.

Inside the bathroom, Enjolras zips up his trousers and flushes the toilet, not thinking twice when the door opens and another person steps in- it's a gender-neutral bathroom so privacy stalls line the wall. He opens the door to his stall and jumps when Grantaire's reflection in the mirror glowers back at him from where the shorter man stands to the side.

"M-my word, man, you didn't have to wait for me to come out- there's other stalls," Enjolras dumbly gestures towards the empty spaces before stubbornly ignoring the other man in lieu of stepping up to the sink to wash his hands.

Grantaire keeps his arms crossed over his chest and huffs a breath, fighting every fiber of his being that screams at him to please stop.

"Why do you hate me, Enjolras?"

As the blond reaches for the soap dispenser, he tenses- frozen in place for a moment that Grantaire hates because it's as statuesque as a Greek god in marble, and just as cold- and Grantaire has to strain to hear his response over the splash of running water in the sink.

"Why are you here, Grantaire?"

Slender fingers lather with suds, running up and over fine-boned wrists and down worn knuckles, and his eyes are blue in the mirror as they glare purposefully away from Grantaire.

Grantaire's lips curl in an ugly way and his voice comes out harsh, "What the fuck does that mean? I'm here in the bathroom because there's no other place I can apparently get you to just listen to me!"

"That's not what I meant. And you talk to me plenty, over text and over phone calls. We have spent more time together socially than I recall doing so before. When I ask, 'why are you here', I mean..." Enjolras sucks his cheeks in for a moment, obviously mulling over his words as though he really actually cares about what he's trying to say, and Grantaire hates how his body reacts to the sight.

A terrible realization is dawning on him in the silence that settles in those brief moments, and Enjolras doesn't need to speak the words that next come out of his terrible mouth- words that Grantaire has already tortured himself with for countless nights before.

"Why are you involving yourself with the clinic? You clearly have no wish to participate in anything we do, you don't attend any rallies or events, you don't volunteer, you don't even believe in our mission statement!"

Well, okay, not exactly what Grantaire was thinking- he should have expected for Enjolras to come at this from a very professional standpoint.

Nerd.

Grantaire's voice grinds out as he retorts, "I wasn't aware that there was a 'bare minimum' requirement for being hired on- I've told you anyways- I don't want to spend my free time working and planning and shit. That's not what I'm about."

Oh, that was /not/ the right thing to say apparently, but Grantaire isn't here to tell Enjolras what he wants to hear, so he doesn't back down when the taller man blinks indignantly and stomps forward in frustration.

"You have no use- no purpose! How can you live with yourself knowing that you are contributing /nothing/ to others, you have no care or compassion for the community, you have no faith, no hope! I can't understand how you believe yourself amongst peers when you have nothing to provide, Grantaire, you are hopeless, and you frustrate me to no end!" Enjolras does not hold back in his rant, his words sharp as knives that he hurtles into his antagonist, and Grantaire wears them with pride as he throws his arms out and grins derisively even though inside his heart is shattering.

Enjolras' eyes are wild and heated, and even though he looks as though he wants to burn Grantaire to a crisp, it's so much better than the cold disregard he's been on the receiving end of, so, he keeps pushing.

"Do you want to know where my faith and hope and compassion have gone, Enjolras? Do you want to know why I can't see a future for this place? It's because all I can see here is death. All that awaits here is pain, all that the 'people' who you claim to care so much about are actually dealing with. I've been her friend, I've held her hand, I've painted her and displayed her and all I've ever seen and witnessed is death and helplessness." Grantaire's never spoken the blond's full name aloud until now and it feels bitter on his tongue, like a sin to speak it in the same breath as his own trauma, but he continues on even as Enjolras blinks back surprise at his words.

"Did you ever think to ask why I'm taking a fucking break? Sure, whatever, you can call me lazy or stupid, I can fucking deal with those- but don't you dare accuse me of not caring. Did you know...pff, of course you don't. You don't give a shit. I don't even know why I'm telling you this. You're going to say it's an excuse and I'm just--"

Enjolras interrupts with a growl, startling Grantaire out of his monologuing, and both men are breathing heavily, and the air feels heavier. "Don't put words into my mouth, Grantaire."

He tries to fight the sarcastic roll of his eyes, but honestly, he's so upset right now he deserves to roll them, as a treat. "I wouldn't dare, Apollo. I wouldn't dare assume anything about you, just as you wouldn't dare assume anything about me. Right? You wouldn't have recognized me a year ago, and I damn well would not have been able to deal with...with you. Because a year ago, I was commissioned to paint the final months of a dying woman. I was paid to sit with her at her home and at the hospital and at her favorite park because those were going to be the last time, she ever got to go to them. I was with her when she died, right here- upstairs, Room 2401. I was the only one to fucking hold her hand when she died because her family disowned her, and her friends left her when they realized that her life was a just ticking time-bomb ready to explode and end at any moment."

He continues between heaving breaths, torn down the middle between the present and the past.

"I had to paint as her body wasted to nothing and she loved how brightly I would paint her dresses and then after all of that, after she died of a fucking disease that has killed so many people like her, like us before, when the art gallery hosted their fucking...'queer artist gala'...and they said that I was an inspiration, that I was depicting such a dark and depressing end to a life in such a beautiful way, that this was the 'history of art and queerness' and everything they were wanting."

Grantaire feels the warm burn of tears rolling down the stubble on his cheeks, but he lets them go. 

Enjolras hasn't said a word, isn't speaking yet, and Grantaire's anger bubbles again when the taller man has the audacity to look at him with pity.

"Her name was Fantine, and she did not die for some beautiful purpose. For a fucking 'cause'. She didn't die to be inspirational. She didn't even want to die and all I could do was paint and hold her hand and show up to the gallery as though I was proud of what I did. So no, Enjolras. I do not need to pass any of your bullshit tests or meet any of your requirements for being part of this group. Just because you're willing to kill yourself for your job instead of living for the people who love you."

Whoop, there it is.

All Grantaire can see is red and Enjolras is red, the room is red, Fantine is red, and he's never really said this out loud, not even to Éponine.

"So, you're R. I've seen those paintings online."

No shit, Sherlock. Grantaire has to bite back the retort that brings him a step back towards reality.

Enjolras turns off the water spigot and quietly turns his back to the paper towel dispenser, ripping two sheets in quick succession and drying his hands off a bit too thoroughly. Grantaire stares at his back, his eyes tracing the flex of his shoulder blades beneath his jacket down to the poorly hidden trembling in the taller man's knees. 

Golden curls drop over his eyes as he turns around slowly, paper towels clutched tightly between his fingers, and Enjolras' frowning lips open with his response.

"If I don't do what I do, what good am I to anyone here? To anyone else? You are content to step away, into the shadow of complacency. What you did for...Fantine...was good. Kind. If you brought her some sort of peace. But I cannot allow myself that luxury."

"Bullshit. You aren't actually a god, Enjolras. No one here expects this from you...do you really think that we...that /I/ could afford to lose you?"

Piercing eyes meet his and drill into his very soul and Grantaire feels weak and panicked, his bold question filling in the spaces that their conversations have always avoided.

"I was never yours to begin with, Grantaire."

Even with the words spitting from red lips, red like a squeeze of blood from an IV and the color of a winter jacket, red like Grantaire's paints and half of that damn coffee mug, Enjolras closes the distance between them and grasps roughly at the shorter man's forearms- standing toe to toe. He blinks when the momentum of his movement catches up with him, and the squall in his gaze flickers with a seed of doubt. Grantaire doesn't dare move away when he whispers his next words.

"Like hell you aren't."

Enjolras' lips part and he leans in so close that they're breathing the same air, and Grantaire's breath stutters in that horrible space between.

It's like he's being scorched by the sun, he's already addicted and burning up from the inside out, as the roaring in his ears deafens the ache in his damned soul, blissfully sweet. It's not even a kiss and it's killing him.

Blunt nails rake across his arms which earns the blond man a deep moan, but Enjolras rips himself away and Grantaire shudders as though the loss of touch tears away more than just flesh and heat.

Enjolras brings a trembling hand to cover his mouth as he careens away and out of the bathroom without another word, leaving Grantaire in darkness, and Grantaire lets him go without a fight.

It's a beautiful torture, the heat against his mouth and the marks branding his skin.

He can hear sounds from outside the door, soft, familiar voices, calling after Enjolras and then calling in to Grantaire. He can't answer yet, not before splashing his face with cold water and breathing long, slow, and deep. The bathroom door opens, and he flicks a quick gaze over his shoulder to see Éponine.

She's frowning but keeps her gaze tight with control.

"Shut up, you don't have to talk right now, R."

"Didn't say anything."

"I know. Just...c'mon, Ferre needs your help hanging up the last poster. Come over to my place after- Gav and Azelma have a new video game and apparently I'm not cool enough to play with them."

"Okay."

Grantaire trails after and back out to the lobby, and his friends try so fucking hard to pretend like they weren't just crowding outside the bathroom door listening in, and they slowly melt into chattering amongst themselves and finishing their decorations. 

Enjolras can be heard from the corporate office on his conference call, as intense as anyone can be when discussing patient retention policies, when he finds himself reaching for an empty coffee mug.

That ugly red and green one that stimulates an almost Pavlovian response for evening coffee.

Fuck.

Tonight is going to be the loneliest.

dang, these emotional scenes are a lot! I know this chapter was a little heavy with them, so thank you for reading on!

Courfeyrac puts his degree to good use! There's a Gift Exchange!

hee hee <3

Grantaire's cellphone buzzes and he has half a mind to ignore it, after all, the holiday party is about to begin. It's a Saturday so the clinic is officially closed for the afternoon, which opens up the lobby for space. The chairs and benches have been pushed to the sides and in their place stands a few folding tables draped in red and green tablecloth, with an assortment of office chairs, beanbags, and a shit-quality couch that is being 'borrowed' from another department.

The handiwork of the clinic's artisanal decoration squad actually looks really fucking good, Grantaire admits to himself as he spares one last glance around before relenting to the second round of incoming texts that disturb the peace. 

4:14pm From Courf:   SOS

4:14pm From Courf:   S O S com eto supply closet NOW

4:15pm From Courf:   EMERGENCY

His heart skips at the initial wave of panic that washes through his belly and Grantaire shoves his phone into his pocket. His plans of loitering around the breakroom and concocting gross drinks to dare Bahorel to drink are put on temporary hold.

"Oi! Courfeyrac!" Without anyone else to bother with his noise, Grantaire hollers out as he jogs down the hallway and towards the ordained meeting place, only to come to a screeching halt outside its door when another body comes hurtling around the corner from the opposite direction.

...

"..."

Without another word, Enjolras, who is huffing fallen curls from his forehead with an irritated breath, holds his phone out at arms distance for Grantaire to read the messages on the screen:

4:13pm From Courfeyrac:   SOS

4:14pm From Courfeyrac:   S O S come to supply closet NOW

4:15pm From Courfeyrac:   EMERGENCY

"Huh," Grantaire concedes as Enjolras grasps his phone tightly in his fist and grinds his teeth. That simple movement shouldn't be as attractive as it is, but it's too late and Grantaire swallows thickly before looking down at the ripped knees of his favorite pair of jeans.

Neither man has the opportunity to make their interaction even more awkward when the medical supply closet door flings open to reveal a terribly proud and festive looking Courfeyrac, flanked by none other than Combeferre and Éponine.

"Well, well, well, look who finally showed up! What if I was like, dying in here? Precious minutes wasted because you two can't get your acts together! Now- in you go!"

It is a well-coordinated plan of attack that the unusual trio implements, Combeferre first wrapping an arm around Enjolras' shoulders and guiding him inside, his head tilted close to whisper secretly into the blond's ear. Éponine is far less gentle with wrangling Grantaire, but with a dirty move that involves a pinch to his thigh that makes him squeak, he stumbles in after her and finds himself deposited roughly onto a chair. 

Directly facing where Enjolras has been placed, their knees brushing.

Courfeyrac rubs his palms together wickedly and looks like a devil, despite his puffy cream snowflake sweater and silver barrettes glistening in his curls. He's a terrible man and he's now on the receiving ends of Enjolras' death glare and Grantaire's rather wet puppy-dog eyes. He stays strong though, with a supporting nod from his stunning ~boyfriend~ and equally terrifying friend and addresses the group.

"I'm sure that you're both wondering why we've brought you here today."

"Tricked us! You're as bad as actual 'fae', Fey," Grantaire whines but Éponine hushes him with a wet willy in his ear, and Courfeyrac winces in sympathy. Enjolras is smart enough to stay quiet for now, but part of that is probably because he trusts that Combeferre wouldn't actually put him in a position where he's in danger of harm or humiliation.

Courfeyrac' lips curl into a wider smile and his hands stretch out benevolently, "My darlings, we are hosting an intervention! A relationship intervention of sorts. Not that we're expecting you guys to like, declare romantic love for one another in the next fifteen minutes, but..."

Combeferre, Éponine, and Courfeyrac all share a glance, one that both their victims notice without comment, the hive mind moving forward with phase two.

"But we really /really/ hate seeing you both so upset, and we really want everyone to have a nice time at our party. We want to have a civil time together, and I think the greatest present any of us could ask for, is for you both to try and get along? Just for one night at least?"

Enjolras finally speaks, and Grantaire flinches at the icy quiet in his tone that's directed more towards the tissue boxes stacked behind Grantaire's head than to the dark-haired man himself, "This is ridiculous. We are both perfectly capable of acting civil around one another." 

"Bullshit, Enj. You get all huffy and prickly around R, and you act like you don't care when you know you do, and R, you get so wrapped up in your stupid head that you just get argumentative and crabby and assume the worst without giving him a chance to prove otherwise." Éponine fires back, and Grantaire's eyes widen as Enjolras' lips press firmly together and he turns his head to look away, jaw set and Grantaire wants to bite along his stunning profile.

Count on him to get aroused during an intervention.

Combeferre clears his throat softly and gives Enjolras' shoulder a light squeeze, his long fingers pressing against the burgundy (red adjacent, of-fucking-course) button-up the blond is wearing and looks from Grantaire to Éponine. "When is the last time you both had an actual conversation? One that didn't involve shouting or arguing?"

The silence is deafening. The sound of soft carols fills the ache in Grantaire's chest, and he realizes that the party out in the lobby must be starting from the sound of soft music. He answers first.

"U-uh, probably last weekend. We talked on the phone about..."

Enjolras breathes out, finishing Grantaire's sentence, "...whether or not ocean is soup."

Courfeyrac must have swallowed his tongue because he's making a weird little choking sound, but Éponine and Combeferre let him settle down when they both make faces of disgust and mild interest respectively. It's Grantaire who speaks next, snorting a sarcastic laugh through his nose, "Heh, right. Out of everything to fucking agree on, it's that ocean is technically soup."

With a careful glance over to Enjolras, he nearly joins Courfeyrac's startled mouth sounds when he catches a faint, angelic smile that the taller man seems to be failing to suppress. Enjolras hides his mouth behind his hand, obviously anti-smiling, but the soft tone of his voice melts Grantaire even further. "It's a body of liquid, filled with chunks of things, and technically contained between landforms. Like soup."

"Like soup." Grantaire agrees and he feels like weeping like a damned fool because Enjolras is no longer fighting his smile and is instead biting at a knuckle to hold back laughter.

He feels wild. He feels like the world is on fire and he's being burnt to a crisp with how Enjolras' eyes are crinkling at the corners. 

Their audience is far less amused, and Courfeyrac crosses his arms over his chest with a momentous pout, Combeferre worries his bottom lip between his teeth, and Éponine's fingers are twitching as though she needs to stab something (and Grantaire watches her carefully, he's well within melee range).

Courfeyrac taps his foot and sighs, unable to pretend like he's actually frustrated with his friends, but he ruffles Grantaire's already fluffy curls and jumps back when Enjolras practically hisses at him to dare to try with his own. "Well, how about we have more talks about ocean soup and less talks about like, other stuff?"

The jovial mood in the room disperses as though a bucket of ice-cold water is dumped over the group, and Grantaire's chest feels terribly heavy again, and his boots scuff lightly at the floor beneath his chair.

Combeferre nods and shares, "I think it's only fair to find a balance between the 'ocean soup' talks and the 'other stuff'."

"I... agree. I will admit to not carrying myself with grace or...allowing you grace, Grantaire, in our conversations. Especially yesterday. I-- no, please, let me finish--" Enjolras holds up a hand, gentle in his movement, but firm that his intervention partner shuts his mouth with a hard 'click' of his teeth when he tries to interject. 

Courfeyrac's eyes are almost comically wide as he squats in the space between the chairs, and Grantaire notices how the smaller man's fingertips are stained with what looks like blue marker. That would explain the hastily drawn 'Therapy Chair 2' sign taped above Enjolras' chair.

His attention is renewed when the blond's hand lowers, and he hates how captivated he is, like a sinner baptized in a river of desire, like a non-believer to the word of god itself.

"I know it's no excuse, but for some reason you... you confuse me, and you intrigue me. You always take the other side in almost every conversation we have, and you claim that I'm too optimistic, too radical, and you don't believe in anything I believe in. But then I see you with...our friends...and I've seen your art. Éponine filled in the gaps on the history between you and Fantine, and I believe I highly misjudged you and your...er...intentions with our clinic," the greatest orator of their generation ends his speech rather lamely, fingers unsure of what to do so they tap a nervous rhythm that matches Grantaire's rapid pulse.

"That was really insightful, Jojo. That must have been weighing heavily on you," Courfeyrac muses gently and leans up to press a light kiss against his friend's cheek, and Enjolras flushes and doesn't pull back. Grantaire groans inwardly when his first thought was 'god, I wish that were me', but he groans outwardly when Éponine jabs a finger against his rib to indicate that it's his turn to confess.

With a grumble, he rubs at the sore spot before running a broad hand along his jaw. He hasn't shaved in a few days and the hairs are in an awkward stage between roguish five o'clock shadow and handsome lumberjack beard. 

It's fine, his therapist's voice in his consciousness chirps that his own self-judgements are far harsher than any of his friend's, and how they love him, bristly scruff and all.

Fine, today is just Grantaire's day to be plagued with therapists.

"I-I...um, I will also admit to being kind of an asshole and not stopping when it's past the point of a fun debate and more of a frustration scream-fest. I guess I'm just worried that you're going to get hurt doing all this, for trying so hard. I uh...I guess I misjudged you too though. And you do your best, which counts for more than I give. And the art stuff is just..."

Courfeyrac reaches out and takes one of his hands and holds it warmly, encouraging him to keep on talking, and Enjolras is looking up at him from underneath thick golden eyelashes, and Grantaire gulps as he averts his gaze again.

"I realized that I burnt myself out and became really bitter after that art commission. I had grown so close with Fantine, and even though I knew what was happening to her from the start, it was...too much. I couldn't handle it, and along with my drinking problems, it all kind of fell apart. But I'm in therapy now, and I'm trying to do better."

It's Enjolras who speaks next, and to everyone's surprise, he reaches out and carefully picks up Grantaire's other hand. It's reminiscent of their gentle moment in the car after work that week prior.

"You're trying. I'm proud of you for that."

Fucking hell, he's going to die surrounded by these gay emotional terrorists and no one's going to find his body until everyone's already drunk on eggnog and ready to go home after their holiday party.

"T-thanks, I'm proud...of you too." His words come out barely louder than a whisper, but the returned smile from the blond is blinding.

Icarus, meet sun, golden Apollo. 

He's doomed.

Combeferre lets out a relieved breath he must have been holding in and moves to open the door to the closet when louder sounds come filtering through from the lobby- more coworkers have arrived and Jehan's already serenading everyone with their flute. "I would say that was a successful intervention, honey. Good work." 

When Courfeyrac's cooing reply is too sickly sweet to bear and the curly-haired man begins to eye the lab technician like a piece of tender meat, Éponine, Grantaire, and Enjolras don't hesitate to escape before being subjected to further trauma. They quickly shut the door behind them and hear a definitive 'click' of a lock in response, and with a shared, horrified glance, the three hurry down the hall and back towards the crowded lobby.

A chorus greets them and a wave of glorious warmth crashes through Grantaire's chest- it's not a feeling he's quite familiar with yet, but damn, he thinks that he could learn to get used to it.

Éponine's arms lift to meet her girlfriend and she hums happily as Cosette lifts her and spins her before setting her down with a sweeter kiss. Feuilly swoops in to usher Enjolras over to the food table to have the taller man be the first to try his newest kołaczki recipe, the business lead having the sweetest sweet tooth out of the entire group and thus earning his title as the authority on all thing's dessert.

Grantaire observes the rest of their group fondly, one hand shoved in the pocket of his warmest green sweatshirt (the cleanest one has had), and meanders over to plop into a beanbag, smushing himself happily between Bossuet and Joly while Jehan plays a rather impressive harmony to the Dreidel Song. Marius looks absurd in his attempt to perform the '12 Days of Christmas' as an interpretive dance, earning scattered applause from their friends.

Musichetta helps Bahorel organize the pile of Secret Santa gifts in the center of the chair circle, each labeled with a tag stating the receiver of the gift without indicating its giver. Grantaire squints to try and see his but is distracted when a knock sounds at the clinic's front door comes with the holly-jolliest of 'HO HO HO!'s from the other side.

Cosette cheers and dashes to be first to greet their final guests and gasps when she backs up to allow them entrance. 

"No fucking way..." Grantaire murmurs in shock. Jehan's flute gives one last weak puff of a note before the auburn-haired musician's entire face lights up, and they throw their hands joyfully in the air as they announce their guests.

"Mr. and Mx. Claus!"

"Oh ho ho ho, looks like everyone is here! And I've heard from a little elf up at the North Pole that you all have been on the nice list this year!" Mr. Claus, aka Jean Valjean, looks as though he is made to play Santa Claus, his eyes twinkle merrily, his cheeks and nose are red, and his white hair and beard paint a Hallmark-card perfect picture.

That's not why Bousset and Grantaire are grappling with each other on the beanbag though- both men attempting and failing to hide their gleeful cackles and laughter- because along with Mr. Valjean Claus is none other than Mx. Javert Claus. Red suit, black boots, resting bitch face and all. 

"Oh Valjean, you look simply lovely. And Javert, you as well! Thank you both so much for coming!" Cosette kisses both of Valjean's rosy cheeks and even gets a stiff hug from Javert before the others recover from the initial shock. Enjolras still refuses to make eye contact with his boss- but Dr. Joly remains as professional and sweet as can be as he greets both men with a cheer and only jokes a little bit about their matching costumes.

Combeferre and Courfeyrac must have finally finished their gay business in the medical supply closet because Courfeyrac comes hurtling down the hall first, gasps upon spying the two older men and their marvelous costumes, and then tugs Bahorel into an impromptu waltz around the middle of the room while calling for Jehan to resume playing their flute. Combeferre emerges just a moment after, his hair noticeably messier than it was when Grantaire first saw him, and the taller man joins the good doctor with greeting their bosses.

The party continues on for a while, plans are discussed for their holiday break the following week, plates are loaded with homemade desserts, and Enjolras passes an olive branch of peace in the form of an offered cup of sparkling grape juice when he approaches where Grantaire is wallflowering and swaying to the music that other couples are jiving to. 

"For me? You shouldn't have, Apollo," He coos but doesn't refuse, and he allows their fingers to graze as he accepts the glass. Enjolras shrugs and settles against the wall next to him, still a safe enough distance that they aren't touching, but Grantaire can close his eyes and hear the other's soft breathing.

"Thank you."

He blinks his eyes open and frowns, tilting his head in confusion towards the blond who is now, horrifyingly, looking right back at him.

"H-huh? I'm the one who should thank you for bringing me this drink, dude."

Enjolras shakes his head once and bites back a harsh retort, and he takes a deep breath and looks like he is counting to three in his head. 

He's trying. Grantaire melts a little and hides his expression behind a sip of his sweet drink.

"I meant, thank you for trying. Trying to figure this out. Us out. With me."

"Us?"

"Yes."

"As long as you permit it, I'll try for as long as it takes."

"I do."

Well, shit. Enjolras is fucking blushing, his charming features heated as he turns to shyly look away. Grantaire clears his throat and nods, one hand coming up to rub at the back of his neck while he tilts over to gently bump their shoulders together when words don't feel enough for the warm moment. 

Before he can say anything to ruin whatever the fuck this is called between them, Courfeyrac cheerily announces that it is time for their Secret Santa exchange, and for everyone to locate the present addressed to them and then find a seat.

A scramble ensues, arms flailing, yelps and cries of 'found mine!' and 'scoot over!' join in the 'Carol of the Bells' that chimes from Combeferre's portable speaker that rests on the registration desk. At last, every present is accounted for, and every member of the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic is seated in some way in a circle.

Dr. Joly has commandeered the couch for himself, Marius, and Musichetta, while Combeferre and Éponine occupy the beanbag. Feuilly, Cosette, and Jehan have spots all in metal folding chairs, and Bahorel and Grantaire plop down on the floor at either side of the couch. Enjolras and Courfeyrac share one of the benches from the lobby. 

Mr. Valjean Claus and a grumpy Mx. Javert Claus excuse themselves from the lobby for just a moment, pulled aside when Javert's pager rings and calls both men away to the basement's imaging department for a minor emergency. Despite the protests from Cosette and Courfeyrac, Valjean promises that they'll return as soon as they can.

Musichetta, Marius, Bossuet, and Bahorel have all foregone the Secret Santa, each member of their group instead wishing to make small gifts for everyone- they sit snuggled close and warm though, and the cup of friendship runneth over as not a single face can hide a content smile. 

This is family, the soul of it all. 

With a very important clearing of his throat and a sweep of an imperious gaze over the crowd now looking at him, Courfeyrac holds his thin, rectangular gift wrapped in newspaper and announces that he is going to go first, since he did organize this whole 'shabang'. Bahorel poorly attempts to hide his crude laugh behind a cough, and when he leans in to Grantaire, both men giggle raucously at 'she-bang'. 

Courfeyrac throws the hecklers a stern look before laughing himself, the sound as bright as a bell, and no one mentions that Combeferre's flushing almost as red as the holly on the hanging mistletoe. "Alright, alright. Let's see..." His hands rip excitedly at the newspaper, not caring that most of the scraps now fall over Enjolras' lap, and he gasps when he holds up a framed picture. No one else can see the picture at first, except for Enjolras, whose eyebrows rise, and he immediately looks to Grantaire.

Grantaire peers back and puts Combeferre's blush to shame, but he shifts nervously and waves his hand, "I had you, Fey. I hope that it's okay." His words are meek, and of course, Courfeyrac's reaction is the exact opposite. 

"HOLY SHIT!"

Gleefully, Courfeyrac hops to his feet and proudly displays his gift- a hand-drawn picture of the entire clinic staff, based off of Courfeyrac's favorite picture of all of his friends that was his phone background for years. The details in the picture are so lifelike that everyone leans forward and squints in awe to observe the masterpiece. Grantaire hides his face in his hands, but that doesn't stop Courfeyrac from jumping on the dark-haired man and covering him with kisses and hugging him until he relented his pessimism for the sake of accepting his friend's support.

"Grantaire, my gorgeous hunk of a man, this is the best gift ever and I am going to hang it right here in the lobby!!!"

"Ugggggh okay I guess..." With good humor, Grantaire shoves the smaller man off before ignoring how Enjolras isn't even trying to be subtle with his staring. Any other time, the golden god's attention would make his dreams come true, but now after feeling like he is just starting to get to know the real man, getting to know Enjolras, the intensity of his gaze is enough to make Grantaire shiver.

Courfeyrac cradles his present to his chest and sighs happily, his dimples deep in his wide smile, and he turns to his right to where Feuilly sat. "You're turn, my Feuilly-dear~," and the redhead man peels away the bright blue wrapping paper and opens the box it covers. Joly doesn't hide the fond grin as his present brings a gleeful laugh from Feuilly, praise from Jehan, and a groan of agony from Bahorel. Feuilly quickly removes his functional winter boots and replaces them with his new bright yellow crocs, styled with jibbitz in the shape of a palm tree, a sun wearing sunglasses, a fan, and worst of all- a Minion. They're awful and Feuilly performs a quick fashion show before giving Joly a warm hug.

Next in the group sits Cosette, and everyone looks slightly puzzled when her gift is in the form of a giant purple-velvet sack, at least 2 feet tall and about the same in diameter, lumpy and heavy. She bends over and fusses with the silky rope that ties at the top, and once opening the top of the bag, gasps and pulls her hands up to cover her mouth in delight. Combeferre pushes his glasses up his nose as he clears his throat, "I-if you couldn't tell...it's the biggest bag of homemade candy from the local candy store downtown- 10 pounds, to be exact." 

"Oh Ferre...oh this is just perfect! I don't have to worry about the candy jar running out, and there'll be enough for Enjolras left over!" Cosette pushes herself off of her chair and wraps her arms around the taller man's shoulders- the two are nearly the same height with Combeferre sitting and Cosette standing, but he nods and pats her back before she pulls away and offers everyone a treat before sitting back down.

Jehan blows a bubble with their chewing gum and pops it as musical fingers drum a gentle beat over their present- an aggressively wrapped and box-shaped thing- and Éponine proudly calls out that it's from her as they tear away the paper. "It's a new home for Sasha Flute Jr.! Eponine! You brilliant moon child, oh my love will rest so happily here!" They hold up a beautifully decorated flute case, the hard outer shell carefully painted with the yellow, white, purple, and black of the nonbinary pride flag. Éponine gets cheek kisses and a happy melody composed on the spot with Jehan's beloved flute before they rest their instrument inside its new home.

With all of the precision of a lab technician sampling blood, Combeferre inspects every corner of his professionally wrapped gift, and clever fingers slowly unfold each corner of wrapped paper. Courfeyrac whines with impatience and Enjolras kicks his ankle to get him to hush, which then makes Courfeyrac pout and Enjolras to poke at his cheek.

Grantaire isn't watching, nope. Not at all.

Combeferre finally reveals his gift as Feuilly crosses his arms across his chest and calls out, "I hope you don't already have that book, Combeferre!" With a quick shake of his mused brown hair, Combeferre smiles fondly and already skims over the first few pages of his new Entomology guidebook. Tucked along with the book is a delicate silver glasses chain, and the taller man murmurs a very pleased 'thank you' while Feuilly smiles warmly back- neither man the touchy-feely type, so thankful glances are perfectly acceptable.

"Finally, sheesh! Of course, I get stuck going after the slowest present opener in the world!" Éponine dramatically flops back against the squishy beanbag before shooting back up to rip at her present- the dark-haired woman receiving a thick envelope. Inside, she scoffs and shakes her head, sparkling dark eyes peering up as Courfeyrac wiggles in his seat. "You're such a weirdo, Fey..." After reading the message inside, Éponine passes the card along to her friends, so they too have to bear witness to the professional pictures of Courfeyrac gracing the cover of the card with the message 'Here's to Hoping Your Holidays are Merry, Gay, and Bright' over his dorky face.

"Love you, Ép!" Courfeyrac's smirk grows wider as Éponine's eyes widen as she unwraps the smaller note hidden inside the card, and she huffs out a weak "I hate you," before scrambling up and gripping Courfeyrac tightly. After the embrace ends, Eponine roughly wipes at her watery eyes and turns to the others to explain. "It's a gift card to this really nice restaurant that I've been wanting to take Cosette to for months- the wait list is hella long and it's so expensive I couldn't ever justify going, but Courf...ah, damnit. Cosette, we're going on a dinner date next Friday, okay?" Cosette cheers and makes grabby hands for her girlfriend so they can kiss- after, Éponine carefully tucks away the gift card into her pocket for safe keeping.

One of her dark combat boots kicks out at Grantaire's leg, indicating that it's his turn next. 

"I...uh..." Ten pairs of eyes turn to look at him, and Enjolras looks down at his lap.

"There wasn't anything in the pile for me."

Silence. Silence, even though Éponine's joy melts into a very scary scowl, but before anyone can say anything else, Enjolras stands up.

"It's not something that can be wrapped."

Oh.

"Oh?" Grantaire raises an eyebrow as he responds, and he can't even be surprised- of course Enjolras has him for the Secret Santa. Even Courfeyrac looks serious as he stands as well, one hand supporting the blond by gently patting his middle back. 

"Follow me, okay?"

"Okay."

Grantaire rises, for who is he to deny Enjolras anything, if he wants him to follow him off of a bridge, into a busy street, into the gaping maw of hell itself, Grantaire will go like Orpheus to find his love.

The others all stand too because this is a family affair, but Enjolras only has eyes for Grantaire as the taller man leads his friends in a shuffling horde from the clinic and out to the main hospital. Soft chatter filters in from behind him, Jehan whispering something to Combeferre, Bahorel's baritone carrying over Cosette's soprano, and the halls are mostly empty as Enjolras directs them along passageways and around corners, a maze of clinical monotone.

When they stop, Grantaire doesn't know what he's looking at.

Enjolras has them stopped in front of a wide set of wooden double doors that seem to indicate a divide between hospital wings. There are a few fake potted plants lining the walls, and the overhead intercom announces a Code Blue in the ER. Éponine seems to catch on faster than Grantaire, because she steps up beside her best friend and points his attention up towards the words above the doorway.

 


St. Denis Hospital Hospice Unit



In Memory of Fantine



 'Her Love Will Never Die'


 

His friends all break out into a ensemble of 'oohs' and 'aahs' and Grantaire can feel gentle hands patting his back and ruffling his curls, happy kisses press to his cheeks, but he can't seem to peel his gaze away from the words, gold plated and shining new, displayed above the ward's door.

Enjolras hasn't said a word to him yet though, also looking up at his gift to Grantaire, a shine in his eyes the only indication of the crashing emotions within.

Grantaire sniffles and finally breaks into a weak smile, his green eyes turning from the words to turn to the blond. The only person he really notices in this moment.

"H-hey..."

Enjolras blinks, his mind obviously far away from the present, but he greets the shorter man with a little grin of his own, "Hey."

Courfeyrac pops up between the two men and interrupts their unspoken 'thank you' with an impish grin, and he claps both on the shoulders and gleefully turns them around to follow after where their friends are already heading back down the halls and back towards the clinic. The smaller man smacks both of the other men on the ass before slipping away, but not without crowing out, "You two are soooooo gonna hug later. I bet you're even going to full on snuggle!" 

Enjolras double checks to make sure there are no other hospital-staff in sight before both he and Grantaire flip off their terrible friend. 

As they walk after the group, their hands brush, and Grantaire doesn't comment on how Enjolras' pinky links with his own.

It's divine.

It's great.

In the clinic everyone returns to their seats and are joined again by Mr. and Mx. Claus, and Valjean takes advantage of having free reign over the dessert table while Javert pokes around at the hanging decorations as though searching for some code violation he can report later.

Once settled, it is determined that Joly is next, so the petite doctor lifts his gift bag and unfurls the tissue paper. Out of the red and silver peppermint stripped bag comes a sparkling white, brand new lab coat, with Cosette's beautifully precise hand-stitched 'Dr. Joly' displayed in rainbow letterings on the front pocket. Joly and Cosette blow air kisses to one another, catching them, and then throwing them back, until both are asked to please stop because they are polluting the air with cuteness.

Last out of the group comes Enjolras, stalwartly avoiding all of his friend's catcalls and jeers, whose gift is a lump wrapped in silks. Jehan, of course, is the culprit behind the gift, and they explain that the ethically sourced recycled silk is far more environmentally friendly than cardboard or wrapping paper, which they know Enjolras will appreciate.

"I do, thank you, Jehan," And Enjolras means it sincerely, and when he unwraps the silk to lift a beautifully made clay mug, he accepts his gift as though it is the most beautiful thing he has ever seen. Along the sides curl beautiful wildflowers, proud gladiolus, red camellias, pale chamomile, and vibrant nasturtiums.

"For strength, the fire of your spirit, your patience in adversity, and your victory in all your battles, big and small," Jehan explains as they kiss the top of Enjolras' forehead, earning a pleased and quiet 'thank you' again from their leader, holding the mug so carefully and tracing the flowers with his fingertip.

With the gift exchange complete, small conversations resume and Bossuet dangles the mistletoe above each couple, and with each festive kiss the group cheers or gags, depending on who you ask. Courfeyrac nearly tackles Combeferre off the beanbag, and Musichetta flushes and giggles when both her boyfriend's swoop in for kisses. Cosette kisses everywhere on Éponine's face except for her lips, and Javert very reluctantly presses a quick peck to Valjean's cheek. Bahorel and Feuilly do a very gay, romantic interpretation of a holiday movie fairytale kiss, and Jehan allows Grantaire to pull them down for a sloppy smooch. 

This all devolves into anarchy when all that's left is Marius and Enjolras, Marius blinking expectantly up at the blond, and Enjolras looking as though he is looking at a squished bug under his shoe (Combeferre says: the horror!). Because it's the winter holidays and everyone is in great spirits, Courfeyrac saves his best friend's dignity by announcing that the last one out to the parking lot for their annual snowball fight is a heterosexual.

Everyone scrambles for their coats, gloves, and hats, a flurry of movement in the room, and the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic, their significant others, and Marius, all race out of the lobby and into the chilly winter air.

Enjolras helps tug Grantaire's beanie overtop his curls, and Grantaire makes sure that Enjolras' mittens- fucking fuzzy black mittens- are snugly secured. They race out along with the group, and Marius is a good enough sport to come out last.

And just like that, the epic snowball fight is /on/.

The Great Battle of St. Denis Hospital Parking Lot, December 2023.

This is the final plot-relevant chapter! I hope you've enjoyed this little adventure!Next chapter is for naughty business :)

Just as the Battle of Waterloo took place three miles south of the actual town of Waterloo, The Great Battle of St. Denis Hospital takes place in the frozen tundra of the West entrance employee parking lot, far from the warmth and safety of the Specialty Diagnostics Clinic. 

Soldiers and captains scatter, and a war cry indicates the start of the battle.

Jehan is the first to fall, the young pacifist refusing to bring harm to their fellow participants and finds themself pelted from all directions with multiple snowballs. It also doesn't help that they have walked out, hands raised in surrender, to the very center of where the rest of their friends find cover behind parked vehicles and lamp posts.

What's left of their fallen form consists of more snow than Jehan, and they make peace with their conscientious objection by settling down in the snow to form beautiful snow angels.

Bossuet is terminated next, taken out by his own clumsiness; in his attempt to duck and hide behind Grantaire's car he receives a snowball directly to the face courtesy of Éponine, who shouts out, "Sorry not sorry, Boss!" With a good-natured salute, the bald man scurries behind the barrier Joly and Musichetta have erected to have his gory wounds tended to. Musichetta lofts snowball after snowball at anything that moves while Joly fusses over their boyfriend, confirming that no actual damage was done to his smooth skin and peppering Bossuet with smooches.

Marius takes a well-aimed snowball from Valjean to the face and rolls over to join Jehan in their biblically accurate snow-angel replications.

Javert is ruthless in his ambush, eliminating Bahorel first with a snowball hurled straight at the burly man's abdomen. Next, Musichetta falls with a pained cry, followed by Courfeyrac and Éponine. The corporate business boss hasn't even broken out in a sweat as he stalks around the shadows of a streetlamp.

Feuilly abandons his lover's fallen form- Bahorel does an excellent job of playing 'dead' face down in the snow- and the fast-acting medical assistant groups up with Enjolras and Grantaire in an act of comradery. His hat is long lost in the fray which leaves his hair wild and his cheeks ruddy from the cold.

Combeferre drags Courfeyrac out of the line of fire and cradles his boyfriend's head on his lap, and he catches the smaller man's playful wink before they act out his very dramatic and Shakespearean-worthy death scene.

There is a lot of use of 'thee' and 'thou' and Grantaire sends a well-aimed snowball sailing out to hit Combeferre directly in the chest. The slaughtered man's glasses are covered in a thin film of white from the burst of snow, and Combeferre falls overtop his lover with a moan of despair and woe.

The two then break out into giggles before they shift to cuddle close to conserve warmth and observe the rest of the epic fight.

An epic standoff between Joly and Javert commences: the petite doctor uses the cover built by his lovers to keep from any aggressive snowballs from finding their mark while Javert uses his tactical advantages of height and speed to try and wear his opponent down.

In a final moment that best suited a slow-motion battle on the big screen, both Joly and Javert hit each other in the face with their chilly artillery. Both men crumple, Joly slumps against Bossuet, and Javert in good spirits, faints into the arms of Valjean who is ready and waiting to catch him as he falls.  

The two matching Santa Clauses cling to one another in their final moments, Javert flushing furiously as Éponine and Grantaire wolf whistle, and Valjean gazing down tenderly at the younger man in his arms. They look like they might even kiss, but Cosette, wielding snowballs two-handed, performs a risky yet brilliant maneuver and runs out from her hiding spot.

She first hits Valjean with one snowball before her second toss catches Feuilly right in the ass as the other man pushes the originally-targeted Enjolras out of the way to safety.

"No!" Enjolras cries out when his friend falls, reaching out for Feuilly as the ginger collapses to the ground before him, but Grantaire grabs the blond by the collar of his coat and drags him back from certain death. "Don't let his sacrifice be in vain, Apollo. C'mon, we can take her out- two versus one!"

Enjolras, with snowflakes peppering his golden curls and his eyelashes, looks like some fearsome angel of vengeance as he ruminates over Grantaire's words. He's right, and Feuilly's outstretched hands twitch up into a double thumbs up in approval. 

Cosette stalks around Musichetta's pink Volkswagen Beetle, her own blonde hair wild and her smile is terrifying. Grantaire looks to his right and then to his left, and frowns. They're caught between the tire and Feuilly's gigantic pickup truck- there's not enough room or time to squeeze them both through. 

He turns to Enjolras for what could be the last time.

"Go, there's still time for you to run. I'll hold her off!"

"No, you idiot, I'm not going to leave you!" 

"For once, Enjolras, just listen to me! There's a chance that you can win this! C'mon!"

"No, Grantaire."

Grantaire gives Enjolras a light shove, but the taller man stays stubbornly in place, and if anything does the more stubborn thing by rising to his feet and firmly standing his ground as Cosette turns the corner and eyes her prey.

With a curse under his breath, Grantaire scrambles up as well, joining his...um, his friend?

His friend who holds his pinky and his hand and makes his stomach swoosh and his dreams to be filled of terribly soft ideas?

Yeah, sure, his friend...anyways, he looks up to Enjolras while the other man tilts his head up with a daring gleam in his beautiful eyes.

"Any final words, boys?" Cosette cocks a hip and palms at the one large snowball between her gloves- the frozen sphere big enough to take out two grown men.

This is it.

This is how Grantaire dies, with Enjolras at his side, and Cosette finally snapping. 

He's pretty sure a fortune teller read this on his palm before.

"Two at one shot. Will you permit it?" He breathes, Grantaire holding out a hand and smiling.

Enjolras, bless him, turns his fierce gaze from their adversary and immediately his expression softens to one that Grantaire is sure he'll never, ever forget. It's the single most beautiful sight he's ever beheld.

He holds his hand, and Grantaire is met with cold death.

Well, not death, but he squeals from the blast of cold that knocks him back a step and has Enjolras bitterly flapping his mittens at his face.

Cosette cackles viciously and Éponine is the first to come bounding from around the side of the cars to find the three huddled together.

The dark-haired girl proudly cheers and leads the victory parade around the battlefield, every soldier and captain rising up to join one another in cheerful rejoicing.

Éponine keeps Cosette's hands tucked close against her chest, the smaller warrior's gloves soaked through from her commitment to the fight, and Éponine presses kisses to the tops of her knuckles before hiding them back between her own.

With their friends chattering and dancing around them underneath the falling snowflakes, Cosette catches her breath and smiles up at her girlfriend. "That felt SO good!" Éponine throws back her head with a laugh and when she looks back down, the blonde steals away her response by dropping to one knee.

Courfeyrac, being the first to notice, literally screams, which in turn causes the rest of the group to turn to see what the fuss is, before more screams and shouts and gasps join the chorus of breathless delight.

Éponine's dark eyes widen, and her hands freeze in their grip with Cosette's as the other woman continues to speak with her proud smirk softening.

"But...I know that nothing feels better than being with you, Éponine...the past years with you have been absolutely magical. When I was little, I would dream of a castle on a cloud, of a better life, and here you've made all of my dreams come true and they're so much better than I could have ever imagined. I love you forever, and my sweetheart..."

Her hands aren't even shaking anymore, not from cold and not from nerves, and Cosette reaches into her coat pocket to pull out a little black box which she opens to reveal a simple silver band, inlaid with delicate flowery details.

Grantaire joins Courfeyrac in ugly crying, the two men clinging to one another in the periphery of the two girls who have eyes for no one but each other.

Éponine remains silent for a very long moment, her eyes fixed intensely on Cosette's bright, hopeful blues. Cosette's lips curl into a softer smile and she presses a kiss to Éponine's fingers.

 

"Will you marry me?"

 

Jehan weeps, Javert angrily swipes the tears that dare fall from his eyes, and Bahorel openly cries against Feuilly's shoulder.

"Yes...fucking hell, yes!" Éponine breaks from her shock with a gasp, and she throws herself against her FIANCÉE and nearly knocks her back against the snowy ground. Both women cling to one another, Cosette murmuring her love over and over against the shell of the other's ear, while Éponine kisses at any place she can get to while allowing the blonde to slip the ring onto her finger. 

Musichetta cheers, Combeferre and Joly applaud and call out their compliments, Valjean comes flying over to help both girls stagger up and kisses both their cheeks until they're all pink, and Enjolras has the good humor to shake Cosette's and Éponine's hands as though congratulating them on a promotion instead of romantic endeavors. 

Everyone then rushes in, and their blond leader finds himself in the very middle of a giant group hug- one that leaves him and Javert grumbling and marching back from the parking lot to the office leaving the others to follow.

Grantaire isn't far behind, but not before giving Éponine the biggest and best hug that he's ever given in his entire life and warning Cosette that if she harms a hair on his best friend's head, he'll have to hunt her down.

It's a lame threat, since Cosette's terrible war crimes from ten minutes ago still haunt him as he brushes snow from his shoulder and strides back into the hospital and back to the clinic along with his friends.

His actual, truly awesome friends.

and Enjolras, of course.

Jehan and Courfeyrac both call for a round of hot cocoa and both mutually appoint both Enjolras and Grantaire as the official cocoa-masters, which means that the two men are shooed away to the breakroom while the others peel out of their winter outerwear and warm up with some dancing and desserts.

Upon entering the breakroom to fetch mugs, cocoa powder packets, and enough bags of mini marshmallows to earn a place in a high school mathematics' test (courtesy of Bahorel and a loophole with a coupon), Grantaire twirls and hums happily as the warmth of his friend's proposal buzzes through his mind and his limbs.

He has had so many late-night chats with Éponine in which the younger woman bemoaned the idea of trying to come up with a way to propose to her beloved, nothing quite good enough, nothing just right.

But Cosette, that brilliant and terrifying lady, knows how to cut out the bullshit and go right in for what she wants. 

Grantaire smiles dopily.

The artist barely catches himself in time as he accidentally twirls against his breakroom companion, and curses as Enjolras freezes with two mugs of boiling water precariously gripped in each hand.

It's a close call, but thankfully neither man is injured in any way except for Grantaire's jovial mood. The mugs are carefully settled on the countertop where Grantaire focuses his attention on not being a nuisance.

Enjolras remains abnormally quiet.

Now, Grantaire has come to find that the blond is naturally reserved in most situations that don't involve fighting corporate monsters or slaying bigot's shitty opinions, but he's astute enough to tell that conversation is being purposefully avoided.

Huh.

His tongue presses hard against the back of his teeth as he dares a glance over at the other man, watching Enjolras carefully measure each mug with the perfect amount of water from the hot water tank attached to the coffee maker. Grantaire rips the cocoa mix packet he's fiddling with too roughly when his anxious thoughts are interrupted by a soft humming sound.

It's not coming from the lobby- most of those noises are muffled, and it's certainly not coming from him.

It's Enjolras.

Enjolras, his lips breaking into a smile as gentle as the sunrise Grantaire gets to view before he goes to sleep in the morning, is humming a festive song as he works on filling up the last of the mugs.

Grantaire blinks once, then twice, and then once more again for good measure, before swaying to bump his hip against the taller man's.

Enjolras loses his place in the song for a moment but doesn't stop smiling, and instead grabs at the last mug- his awful red and green favorite mug- and makes sure to nod at the Grantaire as he carefully fills the cup with the last bit of hot water.

Taking his cue to continue their little melody, Grantaire chuckles softly before resuming Enjolras' song, at first awkward and raspy because he can't quite believe that this is actually happening and Enjolras is fucking shining as though this is the most fun he's had all day, and that damn mug is held out for Grantaire to take and he puts in two packets of cocoa mix because that gorgeous, terrible man is humming along as he sings.

Enjolras, a little off key but still helplessly perfect, takes one of Grantaire's chocolate-powder covered hands and tugs him away from his station- all mugs properly mixed- and tilts his head to the side in a silent question of, 'is this okay?'.

Is this okay? 

Grantaire is still singing, Enjolras' humming is softer now but still leading the song, and Enjolras lets the shorter man put his arms on his waist while his own slender arms settle over Grantaire's shoulders. Dark blue-grey eyes lower as he allows his thumb to run over the strong slope from the bottom of Grantaire's neck down to his bicep.

It's slow and purposeful, and Grantaire feels as though his skin left behind from Enjolras' touch is on fire, even underneath the sweatshirt he's wearing.

They sway to otherwise unheard music, both their voices fading with the end of the song, with the only rhythm coming from the steady beats of their hearts along with the distant chatter accompanied by soft music.

"Hey," Enjolras is the first to break their reverie of simply being in one another's presence, not breaking the warmth enveloping Grantaire, but startling a gulp because he is in so deep, his hands are on Enjolras' hips, and if he's told to stop, he'll stop, but it might just kill him.

"H-hey."

Enjolras obviously hears the trepidation in his voice and his gaze noticeably softens.

Grantaire dies a thousand deaths at the sight.

"Look up~" 

Grantaire obeys, and Enjolras breaks away from losing himself in those dark green eyes to look up as well, spotting the perfectly placed mistletoe hanging from the ceiling above where they stand.

"Oh," Grantaire murmurs.

"Mmhm," Enjolras agrees.

Luckily, his heavy-handed attempts at seduction pay off, because Enjolras finds that he rather likes how Grantaire's lips feel desperately pressing against his own, the dark-haired man immediately shivering into their first kiss. 

They part for just a moment, Enjolras flushed as dark as his shirt, and Grantaire huffing softly and gazing in amazement up at the man who is allowing him this.

This is heaven.

To kiss Enjolras is to come home after a long day out in the bitter cold, to bask in the warmth and heat and the promise of something sweet.

Grantaire trembles and nudges his nose up to bump against the blond's warm cheek, lips seeking his again, and Enjolras responds with a pleased sigh. The arms wrapped around Grantaire's neck tighten, and Grantaire feels gentle tugs at the ends of his curls before he realizes that Enjolras is twisting his hair around delicate fingers.

Holy shit, he really must be dreaming.

A pinch to Enjolras' ass earns him a yelp and a light smack at his chest, but it's enough to have him erupt into gleeful laughter while the taller man pouts and rubs at his sore butt. 

"What was that for, you jerk?" Enjolras closes the distance between them as Grantaire tries to wiggle away from any further revenge, and the two men playfully poke and pinch at one another before finding themselves kissing again.

This time, Enjolras crowds Grantaire back against a counter and lifts his hands to caress over the rough stubble on his cheeks and neck, Grantaire in turn bites a bit harder at his partner's bottom lip while his own hands dare to travel lower to caress under where the other's shirt rides up to reveal the hints of soft skin at his waist.

Their breathing is ragged and Enjolras whines as his hips rock against where Grantaire's leg has shifted up against him, and Grantaire is just about to lower his mouth to breathe a kiss to the blond's warm neck when a third party's gasp harshly interrupts their clandestine meeting.

"Hooooooooly shit! I knew it! I called it! Combeferre, you owe me $20! Cough it up, you too Jehan. Valjean, you as well! C'mon!" Courfeyrac throws his hands triumphantly up into the air and hollers, startling Enjolras back away from Grantaire as though burned.

Grantaire has a trail of saliva fucking running down his chin, and Enjolras quickly huffs and grabs two mugs of previously abandoned cocoa. He shoves them against Courfeyrac's stretched out hands before whirling around, grabbing Grantaire who is still numbly blinking at the intrusion, and marches him out of the breakroom and down the hall. 

At first it looks like Enjolras is going to move them to the medical supply closet, but that would be far too cliche, so instead the blond pointedly ignores his friend's cat-calling and pulls Grantaire back farther to the corporate office. 

Grantaire is no fool and forces his numb legs to carry him as best he can after this gorgeous man.

He'll follow him anywhere.

To his death, even.

To be fair, if they keep kissing like that, his heart might just give out and he'll have to be carried upstairs to the ICU.

Enjolras slams the office door shut and locks it firmly, and Courfeyrac has the self-preservation skills to not try and follow them.

Instead, with a glittering smile and warmth blossoming in his chest, Courfeyrac swoons his way down the hall and back out to the lobby to join with his friends in continuing in their celebration.

Cosette hasn't let go of Éponine's hand since coming inside, both women sharing a bench and sharing silent conversations with their foreheads pressed together. The others dance, drink, eat, and make merry- Jehan composes a great ballad commemorating their snowball fight, to which Bahorel and Marius reenact each member's dramatic and heroic death. 

Courfeyrac settles down where Combeferre has taken residence on the 'borrowed' couch, and he hums as familiar arms wrap around his shoulders and pulls him close. 

"Hey," Combeferre whispers, pressing a light kiss to his temple. 

With a purr, Courfeyrac curls closer and closes his eyes, "Hey~"

Enjolras and Grantaire return to the party later in the evening, a few buttons missing and curls wild, and join their friends once again. 

 


'Cause I don't even care about the time I've got left here

The only thing I know now is that I want to spend it

With you, with you, nobody else here



Tonight is gonna be the loneliest


Just a whole buncha smut/fluff for ya'll- the scene with Courfeyrac & Combeferre occurs after the Medical Supply closet intervention, and Enjolras & Grantaire's scene comes after their initial first kisses in the breakroom! Woo!

I shall not apologize for this, Happy Pride- be safe, be good.This chapter does feature sexual encounters of the gay sort, but I do want to keep the 'Mature' rating so the juiciest bits are gently glossed over, but just be prepared because it's pretty obvious what these funky guys are doing lol!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)



"I would say that was a successful intervention, honey. Good work."


It's not like Courfeyrac has a praise kink or is obsessed with Combeferre's voice and face and smell and body and... everything about him, and it's not like the medical supply closet is dark and quiet and far away from where the rest of their friends congregate to begin the holiday party.

Sure, Éponine, Grantaire, and Enjolras are all still there too, three pairs of eyes warily watching them as Courfeyrac's heated gaze roves shamelessly up and down his boyfriend's attractive frame, and Combeferre has the common sense to blush and rub his hand against the back of his neck in response.

Courfeyrac doesn't show pity upon his friend's palpable discomfort and takes a step closer to his bespectacled man and runs a hand right up the center of his chest, his fingertips lightly tracing over the fuzzy squares of periodic elements spelling out 'Merry Xmas, Nerds'.

Combeferre has literally never looked sexier, in Courfeyrac's very experienced opinion.

He can hear Grantaire gulp in despair while Combeferre shivers under the delicate touch. That only makes Courfeyrac's wicked grin widen, "I had a dream that my family surprised me with an intervention..."

Their crowded gathering of five quickly becomes an intimate party of two as their three victims finally escape from their encroaching death-by-pun. The medical supply closet is suddenly filled with light from the clinic's main hallway as three retreating figures stumble out of the room and back towards the safety of the lobby.

Combeferre doesn't look away from Courfeyrac as he nudges the door closed with his foot and firmly locks the handle once it's closed. One of his eyebrows raises expectantly as Courfeyrac stretches up on his tiptoes to breathe a kiss and a follow-up against Combeferre's already slightly parted lips.

"It was a good wake-up call."

"Fuck me."

"Mmm...getting to it, " Courfeyrac melts against Combeferre's hungry kiss and allows for his boyfriend to try and taste the remnants of his terribly funny pun from the inside corners of his mouth. Everything inside his brain goes a bit fuzzy and all he can do is clutch tightly to the front of Combeferre's nerdy sweater and press their hips closer.

Combeferre pulls away first and fights (and fails) to keep his voice steady as Courfeyrac's lips explore lower down what skin is exposed at his throat. He feels the sharp sting of the other's teeth and immediately lifts a hand to cradle the back of his lover's head. His long fingers thread through beloved dark brown curls but stays mindful of the silver barrettes.

"I-I meant it, you were brilliant handling them...I think they have a...a-ahh...mm, Fey...I think they have a chance at...o-oh c'mon, don't tease..." Combeferre grunts when he feels his partner press the gentlest, tickling butterfly kisses with his eyelashes up his neck and back up to the underside of his jaw. The hand curled into Courfeyrac's hair pulls a bit more firmly and earns him a pleased sigh from the other, and Courfeyrac's head is forced to pull away with a soft wet sound that leaves both men groaning into the space between them.

The distant sounds of feet shuffling, talking, and music are nothing more than background buzz as Courfeyrac's expression softens to one of pure adoration, and he meets Combeferre's swollen mouth in a gentler kiss. With the door to the medical supply closet locked, and the warnings to avoid their space surely set by their witnessing friends, they savor the brief period of time they make for themselves.

Combeferre guides Courfeyrac back a few paces away from the door before the shorter man smoothly swivels them around to force Combeferre down onto one of the two therapy chairs. The unused chair is bumped aside before Courfeyrac glances down at the gorgeous man sitting in front of him- Combeferre's brown hair falls a bit into his eyes, and his chest is heaving slightly with trying to catch his breath. 

"Keep telling me how brilliant I am, 'Ferre. Just keep talkin'...and relax. I have a present just for you." Courfeyrac bites his lower lip as he watches the other's visceral reaction to his softly spoken words and continues to torture his lover for a moment more as he leans down for a painfully chaste kiss.

Combeferre tries to chase after the other's sinful mouth, but Courfeyrac positions himself comfortably on his knees in between Combeferre's parted thighs, and immediately the lab technician's jaw clenches shut with a rough 'click' as he reads the other's body language and realizes what exactly he means by 'present'.

"Talk." 

With orders to talk, Combeferre talks.

He babbles.

Anything and everything that comes to mind falls tumbling from his lips in order to urge Courfeyrac to continue. With a pleased gleam in his eyes, Courfeyrac hums in approval as Combeferre retells the plan to lure Enjolras and Grantaire into the supply closet early before the holiday party, how Courfeyrac had researched the most appropriate approaches to helping two very stubborn, very gay assholes to communicate. 

Combeferre shudders and lifts his hips as Courfeyrac's hands push up underneath the fabric of his sweater and splay along his waist, the edge of short nails pressing against his skin and making him half hard already. God, it really doesn't take much from Courfeyrac to make Combeferre lose every sense of his reason and calm, and by the time his khakis are bunched awkwardly around his ankles and Courfeyrac's lips are mouthing kisses along the curve of his erection still trapped in his briefs, Combeferre's words become scattered, interjected with curses and moans of the other's name.

"C-courf...oh my...yes, please..." Behind his glasses, his pupils are blown with lust, dark and steel, and one of his hands grips the side of the metal chair to keep from sliding off while his other tugs at Courfeyrac's hair with as much consideration of his partner's wellbeing as he can muster when Courfeyrac lazily kisses the tip of his cock, the wetness coming away on his lips.

Combeferre stares, mouth gaping.

"Please what, Ferre?"

Combeferre doesn't beg, and he doesn't whimper, but he grinds his hips up in a feeble attempt to relieve the growing pressure there, knowing he's not going to last much longer if Courfeyrac continues his teasing.

"I-I would really.../really/ like my present n-now. I-I bet you've been thinking about giving it to me all day...f-fuck, honey...C-courfeyrac..."

Apparently, that was a good enough response, as Courfeyrac's cheeks flush brightly and his eyes shine with pride and excitement, and finally relents and gives Combeferre his present.

It really doesn't take long at all, just a few bobs of those glossy, perfect curls and the sight of Courfeyrac with his cheeks sucked in and lips stretched that sends Combeferre over the edge and groaning as he tilts his head back and rides out his rush of pleasure with a gasp and then a low groan that emanates from deep in his chest.

Courfeyrac pulls back with a satisfied, dreamy smile and allows Combeferre to tug him up and kiss him senseless until they both have to catch their breath. While Combeferre runs his hands up and down Courfeyrac's sides and down to his hips, relishing in his warmth and weight pressed up against him, Courfeyrac pushes back the sweaty hair from Combeferre's sticky forehead and smiles again.

"I love you~"

Combeferre gazes up at his lover's pink-flushed freckly face and is lost for just a moment, giving himself time to soak in every gorgeous feature that he has found himself lucky enough to see in soft moments like this. 

"I love you too. Ardently, completely," Combeferre's murmurs his sweet words, unable to help himself from waxing poetic post-orgasm.

Courfeyrac's eyes crinkle at the corners as Combeferre kisses both of his dimples, and the two men cling to one another for a few moments longer as the lull of release and the quiet sounds of their loved ones down the hall fill the silence.

"I actually have a present for you too," Combeferre admits, but chuckles softly as Courfeyrac waggles his eyebrows suggestively at the idea. "Not that kind of present, not that yours wasn't the best present I think anyone is going to get tonight." That satisfies the smaller man, and Combeferre can't help but steal another kiss to his lips before reaching out to shove away a few boxes of various sized gloves on the shelf next to them. 

Hidden behind the medical supplies is a card that reads 'Courfeyrac <3' in Combeferre's perfectly succinct handwriting, and Courfeyrac grins as he rips open the envelope along the seam and pulls out several pieces of paper, each identical and upon further inspection, show to be tickets.

With a very serious expression, Courfeyrac tugs Combeferre's glasses from their perch on his nose and plops them overtop his own, and he squints as he tries to read with the horrendously thick glasses now obscuring his normally perfect vision.

Combeferre rolls his eyes but tucks his face against Courfeyrac's neck, nuzzling lightly as he listens to the other read what's written on the tickets.

"Rue Plumet: An Experience to Help Reduce Workplace Stress and Improve Employee Morale through physical exertion and teamwork..." Here Courfeyrac gasps as he realizes what the flouncy, corporate-bullshit words actually mean, "Ferre! You got me tickets to bring everyone to a rage room???"

With a gentle kiss to Courfeyrac's cheek, Combeferre nods and smiles back, "Yep. Got it approved through Valjean to count as a 'team building excursion' so we can all go; we're going to close the office half a day early next Friday when everyone already said they're free. Plus-"

Courfeyrac wiggles and tucks the tickets back into the envelope for safe keeping, but he throws his arms around his boyfriend's neck to press close and kiss him between his next words.

"Plus, Mr. Valjean is giving us permission to take the bus." 

Ah, fuck yeah, the bus is a huge, beat-up old, converted school bus that the hospital uses for HR trips or staff-events that require traveling. It has been Courfeyrac's dream to actually get to use the bus.

With a jubilant shout, Courfeyrac maneuvers off of where he is half-straddling Combeferre's thighs and begins a joyful jig around the closet space. Combeferre laughs and after he's cleaned himself up and is dressed again, he helps to try to smooth down Courfeyrac's mused hair. The smaller man practically sparkles as he hums in happiness, taking both of Combeferre's hands in his own to hold.

"Thank you, thank you, thank you! Best. Present. EVER!" 

Combeferre leans down to pluck his glasses off of Courfeyrac's face so that they don't slip down his nose, "Hm, I will argue with you on that. Because I /definitely/ received the best present ever."

"That was pretty good, wasn't it?"

"You're terrible, I hope you know."

Courfeyrac leads the way out of the medical supply closet, still holding Combeferre's hands tightly, and winks over his shoulder in response. The taller man has a moment to compose himself before following after his lover and out into the lobby where the rest of their friends loiter about- Courfeyrac has apparently spotted something interesting and dashes off ahead of him.

With a quick adjustment to his glasses to make sure they're on straight, Combeferre joins him.

- - - - - - - - - - - - -


Enjolras slams the office door shut and locks it firmly, and Courfeyrac has the self-preservation skills to not try and follow them.


Gone is Enjolras' saccharine humming and gentle twisting with the frizzy ends of Grantaire's curls; in its place, he is a whirlwind of busy hands, grabbing, tugging, pulling with desperation as his kisses are more a fierce melding of teeth and tongue and heat. 

Grantaire is pretty sure that Enjolras is actively trying to kill him- his heart thumps so harshly in his chest and in his ears, he can't tell who is moaning and who is growling, and Enjolras' mouthwatering visage disappears from his vision in a sudden claustrophobic flash of green fabric. The two men grapple for a moment, Grantaire twisting awkwardly in his sweatshirt as Enjolras bites back a curse as he helps free his partner of his layers.

"S-shit, sorry...'m already messing this up..." With a bitter curl of his lip, Grantaire drops his gaze, the arousal still coursing through him but not quite strong enough to push aside that little mean voice in his head. He feels suddenly exposed, bare-chested and skin mottled red with his blushing.

He expects for the blond to realize his mistake, to suddenly come to his senses and realize that it's Grantaire he's dragged into the office, to let the repulsion of their communion finally settle in and tear his affection away.

Grantaire isn't allowed much more time to spiral, as Enjolras makes no move to flee.

Enjolras instead kisses him, gentler this time, with both hands having discarded the green sweatshirt in lieu of cupping both of Grantaire's stubbly cheeks. Cradling his face as though he's something fragile to touch.

Something precious.

Grantaire's eyes squeeze shut but he dares not pull back, not when Enjolras' head leans closer, and he makes the most gorgeous sighing sound before positioning their mouths to meld even more firmly together.

Perhaps Enjolras will break him, touching him like this, and Grantaire is pretty sure he'd say 'thank you' if he did.

They both pull away with a gasp, and with a hesitant grin, Grantaire swallows back the dark despair threatening to hollow out his gut. 

Enjolras notices this miniscule shift in the dark-haired man's demeanor and returns the smile tenfold, and Grantaire tilts his face to the side to first nuzzle against the other's soft, warm palm, before pressing a chaste kiss to its soft skin.

The blond man's words come softly, a tone that Grantaire finds foreign and beyond lovely, "I'm sorry too, for dragging you in here without even asking if you wanted to. For that, I apologize. Did you want to get back to the party? I'd understand if you do."

"Fuck no. Hell no- of course-- Enjolras, you have no idea how badly I want this. I-I want you. And if you want me like how I want you, the entire fucking hospital is going to have to burn down around us for me to leave this room right now. Even then, I don't think I'd want to stop. That is...i-if you want that too."

Grantaire's breath is shaky as his mouth presses careful, devoted kisses across Enjolras' wrist, feeling a fluttering heartbeat beneath his lips. Moving onwards when he's not asked to stop, he then delicately cradles one slender arm to kiss up higher.

Enjolras' eyes are lowered, slivers of the most beautiful, darkened blue, watching Grantaire's mouth with an intensity that could bring kingdoms to their knees. Maybe Grantaire, too.

He hopes.

Enjolras, naturally, doesn't remain passive with the tender kisses down his arm, and he allows himself to touch the other as well. His free hand explores across the strong expanse of Grantaire's shoulders and across his chest, feeling overtop scars and blemishes without any sign of disgust.

He looks enraptured and Grantaire wants to weep, but he's too busy mouthing his way towards his lover's shoulder while his own clumsy fingers begin to steadily unbutton his maroon dress-shirt.

"I find myself quite attracted to you, Grantaire, and for a very long time...o-oh, that's um..." Enjolras' voice wavers as Grantaire sucks a heated kiss to the pale dip of skin at the base of his neck, and his golden curls fall over Grantaire's cheeks as his own head slides back to allow the other more room to continue Grantaire's heated touch, "That is nice. But I think that I mistook some of my attraction for you a-as frustration. Frustration because I couldn't understand you. But now I think that we understand each other better?"

Grantaire nods and moans out a muffled 'fuck, yeah' as his lips map out the freshly bared collar bones and warm skin that's been hidden underneath Enjolras' dress shirt. 

It now lays crumpled on the floor against Grantaire's sweatshirt.

Red and green, he'll never escape it, and honestly, he hopes that he never does.

Enjolras tries to shift their bodies closer as Grantaire struggles to find a more comfortable angle to continue exploring with his kisses, and after a quick glance around the cramped corporate office, Enjolras bites his lip and reluctantly steps back. Grantaire whines but lets him go.

He immediately mourns the loss of feeling Grantaire's' firm chest rising and falling with the catches in his breath, but the sudden rush of deprivation doesn't last long.

What he wants to do will be worth the physical pain it causes to part for even a moment.

First, Enjolras makes sure that Grantaire's lust-hazed gaze is on him.

Done, easy, nothing new since Grantaire is often staring at him, even in moments outside of instances of passion.

Second, with a proud little smirk, Enjolras swipes his arm across the desk and effectively knocks off all of both his and Courfeyrac's items to the ground to clear the space. A stapler bounces on the carpet, papers fly scattered, and even Enjolras' laptop is shoved carelessly out of the way.

Grantaire gasps and Enjolras breathes out sharply in delight.

"I've always wanted to do that."

Grantaire's eyes widen at the unexpected act of rebellion his angel of little death acts upon, and to reward his lover's disobedience, Grantaire shows off just a bit of strength by pressing Enjolras backwards before hoisting him up and onto the emptied desk.

Enjolras doesn't fight back against being man-handled and instead wraps his ridiculously gorgeous legs around Grantaire's hips and fucking grinds up against him with a shivering moan.

"F-fuck, Apollo...you can't do this to me...it's not fair," With a whine, Grantaire's fingers curl at the small of Enjolras' back and he dips the seated man back, keeping him supported so that he doesn't lose his balance and smash back against the desk, but keeps him close so that he can mouth worshipful hymns and praises against the smooth, bare expanse of his stomach. 

Enjolras supports the rest of his weight against his elbows, leaning back against the hard wood, and he tilts his head back to moan. He shivers and his eyes flutter closed so that he can focus his attention on how Grantaire's heated kisses and the rough scrape of his beard against his sensitive skin sets his entire body on fire.

It's almost too much, and he arches his back, wordlessly asking for more.

Grantaire wonders if he'll ever recover from this interaction, if he'll ever find pleasure in doing anything other than making love to Enjolras.

He feels intoxicated without the muddling effects of alcohol. Each movement is slow and fluid, each moan loose from his lips, and his skin feels as though it's burning at every juncture that they meet. His mouth tastes each of Enjolras' ribs, his teeth scrape along the curve of his hip, he hears sounds prettier than any heavenly music coming from above him, below him, all around.

Grantaire is pretty sure that hours have passed in mere seconds, and that they've only just begun, and that night has turned into day and into night again, and all he knows is the feel of Enjolras.

They're both completely bared to one another now, rutting and grinding and sliding, thighs pressed firmly and clutching hands leaving red marks against each other's skin. Enjolras finds his voice between his broken whimpers, and his words come out in between gasps of pleasure, "C-courfeyrac is going to be...very displeased...that we're doing this here...ngh..." 

Grantaire is almost too far gone in the rhythmic roll of their hips and the primal sound of skin against skin, but he responds with a bite to Enjolras' shoulder, "Y-you kidding me? He's gonna...fuck...love it...b-but can we not...fuck, Enj...can w-we not talk about Courf when 'm a-about to..."

Together, both men find the mounting pleasure too strong and coming on too fast, and they chase their highs with half-kisses that consists more of Enjolras whispering Grantaire's name over and over while Grantaire sobs out in ecstasy. 

Golden curls plaster gorgeously to Enjolras' forehead as his head falls back slowly, basking in the warmth that settles through his limbs, and Grantaire simply stares at the man in his arms, holding him so tight and ignoring the trembling in his own knees.

"I want to do that again...but properly next time, in a bed," With a satisfied sigh, the blond carefully unwraps his legs from their grapple hold around Grantaire's hips, and he scrunches his nose at the sight of the mess leftover on their stomachs. 

Grantaire can barely hear Enjolras' following words as the other man searches for a box of tissues to try and clean up; he's too busy to notice because in his sex-muddled, Apollo-kissed brain, all he can hear is 'next time'.

Next time.

Enjolras wants to do this again.

In a bed.

With Grantaire.

Grantaire has a bed, he thinks. He's pretty sure. 

"Hey...are you okay?" Startlingly clear blue eyes suddenly appear close, Enjolras is leaning in until their noses almost bump, and Grantaire blinks once, twice, and then a third time before nodding.

He can't help himself and presses a careful kiss against lips he had so recently been biting and bruising, but Enjolras melts a bit and Grantaire doesn't feel too bad.

"Y-yeah. 'm just kind of...ya know."

"'I know', what?"

"Happy, I guess."

"Oh," Enjolras looks thoughtful.

"Yeah," Grantaire adds helpfully.

Enjolras, with his gorgeous confidence and insanely annoying ability to speak coherently post-orgasm, smiles and Grantaire wants to fucking cry.

"I'm happy too."

"Oh," Grantaire closes his eyes and lets their noses nuzzle lightly, and he memorizes the way Enjolras' fingers flutter across his bare chest.

Eventually, once the shakiness in his knees is replaced by the ache that reminds him that he's too fucking old and when Enjolras says that his butt is a 'tad bit sore' (fucking hell, Grantaire groans, he's so so so gone for this awful man), the two men slip away from one another to re-dress and compose themselves.

The party is clearly still ongoing down the hall- Bahorel has found the champagne and Javert is loudly citing all of the rules that forbid delicious bubbly alcoholic beverages from after-hours holiday parties. His stern voice is accompanied by Jehan's gentle flute sounds.

Grantaire helps Enjolras straighten out his collar to try and hide the visible red marks, and Enjolras gently tugs his fingers through a few knots in Grantaire's curls.

It's terrifyingly intimate and lovely.

Hand in hand, with one last kiss for good luck and the promise of 'it's okay, you are loved, you are so loved' shining in their exchanged gazes, Enjolras and Grantaire exit the corporate office and join back in with their friends and their merry making.

Courfeyrac announces that it's time for the final speech of the night, standing on top of the lobby desk to the fond admonishment of both Combeferre and Joly, and raises his cup in a toast.

The rest of the group responds in kind, red solo cups proudly lifted in solidarity. Enjolras presses a gentle kiss to Grantaire's cheek before their friend continues.

"Here's to you, and here's to me! Cheers and love to you all!"

"Cheers and love to you, Courfeyrac!"

YAY! Thank you all for reading through all the way :) Please let me know how you liked this, if there are any corrections/grammatical sins I have made, and if there is anything you'd like to read more of!