Title: Vampire's Hypnotism
Work ID: 49784929
Author: HeartbreakTerrorBird
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Vampires, PWP without Porn, Public Sex, Roleplay, drinking blood obvs, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

The wind is cool, the night is bright, but the fullness of the moon only deepens the shadows of the street. Something in Javert tenses, something in the sudden chill that sweeps over him makes his skin prickle and his muscles tense. He pauses in his rounds, lifts his chin from his scarf and scans the street. Slowly, slowly his eyes search the night until, finally, they set on a shadow, blacker than black, an ominous figure in the open mouth of a back street. Javert recognises the breadth of those shoulders, the glinting of those malevolent eyes. His hand moves down to rest by his belt where his handcuffs rest. Hovering, his hands tremble. He cannot bring himself to close the distance. He should stride forward, close the gap, grasp that devil in his claws and declare once and for all, “Jean Valjean, I will see you in Hell!” but instead his feet find their own way, staggering back, and he turns and continues walking. He is tormented by his guilt, which shows itself in the cool building sweat on his brow, but cannot bring himself to turn back. The sound of footsteps reaches his ears and he realises with mounting dread that his stalker wishes to be heard. Without shame, he bursts into a run.

Pursuit! Pursuit at least! But now it is the hunter who has turned prey- now it is the wolf who flees for his life. There is a tall black iron wrought fence ahead of him and he climbs it and topples over the other side landing with a pained grunt on the grass. He realises he is in a public garden; this is worse somehow as it means it is even less likely that he will find assistance. Still, there are places to hide here. He darts across the grass, around a tall bush and then sights a tight grove of trees which he lunges into, pushing his way through the prickly brambles and dense bushes. Stumbling into a hidden grove he finally stops and looks around. He realises, with horror, that whatever cover the trees give him is outweighed by the audible pounding of his heart. It is no surprise then when Valjean’s broad body moves delicately, and noiselessly into the grove. Javert draws out his gun. It shakes visibly.

“Stop,” he croaks,

“You have led us here,” Valjean says, “Why?”

“You are under arrest-” his voice fails him.

Valjean has not stopped approaching. The light flutters through the leaves and alights on Valjean’s eyes- those terrible, terrible eyes. Javert is paralysed. His gun drops from his grip and lands softly in the dead leaves. It is the vampiric mind-control, it is the vampiric mind-control; that is what he tells himself. Valjean stops only inches from him. They are chest to chest, almost lip to lip. Javert shudders. His knees grow weak. Valjean steps forward once more and Javert stumbles backwards over his own feet and lands in a pile on the leaves, mouth gaping, eyes wide and white with fear. Valjean steps until his feet are either side of Javert’s hips and then he squats and grips Javert’s lapels before tearing his coat in two. Javert should, he should fight back, he should grab the man’s hands and attempt to wrench them loose, but he does nothing. He is paralysed. His hands pressed down into the leaves. His breath comes in short gasps. Valjean’s powerful hands tear apart his shirt next and Javert’s bony chest heaves beneath the moonlight.

“Where should I drink from,” Valjean says softly, voice low and rough.

He lays his broad hand over Javert’s painfully beating heart; it stays there for but a second and then slowly trails down over that lean stomach, through the dark, coarse trail of hair until it reaches Javert’s belt. Beneath that devil’s touch, Javert’s skin goose pimples. That powerful hand slides down over the dark black fabric of Javert’s trousers and finds his semi. Javert’s breath staggers out of him and he grits his teeth. It is the vampiric mind-control- it is the vampiric mind-control! He cannot move, he cannot fight! The sound of tearing fabric and the cool night air chilling his hard cock draws a gasp from him. His torn trousers are dragged down his legs, trapping his ankles and the devil’s hot breath wafts through the soft dark hair of Javert’s thigh,

“From here,” Valjean murmurs.

Or perhaps he says nothing at all and it is Javert’s mind playing tricks on him. Perhaps the vampire only pierces the soft firm flesh of Javert’s inner thigh and sucks. Javert cries out, arching off of the blanket of leaves. His fingers dig grooves in the soft soil. It is agony; a burning heat that draws down and down, down to his thigh and his cock which swells painfully, twitching and dripping over his stomach. Some animal is whimpering painfully and he realises it is him. The wet smack of Valjean’s lips leaving his skin makes his stomach muscles flex. The vampire licks his thigh, warm and wet and so close to his cock it is painful. Valjean looms over him, blocking out the moon,

“I’m not done,” he says and he grabs Javert’s shoulder in one powerful hand and rolls him over onto his elbows and knees. He nudges the back of Javert’s thighs until the man is in position and then spreads his cheeks- Javert whines- and spits on his hole. Javert’s thighs shake and Valjean strokes his hands up and down the length of Javert’s spine in a mockery of tenderness.

Then Valjean’s cock, slick with something, is breaching him, stretching and burning. Javert cries out against the powerful hot yearning inside of him that forces him to rock back on his knees and impale himself on that thick member. He shudders and buries his face in his folded arms, breaths shaking out of him. Valjean’s big hands grasp Javert’s hips and then the night narrows down to nothing but the crisp leaves beneath Javert’s hands, the soft white moonlight, and the meaty slap of Valjean’s hips and balls against Javert’s arse. It takes a while for Javert to realise that he is moaning and then he can’t bring himself to care. The cool night air sweeping over Javert’s back is replaced by the heat and firmness of Valjean’s pecs and powerful stomach muscles, the warmth of his breath rushes over Javert’s neck and cheek,

“Let’s have a taste,” he rumbles and then he bites down on Javert’s neck and shoulder.

Javert wails bucking back on the invading cock. It’s too much, too good; it should not be, it is wicked and wrong but it is so tight and hot, his body winding tighter and tighter with lust and need. The blood rushing from his head leaves his mind empty and the need of his body take the place of any logical thought. Valjean’s lips trace the length of Javert’s neck and he murmurs softly against the shell of Javert’s ear,

“Now, you may spend.”

Javert’s whole body tenses, his face twisting into a painful gurning of need as his orgasm rips through him. Valjean’s hand teases his jumping cock with delicate touches and his breath tickles the short hair on the back of Javert’s neck as he chuckles. Then his powerful hands are pushing Javert face down into the leaves and his hips are snapping, cock plunging deeper- impossibly deeper- until, finally, he groans and releases himself inside. Javert moans alongside him, thighs shivering.

He lays there for some time, chilled by the wind, softened by the rush of pleasure that had overwhelmed him and washed away all fear. Strong hands stroke gently over his back, massaging his muscles, and then slide up to tenderly brush through Javert’s beard.

“Did you enjoy it?” Jean says softly,

“Yes,” Javert grunts, “Yes, yes, very much!”

Jean chuckles, reaches down and draws Valjean up and back against him, cradling him against his chest. He kisses Javert’s neck, where he had bitten him,

“I’m glad. I did too.”

“Maybe next time,” Javert says, in a breathless rush, “you could tie my hands-”

Jean interrupts him with a laugh,

“Yes, my love, you will have everything you want.”

“I wasn’t complaining,” Javert grouses, stroking Jean’s hand where it rests on his hip,

“I know,” Jean murmurs against his neck, pressing soft kisses over the sweat-prickled skin, “when I get you home you can tell me all you want about it…”

And now the best part of the night: retrieving the stored away clothes, getting changed and then being carried home like a babe in Valjean’s arms without the shame of prying eyes. How soft that handsome face is in the moonlight. How those keen, gentle eyes twinkle. Javert rests his head on Valjean’s shoulder and lays a hand over the still heart. Jean glances at him from the corner of his eye, smiles, and then kisses him gently on his forehead. The night will come to an end but by then they will be snuggled, wrapped in one another’s arms in the sanctity of their bed.

 

        