Title: We’ll Meet Again
Work ID: 48891349
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Angst, First Kiss, Madeleine Era, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Valjean was standing in front of him, his face twisted in worry, his eyes full of desperation. Javert could not look at the mayor now. The convict, he corrected his mind.

“Javert…”

Valjean’s voice was soft, so soft that it seemed unnatural to have come from a man as big as him. Everything about the man was unnatural to Javert. His thoughts and actions contradict everything the inspector has ever known. It’s the reason why they’re in this situation in the first place.

The girl, Cosette, was fast asleep in Valjean’s arms, already treating the stranger like he’s been her papa for years and not mere hours. Javert could not look at her, also.

“I said go, Valjean,” he snarled, bearing his teeth as if that will scare the convict away. “Go before I change my mind.”

Valjean didn’t flinch. Instead, he reached for Javert, grabbing the inspector’s arm as if to prevent Javert’s escape. The irony of the situation almost made Javert laugh at his cruel fate.

“Javert,” Valjean said, firmly this time. “They know you were responsible for going after me. You’ll be questioned as to my whereabouts, and I know you do not lie well—“

This time, Javert did laugh. “I’m the inspector, Valjean. The best they have. I can lie, perhaps even terribly, but they’ll take my word for it if they do not want to lose a fearsome member of the police force.”

“But Javert—“

“This girl deserves a life, Valjean. She won’t let go of you, and I’m sure you agree on me with that point.” Javert swallowed, forcing the realization out. “I… I can’t arrest you, despite what the law says, because I do not wish to. It isn’t justice to imprison a good man, a changed man that I have seen with my own eyes.”

Javert realized he was just voicing his thoughts at this point and forced himself to stop. He sighed, tired and defeated. “Leave, Valjean. Take care of the girl.”

The older man didn’t let go of him. Valjean stepped closer, then he raised a battered hand to gently hold Javert’s cheek, which made the inspector jump. Valjean made the man look at him, and Javert could not look away. Valjean’s eyes were wet and full of something Javert was unfamiliar with. Slowly, their lips met in a tender kiss. Javert realized he doesn’t want it to end. But like most things, it did.

As they separated, Valjean had a beautiful smile, sweet and kind. Something Javert never thought would be directed at him of all people. “Thank you, Javert.”

It was said with so much emotion that, for a moment, Javert was silenced. Valjean took a step back, his smile turning sad.

“You’re good man, Inspector. Take care of yourself, you must promise me that.”

Valjean took Javert’s hand and placed a kiss on the back of his palm, reverent and thankful.

“We’ll meet again.”

And with that, Madeleine walked away, leaving Javert alone with the chaos of his emotions.