Title: With an open heart in hell
Work ID: 51192643
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Madeleine Era, Hurt/Comfort
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?


Javert woke up sweating, his body shaking and in what he can only describe as pain. He coughed and forced himself not to vomit. It was one of those days, he thought bitterly. Those days when his exhaustion and hunger finally caught up with him and there is nothing he can do to escape this prison of his own making. Alone in his empty room with nothing but the sounds of his controlled breathing to keep him company.


 


He remembered patrolling the small town of Montreuil-sur-Mer well until sunrise. He remembered passing out on his bed. It was a miracle he even made it to his room. But Javert needed the pay no matter what. Being an Inspector was respectable enough, but the pay was no where near adequate. His last purchase had been to fix a torn spot on his uniform, having been attacked by a drunkard a few weeks ago. To afford it, he made sure not to eat much of anything for weeks, not even buying anything for his wounds. But Javert believes that a little hunger is worth it for the sake of his appearance in the name of the law. 


 


Javert groaned, further dreading the prospect of getting up. He can feel his body punishing him for not eating, not sleeping, not being strong enough. But he has a meeting with Monsieur le Maire and arriving late is unacceptable in the eyes of the law. He has never been late before, and he will not start now. So, Javert forced himself to stand up, and as his feet hit the cold floor, his vision swam, black spots appear, then darkness. 


 


~


 


Madeleine was awaiting the Inspector’s arrival. In the beginning of his years as mayor, the presence of Javert was a terrifying one, one that screams at his conscience to avoid at all costs lest his past be revealed and exposed. But over time, Madeleine has come to appreciate the Inspector for who he is. Yes, the man is intimidating and rigid, but he is loyal and fair most of all. Madeleine is not a fool, he knows Javert has his suspicions about him. He can see the way the tall man looks at him when he thinks the mayor isn’t looking. Javert’s gaze was pensive and thoughtful, as if he was remembering something. And yet, various occasions have transpired wherein the Inspector defended him, the very man he thought to be a convict. One such occasion is when people spread gossip about the mayor behind his back, thinking Madeleine wouldn’t hear, but Javert defended his honor and reputation. There was even an instance where an attack almost hurt the mayor if not for Javert’s quick response. Situations like that blur into one another as Madeleine continues to be mayor for years with the Inspector by his side, slowly chipping away the layer of contempt and fear that he feels about Javert and replacing it with something akin to an understanding.


 


Slowly, they began to talk. Javert’s weekly visits became daily. The afternoons meant for reporting became early dinners and late lunches. Madeleine surprisingly enjoyed spending time with the grumpy man. Javert doesn’t tire him with mindless gossip or overwhelming attention. Javert doesn’t care to fill the air with constant chatter, and like Valjean, he doesn’t mind silence. Their talks are almost always interesting and amusing. Of course, Javert mostly has different opinions than his own, but Valjean has become quite fond of his dry sense of humor and stubbornness. Unexpectedly, their time together makes Madeleine feel safe, ironic as it is, but he can’t help but smile when the Inspector lets his guard down and gives him a grin that many would describe as terrifying but the mayor would see as alluring. He’s seen Javert humoring the children with their play, seen him feeding stray animals. Valjean believes that Javert is a good man, an honest and unenlightened man despite his mislead beliefs. If it is part of his duty to guide Javert to the light then Madeleine is more than willing to try.


 


So, when Javert still hasn’t arrived, Madeleine was beginning to worry. The Inspector was never late. He paced the room anxiously, thinking about what he should do. Deep down, Madeleine wants to believe that Javert is more than an acquaintance, but rather a friend. So, the mayor went down from his office to walk the streets of the town. Before he knew it, his feet had led him to Javert’s lodgings, a bare and simple thing. Now, he stands in front of a peeling door and hesitates. Perhaps this is too invasive, too assuming. But the more he thinks about it, the more he feels a sense of urgency to make sure that his dear Inspector is alright. It is for the sake of the town, he tells himself as he finally knocks on the door. Silence met him in the hallway, and Madeleine knocked again with more fervor. There was still no answer.


 


“Javert, are you there? It is I, Madeleine,” he called out, knowing that Javert would not be able to refuse opening the door for the mayor. But when silence remained, Madeleine knew he had to do something drastic. He leaned on the door, testing its build with putting his weight on it, and instantly decided that this door would easily budge with his strength. The creaking of the old door was instantly replaced by the thud of Madeleine pushing against it and the quick snap of its rusted hinges breaking off completely. It was quick and easy work for Madeleine, who believes that a man with less strength could still break the poor door open. Warily, Madeleine went inside. The room was barren, almost to the point of great concern. Next to the covered window hung the only object that seemed to be in good condition, a stark contrast to its environment that stands out with its rich deep color: the Inspector’s uniform and greatcoat. 


 


Madeleine was almost convinced that the Insector wasn’t home, because surely Javert would have heard the door breaking and his footsteps alone. But the mayor tells himself that this reckless act was not in vain. He looked around the room and decided that he would need to talk to the Inspector about his financial needs, then he heard a groan. The sound seemed to be coming from the one of the only two doors present in the room. Madeleine hesitated, the urge to flee was strong. His conscience was berating him for the rash decision of breaking into Javert’s place and breaking down his door of all things. Javert, who Madeleine knew was a private man, and yet he had impulsively violated Javert’s home. No matter how innocent his reason was, Madeleine felt shame and guilt that was enough to make him prepare to flee before someone, and God forbid Javert, sees him. 


 


But just as he took a step to where Javert’s front door used to be, the door in front of him creaked open. Madeleine froze as he sees the tall man, who was none other than the Inspector. But the Inspector looked nothing like how Madeleine was accustomed to. Javert stood there, pale and sweaty, his long hair down in tangles, wearing only a thin undershirt and trousers. The sight was so unexpected and different that Madeleine can only stare.


 


Javert blinked a few times, as if trying to make sense of what was in front of him. Then he spoke in a rough and hoarse voice in a tone that was uncharacteristically unsure, “Monsieur le Maire?”


