Title: world’s heaviest shoes
Work ID: 50298784
Author: coselle (orphan_account)
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert
Additional Tags: Fluff, valjean and javert being dads, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 4/?


Valjean is terrified. It is Cosette’s 13th birthday, and the reality was starting to sink in. Cosette, their darling daughter, with her messy brown hair, was officially becoming a teenager. He knew he was being ridiculous and Javert would most definitely laugh at him for his sentimentality. Thirteen, after all, is by no means a woman or anything of the sort. But Valjean can’t help but overthink. 


 


He and Javert have prepared everything they need for her birthday. Once Cosette gets home from school, they will surprise her with a small party. All her friends were in on it, and they even invited the employees from the Cafe they run, who all adored Cosette. Valjean made sure all the sweets and cakes were prepared and delicious, having made it himself, while Javert decorated the living room in an explosion of light pink; stars, fairy lights, and confetti. He made sure all the gifts were arranged in order as their friends from the Cafe arrive. 


 


Cosette was almost here, her friends, Marius, and his parents made sure to walk her home. Valjean looked at his husband, worried and fond. He knew Javert had barely slept last night, and Valjean can only blame himself. He is quite prone to twitching and mumbling when he’s nervous. Javert had to calm him down and not spoil the surprise for Cosette. Valjean only managed to greet the girl a good morning and a happy birthday before Javert took her to school. Thankfully, Cosette didn’t seem too disappointed that morning and was of the mind that her birthday didn’t need to be a big deal. Well, Valjean and Javert decided she deserves a celebration, especially now that they can afford it and have settled into this welcoming village. Sometimes, Valjean still can’t believe how far they’ve come. A criminal who has served his time, an ex-inspector whose beliefs have changed, both owners of a bakery cafe, and have adopted a beautiful child from abusive fosters. 


 


Staring at Javert now, who was counting the presents seriously, Valjean’s heart might just burst. The lights turned off, and he felt the younger man crouch next to him behind the sofa. Javert took his hand and squeezed. Sometimes they don’t need words to express themselves. Valjean kissed him on the cheek, squeezing his hand back.


 


They hear Cosette calling for them. They hear the boys giggling. They hear the door creak and silence… then “Surprise!” The light came back on and everyone was singing for Cosette and her smile was blinding. She felt herself laugh and resisted the urge to cry in happiness. She frantically looked around for the two men she loves the most and saw her papa and father still standing behind the sofa. She ran up to them and hugged them tight. 


 


“Thank you, papa! Thank you, father!” 


 


“Anything for you, my dear,” Valjean said, already tearing up. Javert handed him a handkerchief. 


 


They gathered around the cake, sang the birthday song one more time, and Cosette made her wish. It was a simple one. One that didn’t involve material objects and money. All Cosette wished for was more moments like this, where her papa and father are smiling, where she is with her friends, where they are happy.


 


Then she blew the candle, and the dining started. 


 


~


 


Night came around and most people have left. Marius, the boy who obviously has a crush on Cosette, dared to kiss her cheek goodbye and left with his parents. Cosette giggled, she loved Marius’ awkward charm. The food was all gone and the decorations were being cleaned up by Javert. 


 


“Come, Cosette,” Valjean called. “Let us open your presents.” 


 


Cosette excitedly went to open them. She never had this many presents, thankful that she had so many friends in this place. Her gifts consisted of books, dresses, more sweets, and stuffed toys. She noticed that most of them were from papa and father. She opened the last one, which were bookmarks, and felt herself tear up. All of a sudden, she can’t hold it in anymore. The tears were flowing freely as she stared at carefully ripped wrapping papers. 


 


“Cosette?” Valjean said, his voice full of concern. “What’s wrong?”


 


Cosette laughed wetly. “I’m just so happy, papa.”


 


“Oh, Cosette,” Valjean breathed. He hugged the girl tight, his warmth flowing with comfort as Cosette cried. “Shh, it’s alright. You deserve this, dearest.”


 


“T-thank you, papa,” she said between sobs, “and father, too. I love you both s-so much.”


 


“Are you just saying that because of all the gifts and sweets,” Valjean chuckled, trying to make Cosette smile.


 


Cosette only shook her head. “Even without the surprise and party and all this, I still love you and father.”


 


Valjean smiled, tearing up. “We love you, too, Cosette,” he said, kissing the top of her head.


 


Javert stood in the doorway watching the scene with a smile on his face. He didn’t dare move for fear that it will disappear before him. He isn’t used to feeling this much love even now. Hastily, he wiped his eyes, which were strangely wet. Now, he wished he didn’t give his handkerchief to Valjean. 


 


Javert remembered the day he met Cosette for the first time. He believes he can never forget. At that time, Javert was not an inspector anymore, he had vowed to change his ways, not without painful memories he would not like to relive.


 


He was walking alone in the night, having left the bedroom he recently shared with Valjean after the incident, trying to distract himself from the fact that he did not deserve Valjean, that he should leave the saint’s life once and for all, when he saw the girl. He can never forget how the girl was sickly thin, bruised, and scared.


 


“You, girl,” Javert called out. “Why are you walking alone at this time of night? Where are you parents?”


 


The girl jumped and immediately started to cower from him, shaking in fear. Javert could not bare the sight.


 


“It’s alright,” he said, trying to soften his voice the best he can. “I will not hurt you. I am merely concerned because a young girl like you should not be walking the streets at this time.”


 


It seemed to work because the girl relaxed a tiny bit. 


 


“I ran away,” she said, her voice soft and quiet. Javert froze.


 


“From who, and why?” 


 


“My caretakers. I d-don’t want to stay there anymore,” she said, tearing up.


 


Javert felt his anger grow.


 


“T-they always hurt me.”


 


That anger turned into a rage. 


 


“Who are they? Where do they live?” 


 


Cosette must have noticed the anger in his voice, because she shrunk into herself once again. “Thernadiers. They live at the edge of town, I think, but why do you ask, Monsieur?”


 


“Why, I’m going to make sure they face punishment,” Javert said, simply.


 


He stood up and held his hand to the girl. “Come with me, child. I’ll keep you safe.”


 


The girl’s eyes seemed to brighten at that. She took his hand and kept close to the tall and intimidating man as they walked.


 


“You won’t let them find me, Monsieur?”


 


“I won’t.”


 


“You’ll protect me?”


 


“Always.”


 


Cosette could not help but trust the man. She felt safe in his presence. 


 


“Promise?”


 


Javert looked at her then, his eyes unnaturally gentle. “Promise.”


 


Cosette smiled for what feels like forever. Javert finds he wanted to keep making her smile. 


 


“What is your name, child?”


 


“Cosette. And you?”


 


“Javert.”


 


They got to Jean’s house and entered. Jean was sitting at the kitchen table, his head in his hands. The older man had been worried sick ever since he saw Javert’s empty side of the bed. He heard the door open and rushed to see Javert only to be met with a surprise. A young girl holding hands with his dear friend.


 


It didn’t take long for Cosette to warm up to Jean, too. They fed the girl and talked about what had happened. They let the girl rest in their bed, as they talk about what to do next. Javert had proposed to take her to child protection services, reasoning that he could not be a good enough father to her. But Cosette came down from the stairs, all a tumble, crying about how she didn’t want them to leave her, about how Javert had made a promise, and practically clinging to the tall man, they decided that it’s best for her to be with them. 



As Cosette grew in Valjean and Javert’s care, she slowly became more open. She had always been a shy and timid girl, full of insecurities and fears of speaking. Cosette can’t help but dislike herself for her shy and awkward personality, as well as her tendency to be sensitive and cry easily. She also feels quite insecure about her appearance. She knew that this must have something to do with how the Thenardiers treated her since she was three year old, because her papa had always said that she is perfect just the way she is. And Cosette always tries to believe him.


 


She remembered crying tears of joy when they bought her dresses and stuffed toys; when they painted her bedroom pink; when they took her to wonderful places. And now this, her very first birthday party at the age of thirteen. She thinks she truly does have the best parents. Cosette believes her parents have a beautiful relationship, even if they met in a prison as convict and guard, what matters is that they’ve changed. 


 


Valjean remembered when Cosette was scared of speaking up. They had to ask her what she wants or else she wouldn’t say anything. Around the age of seven, she always used to hide behind Javert when they meet new people, or when she was scared to separate from her parents when outside. It hurts to remember how timid she was back then, but Valjean can say that she has improved. Cosette is definitely still a shy girl, but she can be talkative now, bossy even. Though, they know about how small triggers can affect her. 


 


So, when Cosette got sick after secretly playing outside in the rain with her friends, Valjean was worried. Not just about Cosette’s cough and sniffles, but also about Javert’s reaction. 


 


“So you lied to us about why you got home late!” Javert was saying, obviously distressed at the fact that Cosette is feeling sick enough to have a fever and not go to school.


 


Valjean saw Cosette flinch at his husband’s tone. The girl had stuttered through her confession previously, but had confidently explained that she had fun playing and it made her happy at the time. But now, she was silent again and Valjean feels his heart ache.


 


“Javert, dear, why don’t we—“ Valjean started to say only to be interrupted.


 


“Shut up, Jean,” he barked, “I am talking to Cosette here who needs to be taught that lying to her papa and father is unacceptable. Do you have any idea how worried we were? What you did was idiotic and irresponsible!”


 


Cosette blinked many times, and Valjean knew she was about to cry. The tears were quickly falling on her round face and she looked down at her pink socks, her thick hair trying to hiding her face. 


 


Javert looked at her abruptly when he heard her quiet sobs. He froze on the spot, stuck on what to do.


 


“That’s enough, Javert,” Valjean finally said. “Come, Cosette, let’s go to your bedroom. You need rest.”


 


As Cosette settled onto her comfy bed, she wiped her tears and looked at her papa curiously.


 


“Does father hate me now?” she said tearfully.


 


Valjean shook his head. “He will never hate you, Cosette, because he loves you. Father was only worried. He just wants to protect you, so do I.”


 


“Is father angry that I got sick?”


 


“Of course not.”


 


“But father is angry that I played in the rain?”


 


“Not entirely.”


 


Cosette looked thoughtful. “Is it because I lied? That’s why he s-shouted?”


 


Valjean smiled sadly and nodded. “We want you to be honest with us, Cosette. About everything you feel, everything you do, because we care so much about you. We don’t want you hiding secrets that could have consequences like this one. You understand, my dear?”


 


Cosette nodded. She doesn’t blame her father for shouting. 


 


Valjean kissed her forehead. “Take a rest, and if Javert comes to apologize, don’t be too harsh on him, okay?”


 


Cosette giggled. “I won’t, papa.”


 


~


 


It was in the afternoon when Cosette woke up from a nap after taking her medicine. She took her phone and was starting to respond to Marius’ worried text messages when Javert entered her bedroom, unnaturally quiet and timid for a man his size. Cosette almost laughed at the sight.


 


“Ah,” he said awkwardly, “you’re awake.”


 


“No, I’m not,” Cosette joked, smiling.


 


Javert can’t help but smile too, but immediately became quite serious, clearing his throat.


 


“I’m sorry I shouted at you, Cosette. I knew how much that affects you, but I still did it without thinking. I’m sorry.”


 


Cosette stood up and hugged her father. 


 


“I understand, father. I’m sorry I lied.”


 


Javert hugged her back, more relieved than he would ever admit. 



The Cafe wasn’t busy, a few customers here and there, but mostly things Valjean can handle alone. The morning sun was indeed beautiful but, Valjean thinks, nothing can compare to the sight of Cosette braiding Javert’s long hair at one of the tables.


 


It was the weekend after Cosette’s exams, so she was quite enjoying herself. She was busy carefully braiding Javert’s graying hair and tying it with a ribbon at the end. She smiled and admired her work.


 


“You look pretty, father,” she giggled.


 


Javert highly doubted that but he thanked her, nevertheless. 


 


“You do look beautiful, love,” Valjean said, giving the man a quick kiss on the cheek. Javert just flushed in embarrassment.


 


“So, Cosette,” Valjean said, “now that exams are over, where do you want to go?”


 


Cosette’s eyes lit up like the sun. She knew where she wanted to go to. “The beach! We haven’t been there for so long, and I really want to go, please.”


 


Valjean smiled, seeing Cosette being brave enough to tell them what she wants never fails to make him happy. Before he can think about it, Valjean nodded, excited for the girl. Beside him, Javert wasn’t moving. He was putting on a small smile for Cosette but his mind was busy as it always is. Javert forced himself to stop thinking about it. A beach is nothing like a river, and it has been years since the incident. He is acting like a coward with these thoughts. There is no way he will spoil the fun for the people he loves the most, he thought firmly. If he did, he would never forgive himself.


 


With this threat in mind, Javert resolutely packed their things back home, and joined Valjean and Cosette in the car. The drive to the beach didn’t take long, and before he knew it, the sea was in front of him.


 


Cosette squealed in delight, running to the water, already wearing her swimwear. Valjean chuckled. Cosette may be a teenager but her inner child is blooming, still optimistic and sweet. Her years of lost childhood in the Thenardiers affected her deeply, but in Valjean and Javert’s care, she managed to find herself, avoiding the path of hatred and cruelty. Javert can’t help but smile at the girl having so much fun over such simple things. As much as they saved Cosette, the girl saved them both just as much. 


 


He laid down on the sand, slowly feeling relaxed. Valjean joined to play with Cosette, deciding to teach her how to swim. The sun was warm and the sky was clear. He felt his eyes close. Javert doesn’t entirely believe in a God, but this might be close to heaven. 


 


“Oh, dear, Cosette has tired me out,” Valjean sighed next to him. “I daresay I might be too old for swimming.”


 


Javert smiled, knowing how strong Jean is first hand. “Somehow, I highly doubt that.”


 


Suddenly, he felt a hand hold his own, and Javert opened his eyes to see Jean looking at him with concern.


 


“Are you comfortable?” the man asked. “I just realized… Well, you don’t need to go in the water if you don’t want to.”


 


“I’m alright.”


 


Jean looked at him as if he doesn’t entirely believe him when they heard Cosette call out.


 


“Father! Papa! Why are you guys all the way over there?”


 


Javert stood up and held out a hand to Jean. He smiled, “You worry too much.”


 


Valjean just huffed. Of course, he worries. What Javert tried to do to himself in the past is no small thing. The sight of this man on the parapet still haunts him in his sleep. Together, they went to the water, hand in hand. Javert didn’t seem to mind the waves that lap at his thighs. The man has always been good at hiding his fear, Valjean thinks. But seeing Javert and Cosette going underwater together, smiling and laughing, makes his heart feel less heavy with worry.


 


~


 


The sun was setting and Cosette was starting to tire. Javert was carrying her as they slowly walk back to shore. Valjean held Javert’s free hand in his, smiling at the sight of his partner with his flushed cheeks and messily braided hair. Silently, Jean thanked the Lord for such a beautiful day.


 


Cosette was asleep by the time she got in the car. Valjean went to open the passenger door when Javert took his hand and gave him a gentle kiss. Jean smiled, kissing back.


 


“I’m glad I didn’t jump,” Javert whispered to him.


 