Title: You Wear a Crown of Edelweiss
Work ID: 45068515
Author: Skostbuster
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Javert Lives, Fever, Blood and Injury, Major Character Injury, Cliffhangers, like literal cliffhangers, Huddling For Warmth, more tags will be added eventually i think
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?


He’s greeted to white when his eyes crack open.


 


At first, he believes it to be the curls of Valjean’s hair, and that some unknown force had thrown out all sense of whatever proprietary he had over his actions and wished for nothing more than to lose himself in those curls. It was certainly soft enough to be it; this he knew from an accidental brush of his hand one night, reaching for a book Valjean had requested that was past his own reach. He made no comment, and if Valjean had noticed, he said nothing.


 


Quickly he realizes that this guess is completely absurd. For one, Valjean isn’t here; he’s resting far away, and to be out here would be catastrophic to his health. Two; it’s cold, and Valjean is anything but. Whether it was a glance, a greeting, or a smile that turned Javert’s knees weak, the man was akin to the sun on a summer’s day.


 


There’s a third, but before he could even put it to thought, his eyes caught a blemish in the otherwise blank scenery. Red. He furrows (at least he thinks he’s doing so) at the stain, but try as he might, his arms don’t move to investigate. He finds his arms aren’t moving at all, actually. 


 


He focuses on the red stain, slowly turning an odd shade of pink as flakes of white fall to the ground. One such flake flutters to his cheek, but his face is too numb to react to the biting cold. Snow, his mind finally supplies, and it’s falling at a fast rate. 


 


Strange, he thinks. Strange, he knows he’s likely to freeze to death if he doesn’t get up and find shelter, and yet…


 


And yet, he finds he can’t stand. 


 


He finds he can’t do much of anything right now.


 


A trickle of red branches out from the growing stream, stopping at the corner of his eye. He frowns, following the trail to the main vein, and from that to a crooked gash along an arm.


 


His arm. 


 



Oh.

