Title: you require that no work is due
Work ID: 51826024
Author: aftershocked
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Rimming, Shameless Smut, Anal Fingering, Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot, pure filth!, Established Relationship, Old Married Couple, Post-Seine, Kinktober 2023, Bottom Javert (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Javert’s back was to him as Valjean stepped into the kitchen, the savory aroma of spice and meat drifting through the air. In deference to his task as he bent over the peculiar, staggered bulk of their recently installed cast iron step stove—glaring sternly at something bubbling in one of the smaller pots all the while—Javert had laid aside his waistcoat and cravat and wore instead a simple cotton apron that Valjean himself would overlook more often than not, much to the despair of their housekeeper. The once or twice a week the usually quite amiable woman dropped by to sort through their laundry and dust the bookshelves, she would invariably chide Valjean for the blotches of sauce and grease speckled down his shirtfront.

But Javert would never be so frivolous, not even over the matter of a few stains; the apron was affixed carefully over his shirt, with his sleeves rolled up past his elbows. The long cascade of his hair—finally gone fully grey these last few years—had been pulled back into a simple plait, small strands already beginning to curl and escape from their careful braiding as the heat and humidity rose from the pots and pans simmering and burbling atop the stove’s boiling holes.

The apron strings, Valjean noted, were knotted with equally neat, tight, military precision right at the base of Javert’s spine. The remaining string draped in twin tails of fabric that fell over the curve of Javert’s backside, and Valjean rather thought it was no fault of his own that his eyes were drawn to that particular location as a result.

Slowly, but making no more or less noise than would be his usual wont—Valjean had no wish to startle Javert, much less while he stood over his preparations for their dinner—Valjean sidled up behind the other man and gently lay one hand on Javert’s waist.

Despite his efforts not to be unnecessarily stealthy, Javert still started at the sudden proximity, tilting his head to one side to glance over his shoulder. “Jean?” He asked. “Did you need something? I’m afraid it will be quite some time before everything is ready.”

“Mmm,” Valjean tucked his face at the base of Javert’s neck to one side of Javert’s plait, dipping past the collar of the other man’s shirt. Valjean breathed in, recognizing the hint of the cooking spices Javert had been using, mixed with the more familiar scents of Javert’s preferred soaps and hair oils, the sweat of the day, and of Javert’s skin; warm and yielding beneath the pressure of Valjean’s lips. “I do need something, although I cannot say my appetite is for food.” He nudged his hips against Javert’s, and Javert let out a low huff at the firm weight pushing insistently against the swell of his arse.

“Indeed, so it would appear,” Javert murmured, a thread of amusement coloring his words, the tendons of his large hands flexing as he hefted one pot atop a trivet on the nearby dark, polished oak cabinets fitted against the wall beside the stove. The cabinets were replete with a wide, generous tabletop and several rows of open shelving for use while cooking, but remained meticulously sparse and tidy whenever Javert prepared their meals. He cut his eyes in Valjean’s direction, smirking. “And, of course, it cannot wait until after dinner.”

Valjean now had both hands squarely on either side of Javert’s waist, drawing their bodies closer together, still mouthing at Javert’s throat. His tongue dragged over Javert’s pulsepoint, where he could feel the other man’s heart beginning to race from the proximity of Valjean’s body and the heat of Valjean’s touch.

“Is it so impossible that I should want hors d’oeuvres now, as well as dessert later?” Valjean asked innocently, rolling his hips—not enough to make Javert unsteady next to the hot plates and griddles of their cookstove, even as Javert fussed with the firebox and sliding dampers, muttering under his breath while he swiftly rearranged his assortment of pots and pans to leave their dinner to stew unattended. Valjean grinned where he nuzzled the back of Javert’s neck; he suspected Javert was not so concerned by the interruption as the other man might have intimated.

Javert stepped over sideways, reaching for a clean rag hung on a peg from the cabinets beside the stove; Valjean followed, plastered along Javert’s spine and well on his way toward nibbling a bruise at the juncture where Javert’s throat met shoulder, peeling back Javert’s shirt collar to suck gently at the warm bronze of Javert’s skin.

“I don’t see either of us managing twice in one evening,” Javert said wryly, even as he tipped his head to one side to provide Valjean’s wandering mouth better access, and his hips began to sway in time with Valjean’s own. “We’re hardly young men.”

Valjean nodded his agreement, for all that his hands crept beneath the cotton apron to pull and tug at the fastenings of Javert’s trousers and drawers—just enough to pull them down over the slope of that enticing backside, to leave Javert exposed in the heated air of the kitchen, and Javert burying his face in his shoulder at Valjean’s touch on Javert’s slowly stiffening length. Valjean gave him a few sure, easy strokes before his hands began to roam aimlessly across the bare skin of Javert’s stomach and hips and buttocks.

“It’s true we cannot do everything I would want to now as well as later,” Valjean allowed. “But I can think of one or two things we might attempt that should suffice.”

Truthfully, Valjean could imagine a great deal more than one or two things, and had been thinking of such for some days now. He felt impatient, hungry for far more than their would-be dinner; and without wanting to wait any longer, Valjean lowered himself to his knees.

Valjean snagged a cushion from the seat of one of the chairs surrounding the kitchen table as he dropped to the floor, resting aging joints—these days, his knees complained as much about his gardening as his and Javert’s various forays outside their bedroom—on an impromptu layer of padding, the cushion sufficient protection from the wooden floorboards as he knelt behind Javert. Valjean brought his meandering hands to take hold of and spread Javert’s cheeks, baring the ruddy furl between them to Valjean’s gaze.

“Jean!” Javert’s voice rose, his hips thrusting back instinctively. “You don’t mean to, here—”

Whatever doubts Javert may have had regarding Valjean’s precise intentions were lost in a whimper Javert quickly buried into the meat of his shoulder as Valjean brought his mouth to Javert’s hole and licked one long, wet stripe against it.

Valjean found his grip immediately tightening around Javert’s spread cheeks as the other man pushed back into the hot press of Valjean’s lips and tongue, Javert’s reservations collapsing entirely as his body liquefied in Valjean’s grasp. Javert had always been weak to this, although they did not indulge as often as perhaps either of them would like, and it had indeed been quite some time since the last—a fact that had occurred to Valjean earlier that week, his cheeks burning and his heart racing as he recalled precisely when there had last been an opportunity.

Thereafter, Valjean had spent a truly reprobate and entirely indecent amount of time thinking about Javert and the particular noise he would make when Valjean tongued his slick, swollen furl. And when Javert had taken a bath late in the afternoon rather than his usual preference for the early morning—Javert climbing out of the fragrant water not long after Valjean had returned from his usual visit with Cosette, a mere handful of hours before the two of them would be supping, and retiring for the night—well—

Valjean supposed he could have waited until they were abed, but he had always believed in seizing opportunities as they presented themselves.

And yes, Valjean could smell the lavender oils their housekeeper often set aside for their baths, underlaid with the salt and musk that was entirely Javert. Valjean licked at Javert’s reddened hole, not pressing in—just enough to suggest and tease, and—there it was: that choked, fragmented moan Valjean remembered so well.

Javert squirmed above him, hands gripping the edge of the cabinet’s tabletop while he thrust back against Valjean’s face, and Valjean breathed out a heavy exhale simply because he knew Javert would be able to feel it so intimately, warm air fanning against the puckered skin of his entrance. He allowed himself a moment to drift his lips downward, licking beneath Javert’s perineum, before moving to lap around the ruddy edge of Javert’s hole; the tight ring of muscle twitching as Valjean mouthed an uneven, ragged circle over hot and tender flesh.

Nibbling at the curve of one cheek a mere handspan away from Javert’s hole, Valjean rubbed his chin against the inside of Javert’s arse, his beard scraping the sensitive skin in a way he knew very well that Javert preferred, hands still pushing Javert apart and holding his cheeks in place. Valjean was briefly distracted by the soft, supple flesh at the crease where thigh met buttock; laving his tongue across the fine, dark hair that dusted along the tops of Javert’s legs. He suckled until the skin beneath his lips began to bruise and darken and Javert was arching his spine, growling Valjean’s name.

Valjean bit down at the crease of Javert’s thigh again, harder; a sharp sting that had Javert smothering a whine as it tried to wrest itself from the back of Javert’s throat, his backside shifting against Valjean’s mouth. “Jean, please,” Javert gasped, as Valjean soothed the purpling bite with lips and tongue.

“Yes, my dear?” Valjean asked, tracing his lips back up the seam of Javert’s cleft, but shying away from the wrinkled furl both he and Javert wanted Valjean to return to.

“Either continue—or desist, and wait—” Javert’s long nails scratched the surface of the tabletop. “But God in Heaven, do something.”

Valjean allowed himself another moment to savor the rock of Javert’s hips as he tried to drag himself over the slippery, flat heat of Valjean’s tongue, enjoying the mounting intensity of Javert’s desperate cries almost—almost—as much as the act itself. But Valjean had been waiting, and the brief taste of Javert before had only left Valjean wanting more, and with a groan no less desperate than Javert’s, Valjean sank back down and wrapped his mouth around the thin skin of Javert’s fundament; lapping gently at the intimate hollow of Javert’s body without breaching the taut rim, without yet pushing his tongue into Javert’s passage.

He felt pleasantly hazy, face buried against Javert’s backside. The room was still fragrant with their simmering dinner, and Valjean was warm to the bone with the heat of the kitchen and the flare of his arousal as he licked across Javert’s entrance.

Valjean wanted first to leave Javert’s hole slick and glistening, wanted Javert wet and dripping from his tongue as Valjean sealed his mouth over the furrowed skin and suckled. Javert’s pelvis jolted forward and another growl tore past his lips, his legs spreading within the crumpled jumble of his trousers and drawers. Fabric slid further down Javert’s legs as he shifted and widened his stance, baring himself more readily to Valjean’s eager mouth.

Javert’s hips swayed unsteadily, twisting back toward Valjean’s mouth even as he jutted up against the hard, flat edges of the cabinet in an urgent, fevered rhythm, and Valjean’s stomach clenched in recognition. With his tongue resting in the dip of Javert’s hole, Valjean lifted one hand from its grip around Javert’s buttock to reach beneath the hem of his shirt, groping over Javert’s stomach and down past his navel until Valjean’s fingers bumped heated, velvety skin.

Javert’s hips convulsed almost violently at the sudden touch on his cock, and Valjean’s fingertips trailed up the familiar curve of Javert’s erection, sight unseen; slipping through the rivulets of pre-ejaculate already beginning to dribble down the bobbing length where it pushed insistently against Javert’s apron.

“Jean,” Javert panted, as Valjean’s tongue fluttered briefly over Javert’s perineum again before dipping back into the pulsing warmth of his hole, still not pressing forward. “I need… right there, again—”

He tried to thrust upward, to thrust his cock into the curve of Valjean’s palm where it pumped idly over his length. But Valjean’s thumbs dug into the muscle of Javert’s spread cheeks, anchoring the other man in place. Valjean’s tongue darted low to sweep at the soft skin along the top of Javert’s taint before returning to lap at the quivering, puckered flesh of his furl; each movement of Valjean’s chin and jaw as he licked and kissed and sucked between Javert’s cheeks scraping the bristle of his beard across delicate skin.

“I think I understand you,” Javert said, tone breathy, words clipped. Valjean’s eyes were half-lidded, bathing Javert’s entrance with tongue and lips as he glimpsed Javert tilt his head, looking over his shoulder at Valjean kneeling behind him. The heat of the kitchen and Javert’s arousal had darkened his temples with sweat, further fraying the edges of his plait where it fell behind his head. Thin wisps of gunmetal and silver clung to Javert’s cheeks.

Valjean hummed his response to Javert’s words, each minute vibration over wrinkled flesh and sensitive nerves sending a visible shiver up the length of Javert’s body.

“You are—” Javert quieted a whine as Valjean’s fingers slipped deftly over the blunt, spongy head of his cock, pressing lightly at the leaking slit before dragging wetly down the rigid shaft. “—trying to torment me.”

Valjean shook his head where it was nestled between Javert’s cheeks, knowing full well Javert would feel every scratch of hair and glide of his tongue. And indeed Javert’s pelvis rocked back against Valjean’s mouth, only for Valjean to wrap his fist around the girth of Javert’s cock and pump along the length. Javert’s shoulders shook, his hands braced on the tabletop as his head tipped forward; back bowing, his body trembling, chasing the friction of Valjean’s touch.

Rearing his head back far enough to reply, “Perhaps I only wish to savor a good meal,” Valjean leaned forward to wrap his mouth over Javert’s entrance again, lips moving gently. His breath was light and teasing against the thin, wrinkled skin; tasting the salt of sweat and the bitter perfume of Javert’s bath oils—and something baser, something earthier that Valjean had only ever identified as Javert.

“This isn’t savoring, this is—” Javert gasped as Valjean curved his tongue and prodded it deeper into that tight ring of muscle, “—actually driving me to insanity, Jean—”

And then Javert’s words were lost, swallowing a cracked and shattered whimper as Valjean’s tongue finally pressed forward. Valjean fucked past the grip of Javert’s hole with his tongue at the same time Valjean’s hand tightened around Javert’s cock, moving along the shaft with even, lazy strokes that were entirely too slow and entirely too light for what Javert wanted as he swore and bucked his hips.

Valjean wetted his fingertips with the precome dripping down the throbbing heat of Javert’s erection, feeling Javert’s cock flex against his palm as he relaxed his hand, providing a loose fist for Javert to rut into. Valjean circled his tongue in the tight press of Javert’s entrance, moaning brokenly at the sensation—the slick clutch of Javert’s passage as he flicked his tongue around the inside of the puckered rim; the skin there sinfully soft and pounding with the frantic beat of Javert’s heart, slippery with Valjean’s saliva.

He pursed his lips and thrust his tongue in ragged, inelegant strokes, sloppy and uncoordinated as he panted heavily against Javert’s back, his lips swollen and flush and tender as he sucked and squirmed and lapped his tongue at the smooth inner walls of Javert’s hole.

“Like that,” Javert said, coarse and guttural. The motion of his hips grew short and abrupt as he tried to push himself further back on Valjean’s tongue, fuck himself on the sleek, narrow muscle gently spreading the puffy skin of his furl. “Yes, right there, again—”

Javert chased the press of Valjean’s tongue, trying to maintain the jagged pace of his cock plunging into the tunnel of Valjean’s fingers. Valjean’s hand was held close to Javert’s pelvis for Javert to rock into while canting his hips against Valjean’s face, Valjean’s jaw aching from long moments with his mouth held tense and open, sucking wet and greedy at Javert’s hole. His beard was smeared with spittle, his head swimming with desire; sweat poured down Valjean’s back as the heat of the kitchen seemed to rise with the fiery beat of Valjean’s blood flooding his face and his neck and his chest and his cock, hard and aching and untouched in his trousers.

The hand not held around Javert’s length dug instead into the plump curve of Javert’s arse, squeezed the heft of Javert’s buttock as Valjean held Javert open—the better to tilt his head and jab his tongue and lave at the taut ring gone lax and soft where Valjean lapped his way inside, luxuriating in the warmth and taste and shuddering slick depths that twitched and quivered with each pass of Valjean’s lips. Valjean released a hoarse, unsteady moan just to hear the way the solid weight of Javert’s backside pressed to his face muffled the sound; just to know Javert could feel the stifled noise reverberate over the delicate skin of his entrance.

Javert tried again to shove his hole on Valjean’s tongue while fucking into Valjean’s hand, Valjean’s own cock pounding between his legs in time with each erratic jolt of Javert’s hips. With a regretful, nonsense murmur against the wrinkled furl beneath his lips, Valjean tightened his hold on Javert’s arse and slid his tongue from Javert’s rim, far enough to pull his mouth away entirely. Javert’s answering cry was loud and unrestrained as he thrust his hips back; seeking, searching after the clever, surging press of Valjean’s mouth.

Valjean swiped his tongue over his lips and tasted only Javert; Valjean’s voice was rough and husky with need as he asked, apologetically, “Javert, would you…” and gave Javert’s cock a meaningful squeeze. He withdrew his hand slowly, sliding down Javert’s length and cupping Javert’s sac before releasing the other man’s throbbing erection to trip salt-sticky fingers across Javert’s hip. Valjean dropped his hand into his lap and plucked at the buttons running down the front flap of his trousers before fumbling at the fastenings of his drawers.

Javert jerked his head in the semblance of a nod, uncurling one hand from its white-knuckled grip on the tabletop to bat aside layers of cotton and linen and grasp his erection. Javert grunted as he dragged his thumb over the thick vein curving down the underside of his cock, before gentling his touch at the base. The movement of his fist was rapid over his dripping length, the swift slap of skin on skin obscenely loud over both men’s harsh, gasping breaths.

Valjean mirrored the motion of Javert’s hand around his own length, Valjean’s fingers disappearing past the open placket of his trousers to wrap around the thrumming heat of his cock, touching himself with furious, uneven strokes along the shaft. He was too far gone without having even laid a hand on himself to care about finesse, or withholding his own release. Instead he watched Javert: the other man’s head tipped back, his mouth fallen open, the ever-present lines between his brows deepening as his expression twisted and contorted.

Flyaway strands of hair plastered to Javert’s neck and whiskers and brow, and Javert’s lips curled back into a snarl—a plea—his eyes clamped tightly shut as he begged, “I want you to touch me, please—inside me, I need you—” His hips arched back; leaning into the grip of Valjean’s hand on his cheek, pressing toward Valjean’s face.

And Valjean breathed, “Yes,” his cock leaping in response to the low rumble of Javert’s voice, the insistent push of Javert’s hips, the dusky furl between Javert’s cheeks as Valjean swayed forward. Valjean found the reddened, puckered skin with lips and tongue again and lapped at the entrance, feeling Javert’s hole clench and contract beneath his mouth; desperate for more than the suggestive flick of Valjean’s tongue.

With a shudder that ran down the entire length of Valjean’s spine, he eased his hold on the plush give of Javert’s buttock and groped his fingers along Javert’s cleft. Valjean dragged the pad of one fingertip over the spit-slicked ring of muscle, watching the way the silky, wrinkled flesh bunched and tugged beneath each rough slide of his touch.

“Fuck, Jean, your fingers or your tongue or your cock, anything, something—” Javert said, low and fervent, words breaking off in a wail. He wrenched his fist up and down his cock in short, fitful strokes—the muscles of his thighs and back and arse tensing and relaxing and tensing again, his release building.

Brushing a second callused digit over crinkled skin still shining with saliva, Valjean applied the barest pressure where his fingers lay against the fluttering rim. His fingertips sank down a scant millimeter—another—and then Valjean was pushing his fingers in deliberately, mouthing around the edges. His tongue darted between forefinger and index to tease the puckered furl, Valjean’s fingers sliding easily past the clenching, constricting ring; pressed around from all sides by smooth, moist heat that pulsed and trembled as Valjean thrust inside Javert down to the knuckle. He flicked his tongue around the surrounding skin where Javert’s hole clung to his fingers, the bitter aftertaste of bath oils long gone, and now there was only Javert—

Valjean’s cock flexed in his hand, the slow roil of desire suddenly boiling over. Valjean’s hips arched, his mouth panting a shocked, punched-out moan against Javert’s hole as Valjean’s release struck him like a stone—a heavy, startling force and pressure that rattled the wails falling from his lips and were lost in the seam between Javert’s cheeks. Valjean’s chest heaved, his fingers inside Javert curling.

Javert shuddered, his fist flying along his length with lewd slaps of skin; squirming back against Valjean’s face and asking, wild and insensate on the cusp of his own release, “Did you—oh, Jean, that’s gorgeous.” He wrung his cock and shoved back on Valjean’s fingers and implored, “Don’t stop.”

But Valjean was rattling in the aftershocks of his completion, his fingers prodding blindly inside Javert’s hole, his tongue clumsy where he traced it around the dusky edges of Javert’s furl. He hauled in great, gusting bursts of air, his cock jerking and convulsing in his hand, throbbing within his grasp. Valjean felt strangely oversensitive as he wrung out thick spurts of seed, painting the cabinet doors and dripping down onto the stolen seat cushion bunched beneath his knees.

“Jean, Jean, Jean,” Javert rasped, his backside pressed against Valjean’s mouth and Valjean’s hand, his hips circling. “Please, I’m almost—”

Valjean’s lips were still buzzing with the remnants of his orgasm as he placed open-mouthed kisses around his fingers, directly over Javert’s rim. He drifted through the haze of release as his world narrowed down to sweat and musk and damp humid skin: the yielding furrow of Javert’s hole, the rippling warmth inside Javert’s passage. Valjean’s fingers plunged and bent and stretched, licking between the scissoring digits, sucking at the reddened skin, following the shape of the taut ring with his tongue as Javert’s hole spread around the girth of his fingers.

With the immediacy of his own arousal sated, Valjean had to take his hand away from his spent cock, dragging his palm up the soft skin of Javert’s legs until he was able to grip Javert’s other cheek again, pawing and squeezing at the thick muscle. Like this, it was easier to hold Javert open, fingers thrusting, tongue fucking erratically between each digit.

Valjean’s fingers pressed further within Javert’s passage, his knuckles digging into Javert’s cheeks, until Valjean could feel that small nub—and Valjean sucked at Javert’s rim, bumping and rubbing the tips of his fingers over Javert’s prostate; groaning where his tongue slipped inside and over wet, constricting walls as Javert’s hole clenched, bore down. Javert pitched his hips back and his hand on his cock stuttered in ragged, haphazard jerks until Javert was digging the broad, hard line of his jaw into his collarbone and crying out, spearing himself on Valjean’s probing fingers and the slick seal of Valjean’s mouth where it suckled and nipped around Javert’s hole.

Javert’s entrance spasmed under Valjean’s touch and Valjean’s lips as Javert’s release swept over him, Valjean’s fingers still buried in Javert’s arse and his tongue still licking over Javert’s hole. Javert pumped his cock, spending over the hem of his shirt, the back of his apron; his seed oozed down his length to dribble over his hand as Javert stroked himself through the final spurts of his completion. He was tender, shivering in the aftermath—Javert’s hands shook where he released his spent length and clutched the cabinet tabletop again for balance, and Valjean’s fingers gentled where they pressed inside his loosened furl.

Valjean’s tongue flitted over the contracting muscle as he slid his fingers away, brushing his hand over skin chafed by his beard, or tormented with tongue and teeth; listening to Javert curse and moan above his head with each caress of abraded flesh.

Even as Valjean’s own length felt delicate and overused despite the speed of his release, his balls wrung-out and empty, he couldn’t help but place another lingering suck on the softened pucker of Javert’s entrance. Javert shifted and grunted and writhed in turn, groaning, “Enough, enough, surely you’ve had your fill,” for all that Javert yet tilted his pelvis toward the wet glide of Valjean’s tongue as Valjean gave a final, fleeting lick over the rim; Javert’s hole red and gleaming and swollen for Valjean’s attentions.

“Perhaps,” Valjean said contentedly, still resting against Javert’s backside. He felt gratifyingly satiated, tranquil and indolent where he slumped against Javert’s bare skin. Valjean’s lips were sore and tingling, the flavor on his tongue rich with the unidentifiable quality of Javert’s body at its most intimate and most vulnerable.

Slipping his hands from Javert’s cheeks to rest lightly upon Javert’s hips, Valjean spied anew the scattering of small, dark bruises he had suckled across buttock and thigh, and he could not help but grin and say, “Thank you for the meal, my dear.”

Shaking his head, tufts of hair sticking up in strange places from his tousled plait, Javert scoffed and appraised the abandoned preparations of their half-finished dinner—even as one corner of his lips tucked up into his cheek in a small, lopsided smile. He half-turned to gesture in Valjean’s direction until Valjean caught Javert’s hand in his, and together, they leveraged Valjean back to his feet, complaining knee joints and all. Upright once again, Valjean spared a glance for the cushion he had dropped to the floor earlier—now regrettably misshapen, indeterminately stained, and somewhat the worse for the wear for its misuse.

As Valjean shook one leg and tried to work the stiffness out of his muscles, he watched Javert dubiously eye the simmering, steaming pans and pots he had so hastily pushed aside before. Javert’s prodigious brows were drawn low, his scowl no less intimidating as it scrutinized their foodstuffs and kitchenware than during his most fearsome days as the ever-watchful, ever-suspicious Inspector.

After a tentative sniff, Valjean thought that the vegetables in at least one of the pans might smell a trifle burnt, which he supposed had likely been the case for some time; it had been difficult to notice such things with his tongue between Javert’s cheeks.

Face heating more with the lingering memory of desire than any sort of self-consciousness, Valjean slung one arm around Javert’s waist, propelling himself forward to slot behind the other man again. He encircled Javert in a loose embrace, amused at their half-dressed state while Javert went back to surveying the remains of their erstwhile meal. Valjean nosed past fine strands of hair and the sweat-stained collar of Javert’s shirt to bite gently at the knob of Javert’s spine where it met his neck.

“Are you still trying to have me for dinner?” Javert asked, words dry, but his body was slack and pliant where it leaned back against Valjean. “I thought you had your fill, before.”

“Impossible,” Valjean smiled, with another pointed nibble along Javert’s throat, though Valjean and Javert both knew there would be little more they could rouse from their spent bodies that night. Javert chuckled, stretching his long limbs toward the stove, Valjean following the movement with his arms still twined around Javert’s torso.

Javert lifted the lid off one pot and snorted, displeased. “I hope you weren’t particularly hungry for anything more substantial,” Javert gestured with the lid. “That might be all there is to eat tonight.”