Title: Multi Les Misèrables Smut One shots
Work ID: 43379442
Author: xEternalFlame
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables)
Additional Tags: Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

Javert had just let him go?
He had just let him go? After everything?
Oh this made no logical sense to Jean Valjean. 

After leaving a message with the cook to give to Cosette he made his way through Paris, in the direction of the offices of Inspector Javert. 

''You truly must be mad 24601.''

Javert spoke when he noticed the lighter haired man enter. 

''Why did you just let me go? After everything? What is it you want?'' 

''I want to be rid of you. I want you out of my thoughts.'' Came the simple reply and Valjean blinked, swallowing a little bit. He knew how obsessed Javert had been with finding him and yet something told him now that there was more to it, so much more. 

The intense looks. All the times he could've killed him and did not. 

''Sending me back to prison.. would do that.''

''Yet my mind would never truly be at peace now.'' 

24601 had saved his life and he knew if he did not return the favour in some way then he would never be at peace. Perhaps he never would anyway.

''There.. must be something you want..anything, name it.''

Javert finally spoke the words he had been dreading himself saying and yet he couldn't stop himself from saying them.

''I wish to release..in your mouth. I have often imagined it, you have tortured my dreams for so long 24601.''

Valjean sank his teeth into his bottom lip before nodding and making his way over. Javert stood up from his desk and undid his pants before sliding those and his underwear down his legs. 

Valjean bit his lip slightly harder than before and slid onto his knees, taking Javert's length in hand he began to suck. Hands moved up to cup his balls at the same time. Massaging gently and he was pleased to hear such grateful moans leaving the Inspector's lips. 

His tongue flickered the tip. Granted he'd never done this before but had seen it done and yet those moans were making a bulge happen in his pants.

''..Hearing something you like, 24601?''

He rolled his eyes at Javert and continued to suck him off, his tongue moving up and down the length and then finally.. he felt such sweetness go down his throat.

Swallowing Valjean groaned softly and slid up onto his feet.