Title: No man does it all by himself
Work ID: 31788127
Author: goatsongs
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Jean Valjean/Robert/Genflou/Javert, Robert/Jean Valjean, Javert/Genflou, Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - 1980s, Pride, Leather Scene, S&M scene, gay clubs, Valjean Polycule, Eventual Javert/Jean Valjean, accidental transphobia, Leather Javert, Foul Language, some homophobia, this fic is dumb and fun and only sometimes takes itself seriously, acab :), Sexual Content, Mild S&M, Mild Kink, partly no beta, We Die Like Men
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 4/5


  Pride March – June 7th, 1982    


 

Summer seemed to rush with purpose and joy toward Pride, and it seemed like the sunniest day of the year, with the sky crystal clear and the sun intimately warming her skin. Shrugging her jacket off, Cosette scanned the crowd, looking for an indiscreet group of colourful heads and, she was sure, a multitude of slogan banners. It did not take her long to spot Eponine’s red liberty spikes from across the field, and she happily made her way there through queens and flags and picnics. 

Her friends sat around a white cotton sheet and most were intent on colouring in letters of a slogan Cosette couldn’t quite make out. Eponine looked up at her from one side, a cig hanging off her mouth and a beer in her other hand, and Marius looked up at her through his long eyelashes. Someone had ambushed him with pink eyeshadow. 

“Hey, bitch.” Eponine greeted her, talking over Marius’ lovelier greeting.

Cosette plopped down between her and Marius. He leaned over to press a kiss on her cheek and she leaned into him. 

“So,” Across from Cosette, Laigles looked at her through heavy shaded glasses, “where are your dads, Coz?” 

That elicited  ooh’ s of approval and interest from the rest of the group. 

“Yeah, Cosette, I want to see your faggy dads!” 

Cosette rolled her eyes exaggeratedly. 

“Which ones?”

Everyone laughed. It was an easy joke with them. They found her unusual familial situation incredibly entertaining. 

“The hot one!” Said someone. 

“They all are.” Argued another. 

“They are not all hot.” Eponine crooned. 

“Well, of course you’d say that!” Jolie threw a pen at Eponine, who threw it back at her with a lot more force. 

“Ow!"

“You’re not going to see them.” Cosette tried to say placatingly. 

A chorus of disappointment sounded throughout the group. Cosette smiled apologetically. 

“I made my dad promise that if he saw me he’d pretend I didn’t exist. And then he made me promise the same. Sorry.” She was not sorry. Out of all the possible scenarios, pretending her dad and his weird polycule didn’t exist was by far the best one. She prayed she wouldn’t have to make an effort to avoid the four of them. 

“We don’t have to participate in the promise though.” Marius said, with the tiniest teasing smile.

Cosette slapped Marius on the arm. “You absolutely fucking do, I’ll kill you.” 

“If I ever had to fuck a man I’d choose the skinny one.” Eponine breathed out a puff of smoke thoughtfully. 

“The greasy one?” 

“You have no taste in men, ‘Ponine.” Laigles accused. 

“Of course I don’t, you fucking moron.” 

“I’d fuck the ponytail guy.” 

“Okay, cop fucker.” 

“He’s not anymore, is he, Coz?”

“I think Cosette’s original dads are the sexiest.” 

Cosette groaned loudly over the chatter.

“Can you all stop talking about this? I  will  start crying,” she threatened. That quieted everyone down, and though a few more half-hearted jokes were made, it seemed that the prospect of making Cosette upset was not worth it. 

Happy with her powers of crowd manipulation, Cosette lay her head on Marius’ lap. He leaned over, his face so close his freckles blurred, and he kissed her slowly. She smiled into the kiss. 

All was well. 

That is, until later that day, when she had to witness her father in jean shorts and rollerskates drunkenly trying and failing to dance, trying not to and managing to fall, and get aided up by not one, not two, but three of his skimpily dressed partners. Cosette wondered if she could die of embarrassment, and downed Eponine’s third beer of the day in one go in hopes of forgetting the scene. 

All was going to be well, she hoped, as soon as she could get her weird dads out of her immediate eyesight. 

She looked over to see Marius laughing, his eyeshadow smudged across his nose. 

Yes. All was well. 







     The streamlets they wander through meadows so fleet, 


      Their music enticing fond lovers to meet; 



      The violets are blooming and nestling their heads 



      In richest profusion on moss-coated beds. 



                [...] 








  Somewhere in Paris – June 1st, 1981  


 

The beat of music rippled through the ground as Jean and Robert descended the darkened steps to the dancefloor, walking down single file to avoid a tangle of boys kissing up against the wall. The smell of sweat and bodies filled their lungs as they trickled down – Jean could feel his lover’s damp hand holding his forearm through a long sleeved shirt. When they reached the lower level, the man at the entrance of the club room let them pass with little more than a glance. He was probably used to fresh boys of twenty trying to sneak past him, Jean thought with a smile as Robert overtook him and pulled him into the dancing crowd. They melted into it – Robert with an ease Jean found himself briefly jealous of – as his heart beat faster in such close proximity with a sea of men seeking an escape so similar, yet so distinct from his own. 

He tried to concentrate solely on Robert. His eyes held his gaze, light and caring as he moved to the refrain, dropping his head to the beat just so he could look at him again. His shirt was unbuttoned, revealing a triangle of chest and sweat Jean wished he could kiss. If he looked around he would see how hardly anybody else in the space was resisting a temptation so wholesome, but an entire life of churchly guilt and a decade of reformed devotion were hard to get by even now. He let the soft flush of arousal run through him, allowed himself to reach for Robert’s bare arm and take hold. Robert in turn placed a hand on the side of Jean’s neck, cradling his jaw, his index finger resting behind his ear. 

He leaned in for a kiss. Jean laced his fingers in Robert’s beard, stroking his chin with his thumb. The kiss tasted like saliva, rum and coke, years of love and fears shared between them. The song faded over into a new beat, and they continued dancing late into the night. Jean’s older bones did not complain. He felt half his age, giddy with love, and for once, his worries drifted back into the ether of his head– his anxiety a mere thrum between his heart and the back of his ribcage, enough to not be noticeable. 

After a good while, he leaned in.

“Would you like another drink?” He raised his voice to be heard over the beat. 

“Would kill for it,” Robert shouted back as he danced. 

Jean nodded. “Rum and coke?” 

Robert smiled by way of assenting. Jean abandoned him and pushed his way out of the bouncing crowd to the equally crowded bar in the back of the room. 

As he waited to be served by the bright young boy in a pink barbie doll t-shirt, he finally allowed himself to take in the space. He hadn't yet, as he had been mostly distracted by Robert’s unbuttoned shirt. It was a large space, though not large enough to fit all the people in it comfortably. Everywhere you turned were bodies slick and snug against each other. Oxygen was scarce and the atmosphere queer, breathless and erotic. Jean noted with some discomfort how a good portion of those who populated this underground den were barely older than his darling Cosette, and he took brief comfort in knowing she was probably in bed, sleeping.

To the farther side of the beehive room was a set of three elevated platforms where oiled, muscled gods moved their bodies sensually to the music.  He let his eyes briefly trail down their chests to note the tightness of their underwear. There was a time when he would have acted like a married man, shielding his eyes from any lustful vision like a horse with blinkers, or been so prudish as to not allow himself to look at Robert with that same desire. It had taken long to heal from that guilt.

“What can I get’cha, handsome?” 

Jean placed his order politely, barely smiling at the red-faced boy. Leaning his elbow against the damp counter, he turned back as he waited, his eyes called to a hidden cove next to the flashing toilet sign. Over the haze of bodies and sweat it was hard to see, but his imagination took the better of him and he watched the shadows of bodies pushing up against the wall doing God only knew what. He swallowed, took a breath, thankful when his drinks clinked onto the counter. He slipped a tenner to the bartender, waving at him to keep the change. The boy winked and swiftly moved on to his next customer. 

Jean looked over the crowd, thankful for his height, catching a glimpse of Robert – eyes closed, pressed between bodies as he danced, uncaring, so different from himself. When he reached him with his drink, Robert pulled him into a kiss as thanks. He was even sweatier than before, and Jean blushed and downed his drink. It was hot, and he, as always, was wearing a long sleeved shirt to cover his multitude of scars and tattoos.

As the night went on, they were pushed closer to the back of the room. Jean began to glimpse better views of pairs kissing and grinding up against each other in a desperate sort of way in the far corner he had already noticed. It was a shameful thing that he looked, though others seemed to be looking without such worries. It was a strange ritual of indecency that Jean understood very well, God forgive him. 

A large man was pushing another against the wall, thrusting furiously, and the other man, still tall in his slenderness, had a leather mask covering his face. Jean could not say why he kept looking; perhaps, he reasoned later, for simple curiosity. In a sudden jerk, the masked man’s head snapped back, and his eyes caught directly onto Jean across the dancefloor. A shock went through him as that unsettling pair of grey eyes latched onto his gaze, unmoving as the rest of his body was being thrust against the wall. The crowd breathed and lifted, briefly blocking his view. When he caught sight of the masked man again, his eyes were closed shut in obvious pleasure. Embarrassed, Jean looked away, aware of the quickened beating of his heart, and he continued dancing, trying to dispel the vision from his mind. 

Some time later, Robert and Jean pushed out of the crowd, exhausted, and Jean jerked his thumb back, indicating the toilet. He pushed through a slowing thrum of people and music, wondering about the time. It must have been late, closing in on the night given the thinning crowd, melting off into ones, twos and threes. When he finally reached his goal, he practically fell into one of the stalls trying to ignore the grunts coming from next door as he pissed. He frowned in distaste. As he went to wash his hands, he noticed a man in full black, his back to him, leaning against the wall in front of the urinals. Jean noticed how tight the leather pants were, and the width of the man’s shoulders. A mask covered his head. Jean was drunk, and the realisation hit him sluggishly, too late. The man turned his head back to look at him while he pissed. Narrowed grey eyes bore into him once again. Fear overtook him, and Jean fled before his hands were even free of soap suds. 

“Let’s go home.” He grabbed Robert by the arm. Robert didn’t ask. He just followed and, when they got home, drunkenly groping at each other, Jean looked into his lover’s bright blue eyes until he could no longer keep his own open.

Jean Valjean was not unaccustomed to nightmares. They were familiar; the plots and twists of them would repeat for nights in a row, and had been for years. He would often find himself running desperately through a forest at night, his legs as heavy as lead and the air thick as water as he struggled against bulging roots and endless thickets. His pants would echo loudly against the walls of darkness surrounding him, making his escape harder as the someone or something chasing him would get ever closer, breathing fire and ice down his neck as they swirled through his inner world of terrors. The distant memories of escaping through France, crossing highways from one tree barrier to another with a little girl held tightly in his arms would become heightened and frantic in his sleep, and dreams of Cosette being snatched away from him as a child had, over the years, transformed into dreams of her fading, letting go of his hand voluntarily, drifting farther and farther away until she was lost to him entirely. Sometimes, rarely, horrifyingly, she would turn into her dying mother in front of him, her skin grey and her breaths rattling as she reached out to him. 

The recurrence and continuity of his night terrors never made them easier to wake up from, and he would find himself burst awake in a pool of cold sweat and Robert would be at his side, coaxing his body back into their bed with his grounding voice and gentle reassurances. 

It was rare, then, for his nightmares to change – yet, after that night, they did. For months, his nights were plunged in a complete and stifling silence. He dreamt of being watched by those steady grey eyes through the stockade of darkness; large, unblinking and hungry. Sometimes, the darkness moulded into a wolfish snout. Usually, it remained but a few feet behind Jean and would silently, incessantly hunt him. 

Once, Jean dreamt that he was crossing a highway, his terror only augmented by the silence and absence of cars or headlights. Just as he and Cosette were reaching the end of the road a car pulled up to them quietly, and in it, a grey-eyed, otherwise faceless man invited them in.

Always, Jean would wake up in a silent sweat, and sneak to the bathroom to calm himself. When he returned, Robert would always be awake, eyes closed, pretending to sleep.

 

The sun shone on an open space in the Luxembourg gardens, where the parade was preparing to march. It was a fairly small affair, yet one could not call it discreet with a blindfold. A crowd was slowly gathering, people carrying flags and slogans for homosexual rights, stands where young fags and dykes insistently pushed gay rights fliers in the hands of very suspicious passers-by who would tut disdainfully and speed along the road away from the danger. It was all very queer, and Jean bristled at the conspicuousness of the whole affair, looking worriedly toward Cosette, who, social butterfly as she was, had floated over to the group of younger kids to the farther side of the field. It took a herculean effort for Jean not to go hover around her like a nervous bee, but he stayed put, shuffling from foot to foot feeling self-conscious in his tight jean shorts and a t-shirt which showed off his muscles and, despite himself, his tattoos. Robert had coaxed him into that outfit with flattery and kisses that morning and there was little he could have done to refuse him. He had accepted his fate. 

Distracted by his busy surroundings, he did not notice when someone approached him, and it took Jean barely half of a petrifying second to recognise, with a jolt, a man he thought he was never going to see again in his life. 

“Well, well, well. If it isn’t Je–” the too familiar voice pulled him out of the shock. Jean moved to grab the man by his arm.

“Ultime.” He corrected, keeping his voice down. He watched as the information clicked in the other man’s head, and the man rolled his eyes. “Oh, well,  okay  .” He rolled his eyes. “If it isn’t  Ultime  in flesh and … muscle.” His dark eyes dropped to Jean’s arms. 

“Genflou.” Jean responded, through gritted teeth. 

“I never thought I would see you again, if I’m being honest,” Genflou said, mirroring Jean’s thoughts exactly. He was different from the last time they had seen each other. Jean could remember the man’s sneer as he leaned against his bedpost and watched Jean gather his few belongings on the day of his release. The sneer hadn’t changed, but the skin around it had, and though he looked healthier, the extra years were obvious on him. He was wearing leather pants, a sleeveless top that showed off his wiry arms, and had a leather jacket slung cooly over his shoulder.

At Jean’s appraising silence, Genflou spoke again, “But that’s not to say I’m not glad. My, it’s been what, fifteen years, and you have lost none of your beauty and gained none of my charm.” He flashed a dirty smile. Jean loathed that he still found Genflou somewhat attractive, despite his taste in men having moved away from greasy narcissists. It was a relief when Robert appeared at his side, placing a grounding hand on Jean’s shoulder. “Darling, everything alright? Who’s this?” He smiled at Genflou with an impressively genuine smile. “I’m Genflou, pleasure.” Genflou extended a hand, and Robert shook it strongly. 

“Robert.” 

Jean briefly allowed some satisfaction at that. Robert’s handshake always had been a power move, and he knew Genflou had felt it. “Me and, uh,  Ultime  know each other from way back in the Sixties. Back when, not to brag, I always had a gaggle of boys following me around like I was their duck mother. It must be said, those were the good times, weren’t they, Ultime?” In his smile was a silver tooth. “I believe we remember those times quite differently,” said Jean. “Indeed.” A tense pause followed. 

“You’ve done well for yourself, haven’t you?” Genflou then offered, turning to give Robert a languid once-over. Robert seemed amused, but his hand was a steady presence on Jean’s shoulder. 

“What are you even doing here, Genflou?” “What do you mean? It’s Pride.” Genflou made a flourishing gesture at the rest of the parade, waving at a queen in a blue peacock dress and heavy makeup. She waved back. “I’m afraid duty calls,” He said with an exaggerated pout. Jean found both relief and disappointment at his quick escape. 

“I hope to see you queens around soon.” Genflou seemed ready to move away, when he paused for a moment. “Although, I’ve never seen you at any of my club nights.” “Your  club nights?” Robert asked with a jovial laugh that would only appear mocking if one were to look very, very closely. “Well. I’m the bouncer.” Genflou shrugged. Robert laughed widely. This one was only slightly more obvious. “Well, Robin, it was a pleasure to meet you.” “Uh, Robert.”

Genflou ignored him, and instead, shockingly, walked back to place a gentle kiss on Jean’s cheek. Jean caught a strong, stinging smell of cologne before Genflou moved away again. “Bona nochy  , ladies!” He waved, waggling his painted fingers as he waded his way through the crowd toward his feathery friend. Jean noticed a black handkerchief hanging from Genflou’s back pocket. “He’s cute.”“You say that about every man we speak to.” Jean took a breath, slumping slightly against Robert. Then, “Is he?” “I can’t help it. And yes, but I could see him getting catty.” “Mh. Well, I would love for you to not think that about my ex-cell mate.” Jean lowered his voice, and watched Robert’s eyebrows fly up. He looked at Jean, and he knew they were going to talk about it later, but he didn’t push. Instead he let his hand drop to Jean’s and could do so without thinking, for the conspicuous crowd surrounding them offered a haven, however loud and roiling. It was a small but welcome mercy. “Come on, let’s go see what your daughter is up to.” 

As it turned out, Cosette seemed to have fit into the the parade better than Jean ever would, and had been given a sign and rather overly elaborate face-paint in the time it took for Jean to relive a facet of his past he had hoped would stay buried for the rest of his life. Smiling so widely Jean’s heart ached briefly, Cosette ran up to them as the march was just setting off. 

Jean watched as Cosette waved brightly at her new hair-dyed corduroy friends, the tightness of his heart unrelenting. 

 

 

The rest of the day passed in a colourful blur, and Jean allowed his weariness to bleed out only when his head had hit the pillow, and Robert’s face in the low light glowed with a newly unconcealed concern. “So you met in prison then?” Robert said, his voice kept to a normal volume which sounded to Jean like shouting simply for the sheer unspeakability of the topic. “Lower your voice.” He shuddered. “Yes. He taught me everything I know.” Jean said quietly, and the memories he’d spent the day trying to dispel rushed back to him. “He taught me how to read. Properly.” In flashes he remembered the linoleum stick as he walked the stuffy corridors toward the small prison library, feeling his own breath heavy on his chest. Genflou’s face, younger, looking down as he picked at a healing tattoo on his forearm, his drawl muted in his memories. Most of all, Jean could remember the sharp embarrassment, the blood rushing to his face as he struggled through a translation of  The Sun Also Rises, looking up at Genflou every so often for assurance.

“We… were together.” Even more guarded memories blossomed. Genflou’s muscled thigh fitting snugly against his own as they ate, Genflou’s face closing in on his, hands held tightly against Jean’s shoulders, Genflou unabashedly staring at Jean as he roughly dried himself off in the showers. Their courtship – though Genflou would have sooner called it a hunt – lasted but a few months. When Genflou finally bedded Jean, it was with a look of triumph. He had gained the favour and protection of the strongest man in the facility, Jean le Cric, and offered protection in return. It was not love. “Was he the first man you-” Jean shook his head. “He was my first ever.” “That man took your virginity?” Robert wore a small smile, but he was sad and serious, the skin in the centre of his forehead creasing crisply on his clear skin. Jean nodded, distrustful of his own voice. Genflou had taught him to think in the light of day, and, that first time, stop thinking in the darkness of his cell, a pair of strong fingers twisting inside him. “Jean. Was… was it okay? Did you want it?” Robert’s concern bled into the space between them, and his hand stretched to grasp Jean’s. “Oh.” It was not a question he had ever thought to answer. “Uh, yes. Don’t worry. He never forced me.” He hurried to say, for it was true, in all the obvious ways. Silence ticked. Robert held tighter. “In another life I might not have made the same choices.” He said. “But I was scared, and he felt safe, and I felt cold and he was warm. He knew more than me, he lived through prison like he enjoyed it. I know he didn’t, but he wouldn’t admit it. Not to me.” 

He thought about Genflou sitting in front of him with his legs open on his lower bunk, his hands on each thigh, looking right into Jean’s eyes. “Sometimes it’s about the way you carry yourself, big man.” Genflou always had strands of hair in front of his eyes. Jean became suddenly aware of his curved back, and straightened it a fraction. Genflou showed a flash of teeth derisively.  

“Sometimes, it’s about who you fuck.” Genflou smiled wider. “Take it from me.” Jean felt the man’s hand strongly squeeze his thigh.       “Fuck the Jack and he’ll get you a great deal of protection.” The hand left Jean. Genflou stuffed it down his trousers. Before Jean could react, he pulled out a pack of cigarettes. Jean watched his lower lip curl with the weight of the cigarette. 

 “Fuck the guard and he’ll get you fags.” He lit a match against the rough wall, a small flame blooming between his thumb and forefinger.  “Did you love him?” Robert’s question shook Jean out of the memory. Does the drowning man love the rough rope that pulls him to safety through the storm? “I don’t know.” Jean answered honestly. He and Genflou had left on uncertain terms. Despite the affection Jean inevitably felt for him, as the time of his release drew closer, Genflou’s envy and resentment seemed to fill their every shared moment, and it pushed them farther apart until it became a relief for Jean to see the back of a man he had called a lover, and had wanted to call a friend. Robert pulled him into an embrace. Jean breathed him in. He smelled earthy, the smell of the dusty pottery workshop never truly dispelling, a soft, unobtrusive musk, and the pine scented shampoo they both shared. With it, he tried to push away what still lingered of Genflou, the stench of damp cigarettes and the sharp smell of sweat and chalk, and he wished away the memories of endless sleepless days and nights in solitary confinement, wishing for Genflou’s hands to touch him, everywhere, anywhere. 

 

The spring sun was nearing its zenith when Jean entered the backroom of the pottery with Robert’s lunch in a plastic container. The backroom was his favourite part of the pottery, and not only – he thought as blood rushed to his cheeks – because it was littered with memories of Robert pushing him dangerously up against the metal shelves stacked with drying mugs and bowls, ready for the oven. He liked the clean smell of clay and the cold damp air, especially as the warmer weather approached. 

He entered unannounced, and leant carefully against the work counter, watching quietly as Robert leaned over a sculpture. His backdrop was, much to the amusement of the middle-aged ladies that came to his pottery classes, an entire shelf of beautifully coloured ceramic phalluses. It had started up as a joke, and ended up being an art form, and central to his pottery’s success in the gay district of Paris. College students would peek through the window, enter and tinker around the front shop, pretending to be interested in the pretty bowls and tea sets. Sometimes they would even be vaguely interested in watching Robert paint his signature patterns on sets of plates. Mostly, however, those younger gays, fresh with excitement and tense with coolness would stop in front of the famous shelf, look on in overstated interest, occasionally looking back at Robert in interest and gay recognition, and barely contain their blushing laughter at such a display. 

Older gentlemen would be more discreet, entering the shop in twos or threes. They would admire that particular shelf with the same sober composure of people who frequently found themselves having to stare at lewd artwork and come up with elaborate artistic critique to justify such lewdness. Often, to make themselves known as sophisticated, they would invite Robert to comment on his pieces, throwing around noncommittal innuendos and asking questions like “what was your inspiration?” 

Robert liked to indulge them with equally pretentious answers – though, Jean often noticed, some of the sculptures bore distractingly familiar shapes. These men were the best clients, for they had money to spend and enough space in their fancy apartments to put a peacock blue glazed ceramic penis, with no one to question why a middle aged homosexual would want such a decoration in his home. Despite their differences, it was with these men that Jean felt most kinship, his magistrate days still colouring his interactions with other men, in lieu of his darker days. 

There was one other type of client, which Robert found most infuriating, and that was the quintessential gay man in his thirties, bursting with camp and corduroy, nostalgically reminiscent of his dying twenties. They were less worldly than the older men, and less shy than the tweens, and they were the reason Robert had had to put up the sign, “Decorative Items Only. Not To Be Used As Toys or Inserted Into Apertures of Any Kind.” The tweens found that sign to be doubly amusing. 

Pulling out of his thoughts, Jean cleared his throat. Robert looked over his shoulder, leaning over to offer his cheek to kiss, and Jean complied. 

“Hello, my love. What have you brought me?” Robert eyed the plastic container hungrily. 

“Horiatiki.” Jean said with a smile, perhaps an inch too tight. 

“Mh, delicious. Thanks babe,” Robert replied, eyeing him carefully. “Let me just finish up and then you can tell me what’s wrong.” He turned back to his sculpture, appraising it. It was a man’s naked torso, a bronze coloured wire wrapped tightly around it, as if choking out air from its lungs. Jean swallowed. 

The pause felt endless, even as Robert concentrated on picking at the wire’s end with pliers. 

“It’s Cosette’s birthday in a week.” 

Robert stopped, turning his head an inch to the left. “That’s wonderful, is it not?” He asked carefully. 

Jean closed his eyes. “She’ll be eighteen.” 

Robert sighed, abandoned his pliers and clay hunk, and stood up. He took his lunch from Jean and placed it on a shelf behind him, leaving it in favour of cradling his partner’s now empty hands. Jean’s shoulders sagged further, though the tension remained unalleviated. 

“Yes,” Robert said routinely, this conversation repeated between them over the years as Cosette grew up, “and she’s not going anywhere.” 

“You’ve seen her. She’s desperate to get out of the convent and see the world.” The last words Cosette had said herself the day before, during Jean’s daily visit. 

Robert sighed, “I do think that’s quite normal for a teenager. Especially one who’s been stuck in a nun school for years.”

Jean frowned at him, hurt. It was a point of contention between them, that of Cosette’s education, though Robert could only ever comment on what Jean chose for his own daughter, and he rarely overstepped. Robert seemed only slightly apologetic. 

“She’s not been stuck,” Jean said, lowering his voice. 

“Of course, darling, but now she’s happy to be out of there. That isn’t a bad thing.” 

Though disturbed, guilt washing at the shore of his stomach, Jean conceded. 

“She’ll be moving in with us then.” He frowned at Robert hopefully. “I know,” said Robert simply. 

“We need to pack up all your beautiful cocks.” Jean pouted at him, his hands coming to rest together at the base of Robert’s neck. 

“That’s the real tragedy.” Robert smiled. They looked into each other’s eyes, and before long, melted into laughter and into each other.

Living with Cosette was, for the most part, a delight. He would wake early to cook elaborate breakfasts for her and Robert, his heart fluttering wildly when he watched the two sit at the table, eyes swollen with sleep, ready to eat whatever he placed in front of them without discrimination. In the evenings, when Robert wasn’t locked up in his pottery working himself stupid on his newest project, and Cosette wasn’t locked up in her room doing the things (Jean would think anxiously) all teenagers do locked up in their rooms – like ruin their eyes with obscure magazines, ruin their ears with those ghastly headgears and Walkmans – they would watch television together. Everyone knew Jean would usually spend more time being teary eyed and looking proudly at his family than paying any attention to screen.

Cosette moving into their apartment also shifted Jean and Robert’s relationship – for one thing, they could no longer live the blissful life of long time lovers, and had to continually check themselves on the kind of language that would be appropriate to use with each other when Cosette was around. She helped by being thoroughly annoyed at any kind of physical affection, and leaving the room in a storm if it ever occurred. Despite Robert’s reassurances, Jean had often worried she’d been raised by the convent nuns to find what he shared with Robert to be condemnable. He began praying a lot more beneath her scrutiny, as if showing her that despite his desires, he was a godly man, and that God, above all things, loved. 

Any attempt at this would go unnoticed and unappreciated. Cosette was entirely wrapped up in the throes of adolescence, and worry grew on Jean like vines. One vine tugged at him quite violently when Cosette, a fateful day in July, leaned her head out of her room. Jean, who was sitting in a chair reading about urban gardening, noticed an unfamiliar pink streak hidden in her chestnut hair. He tucked his disapproval away when another, much bigger problem arose. 

“Hey, Dad, I’m going out tonight.” She said nonchalantly, a tone that was contradicted by her attentive eyes. 

Jean balked. That was it. No question, no permission asked, no nothing.  I’m going out tonight.  A million thoughts exploded in Jean’s mind. He spluttered. “What?”

Cosette pursed her lips. 

“I’m going out.” 

The main thing that Jean was thinking had nothing to do with  where Cosette intended to go out to, but that is what he said. 

“Out. With friends?” 

After the brief shock, Jean got over himself and evaluated his options. If he said ‘No’, Cosette would argue that she was an adult, and could decide for herself. It would lead to a long argument he did not wish to have. If he said ‘Okay’, Cosette would go out. It would lead to an agonizing night of worrying. He realised that he was slightly afraid of his teenage daughter. He opted for the next best thing. 

“Who are your friends?” 

“You don’t know them.” 

“Where did you meet them?” 

“Around.” 

“Around  where? ” 

“Ugh . Dad. Jesus. I met them at Pride.”

Jean thought back to the group of what he thought were twenty-somethings he had glimpsed fluttering around Cosette.

“You met your friends at Pride?” He repeated dumbly. 

Cosette fired him an incensed look. 

“And you’re going out with them?” 

“Yes.” 

“How old are they?” Jean heard his voice go higher with every question.

She shrugged vaguely. “Some are my age.”

“Where are you going?” Anything to have her stay, have her talk to him, not watch her fade away with makeup so heavy around her eyes he could barely recognise her. 

“I don’t know yet.” She challenged, and Jean already knew he had lost her. Her voice was quivering with defiance, and she was on the brink of disappearing.

“And when will you be back?” 

“Fuck, Dad, I don’t know! I’m an adult and I don’t have to tell you what I’m doing all the time, okay? It’s not like you don’t go out!”

“Cosette, listen-” 

“No, you listen. I’m sick of this. I’m going now.” She slammed the door to her room and reappeared a ringing minute later with a bag slung across her shoulder. She stormed to the door.

“Cosette!” Jean stood up to stop her. 

“Where are you going?” He desperately wanted to know, and his entire chest was heating up with dread. 

“To my boyfriend!” Cosette shouted, her face flushed with anger, and the front door slammed in his face.

Jean stood there for longer than he would have admitted to his daughter, his chest heaving. The rational part of his brain scrambled to remind him that she was a teenager, and this is what teenagers do, they rebel for the sake of rebelling. But fear thrashed in his chest, pulled his lungs down into his stomach, and he walked back to the couch to collapse, holding his head in his hands. 

He heard Robert step out of their shared room and stop at the door. He lifted his gaze and didn’t care that there was pity in Robert’s eyes. 

“What was that?” Jean asked hoarsely. Robert smiled. 

“You asked too many questions.” He said simply. Jean groaned. 

“‘Boyfriend’?” Jean repeated, trying to shape the word in his mouth so it would have meaning. He thought back to the boys he had seen at pride, but no one's face stood out to him. They all seemed young (not as young as Cosette, he fretted) and they all seemed gay through and through. Nothing added up in his head. Where was Cosette now? It was early in the afternoon, but the thought of her walking alone with a duffel bag across the city made his heart clench painfully.

“She’s eighteen, Jean.” 

“A gay boyfriend?” 

“I’m sure that her boyfriend is not gay.” 

Jean didn’t care. None of it mattered. Cosette hated him and was probably not going to return. He briefly imagined himself filing a Missing Persons report at the police, and the thought made him sick to his stomach. It was a good thing he hadn’t had lunch today.

“If it’s the boy who worries you,” continued Robert, “you should ask her to invite him over to dinner so we can meet him.” He walked over and placed a hand on Jean’s shoulder, squeezing caringly. 

“If she ever comes back.” Jean said miserably. 

Robert let out an earnest laugh. “She will, my love.”

As always, Robert was right. That night, when Jean was tossing around his bed in anxious agony, he heard the door open and close, and Cosette’s light steps making their way to her room. Though still miserable, the emotional turmoil had exhausted him, and Jean fell asleep soon after. 

The following days consisted of Jean being overly understanding of Cosette’s ventures, allowing her a breadth of space that was excruciating for him to maintain. On a late June Monday, Cosette walked into the kitchen with a letter in her hand, and tossed it across the table to Jean. 

“Thank you.” Jean said, his voice scraping awkwardly. He cleared his throat. 

“Cosette. If you would like…” He paused a moment, waiting for some sign of general resistance to conversation from Cosette. None arose. “I would love to meet this boy of yours. Invite him to dinner, perhaps.” 

Cosette took a breath. When he looked up to her, he was surprised to see her smiling, pleased. 

“That would be nice.” She said, and seeing her smile at him for the first time in a week almost brought tears to his eyes. He lowered his gaze to hide it. “Thanks, Dad.” He heard Cosette linger before walking out. 

Dazed, he turned his attention to the letter, which lacked an address and had scrawled on the back of it ‘Ultime’ in messy ink. When he opened it, a black and red leaflet fell out. On the front was a muscular man in a leather harness. Over him, in block letters, were the words ‘Growl: Leather & Kink’ and below ‘Find your prey’ and an address. 

With it a note fell out. It read:

 ‘Would love to see you and your bear again. Join the fun. You deserve it.     Yours always, Genflou 

 Xxx ’ 

Jean felt his face heat. He tucked the note in the pocket of his jeans. 



The lone wolf does well in a crowd, hot bodies pressing against each other as he shifts through them, looking over each face, searching for a larger, stronger creature to make him kneel and cower. He is not slowed by substance, though he knows how little sleep he will get if he finds the perfect beast. The faces are boringly familiar, he notes as he scans the crowd, too young and too prim to satisfy him. He moves to the back, where the freaks wait, lined up against the wall. He must never go directly to them, a trick he has learned. The hunt, on these grounds, is about being spotted, desired, pursued. He stalks by them, leather clinging to every inch of his body, aware he is being watched through his leather cage bars. A first approaches, then a second, too tall, too narrow. The man he wants is the last one, shoulders so wide he wonders how he got them through the door. Dark eyes on him, still unsure. The wolf locks on him, he lets his eyes blink slowly. He angles his body toward him, gloved hands tracing his leathered chest, inviting. Finally, he lets his arm come to rest on his crotch, watching the eye of the beast light up with want. Below the leather, he licks his lips. Success. 



 

 


The smoke entered his lungs, and opened them up against the balmy June air. Javert was not an indulgent man, a fact he took great pride in. The things he did that might be read as indulgences, as pleasure-seeking, as weakness; he recognised them as pure necessity. Except, perhaps, smoking. That he admitted to himself systematically. Two cigarettes a day, not a single more and usually no less. This cigarette was the first of the day. The young training officer under his wing looked at him, wide-eyed and disconcerted, and Javert removed the cigarette from his lips, looking back at him intently. A moment of silence passed. 



“Inspector Javert.” Rivette said, without continuing. 



Javert took another drag of his cigarette and continued to look intently at Rivette through his sunglasses, knowing his eyes were unseen. Rivette swallowed. 






“I was thinking… about my career?” 






Javert said nothing. 



“Do you think,” he paused for an unnecessary breath, “do you think I could become an Inspector?” 



Javert took off his glasses this time, and resisted massaging his temples. He leaned his head closer to Rivette, from his intimidating extra head of height. 



“Rivette.”



“Sir.” 



“Are you slow?” Javert articulated each word strongly. 



Rivette spluttered, looking hurt very briefly before a proud frown set in. 



“No, sir.” 



“Then stop asking me idiotic questions.” 



Javert believed it was an idiotic question, but he knew the man in front of him was far from an idiot. Rivette was amongst the most diligent junior officers of the force, the only one who had endured Javert’s supervision without complaint, and only demonstrated the healthy amount of intimidation and fear of his inspector needed to carry out a good job. It was something Javert would be only willing to concede were Rivette to do something particularly impressive. Praise was not to be given out freely.



Rivette stayed silent, his lips closed tight in an attempt to conceal his dislike of Javert. 

Good

, thought Javert. Their job did not include being nice or 

liking

 each other. 



After a while, Rivette spoke again, unable to stay quiet as Javert finished his cigarette.



“We’re off of the Guilloux murder case.” 



At that, Javert’s mood, which had been discreet, immediately soured. 



“Yes.” His upper lip curled at the thought. “It was given to Gisquet’s men, though they are hardly qualified to deal with such a case.” 



“Have you looked at the new case we’ve been assigned? Rue Pastourelle?”



Javert froze. Rue Pastourelle was a small road just off Rue des Archives, a smaller street one would trail off to as the night got darker. How many men had he watched stumble drunkenly down the darkened staircase, before doing so himself, chasing the high that would allow his mind to drift, unthinking? The taste of tobacco smoke on his tongue hardly grounded him as he was reminded of that Saturday night. 



“Rue Pastourelle.” He repeated, trying to school his expression back to a resting expression, stoic as ever. He pushed his sunglasses up despite the shade, grateful that they hid his eyes at least. 



“Yes sir, it seems to be a site of – uh,” he hesitated, then coughed. “Uh–” 






“Homosexuals.” Javert interrupted him.



“Beg pardon?” Rivette chanced a look at him before resolutely looking back at the wall of the courtyard at the back of the police station. Javert frowned, filing the information away for another time. 



“There are two sites that sell alcohol without a permit on Rue Pastourelle, and both of them are frequented by crossdressers and homosexuals. I imagine there will be plenty of 

other 

illegal activities to be found happening there.” Javert had not yet read the report, but these raids were routine, and he knew the details better than the report would in any case. The higher-ups had started paying less attention to the Marais in the last few years, so the report did not bode well for the next few months. 






Javert slammed his heel down to extinguish his cigarette with more force than necessary, and stalked back inside, Rivette trailing behind him in silence.



A few minutes later, after shedding Rivette at his desk with work to do, Javert stood with his back straight as an arrow in front of the Chief Superintendent’s office. He knocked twice. 



“Enter.” 



Javert entered. Chief Chabouillet was at his desk, tapping a pen against the wood absentmindedly as he looked up to receive the Inspector’s visit, his stance relaxed and serious, confidence pouring out his every crevice and taking Javert, as always, by surprise. Or perhaps that was the strong smell of cigars, and the fact that his shirt was unbuttoned a button too low to be considered proper. Javert diverted his eyes from the curly chest hair so quickly he was briefly worried his eyeballs had locked in place. He blinked once and saluted the Chief in his perfect academy-renowned form. 



Chabouillet, his plump lips curling arrogantly, swept his free hand at the chair in front of his desk. 



“Sit, Javert. What’s roiling in that hard head of yours?” His tone was less formal than Javert could deal with, and discomfort bristled in him, preparing to rise. He did as he was told, stiffly, folding his hands in front of him. He took a deep breath, dropping his shoulders a fraction. 



“Sir. I would like to ask for a favour,” Javert said, his temples tight with discomfort. 



Chabouillet’s smile widened, and he looked at Javert with an appraising look. 



“Why, Inspector!” He exclaimed, “I thought you’d never ask! Of course! What can I do for you?” Big, crisp laughter filled the room. 



“I ask to be taken off the team for Rue Pastourelle this Friday.” 



Chabouillet’s smile faltered, but didn’t disappear. He smoothed down his moustache, his cheeks lifting in amusement. 



“Javert, you know I can’t do that. Why ever would I?” 



Javert’s stomach sunk slowly and unpleasantly, and he wiped the perspiration blooming from his heavy brow. 



“Sir, I must insist. I have not asked for anything more than I am due in the time that–” 



“What in God’s name are you talking about, my man? Are you sick? Do you need time off?” 



Javert tried not to recoil at the suggestion. “Absolutely not, sir, I would like to be assigned a different job, or I should like to use my time to do paperwork.” 



“A reason, Javert! Surely this of all jobs–” 



“I do not feel comfortable performing this duty, as it stands.” Javert said with finality. 



Chabouillet let out a surprised laugh, less pleasant than the first. Javert looked down at his knees, which felt hollow, and he wondered how much it would hurt to be slammed down and have them hit the dark linoleum floor of the Chief’s office. He pushed the thought away with a violent shock and his eyes snapped diligently back to Chabouillet as he spoke again. 



“Comfortable! This is the police, Inspector.”



“I realise, sir.” 



“Then I don’t see what the problem is!” 



Despite himself, Javert remembered his head hitting the sweating wall, being both grateful and frustrated by the layer of protection, the heat of the colossal body against him. Who would he have to rip from such bliss? What would he be finding in the stained toilet stall to the far left? He could see it so vividly against his eyelids, right down to the man staring right at him through the mirror. His eyes came back into focus, onto Chabouillet’s astonished expression. 



“My God, Javert, you are a strange one. Most men in your position would ask any number of favours, and to you of all people, I would give them! But this!” Chabouillet swirled his finger righteously in the air for emphasis, “No. I need you for this. There is nobody more qualified and capable than you for an organised raid, and that is what I want from you. You understand me?” 



Javert’s throat, impossibly dry, struggled to pull in air. He nodded once, slowly, plunging his reluctance into the depths of his lungs where it settled conspicuously, and his upper back straightened against the cushioned seat. 



“Now, let us not go over this again. When you have real favours–” Chabouillet winked with his entire face, “to ask, I will do, as always, my best to provide.” 



Javert stood up. 



“Yes sir.” 



The silence stretched for several moments too long, when the Chief finally gave in.



“You are dismissed, Javert.” 



Javert inclined his head and turned to leave. He paused, his hand hovering for half a second on the silver doorknob letting the perspiration from his palm rest there. Then he promptly left the office. 


 

 


His evening patrol, Javert had hoped, should have taken his mind off the incoming danger, and allowed him to concentrate on his duty. Hope was fickle, in that regard. 



It was at the tame hour of ten in the evening when Javert dragged a man out of the bushes, as the other one was chased down by Rivette. He had barely glanced at the two men, barely heard their grunts as a pair of pale buttocks stuttered, trainer shoes stained with a shot of cum, and the receiving end fled through the thicket. One had been caught, and Javert noted with a strange sort of panic that the man had not been wearing underwear, or protection for that matter, as far as he could see. As he was brought out into the scope of the streetlight, the man, about a head shorter than Javert, flicked a curtain of greasy hair back, cocking his head at him. 



“You caught me.” He slurred with a derisive smile.



He was drunk, and maybe high. Javert recognised him with a jolt, and resisted from looking into his eyes to evaluate his state of lucidity. He looked away as he unhooked handcuffs from his belt. His eyes lifted meaningfully to Rivette, who straightened and began reciting the man’s rights. The man let himself be cuffed with no protest, and listened blankly. Javert’s mind, not for the first time, struggled to grasp at its seams, shuffling through every criminal face that had passed in front of his line of vision in fifteen years of service, desperate for some sort of spark of recognition. He was going to have to call in for a check on him, just to make sure. It was no use though. Javert recognised this man from elsewhere. His life seemed to be rushing at growing speed toward ruin. 



“Shame you’re a pig…” The man said again, sounding more sober the second time around. Javert turned to check who he was speaking to. The man was looking ahead, but he was leaning on Rivette’s arm like an old man. 



“You’d do well in my circles.” 



Rivette swallowed, and half heartedly shoved the man forward so he was walking in front of him. 






“Quiet,” growled Javert, “unless you want to spend more than a night in the cell.”



“Do I get to spend that time with you?” The man turned a mocking gaze toward Javert instead. Javert couldn’t help but shoot a disgusted look back at him, but thought it best to look away quickly. The car was precisely six minutes away at Javert’s normal pace. Javert sped up.



The procedure, save for Javert’s growing dread, went according to protocol. The report was processed:

 Marcel Genflou, 52, Male, White. 

The ‘identifying marks’ section took a while to fill out, as the arrestee was doing his very best to hide his tattoos. In the white light of the police station, Genflou’s pupils were blown and black. A scar on the side of his eye socket made his face harder to look at, and Javert told himself it was the only reason he kept diverting his eyes so readily. Once the report was handed in, Javert undid the cuffs from behind the man’s back and locked them again at his front, and pushed him into an empty cell. It was Wednesday night. 



Genflou sat, his legs wide and his back crouched comically, and he looked at Javert through the teal bars. Javert felt himself swallow. 



“You think I’m fucking dense, don’t you?” Genflou said, his mouth forming into a sneer of frank disgust. His voice was so different from the slurred tenor he had used in the park. Javert swallowed. 



“I’ve seen you.” Genflou spat, his upper lip curling to reveal an ugly set of teeth. “I 

see 

you. In the clubs, in the backrooms, getting fucked like a sheep.” 



Blood thrumming in his veins, Javert closed his eyes, wishing he could stop existing, wishing the logical part of him would let him leave. Genflou stood up and walked closer to the bars, his jaw working visibly. 



“You thought you could hide from me? With a fucking dog mask?” His voice was rough with fury. The silence rang out, Javert’s mind was blank with panic, and something darker. 



Genflou’s mouth moved as if he was chewing, and before Javert could realise what was happening, Genflou spat at his face. 



“I own your miserable little life.” Genflou bared his teeth on the last word. 



To Javert’s dismay, anger was not the first reaction as spit stung his eyes and trailed down his nose and cheek. Arousal, sharp and discomfiting flushed through him. The anger came immediately after. 



“You think anyone’s going to believe 

you.

” Javert grabbed Genflou through the bars and looked up and down at him as he wiped the spit off his face. Javert wondered again if Genflou had used a condom that night. He wondered if he used them at all. 






Genflou smiled wider.  






“They already know you’re a freak. Confident that they won’t look into it if I spill the beans? I of all people know overconfidence to be the downfall of men. This is a warning. Touch me again and you’re finished.” He pulled away, and Javert let him go in favour of tightening his own fist so hard his nails pierced the skin of his palm. The thoughts felt slow as mud, floating to the forefront of his mind. With the thoughts came guilt, so powerful it made his pride relinquish a fraction. Nothing but painted bars and an ounce of obedience separated him from the man in front of him, separated Javert from shame, filth, disease, lust, gluttony; all the things he fought against in the light of day. Genflou happened to be telling a truth Javert liked to avoid. The decision came like a gut punch. 






“Friday. 

Madame Sadie 

in Rue Pastourelle,” he said. 



“What?” Genflou hissed. Hostility crackled between them. 



“Don’t be there if you don’t want your ass back here by Saturday ,” Javert said, tight lipped. 



Genflou scoffed, and, for some reason, with less hostility than before, smiled slowly. He looked like he was about to say more, but Javert left before he could.





 








Despite Javert’s frantic feeling of impending doom, the raid went without his fears realising. Of the two establishments on Rue Pastourelle, only one was open, and despite it being a Friday night, it was emptier than expected. No doubt Genflou had had something to do with that, and Javert found himself sagging in relief as he lined up the men at the bar to search them, and recognised none of them. Considerably fewer than Javert knew the club to be in possession of, crates of alcohol were confiscated and patrons were sent on their way with a warning. Nobody opposed the police, nobody protested. Merely four arrests for drug possession were made, which Javert knew to be a number too low for these people. 



The thought that he had been the very reason for it made him ache. He thought about Genflou’s surprise, his smile, unconcealed. He thought about the danger he had put himself in, and couldn’t bring himself to care.



He took the chance to check back-rooms and toilets, letting himself fall briefly into his other self. The toilets were his favourite part of the club; he liked the lull of stepping out of the music and into another dimension, home to muffled beats, barely concealed moans, the smell of piss and cum and the knowledge that he could be barely inches away from being fucked bareback against the thin plywood walls of a stall if he wanted. Not that he ever did. He was learning to love the dead taste of latex in his mouth. He was shook from his reverie by Rivette, who entered the toilets cautiously, looking around as if ready for a rogue homosexual to jump out at him from behind a door. Javert smiled wrily. 



“Inspector, the owners have been called down. They’re on their way now.” Rivette reported. 



Javert licked the inside of his lips. “Let the scum know I’m coming.” 



He didn’t know from which Javert the disgust came from. The Inspector or the Wolf? He supposed it did not matter. 









 


Javert was distracted as he sat down and stared at his damned paperwork. He had several reports to fill in about the raid, and was acutely aware of Chabouillet’s bad mood in the days following it. It had been a failed affair, and possibly had put the Chief in an uncomfortable position with his superiors. The Chief’s palpable suspicion – after Javert had requested to be removed from that very job – was not something Javert would blame him for. 






He had to stop worrying and finish his work before the end of his shift. He patiently waited on the phone for Chapelle to pick up. 



“Chapelle speaking, who is it?”  A bored voice crackled through the phone. 



“It’s Javert.” 






Chapelle groaned unabashedly. “Yes?”



“I need you to run a check on one Marcel Genflou. Family background, criminal record, prison register, anything. Be quick about it.”



“I’d be on break all day if it wasn’t for you, Javert,” Chapelle said, hardly concealing his obvious irritation. 



“It’s a good thing I’m here then,” Javert said blankly, and put the phone down. That job was done, now all that was left was to wait. One of the younger officers passed by his desk and dropped an envelope on it without looking at him. Javert knew it was out of fear rather than disrespect, but bristled nonetheless.



Thoughtlessly, he knifed open the envelope and his breath caught in his throat when a leathered man looked up at him from the flier. ‘Find your prey’ in a glossy font covered the man’s crotch. 



With the flier was a small note. It read:






‘

Seems right up your alley, fag. 







- Genflou x’



 


Javert needed another cigarette. 


 

 



The lone wolf must know the grounds he hunts on, must be familiar with its rules and rulers, provisions and packs. He must never step into a clearing exposed, with little understanding of his ways out, hidden paths, backwoods, backrooms, backdoors, exits, a nod to the boy behind the counter, the Dominant guarding the inner corridor, the bouncer, the oldcomers, even the owner. The lone wolf knows, he sees, he studies. Nobody sees him. Leather is his home, safety and bliss. 




It happened, exactly as Javert expected it. The moment he stepped into the venue, a low lit office-space-turned-dungeon, a grand majority of the men already spread out across the room turned to look at him. It was not the first time it had happened to him that way, and he supposed a height of six feet and a head had to account for something. He walked in slowly, revelling in the looks filled with desire and the occasional display of envy. He liked it, liked being watched and wondered about, the idea of his cover being blown sending a spike of fear down his spine, and warming his belly with arousal. He nodded to a few men he recognised, older than him and a safe staple at every leather and S&M event in Paris. He relaxed his shoulders a fraction, looking over the room some more, content with his anonymous notoriety.



The men there were all slathered in leather, some hiding behind masks like him, most too content with their faces to do so – and perhaps having no need for it. Bare skin and dark hair, fat and muscles were all worn proudly beneath the harness, and the atmosphere was… warm. Javert searched for the underlying tension, one he would seek out for release. He deliberately avoided the men who had already had him, preferring not to repeat himself. He was snapped out of his thoughts when his eyes caught onto Genflou, just as he was moving his hair out of his eyes, and Javert watched as it fell right back in front of his face, as if in slow motion.




Genflou. 




Javert wished he had a safe, logical reason for which he had accepted the invitation. This was a party like any other, one in hundreds that Javert could attend, now he had built his network of connections simply by virtue of being nameless, faceless and rumoured to have enjoyed triple fistings in his early days (and it would do him no good to deny). There was no good reason to be there, yet he was, and when his eyes caught on the man, his temples started pulsing with blood. Genflou knew. Genflou, possibly, was the one man in the entire dungeon that knew about him, and could ruin him. Javert’s leather strap felt tight against his crotch as he made his way across the room to him, his boots sounding against the hardwood floor. 



It was as Javert approached that he realised Genflou had his attentions elsewhere, talking to two other men, one of which seemed thoroughly out of place wearing plain Levi’s, a flimsy lilac shirt, his only hint of leather some sturdy boots, with too much shine to be a worker’s. 



Across his forearm was a tattoo, an ornate knife, and below it, Javert glimpsed the hint of scarred skin. 



Shaking him out of dazed observations came Genflou’s sharp voice, lisping with purpose. 



“Ciao darling!” He exclaimed, and despite his height, he pulled Javert into his side and lay a hand right on the small of his back, somewhat possessively. Javert looked down.  



“Robert, Ultime, this is my friend, the 

Wolf

.” Genflou introduced him, and gave him a nudge for him to look up.  






“I’m sure you’ve seen him around already.” Just as Genflou spoke, his voice dripping with meaning, Javert lifted his head, and met a set of familiar blue eyes. The expression of disbelief, the feeling that he had been caught off guard, the recognition, the fear of being 

seen

 – he may as well have been looking into a mirror. 



The man right next to him leaned in, with a sincere smile and a more appropriately leather outfit, and grabbed Javert’s gloved hand, shaking it with vigorous strength which Javert barely managed to match. 



“Robert, nice to meet you. Love the get-up by the way.” He winked.



Javert coughed. He glanced at Genflou, who gave away nothing through his sly smile. Javert wondered how it could be that such a small man could make him want to kneel in the way he did, and the thought came to him unconcealed. In a normal situation he would compartmentalise it, push it away and focus on work. Here, he was already halfway into subspace, his cock hard, his head fogged with arousal and the smell of sweat as the thick summer heat stuffed the room with discomfort, and snaked its way between leather and skin. 



The lilac man looked at him with bland friendliness, the strange mix of surprise and fear wiped entirely from his face. He took his hand and shook it weakly, proving his bulging muscles wrong. Javert found himself strangely disappointed. 






“Ultime.” He said firmly. 






Javert nodded. 
Ultime spoke again “Forgive me, but I don’t think we have ever met.” Javert looked up into his eyes, frustrated to find them blank. 



Before he could respond, Genflou laughed. “Oh, I don’t know. This one has an unforgettable face. If you ever get him to take this bloody mask off,” and he reached up to pat Javert on his leathered cheek. Javert resisted the urge to knee the man in the stomach. He breathed through it, still feeling the heat of Genflou’s hand resting just above his ass. His crotch felt hot and tight. 



Ultime nodded politely, and Javert watched him slip his hand into Robert’s trouser pocket familiarly. Robert placed his hand over it protectively. 



“Nice to meet you. We’ll talk later, Genflou.” They began turning away. 



“If you find me!” Genflou said as a way of goodbye. When the two had turned, Genflou took Javert by the collar and pulled him down to his level. 





“Tell me I’m getting lucky tonight, cocksucker.” 



Javert nodded, slowly, as to not reveal his eagerness. 



A few minutes later, when he was pushed down onto the tiled floor of the toilet, cleaning Genflou’s boots with his mouth, with semen running down his cheeks and eyes tight shut to stop them from stinging, all he could see was lilac and blue. 



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Jean’s jean-clad shin was touching the metal leg of the table, just so his knee could touch the leg of the man sitting across from him. Genflou was smoking a rolled cigarette, which he had licked closed while holding Jean’s gaze, and had made him look away, flushed. To his surprise, the smell of burning tobacco did not disgust him. Nostalgia for a time that he had no right to feel nostalgic about bubbled up within him. 



To avoid Genflou’s searing gaze, Jean looked around. They were sitting outside a Marais bar, on chairs too small and rickety to be comfortable, the dirty street still bustling as the sun set and washed Genflou in a soft orange glow. Jean felt weak with gratitude that after everything they had lived through, they could sit together, legs touching through fabric, in Paris in the summer. Free. 



Genflou took a drag of his cigarette, looking immaculate in his arrogance. Jean wondered if the man knew that the very act of his head moving to meet the cigarette with his lips made Jean’s groin tighten. He decided that if Genflou were to notice, Jean would not mind, he would even be glad for it. The realisation thrilled him. 



“So.... what did your hubby think about you getting all joshed up to meet me?” Genflou spoke in his cracking, haughty baritone that always surprised Jean with its gravity. How a man so physically unassuming could call all to attention with his gritty charm was incredible and infuriating. 



Jean smiled. “Robert is a very understanding man.”



“Truly?” Genflou’s eyebrow cocked delectably, and Jean again secretly scolded himself for finding the man so attractive.  “He did not seem to like me when I ambushed you two the other day.”



“You’d be surprised.” 



Genflou gave away nothing but a smirk. He reached the end of his cigarette, and stamped the butt to the floor. Jean, leaning back, watched it crush beneath his boot. He swallowed. 



“Open, then?” Genflou asked, while looking away, squinting as if turning his attention to something else. A casual question, a casual gesture, just like the two of them meeting here, in the light of day, after promising to never step foot into their past again. Jean could see right through him, and was softened by what he found. His own foot moved ever so slightly to join his. He could feel his own breaths coming short. 



“In a way.” Jean said, because a ‘Yes’ seemed like too much, too soon. 



He watched Genflou’s Adam’s apple move slowly down the line of his throat. 



“You’re an odd man,” Genflou said, leaning forward, pushing himself up onto his elbows. Jean felt himself pulled forward too. 



“Jean Valjean.” Genflou whispered as he hooked his shin to Jean’s, cast his dirt green gaze deep into his eyes, and stretched his fingers against Jean’s hand. It was the closest to being pressed together with every inch of their bodies, the closest thing to being owned that Jean had felt in sixteen years. He let out a breath that had been gripping to his lungs, and it felt like letting go for the first time. In that moment, so close, he could have leaned in and kissed him, and tasted tobacco and Aperol, and it would have been perfect. But the table leaned forward, bucking under Genflou’s weight, their gaze broke, the moment was lost. 



It took Jean a moment to remember that they had never shared a kiss in all the years they had spent together in prison. Genflou had fucked him into the thin mattress, the slick shower stall, the yard wall, the floor, and once, the non-fiction bookshelf farthest from the entrance of that stale prison library. And not once had they shared a kiss. Frost spread through Jean as Genflou picked up his fallen pack of cigarettes.



“These fuckin’ tables.” Genflou rumbled. Jean, before he could change his mind, stood up, slapping a generous amount of money on the table, weighing it down with a few coins, and began walking away, toward the patch of green nearest to his apartment, away from the tight pavement. 



“Oi!” Genflou shouted after him. Jean heard him swear in a lowered voice, scrambling to reach him. Jean walked faster. 



“Fuck. Stop.” Genflou asked, trying to grab Jean’s arm. 



Jean ignored him.



“Jean, please!” 



Jean turned on his heels and grabbed Genflou by the arm.



“How many times do I have to remind you to not call me th–” Their faces were suddenly inches from each other. Genflou leaned up quickly, his lips touching Jean’s for the longest moment of his life… Until Jean shoved him away, looking around quickly, hoping that other passersby had not noticed, or cared too little to stop. 



“What was that about?” Genflou stood close, his hands cupping Jean’s elbows pacifyingly. Jean’s heart was pounding, blood pumping in his ears. He took a few breaths, glad to see Genflou’s coolness had turned into worry lines on his forehead. 



“Look, Genflou. We’ve been through a lot.” 



Genflou let out a gentle scoff, looking down. 



“What’s going on here? You tell me, Jean.” He looked back up, and his filthy green eyes were searching, not mocking. 



“Don’t–”



“I’m not going to call you by a fake fucking name. Nobody cares, darling.” 



The pet name echoed in Jean’s mind, reminding him of Robert. Softening, he relented. He asked if they could return to Genflou’s flat, despite how close they were to the pottery, fearing they might meet Cosette. 



Genflou shook his head. “We can go sit in the park.” 



Jean accepted. The conversation was stilted, Jean still clinging to the tense moments they had shared, Genflou lost in thought, perhaps wondering what it was that they were sharing. Two men with a heavy past, allowing each other to carry some of the weight. Their hands would brush, Genflou growing bolder in his touches and jests, Jean more conservative as he shared with him his love for another man. When the sun set for good, rapidly dropping them into darkness, Jean wondered out loud.



“You get up to a lot at night, don’t you?”



Genflou smiled in the night shade of the trees as they walked toward the entrance gates. 



“I wouldn’t want to shock you. I get the feeling you’re a lot more vanilla than you let on.” He sparred back. 



Jean felt his face heat. 



“Do not put me on the spot.” They laughed. 



After a moment of silence, Jean spoke again. “That man following you around like a dog the other night…” 






Genflou looked at him quickly, frowning, and their eyes met. 



“You recognised him?” Genflou said.



“What?” 



Genflou shook his head. “Right. Of course.” 



“Was he– was he at Toulon?” Jean asked, his breath coming shorter as he tried to bring back to memory the hundreds of faces that had haunted the corridors of the place that devoured his youth. 



Genflou, looking conflicted, rubbed his forehead. 



“Rules are rules. He wears that shit for a reason.”



Jean’s heart was beating hard, and he flushed thinking about Genflou pushing a man so much larger than him, covered in leather from head to toe against an old tiled shower wall.



“I see.” Jean said, and he closed his eyes, trying to dispel the incoming wave of filthy images. When was he going to stop acting like a teenager?


 

 


It was the day before Jean was due to meet Marius– Cosette’s 

alleged

 boyfriend – and Jean was sleepless, and frustrated. Seeing Genflou had left a worm eating at his mind, and any time he closed his eyes so much of his life would come back to him, so heavy he felt it weigh down his shoulders painfully. Jean stared at himself in the bathroom mirror, age sagging his face and exhaustion discolouring it. He thought about Jean le Cric, younger and yet older than he will ever be, he thought about Madeleine, grey and stoic and scarred. And then, he thought of another man. The man without a face, yet eyes so familiar… and a voice. A voice he thought he knew. 




The muffled beat of club music shivers through the walls, and in time with it he places a foot in front of the other on the linoleum floor. He is naked, but the heat is unbearable, and a sheen of sweat covers his entire body. It’s uncomfortable to walk against the cold floor, the stale air. His breaths heave. He knows this place, he remembers suddenly, and with the recognition, he realises the walls are closing in. He tries to run, his left leg dragging painfully down the white brick corridor. He reaches a door, the entrance to the showers. He must have been looking for them. The distant sound of water running, the smell of steam and soap fill his senses. He walks in, fear walking in with him, and he steps by each shower stall, each empty, as he gets closer to the last row, where steam rises. 





Finally, after an eternity, he reaches the last stall. A man stands beneath the hot jet of water, facing away. He is dressed in leather chaps, heavy boots, wide shoulders and thin waist covered by a studded jacket. His long black hair tied back, and he wears a cap like a prison guard. A porno. The man turns his head first, bares sharp teeth like an animal, then turns to face him completely. His eyes are covered by sunglasses, but his chest is bare, and Jean knows him. He has touched that chest. 





“Valjean.” The man speaks in a rumble. 

That voice.




“At last. We see each other bare,” and with that he removes his glasses. Grey eyes meet his own, and trail down his naked body. 




With a jolt, Jean woke up in a sweat and sat up in his bed. He didn’t need to look down at himself to see that he was painfully hard. 






Embarrassed, he got up with the sun and let an ice cold shower relax his excitement. The punishing temperature allowed no space for him to think about men in other, steamier showers. He dried himself off, and finally, with fresh clothes, managed to dispel the last of his shameful lust. He had a long day of fretting ahead of him.


 

 


When Jean’s nerves ran thin, the first thing to go was his ability to hold things– an unfortunate fact, seeing as he had spent a very stressful afternoon in the heat of his kitchen, handling hot pans. The table was already set (Robert’s attempt to quell Jean’s anxieties), and all there was left to do was to wait for the pasta bake to be ready, and for Cosette to bring her famous boyfriend home. 



“Relax, Jean.” Robert was sitting on the sofa, doing absolutely nothing. As was his right. 



“Don’t call me Jean in front of him.” Jean fretted around the dining table. 



Robert gave a half scoff at the ridiculousness of the admonition, but didn’t speak back, probably knowing there would be no point in arguing with Jean when he got like this. 



It was just as bad that the timer for the pasta bake to be taken out of the oven came almost simultaneously to the doorbell. Jean’s face dropped into panic, and Robert stood up quickly. 



“Go. I’ll open. It’ll go fine.”



Jean patted down his checkered shirt before remembering he was wearing his frilly housewife apron over it. He ran to the kitchen. 

It was going to be okay

, he thought as he opened the oven, the heat from it slamming into his face. He was just meeting his daughter’s boyfriend, probably a teenager himself, and it wasn’t like Cosette was going to be getting married anytime soon, this dinner did in no way represent a key moment in Cosette’s development that would eventually bring her to leave and decide to never see her father again. At all. He pulled out the steaming pasta bake, bumped his shin to the oven door and slammed it closed with more force than necessary. The bake smelled perfect. He set it on the counter, and let his head drop into his oven gloves, not minding the heat still lingering on them. 

It’s just a boy

, he thought.

 And above all, this would make Cosette happy

. 



The thought cheered him up considerably, and he removed his apron and dusted himself off so as to not embarrass his daughter in front of her boyfriend before walking out.



Chatting awkwardly to Robert and standing next to Cosette, about the same height as her, was instead a thin boyish girl, her hair cropped short at the sides, and her red flushed cheeks dusted with freckles and youth pockmarks. 



“Oh,” Jean interrupted cheerily. “Who’s this young lady?” 



The silence fell like a dome over the room. Robert was looking at Jean sideways, frozen. Cosette’s face was turning red with… 

indignation

? And the new guest’s lips had tightened so much that they disappeared. Jean wondered what on Earth was going on for at least ten excruciatingly long seconds of silence.






Then Cosette let out a squeal.






“This is Marius. My boyfriend.” Her face was red, and her eyes wide with fury at Jean. 






When Jean said nothing, stunned, Robert dove in to save the situation. 






“Would you two like a drink? We have wine or something a little more exciting perhaps?” He directed them both to his liquor shelf. 



Jean fled to the kitchen to have a quick meltdown.



That is how Robert found him a few minutes later, sitting at the kitchen table with his face in his hands. 



“Are you coming out?” Robert asked, placing a hand on Jean’s curved shoulders. Jean looked up to him slowly, and relaxed some more at the sight of Robert’s calm expression. 



“I… I don’t quite understand.” 



Robert sighed. “What is there to understand?”



Jean looked at him blankly. He wondered if he was going mad. 



“Your daughter is out there with her 

boyfriend

,” he enunciated the last word helpfully, “and we have promised them dinner.” 



Jean felt Robert’s hand on his shoulder, stroking soothing circles at the base of his neck. 



Jean leaned into the touch. 



“You’re right. This is normal.” He got up. 



The dinner was, as expected, quite excruciatingly awkward. Jean kept shooting worried glances at Cosette, who seemed to be very pointedly not looking at him. All attention was given to Marius. Marius, though visibly nervous, seemed content to listen to Robert talk about his work in the pottery, or answer innocuous questions about what he studied in college. Just as politely – and surprisingly eloquently – Marius attempted to compliment Jean’s cooking, and thank him extensively for the hospitality. Tight-lipped, Jean would accept the pleasantries with a curt nod. It was only in one grim instance that Jean spoke more than a few words.



“We’ve been so happy to have Cosette join our group. She’s incredibly smart and insightful on many issues, no doubt a result of your upbringing,” Marius said, setting down his fork and taking a gentle sip of wine. 



“Sorry, group?” Jean asked before Robert could respond with something more courteous. 



“The ABC society, sir. We advocate for the rights of the people of France, the downtrodden.” Marius explained, unaware that Cosette was looking at him wide-eyed. 



“The rights of the downtrodden.” Jean echoed blankly. 



Marius blushed slightly, embarrassed, and seemed to retreat his enthusiasm slightly.



“Ah, well, we are mostly oriented toward the rights of gays and lesbians, sir.”



When met with silence, Marius bravely continued. “You see, being your daughter, Cosette has brought us some new perspectives.” 






Jean looked at Cosette, who looked at her plate. 



“There are nascent associations for homosexual parents, and while the Pride march is a good place to march alongside them, we have events all year round. Next week we’ve organised a sit-in against medical discrimination against gays and transexuals, you see. Cosette has kindly offered to–”



Jean coughed out of shock. 



“Cosette will be going to no such event.” He provided, and the silence turned thick with tension. 



“It is noble for you and your... friends, to stand up for what you believe in, but Cosette is barely out of high school.” He tried to sound apologetic, ignoring the ringing in his ears. He glanced at his daughter, and watched the grip on her fork tighten. 



Marius blanched. 



“Oh. Of course, sir. That is none of my business, of course, I am merely saying that–” 



“Would you like some more bake?” Robert offered. 



Not awaiting response, Robert piled a new piece of bake on Marius’ plate and, by virtue of interruption and Robert’s skillful manouvering, the conversation died down into another, far safer one about vegetarianism. Cosette spend the rest of the dinner shooting daggers straight into Jean’s poor heart. 



The worst came when Marius left. Jean looked away as Cosette said goodbye, trying to block out the soft whispering between them at the door. Before leaving, Marius leant back into the room. 



“It was nice to meet you, Mr Fauchelevant, sir.” 



Jean tried to smile through the nausea.



“You too, Marius.” 



Marius nodded once. 



“Call me when you get home.” Cosette warned before the door closed. 



Mere seconds seemed endless and heavy before Jean spoke. “Cosette, I–” 



“Don’t. Don’t you dare fucking apologise.” She was raising her voice in a way she had rarely done before. Jean struggled to stop himself from admonishing her for swearing.



“But you must understand, Cosette, I’m an old man, and it truly did not occur to me that–”



“

What 

am I supposed to understand, Dad?” 



“That…” Jean did not know what he was trying to say. 

One could be a girl and be called a man? That his daughter might be, herself, gay? What could this mean for Cosette’s life? 

His mind reeled with doubt. 



“Maybe it’s time you start understanding that things are different for me than they are for you!” Cosette’s voice was raised, and angry tears were tracing her cheeks.






Shame was crashing through his confusion and flooding Jean. He stood up to reach for Cosette, words glued to his throat and refusing to come out. Cosette moved out of the way. Jean’s heart promptly cracked in two. 



“I’m just trying to protect you, Cosette.” He tried, weakly.



“Protect me from what? From meeting people? From having a basic political understanding of the world? Dad, it’s 1981. Wake the hell up.” She let that last sentence linger in the air for a moment, but when Jean said nothing she continued, furiously. 



“You’ve lived with your boyfriend in an apartment full of ceramic dicks for fifteen fucking years, eight of which you closed me in a convent school, and for what reason? ‘Cause you couldn’t handle having me around after Mom died? To protect me? Well, bravo. You succeeded. I know absolutely fuck all about the world. And Marius?” She pointed at the door as if Marius was still there, “he is showing it to me.” 



At the mention of Cosette’s Mom, Valjean’s heart briefly stopped in his chest. Cosette must have noticed the change, because what she said next was not shouted. 



“You can be content with crumbs. I’m not. I’m fighting for a better world, and I’m going to that fucking protest with my 

boy

friend.”



And then, she walked out. Jean heard the faint click of the lock on Cosette’s room. He stared blankly at the spot where she had been standing, between the front door and the living room couch. 



Robert came out of the kitchen like a city fox from cover, tentative. He looked at Jean. 



“Oh, darling.” He said pityingly, having assessed Jean’s despair, and they embraced, Robert cradling Jean’s head with both his hands. 


 

 


After that night, Jean fell sick. His temperature rose in the night and he woke up nauseous, dazed and almost too weak to go to the bathroom. Upon not finding breakfast on the table, Cosette had brought tea to his room, but left soon after without telling him where she was going. Though Robert had to work, he would run up to their apartment every few hours to check on him, and made sure to repeat for the millionth time that if Jean needed anything he would just have to ring down to the pottery. Jean nodded weakly, also for the millionth time, and did not call the number whenever he needed anything. He was going to have to survive by himself. 



In this state, his delirious thoughts wandered to Fantine, and his mind kept helpfully replaying what Cosette had told him – 

you couldn’t handle having me around after Mom died. 

It was true, he supposed, a truth unavoidable now that it had been spoken. He had remembered making the choice of sending Cosette to the nuns out of guilt. Guilt of not being her mother, guilt of subjecting her to a life of secrecy, guilt of not being the family she deserved. Fear that he could not do it himself, even with Robert there. So he had chosen the easier route, and it too took him down the road of hurt and pain. He could never win against his life, that much seemed to be true. He may as well let himself die slowly into his bed. 



Of course, these musings lasted no more than a week. This too was the easy choice, and not one Cosette deserved. Cowardly though he was, he was going to have to face his mistakes – not all of them, of course – and help Cosette live the life he had not had. He was going to help her. He was going to make the world better for her.


 

 

you know how jean is both mother and father to cosette yes that means he has double the parental anxiety

shit goes down in the last chapter, coming soon :)