Title: Oh? Oh.
Work ID: 37904557
Author: Javerts_high_heeled_boots
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fluff, Domestic Fluff, Glasses, Romani Javert, Height Differences, Javert’s a little shit, Valjean hates his glasses, Headcanon, Banter, Javert is absolutely smitten over his husband
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

“What are these?”

Valjean looked away from the TV. In the doorway stood Javert, holding a small case. It took a moment for Jean to register what the box was, he groaned.

“Where’d you find those?”

“Your drawer,” responded Javert.

“Why were you in my drawer?”

“I was bored”- he made his way over to the couch, ploping down next to his husband and putting his head in his lap, looking at Jean’s face - “I think you forget how much attention I need.”

“You’re very nosy, you know,” teased Valjean, snatching the case from Javert’s hands.

“I’m aware.”

“And you don’t plan on working on that?”

“Nope.”

The older of the two smiled, a soft chuckle escaping his lips. He traced a finger over the bridge of his husband’s nose, causing him to smile back.

“You’re very handsome.”

“You still haven’t answered my question, Jean.”

“You still haven’t apologized for going through my drawer.”

“YOU still haven’t apologized for not giving me attention.”

“God, you’re impossible.”

“You married me.”

Valjean looked over at the box, mouth twisting bitterly. He was certain he’d got rid of those for good. Perhaps they were a spare he forgot about.

“Well?”

“Emile, do you seriously not know what these are?”

“No, Jean- I know what they are obviously; I just don’t know why you have them. I thought you only wore contacts. You’ve never worn your glasses around me.”

“Surely I have. I’ve had them since I was 15.”

The Inspector smirked, sure that this was some sort of joke. Upon realizing it wasn’t, he sat up.

“Are you serious?”

“Yes, Em. You’ve never noticed?”

“You never wear them!”

“I do,” protested Valjean, attempting to think of the last time he actually did.

Oh.

When he was 18.

“…You’ve never seen a photo of me with them on?”

“No.”

“Are you serious?”

“Yes! I’ve never seen you with glasses on!”

The longer he thought, Valjean realized that Javert was in fact correct. He had never worn his glasses in any of his school photos, not in any of his ID photos, not even in prison. It had always been contacts. His husband had quite literally never seen him with his glasses on.

…Good.

“Well,” started Jean, pushing the case away, “you’re not missing much. I haven’t worn them since high school. I guess this is just a spare pair I had laying around.”

“I wanna see.”

“What?”

“I wanna see you with your glasses on,” repeated Javert cooly, moving closer to Valjean.

“Why?”

“Whatdya mean ‘why’? I’ve never seen them on you!”

“Yeah, and as I said: you’re not missing much.”

“Please,” pouted Javert, leaning his chin against Jean’s shoulder.

“No.”

“Why?”

“Why do you care so much? It’s just glasses.”

“Pleeeease?”

“You are THEE most stubborn person I know.”

Valjean stood up, making his way toward the kitchen. It was getting late, he should probably figure out what was for dinner.

“You hungry, hun?”

No response.

“Hun?”

Javert was once again holding the glasses case, an evil smirk on his face. Valjean sighed.

“You don’t quit, do you?”

“Try them on.”

“No.”

“Why?”

“What do you want to eat?”

“Put the glasses on.”

“If you don’t answer I’m just gonna make something random.”

“Please?”

Oh god, he had those big watery eyes pointed right at Valjean. He hopped off the couch, making his way over to Jean before holding out the case. Valjean thought for a moment. He picked up the case. Javert smiled.

He opened a cabinet and put the glasses on the highest shelf.

“Oh, come on,” yelled Javert, drowned out by Valjean’s laughter, “that’s unfair!”

“What do you want to eat, love,” asked Jean again, humor still in his voice.

“If you put your glasses on, I’ll tell you.”

“Why do you want to see them so bad?”

“I dunno,” shrugged the shorter man, twirling a stray strand of hair between two fingers. “Why do you not want to wear them.”

“I’ve always hated them,” admitted Jean, leaning against the counter. “When I first got them, the guy gave me the wrong size. They were bigger than my head. My mom called to complain, but the store was closed for the rest of the weekend. I had to wear these giant, goggle things for two days.”

It took everything for Javert not to smirk. Valjean noticed this.

“You can laugh. It was pretty funny.”

He shook his head, a smile growing anyways. The mental image of a young Valjean walking around wearing glasses that were far to big for him was as adorable as it was hilarious.

“What happened after that?”

“After that,” continued Jean, “I got a pair that actually fit. I looked in the mirror the store had for the first time and- god, I looked like such a nerd.”

Both men were now giggling.

“And after that?”

“After that…after that, I kid you not, I threw a tantrum. I was 15 years old, and I was throwing a tantrum over a pair of glasses. God, I must’ve looked so stupid-“

Giggling turned to laughter, and laughter turned into wheezing. Eventually, both men were near tears, clutching their stomachs and using each other as balance.

“Oh my god,” huffed Jean, wiping a tear from his cheek, “I completely forgot about that until now.”

Javert continued to laugh, eyes squeezed shut and teeth bared. His laugh wasn’t necessary pretty, but it made Valjean’s heart melt. The way he smiled, the way his eyes crinkled, the way his nose scrunched…

“…You’re adorable.”

“Oh, would you stop changing the subject?”

“Not changing the subject, just stating a fact.”

“Whatever.”

“It’s true.”

Javert shook his head, looking up at his husband. Valjean looked down at him. After a moment of silence, he spoke again.

“So, are you gonna put them on?”

“You still wanna see?”

Javert nodded. With a sigh, Valjean opened the cabinet and plucked the case from the shelf. He stared down at the box, sighed once more, and opened it. Javert leaned forward, biting his bottom lip in anticipation. Valjean looked down at him again.

“If I put these on, you’ll tell me what you want for dinner?”

“Mhm.”

“And then we’ll drop the topic?”“I promise.”“I know you’re crossing your fingers behind your back.”“How dare you accuse me,” gasped Javert, mock offense spreading across his face. Valjean smirked.“Alright.”Javert watched as he opened the box, examining the glasses. After a moment, Jean took them out, cleaned them on his shirt, and put them on. He looked at Javert.…Oh?Oh.A dark blush crept onto Javert’s face. He looked at the man before him. The glasses framed his face perfectly, black frames bringing out the honey brown irises of Jean’s eyes. They rested on the curve of his nose, just above his scar.“Well?”“Hm.”Daaaaamn.“Watcha thinking?”“They- you look the same.”“Really?”It technically wasn’t a lie; for the most part, Valjean looked the same. However, there was no denying that something about the new look made Javert’s heart race. He looked so…cute.“Can…can you see?”“Well, I still have my contacts in, so…”“Yeah…”Valjean squinted, smirk growing wider.“What?”“Huh?”“You’re staring.”“I know.”“How come?”“Y-you just l-look different.”“I thought you said I looked the same?”The Inspector was to flustered to respond. He just nodded, continuing to stare. Valjean took this time to place a finger under Javert’s chin, gently tilting his head up. He grinned down at him, watching how he stammered for a response. Before he could get one, Valjean bent down and kissed him softly, allowing the glasses to slip down slightly. Javert smiled into the kiss, snaking his arms around Jean’s neck. It was soft and peaceful.Upon breaking apart, Valjean spoke again.“Well?”“…You should wear those…more often.”“I’ll consider it.”“Mhm…”“So…what do you want for dinner?”Javert shook his head, still blushing wildly. He looked up at his smirking husband. Damn him.“You can pick.”