Title: Once upon a time. (A Rewrite)
Work ID: 43101969
Author: xEternalFlame
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Prince Charming | David Nolan/Snow White | Mary Margaret Blanchard, Hansel | Jack | Nick Branson/Henry Mills, Belle/Red Riding Hood | Ruby, Wishverse Captain Hook | Detective Rogers/Rumplestiltskin | Mr. Gold, Captain Hook | Killian Jones/Milah, Peter Pan | Malcolm/Original Female Character(s), Victor Frankenstein | Dr. Whale/Mad Hatter | Jefferson, Huntsman | Sheriff Graham/Original Female Character(s), Baelfire | Neal Cassidy/Emma Swan, Evil Queen | Regina Mills/Maleficent, Marian/Robin Hood (Once Upon a Time), Anna/Kristoff (Once Upon a Time), Pinocchio | August Booth/Original Male Character(s), Glinda/Wicked Witch of the West | Zelena, Elsa/Liam Jones (Once Upon a Time), Lord Macintosh/Merida (Once Upon a Time), Fa Mulan | Hua Mulan/Li Shang (Disney), Alice/Knave of Hearts | Will Scarlet, Aladdin/Jasmine (Once Upon a Time), Alice Jones | Tilly/Robin | Margot, Abigail | Kathryn Nolan/Frederick | Jim, Naveen | Drew/Tiana | Sabine (Once Upon a Time), Ursula the Sea Witch/Cruella de Vil (Once Upon a Time), Raoul de Chagny/Erik | Phantom of the Opera, Christine Daaé/Meg Giry, Esmeralda/Phoebus (Disney), Madellaine/Quasimodo (Disney), Charlotte La Bouff/Original Male Character(s), Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier, Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Established Raoul De Chagny and Erik Destler, Male Esmeralda (Disney), Porn with Feelings, Flashbacks
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 8/?

Every single day that little brat paraded around the kingdom with her love. 

Regina wanted to destroy their happiness. She would. Even if it was the last thing she would ever do. Snow had stolen everything from her! Everything!

Charming and Snow were rubbing it in her face. Rubbing it in her face that she no longer had Daniel. That she was going to suffer going through life without him for years and years now. If it wasn't for her need for revenge she would've joined him herself. 

Although she had to admit being finally rid of her mother completely made life so much easier. Being Queen of the Enchanted Forest made her feel.. special in a way. Even if that stupid girl had added 'Evil' to her name. She wasn't the evil one! She had suffered far too much. Still.. she felt more at peace without her mother at her side. 

Taking her lessons from Rumpelstiltskin made everything so much clearer. Snow would have to do what Snow does best, Snow would have to fall. She would make her suffer for everything she had caused and nothing would stand in her way. Nothing and no one. Daniel never deserved what had happened to him. She had never deserved to see her fiancé’s heart crushed right in front of her because Snow couldn't keep her stupid little mouth shut!

''You seem tense dearie.'' 

She turned her head around from her dressing table and noticed the dark one sitting on her bed in a rather amused fashion. Of course. He was always mocking her somehow. 

Regina frowned and folded her arms, of course she was tense! She was always tense now thanks to Snow White! Just knowing that little brat was out there and alive in the world plotting against her to take back the kingdom made her tense! There had to be something she could do. 

''What do you want?''

She snapped at him in a rather unamused fashion. Regina was not in the mood for any form of games

‘’Relax dearie, I only came to bring you the last of your mother’s things from my palace.’’

Regina took the box he offered after he’d pulled it out of thin air with a wave of his hand and some smoke. Granted she didn’t actually want her mother’s things, she felt guilty enough as it was after what she had done to her. Despite Cora’s treatment of her she had always tried to love the other woman, even though it was often very difficult to do so. 

As the dark one vanished from her side Regina felt relief rolled through her body. She knew he needed her for the plans he had in the future, he’d made that quite clear and yet he still scared her a little bit now and again. How could someone not fear the dark one? How could someone not fear him after everything that he had done and everything he was still doing and everything he was planning to do?

She opened the box and after rummaging through some things she found quite boring, potions, spell books, the occasional bit of jewelry, she finally came to a white mask that appeared to be only for half the face.

Frowning for a moment she turned it around and noticed one word. Erik.

Erik?

Her eyes narrowed as she thought about that name, daily for weeks, months. Then finally Regina came up with the idea to find him and make him explain why his name was among her mother's things. 

What was so special about him? Why had his mother kept something of his in her things and hadn't anything belonging to her?! What was so special about someone she had never met?! What was so special about him?! What did he have that she did not?! 

She was even on edge during her latest lesson with The Dark One, well more on edge. People would have to be extremely foolish to not be on edge around him. The Dark One barely counted as a man anymore. He wasn't a man, more of a beast, a monster who deserved nothing and yet she knew she needed him. Perhaps he could tell what she was thinking as there were a few times he seemed amused by her reactions.

''WHAT?!''

The so-called Evil Queen finally snapped when she realized Rumple was still watching her. He was really getting on her nerves. She deeply disliked being watched as though she were a show. 

''A little birdie told me you're looking for.. Erik.?'' 

That sinister grin was really getting at her and yet she knew she could not deny something that was so plainly visible on her face. 

Why on earth would her mother keep something so basic as a half face mask? Why would anyone keep something like that? It was plain and ordinary. There was nothing special about it whatsoever. Still, Regina did not say any of this to him and just simply nodded, although she could virtually feel steam leaving her ears. 

''I can help you with that dearie.''

Regina raised one very perfect eyebrow. She wasn't sure why on earth Rumple would be offering to help her with this desire and yet she wasn't going to turn it down.

She knew she could not. She knew he was her best chance of finding out whoever this man was and why he had seemingly meant so much to her mother who had obviously never cared about her in her entire life. She didn't understand why Cora would have a sentimental item when she had told her time and time again that love was weakness. 

''What do you want in return?'' 

She knew the twisted little imp never did anything unless there was something in it for him. It was one of the reasons that made him so sickening. 

Yet she knew she wouldn't be able to get this particular name out of her mind. She was going to obsess and obsess over this until she had found him. Until she knew the truth about who he was and why he had meant so much to her mother seemingly. 

''Oh.. well.. in the future.. you'll see this situation of yours will greatly benefit me as well.'' 

Of course. She could hardly be surprised by the fact that The Dark One had always been able to see the future and would always be able to. 

''Simply pour this on the mask and you will find your heart's desire dearie. Provided it is what you truly wish.''

Regina frowned as she took the potion that had appeared in his hand, it seemed as though he had planned all of this out down to the letter. Don't complain. Don't complain. 

He then vanished on the spot into a puff of smoke and Regina headed back to her carriage, sliding inside and going back to her palace. Her palace. Not Snow White's palace. This incredible building would never belong to Snow White. She had married to get this place. She had married someone she had never and would never love. She wasn't letting it go without a fight now. 

Soon enough her palace was in sight, the urge to leave the carriage was picking at her, again and again. So much so she could stand it no longer and used a spell, taking her from the comfortable seat and into her palace. One completely sinister smile went over her visage as she ran to her dressing table, taking out the mask and pouring the potion The Dark One had given her over it. 

The second it began to glow she grabbed hold of it and vanished into thin air. Hmm. Well thankfully he was in this realm. Spell wouldn't have worked otherwise. She wondered how many times The Dark One had used this spell trying to find his son and had been unsuccessful. Oh yes. She knew about that. Having found out years ago after asking what was so special about the curse. Granted she didn't understand why anyone would want to have sex with a many who looked like he had scales but right now she wasn't even going to think about that particular fact. 

Suddenly she found herself outside an Opera House. One confused expression went over The Evil Queen's visage but she had no time to dwell on that fact and made her way inside, her magic opening the doors as she went. Palais Garnier Opera House. She had heard of this place a few times in the past and had often begged her mother to take her there but Cora had always refused to, something about it made her skin crawl. Yet there seemed to be something more under the skin with regards to it when it came to her mother's opinion on it. 

Soon enough she found herself in the main auditorium, the main theatre space. Her lips curled up into yet another one of her famous sinister smiles when her line of sight spotted someone on the stage. Either this person would be able to tell her where this mysterious Erik actually was or this one would be a victim to add to her endless collection of hearts. Yet when the man turned his head around she noticed with a stabbing pain in her heart that he was wearing an almost identical mask, a half mask. Something to cover his face. 

To make matters worse, he had exactly the same eyes as her mother. Which could only mean one thing and one thing alone.

No. 

She could not have a brother! Surely her mother would've said something, said anything to her. Yet the fact was there as clear as the day is long. 

He even looked like her! Dark hair. Those eyes that haunted her nightmares. There was also something about the visible part of the facial structure. She felt annoyed. She felt so jealous that her mother had kept something of his and nothing of hers. Nothing of hers had been in that box. Nothing!

Regina narrowed her eyes and felt such anger move through her body, she moved towards him and finally he noticed her, fully. She didn't give him any time at all to react as she used magic, pinning him to the wall. Not defending himself. Not appearing to have magic. Surely she had been wrong about her suspicion. Perhaps he was not truly her mother's son. Perhaps he was not truly her brother. 

''....Hmmm, you're pathetic.''

She spoke, a soft and sinister laugh leaving her lips. There was nothing about her mother's manner within him, nothing that seemed strong. 

Then that mask caught her eye once more, she reached up and instantly dragged it from his face. What she saw made her want to vomit. Such horror. Such ugliness. She felt completely and utterly disgusted by seeing something like this. Wounds. She could even see part of his skull, part of his brain.

Regina gasped and dropped him to the floor, Erik groaned and tried to grab his mask but Regina stepped on his hand with a narrowed glare. She wanted answers, she wanted and deserved answers. If he wasn't going to provide them for her she would kill him and anyone else he cared about that resided here. Why on earth had her mother kept a mask belonging to a.. thing? 

''Why was this.. in with my mother's things?!'' 

She snapped, holding up the mask she had brought with her with an annoyed expression on her visage. She folded her arms, debating stepping on him once more but allowed him to slide up when he began to speak. Just onto his knees, not his feet. 

''The.. only person.. who ever had.. those masks.. was my mother.. Cora.'' 

She was right. She had been right in her idea. Cora.. was his mother as well. How on earth did she never know? Why on earth was she never told?!

Regina moved around him, her long dark dress floating dangerously close as she moved. A rather sinister expression going over her visage again. What had happened to his face? No one could be born so hideous. She debated using some magic to get rid of his wounds so she wouldn't have to look at his hideous face anymore and yet she had not come for that. 

She wanted answers. She raised one perfect eyebrow as she studied his form, silently wondering how on earth he had gained this face. Magic? Torture? She played with a loose curl of her hair before tucking it back into her style in an elegant fashion. She leaned down, grabbing him by the suit blazer and pulled him up to his feet. She wasn't afraid of him and refused to be so. 

''...What happened to you? Why did she give you up?! Why did she never tell me about you?!'' 

Erik felt weak right now and his head was spinning so much that he could barely register anything she was saying. No words came out of his lips. He just reached up and gestured to his face. However it was clear from the look on Regina's face that she did not believe him.

She reached down, moved her hand into his chest and pulled out his heart, still beating, most of it was pure red and there were patches, patches here and there, where there were dark marks. Just like they were on hers. Only hers had more of them. He had been evil as well from time to time. Yet he'd become better. Still, she wasn't even going to think about that. She wasn't going to even think about him becoming a better person. She didn't care that this thing was her brother. 

Screams of agony left Erik's lips as she began to squeeze his heart. Only two seconds and then BAM! Regina hit the ground and fell unconscious. Raoul stood there with a frying pan in his left hand, having knocked her out. He reached down and picked up his husband's heart from her motionless fingertips and gave it a soft kiss before putting it back into his husband's chest. Erik seemed so weak right now. Raoul put the pan down and gently scooped his husband up, there were small movements coming from him so he was extremely worried but not terrified that he could be dead. 

He began helping his husband back down to their lair when Regina began to stir, soon enough within a few seconds she was on her feet once more, fireballs in both hands, getting ready to kill the both of them. Erik's eyes turned purple and with the last little bit of strength he had shot up some white light at the chandelier above her. Sending it straight down, Regina narrowly avoided it and vanished, heading straight home. She knew she would never win against light magic and given what she had found out, she had the answer to what she had been seeking. They would pay for how they had treated her and she would make them suffer greatly. Yet right now Snow and Charming were her main priority. 

Erik felt weaker and weaker as he allowed his husband to half carry, half drag him down to the lair. He didn’t want the kids to see him like this but there was barely any alternative. Soon enough they came face to face with them and helped Raoul put him gently to bed. 

‘’I’ll bring you some food darling.’’ 

Raoul spoke after tucking his husband in and pressing a gentle kiss against his forehead. Things hadn’t always been like this between them.

One of their daughters clambered in next to Erik while Raoul went to prepare them all food. Erik had never had his mask off in front of any of them for fear they would be scared at the sight of his face but she wasn’t scared of him, she had a scar, much smaller and barely visible but he still found her beautiful so she was doing the same thing for him. 

‘’You’re still beautiful to me dad.’’ 

Annalise spoke as she slid her arms around Erik’s waist and leaned her head on his shoulder. She found the entire world beautiful. She always would. 

There was such beauty in nature and animals and just the world was made up of so many beautiful things, perhaps even in evil people there was beauty as well. Although she hated thinking that anyone was evil, truly evil. Surely there was good in everyone. 

Even if they could not see it themselves. 

Soon enough Raoul returned and after telling their daughter to join the other children at the breakfast table he curled up in bed with his husband and fed him, occasionally taking a bite of food as well. 

‘’Who was she darling?’’

Erik momentarily shook his head, truthfully he hadn’t known he had a sister. He figured he could’ve had siblings but he had never imagined he would see any. He had never believed one of them would come to find him. 

‘’..My sister. I don’t know her name.. I don’t know much about my mother.. only that her name was Cora.’’ 

‘’Cora?’’

Raoul frowned for a moment, narrowing his eyes. That name was familiar to him. Back when he had lived with his biological family he had known a family. Cora, Henry, Regina. Regina had been such a wonderful girl. Henry had been a doormat..and Cora had been a terrifying woman. Things must’ve changed. Or this must be a completely different Cora.. who had a daughter with the same name. 

Yet the facts were there. Still he endeavored to ignore that and slid his arms around his husband to cuddle him close. The thought of losing Erik was an agonizing feeling and they would have to discuss this more when he was feeling well enough to do so. He’d never had his heart ripped out but it had looked extremely painful.

‘’Can I ask you something darling?’’

‘’Anything.’’

‘’Were..you ever going to truly kill me? Back when we hated one another?’’

He asked this due to the fact The Phantom had never tried to rip his heart out. Surely that was the simplest way to go about it. 

‘’Truly? No.’’ 

Erik spoke in a weak fashion as he snuggled closer to his husband. He shook his head slowly. 

‘’I only wished to threaten you enough to get you away from the Opera House..you were far too beautiful to kill..you will always be the most gorgeous man in existence and I love you.’’

He mumbled before finally falling unconscious.

‘’I love you too Erik.’’ 

Raoul responded as he kissed his head once more. He would never let anyone hurt him, any of them.

Of course Raoul had not always felt this way about his husband. 

For quite a while he had despised him, they had been equals completely and he had never been afraid of him, yet he had hated him. 

Then he'd stayed with him to protect Christine and after a while began to see a different side to the Phantom. To see the man beneath the beast. To see the good in the evil. To see the side of kindness and to see what the world had tried to take away from him. 

They had become friends over time and had grown closer, so close that there was a point he knew they were going to become a couple and yet he hadn't truly known just how much he loved Erik. Right up until one night. One night when he had known that he could never love anyone else in the way he loved him. Right up until one night when everything had changed. 

It had been midnight. Raoul had been tossing and turning all night and no matter how hard he tried he could not get to sleep. For weeks now he had been sharing the same bed as the Phantom. Just being able to roll over and know that Erik was there made him feel so much better about everything. Yet when he turned over this time, hoping to be able to see the older man he found the other side of the bed completely empty aside from a letter on one of the pillows. Damn it. After opening it he found that Erik had gone for a walk to get inspiration for the next Opera. 

He blinked and narrowed his eyes. Even though he knew first hand that Erik could defend or rather attack very well he still felt worried for him. Sliding up from the bed he quickly pulled on a white shirt with pants and darted out of the Opera House. Despite knowing how Erik's heart truly was now he also knew that many others would not spend time long enough around him to find out how he was inside before attacking him. He wished the world wasn't so judgemental and yet so many would never change. So many could never change because they were just too unwilling to do so. Pushing those thoughts from his mind he made his way out into the night, Erik had to be the priority right now. 

Erik himself was just moving through the kingdom. After finding a stitch in his side he stopped for a moment, just resting outside the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. He glanced up, just admiring the structure before noticing something or rather someone moving up where the bells were. He blinked for a second and tried to focus his eyes and yet it was then he heard a crying sound nearby. He turned his head down in a rapid fashion and noticed a man drop a crying bundle into a well. No. Someone could not be doing this. Who would be this inhumane? He debated going and murdering that man in cold blood and yet he knew he had to get the bundle out of the well. He watched the stranger vanish after doing this horrific act and fought against his murderous impulse. 

The air was so cold and he could hear the child screaming so loudly, yet there was no one else around from what he could see. He had to do this. Otherwise the child would die. He tugged at the well rope, pulling it quickly but in a safe manner, the rope burned his hands but he ignored it and continued. Occasional groans of pain left his lips now and again and then finally the bucket was up. He scooped the child out and had a glance at the baby to make sure the little one was alright. Such a pretty face. From the looks of things the child had been born as a female. He could tell from the long eyelashes and from the facial structure. After tucking her gently into his coat to keep her warm he began walking through the kingdom once more, he knew where he had to take her. Not to an orphanage. There was a little cottage nearby, he knew the couple that lived there and they had wanted a daughter for so long. 

''Erik!'' 

The Phantom turned his head and it was with a smile that he noticed the other man. Raoul had seen the whole thing and he couldn't stop himself from cupping the older man's cheeks, gently stroking before giving him a soft and gentle kiss. 

Erik leaned into the kiss for a couple of seconds until it ended. Whenever they kissed he swore his heart tried to jump out of his chest. It had never felt like this with Christine, even when she had kissed him to save Raoul's life. It had taken him a while but he'd realized that everything he had believed he felt for her wasn't real, only an obsession that had gone too far. 

Yet what he felt for Raoul was so real, so perfect. Raoul was everything he had ever needed. Someone who could tell him when he was going too far. Someone who saw the good in him. Someone who made him feel so alive inside and out. He loved him. He loved him more than anything in the whole world and yet he had never said it to him. Maybe that time would come but right now the child had to be the main priority.

The two made their way through Paris, Erik carrying the child in one hand and holding Raoul's hand with his free one, occasionally playing with his fingers. Soon enough they were outside the little cottage. After letting go of Raoul's. hand Erik moved to the door and gently knocked. One young and beautiful woman came to the door. One of the previous dancers at the Opera House. Erik spoke a few words to her and handed over the baby. Granted he had always hoped that maybe someday he could be a father. Yet right now he knew he had a long way to go still. 

''Wait Erik!''

The beautiful woman spoke, Giselle was her name. Maurice her husband. Lovely people, Maurice was an inventor. Not a rich one but a talented one indeed. 

Erik turned his head and offered her a curious but gentle smile.

''What's her name?''

Erik instantly thought of Raoul, a small smile going over his lips once more as he thought of all the words that described him and finally came to the one. Beautiful. 

''Belle.''

He then moved away to rejoin Raoul and the two of them moved into the night. The two held hands as they moved through the streets before going back to the Opera House. 

Once back in the lair the two of them moved to the bed, Raoul moved to give him a kiss and began fiddling with Erik's shirt. He loved what Erik had done that night. He appreciated the fact that Erik had become a much better person and had done the right thing for a child. 

''...Would you like to?..'' 

It took Erik a few moments to work out what Raoul was asking of him. Then he smiled and nodded. Raoul reached up, gently shifting the mask from the older man's face.

Once the wounds were visible he began pressing soft kisses here and there. Erik moaned softly and slid his own shirt off over his own head. Raoul momentarily gazed at him, a small but kind smile going over his lips. He found himself thinking.. realizing that he was really in love with Erik. 

Erik began undoing Raoul's shirt and soon enough they were both naked. Erik had to admit, Raoul truly was the most beautiful man in the whole universe. Yet this time he did not feel jealous. This time he felt an incredible feeling of complete and utter adoration. Fingers moved up and down and over that perfect skin. There was not one flaw in this gorgeous man, inside or out. 

Oh.. when Raoul touched him, he felt so alive. Feeling his hands all over him was making him feel whole for the first time in his entire existence. It felt as though their souls were connecting for the first time in their entire lives. He felt as though Raoul was a part of him. He felt his touch over his nipples, over his muscles and abs. Oh he feels so proud of his body from the way Raoul is talking about him and touching him. His words make him feel so beautiful. No one has ever made him feel beautiful. 

Raoul laid down upon the red silk sheets and pulled Erik down on top of him. Erik moaned softly as he captured the younger man's mouth once more, running his tongue over his lips, gently putting pressure to ask for access. Raoul opened his mouth up and the two explored each other's mouths, occasional groans leaving their lips from time to time, even though they were quite muffled. 

''I want you..'' 

Raoul muttered, reaching down to gently rub Erik's length. Erik groaned and leaned into his touch, his eyes fluttered shut as he nodded. 

He had never felt this good in his entire life. No one had ever made him feel this good. He moved his fingers down, keeping his eyes on Raoul's face to make sure he was alright with this and after getting a nod he gently opened the younger man up with his fingers. 

The second he heard a groan of pain he began to remove his fingers but Raoul moved his hand down to stop him and urge him to continue.

''It's a good pain, it's okay Erik. I'm alright.''

Erik nodded and moved up to give him a passionate kiss before getting back to doing what he was previously doing. Once he was sure Raoul was wide enough for him to take his length he glanced up into his gorgeous eyes and got a nod in response along with a smile. 

Moans filled the lair as he slid his length within the younger man. After Raoul spoke, telling him it was alright to move Erik began to thrust in and out of him. Groans began getting louder as he adjusted the angle at the same time. Going deeper within the man he loved. 

Seeing Raoul like this, moaning and gripping the sheets was such a beautiful sight. Erik moved a little bit faster and waves of pleasure ran through his body. He moved his hand up, sliding his hand up and down the younger man's length in time with his thrusts. 

''Erik!'' 

Raoul whimpered, his hips shaking quite a bit, he reached down, gently grabbing his face and captured the Phantom's mouth in a deep kiss as they continued moving together, becoming one for the first time. 

They hit their releases at exactly the same time, crying out each other's name in pleasure. Raoul moved his arms around Erik's body and pulled him down into a cuddle. Erik slid his arms around him and gently rested his head on his shoulder, pressing a few kisses to his beautiful soft skin. 

Raoul pressed a few soft kisses to The Phantom's head. 

''You're so beautiful.'' 

For once Erik didn't seem confused or didn't even try to deny his words. He simply replied with the honest truth about the matter itself.

''You're the only one who has ever made me feel so.'' 

''I'm really happy to hear that Erik, you deserve to feel like that.'' 

Once he had believed Erik to be ugly and now when he looked at him he realized the true ugliness had been within the other's soul. Now he was beautiful because his soul was beautiful. Soon enough he felt Erik gradually falling asleep on him, it had been a long night so he was hardly surprised by that fact. 

Despite knowing the older man could not hear him he allowed three words to leave his mouth. 

''I love you.''

Music played through the town's square. 

Captain Phoebus had returned from the war at the request of Monseigneur Claude Frollo, the Archdeacon of Notre Dame. Becoming the new Captain Of The Guard was a great opportunity for him. 

As he moved along the roads, his trusty horse Achilles beside him he occasionally stopped here and there to listen to the beautiful music. It was then he arrived in the square. His eyes instantly widened as he noticed an extremely beautiful man with dark hair just dancing along to the beat, a tambourine tapping away and eyes like the sea on a warm summer's day. 

That.. man, he was just so gorgeous. The way he moved. The way he spun around. His hair is so long and with some purple ribbon in it. It looked like it would feel like silk to the touch. One necklace glittered from around his neck, bangles rested on his wrists. From getting closer he could sense the strong scent of lavender and some fragrant oils, so perfect. So perfect. Shirt open to reveal the perfect torso. 

''Wow..'' 

The Gypsy did a perfectly executed flip and landed it in an elegant way before blowing him a kiss, completely stunning the Captain. He had not been expecting that in the least but it had made him feel so incredibly warm inside, butterflies ran up and down his body. 

Those eyes were going to be in each and every single one of his dreams, he knew that now. He felt that now. This man was far too beautiful to be ordinary. Something told him that this Gypsy could be the most beautiful man he had ever seen and yet something also plagued his thoughts that there was something so much more than that. Beauty was one thing but what was on the inside was really what mattered.

One goat danced alongside the Gypsy. Moving together as if they were a long standing duo. They seemed to have been lifelong friends. Family even. Yet his mind was more focused on the man rather than anything else. Children began to dance around. Watching the Gypsy as though they were a beautiful angel. The way he moved his hands and legs, the way he sparkled for he seemed to have glitter on his torso. He was so beautiful, so gorgeous and so stunning. He wanted to speak to him and yet had no idea what to do. 

Seeing him so at ease was a beautiful sight. 

He knew that so many Gypsies were afraid of law enforcement because of how they had been treated in the past and yet just watching him seemed to make the young man at ease. 

Moving closer he noticed something on the ground, a bit of the young man's belongings, covered with some bronze coins. Taking out his pouch he tipped the golden coins onto the item. This item was a beautiful scarf completely covered with stars and purple in color. Purple with gold stars. 

No doubt this was the most beautiful man in the entire kingdom. Another air kiss came in his direction and he raised a hand, pretending to catch it, this instantly sent deep redness over the Gypsy’s face. Seeing such a beautiful shade on the other man made his heart soar. Knowing he had caused it made his heart pound louder and louder in his chest. Oh he wished he could see that every day. 

As the dance ended he moved over to the younger man and offered him a smile. Compliments were going through his mind and yet he had no idea how to begin speaking to him. For he believed to speak to him would be as though he were speaking to a Prince. He wasn't even sure words would come out in a regular way. Perhaps he would stutter. Perhaps he would speak the words in a different order. Yet he had to. He just had to find out what his name was and compliment him, at least once during his lifetime. 

Eyes drifted down to the goat who seemed to be watching him in a suspicious way as the dancer collected his things together, having not made a sound yet it was understandable that Phoebus had not been noticed just yet. Despite the fact that the goat was making him feel very uneasy he knew that feeling was valid. He knew how many guards had hurt the Gypsies in the past and for what? Just because they were different and unique and unlike anyone else in the whole world. The way they were together was unique and not one of them was the same as anyone else. It was incredibly impressive and he wished he could help them. Yet he knew that might not be possible, still, he would try. 

''You dance wonderfully.'' 

Esmeralda glanced up after finally finishing getting all of his things together, his eyes sparkled in an amused and thankful way. He was very glad that the Captain had enjoyed his dancing and yet part of him was a little bit suspicious of him.

He had tried as a dancer for years, dancing through the streets at least once per day, this often meant he had to run from the guards and yet things like this just happened. He wished they did not. So many innocent people had died because of The Evil Queen's guards, it just wasn't fair. 

Even though he was suspicious of the Captain he did not feel afraid in the least, he knew he was fast and granted if this soldier was going to attack or arrest him wouldn't he have done it by now? Besides, maybe he agreed with his values, maybe he understood that The Evil Queen was awful and that dancing and having fun with trying to make the world a better place was not something to be ashamed of in the least. 

''Thank you, I'm glad you enjoyed my performance Sir.'' 

''Phoebus..'' 

The golden haired man spoke, holding out his hand and the second their hands connected both felt goosebumps roll up their bodies. 

''It's nice to meet you Phoebus, I'm Esmeralda.'' 

''Beautiful name, almost as beautiful as you.'' 

Esmeralda flushed deeply, normally he simply rolled his eyes behind his hand or gave a fake smile whenever he was complimented like that and yet.. hearing it from such wonderful lips made him feel hot and bothered inside. 

He had always known he was beautiful, considering he had long dark hair and with a wonderful face and body people were often sending him presents and gifts. Wanting private performances. Yet that was not why he was a dancer, he danced to make people happy. He danced to feel alive. 

His dances made people happy and that just made him know that every single issue with The Evil Queen's guards was so worth it. People were so worth it. Knowing that he could make even the sickest feel alive just by moving and talking to them, singing to them sometimes was so worth it. It was what he lived for. Granted it wasn't the wealthiest profession but at the same time he did not see it as an occupation. Gypsies were free and lived for no one's wealth. They lived for themselves and for those that needed them. 

''Thank you, you're too kind.'' 

They were still holding hands and neither of them had realized it. Their palms just fitted together as though they had been made for one another. 

Phoebus was extremely beautiful himself, a golden haired beauty. His eyes drifted up and down the younger man's body, just examining him in every detail. The shape of his body, his eyes, his smile, his lips. Every single part of him looked so soft and stunning. 

Esmeralda glanced down when he realized how intently he was being gazed at. So intense that he had to glance down for fear of blushing too much or very obviously biting his own lip. Yet he loved the way he was being looked at. No one had looked at him this way. Granted people often looked at him in a lustful way and yet this didn't appear to be just lustful but something so much more entirely. It felt as if the Captain was trying to look into his soul and see the inner beauty within. 

After a couple of seconds there were shouts heard throughout the streets. Calls coming from guards from The Evil Queen. Of course. He should've known. Surely Phoebus had been holding him there to prevent him from getting away and back home safely. Esmeralda pulled his hand away quickly and fixed him with a glare with narrowed eyes, so much so he appeared to look like an annoyed cat for a few moments. The Golden haired man couldn't work it out why things had changed so quickly before he realized there were guards coming towards them.

''No, it wasn't that! I pr-.''

He began but the Gypsy had taken off quickly, running off into the streets, soon enough he was being stopped by a few guards. Oh he was about to humiliate all of them. 

The dark haired man darted off in another direction, sliding into an alleyway. He knew the guards would not give up so quickly and he had to think in an intelligent fashion. Guards tripped as they tried to get to him. Falling over one another and their own feet. 

He ran through the streets, faster and faster, darting past houses and nature. All the guards were following him now, even Captain Phoebus, although this was more to prevent the other soldiers from hurting him and to reassure him he was never trying to trick him. Esmeralda did a flip and ended up on top of some poles that connected the houses together. He moved along them before jumping down in a neat roll. 

He banged on one of the doors and slid under it just as it flew open, hitting one of the guards in the face and forcing two others to stop. Soon enough he noticed three new others following after him. Sometimes he wondered if The Evil Queen had unlimited guards. Yet he wasn't going to be stopped, he wasn't going to allow himself to be caught when he knew the penalty was death if he were to be arrested. She rarely had mercy for anyone unless there was something in it for her. Yet he knew he could not offer her anything. Well apart from one thing and that he refused to give to someone so cruel. 

Ocean blue hues sparkled as he moved along. Faster and faster, a stitch was coming to his side and yet he ignored it, he would have enough time to rest later on. The Court of Fools was close now and yet he just had to get to it. He just had to find them. Smells of sweet spices were coming from the nearby market place so he darted there, knowing he could find a weapon of some kind and soon enough noticed a knife, with skill and ease he grabbed it, leaving behind a gold coin in payment for the loan. Slicing a nearby rope expertly he was propelled through the air and ended up on a balcony, after planting his feet and making sure his balance was accurate he blew a kiss at the guards from below and continued running. 

The knife itself came down with one of his throws, landing neatly in the table he had taken it from and a few cheers came from the market stall owners. Oh they loved him, they loved him so very deeply. One door opened and a group of young women pulled him inside their home, their brothel. Words were exchanged along with hugs here and there. Granted he had never been a prostitute but had entertained them quite a lot with his dancing in the past and in payment for his performances they would often hide him from the guards and help him escape safely. He loved all these women, as though they were his sisters for he felt very protective over them all like a brother should stereotypically be to their sisters. They were beautiful and wonderful and he was lucky to know them. After they gave him food and a cup of water to enjoy, shouts began coming from the door, the soldiers had turned up. 

''I thank you all ladies and must bid you a fond adieu.''

The young man spoke as he did a running jump out of the window, pressing a fond kiss to the most beautiful one's hand as he went and blowing an air kiss to the rest. 

A relieved smile went over the Gypsy's lips as he noticed his dear old friend Clopin. Perfect timing as always. Although he had never expected anything else. After sliding up to the front to sit by him the two laughed as they watched a few of the guards running after them, without proper horses they would never catch up. 

Phoebus couldn't stop the chuckle that escaped his mouth as he watched the beautiful man escaping with his friend. Truth be told he found the sight quite amazing. Maybe someday he would get the chance to prove to him he was never trying to hurt him but now..now he would just watch and protect, make sure nothing happened to them. Then suddenly there came a loud crash. Two guards were moving in around them. 

He instantly moved his horse in the way, looking as if his beloved steed had done this himself. After pretending to admonish his horse he whispered to him to sit and the pony crushed the guard in a non fatal way. 

‘’Naughty horse, naughty, bad Achilles.’’ 

Esmeralda glanced back as Clopin pulled him along, tugging him in the direction of their safe haven. Taking off his scarf he left it there and pulled an apple down as well, placing them together in a heap as a thank you to the horse and the Captain and perhaps even as an apology for thinking he was trying to trick him. Granted he would’ve thought this of most. 

After apologising to the guards Phoebus moved through the square, coming to a complete stop when he noticed something familiar. That scarf he had noticed during the dance. Gently moving his horse along he noticed some fruit with it and put two and two together. He held up the apple over his shoulder, only removing it when he felt the horse's breath on his skin and the absence of fruit between his fingers. 

A soft smile went over his visage as he glanced in the direction Esmeralda had run off into before letting the scent of the clothing item envelop his senses. It smelt dreamy. Just like he had been. So wonderful. 

Esmeralda meanwhile reached The Court of Fools with his friend Clopin and colour of all hues and shades moved into their lines of sight. They were safe for another day.

The next day the town was filled with lights, music and laughter. 

This legendary event, The Festival Of Fools had arrived in the kingdom. The Evil Queen could not touch them now. She could not harm them. 

Fairies from all of the kingdoms had arrived at this town. People had travelled from everywhere, including some of the other realms to see this event. Some even said that The Dark One was coming but if he showed his face it wasn't obvious in the least. No one paid the rumour any mind. 

The Gypsies were all out, parading through the streets, occasionally stopping here and there to share some words or give out food and toys to the crowd. They spoke of the performance to come, giving little hints from time to time. Only exciting and not giving too much away. The audience became increasingly excited with every single word that left the performer's lips. 

This beautiful circus was completely set up. Tents rested all around the square of all different colours. Esmeralda stood in his tent, finishing getting dressed for his performance. This was the day of all days, this was the one day of each year all Gypsies looked forward to. His ocean blue eyes sparkled in the mirror and then there came a crash from outside, a young woman with a stereotypically hideous appearance was sitting on the ground outside, crying and covered in tomatoes, having had them thrown at her. 

''Hey..hey..''

Esmeralda gently knelt by her side and offered his arm. 

The young woman looked up and into his eyes, a shy smile going over her lips. The woman already felt hypnotized by Esmeralda's beauty and allowed him to help her onto her feet. 

''Come with me.''

The dancer spoke as he led the young woman within the tent and began just wiping off the thrown fruit. It was so awful how they had treated her. What for? Just for being different. Why that was the whole reason he had become a Gypsy in the first place. To live up to no one's expectations.

''Thank you for this.''

Esmeralda shook his head and chuckled slightly, but it was a fond chuckle. He did not believe any thanks were necessary during to the situation. This was just doing what any kind human should be doing. This should not have happened in the first place and it bugged him greatly that it had. After finishing up he moved to one of the other dressing rooms, speaking a few words to one of the women and came back with a gorgeous gown. 

It was so beautiful and completely covered in jewels and flowers. The young woman reached out to try and touch it and felt such beauty under her finger tips.

''Is.. this for me?''

''All yours, it's a gift.''

Esmeralda spoke before turning around to give the young woman some privacy to change.

''What's your name by the way?'' 

''..Quasi..Quasimodo..'' 

That name reminded the dancer of something or rather someone he had heard about in the past. 

''That's a really pretty name. I'm Esmeralda.'' 

''Yours is beautiful, it sounds like emerald.''

Esmeralda chuckled slightly at the comment. He had picked it himself and granted that was not the reason he had gone for that name but that particular opinion on it made him happy. 

After a few moments Quasimodo stepped out. She looked so incredibly beautiful in that gown. The hunch was barely visible. Esmeralda smiled and added a little sparkles to the young woman's face to match his own. Perfect, just completely and utterly perfect. 

The colours really brought out her eyes and she looked wonderful. Taking Quasi's hand Esmeralda gently spun the young woman around before pressing a tender kiss to the back of her hand. Today The Hunchback of Notre Dame felt like a beautiful princess going to a ball with a very handsome prince. She could only hope that his heart was not taken by someone else. For she felt that her heart had been stolen right from this moment. 

Esmeralda just watched her for a moment before gathering his things together for the performance. 

Quasi gazed at him, wondering how someone so beautiful could be just a dancer? Her master Frollo had told her terrifying stories about the gypsies and yet this man.. he seemed so kind and so wonderful. 

Yet Frollo would not lie to her. Surely he would not. He had taken care of her from birth and always would. She felt pretty guilty for running away and spending the day in the kingdom and yet she had needed this. She had craved this for so long. she had needed this so badly. 

The young woman stepped out of the tent after being led by one of the other dancers. 

The other dancers were so beautiful but none of them seemed to have such beauty like Esmeralda. He was just.. everything. So incredible. 

She debated going back in there and telling him just how beautiful she thought he was and to ask him to come and see her sometime but the other dancers were pulling her along, right to the front of the audience. She was a bit nervous for she could see Frollo sitting with guards around on the other side of the square. 

Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me. Please do not see me.

Yet for her praying had never seemed to help in the least. Wishes did but she could see none of the fairies nearby right now and she had already wished for one thing from them throughout her life. To bring her gargoyles to life. It had been a weird wish but she had been in desperate need of comfort and was too afraid of every other human to wish for one to come and join her. Yet Esmeralda.. oh that beautiful man. She would not mind if he came to see her. In fact she would most definitely love it. 

One of the dancers seemed to notice she was uncomfortable about having her face shown and offered her a cloak. Taking it gratefully Quasi quickly covered herself and hid her face from the crowd. She felt much better this way. Yet the dress she was wearing, oh it made her feel so beautiful. She only wished the rest of her body felt like that. She wished her face was as beautiful as a Princess's. She wished her body did not have a hunch to it and she often wondered how this could've happened to her. She often wondered about her mother, she didn't even know the truth about her mother, only what Frollo had told her. She just wished she knew more about her.

She wondered if her mother had looked like her or perhaps she had gotten her looks from her father. She wondered how she had been found in the first place. She wondered where her mother was. Perhaps she wasn't even alive anymore. No. She would try and think positive about things. Thinking negative about everything often brought her down but then she was thankfully snapped out of her negative mind set when loud music began to start once more. Clopin appeared in a puff of rainbow coloured smoke and she gasped. Just watching the jester perform was something that made her feel alive for the first time in so long, knowing that Esmeralda was around just made everything so much warmer as well. This was where she belonged and part of her did not wish to go back to the Cathedral but how could she abandon her friends when she had wished for them to come to life after all?

''Come one! Come all!Hurry, hurry here's your chance! See the mystery and romance.Come one! Come all!See the finest man in France make an entrance to entrance!Dance, La Esmeralda, dance!''

Golden smoke filled the stage as he vanished to be replaced by Esmeralda. 

Oh the way he moved. The way he performed. The way he executed every single flip. He seemed unnatural, unreal and so perfect. 

Quasi moved closer to the stage. Wondering if Esmeralda was dancing for her. Praying that maybe someday she could dance as well as he did. Maybe someday she would get another wish and be able to wish for this particular skill. Maybe someday she would be as beautiful as him. 

Yet, no one could be so. No one could ever be as beautiful as him. No one could ever shine the way Esmeralda did. No one ever could. No one could sparkle and gleam the way he did. She felt her knees go weak as the dancer did so many flips, throwing flowers and glitter into the crowd. So many wonderful colours. This man was a Prince. Beautiful, so beautiful. She had never seen anyone so beautiful in her whole life.

She wished she could go up there and dance with him. She wished she could hold his hand and be alongside him. She wished she could even kiss him. She wished he would want to kiss her and yet she knew that it would never happen. She knew he probably already had someone, a beautiful woman who doted on him and he adored in exchange. Yet she wished that woman could be her. She wished that woman could be her with every single part of her being. Quasi just could not take her eyes off of him. 

Yet in another part of the town square two other people were watching the dancer. Claude Frollo and Captain Phoebus were watching Esmeralda. One with a lustful gaze, narrowing his eyes at him. The other was watching him as though he was the more beautiful man in the whole world, inside and out. The way he moved, some believed he was the devil, yet Phoebus and Quasi believed him to be completely the opposite, an angel. For he shone as bright as any angel, no, brighter than an angel. Brighter than the most beautiful star in the night sky. His body was perfect, so perfect. Beautifully toned and his abs were perfectly sculpted. 

He danced as though he were a fairy, in fact the true fairies moved glitter around him and he floated up into the air, closing his eyes and just letting their power move him around. Above everyone's heads but he seemed so at ease. As though this had happened so many times and he trusted them with every single part of his being. It was truly a wonderful sight. Quasi felt scared for a while that he might fall and hurt himself but one of the nearby dancers, the same one that had given their hood told her to relax and that Esmeralda was fine and knew precisely what he was doing. That he always knew what he was doing, despite everything looking so dangerous and Quasi decided to trust the dancer. Despite noticing the speaker flinch a few times themself. 

When the dance came to an end Quasi pouted and felt a little bit sad. The dancer moved her through the streets and back towards the tent. 

The sky had darkened just the tiniest bit. Perhaps the sky had even felt sad when the performance came to an end. Clouds moved across it in a beautiful but normal, casual way instead of the vibrant and gorgeous way it had been when Esmeralda had been moving.

Arrows flew through the air. 

Snow White and her fiancè Prince Charming moved through the town's square over the heads of the crowd. 

For months now this particular festival had been all the dark haired woman had spoken about and yet being out in the open when The Evil Queen’s guards were around wasn’t the smartest idea. 

Still he loved her. He loved her so very much and could never deny Snow anything. The thought of her being unhappy or going without something she really wanted because of Regina made Charming’s blood boil so much. Regina had caused too much, she had taken away far too much from Snow. 

Truth be told he didn’t know the full story behind it all. He knew it was more than Regina poisoning an apple because she found Snow to be prettier than her. He knew there was something Snow was hiding from him but decided not to pressure her after time. This was clearly a topic his love hated discussing and until she was ready he wasn’t going to try and bring it out of her.

As they both landed in a neat fashion he offered Snow a hand to help her fully back up onto her feet which she took with gladness. He pressed a gentle kiss to the back of her hand, lingering the peck there. Oh the way he loves her overcomes any worried feeling about this. He hadn’t been too keen on it but there were such things as cloaks and during the festival there were far too many people here. It would be quick and easy to slip in and out, to come and go as they pleased. 

After climbing down and moving onto the ground he offered his love his arm and she took it after doing a neat flip to land beside him. 

‘’Show off.’’

‘’For you Charming, always.’’ 

Charming gave her a look before gently cupping her cheeks and capturing her mouth in a soft and loving kiss. For moments they just stood there, leaning up against a house and kissing one another. 

He still remembers the first time they saw one another. She stole from him and then hit him in the face with a rock to try and render him unconscious. Yet over time they had come to realize that they could not be without one another for being without the one you were supposed to be with was a torture no one should have to bear. 

After a few moments the kiss ended and he took Snow’s hand, leading her through the crowd and to a place where they could watch the festival. The festival was so beautiful, so incredibly beautiful. When Snow had been a young girl she had often asked her parents to bring her here. Then her mother had died and everything had changed. She hated the thought of watching this without her and yet sharing this experience with Charming instead made her very happy. 

This was the start of their new life together.

Everything seemed so peaceful. 

Snow moved through the square, occasionally playing with Charming's fingers. This place was so beautiful and incredible. She wished she could spend more time here but she knew that only a day was possible. 

She stopped now and again to look at some things and he had to keep her moving. The thought of being spotted by some of the Queen's guards made him feel nauseous. He knew Snow was not afraid of what Regina could do to her and yet he was. He was just terrified. 

Snow on the other hand tried hard to not fear Regina. For her own sake. It took a lot out of her but whenever she thought of her she could imagine that young woman who had saved her from the horse going out of control. Now that she knew what had happened everything made more sense and she didn't fear Regina. She pitied her. She only felt anger towards her when she hurt someone who had been trying to help keep her safe. 

Quasimodo meanwhile was leaning up against the side of a building. Just keeping her face covered and watching the tent Esmeralda had gone into. She just wanted to see him again, just once more and then she would happily return back to the bell tower and never come back. Her eyes drifted to a wanted poster and then to Snow White who was nearby by this time. How was this even possible? Why on earth would she come to a place where there were so many people and guards secretly on every corner?

She wanted to help her. She wanted to help anyone in need. Granted she had never met either Snow or The Evil Queen but due to the stories about both of them she felt fairly certain she knew who she could trust. Her hues blinked open and closed a few times as she made her way over to the bandit and her love. The Hunchback of Notre Dame bit her bottom lip as she reached their sides. Truth b told she didn't know how she was going to tell them that there were so many guards on every corner but she knew she had to at least try. The guards were not meant to be there, this day was all about the freedom of those that were in need. They should not be there. 

''Hello..''

The ginger haired woman spoke as she attempted to keep her face covered. She knew how people reacted when they saw her face for the first time.

Snow and Charming both instantly looked at her, giving the young woman their full attention and tilting their heads to the side. Neither of them had met this woman, they could tell from the voice. Yet maybe she desperately needed to tell them something. That was often common with who they were. 

''You must be careful.. there are guards on every single corner, many in disguise.''

Charming instantly gave Snow White an apologetic look. He knew they might have to leave now, unless there was a chance they could be hidden well. 

''The Evil Queen does not frighten me and I'm not going to allow her to ruin this day for us, however thank you..miss?''

''Q..Quasi..Quasimodo.'' 

Snow appeared to be trying to peep beneath her hood to see if she was working for The Queen but Quasi shook her head and kept her face hidden. 

She couldn't allow her to see. 

Despite having heard only good things about the Princess of the enchanted forest, the rightful Queen she did not wish her to be alarmed. 

Charming gently squeezed Snow's hand in a hint to say that this young woman clearly did not wish to be see for some reason but he believed they could trust her given her words. Surely if she was working for the Queen she would not have warned them. 

Regina had so-called friends everywhere and yet, Charming prided himself on being a good judge of character. He didn't think this young woman was one of them. His mind went to Anna for a moment, with this woman's hair colour he was reminded of her. So despite Snow's suspicious nature he had already decided to trust her. His green eyes sparkled as Snow looked at him before understanding and backing off a little bit. 

Oh Quasi wished she could show her face, she wished she wasn't so hideous. She wished there wasn't a chance of the two of them running off screaming if they saw what she truly looked like and yet she could not take the chance. Yet she remembered that man, that gorgeous Esmeralda who had not run from her. He had been so kind, so wonderful to her and he hadn't needed to be. He could have laughed and yelled, even thrown things at her and yet he did not. Yet he did not. Yet he was perfect, just perfect. 

Damn it, just focus.

Yet she could not get him out of her mind and it was only when Snow and Charming gently touched her shoulder to get her attention that her notice went back onto them again.

She breathed out, partly feeling sad that her mind was elsewhere now and not on the beautiful man and yet she knew she had to help these two above all other things. Beckoning to them to follow her she moved away up the slope that led to the Cathedral, keeping her head down. 

Then it came. 

The sounds and shouts coming from the soldiers of this area and from the Queen's guards. They had spotted Snow and Charming and now Quasi, it was obvious she was trying to help them escape. 

Rough hands grabbed her arms. 

She tried to pull away but it was no use and finally her face was in view when they pulled her hood away, believing she was Snow White, screams, shouts and laughter moved through the area and Quasi burst into tears. 

She tried to cover her face with her hands but the guards were far too strong for her to do so. She was pulled through the streets. Snow and Charming tried to get to her but she beckoned to them to leave. To run. She couldn't bear for them to be hurt and caught as well.

Then it came, she was thrown to the ground and ropes were thrown around her, tying her to a wooden platform. Some of the guards had worked out Snow and charming were around and were running through the area, looking for them. People began throwing food so she couldn't even see through the tomato that was flying into her face. No. This was too much, sure this had to be a nightmare.