Title: Pure, Untainted is I
Work ID: 45701893
Author: 
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Angst, Prose Poem
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

I remember the time back then. When I stood high above the rest, pure and untainted by their blackened hands. I never stooped down to their level, never took the way of the wretched to survive. I rose above them, staying far away from their prying hands and watching eyes. And yet, still, it seems there was no holding back the rot from my origins. Try as I might to wash my hands clean, there will still be the smell of copper lingering around me, the dried flakes sticking underneath my nails, and the vultures lurking below could sense it. ‘Part of us,’ they crow, seeking to pull me under. I walk straight and hold my head high, showing no weakness that they could take advantage of.

Still, it seems that a heart encased in iron and bound by chains is still a heart nonetheless. The dastardly thing beats for another, fluttering and begging to be let out and join the object of its affections. Try as I may to resist, to chain it down even further and deeper inside, you do not let me. You claim my heart as your own, claim my mind, claim my ideals. You intrude upon my waking hours with your presence and at night you come in dreams that feel all too real. I am helpless, my daily life so filled with your presence that I can’t imagine living a life without it. And then I fall. And then I am corrupted.

You have succeeded where so many have failed. My mind is tainted now, everything you do leaves another mark on my heart and head. I will never be able to escape you, because even if you do not know it, even if I try to leave, you hold my life in your hands. ‘Anything for you, anything at all,’ it says, and I know all too well that it is the truth. I was once on a path of righteousness and truth but now I am marred by you, and sometimes it seems that I could not stoop any lower than this. And yet, with every action you take, every smile, every glance, every whisper, I sink even lower in the whirlpool of my sins. My hand is dripping with blood, yet you hold them carefully as if they were fragile, as if I deserve care, and death would be kinder than this.

Death would be kinder to me than you. I am helpless to your pull, like a moth to a flame, and I would burn, no doubt about it, and surely you could tell the distance that I was willing to go for you, but you do not let me go. You do not shun me, do not turn off your light that is directed at me, and I am powerless. Vulnerable. A puppet dancing to the beat of your heart and a broken toy without you. Death would be a better fate because you condemn me to be all that I despise but I cannot hate you, cannot scream out my fears or even cry because knowing you was worth it. It was worth the pain, worth the amount of crimson dripping from my hands, worth my entire life. It was worth it. It had to be.