Title: Sentinel
Work ID: 33837589
Author: PBJellie
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Grantaire & Jean Prouvaire, Bahorel/Feuilly (Les Misérables), Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Dead Dove: Do Not Eat, Implied/Referenced Rape/Non-con, Drug Addiction, Child Abuse, Alternate Universe - Hunger Games Setting, Hunger Games-Typical Death/Violence, POV Child, Heavy Angst, Non-Binary Jean Prouvaire
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 17/?

Jehan lived with Grantaire. There was a time before Jehan lived with Grantaire, but they didn’t like to think about that time. 

Sometimes, when they fell asleep, they thought about it, but they didn’t like it. They didn’t like thinking about the time before they lived with Grantaire, nor did they like to fall asleep. So naturally, Jehan avoided sleeping and being away from Grantaire, just in case.

Some separations were not avoidable. 

That’s what Grantaire said, but Jehan knew that wasn’t true. People lied a lot, and they knew that. They were eleven and not stupid. Their mom and not dad had said that Jehan wasn’t allowed in the Capital, that’s why they had to stay alone in 8, but Grantaire brought Jehan with him two years ago, when they had to evacuate. 

They had to evacuate because three men dressed in all black broke into Grantaire’s house at night. Those men held Jehan off the ground with a knife to their throat, and Grantaire had to kill them. He used his hands on the first one, the one with the knife, and as Jehan fell to the ground, crying a whole lot, Grantaire used the knife on the other two. 

Jehan getting to come to the Capital was a special exception, according to the Game Maker. The Game Maker was his dad, but not really. He hadn’t done anything to be a dad so Bahorel said he shouldn’t give him any credit. Jehan had to ask what credit was, and Feuilly explained it was when you bought something and promised to pay for it later. If the shopkeeper liked you, they’d let you take the food before paying.

Jehan did not like Mr. Enjolras the Game Maker, so he did not give him any credit. 

“Buddy, it’s time for bed,” Bahorel yawned. “Where do you want to sleep?” 

With Grantaire. 

That was not a choice though, not with Grantaire in the hospital. Grantaire took too much medicine and got sick; he was addicted to his medicine. They were making him unaddicted through detox, and Jehan wasn’t allowed to stay with him for that. That was maybe a lie though. 

Adults lied.

“Jehan,” Bahorel placed his hand on Jehan’s knee, “where do you want to sleep?” 

“I’m not tired.” 

Jehan was very tired, but he was allowed to lie if adults were. 

“Jehan, you have to sleep,” Bahorel grumbled. He wasn’t angry at Jehan though, he was angry at Combeferre. Last night, once they got back from the base and Grantaire left them, Jehan and Bahorel went on a mission to catch raccoons to put in Combeferre’s apartment. Bahorel said it’d teach Combeferre a lesson about keeping his fucking hands to his goddamn self, and Feuilly said it was cruel and they shouldn’t do that.

Jehan wanted to teach Combeferre a lesson, so they went with. Jehan also liked to walk around the Capital at night. Bahorel made them wear a turtleneck sweater, so no one could see how badly Combeferre hurt them. It was almost like Grantaire was there, because Grantaire made them take a sweater, a coat, some mittens, and a scarf every time they went outside and it was even windy. Grantaire was afraid that Jehan would freeze to death. 

He called it dying of exposure, but Grantaire was afraid of the cold. When it snowed, Grantaire refused to leave the house. That was fine because when they lived in 8 Grantaire was the only person that liked them. Jehan liked being homeschooled, because Grantaire wasn’t mean like the kids from 8. 

Also because Grantaire didn’t make them do homeschooling. He just asked if Jehan could read, and Jehan could already read. Then Jehan’s school, which wasn’t mandatory, no one made them do it, was reading Grantaire’s survival books, just in case. 

Now that Jehan had to play next year, it became mandatory. Bahorel and Feuilly made sure they studied. 

“It’s time for bed,” Bahorel said as Joly snored on the couch. “Aren’t you tired? You have to be exhausted.” 

“Not even a little.” 

When Jehan got this tired it made their knees and ankles hurt, but they didn’t tell Bahorel that. They were lying.

“Jehan, this isn’t cute.” 

“I have insomnia,” Jehan read that in one of Grantaire’s books. “It’s a medical disorder. It’s like being nocturnal, but I don’t sleep during the day, either.” 

Raccoons were nocturnal. That’s why Jehan had to go with Bahorel at night. Raccoons wouldn’t climb into metal traps for peanut butter cups during the daytime, because they were sleeping. Bahorel bought a whole bag of peanut butter cups and half went to the raccoons. Bahorel and Jehan shared the other half as they walked around the Capital, talking about how scared Combeferre was going to be and what a mess the raccoons would make. 

They caught three raccoons, and they put one in each of the mentor bedrooms, and then the last one in the kitchen. The mentor bedrooms were the nicer bedrooms, with bathrooms attached. Jehan had a mentor bedroom in 8’s apartment, though they just slept in Grantaire’s bed. 

“Bed.”

“Can I sleep by you?” 

Jehan wasn’t going to sleep, but they could lay by Bahorel. 

“You can sleep on the floor, if you want,” Bahorel sighed. 

Bahorel never wanted Jehan to sleep in bed with him. Jehan knew the answer was going to be no, but being in Bahorel’s room was better than not being in Bahorel’s room. Bahorel was strong. If Jehan could be next to Bahorel, then Bahorel would be there to protect them if someone came in through the window again. 

“Okay,” Jehan nodded, clenching their jaw so they didn’t yawn. They were tired, but Bahorel couldn’t know that. “You have Dolly?” 

“Aren’t you too big for that?” Bahorel asked, but he wasn’t asking. When Bahorel did this he was telling Jehan.

Jehan didn’t understand how they could be too big for their doll. They had always been bigger than the doll. Grantaire made Dolly and he said it was for Jehan, to keep them company when they were alone. Grantaire didn’t tell him there’d come a time when Jehan couldn’t have Dolly anymore.

In fact, Grantaire said Dolly was Jehan’s for as long as they wanted it. 

And Jehan wanted Dolly.

“You have Dolly?” This time Jehan yawned. They couldn’t help it. 

“Yeah, I’ll make you a pallet.” 

A pallet when Bahorel said it was a pile of blankets on the floor. Sometimes Jehan’s not dad, the man who thought he was Jehan’s dad until he knew he wasn’t, would talk about pallets on the phone. Jehan was small, not even four, when they first heard about pallets. They were eating dinner, Jehan’s mom was across the street visiting with their real dad, and Jehan’s not dad yelled into the phone about pallets.

Jehan’s not dad yelled a lot. Jehan had forgotten how the pallet memory ended; they wouldn’t have thought so much about pallets if they remembered the ending of that at the beginning. Jehan, at the end of that story, almost got hit with a plate. It hit the wall, not Jehan, but that was because Jehan was fast at ducking. 

“You’re so tired. I can tell.” 

“Not tired,” Jehan shook their head. It hurt. They weren’t going to tell Bahorel they were tired. 

“Come lay down,” Bahorel stood up with his hands on his hips, his mouth scrunched up and his nose wrinkled. 

 

Bahorel was getting mad. He was scary, but that was good sometimes. Bahorel’s muscles could protect Jehan. 

 

Jehan’s body hurt, but they nodded. It hurt to nod, but they felt like they had to. The bruises and cuts on their neck ached. Muscles could also be used to hurt Jehan, they had to remember that. They made the mistake of being too relaxed around other people, and they almost died. 

Jehan made that same mistake with their babysitter when they were six. They thought she was nice, just like they thought Combeferre was nice. The babysitter told them they needed to take a bath, and then they held Jehan’s head underwater. She gave up, and said she felt bad for hurting a little kid, then ran off.

Jehan’s mom didn’t come home for another three days. 

They had to spend all that time alone.

“Jehan’s not in bed?” Feuilly asked. 

Jehan didn’t know when Feuilly came back, but they were glad he was back. Feuilly was nicer than Bahorel, but still strong. Feuilly sat with Jehan when they were upset and held them when they cried. 

“Where’d you go? Some warning would have been nice.” 

Bahorel would beat Feuilly in a fight, but Jehan would have time to run away, if it ever came to that. If Feuilly and Bahorel ever turned on them at the same time, then Jehan would die.

Just like in their nightmares.

“Combeferre is having a panic attack on my fucking couch. I just came to get my toothbrush and some clothes. He’s still in his fucking scrubs, Baz.” 

“So you’re gonna babysit that asshole?” 

Combeferre got to spend the night with Feuilly? That wasn’t fair. Combeferre was getting a reward for hurting Jehan. 

“I’m not in the mood,” Feuilly’s arm wrapped around Jehan’s shoulders. That was an invitation to cuddle. Jehan liked those. “Do you need help getting to sleep?” 

Yes, but it had to be Grantaire. No one else had ever saved them before, and they didn’t want to take that chance. And even if they did trust Feuilly with their protection, which they didn’t, not while they were unconscious, apparently Combeferre was more important; he was getting to spend time with Feuilly. 

It hurt to tilt their neck to lean against Feuilly, but it was worth it. They crawled into Feuilly’s lap, and pretended that they weren’t about to betray them to stay with Combeferre. Maybe if they were good enough, Feuilly would stay for Jehan.

“He doesn’t deserve it,” Bahorel said. 

That wasn’t true. Bahorel was wrong. Jehan deserved Feuilly holding them and smoothing their hair. This was a nice thing, and Grantaire said Jehan deserved nice things. 

“You don’t get to pick who deserves what,” Feuilly stopped touching Jehan’s braid, his hand just froze as he snapped at Bahorel. “He’s obviously fucking traumatized and you put fucking raccoons in his room. That’d be just like me playing the sounds of all those kids trapped, over and over, just to fuck with you.” 

Feuilly said fuck a lot when he was angry and his hand was a fist. Jehan, carefully, pulled away from his lap, just in case Feuilly was about to hit someone. Jehan didn’t like to get hit. 

“Jehan could have died!” 

“But Jehan didn’t die. They didn’t die, and somehow Combeferre lost a fight to a normal raccoon, because he’s doing so fucking poorly. He’s sitting in a ball on my couch, whispering about raccoons.”

“So what, you have a hot new piece of ass and you don’t need me anymore?” Bahorel snorted. 

Bahorel and Feuilly were in love. That’s why they shared an apartment and a bedroom. When the Capital wasn’t watching, Bahorel and Feuilly held hands, and sometimes when Bahorel thought Jehan wasn’t paying attention he’d kiss Feuilly on the cheek or really quick on the lips. 

Jehan always paid attention though, so they saw it. Feuilly and Bahorel were the most in love Jehan had ever seen two people, and that was including Grantaire and Enjolras, little Enjolras not Enjolras the Game Maker. Enjolras and Grantaire didn’t talk that much, not where Jehan ever saw. Enjolras just read books and Grantaire wore his coat in the middle of summer, and then Enjolras had to leave. 

That’s when Grantaire said Jehan could move in, after Enjolras had to go. Enjolras never liked Jehan, but he seemed to like Grantaire. Grantaire volunteering for Enjolras should have been a wonderful love story and then Enjolras had to go and ruin it. When Grantaire and Enjolras brought food, when Jehan’s mom was out of town, Enjolras always said that they didn’t have to be there, that they could just leave Jehan alone. Enjolras liked them less than Combeferre did, but he was too much of a coward to do anything about it.

At least Combeferre was brave.

“Baz, you know that was an accident,” Feuilly sighed, unclenching his fist as Jehan squished themself against Joly. He didn’t wake up, but Joly slept well, he always did. “He’s got a boy back home he likes.” 

“But he’s going to be fucking you.” 

“He’s going to be fucking all of us and about ten percent of the damn Capital,” Feuilly pressed his fingers into his temples. Fucking meant having sex, and having sex is what Jehan saw Bahorel and Grantaire do on the TV back in 8. “He’s going to have an awful fucking time, and we could, at the very least, not torment him.” 

Hopefully, Combeferre would be the one getting hurt in the sex. That was what Jehan wanted. Grantaire said it was pretend, but they saw the bruises on his body, they knew it wasn’t pretend hurt. That was real hurt, and Combeferre deserved it.

“You’re going to get married,” Bahorel’s cheeks flared red as he paced around the room. “And not to me.” 

“You wanted to marry me?” Feuilly chuckled, then seriously repeated, “you wanted to marry me.” 

“It wasn’t even an option, I didn’t think,” Bahorel went back and forth, tugging at his shirt with both hands. ”I love you, you know? You’re going to make me gray by the time I’m thirty, but I love you.” 

“I love you, too, you fucking asshole.” 

And then they were kissing on the couch, with Jehan and Joly right by them. Bahorel threw his arms around Feuilly’s neck, and Feuilly grabbed Bahorel's butt. They did this for almost a minute until they broke away panting like they had to run up a lot of stairs really fast. 

“You and Combeferre, huh?” Bahorel’s face was flushed red as Feuilly nodded. “Do you need me to come up there with you?” 

“I don’t think he’s gonna want to see you,” Feuilly whispered. “Anyway, someone needs to watch Jehan and Joly.” 

“Joly’s fine,” Bahorel laughed. “If left to his own devices he’s going to do all his chores first thing in the morning, then do a puzzle and play solitaire all day.” 

That sounded terribly boring, but not as boring as the base. 

“What about Jehan?” Feuilly asked, nudging Bahorel off his lap. 

“Jehan can go to sleep, and then we can have a little bit of personal time,” Bahorel snuck a kiss at Feuilly’s chin. “It’s been a long time, hasn’t it?” 

“Mmhmm,” Feuilly’s hum was long and drawn out, and then they pulled apart again to both look at Jehan. “You gotta go to bed, kiddo.” 

“I’m not tired,” Jehan whispered. “Don’t go.” 

“It’ll only be a minute,” Bahorel promised. Feuilly laughed, and Jehan didn’t understand why that was funny. 

“At least five. I can make it at least five.” 

“Thirty seconds, Jehan,” Bahorel was laughing, too. They were both laughing so hard, like Jehan hadn’t just gotten hurt yesterday morning and they weren’t threatening to leave them all alone. 

“Don’t go,” Jehan repeated, staring at the floor. 

Everyone left and it didn’t matter what Jehan wanted. Even Grantaire, who was the best person on the planet, left. People didn’t want to stay with Jehan, and it wasn’t like they could make them. If Jehan could have made people do things, then Jehan’s mom and not dad would have never left them alone. 

“I made your bed up,” Bahorel explained from out of sight as he pressed the button for the elevator. “Go lay down, at least.” 

Feuilly was leaving, too. Everyone was leaving, it was just Jehan and Joly and Joly was never going to be good in a fight. Joly was nice, but Joly wasn’t strong. Joly couldn’t protect anybody, not unless it was swimming related, and there was no water in the apartment.

Jehan held onto Joly’s arm, anyway. He wouldn’t wake up; he never did. According to Grantaire, Joly slept like he didn’t live in Panem, and while Jehan didn’t know what that meant, he knew that Joly didn’t wake up at night screaming. When asked if he had nightmares, Joly said, no not really, and he was the only person who said that and was telling the truth. 

Bahorel had nightmares, they just didn’t make him scream, same with Feuilly. Grantaire though, he’d wake up with his teeth chattering and gasping for air, and it was Jehan’s job, when they lived in the house in 8, to go get an extra blanket and drop it on top of Grantaire, just so he knew he’d be warm. This was before they slept in the same bed, because now their job was to nudge Grantaire’s shoulder until he woke up, so he could feel better. 

Once, when Jehan first moved in, back when Jehan didn’t have anything to say to him, Grantaire drank a lot of wine, after he got back from his Victory party in the Capital, and he said, Jehan, you don’t have anybody, and I don’t have anybody, so we should have each other, right? And Jehan was almost eight and all alone and so it sounded like a good idea.

It also sounded like the truth, which it wasn’t, because Grantaire had all the other Victors and Jehan really only had Grantaire. 

When Bahorel came back into the apartment, he didn’t notice Jehan was sitting up on the couch with their eyes open.

Grantaire didn’t come home for a whole week. 

During that week Jehan didn’t sleep. Sure, they slept in spurts, but it was always on accident. They were leaning against Joly one minute and then they were screaming, clawing at the men who held them in the air. But then it was just Bahorel holding them down after they scratched his face. 

Bahorel said he wasn’t mad, even though his cheek was bleeding. He said Jehan had slept for almost an hour that time, then asked if they wanted to go lay on the bed. 

Not by themself. Not without Grantaire.

But then Grantaire came home. 

He had black smudges under his eyes, but he wasn’t so yellow anymore. He was tan, like Javert and Valjean. That was how he looked when Jehan first saw him. 

Grantaire wasn’t smiling when Jehan first met him either. 

“Came to get Jehan,” Grantaire said as he walked into the room. 

“Hi,” Bahorel laughed as Jehan blinked slowly. They had to be sure this was really Grantaire. Sometimes they saw Grantaire when he wasn’t there, when they got tired enough. “Good to fucking see you, too.” 

“Look, I’m going to be honest,” Grantaire frowned, “I’m in a piss poor mood. Valjean is ripping apart my apartment looking for where I hid my drugs to make sure I feel as shitty as I can for as long as I can.”

“You sure you want Jehan back?” 

Of course he wanted Jehan back. Jehan not coming back was not an option, was it? Who would Jehan have if they didn’t have Grantaire? 

No one. They’d have no one. They’d be all alone in the Capital, unless they were sent back to 8. What would they do? Bahorel didn’t like them, not really, and Feuilly picked Combeferre. Maybe they could stay with Joly. Joly couldn’t take care of them, or keep them safe in an emergency, and most of the time Joly wasn’t really sure what was happening around him, but at least Jehan would have a roof over their head. 

Just in case Grantaire didn’t want Jehan back. 

“I figured you were done,” Grantaire kept frowning. “Jehan let’s go.” 

Where were they going? They bit their lip and hoped they were going together. Grantaire was back, but they weren’t happy. Was Jehan going somewhere without him? 

“Christ, did you sleep at all?” 

Bahorel shrugged, “maybe four hours.” 

“A night? Bahorel, you’ve got to make them go to fucking sleep. That’s not healthy.” 

Grantaire was the one coming back from the hospital, not them. Jehan hadn’t seen a doctor since they were little, which meant they were fine. 

“Oh, no, I mean total. I kept waiting for them to crash, but when they did, that’d only last about an hour.” 

Grantaire was frowning at them. Jehan had to do something, anything. “I missed you,” Jehan smiled but their cheeks felt too tight. They did miss Grantaire, it wasn’t a lie. “Are you better?” 

“I’m working on it,” Grantaire sighed and he didn’t smile back. He also didn’t say he missed Jehan, too. Maybe he didn’t. Maybe he liked being away from Jehan. Maybe he’d go back to the hospital, just to escape again. “How’s Combeferre?” 

“I haven’t talked with him, you’d have to ask Feuilly.” 

“Bahorel and I put raccoons in his apartment, as revenge,” Jehan yawned. 

“And after Feuilly bitched enough, I shooed them out through the balcony. The raccoons are gone,” Bahorel groaned as Grantaire glared. “He nearly fucking killed Jehan.” 

“But he didn’t.” 

Maybe Grantaire wanted them to die. Maybe Grantaire and Combeferre were working together, in cahoots. That was a word Feuilly used when he complained about the time the elevator stopped working and they all had to take the fire escapes down to the street. The Capital and the weather, it was raining, were in cahoots. 

It sort of sounded like an owl, and Jehan had spent the evening, back when Joly first moved into the apartment, right after they cut off his leg because it didn’t have any shark bites on it, being an owl that only said cahoots. Joly was taking pills every four hours, and he did it, too. Then Bahorel said that Jehan and Joly were in cahoots to drive him fucking nuts, and Feuilly said that he was already fucking there. Grantaire had taken his medicine and he was asleep on the couch, drool coming out of his mouth. 

“I don’t have the energy for a lecture.” 

“I wouldn’t listen to one.” 

Jehan would listen. If Grantaire wanted to talk to Jehan for a long time, that would be fine, even if it was a talk where Grantaire was mad. Sometimes Jehan would do things that were bad, but only a little bit bad, like leave the fridge open, drop trash on the floor, or unfold all the blankets, just so Grantaire would talk to them. 

Usually Grantaire didn’t lecture, he just sighed and closed the fridge, or threw away the trash, or shoved all the blankets back into the linen closet in the bathroom unfolded, then he went back to lay down in his room with the door shut. If Grantaire was alone in his room with his door shut in the daytime, that meant Jehan was supposed to occupy themself. They had to find something to do and leave Grantaire alone. 

They had to leave everyone alone, because Feuilly and Bahorel didn’t like it when they went to 2’s apartment without Grantaire. Sometimes it was okay, if Grantaire had to go somewhere overnight, but usually it wasn’t. Jehan got really bored during last winter, and there wasn’t anything good on TV, just footage from a Game no one in the apartment played in, and then the paparazzi shows where they took pictures of Bahorel in clubs with women with their belly buttons showing, asking if she was the one. One time Bahorel was taking a drink from a lady's belly button, and when Jehan asked about it, Bahorel said it was a body shot, then as Feuilly stormed off and slammed the door, he added that it didn’t mean anything. 

Anyway, Jehan wasn’t supposed to be in 2’s apartment without permission. Grantaire being out of town had been permission, and now Grantaire was back, and he was going to go back to his room and shut the door in the daytime and Jehan would have to knit, or crochet, or draw, or write, or read, or dress Dolly, until someone, usually Joly, really only ever Joly, asked to see them. And then Jehan would get to see Joly for a couple hours until Bahorel and Feuilly said it was time for Jehan to go. 

At least at nighttime Jehan got to sleep next to Grantaire. 

“Get me their things,” Grantaire sighed. “They’re not even lucid.” 

“You would know a lot about that, wouldn’t you,” Bahorel clasped Grantaire on the back like that was a really funny joke, then Grantaire winced like it hurt. He didn’t make any noise though, because Grantaire was good at hurting silently. 

“Jehan do that to you?” Grantaire asked as Jehan tucked their feet underneath them on the couch. Jehan did scratch Bahorel in the face, and Jehan wasn’t supposed to hit people. Jehan was going to get in trouble, and it wouldn’t be a lecture. They didn’t get lectures; they got locked in their room. 

“Nightmare,” Bahorel held Dolly in his arms, as well as Jehan’s special weighted blanket. 

Grantaire made that blanket for Jehan, so, in his words, Jehan would be less of a fucking basket case, but then Bahorel said it didn’t work. Feuilly really liked the blanket, so asked Grantaire to make one, and in exchange he took Jehan to the park. That’s how Feuilly paid, by taking Jehan away from Grantaire, because clearly Grantaire didn’t even like them. 

Joly got one too, but he didn’t pay anything. They all felt bad asking Joly to do anything. He did chores without being asked, even though an avox came twice a week to clean, and he only complained when they had to do a Capital thing. Joly was what Grantaire called a good boy, and Grantaire didn’t call Jehan good. They weren’t a boy, but they could still be good, right? 

“As long as it wasn’t just for fun, I guess,” Grantaire didn’t really look better. Maybe his skin, yeah, but he looked tired. He looked like he didn’t get any sleep at all, and he looked skinny. He was always skinny, at least in his arms and legs, but before his tummy hung out a little. Feuilly called them love handles, whatever that meant. 

“Jehan listened, didn’t you?” Bahorel asked, so Jehan nodded. “Besides the sleep thing. After the first night of no sleep, they mostly just sat on the couch. Guess they were too tired to cause problems.” 

Bahorel and Valjean and Javert said that Jehan caused problems. They didn’t. Feuilly and Joly never said Jehan was a problem. Sometimes Grantaire would, when he had to go somewhere and he didn’t know what to do with Jehan. But that was the problem of Jehan, and he’d drink coffee at his kitchen table in 8 and mutter to himself about it until he just decided that if he left extra food it’d be okay. 

“Come on, can you make it to the elevator, or does Bahorel need to carry you?” 

Jehan’s feet were asleep, from being underneath them for as long as they had been, but they tried to stand up, anyway. They stumbled a bit, but Bahorel grabbed their shoulder, then hoisted them into the air. “Gotcha,” Bahorel laughed as he held Jehan against his chest. “You were my compadre this week, weren’t you?” 

A compadre was like a friend. Jehan nodded. 

“Well, if you want to take Jehan tomorrow morning go for it.” 

Bahorel laughed and his whole chest bounced, and that bounced Jehan. Bahorel was strong. “Give me a day or two, dude.” 

“Yeah, yeah,” Grantaire smiled a little bit for the first time since he came home. “A day or two.” A day or two with Jehan. 

 

“I need to train them before I go,” Bahorel wasn’t laughing anymore. “After the solstice, I restart the Academy.”

“You’re really doing that?” Grantaire pressed the button for 8. That was their apartment, number 8.

“Yeah, I mean, I’m getting what I want out of it. Mutts won’t target them and two weeks before I’ll know what kinda arena we’re talking about.” 

“No mutts?” 

“Not for them,” Bahorel’s chin bumped into Jehan’s head as he nodded. “It’s not a guarantee but-” 

“I, uh, I appreciate it, Bahorel,” Grantaire looked sad again, and Jehan didn’t understand why. He was just smiling, and he was going to spend a day or two with Jehan. Wasn’t that good? “Thanks, man. You didn’t have to.” 

“I kinda did,” Bahorel shrugged as he stepped into the apartment. “Where do you want Jehan?” 

“They look as tired as I feel, so bed, I guess.” 

“You’re going to sleep in your own room, isn’t that exciting?” Bahorel sing songed. That was the voice he used when talking to the caged raccoons. Grantaire called that voice condescending when he used it on Joly. 

“I wanna sleep by Grantaire,” Jehan’s jaw seemed to unhinge as they yawned. 

“But you’re almost twelve,” Bahorel didn’t use his raccoon voice anymore. “You gotta grow up, kid.” 

“No, you don’t,” Grantaire groaned. “Just put Jehan in my bed. It’s fine. My kid sister used to do the same thing.” 

“You have a sister?” Bahorel laughed. “Hope there’s not a lot of family resemblance.” 

Jehan had never met Grantaire’s sister; they’d never met anyone in Grantaire’s family. Grantaire didn’t talk about family, not with Jehan. Most of their conversations were about what was for dinner, or correcting Jehan when they said a naughty word that they didn’t know was bad. 

Jehan didn’t like to talk about their family. It made them feel sad.

“Had a sister,” Grantaire opened his bedroom door, then chuckled a little. “He found the ones I kept in the pillowcase, and that’s why that bastard changed my sheets. I can’t even be fucking mad, can I? Valjean’s good at what he does.” 

“I’m sorry, dude,” Bahorel dropped Jehan onto the bed. It was a short drop and the blankets were soft, so it didn’t hurt. 

“Can I meet your sister?” Jehan asked, pulling back the blankets and crawling underneath. Grantaire made this quilt, it was dark green, and Jehan helped, a little. They tufted the fabric, tying little knots every six inches so the quilt would be fluffy. Grantaire said it was a big help, but Jehan wasn’t so sure. 

“She’s dead.” 

“Did she die in the Hunger Games?” Jehan asked. That was how most children died, wasn’t it? That’s how they were going to die. 

Grantaire stood over the bed as Bahorel sat down in a chair at the far side of the room. That was the chair where Grantaire liked to read. He read survival books because he thought it’d make him a better mentor. Survival books were boring, and sometimes, if Jehan was really lucky, they’d convince Grantaire to read something fun aloud, like The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood, from the Blue Fairy Book. 

Jehan didn’t know where Grantaire got the Blue Fairy Book from, but it was their favorite. It was old, with a blue cover, just like the title said. The pages smelled good and on the cover were flecks of gold that made a witch on a broom. It was Jehan’s favorite book and they were so happy when Grantaire brought it home after going somewhere on Capital business. 

“Fuck, did she die in the Games?” Bahorel mused his own hair, then rubbed his eyes. 

“She was ten,” Grantaire gritted his teeth as he climbed into bed next to Jehan. “I was fifteen, it is what it is.”

“She was ten?” Bahorel asked, even though Jehan could tell by the way Grantaire turned to face the wall, eyes already shut, that he didn’t want to talk about it. “Was she sick? So what, your parents lost one kid to illness and you don’t even live in 8 anymore?” 

“They’re all dead,” Grantaire sighed. 

“Were they all sick?” Bahorel asked. “Fuck, why didn’t you tell us?” 

“Why would I tell you?” Grantaire twisted and snapped his eyes open. “Was telling you going to bring them back to life? Do you have that kind of power?” 

Grantaire never told Jehan, either. Jehan never even thought to ask about Grantaire’s mom and dad. Most people in 8, if they weren’t married, lived with their mom and dad. Jehan didn’t know Grantaire’s whole family was dead, they just thought maybe they didn’t like him, just like Jehan’s family.

“Shit, withdrawal puts you in a pissy mood.” 

“Yeah, that and being asked about my dead family,” Grantaire pulled the quilt over his head which pulled it off of Jehan. That was okay though, because Jehan wasn’t cold. 

“But how did they die?” 

Bahorel didn’t know when to be quiet. Jehan shushed him, then wrapped both of their arms around Grantaire, over the blankets. “I missed you, it’s okay,” Jehan whispered. “You and me? Right?” 

When Grantaire said he didn’t have anyone, he must have really not had anyone. 

“Explains your fucked up attachment to Jehan,” Bahorel snorted, leaning back in the chair.

“You have no idea, Baz,” Grantaire sort of laughed and Jehan could already feel themself start to fall asleep. They were so tired, and Grantaire was right there. They were safe. 

“Missed you,” Jehan yawned one last time before finally slipping under.

Jehan slept all night, straight through.

It was so good to have Grantaire home. 

“I love you,” Jehan whispered. Grantaire was there, eyes open staring at the ceiling, his teeth grinding together. He didn’t look like he got any sleep, but maybe the detox made him look like that. Maybe he’d look like that from now on. 

“I know,” Grantaire sighed, like it was a burden. Maybe it was, Jehan didn’t know. All Jehan knew was that Grantaire never said it back. Grantaire didn’t love them back. 

Feuilly and Joly for sure loved Jehan. They said it all the time. Sometimes Feuilly would even lie and say Grantaire told him to say that he loved Jehan, but Jehan knew that was a lie. They were eleven and not stupid. 

The elevator doors dinged, and Jehan could hear it, even with the door to Grantaire's room shut. 

"Grantaire, it's Valjean."

Grantaire groaned in bed, and Jehan pulled the quilt up over their face to hide as the door opened. 

"I'm just here to check on you," Valjean said softly, softer than he usually was. "How are you feeling?" 

"Bad." 

"Fuck, did you bring home some Capital girl to your bed? Did you use?" 

Grantaire yanked the blanket off of them both, and Jehan covered their face with their hands to keep out the light. They were still tired. 

"Why is Jehan in bed with you?" It sounded like Valjean's mouth was closed, like he was angry. "I swear to God Grantaire, if you’re high-" 

"Fuck, Valjean!" Grantaire shot straight up and the bed jostled. "Really? You really think that? Honestly? I went straight home from the hospital and after you ransacked my apartment. You think somehow I scored and then I used in front of Jehan?" 

"What am I supposed to think?" 

Jehan didn't understand any of this. Grantaire got out of bed and they scrambled to take the discarded blankets and pile them back over their body. 

"I'm a shitty person, okay?" Grantaire said, even though he wasn't. "And I'm a shitty caretaker, but I would never. Jehan's like my fucking kid." 

Jehan smiled a little. They were like his kid. That made Grantaire their dad, and Grantaire was a good dad. He paid attention sometimes, but not always, just like the dads on Capital television. They came home from work, asked about school, then they went out and left the kids with their mom. And Jehan didn't have a mom, not a TV mom, but Grantaire could be their dad.

“Jehan, did Grantaire take any medicine?” Valjean asked. 

“How? Swallowing it or like with a needle?” Jehan asked and Grantaire made a frustrated noise, then covered his face with both hands. Was Grantaire mad? “He didn’t do any last night. We slept in bed.”

“You’ve used IV drugs in front of an elementary school kid?” Valjean pursed his lips and shook his head. “Really? I shouldn’t even be shocked you lied to my face. Didn’t you think of what that’d do to them?” 

“Jehan’s already fucked,” Grantaire groaned as Jehan peeked out from the blanket mountain. There were five blankets on Grantaire’s bed, just in case. Grantaire didn’t like to be cold, and being hot was worth being able to be next to Grantaire. “I wouldn’t pull some random kid off the street and do it.” 

“So you have used drugs in front of Jehan?” Valjean tapped his foot, he had shoes on, against the floor. “Not today, but in the past, you thought it was acceptable to be high in a child’s presence.” 

“He used to share,” Jehan said, hoping that would get Grantaire out of trouble. Valjean just looked more angry, and Grantaire turned toward Jehan, then put his finger to his lips. Jehan was supposed to be quiet.

“No, Jehan, tell me how he used to share,” Valjean sneered. “I can’t believe anyone would leave their fucking kid in your care. Jesus Christ, Rene.” 

“I used to get some of his medicine when I didn’t feel good. Bahorel gave me one last week, after the assassination,” they fumbled over the word. They never could properly say assassination, they just sounded like a snake hissing, “the assassination,” nope that wasn’t it, “after I got hurt.”

“Bahorel gave you morphling?” Valjean huffed. 

“Because I was hurt and wouldn’t stop crying,” Jehan explained. “That’s why he said I needed it.” 

“Do you want to take them?” Grantaire reached his hands toward the sky. “You and Javert can play house with Jehan and be perfect fucking parents, then I can sleep until it’s time for that fucking Victory tour.” 

“The Capital wants you sober,” Valjean stood close to Grantaire, almost too close. If it was Jehan, it wouldn’t have been too close, because Jehan was allowed to be as close to Grantaire as they wanted to be. “Maybe we send Jehan back with their mom.” 

“Tried that last year,” Grantaire slouched against the wall, his green t-shirt rumbled and stuck to his chest with sweat. “Right after we got in, after they torched my house. That bitch claimed she didn’t know a Jean Prouvaire.” 

“Do you have family in 8 Jehan? Someone else?” Valjean asked and Jehan didn’t. Jehan had Grantaire and Grantaire was trying to get rid of them. Grantaire didn’t even love them. 

Having to stay in 8 was so scary that Jehan didn’t feel like they could breathe. They needed to be with Grantaire, even if Grantaire didn’t really love them, at least Grantaire was there. At least Grantaire talked to them sometimes. 

“I have tried, Valjean,” Grantaire left the room, but Jehan could still hear him. He was probably going to leave and never come back though. He’d just go away forever. “Unless someone else in the building wants to take them, then it’s up to me.” 

Valjean left the room, too. Jehan was too afraid to move. “You can stay with me, until you have more sober time. It helps not to be alone. I’ll talk to Mr. Enjolras about Jehan. He’s very concerned about potential casualties among the surviving Victors. Maybe he has a solution.”

Maybe he’d just kill Jehan sooner. That’s what everyone wanted right? That would fix their problems. If Jehan didn’t exist, Grantaire wouldn’t have had to try to find somewhere new for them to live. If Jehan didn’t exist, Grantaire would be better off, wouldn’t he? Grantaire and Valjean were talking about them in the other room, because they were a problem. Jehan was a problem and they had finally been bad enough to warrant being abandoned. 

“If you can find a solution that’s not Jehan rummaging through the trash in 8 for food, let me know,” Grantaire shouted as he slammed the fridge. 

Jehan didn’t want to go back to 8. They summoned all their courage and slid out of bed, ignoring the tightness in their chest. They crept to the door, which was open, on their tiptoes, careful not to make any noise. 

No one would have heard them, not with the way Grantaire was crying. Valjean held him and shushed him, rubbing his back as Grantaire made noises like he really hurt. Jehan cried like that when they fell out of a tree, or when they were told that they had to sit away from everyone else. 

“You can’t save everyone, and we all know you tried,” Valjean hushed, and Jehan bit their lip not to make any sound. “You have to look out for you. You’re not in any state to care for anyone, especially not a child.” 

“I just want things to be better,” Grantaire whispered through loud sobs as Jehan ducked their head around the doorjamb. “For everybody, but especially for them.” 

“I know,” Valjean’s hand went in circles and he frowned. “You have to help you first.” 

How could Jehan help themself? They went up on their toes, then back down again, as they tried to think of things they could do. Maybe if they were better behaved they could stay. If they didn’t leave the fridge open and unfold all the towels, and never tore up paper into little pieces so Grantaire would have to vacuum or look at it until the avox came around, maybe then they could stay. They could do that. They could be good. 

Part of being good was not bothering Grantaire. That was the first step. If Jehan went to their room, then shut the door and read one of their books, maybe even a survival book, then they were good. Maybe Grantaire would just forget that they were here, and then they wouldn’t have to be sent off. He wouldn’t cry anymore, if Jehan was well behaved. 

First, Jehan made the bed. They smoothed all the blankets down, layering them so the quilt they made together was on top. Grantaire said that Jehan had helped with that, so if they just helped all the time, that would fix this. Jehan even fluffed the pillows, like the people in the movies did. Then they took Grantaire’s shoes, which were in the middle of the room, and put them by the closet. They were side by side with the toes touching the wall, just how magazines showed. 

When they were done tidying Grantaire’s room, once they were sure it was perfect, they snuck toward their room. Grantaire was still crying but Valjean wasn’t holding him, and it was a silent crying. His eyes were still read though and his shoulders shook, so Jehan could tell they were still sad. 

“I’ll figure something out. Being surrounded by murders is really no place for a kid, you know that.” 

Grantaire nodded, “I know. Let me make breakfast.” 

“There’s no food in the apartment,” Valjean’s voice was soft as Jehan shut their door. 

They cleaned their room, too. They folded their clothes, they straightened their shoes, and they put their toys in the box Grantaire made. Jehan had blocks that they painted, small wooden dolls to match each of the Victors including Jehan, because Jehan was supposed to be included. Clearly, they weren't. No one would ever send Joly away. They wouldn't even talk about it. 

All of Jehan's trucks, the little metal toys Feuilly brought home from the store, went in their own box, one that Feuilly made. Jehan had fifteen trucks, in all sorts of colors, all so Jehan would feel better. Jehan even had a magenta truck. 

They didn't put that one in the shoe box; the magenta truck, which was their favorite color, belonged on their bedside table. When they weren't playing with it, it was a decoration. It was their favorite truck. 

"Hey, kiddo, knock knock," Grantaire said outside their door. "Can I come in?" 

"Uh-huh." 

Jehan put their books on the shelf. They didn't belong on the floor, which was where Jehan left them. They must have pulled them off the shelves when they had a tantrum before they left for the base. They had tantrums a lot. Those were bad. Grantaire didn't like tantrums, neither did any of the other Victors. Jehan didn't like tantrums, either, but they couldn't control their feelings sometimes. 

"Oh, this is really nice," Grantaire said, closing the door behind him. "I've never seen you pick up on your own." 

If picking up was nice, then Jehan was nice. 

"So, I don’t know how much you heard,” enough, they heard enough, “but we’re going to spend a couple days with Valjean and Javert in their apartment.” 

“Both of us?” Jehan asked, looking at their bookshelf, not Grantaire. They didn’t want to see the look on Grantaire’s face if they had to stay in the apartment alone. They didn’t want Grantaire to see them get sad, either. 

“Yeah, both of us,” Grantaire laughed, but it wasn’t a real laugh, “I convinced Valjean to make pancakes for breakfast.” 

“With peanut butter?” Jehan turned to look at him, because they couldn’t be sad and talk about pancakes. They were going to stay with Grantaire, if they were good. That’s why they cleaned up their room. 

“However you want them.” 

“I want to stay with you,” Jehan said, before they could stop themself. They looked back at their bookcase, and decided they should organize the books by color. Jehan didn’t need to watch as his face twisted like that. 

“So you heard that,” Grantaire sighed. A lot of the books were brown, so they arranged those by height. If they were actively moving things, they couldn’t be expected to look back. “Of course you did.” 

“I want to live with you,” Jehan’s voice became frantic, as they slammed a heavy book onto the shelf without meaning to. “I can’t live in 8. They will hurt me, you know they will. The rebels will find me and they will kill me. They’ll send men in through the window or a lady with a boxcutter will chase me after school, and I’ll never be safe.” 

There was another knock on the door, a real knock, and then it opened before either of them responded. “We can come back to get your things after we eat.” 

These pajamas, the green nightgown with helicopters stitched into it, were gross. Jehan wore this nightgown for the last three days, because they were too tired to change and Bahorel didn’t make them. Grantaire didn’t make them either, and now Javert was going to say they looked sloppy, that was the sort of thing Javert said. Their hair had tangles and their nail polish was chipping, and Javert was going to be mean about it. 

“Jehan wants peanut butter on their pancakes,” Grantaire placed his hand on Jehan’s shoulder, “don’t you?” 

“Yes sir,” Feuilly told him that was polite. If he called Valjean and Javert sir, they wouldn’t be mad, and then Jehan could stay. 

“I think we can scrounge some up,” Valjean smiled. “Your cabinets are bare.” 

“I ate it all before the Games. Grantaire went away for a week, and then they were bringing food in for the tributes, so we didn’t have to buy anything. I stayed with Bahorel and Feuilly after our tributes tried to hurt me.” They’d forgotten to be polite. Valjean was frowning, “sir. I meant to say, sir.”

“You went away?” Valjean asked. 

“Yeah,” Grantaire waved his hand as they slung his other arm around Jehan’s shoulder. “It’s exactly what you thought happened. I went away for a week, maybe ten days. I thought I ordered groceries, but I guess I didn’t.” 

“You guess you didn’t,” Valjean sighed, “Rene.” 

“I know, I know,” Grantaire squeezed Jehan’s shoulder. “Look, I’m shitty, I get it.” 

“They deserve better. It’s not about you,” Valjean said as Grantaire spun Jehan toward the door. “A lot of it is about you, but this part,” Valjean looked at Jehan, still looking as upset as he always did when he saw Jehan, “this is truly awful. You understand that, don’t you?”

“Yes sir,” Jehan said. That was what they were supposed to say. 

“Shh, Jehan,” Grantaire led them through the apartment without shoes. Neither of them had their shoes on, but Valjean did. “I know, I said I know. I don’t know what you want me to say. What am I supposed to say?” 

“I want you to be honestly remorseful,” Valjean snapped as he pressed the button for the elevator. “But it isn’t about what I want. None of this is about me. I’m here because I can’t in good conscience let you go home from detox and sit in your own mess until you relapse.” 

They were going to Valjean’s apartment. Both of them, not just Grantaire. Jehan wasn’t going to have to spend the time in their room alone. They were going to eat pancakes in 10’s apartment. That’s where they were going. They were going with Grantaire.

“Stop, for fuck’s sake, I know,” Grantaire let go of Jehan as the elevator started to rise. “I need a fucking drink.” 

“We don’t keep alcohol in the apartment,” Valjean’s words were clipped as Jehan scrambled to hold Grantaire’s hand. “You’ll be fine.”

Grantaire shoved Jehan away, hard on the shoulder, because he didn’t want to hold hands. Jehan was supposed to be good, they weren’t supposed to do things Grantaire didn’t want. Valjean shot them both a look. 

“Sorry, I tripped,” Jehan looked down at their toenails. 

They didn’t have any polish at all. Usually they painted them, when they were alone, but they hadn’t really been alone for the whole week Grantaire was gone. Bahorel and Joly took turns sitting with them. Bahorel even painted Jehan’s fingernails, even though he did a bad job.

“You tripped,” Valjean shook his head. 

“I’m not lying; I tripped!” Jehan said, too loud, and they knew it was too loud. Good children didn’t talk this loud. “I’m sorry, it was an accident.” 

Disgust. Valjean was disgusted. With Jehan. Because Jehan couldn’t be soft like they were supposed to and they couldn’t even stand up straight. Grantaire hadn’t pushed them that hard. Even Joly would have been standing after a little tap like that, and he only had one foot.

“You don’t need to apologize, Jehan,” Valjean said as the elevator doors opened. 

That meant Jehan needed to be quiet.

Valjean and Javert’s apartment was cozy. Valjean sometimes burnt sage, which was a plant he said protected his home from evil. Javert once said Valjean would have to cleanse the apartment, under his breath, when Jehan visited. Jehan wasn’t supposed to hear him, but they did. 

Valjean didn’t want them here, and Javert wanted them here even less. They could tell. They exited the elevator and stood right to the left of the door, by a little skinny table and a mirror. Jehan’s hair was tangled, they looked sloppy. Javert was going to tell them that looking sloppy meant they weren’t taking pride in themself.

“We’re making pancakes,” Valjean said, shaking his head. Valjean didn’t look messy; his pants were pressed. “First things first.” 

“I’m going back to fucking bed,” Grantaire grumbled as he walked right past Jehan, through the living room and down the hallway to one of the tribute bedrooms. 

The tribute bedrooms were haunted; Jehan didn’t like to go into them. No one did. Jehan waited by the mirror, staring at themself. Jehan wasn’t going to go into a tribute bedroom. Even if they were still tired. Even if Grantaire was in one. Those rooms were cursed. 

"Jehan?" 

"Yes sir," that was what a good kid would say. 

Valjean exhaled, and then gave Jehan a very weak smile. "Valjean. You can call me Valjean, like everyone else." 

"Yes sir, Valjean."

"Do you want to help?" Jehan kept looking at their reflection, not at Valjean. If they were really going to be good, they would have looked at Valjean. "With the pancakes? You can whisk all the ingredients together, while I heat the skillet." 

Jehan had orange hair and green eyes. Their eyes were darker than their nightgown. Grantaire helped with their nightgown; he showed them how to embroider a helicopter, the first one, and Jehan did the rest. But that meant that Grantaire made it for them. They wouldn't have been able to do it without Grantaire. The arms were too tight, and the hem, the skirt part, was above their knees. This nightgown was too small, but Grantaire would notice soon, and he'd make a new one.

"Jehan?" Valjean whispered, then he touched Jehan's shoulder. "Can you hear me?" 

"Yes sir," Jehan stammered, looking back at their toes. 

"Do you want to help me?" 

"Okay," they needed polish. Purple would look nice, but so would green. Grantaire liked green, it was his favorite. Dark green, even darker than their eyes.

Jehan followed him to the kitchen, looking at their feet the whole time. The floor was cold. Maybe that's why Grantaire was in a bad mood. He didn't like the cold.

"So, I don't know how much you heard," Valjean said as Jehan stirred all the dry parts, sugar and salt and flour and cornstarch, together in a big bowl. "But do you have any family members you could stay with? Grantaire is sick, and I don't think you're safe with him." 

That was wrong. Maybe Grantaire was sick, if that wasn't just another lie, but Jehan was safe with Grantaire. Grantaire saved them. That made them safe. 

"I saw him push you." Jehan kept stirring and they stirred so fast that some of the powder flew over the side. "In the elevator, when you said you tripped." 

Jehan should have gone to one of the haunted bedrooms, and let themself get tormented by a ghost of some dead tribute. That would have been better than Valjean talking to them. Grantaire didn't push them; not on purpose. Grantaire didn't mean to hurt Jehan. 

"Let me add the eggs and milk," Valjean put his hand over Jehan's to make it stop moving. Liquid sloshed into the bowl, and then Valjean's hand was gone. 

Jehan went back to stirring. 

"So you like peanut butter on your pancakes?" Valjean asked. "Who showed you that?" 

"I did," Jehan smiled a little. "Grantaire used to make fry bread, in 8, and I like to put peanut butter on it." 

"I like fry bread, too," Valjean took the bowl from Jehan and started to pour little circles of batter onto the pan. "I like mine with jam or honey." 

Jehan liked jam and honey, too. They nodded and listened as the pancakes made little popping noises. Peanut butter was best because it kept them full for longer. 

Sometimes it was hard to guess when they would get to eat again. 

The pancakes, when they were cooked, were placed on a blue plate. Once the pan was empty, Valjean poured more. There wasn’t anything for Jehan to do except hold their own arms and wait. Once the batter was gone, Valjean fried eggs. He used the same pan, and didn’t wash it, he just added a pat of butter, then cracked six eggs right into the pan. 

The eggs sizzled and Jehan could hear their stomach rumble. 

“I’m going to set the table. Javert will join us for breakfast, he’s in the shower. I think Grantaire is still feeling a bit under the weather.” 

Under the weather. That was something people from 10 said when they meant sick. It meant they were getting rained on, even though there were other types of weather besides rain.

“Why is Jehan here?” Javert asked with a towel draped over his head. He ruffled his hair, then stood up perfectly straight. “Is Grantaire off on a bender? I’ll get dressed and go look for him. I swear, that boy. You can’t make him want this, Valjean. He has to want it.” 

“Grantaire is napping,” Valjean wasn’t smiling. No one was smiling, not even Jehan. Especially not Jehan. There was nothing to smile about, even if they were going to get pancakes with peanut butter and eggs. “He’s sober, I think.” 

“You think?” Javert asked as he slid into a chair. Jehan stood by the stove, waiting. They weren’t sure what they were waiting for, but they were waiting for something. 

“I think,” Valjean repeated. “I can’t test him. I don’t know. I’ve only seen Grantaire sober during his training, and it’s not like that’s the best time to gauge what someone’s like when they’re clean.” 

“So why do we have a child in our apartment, if he's clean?" 

"There's no food in 8's apartment. Besides Bahorel's had Jehan all week, and Feuilly is trying to get Combeferre to settle into a routine. So we made pancakes, Jehan helped." 

Jehan only stirred some stuff. Valjean didn't need Jehan to stir. He would have figured it out on his own.

Valjean and Javert started to eat as Jehan watched. Valjean ate half a pancake before he looked up to see Jehan, still standing by the stove, wishing they were back in their own apartment, with Grantaire. 

"Jehan, do you want something to eat?" Jehan nodded. "Come sit, I made you a place." 

Jehan ate all of their food, two pancakes slathered in peanut butter and two eggs with runny yolks, which they didn't really like, before Valjean finished the other half of his first pancake. 

"You'll choke. It's not going anywhere," Javert scolded as Jehan scrapped the peanut butter and egg yolk off their plate. "You're in the Capital; there's food here." 

"Jehan hasn't had consistent access to nutrition," Valjean's mouth was a thin line as Jehan chugged a cup of milk.

What Valjean meant to say was, Jehan sometimes didn't have food, that's what 'consistent access to nutrition' meant. He was using bigger words, twenty-five cent words, was what Grantaire called those but he didn't know why, so Jehan wouldn't understand, but they did. Jehan knew a lot of words, if not most of them.

"There's no reason for them not to have food," Javert's noise wrinkled as he grabbed his coffee mug. Grantaire liked coffee, too. Jehan thought it was too bitter, and they didn't need any help staying awake, anyway. "Grantaire gets a stipend." 

"Which he spends to support his habit." 

There were more pancakes in the middle of the table. It was not good manners to just take a pancake, not without permission, but with everyone so mad that they weren't sure that they'd let him. Instead, they folded their hands in their lap and stared at the stack. There were six left, so they could each have two more, if they didn't save any for Grantaire. They could each have one more and save three for Grantaire, if that's what Valjean wanted to do with his pancakes. 

"Jehan," Valjean smiled at them, "you seem tired. I know I woke you up early, do you want to take a nap? You can rest in Javert's room." 

Javert opened his mouth and held a hand in the air, but Valjean cut him off. "You wouldn't do this to Feuilly." 

"Feuilly is a good kid," Javert hissed. 

"Jehan, it's the second door on the right." That was the same room they had in 8's apartment. The layouts were all identical. "Don't be cruel," he whispered as Jehan took their plate to the sink. 

"Thank you for breakfast, sir," was that what they were supposed to say when it was two men? "Sirs." 

"You're very welcome," Valjean said as Jehan walked down a hallway that was just like theirs, but wasn't theirs at all. 

The room wasn't like theirs, either, not really. There was a bed, but there wasn't any toys. Jehan had two boxes of toys and Jehan had books. They had five stuffed animals and they had four blankets. This room had one blanket and two pillows on the bed, and not much else. This was how Jehan's room looked when they moved in from 8. 

They didn't sleep, but they closed their eyes and prayed that they wouldn't ever have to go back to 8 again.

Javert mostly avoided Jehan. It served them both, Jehan supposed. 

Valjean was nicer than he usually was. He went with Jehan to grab some of their things from 8's apartment, the Blue Fairy Book, a change of clothes that fit, their heavy blanket because Valjean said they didn't need all four, their box of trucks, and Dolly. 

They showed Valjean the wooden doll that looked like him, and explained how Feuilly painted all of their faces, then they showed him Javert's doll, which frowned up at them both from the palm of Jehan's hand. Feuilly said that Jehan needed a Javert doll, because underneath it all Javert was nice, even if he was a grump. 

Javert was only nice to Feuilly and Joly, and probably Valjean. 

“That’s a really funny toy,” Valjean laughed as Jehan lined their dolls up along the kitchen table. “Can I show him?” 

Valjean could do whatever he wanted. It wasn’t like Jehan would be able to wrestle Valjean to the ground. Valjean threw a tribute in his game against a forcefield, that’s how strong he was, and he was only sixteen when he won. Jehan wasn’t going to be able to stop Valjean, or anyone, besides maybe Joly. 

They could for sure stop Joly, but they’d feel bad about it. 

“You’re not usually so quiet,” Valjean sat across from them. He propped his head up with his hands and he rested his elbows on the table. “Is there anything you want to talk about?” 

“I don’t want to go,” Jehan whispered, moving the Grantaire doll so it stood next to the Jehan doll. Those two dolls always had to be together. It was the rules. 

Valjean nodded. He grabbed the Javert doll, with his little frown, and turned it over in his hands. He chuckled a little, but barely, as he looked at Javert. Feuilly did a good job on Javert, but Feuilly did a good job on all of them. They were all just two black eyes and smiley faces. Everyone but Javert was smiling, even Grantaire. And Grantaire hardly ever smiled anymore. 

“Do you want to play?” Valjean asked. 

No one ever wanted to play dolls with Jehan. They looked up, then looked at the dolls, then back at Valjean. Yes, they wanted to play dolls, but why was Valjean even talking to them? Was this a trap? How could playing with Valjean get them in trouble? Were they going to be sent away? 

“Who do you want to be?” Valjean smiled, for real this time. 

They wanted to be Jehan. They snatched their doll into the palm of their hand, so fast that Grantaire and Feuilly fell over. “Sorry,” Jehan said, standing Grantaire and Feuilly back up. They weren’t hurt, because they were just wood, but it felt bad still. 

“Can I be Grantaire?” 

Hesitantly, Jehan nodded. 

Valjean held up Grantaire in the air, then asked, “what kind of things do Jehan and Grantaire do?” 

Jehan shrugged their shoulders. Doll Jehan and doll Grantaire had all sorts of adventures, but they didn’t want to play Hunger Games with Valjean. Feuilly said it was mean to do that with anyone who actually had to play in the real life Hunger Games. 

Also, it wasn’t nice to pick a game they always won when they were going to play with another person. That’s why Bahorel didn’t put money on blackjack with Joly anymore. Joly gave him all the money back, because he said it didn’t feel right to keep it, and then Feuilly, beer in his hand, kissed Bahorel right on the lips and called him a fucking loser. 

Feuilly and Bahorel drank, but they didn’t drink like Grantaire. Feuilly and Bahorel never drank until they were throwing up in the toilet, not in front of Jehan. Bahorel drank until he took his shirt off, and Feuilly drank until he just wanted to touch Bahorel all the time. Joly didn’t drink at all, and Jehan wasn’t allowed to have any. 

“Why don’t we play house? Have you played house before? With your friends from school?” 

“I don’t have friends from school,” Jehan looked at their doll. Maybe doll Jehan had friends at school. Maybe they were more likeable. 

“Why not?” 

Because Jehan’s mom ran factories that killed people. Doll Jehan didn’t have a mom, so they could have friends. They were lucky. Valejan got out of his seat as Jehan wondered how much better doll Jehan’s life was. Nothing bad ever happened to doll Jehan, not for real.

“Here,” Valjean pushed a paper towel across the table. Jehan was crying. They didn’t mean to cry. “We don’t have to talk about that. We can just play. I’ll be Grantaire and you can be Jehan.” 

Jehan hastily wiped their face, doll still clutched in their hand. It was a gift, from Feuilly, for their eleventh birthday last June. All of the dolls were a gift for their eleventh birthday. Feuilly, Bahorel, and Joly ate cake with them, too. 

“Grantaire wasn’t at my birthday,” Jehan said, standing doll Jehan up on the table. “Why did you miss my birthday?” 

“I missed your birthday?” Valjean shook his hand as he made Grantaire talk, and it sort of looked like maybe Grantaire needed to use the bathroom. Adults, especially adults as old as Valjean, were very weird about playing. 

“Yeah, you missed my birthday,” Jehan scowled, but doll Jehan was smiling, because that’s all they ever did. They were always happy. Doll Jehan could only be happy, and that made them better than real Jehan. “Feuilly and Bahorel and Joly made me a cake, and we played Go Fish, even though, according to Bahorel, Go Fish is an insult to playing cards.” 

“Go Fish is an insult to playing cards?” Valjean laughed a little. “God, Bahorel is uptight.” He wiggled Grantaire again and said, “I’m sorry I missed it. I must have had something really important to do.” 

“You didn’t, that’s a lie,” Jehan was talking too loudly, almost screaming, “you said you were going to come and then you fell asleep on the couch! And I woke you up, and you said I’d have to go without you, because you were sick! And you weren’t! You’re a liar!” 

“I’m really sorry, Jehan.” 

“No! You’re not!” Now Jehan was yelling. “You fucking lied and you weren’t at my goddamn birthday party!” 

“Woah,” Valjean was talking to them like they were a horse, because that’s what they knew in 10, animals. Jehan wasn’t an animal, they were a person. “Steady now.” 

“No!” Jehan screeched. “No! No! No!” And before they knew it, they threw doll Jehan toward the fridge and then they were just screaming. 

They were supposed to be good, and this wasn’t good. They were hitting the table with their fists and all of the dolls, Feuilly and Bahorel and Joly and Valjean and even Javert, were falling onto the floor, and they couldn’t stop. They yelled and kicked their feet while Valjean watched, frowning. They were going to have to go to timeout because they weren’t behaving. Timeout was all alone, and then someone could hurt them. They needed to stop. 

Why couldn’t they stop? 

“Jehan, it’s time to quit,” Javert’s voice was rough and mean, just like he was. He was only nice to other people, not Jehan. 

They knew that. Everyone knew that. Jehan was being bad because Jehan couldn’t be good, even to stay safe with Grantaire. They couldn’t do it. They weren’t good enough. Jehan pounded the table again and Javert, without his uniform on, tried to grab their hand. 

Jehan did not like to be restrained. Everyone was supposed to know that. Those men had grabbed Jehan, and made it so Jehan couldn’t move, and no one else was ever allowed to do that. Especially not Javert who wasn’t even nice to them. They launched out of their seat, then balled their free hand into a fist and punched Javert in the stomach. 

Javert wasn’t a very good peacekeeper because he didn’t twist Jehan’s arm around, he just let it go, and then Jehan was standing on the table in their dirty green nightgown that didn’t fit anymore, shouting, “I’ll kill you! Don’t touch me! I’ll kill you! I’m not afraid!”

“Jehan, come off the table,” Valjean said, slowly. He was not soft though. “No one is trying to hurt you, you just have to stop yelling.” 

They could come off the table, but they needed a weapon, to protect themselves. Self defense, that’s what Bahorel said. Jehan needed to be able to defend themself, in case someone, like Javert, was coming to hurt them. Instead of going down toward Javert, which would have been stupid and left an opening for an attack, they bolted across the table and leapt onto the floor. They landed on their feet, then without dropping a stitch, they grabbed a shiny kitchen knife, a big one out of the sink. 

“Go away!” Jehan shouted, turning on their heel to look at Javert who was chasing after them. They stopped, because they weren’t stupid, either. “Get away from me!” 

Jehan nodded, holding the knife like Bahorel taught them. There was a right way to hold a knife and a lot of wrong ways. They jabbed it forward, as a warning, and Javert took a step back. 

No one was going to hurt them. Not Javert. 

“Jehan,” Feuilly was there, hands on his hips, and his voice was loud. “Put that shit down!” 

Jehan dropped the knife on the floor and it stuck into their foot, pointy side down. They didn’t even flinch. Feuilly was stronger than they were. If Feuilly wanted to hurt them, he would, knife or no knife. 

Feuilly gasped, then pushed Javert out of the way. “Not on yourself, you fucking idiot. Why aren’t you with Bahorel?” 

“Grantaire came home,” Jehan stared at the floor as their blood pooled on the tile. “Then we didn’t have any food, so Valjean made pancakes. Grantaire is sleeping; he still doesn’t feel good.” 

“Okay,” Feuilly knelt on the ground. He was already dressed, everyone was, except Jehan. “This might hurt, but I’ve got to take the knife out of your foot.” 

“It doesn’t hurt,” Jehan whispered. “I don’t feel it.” 

“That’s just adrenaline,” Feuilly explained as he grabbed the handle with both hands. “It’s going to hurt later.” 

“It doesn’t hurt now.” 

Feuilly pulled the knife out of their foot, and there was more blood. It wasn’t enough blood to die. Jehan wasn’t going to die until next year in the Games. They would have one more birthday party, and hopefully Grantaire wouldn’t miss it. The presents wouldn’t really matter, because training would start the next week, but they could at least play Go Fish and eat cake. 

“I don’t know what happened,” Feuilly placed the bloody knife in the sink, “but I’m going to take Jehan. They’re going to have a timeout.” 

Not a timeout. They shook their head back and forth as fast as they could. They didn’t want to go to timeout. They could try to be good again. They didn’t want to go to timeout. 

“I think that’s a good idea,” Valjean wrapped his arm around Javert, even though Javert didn’t even get hurt. Jehan didn’t even hurt either of them. Why were they holding each other? “I’m going to discuss with Mr. Enjolras alternative placements for Jehan.” 

Feuilly nodded, even though alternative placements meant that they were going to have to go back to 8, and live alone in a house, but not Grantaire’s house because it was burnt to the ground. Unless they were going to have to live in a burnt down house where the walls weren’t even all the way there anymore. It was impossible to lock a door when there weren’t even walls. 

“Do you want to do your timeout in Joly’s apartment alone, or in my apartment with Combeferre there?” Feuilly asked, like Jehan wasn’t just given the two worst options ever given to a person. They walked toward the elevator because Feuilly made them, and then when Jehan wouldn’t talk, when they could only cry, Feuilly pressed the button for 9. 

Feuilly wouldn’t talk to him when they were supposed to have a timeout, anyway. No matter how scared they felt, or how sad they were. Feuilly used to sit outside the door, and talk to Jehan until they calmed down, but not anymore. Feuilly didn’t like Jehan when they were bad, and they were bad all the time, so Feuilly just didn’t like them. 

“You can’t threaten people,” Feuilly was serious as the doors to Joly’s apartment opened. Joly wasn’t there because Joly lived with Bahorel. Joly never used his apartment. “Especially not peacekeepers.” 

“I don’t want to be by myself,” Jehan cried with their hands over their face. 

“Then don't threaten people,” Feuilly pointed toward the bedroom where Jehan was supposed to do time out. All the TVs in Joly’s apartment were unplugged and there weren’t any books, so it was just for punishment. Sitting on the couch was just as much of a punishment as being in a dark room all alone. “I’m going to go talk with Valjean while you calm down.” 

“I’m sorry,” Jehan whined as Feuilly kept pointing toward the hallway. “I’ll be good! I’ll be so good!” 

Feuilly held the open door button and pointed. 

“I’m bleeding,” Jehan pointed to their foot and their bloody footprints in the elevator, as they gasped for breath. 

“That happens when you drop a knife on your foot,” Feuilly nodded. “There's a first aid kit in the bathroom. Someone will come get you when timeout is over. I’m done talking.” 

Timeout was over whenever someone, not Jehan, decided it was over. Sometimes if Grantaire was sending them to timeout, it could last all night. Timeout, in times like that, ended with Grantaire waking up at noon and calling around the apartment for Jehan. Sometimes Grantaire just forgot they put Jehan in timeout. 

It seemed like when Jehan was quiet, they were easy to forget. 

“I don’t want to,” Jehan whined, then stomped their foot. That hurt, but they tried not to show it. They stomped it again. “I want to stay with you.” 

Feuilly was unmoved. 

Jehan tried begging, where they promised they’d be so good, that they’d be the best, but Feuilly didn’t even smile. Then they yelled. They yelled so loud that it rang in the elevator, and Feuilly didn’t wince, or anything. It hurt Jehan’s ears, even though they were the one yelling, but Feuilly just stood there, pointing. 

Eventually, Jehan gave up. They walked out of the elevator, and the doors shut. If they started their timeout, maybe it would end sooner. They limped through the apartment, dragging their hurt foot behind them, then went into one of the mentor bedrooms. They sat with their back to the door, like they always did, so they could watch the window to make sure no one was climbing inside. 

And they cried. They cried when there was light in the window, all the way until it was dark.

Someone would come get them when timeout was over.

Maybe this timeout was forever.

The sun rose twice, and Jehan was still in this room. They went to the bathroom, because that was allowed after the time they peed their pants because they thought that'd get them out of a punishment. It didn't, but it was worth trying. They drank water from their hands when they got thirsty. That’s how they drank when all the cups were dirty. Joly’s apartment didn’t have any cups. 

They were sorry for threatening Valjean and Javert with a knife. They knew it was wrong. They knew it was wrong before timeout, but now they really knew. They would try really hard to never do it again, and if Feuilly asked, they’d just say no, they’d never do it again. That was what they were supposed to say. 

“I’m sorry,” they practiced, lacing their fingers together in front of their knees. “I’m very sorry.” 

They watched the window, just in case, and said sorry. They were sorry. They didn’t want to be in timeout. Their stomach ached, and peanut butter pancakes kept them full for a long time, but now they were hungry again. 

When the sun went down for the third time, they decided that they were going to find someone. Three nights was enough time for a timeout. Jehan never had a timeout that long before. Not even when they threw a plate at the wall and Bahorel stepped on it. Bahorel got hurt when that happened, and this time, Jehan was the only one hurt. 

They whispered how sorry they were as they got into the elevator and pressed the button for 10. Valjean and Javert had food in their apartment, for sure, and Jehan was hungry. They waited by the mirror, just like before. It was rude to go into someone’s apartment uninvited. 

“Bahorel? Did you find him?” Valjean called from somewhere Jehan couldn’t see. “If he’s not dead, I’m going to kill him.” 

“I’m sorry,” Jehan said softly. They were sorry, but more importantly, they were hungry. “I’m sorry for when I tried to hurt you.” 

“Jehan!” Valjean rounded the corner and he looked like he was trying his hardest to be happy. “Where did you and Grantaire go? Is Grantaire with you?” He looked at Jehan’s nightgown, then at the scab that was red at the edges on the top of their foot. “Is it just you?” 

“I’m really sorry,” Jehan fought back tears. 

“Did you hurt Grantaire?” Valjean bit his lip as Jehan shook their head. “Okay, that’s good. Do you know where Rene is? Did he go and get you? Once Grantaire woke up-” Valjean looked at Jehan again and, self consciously, they pulled the hem of their nightgown down, “where have you been, Jehan?” 

“Timeout.” 

“With Feuilly?” Valjean raised his eyebrows, then looked down at Jehan’s foot. “This whole time?” 

“Timeout is in 9,” tears welled up in their eyes and they were not going to cry. They already cried so much that it made their head hurt. No one cared if they cried, it didn’t help anything. “I’m sorry.” 

“So you’ve been in timeout,” Valjean nodded slowly as he pressed his lips together, “for two days.” 

Jehan hoped it was long enough. Threatening Javert with a knife wasn’t even the worst thing they ever did. No one but Jehan got hurt. Nothing got broken. There wasn’t even a mess to clean up besides their blood on the floor. 

“I’m going to get Feuilly, why don’t you help yourself to a snack while you wait for me to get back.”

Oh, thank goodness. Jehan nodded with a smile, then limped toward the kitchen as Valjean went into the elevator. If they were getting something to eat, then timeout was over. They looked into the cabinets, and saw a mostly full glass jar of peanut butter, the same one they used for their pancakes. Jehan didn’t know what district peanut butter came from, but that was their favorite district, and therefore the most important.

Valjean and Javert had nice spoons that never accidentally got stuck in the garbage disposal. Jehan took one, one with a very long handle, and sat down at the table, scooping peanut butter out of the jar and into their mouth. It was rich and sticky, and they just kept adding more, before they could even swallow. 

Swallowing was like trying to calm down while crying, it felt impossible. Jehan considered getting some milk. Milk and peanut butter always went together, and last time Jehan was here, the milk hadn’t been bad. 

Jehan couldn’t reach the cups, so they drank the milk straight from the plastic carton. It was completely full, like Valjean just got new milk. The stores in the Capital always had milk, but sometimes Grantaire said they couldn’t get any. 

Feuilly and Bahorel never told them no at the store, not with milk. Not unless they said they already had milk at home, and they didn’t need a whole gallon. They could always come back for more milk, according to Bahorel. Jehan could even pick out one treat, if they didn’t throw a fit. 

They didn’t get a treat very often.

Once, the first time Feuilly and Bahorel took them to the store, Jehan’s tantrum wasn’t really bad. They just whined a lot, and they didn’t throw anything or hit anyone. It was annoying according to Bahorel, and Bahorel was the one who said that they weren’t going to get anything/ Feuilly would snuck a little into the cart for Jehan; Jehan really liked trucks. It made Bahorel and Feuilly fight, because if Grantaire wasn’t going to teach Jehan manners, the two of them should at least be on the same page. Bahorel had a book about parenting, and sometimes he yelled things from the book at Feuilly, especially when Jehan was in trouble.

Feuilly and Bahorel gave them back to Grantaire during the day, after enough of those fights. Feuilly never said Jehan was bad, but Bahorel did. And then Jehan only got to come over for three hour segments to play with Joly, or when Grantaire was there. Bahorel set a timer, and when it beeped, Jehan had to go into the elevator, even if they were in the middle of a game.

Jehan opened the milk at the top, careful not to rip it, then took a swig straight from the carton. It was cold and sweet and helped loosen the peanut butter from the roof of their mouth. They ate and drank as fast as they could, alternating peanut butter and milk, before Valjean could come back and say snack time was over. 

When he did come back, Jehan was on the dregs of the milk and scraping the side of the jar with their spoon to get the last bits. 

“Jehan!” Feuilly said, rushing over to the table. Valjean was behind him, looking at the milk and peanut butter, but not saying anything. “Did Grantaire not come get you? He was supposed to take you back to 8 after he showered.”

"I left timeout," Jehan said as they put the last spoonful, not even a spoonful, of peanut butter into their mouth. "Am I in trouble?" 

Valjean did not answer their question. He instead asked his own question. No one liked when Jehan did that, but maybe that rule was only for Jehan. "Did you eat all of the peanut butter?" 

"Uh-huh." 

Valjean lifted the mostly empty carton of milk, and his eyes went wide, "and you drank a half gallon of milk." 

"Uh-huh." 

"And that's a snack?" 

"Yeah," Jehan nodded and it made them feel a little bit sick to their stomach, so they stopped. "I was hungry." Valjean and Feuilly stared, and Jehan felt like they had to keep explaining, "there's no food in timeout. I just sit there and cry and make sure no one comes in the window and cry. If I have to go back, I want to go back full."

“Of course,” Valjean nodded slowly as Jehan’s stomach started to hurt, “there’s no food in time out and you’ve been in time out for, what was it, two days? Did you wake up and think you were still in time out? Is that how long your timeouts take?” 

“I didn’t go to sleep,” Jehan whispered. “Grantaire wasn’t there, I couldn’t sleep.” 

“Please go to sleep,” Feuilly smoothed back his hair, which still was not in braids, even though braids were the best kind of hair. Jehan’s hair wasn’t in braids, but that’s because Bahorel wasn’t any good at braiding and then he kept trying to get Jehan to sleep. They didn’t like to sleep in their braids. “If I take you to my apartment, will you sleep?” 

“Is Grantaire there?” Jehan asked as their stomach gurgled. 

They noticed a bunch of spit in their mouth, and then they were throwing up all over Valjean’s table. It was mostly milk, with thick globs of peanut butter. It made their eyes water, and it stunk, but they couldn’t stop. They thought it was over, once the milk was spilling off of the table and onto the floor, but then they gagged again, and there was more milk. 

The milk mess dripped onto the floor, as Valjean and Feuilly looked at them, eyes wide and mouths open. They heaved a few more times, and nothing came out, that’s how they knew it was done. They turned their chin toward their shoulder and wiped their mouth on their nightgown, which had some puked milk on the front. The milk was still mostly cold, too.

“Is Grantaire in your apartment?” Jehan used their bare forearm to get any leftover mess their nightgown didn’t take. “I’m really tired. I want to go to bed.” 

“What if you slept by me?” Feuilly looked at the milk that was on the floor, so did Valjean. “You can take a shower first. Does your stomach still hurt?” 

“Sorta,” Jehan shrugged. “You’re not Grantaire though. I can’t sleep without Grantaire.” 

“We could try though, huh?”

Jehan grabbed a stray strand of hair that drifted in front of their face, then ran their fingers down it, wincing a little when it came back slimy. Usually, if they had to throw up, they pulled their hair back. Usually, they didn’t throw up though. 

“I don’t want to go back to timeout.” 

“And you won’t,” Feuilly held out his hand, and let Jehan grab him, even though they were sticky with sweat and vomit. Their wet gown clung to their stomach and stuck to their thighs. “Did you disinfect your foot?” 

“No,” Jehan, unsteady, leaned against Feuilly, who didn’t complain that Jehan was gross, even though they were. “I’m so tired.” 

“I bet. Tell Valjean bye, okay?” 

 

“Bye,” they didn’t wave their hand, like they normally would have. They didn’t even smile. 

Valjean wasn’t looking at them anyway. They were unspooling a whole roll of paper towels and throwing them in wads onto the floor. 

“Am I in trouble for making a mess?” Jehan’s eyes sagged shut as they waited with Feuilly for the elevator. “I don’t want to be in trouble.” 

“No, you’re not in trouble. Don’t ever do that fucking shit again, but you’re not in trouble.” 

Jehan wasn’t sure exactly what that fucking shit was, but Jehan would do thier best not to repeat their mistake. They gagged again as the elevator lurched upward. They were going to Feuilly’s apartment, 11, where Feuilly didn’t even live. Feuilly lived with Bahorel, just like Joly. 

“Did you find him?” Joly asked before the door was even open enough to see anything. “Did Javert find him?” 

“Found Jehan,” Feuilly put his hand on the small of Jehan’s back to guide them out of the elevator. They could have done that on their own, but they were tired and it was nice to be reminded to walk. 

“We were looking for Jehan?” Combeferre asked. 

No. Jehan scrambled to grab Feuilly, even though they were drenched in vomit, because they did not want to see Combeferre. Combeferre wanted them to be hurt so he could finish the job. He was like a wolf, Jehan read those lived in 7, and they would find a weak animal and chase them until they just dropped dead or they could rip into them with their teeth. 

Jehan was not a weak animal; they were just tired. 

"I thought we were,” Feuilly sighed. “Grantaire didn’t take them with, apparently.” Feuilly grabbed Jehan in his arms, even though their nightgown smelled like milk and peanut butter and was messing up their grey t-shirt, and smoothed down their hair that was icky, brushing it off their forehead. 

“I want to go back to 9,” Jehan whispered in Feuilly’s ear as he walked through the living room. “I don’t want to be here.” 

“You don’t,” Feuilly said as he opened the door to the bathroom. “I know you don’t. You hate to be alone.” 

Yeah, Jehan hated that. But they hated being with Combeferre more, probably. Combeferre made them feel scared, and it was different than being alone in an apartment without any food, but it wasn’t that different. It was still fear, and there were only so many ways to be afraid. 

“Can you shower?” 

Jehan nodded, “guard the door?” 

“Sure,” Feuilly nodded. Feuilly never complained when Jehan asked for things like that, he just said yes or no. He didn’t ask why, he just said if he was going to do it or not. Jehan liked lots of things about Feuilly, but that was one of their favorites. 

Jehan’s blinks were too long, which happened when they got tired. That, according to Bahorel, meant that they were exhausted, not just regular tired. There were so many words for tired. Joly, when he was tired, said he was pooped, which was gross but also funny. Feuilly said he was fucking tired, because when he was worn out, he wasn’t very creative.

Grantaire slept all the time and was still somehow beat, that’s what he called it. 

Jehan peeled off their nightgown, and then sat in the tub and let the spray from the shower hit them in the face. They poured too much shampoo into their hand before they realized it wasn’t Feuilly’s shampoo. It didn’t smell like anything. That was most of the fun of shampoo.

At least it was still bubbly. 

Jehan couldn’t run their fingers through their hair because it was so knotted, not even with shampoo in it when it was wet. Hopefully Feuilly could help, but maybe he couldn’t. Maybe he’d be too busy for the rest of forever and no one would ever find Grantaire who was missing somewhere and Jehan’s hair would have to be like this forever and they’d have to wear their nightgown even though it was covered in milk and peanut butter and stomach acid. 

Where was Grantaire? How did no one know where he was? Did he run away? Jehan didn’t think it was possible to go places where the Capital couldn’t find you, even if they knew they could play the recorder or yell when Feuilly, Bahorel, and Grantaire wanted to talk about something that wasn’t allowed. Did Grantaire just block all the cameras? How did he find all the cameras? 

Jehan’s fingers and toes were wrinkled and that meant it was time to get out of the bath. Grantaire told them, when they were little, that the wrinkling meant that they were slowly turning into a fish, and if they didn’t get out soon they’d grow scales. Scales seemed kinda cool, but not on their fingers where they had to touch stuff. 

Now face scales, they’d like that. Especially if they were shimmery, like a pretty fish. Orange scales would match their hair, but blue scales would be cool, so would silver. Really, Jehan would take any kind of fish scale on their face. 

Right now ladies in the Capital painted their eyelids like scales in shimmery blues, greens, and purples and wore dresses that were tight all the way to the bottom and sparkled in the light. When Jehan said they wanted one, Bahorel said that they were not allowed to dress like a hooker. Feuilly did put makeup on their eyelids, but only for inside the apartment. He said he didn’t want anyone getting ideas and Bahorel agreed. 

Grantaire was sleeping on Bahorel’s couch, but he probably would have let Jehan wear one of those dresses to the park if they asked. 

“Feuilly,” Jehan yawned, wrapped in a towel. They didn’t have any clothes and they weren’t going to put their nightgown back on, not as disgusting as it was.

“Yeah, buddy?” 

They were buddies. Buddy was also a name sometimes, but when Feuilly, Joly, and Bahorel said it, it meant that they were friends. 

“My pajamas are dirty.” 

“Do you want to borrow some of Combeferre’s? The Capital sent him a nightgown he’ll let you wear, I bet,” Joly giggled. “It’s really soft.” 

“That’s lingerie,” Feuilly hissed, “they’re not fucking wearing that.” 

“You said it was for sleeping, and Jehan likes dresses. It’s very pretty. It’s black, but it sort of shines in the light.” 

Jehan liked things that were pretty, even if they were Combeferre’s.

“It’s not mine to loan out, anyway.”

“Well, I saw you wearing it with Bahorel three nights ago.”

Joly was so silly. “If Feuilly wore it three days ago, then I can’t wear it,” Jehan laughed a little. “Especially if he wore it with Bahorel. Lingerie is for adults to have sex. That would be gross.”

A couple times, when Jehan still watched the channel with Grantaire and Bahorel they were not supposed to watch, they saw advertisements for lingerie. They used words like erotic and sensual to describe the fabric, and when Jehan tried to use those words to describe their fry bread when Grantaire asked how it was, Grantaire yelled so loud and then slapped Jehan in the face. 

Jehan was not supposed to talk about things being erotic or sensual. They knew that now.

“Oh!” Joly exclaimed. “Oh! Well, maybe you can have something different, Jehan.” 

The door opened and Feuilly’s hand dropped a pair of pajamas, burnt orange ones with light blue zig zags they stitched themselves all down the pants. The top had yellow polka dots on the sleeves and dark green smiley faces on the front. Their underwear was just plain underwear because Grantaire said they did not need to decorate those. 

Jehan thought that was boring, but it was fine. 

“Jehan,” Feuilly grabbed their shoulder and pulled them aside, like they were in trouble. 

Feuilly said they weren’t in trouble before they took their shower. 

“Jehan,” he repeated. Maybe Feuilly lied. “Who taught you about all that stuff?” 

“What stuff?” They knew a lot of things. 

“Who told you what lingerie was?” Feuilly stared right into their eyes and was frowning. “You are not in trouble.” 

It sure seemed like they were in trouble.

“I saw it on TV.” 

Feuilly pulled his face down then shook his head. “You know you don’t have to lie to me, right? I can talk to Bahorel about it, and Bahorel can talk to me, and if you need someone to talk to about that kind of," he faltered, like he forgot a word, "hurt, you can talk to us, okay?” 

Lots of people hurt Jehan, but they didn’t feel like talking about it. Not when they were so tired. 

“You can talk to me, okay?” 

This meant Jehan was supposed to talk about someone who hurt them. Fine, if that’s what Feuilly wanted, they’d talk about Combeferre and his stupid hands that wrung their neck and made it hurt to breathe for two days. Since Combeferre was Feuilly’s new best friend and Jehan wasn’t. 

“Combeferre,” Jehan touched their neck, which wasn’t bruised anymore, “he hurt me.” 

“How did he hurt you?” Feuilly looked up at the ceiling like he wished the building would collapse. “You two have never even been alone.”

Feuilly was so indoctrinated, which meant brainwashed, by Combeferre, that he didn’t even remember all of them having to pull Combeferre off of them. Combeferre was going to kill Jehan, and now Feuilly didn’t even seem to care. They glared and did their best not to show their teeth, because that was not respectful and they were not a hissing cat, according to Bahorel.

“Oh, you mean in the car. We’re talking physical hurt, thank fuck,” Feuilly sighed and his shoulders fell. “He’s really sorry about that, and he’s really sick right now,” Feuilly frowned. “He didn’t mean to hurt you.” Jehan didn’t understand how Combeferre could accidentally put his hands on someone’s throat. “After you win, it’s really hard, for a little while. He’s going to get better, okay?” 

Jehan nodded because they were supposed to, not because they believed Feuilly. Combeferre could never get better and Jehan wouldn’t even be sad. 

“So I was thinking you could sleep on the couch, just while Joly and I wait for Bahorel and Grantaire.” 

“Grantaire is missing?” Jehan yawned as Feuilly pointed toward the couch that already had a blanket and a pillow. “Is he okay?” 

“We’re looking for him.” Feuilly said, which was not a yes. “I’m going to sit on the floor, while you fall asleep, but then I’m going to go talk with Valjean. Joly will be here the whole time, I promise.” Joly wasn’t any good for protection. “You really need to sleep, okay? Do you want a cup of apple juice? Do you think it’ll make you sick?” 

“I ate too much, that’s why I got sick,” Jehan explained slowly as they stretched out on the couch. It was very comfortable and they liked that all the lights were on. “I was hungry.” 

“Yeah, Valjean said that sometimes there wasn’t food in your apartment,” Feuilly sat on the floor, just like he said he would, with his back facing Jehan. He was keeping watch. “Next time you don’t have food, I want you to come tell me.” 

“I’m not supposed to bother you and Bahorel without permission,” Jehan’s eyes were closing and they wouldn’t open back up. “You and Bahorel said. I’m bad so it’s a rule.”

“Well, we have a new rule, okay? And the new rule is you come find me if there’s no food in your apartment.” 

Jehan could live with that.

Feuilly, Bahorel, and Valjean were holding Jehan down. That was the first thing they recognized. Second, they weren’t in their own apartment; they must have fallen asleep on Feuilly’s couch. They were so tired, and sometimes their body fell asleep without their permission. 

“It’s just a nightmare,” Feuilly said loudly as Jehan stopped thrashing. They had been thrashing, even if they didn’t realize it at first. They had been screaming too, so they stopped. “Jehan, calm down, it’s okay.” 

They blinked, all the lights were on and they hurt their eyes. Jehan was not supposed to stare into lights, Grantaire told them that. 

“How long did they sleep that time?” Bahorel asked, letting go of Jehan’s arms. “Two hours?” 

“Almost four,” Feuilly said, like that was a thing to be proud of and not half the amount of sleep Grantaire told them they were supposed to get. He didn’t let go of Jehan’s shoulders, but he stopped putting weight on them. 

“What happened in your nightmare, kiddo?” Valjean was using a pet name which was uncommon. Jehan tried to sit up, and after two failures, Feuilly let them. “Did someone try to hurt you?” 

Someone was always trying to hurt Jehan. 

“I don’t remember,” which was the truth. Jehan didn’t remember which nightmare it was.

“You woke up at the base, too,” Valjean said. “Even when you had Grantaire.” 

Jehan hadn’t realized they woke everyone up when they all had to sleep in bunk beds. Maybe that’s why everyone seemed mad at them. 

Where was Grantaire, anyway? 

“You wanna try to get back to sleep?” Bahorel asked, hands in his pockets. 

Everyone was still dressed in their daytime clothes, even though it was dark out. The streetlights outside the patio only came on when it was nighttime. Grantaire said they were on a timer, or a circuit, or a sensor. Something that 3 made controlled the lights here, that’s all Jehan knew. 

“I’m gonna turn in,” Feuilly sighed. That’s how people from 11 said sleep. Feuilly was the only person from 11 Jehan had ever met, but when Jehan asked, Feuilly claimed it was normal. “Do you want that juice?” 

“Yes,” Jehan was so hungry. They didn’t feel like they were going to puke at all, they just felt hungry. “Can I come with you?” 

“It’s not normal to want to be in bed with grown men, Jehan,” Bahorel scolded and Valjean nodded. “Nothing is going to get you. Monsters aren’t real.” 

“Someone could pull me out through the window with a knife to my throat,” Jehan looked toward Feuilly. He would let Jehan be next to him. He always did. It wasn’t worth trying to convince Bahorel and Valjean, they’d never believe them.

“That’s not going to happen,” Valjean was a liar. “That doesn’t happen to people outside of movies, Jehan.” 

“It already happened,” Jehan snarled. “You don’t know what’s going to happen because you don’t know anything. Grantaire’s house was burned down and my mom lives in the Capital and my dad is the Game Maker and you want me to go back to 8. You want to send me away.” 

“Hey! No one is sending you away,” Bahorel’s voice was low and threatening. “No one is sending you anywhere.” 

“Well, they can’t stay with Grantaire,” Valjean snapped. “The apartment didn’t have a scrap of food. Nothing in the pantry. It looked like someone licked the bag of flour.” 

“I didn’t lick it,” Jehan wasn’t gross. “I licked my finger then stuck my finger in the bag.” They had manners. “You can’t lick a bag unless you cut it open and Grantaire threw all the knives in the trash because he didn’t want me to touch them.” 

They did have tiny sewing scissors, but they wouldn’t hurt anyone unless Jehan stabbed really hard. They were blunted and that’s why Jehan could keep them.

“Oh, Jehan,” Bahorel frowned, “why didn’t you tell us?” 

Jehan wasn’t aware it was anything to tell.

“They cannot stay here,” Valjean said and Jehan hated him. Jehan hated him so much. He probably poisoned the milk and that’s why they threw up everywhere. It was all Valjean’s fault. Grantaire was probably just trying to get away from him, because he was so overbearing and terrible to be around.

“I am this close to fixing it, so let’s just,” Bahorel looked at Feuilly then at his fingers that were almost touching, “let’s,” he trailed off, “Jehan can stay with one of us, at least until I figure out a way to exempt them from the Games,” 

“Exempt?” If Jehan didn’t have to play, then they’d be safe. Well, safe from being attacked by a bigger kid, not from the rebels. It’d be one less type of nightmare, which would be nice. “Really?” Jehan tried not to get too excited. 

“Yeah, really,” Bahorel nodded, “you’re my buddy, little dude.” 

Dude was for boys, but Bahorel also called a lady who was judging his boxing match with Feuilly on TV a dude, so for Bahorel, dude was for everyone. He wasn’t trying to hurt Jehan’s feelings. He hadn’t tried to hurt Jehan’s feelings in a long time, since before Combeferre’s game. 

“Let me get you something to drink before bed. Drink slowly,” Feuilly sighed as he walked away from the couch. “You don’t have to chug the damn juice.” 

Jehan would be good, and wouldn’t. Jehan was going to maybe get Capital citizenship, which their parents said wasn’t even possible. They lied, and Bahorel was going to do it because he loved Jehan and Jehan’s parents didn’t. 

The apple juice was sweet and cold and came in a plastic bottle. It was only enough for one person, unlike the big bottles Bahorel bought. He drank those from the bottle, even though it was a lot of juice, and Joly and Feuilly said it was gross. Jehan thought it was cool for Bahorel to be able to drink as much juice as he wanted. 

Jehan drank it all in one long drink because they couldn’t help themself. Bahorel laughed a little as he took the empty bottle from Jehan’s hands. “I’ve got to go, but you’ll be good for Feuilly, won’t you?” 

Jehan yawned as Bahorel turned and kissed Feuilly on the cheek. Feuilly ducked his head, embarrassed of the attention, but he liked it. He liked to be kissed by Bahorel, that’s why they did that sort of stuff all the time. Feuilly squeezed Bahorel’s shoulder as he left the room, saying goodbye.

“We got all your things,” Valjean said with a soft smile gracing his face. He was lovely, when he wanted to be. He was very kind to Feuilly and Joly, and Jehan wished Valjean could be kind to them, too. “Your dolls, books, clothes; all of it is in Feuilly’s spare room, okay? You’re going to stay here, until we sort something out.” 

“I don’t want to go back to 8. It’s not safe.” 

“I know,” Feuilly’s hand was heavy on Jehan’s shoulder. “But we don’t know where the best place for you is. Maybe it’s here, in this apartment, but maybe you should be in 2 or with Valjean in 10.” 

“Valjean doesn’t want me in 10. He doesn’t even like me.” 

“I like you,” Valjean did not sound very sure. “Let’s not worry about the future. We can burn that bridge when we get to it.” 

That wasn’t how the saying was supposed to go, so Jehan laughed. “That’s a malaphor. You mixed up your idioms.” 

Feuilly looked at them like they grew a second head. 

Valjean chuckled in surprise, “I’m sure it is, whatever those things are.”

“A malaphor is just a messed up saying,” Jehan loved to explain things to people. They were good at it. “You combined two sayings about bridges, and that’s a malaphor. And idioms are sayings that don’t make a lot of sense until you learn them, like under the weather, which you say sometimes, even though not all weather is bad but being under the weather is always a bad thing.” 

“A malaphor,” Feuilly repeated, nodding slowly. “Fuck, the schools in 8 must be good.” 

“I haven’t gone since I was 9. Grantaire made me stay home because someone tried to stab me, and a different person, a kid, punched me in the face and the teacher didn’t do anything because my family killed her daughter, I think.” 

“Your parents kill people?” Feuilly looked toward Valjean, then back at Jehan. “Mrs. Prouvaire, the bitch who watches the Games with us every year? She fucking kills people? She couldn’t fight her way out of a wet paper bag, are you shitting me?” 

“Yeah, Mr. and Mrs. Prouvaire,” because they weren’t Mom and Dad, what were they supposed to call them, they didn’t know, “own the factories and they don’t pay people very much and they don’t fix the buildings when they get broken or keep the sprinklers working. So they catch on fire or collapse with people inside so everyone hates me. Even Enjolras, Grantaire’s dumb finance, who lived across the street from me, didn’t like me, and his dad is a Game Maker and that’s where they got all their money from. And the peacekeeper factory. His mom never liked me, either, but probably because her husband cheated on her with my mom.” 

Valjean leaned down close to Jehan’s face. “We can’t talk about Jean Enjolras. It will get us all in trouble. He ran away, so he doesn’t exist.”

“Fine by me,” Jehan shrugged. He barely even liked Jehan anyways, and Jehan was really little. And Jehan said they didn’t have any friends and Enjolras pretended they didn’t care even though they didn’t have any friends before, either. Jehan was the first person who wanted to be Enjolras’ friend but he was too good for them.

“Are you tired?” Feuilly looked at the ceiling, not at Jehan. “I’m going to sleep on the floor in your room tonight. Does that sound good?” 

“Can I read you a story?” Jehan asked. Bahorel and Grantaire could read Jehan stories, but they had to read the story to Feuilly and Joly. Feuilly would try, but he’d quit and get mad halfway through unless the book was really easy. And all the easy books were boring. “Do you have the Blue Fairy Book?” 

Feuilly pulled Jehan up with both hands, and nodded, “we grabbed everything that was yours from your bedroom.” 

The Blue Fairy Book, and their whole bookshelf, with all of the books and everything, was in the room, as were their toy boxes and their blankets. Jehan couldn’t help but smile when they saw it. “I’ll read you Hansel and Grettel.” 

“Is that one your favorite?” Feuilly asked as he pulled one of the blankets and a pillow off of Jehan’s bed. “I might fall asleep.” 

“That’s the point of a bedtime story,” Jehan laughed, stepping over Feuilly onto their bed. “I like Hansel and Grettel, because, well I won’t spoil it, but everyone gets to eat a lot.” 

“Yeah, eating a lot is fun,” Feuilly’s head tilted toward Jehan from where he was laying on the floor. “There was a time, before the Games, when I didn’t have enough food to eat, and it made me worry. I'm sorry if you,” Feuilly paused as Jehan opened their book, flipping through until they found the right story, “I’m sorry I didn’t realize things were bad.” 

“Things are good, though. Once Grantaire comes back, if I get to stay, things will be really good again. I see Joly like every three days, so I never have to spend that much time alone. And we spent a really long time in those bunk beds and I was never alone then.”

“Yeah, we were certainly never alone,” Feuilly’s words turned into a yawn and Jehan could see all of the teeth in his mouth. “Hansel and Grettel, huh? I don’t know this one.” 

“It’s very exciting,” Jehan said, before they started to read. 

They read slowly, enunciating the words carefully, and sometimes explaining what things meant. Jehan gasped at the appropriate places and added in commentary, like how the step mother was a bitch and so was the witch who deserved to be robbed. They also said that Hansel and Grettel should have killed their dad when they got back, because he was a cunt for not making sure they were safe. Instead they gave him a bunch of money, and that was frankly, bullshit.

“You know you can’t kill them, right?” Feuilly’s voice was heavy with sleep. 

“Yeah, they’re just pretend,” Jehan knew that. Jehan was eleven and not stupid. 

“No, I mean, you can’t kill your parents,” Feuilly sat up a little, “it’s not okay to kill people.” 

“You killed three people.” Jehan hadn’t even killed one. 

“I did,” Feuilly’s voice sounded far away even though he was right there, “the right choice is to not kill people.” 

“You would have died if you didn’t kill anyone,” Jehan didn’t understand. “I’d be sad if you were dead.” 

“Right, that was self defense,” Feuilly sighed. “Just don’t, please don’t try to kill anyone.” 

Jehan could listen to Feuilly, they guessed. “If I go into the Games, I’m going to kill people. I want to come home.” 

“Right, but Bahorel is going to convince them, I think. If anyone was going to convince them, it’s Bahorel.” Feuilly explained as Jehan closed the book and put it on the bedside table. “Outside of the Games and self defense, you can’t kill people. It’s wrong.” 

“How is he going to convince them?” Jehan knew Bahorel was special, but they didn’t know how he was going to save them. Grantaire made it seem like no one could save them. He explained it as kicking the can down the road, so Jehan could die at 12 instead of 10 when those men burned their house down.

“Combeferre thinks he found a loophole in the system. Since Bahorel is from 2, if he adopts you, he can get residency for you, too. Combeferre been reading these huge law books Bahorel dropped off last week, I don’t know. Mrs. Prouvaire has got a, uh, a visit with me next week, so I think I'm going to just bring Bahorel and the paperwork and offer to make it free.” 

“Why are you visiting my mom?” 

None of this made sense. Why was Combeferre involved in trying to help them? Why couldn’t Grantaire adopt them? Why did their mom need to do anything? Why couldn’t she get them out of it? Did she even care? 

They knew the answer was no, but sometimes they liked to pretend this was all a big misunderstanding. It wasn’t though. She left them alone on purpose. They knew that, and pretending it was anything else was lying. 

“Uh, it’s a work thing,” Feuilly stammered. “It’s time for bed. Do you want the light off?” 

“Light on,” Jehan pulled their blanket up to their chin, then remembered to be polite, “please. Goodnight, Feuilly. I love you.” 

“Goodnight, Jehan, love you, too.” 

Feuilly always said it back. Jehan really loved that about Feuilly.

It was not Jehan’s fault that they punched Combeferre right in the nose. It wasn’t, and just because Bahorel thought it was, and Joly agreed with him, that didn’t make it true. Combeferre started it by sneaking up behind them when they were half asleep trying to make their breakfast. 

And really, it was bad manners to take a piece of bread from someone else’s plate. Those were Jehan’s bread, and they wanted them back. So they took them, and then Combeferre, who was mean and not polite at all, snatched the bread back. 

It was clear that Jehan had to defend themself. 

“We don’t fucking hit people,” Bahorel snarled, wrenching Jehan’s arm as he dragged them toward the elevator. “What part of don’t hit don’t you understand? Are you stupid?” 

Jehan wasn’t stupid. That was self defense. 

“Tell me, are you stupid?” Bahorel repeated as Jehan watched Combeferre rub his nose. It wasn’t even bleeding. Jehan should have hit him harder. 

“No,” Jehan pulled at their pajamas as shame burned on their face. They weren’t stupid.

“It seems like you’re fucking stupid, Jehan,” Bahorel roared and Jehan saw how mad he was. He was mad enough to really hurt someone, and Bahorel had already killed 23 people, and Jehan would just be one more. It probably wouldn’t even bother him. “Combeferre was just trying to get goddamn breakfast, and you smacked him. What is wrong with you?” 

That was Jehan’s breakfast though. They counted nine pieces of bread, because they’d missed two breakfasts, and when Jehan was really hungry, they had three pieces of toast with peanut butter for breakfast. That bread was for them, not for Combeferre. He’d stolen it. He was a thief. 

“Tell me! Tell me why the hell you do shit like this!” Bahorel’s yelling was so loud. “Why are you like this? Why can’t you just be a normal fucking kid?” 

Jehan went limp and Bahorel’s hand on their arm was the only thing holding them upright. If they were going to get hit by Bahorel, they weren’t going to fight it. All they had to do was let Bahorel win his fight, then they could go find Feuilly and get breakfast. Feuilly would understand. Feuilly didn’t want them to be hungry, and Bahorel didn’t even care. 

Combeferre’s voice was as boring and monotone as ever. “Put Jehan down, Baz.” 

That was not his nickname to use for Bahorel. Bahorel didn’t even like him. They went together to put raccoons in his apartment, and now Combeferre was using nicknames? This wasn’t fair. None of it was fair. 

“Yeah, let’s just leave them here. Feuilly can-” Joly stammered before Bahorel cut him off.

 

“You’re going to timeout,” Bahorel hissed. “When you fuck up, you go to timeout. That’s how this works.” 

Jehan wailed. They had done self defense, because they were going to starve to death if Combeferre took all of their food. It’d take a while, but Combeferre would kill them, so they needed to protect themself by any means necessary. 

Where was timeout? Jehan wanted it to be in 8, with Grantaire. Maybe Grantaire would get them out of it. Maybe Grantaire would make fry bread and eggs, and they’d talk about books. They did that sometimes. They used to do it more, but now it didn’t happen that much. Grantaire was too tired, just like on Jehan’s birthday. 

Now Grantaire was just gone.

Jehan’s knees and feet dragged along the floor as Bahorel pulled them to the elevator by their arm. “I think you’re hurting them,” Joly’s voice was soft, “Jehan’s crying like you’re hurting them.”

“Jehan’s crying like they’re looking for attention,” Bahorel snarled as Jehan hyperventilated. 

They didn’t want to go to 9. Not 9. Not 10 with Valjean either, but especially not 9. Their foot hurt from where the knife fell on it, and now they weren’t even going to get breakfast. Would they die in time out? 

“No!” Jehan shrieked, thrashing in Bahorel’s grip when he pressed 9. “No! No!” They clawed at his hands, just so they could get free, but Bahorel was too strong. Bahorel was always going to be too strong.

Bahorel didn’t even like them. Bahorel was doing this because he hated Jehan. And Joly and Combeferre were watching it happen because they hated Jehan, too. No one really liked them, not even Feuilly. Feuilly just felt bad; they weren’t really friends. 

It wasn’t like with Feuilly, where Jehan could try to bargain to get out of it, and Feuilly would just stand there and pretend not to hear. Bahorel carried them into the room when the elevator opened, and he left Jehan sitting on the floor. 

Bahorel didn’t care about Jehan. They kept crying as they went through all the people they ever knew who didn’t like them. The list included everyone, even their parents. Their arm stung and they cried more because of that. 

Normally the elevator didn’t open until they calmed down, but Jehan was still loud when Feuilly and Combeferre came. Maybe Jehan just couldn’t calm down today. Sometimes that happened and nothing on the whole planet could get them to feel better. They just had to cry until they ran out of tears. 

And they weren’t out yet. 

“Jehan, what happened?” Feuilly’s jaw was tight. “Why are you in timeout again?” 

“Jehan hit me,” Combeferre said, blinking twice like a lizard, or a gross bug. Not a pretty bug, but a really ugly one, like a spider, but one that had a nasty web that didn’t even look cool. “They had all the bread, so I took two slices, then they took them back, so I took them again, then they struck me on the nose. I ate the two slices of bread and my apple, and then I woke you up.” 

“I didn’t ask you,” Feuilly looked at the ceiling like he did a lot as he sat on the couch. Jehan was still on the floor, more or less where Bahorel dropped them. “Jehan, what the fuck, kid?” 

Jehan wasn’t in the mood to talk. No one cared what they had to say. 

“Don’t you want to behave?” Feuilly asked. “Do you like being down here?” 

No, of course they didn’t. It was awful here. 

“It’s okay,” Combeferre said, looking right at Jehan. “I’m not mad. Hitting me back was to be expected. I hurt you.”

Feuilly covered his face with his hands then sighed, “don’t give Jehan a free pass to hit you.” 

“When I was working, when I got something wrong, they hit me,” Combeferre was still staring at Jehan. “Hitting doesn’t bother me. That’s why I won.” 

Combeferre won because the other tribute was too stupid to leave the bathroom when the raccoons were trying to claw through the door. Combeferre only won because someone else made a worse mistake. 

“This isn’t about you,” Feuilly said with his jaw clenched. “Jehan, we don’t hit people.” 

Jehan wasn’t going to talk to Feuilly, not with Combeferre there. They cradled their arm, then looked at the unplugged TV. They could plug it back in, and then they could just live here. If Feuilly brought them food, then this would be the best place for them. 

If Jehan was already all alone, then no one could make them go to timeout. Everyday would be timeout, but at least they’d never have to see Combeferre. Bahorel would never yell asking them if they were stupid; it’d just be Jehan. 

Everyone was lying yesterday because they felt bad. Jehan belonged in timeout. No one wanted Jehan to stay with them, not even Grantaire, that’s why he was gone. 

“Do you see that Jehan is crying? That means they’re upset,” Combeferre squinted towards them. “Did Bahorel hurt your arm?” 

“Did Bahorel hurt your arm?” Feuilly knelt on the floor. “Did he hit you?” 

“No, he grabbed them,” Combeferre yanked Feuilly’s arm and he yelped, “like that.” 

“Let me go,” Feuilly said and Combeferre dropped him immediately. “Fucking shit, Jehan, let me see your arm.” 

Jehan shook their head, then slowly scooted away until their back was against a wall. Feuilly didn’t care. Feuilly didn’t care about Jehan. No one did. 

“Why don’t you go back to the apartment?” Feuilly turned to Combeferre. 

“And do what?” Combeferre asked. 

“Go read something, I dunno.”

“Go read something,” Combeferre nodded. “For how long? Anything I want?” 

“Yeah, until I get back, then we’ll,” Feuilly turned from Combeferre to Jehan, then back. He looked tired, “you really want me to make you a schedule? I’m not your keeper.” 

“We’re getting married, and the Bishop said whoever I married would help me,” Combeferre blinked a few times. “I need a schedule, or I won’t get anything done.” 

“We’re decorations, Combeferre,” Feuilly snarled. “No rich person wonders what their stained glass windows did while they were out. Do whatever you want.”

“I’m going to read Valjean’s encyclopedia for two hours,” Combeferre nodded. “And then I will have a snack. Will you be done by then?” 

Why was Combeferre so weird? Jehan didn’t like it. It didn’t look like Feuilly liked it either. 

“If I’m still down here in two hours, send Valjean and Javert,” Feuilly sighed. “But this won’t take that long, will it, kid?”

“Goodbye Jehan and Feuilly. I hope you feel better and stop crying.” 

“Bye,” Feuilly shooed him off and Jehan didn’t have anything nice to say to Combeferre, so they kept their mouth shut. “Jehan, what the fuck?” 

Jehan simply shrugged. They didn’t have anything nice to say to Feuilly, either. 

“So why the hell did you hit Combeferre at breakfast? Don’t tell me you didn’t because Joly said he saw you do it.” Jehan wasn’t in the mood to talk.

It took Feuilly a couple moments until he realized that Jehan just wasn’t going to say anything. They were only still crying because they couldn’t stop. 

“I’m not going to guess,” Feuilly sighed. 

Jehan didn’t care. If Feuilly didn’t want to guess then he didn’t have to. Jehan still wasn’t going to tell. Jehan didn’t have anything to say.

“So you don’t want to talk to me,” Feuilly shrugged, sitting down on the floor. “I can wait. I’ll just sit here.” 

Who cared? Jehan didn’t. Feuilly could sit wherever he wanted. Jehan could take this opportunity to sleep, if Feuilly was just going to be staring at them. They didn’t get much last night, just the time on the couch. They spent the rest of the night in their new room, patiently awaiting breakfast, and then they didn’t even get any. 

Maybe Feuilly would bring them lunch. 

Or maybe not. 

Their stomach gurgled. 

“What’d you eat for breakfast?” Feuilly asked. “Toast? You like toast, don’t you?”

“Fuck you,” Jehan whispered. That’s what Bahorel would have said to someone taunting him, and Jehan didn’t like this feeling. 

“Oh, you can talk?” A smile tugged at Feuilly’s lips. “I was worried you’d forgotten how. I’d never heard you be quiet for so long. Tell me about breakfast. What did you eat?” 

“I didn’t,” Jehan snarled, and they bared their teeth and they were balling their fists to hit Feuilly right in the face, just like Combeferre. 

“You didn’t.” Feuilly was frowning again. “You didn’t eat anything?”

Jehan shook their head. 

“Are you hungry?” 

Jehan nodded.

“Come with me, and we’ll get breakfast, okay? Bahorel’s out looking for Grantaire; he won’t yell at you.” 

Feuilly didn’t wait for Jehan to say yes or no, he just grabbed their forearm and pulled them to their feet. That was fine though, because Jehan still didn’t want to talk. 

They didn’t want to talk so much that they let Feuilly make their plate with zero input. They didn’t really like grape jelly, but if Feuilly was giving them two slices of jellied toast and a yogurt, then that was breakfast. 

“You don’t have to eat so fast,” Feuilly whispered as Jehan shoved a whole slice of toast in their mouth, folding it so it’d fit in one bite. “No one’s going to take your food.” 

“Combeferre took my food,” Jehan sprayed crumbs across the table. They forgot they weren’t talking. 

“You had all the bread,” Joly was smiling and didn’t seem mad at them. Joly never seemed mad. 

“I had nine pieces,” Jehan explained, chewing their food. They held out their jam covered fingers, too, for emphasis. “Three for today, and then six for the two breakfasts I missed. And Combeferre stole my food because he’s a thief.” 

“You can’t eat nine pieces of toast, that’s silly,” Joly laughed. “You’d make yourself ill and then you’d have to go to the hospital. And it’s covered in germs there. You’d get an infection and then who knows what would happen next.” 

“Jehan would just vomit,” Combeferre called from the couch. “Not every ailment requires hospitalization. As long as they didn’t aspirate their breakfast and develop pneumonia or tear their esophagus, they wouldn’t require medical care.”

The first half of that statement seemed to make Joly feel better, but the second half seemed to make him worry again. “Where did you learn that?” Joly asked. 

“Book,” Combeferre replied. “I can teach you. Medicine is fascinating, but not as fascinating as chimney bees.” 

Bees were their thing with Joly, and Combeferre was trying to steal it. He was a thief. Jehan swallowed the lump of bread in their mouth, then scrunched the other up so they could swallow it whole like a snake. 

“You didn’t even chew,” Feuilly sighed. “Eat your yogurt and go to your room, I guess. You can continue your timeout there.”

Fine by Jehan. They scraped the sides of their yogurt container, then drank their juice. They didn’t have anything to say to anyone here, anyway. They washed their sticky hands in the sink and rinsed off their plate. 

Jehan sat with their back to the door and watched out the window until Feuilly got them for lunch.

Jehan spent a lot of time in timeout, but at least timeout wasn’t in 9 anymore. And they got timeout breaks for meals, not snacks, but meals. Timeout wasn’t so bad, except for how angry it made Feuilly and Bahorel. 

Jehan thought maybe they saw Joly get angry too, when they threw a book across the room and it hit his puzzle, knocking pieces onto the floor. 

Jehan was starting to like timeout, because no one in timeout yelled at them. No one excluded them if they were already in timeout. They didn’t have to see Combeferre or pretend to be nice to him if the door was shut. 

The bad side effect from all the punishment was that Feuilly wasn’t nice anymore. He wasn’t mean, but he wasn’t nice. He didn’t lay in Jehan’s room and listen to a bedtime story, and he didn’t ask Jehan questions. When Jehan was bad, Feuilly would just lift his arm and point a finger in the general direction of Jehan’s room. 

And after a week, Jehan would just go. 

It didn’t matter if they cried or screamed or threw a book, they weren’t getting out of timeout. And at least in timeout, they couldn’t get any more punishment. Once the punishment happened and they were bad, that was that. 

By day ten Jehan would just send themself to timeout. If they were thinking too much about hitting Combeferre in his dumb glasses and breaking them on his stupid face, then Jehan would leave and go sit in their room, back to the door, staring at the window, just in case. If they sent themself to punishment, no one else could. They got to control where they went, not Feuilly and Bahorel. 

And they were going to sit alone in their room. 

Bahorel was probably so sick of them that they weren’t going to get them out of the Games. Jehan thought about that a lot when they were alone. Would Bahorel and Feuilly cry when they died? Would they be happy? 

Combeferre would be happy and Joly would cry, but Jehan didn’t know about Bahorel and Feuilly. It was hard to tell with them. They made sure Jehan had food, which was important, but they didn’t play with them, not anymore. Bahorel left the apartment before the sun came up and came home after it was dark, most of the time. And then, when Jehan was laying in bed, finding shapes on their ceiling, Bahorel would go back out. 

Bahorel was looking for Grantaire, but he didn't want to be found. If he did, someone would have found him. He would have come back to check on Jehan, but he didn't. 

Grantaire didn't even tell Jehan where he was going. 

Why would he? 

Jehan was just going to die in eight months. They would probably die in the bloodbath and be the very first person killed. That'd make everyone happy. 

Especially Combeferre. 

Stupid Combeferre.

Combeferre was the reason Jehan was alone in their room right now. They'd seen his smug smile as he read a book to Feuilly, on the couch, and it wasn't even a fun book. It was old Dark Days history that no one cared about, but Feuilly was asking questions like, why silver? What does that mean gold standard? A yellow standard? 

And Combeferre laughed and Feuilly looked so happy, and he never looked that way when he was with Jehan. Not anymore, and maybe Jehan had made it all up, and Feuilly was never happy to be around them, not even when they first met and Feuilly and Javert took them to the movies. 

So Jehan went to timeout, because Combeferre made them so mad. 

Jehan was so mad that they were crying.

Not so loud that anyone noticed, not with the door shut, but they were crying. That happened when they got angry enough. When Jehan thought about Combeferre and how much everyone seemed to like him, even Joly who once said they were best friends, they couldn't help it. Jehan was going to die and everyone knew it, and they were alone in timeout while everyone fawned over Combeferre. 

Stupid Combeferre and his stupid old books he borrowed from Valjean. Valjean wouldn't let Jehan borrow even one book; Jehan had asked. 

It wasn't fair. 

Nothing was fair. Grantaire, when Grantaire wasn't missing, would tell Jehan, "life's a bitch and then you die," when they complained. 

Combeferre, Valjean, Javert, Bahorel, Feuilly, Joly and even Grantaire were bitches, and Jehan was going to die and no one cared. 

They must have been happy. 

Timeouts were just everyone practicing for them to be gone. They were in such a rush for Jehan to be gone, that everyone was already pretending. 

Jehan heard Feuilly laugh, even though the door was closed, and they covered their mouth to muffle a sob. They tilted their head forward, so they could ignore it. Feuilly was happy they were in timeout.

Feuilly would be happy when they were gone. 

Maybe Jehan would be happy, too.

This is a double post.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


“Aren’t you hungry?” Joly asked, taping the tins of his fork against a porcelain plate. Jehan’s mother had plates like these, but with lacy flowers sprawled along the edges, and these were just a flat white. They were breakable though, and Grantaire didn’t keep breakable plates in 8’s apartment. 

Probably because he didn’t want to get attached to something Jehan would just destroy. 

“Are you sick?” Joly worried.

That was what Joly did best, even though it wasn’t like worrying ever helped anyone. Jehan could spend the rest of their life worrying about how it would end, and it wouldn’t change anything; they couldn’t change anything. Worry was useless. 

Grantaire was gone and worrying about where he was wouldn’t send out a beacon to draw him home. Staying awake, not to check for intruders, but to worry about Grantaire’s whereabouts, if he was cold, if he was hungry, if he was lonely, wouldn’t set off an alarm that would lure Grantaire back. 

Grantaire wouldn’t come back because he left. 

Everyone was going to leave. 

One day, Jehan would leave, too. Not of their own will, their volition, as they’d read in the quiet time they spent avoiding the others, but they’d be forced to leave. And it wouldn’t do anyone any good to worry. Worry wouldn’t bring Jehan home safely. 

Bahorel and Feuilly never mentioned the adoption paperwork, which was fine. It was expected. Jehan expected to die in the Games, and it was nonsensical to delude themselves with anything but the truth. They’d leave, and everyone would go on around this table in 11, just like they probably did when Jehan spent the two days alone in 9. 

“Jehan!” Bahorel’s shout momentarily snapped Jehan out of their trance. 

They were beneath a magic spell, like a fairytale where the good characters, the princes and princesses and starving children and talking horses, won in the end. The good characters, they won. Jehan was the ogre or the witch or the mother or father. They’d be defeated and everyone would still sit around this table in 11. 

“Jehan.”

And when everyone died, when they all left, there’d be new people around the table. This table would survive longer than Jehan, like most things would, and then, once the table was too broken to be of any use, whoever was around, someone who once ate with someone who ate with Jehan, they’d just get another. How long had people sat at tables with chairs? Forever? 

“I think they’re sick.” 

Jehan couldn’t tell if Joly liked to worry, or if it was a compulsion. Wanting to hit people, that was a compulsion. The dictionary Grantaire gave Jehan said a compulsion was something you had to do, even if you didn't want to, even if it made you miserable. Maybe doing morphling was a compulsion for Grantaire, and that’s why he had to leave. 

"They're doing this for attention." 

Jehan didn't register who said that, but they wanted to hit him in the face. Attention? Jehan bunched their fingers in the scratchy material of their only pair of unembellished pants. They were plain, because Jehan didn't feel like wearing any fun patterns or colors. Dark grey was fine. They were pants and Jehan had to wear pants. It wasn't like pants mattered. 

It wasn't like anything mattered. 

"If you think they're doing this shit for attention and you start yelling at them, then you're giving them the fucking attention," Feuilly laughed a little, and Jehan couldn't tell what was funny.

Their chicken breast wasn't funny. No, it was soaked in a gravy that had coagulated, that was a word Jehan read that meant it looked like the consistency of snot, and it wasn't even so gross it was funny. 

Farts used to be like that. If someone farted, usually Grantaire, Jehan would scream about how disgusting it was but then everyone would laugh. Maybe when Grantaire left, he took things being funny with him. Maybe he took everything good with him. 

Maybe that's why Jehan had to stay. 

Feuilly's hand was an uncomfortable weight on Jehan's shoulder. "Jehan, I asked you a question." 

"Oh." 

They looked back down at their plate, and looked for patterns in the pepper on the food. Maybe they could do a dot to dot; they liked those when they went to school. They were like surprises, but usually Jehan could sort of tell what the drawing was supposed to be, before their pencil even touched the paper. 

There weren't any patterns in their food, not that they could see. 

"Are you done?" Feuilly asked. 

"Yeah." 

They were done. They'd been done. There wasn't any point in dragging it out another two seasons. Sometimes it was a relief for things to just be over.

"We're going to play cards, do you wanna play?" Joly smiled as Feuilly whisked their plate away. "We can play Go Fish." 

Go Fish didn't sound like it'd be fun. Jehan didn't want to sit around this table anymore. 

They shook their head. 

"Go Fish is your favorite," Bahorel squinted his eyes like he couldn't see Jehan. He could, even if he wished he couldn't. Jehan hadn't left yet. "I want to do something fun, all of us, before I have to leave." 

Jehan didn't want Bahorel to go. Where was he going? Who'd be here to eat chicken with mysterious gravy? Feuilly, Joly, and Combeferre? Combeferre would probably never leave. He'd outlast the table. 

"We all get to leave," Joly looked happy, like this was exciting. Were they looking forward to going? "I'm going to see Bulgur and Mom." 

Combeferre sighed dreamily, "Courfeyrac." 

"Courfeyrac," Feuilly laughed with his mouth open, "is either going to be the coolest dude to ever walk Panem, or I'm going to be disappointed." 

Jehan relaxed their fingers. “Who am I going with?” 

Just by talking, Jehan squashed the bright mood in the room. They should have kept quiet. They shouldn’t have even wondered. No one was going to take Jehan anywhere. 

“I’ve been meaning to talk to you about that,” Bahorel places a hand on his neck, and he doesn’t look angry, not like he did before. “Do you want to go sit on your bed with me?” 

They were being left behind. If something good was going to happen, Bahorel wouldn’t have kept it to himself like that. He would have been shouting and tickling Jehan, and Jehan would have been pretending that tickles were still fun. 

Sensing Jehan’s reluctance, which wasn’t reluctance just the slow drudge of acceptance, Bahorel rubbed their back. They needed to let the information wash over them; nothing they could do would change it. No amount of crying would make anyone want Jehan around. 

All it took was a moment. “Sure.”

Jehan kept all their blankets on their bed, even though they didn’t need them. No one needed that many blankets, but Grantaire gave them to Jehan, so they kept them. And they kept them out, as a reminder. 

Jehan hoped Grantaire wasn’t cold. 

“So,” the mattress sank beneath Bahorel’s weight, “about this trip.” 

Jehan nodded. 

“You’re going to stay here.” Of course they were. Why would they come with? Who would take them? “Don’t make that face.” 

Don’t be disappointed. 

Bahorel sighed, “look, your mom, she told me no. I asked if I could take you, keep you in 2 with me while I train at the Academy, and she said no. That’s not what she wants for you, and she wants to keep you close, for sentimental reasons.”

“Sentimental reasons?” 

Maybe sentimental meant something other than what Jehan thought. They were under the assumption that sentimental was like fry bread, where it gave them a good feeling from tasting it, back when they still had good feelings. They, of course, didn’t get those anymore. Not even their magenta truck made them happy. Not even their heavy blanket. 

“Her words not mine,” Bahorel exhaled loudly through his nose, then wrapped an arm around Jehan’s shoulder, pulling them close. They should have liked that. They should have felt something. “She doesn’t want you to go to the Academy. She said that you’re a lover, not a fighter, and that I shouldn’t try to change you. But, on the bright side, she’s going to come get you while we’re gone. She misses you.” 

Jehan’s mom missed them? They held their breath and tried to identify the tight feeling in their throat. Bahorel squeezed them, then knocked his head against Jehan’s, before letting go.

“She misses me?” Jehan croaked as all their air left their body in one rush. “Really?” 

“Yeah, she’s your mom, kiddo. Did you think she didn’t miss you?” Bahorel laughed a little. “Moms always miss their kids. It’s what moms do.” Jehan knew that Bahorel’s mom didn’t miss him. She wouldn’t even look at Bahorel when he was in 2.

“Right,” that was what Jehan was supposed to say. They needed to do what they were supposed to. “She’s coming to get me.” 

“Yeah,” Bahorel hit his fist on Jehan’s arm, light enough that it didn’t hurt, “she’s going to do something fun with you, while all of us are gone.” 

“Because I’m playing in the Games,” Jehan felt any shadows of excitement drain out through an anxious hole in their stomach. “Because if she doesn’t see me this year, she won’t ever see me again.” 

“She just misses you.” 

Bahorel didn’t want to talk about that. He was still labouring under the idea that Jehan could win. Jehan knew they couldn’t. They didn’t even think that there was a part of them left that wanted it. It’d be fine to lose. Things would be better if they lost. 

“I’ll think of something.” Bahorel’s confidence was fake. Jehan could tell from the way that he bounced his left leg up and down, shaking the whole bed. “Don’t worry about that, okay? You don’t need to worry.” 

Finally Jehan got to just tell the truth, “I’m not worried.”

“You’ve been off. Look, I’m going to fix it, okay? Just trust me,” Bahorel smoothed back his short hair, then tousled Jehan’s. Usually they’d complain, whine that he was ruining their braid, but what did Jehan care? It was just hair. They could rebraid it, or better yet, just leave it as it was.

They’d probably just spend the rest of the night in their room. Timeout would naturally turn into bedtime, if they just sat still long enough. It was easy enough to sleep now. Once they stopped caring if someone was coming to kill them, they didn’t need to be on guard for an attack. 

“I swear, look,” Bahorel grabbed Jehan’s chin and made them look right in his eyes, “I fucking swear, I’m going to fix it. I told your mom, and she’s not happy about it either. No one likes this for you. Hell, I don’t even think the Game Maker is thrilled about it. You’re going to be fine, just trust me.” 

“Okay.” 

And it was okay. They’d go and play and die and it would be okay. They’d accepted it. 

“Are you sure you don’t want to play cards? I’ll teach you District 10 Hold ‘Em. You’re not going to be worse at bluffing than Combeferre. It’s not physically possible,” Bahorel smiled and swiped his thumb over Jehan’s cheek as he pushed their head away. 

“I’m tired,” Jehan lied. “Next time.” Jehan was a liar. 

“Yeah,” the muscles in Bahorel’s neck relaxed, “next time. I’m gonna hold you to it.” 

He wouldn’t.

“Goodnight, Jehan,” Bahorel said, stretching up toward the ceiling as he got ready to leave. Cards were more fun than Jehan. Jehan wasn’t fun anymore. It wasn’t Bahorel’s fault. 

“Love you, Baz,” the nickname felt off in their mouth, like it wasn’t really Jehan’s to use. “Have a good night.” 

“Goodnight, kiddo.” 

That didn’t help the hollow feeling inside of Jehan, either. Not that they really thought Bahorel saying he loved them would have fixed it. Whatever was wrong, and Jehan wasn’t sure if it was wrong, or they were just now learning how they were always supposed to be, wouldn’t be fixed because Bahorel finally said he loved Jehan. 

“Love you,” Jehan whispered once the latch clicked.

For sentimental reasons is perhaps my favorite line from a show ever.

“Are you nervous?” Feuilly asked. 

Combeferre watched the sand in his hourglass trickle to the bottom as he brushed his teeth. He was almost done, but it was important that he do it for the full two minutes. He couldn’t talk until he spit his toothpaste in the sink, rinsed off his toothbrush, put it in the holder, rinsed out his mouth, spat again, then wiped his hands and face dry. Those were the steps that he needed to follow, otherwise he might get it wrong. 

Bahorel teased that toothbrush timers were for little kids. Feuilly explained that he was just an asshole, and if Combeferre felt like he needed one, then he could buy it. He had the money. 

He had so much money. 

It was hard for him to conceptualize how much money he had, but he’d never really been a numbers person. Applied sciences were fine until letters and numbers mixed, and then he lost interest. The alphabet and math were too different to go together, and it was a challenge to get past that. And there were just other things he liked learning more. 

So many other things. 

His timer was up. He finished the ritual then turned to Feuilly, “no, I am not nervous.” 

“We went over your speeches,” Feuilly nodded, “and you wrote them down, right? You’ve got your speech for each district?” 

“Yes, and I labeled them at the top with the district number, in case the papers get shuffled.” 

“We can workshop them on the train.” 

Combeferre turned over his hourglass just to watch the pale sand drift to the bottom again. Feuilly was the one who insisted that sometimes when he wanted to do something, it was alright to just do it. Things didn’t need to be so rigid. So Combeferre watched the hourglass for another two minutes, even though Feuilly was trying to talk to him. 

“And we’ve got a week in 3,” Feuilly stammered. “We should run them a few more times, just to make sure.” 

Once the sand was again gone, Combeferre said, “if you want to.” 

"I just want you to get this right," Feuilly said. "It's important." 

Feuilly was always helpful. He told Combeferre when something was important, and when it wasn't. For example, it was important to develop a talent that the Capital could monetize. That was maybe the most important, after Combeferre being, as Feuilly explained, hot and unattainable. 

Lots of things were unimportant according to Feuilly. Eating the same thing as everyone else, making his bed, and talking in the apartment even when he didn't feel like it; all of those things didn't matter.

Combeferre like Feuilly. Not like he liked Courfeyrac, and he came to accept that he liked Courfeyrac romantically. 

"We need to say goodbye to Jehan," Feuilly explained as Combeferre put his toothbrush and other toiletries in a plain blue bag that zipped closed. Bahorel said it was a cosmetics bag, and it had a bunch of makeup inside. Combeferre never understood why he needed so many creams and powders. Feuilly said he'd help him get it on. They practiced that together, because it fell under the realm of being hot and unattainable, which was important. 

So important that Feuilly put on his makeup before he ever brushed his teeth.

They walked through the apartment and Feuilly knocked on Jehan's door twice. "Jehan, we're about to go. I just wanted to say goodbye." 

"Wait!" Jehan shrieked. "I need your help!" 

Jehan hadn't sounded like that since before Grantaire left, at least not where Combeferre could hear them. It was an excitable noise, or that's what Combeferre thought. It was hard to be sure with human noises, especially those coming from Jehan. 

"We have to go," Feuilly opened the door anyway. 

A mess of clothes was on Jehan's bed; possibly every singular item they owned, save for the magenta dress covered with teal lightning bolts. "Do you think my mom will like this one the best?" 

"Your mom?" Feuilly turned toward Combeferre and held his hand out in a stop sign, then walked inside. That hand motion meant that Combeferre was not supposed to follow him. "Did Bahorel tell you?"

"Yeah! I have to look nice. Should I do two braids? Do you think she likes two braids more than one? I want to impress her! She's coming to get me for two weeks!" 

"Hmm," Feuilly's shoulders were hunched, "I think she's going to get you for dinner. That's what she told me. I made sure the fridge was stocked, eat when you're hungry." 

"What?" Jehan grabbed the bottom of their dress and bunched in their fists. "Why would she only want to have me for dinner?" Their eyes went glassy and Combeferre knew they were about to cry. "Bahorel said she missed me." 

"Maybe I'm wrong," Feuilly shrugged and Combeferre wondered if he had to stay right at the doorway. Sometimes that hand motion from Feuilly meant don't move at all, but other times it meant not to don't follow him. "I'm not the best at understanding people. Your outfit is very nice." 

Jehan blinked a few times, then smiled and nodded. 

"But you are, objectively, the best at gauging what people mean when they say something," Combeferre said. Feuilly understood everything about people. 

"No, I'm not," Feuilly held up the stop sign again as Jehan furrowed their brow. "No one asked you, Combeferre." 

"Yeah, no one fucking asked you," Jehan spat. "My mom is coming to get me. She loves and misses me and we're going to have a lot of fun. You don't know anything. You're a goddamned idiot." 

Combeferre did not like being cursed at. 

"Do you want a hug before I go?" Feuilly asked. "We're already late." 

Jehan launched into Feuilly open arms and let Feuilly kiss the top of their head and tell them to behave and have fun. When it was time for them to break apart, Feuilly had to pry Jehan's hands away. 

"Bye Jehan," Combeferre said, waving his hand. "I will bring you something back from 3." Bahorel said that was the best way to get Jehan to like him. Jehan liked thoughtful trinkets, so Combeferre just had to keep an eye out for something they could give them. 

"Uh, bye?" Jehan waved back. "Bye Feuilly, I love you!" 

Feuilly had both of their suitcases as he said, "I love you, too." 

They didn't talk in the elevator, or on the short car ride to the train station. Feuilly didn't say anything until they were out of the Capital, speeding through the mountains. 

"Hey, when I tell Jehan a lie, there's a reason." 

"What's the reason?" Combeferre asked, looking up from his book. He brought the book Feuilly gave him, the bug book. 

Feuilly sighed, resting his forehead on the table, "the reason is I don't want Jehan to have a meltdown. So when I say something to Jehan, don't question it." 

"Okay," Combeferre went back to reading his book until the train came to a complete stop. 

"Are we gonna get assassinated here?" Feuilly asked, eyeing their suitcases. "I know we have to get off, but we never discussed how safe 3 is. I'm going to bring my knife." 

"I've never been assassinated," Combeferre shrugged, closing his book. He was going to leave it on the train. He had one of Valjean's encyclopedias in his suitcase. He did not need two books. 

"You don't say," Feuilly laughed as he pulled Combeferre to his feet. He smoothed out Combeferre's blazer, which this time had a sheer shirt underneath and a bra. Not a comfortable bra, but one that claimed to give lift and separation. 

Combeferre read a lot of medical texts, and he never saw a diagram or read a single case where a person's chest was a solid mass all the way across. They were designed to be seperate without any wires cutting into his ribcage. Bahorel said it was marketing, but it was clearly bad marketing. 

"You look good." 

"Thanks. These shoes hurt my feet, my navel is cold, there is something metal poking my chest, and my face itches." 

Feuilly laughed a little, even though none of this was funny, not to Combeferre. 

"You think Courfeyrac is waiting at the station?" Feuilly asked. 

Combeferre nodded vigorously. They hoped he was. They missed Courfeyrac so much. Sleeping next to Feuilly was fine, and better than sleeping alone, even if more often than not Bahorel climbed into bed, too, but sleeping next to Courfeyrac was the best. 

Feuilly peeked through the window and laughed again. Feuilly laughed a lot. "There are so many fucking people. An absurd amount. What's he look like?" 

Combeferre decided he was going to look. He scanned the crowd then tapped the glass with a white tipped nail that Feuilly said he had to have. "That's him. Next to Otto and Bell." 

He looked as handsome as ever in his work clothes. 

"Otto and Bell?" 

"They ran the inn. Can we go? Can I hug him?" 

"Don't fucking kiss him where the paparazzi can see you," Feuilly warned. "I don't give two fucks if the Capital knows, but it doesn't need to be on fucking TV." 

They talked about how they were not actually getting married. Combeferre was free to pursue a relationship with Courfeyrac, both romantic and sexual, if he so chose. And in turn, Feuilly would keep, in Bahorel's words, "fucking his brains out." 

Anyway, Feuilly had Combeferre's engagement ring in his pocket, and he was going to give it to him at his party. They rehearsed how Combeferre was supposed to react when Feuilly knelt to the ground; what his face was supposed to do, what he was supposed to say, how he was supposed to kiss Feuilly with tongue and Feuilly would grab his butt. There were going to be the most cameras at the party, and Feuilly wanted to make sure the Capital got their moment from every angle. 

Combeferre nodded, to show he understood, then raced off the train. The crowd cheered and it was entirely too loud. He just wanted to grab Courfeyrac and tell him how much he loved him. And then stress the importance of not going to the Games. The rebels were stupid if they thought the Victors did anything important. They didn't. 

Feuilly said that they fucked people and made TV appearances. They were props, not tools for manipulating the masses into rebellion. 

He saw Courfeyrac before Courfeyrac saw him. "I missed you! Courfeyrac!" Combeferre shouted, wrapping both arms around his waist. He smelled like plain soap which was the best type of smell. He buried his nose in the name of his neck, then remembered he was not supposed to kiss Courfeyrac here. 

"Ferre?" Courfeyrac squeaked as Combeferre squeezed him. "I missed you, too." 

Oh no, Courfeyrac was crying. Combeferre let him go, then whispered, "did I hurt you?" Maybe he squeezed too tightly, or maybe Courfeyrac didn't want to be touched. 

"I thought you were going to die," he sniffled. "You almost died. The raccoons-" 

"Raccoons are not cute. They are vermin and I hate them. Bahorel put raccoons in my apartment, but he apologized." 

"Are you opening with that story? You're gonna make us seem like a bunch of assholes," Feuilly panted. "Graft Feuilly, you must be Courfeyrac. Nice to finally meet you." 

"Bahorel is an asshole," Combeferre said plainly. 

"You talked about me?" Courfeyrac wiped his eyes.

"Constantly," Feuilly smiled. He held out his hand to shake. Courfeyrac just stared at it.

"You're supposed to shake hands," Combeferre explained. 

"I don't want to." 

"Cool," Feuilly laughed, putting down his hand. "Is everyone in 3 like y'all?" 

"What does that mean?" Courfeyrac looked between the two of them, then glared. "Are you mean to her? You are, aren't you? Why are you even here? Shouldn't you be in 11?" 

"We're dating," Combeferre didn't understand why he was frowning, but he was. 

"We are not really dating," Feuilly whispered. "He," Feuilly looked at Courfeyrac then said, "she messed up her speech and now we're madly in love." 

"I love him, but not like that," Combeferre nodded as Courfeyrac stared, open mouthed. 

"You love me?" Feuilly smiled, then grabbed Combeferre's hand. "I love you, too. You're fun, dude." 

"I'm fun?" Combeferre patted his legs and then looked at Courfeyrac. "Feuilly thinks I'm fun." 

"Faraday," Bell was wearing black shoes that seemed as uncomfortable as Combeferre's. "We're so proud of you." 

"Yes," Otto nodded. He got to wear normal shoes. "And this is Feuilly?"

"Her fake boyfriend," Courfeyrac groaned. He no longer looked excited to see Combeferre. "Can we go home? This is dumb." 

"Can I come?" Combeferre kept patting his thighs, then he realized he was doing it and shoved his hands into his pockets. "I don't eat toast anymore. I don't like toast." 

"We have a room," Otto nodded. Combeferre pulled a hand out of his pocket then ran it like a spider on his stomach. "Yes, we have a room." 

Feuilly touched his ear then looked at Otto, then Bell. "A room?" 

Bell's smile showed her teeth. Combeferre did not miss Otto and Bell, not even a little. 

"Can I sleep next to Courfeyrac again?" Combeferre rocked back and forth on his feet. "I missed Courfeyrac."

Jehan packed their bag.

Then, after sitting on the couch staring at the hallway listening for the whirl of the elevator for an hour, they decided to repack their bag. Their mother was a socialite, and she wanted to come to the Capital to design clothes, so Jehan needed to look their best. 

And they needed something for every situation. A fancy party, well that required a fancy outfit with shoes that matched and their black socks that had the stars stitched into them. They might go see a play, and then they’d need an indoor coat, because the theater was cold, according to her.

Jehan had never been to the theater, but they were big enough to go now. They could sit still and be quiet. They’d had so much practice over the last few years of just existing in silence. They packed a sweater, a lavender piece that was thin but warm. And they’d need a real coat, so they could leave it at coat check. 

Their mother was always talking about who they saw at coat check, Jehan remembered. One time she saw Mrs. Enjolras and she claimed that Mrs. Enjolras was a wrinkled bag of a woman, and that she clearly was dying her hair herself. Mrs. Enjolras rarely left 8, so she was shocked to see her at a symphony concert of all places. 

Hopefully, wherever they went, Mrs. Enjolras wouldn’t be there. 

They had two weeks to go to as many fun places as possible. As they folded their clothes, cramming them into their bag, they listened intently for the elevator. Maybe she didn’t know that Jehan was staying in 11. Bahorel probably told her though. Bahorel said she was going to come. 

After another hour on the couch they decided to wait by the elevator. They dragged a chair, the solid wood ones they used to eat dinner, and perched right in front of the steel doors. They’d know when she got here. They wouldn’t miss it. 

And then, when they raced down the hallway to quickly use the bathroom, they looked into their room, and saw the sky outside their window was dark. 

Something really important must have come up. Maybe traffic was bad. Sometimes she said traffic in the Capital was bad, when she’d talk to her friends on the phone. She said things like, it was so awful you’d think we were waiting for the caravans during the Dark Days, or, there are ten year olds on my factory floor who could drive better than these taxis, I swear. So maybe she just got stuck in traffic. 

For the first time in a long time, Jehan stayed up all night.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Otto and Bell liked Feuilly more than they liked Combeferre. Bell placed her hands on Feuilly’s shoulder as she talked to him in hushed tones about things Combeferre apparently didn’t need to know about. 

“What don’t I need to know about?” Combeferre asked as they huddled together in the basement. 

Otto had said that he wanted to show Feuilly their old tables, because he thought maybe they were manufactured in 11, before the Dark Days, but that was a lie. They just needed cover to go into the basement away from the microphones. 

Courfeyrac wasn’t even with them, but Combeferre was supposed to stay next to a conversation he was not taking part in. Combeferre was Feuilly’s girlfriend, even though he wasn’t. Bell called that keeping up appearances.

“Things you wouldn’t understand.” 

“And Feuilly will?” Combeferre crossed his arms over his chest. Feuilly was barely literate, and while that wasn’t his fault, as Bahorel explained, he wasn’t smarter than Combeferre. Combeferre was an asset who could get to the root of an idea in a text quickly. They were excellent at summarizing and had a large vocabulary. 

 

Just because they were previously slated to die, that didn’t mean that they couldn’t be useful. 

“Feuilly’s, well,” Bell started and Feuilly looked around the room, like he was confused. 

The rebels were evil. The rebels sent Combeferre to die. They had a bureaucracy that cleared the concept of Combeferre giving their life in service to their new country, though he wasn’t even a legal adult. It was one thing to ask a nineteen year old boy to fight in a way where he had a shot, no matter how miniscule, of coming home alive, and another to send a seventeen year old to certain death. 

“What sort of thing can Feuilly understand that I can’t?” Combeferre pressed. “Tell me.” 

“Things with people! For fuck’s sake, Faraday! You got up there for your interview looking like one of Maxwell’s silly inventions trying to mimic typical human behavior. I can’t use you for anything. We’ll still have to send Maxwell, but now we’re scrambling to find your replacement.” 

“Replacement?” Feuilly asked as Combeferre started to bounce up and down on the balls of his feet. 

Everyone said he did a good job on his interview, but he knew he was a failure. Otto always told him when he was a failure. This was just like before he played, except now Combeferre had trouble sleeping at night.

“You see,” Bell’s words meanered, like she was hesitant to say them. “It’s complicated. I’d hate to bog you down with the specifics, Graft.” 

“It’s not complicated,” Combeferre kept his voice low and even. “Otto and Bell found me digging in their garbage after the Bishop died, and they said I could take a job at their inn or they would call the peacekeepers. I said job, because the Bishop told me to avoid peacekeepers. And the job was to make sure Courfeyrac won the Hunger Games. We were supposed to go together, but Courfeyralt went instead, so I decided that I should just win, and I did.” 

Feuilly stared at him while Otto and Bell looked at the dirt floor. Combeferre kept bouncing. This room was too cold, even with the blazer. It was cooler underground. Lots of bugs sought refuge from the summer temperatures in the dirt, but now it was almost winter and he wished he was warmer. 

“I am excellent at summarizing, which is why I should be included.” 

Feuilly made a face that had the mouth of the sadness face from the Bishop’s flashcards, but the eyebrows from afraid and the nose from disgust. Combeferre didn’t know what emotion Feuilly was feeling, but he grabbed Combeferre’s hand and took three large steps backwards. 

It was unusual for Feuilly to grab Combeferre without explicit permission, but it was a firm pressure, like he was holding something he didn’t want to slip from his grasp. 

 

“We can stay on the train,” Feuilly shook his head. “I’m not interested in whatever this,” his free hand moved in the air, completing a circle twice, “is.” 

“Maxwell’s Reaping and subsequent victory would be enough to embolden the pe-”

“Not interested,” Feuilly repeated, a little louder. “And if you send Maxwell next year, you won’t receive any support from us.” 

“We could wait-” 

“Do not send him!” Combeferre was too loud, but their heart pounded against their chest and their hand was starting to sweat. He will die. Do not send him!” 

"But-" 

"No, thank you so much for your hospitality," Feuilly pulled Combeferre away from them, then up the stairs. He nudged Combeferre once they were by the stairs. "Tell your boy to come see us on the train." 

Combeferre didn't think he had a boy, so he wasn't sure what Feuilly was talking about. Feuilly laughed a little, his face changing to happy as Colbeferee stared, trying to figure out what he meant. 

"Courfeyrac!" Feuilly shouted, then he grinned a little wider and glanced at the peacekeeper who was guarding the front door. "Otto and Bell propositioned us for a foursome!" 

They did not. Why would he say that if it wasn't true? 

"What?" Courfeyrac screeched. "My parents did that?"

Combeferre didn't know Otto and Bell were his parents. He never called them mom or dad, and Courfeyrac didn't even seem to like them. 

"Yep," Feuilly was still smiling like he told a great joke. "So we're gonna stay on the train. You're welcome to visit. Combeferre's missed you." 

"She has?" Courfeyrac poked his head down the stairs, then raced down, tripping over his feet. He wasn't a centipede, he only had two feet, but he seemed to forget where they were from time to time. He nearly stumbled, but caught himself on the bannister. 

"Yeah, dude," Feuilly snorted, grabbing their suitcases.

Combeferre wasn't supposed to carry suitcases because everyone thought he was a girl, and boys were supposed to do things for girls. Combeferre killed more people than Feuilly, though, and on some metric that had to make him stronger. He should have carried the bags. 

"I wish you could stay in the Capital with me," Combeferre nodded. "Right now I live with Feuilly and Jehan, but-" 

"Who the hell is Jehan?" Courfeyrac asked. "You shouldn't make her live with other-" 

"Jehan's eleven," Feuilly rolled his eyes, then dropped their luggage. They clattered near his nice new shoes that didn't have any holes. 

Did Courfeyrac's shoes have holes? Combeferre's old shoes did, but he hadn't thought to ask for new ones; it didn't seem important. He wanted Courfeyrac to have good shoes though. 

"Jehan, huh," Courfeyrac shrugged as he grabbed just Combeferre's bag. 

"I live with Jehan, but they don't speak with me often. I strangled them on the drive back to the Capital, and so we are not friends. But I'm going to pick out a souvenir, and then Jehan will forgive me." 

"You strangled someone?" Courfeyrac's voice was small as he drifted toward Feuilly as they walked. 

"Two people, I guess, if you count the Games. I didn't kill Jehan." 

"It was an accident," Feuilly cleared his throat as they left the inn. The peacekeeper trailed behind them. "Combeferre didn't mean to attack anyone. It was a shitty situation and he just lost his cool." 

Losing his cool was a phrase Feuilly used a lot. If Bahorel started screaming when Joly won at a card game, and Joly almost always won, he lost his cool. But it was a funny thing. Feuilly would laugh and Combeferre would laugh because Feuilly laughed. Sometimes losing his cool was serious like hitting someone or when Joly hyperventilated because Jehan licked all the forks in the drawer and then put them back. 

"He?" Courfeyrac asked. 

Combeferre didn't want to talk about that. "It's unimportant." It wasn't, but he didn't want to have that discussion. 

"I get confused," Feuilly shrugged, though he turned to look at Combeferre. "We don't go to school for very long in 11. I'm not as eloquent as her." 

"But you know what eloquent is?" Courfeyrac raised an eyebrow as they walked through town. "Really?" 

"Jehan reads to me," Feuilly rolled his eyes again. "They used to, anyway. They're," Feuilly paused and stopped walking, but Combeferre didn't notice, he just kept pace with Courfeyrac. "Jehan's probably going to die next year, so they're upset." 

"They sick?" Courfeyrac asked as Feuilly jogged for a few moments to be back shoulder to shoulder. "Aren't there doctors in the Capital?" 

"It's complicated." 

People kept saying that, even when it wasn't. 

Combeferre looked from side to side, to make sure no one was listening to him, then explained, "Jehan is the Game Maker's illegitimate child and the Game Maker has decided he wants Jehan to play in the Games. It's not complicated, you're just bad at summarizing." 

"Let's play cards on the train, huh?" Feuilly said as the station came into view. 

"The Game Maker is sending an eleven year old-" 

"Jehan turns twelve in June," Combeferre told Courfeyrac. "They might win. They're cunning." 

"Jehan's not going to win unless everyone blows themselves up," Feuilly sighed, adjusting his grip on his suitcase.

"That's happened before." Combeferre remembered the red on the ice during that Game. "I can tell the tributes from 3 to kill themselves." 

"You can't and won't," Feuilly hissed. "You will not. You will mentor them, and try to make them feel comfortable, but you will not encourage them to take their own life."

Combeferre was encouraged to take his own life. Why wasn't he allowed to tell his tributes to do the same? Why did Otto and Bell have different rules?

"Anyway, Jehan is intelligent and good company, once you get past the hitting and screaming." There was a lot of hitting and screaming to get past, but it didn't bother Combeferre. "Jehan is a very fast reader. Much faster than me." 

"No way," Courfeyrac swayed into him, knocking their shoulders together. It didn't hurt. "You're the fastest reader I have ever met." 

"You just get distracted so it takes you three times as long as it should to finish a book," Combeferre said. "You have a warped sense of what is fast." 

Combeferre didn't get distracted unless he was thinking about Courfeyrac.

There was a lull in conversation that didn't bother Combeferre. People didn't need to talk all the time. Frequently, he and Courfeyrac would just exist in each other's company. Combeferre always found it pleasurable. 

Feuilly, though, did not like long silences. Combeferre didn't understand why.

"So I hear you make inventions," Feuilly laughed a little. "Something about splitting apples." 

"Yes!" Combeferre shouted, not meaning to be so loud. "Courfeyrac makes inventions!" 

"I don't make inventions anymore," Courfeyrac shrugged. "Tinker time isn't useful. Otto and Bell," Courfeyrac made his free hand a bug on his shoulder. "I just don't." 

"I think I can give you my house," Combeferre said as they all climbed the steps to train. "Bahorel gave his house to his parents and Joly did, too." 

"You can let anyone you want live in your house," Feuilly shrugged. "The downside is the rebels might try to kill you. They attacked Jehan and Grantaire. Me too, but I didn't have to kill anyone." 

Courfeyrac dropped Combeferre's suitcase in the middle of the floor, and Feuilly moved them to the side of the cabin, where they belonged.

"I thought everyone liked the Victors," Courfeyrac looked around the train, then sat at the table, stuffing a piece of sweet bread into his mouth. He didn't swallow before he started to talk again, "you're the champions if Panem." 

"Yeah, to like five people, one of which is Jehan," Feuilly's smile felt off. Usually Feuilly didn't smile like that. "But to everyone else, we're murderers who don't have to work and always have enough to eat." 

"We are murderers," Combeferre conceded. "They call you out to have sex with all those people. That's work." 

"That's not something we can talk about here." 

Combeferre hadn't realized that was a secret. He knew he wasn't supposed to tell the districts, but Bahorel frequently complained about what he described as dusty moth ball cunts. It wasn't a secret from the Capital. 

"You have S-E-X?" 

This made Feuilly throw back hisnhead as he laughed. "Oh my God, the boy who creamed his pants kissing Combeferre won't even say the word sex. Bahorel is gonna choke when I tell him." 

"You told them?" 

"Yeah, you're all she ever talks about, man. Courfeyrac and I share apples. This bed is comfortable but I wish I was on the floor in the closet with Courfeyrac. Courfeyrac likes raccoons and he's wrong. Courfeyrac likes weird food." 

All of those things were true. 

Courfeyrac patted his leg with his hand as he processed that information. 

"Hey, don't feel bad,"Feuilly put his hand on Courfeyrac's shoulder, "one time with Bahorel, we were making out and he came. It happens. Not to me, but to other people. And Bahorel was like twenty and is like a professional fucker." 

Fucker had two meanings that Combeferre knew and Bahorel was a professional fucker under both definitions, which was impressive. 

"You know how to play District 10 Hold 'Em?" Feuilly asked, moving away to dig through his bag for his cards. "Might be nice to do something easy for a minute." 

Courfeyrac shrugged and Combeferre took the chair next to him, then scooted it so they were close enough to hold hands. Combeferre could see all of Courfeyrac's cards, but he didn't look. Valjean called that integrity. Instead he focused on the banter and laughter of Courfeyrac and Feuilly. 

He lost, like he always did.

Its's been a long time, huh? Sorry y'all 😂

Kudos and comments appreciated.

Maybe something bad happened to Jehan’s mom. Maybe there had been an accident and even though she really wanted to come and get them, she couldn’t. 

Maybe the elevator was broken.

Jehan got out of the chair they moved, their knees aching under their weight. It had been a long time since their body hurt from lack of sleep. They cracked their knuckles then let their finger hover over the button for the elevator. 

It must have been broken.

Their mom was waiting in the lobby, in her tall shoes, pressing the button over and over with her long polished fingernails. They wondered what color her nails were today. Jehan hadn’t been watching TV, not since before they went to the base in 2 and their life was good, so they weren’t sure what the style was. Their mom was always fashionable. They inherited their snappy dressing from her; they could tell. 

She never wore what their Not Dad called sensible shoes. Even if she knew about the stairs on the patios, which were supposed to be a secret, she wouldn’t be able to climb them. They were made of metal grate and her heels would go through the holes and snap like matchsticks. 

There was one time Grantaire made Jehan go through a whole book of matches. They had to strike each and every one successfully. Grantaire said that lots of people had never used matches, and Jehan needed the practice if they were going to play. 

Grantaire said he’d send Jehan matches if he could. 

Maybe Grantaire was waiting in the lobby, too. 

No, that was silly. Grantaire had abandoned them.

Jehan’s mom though, that was just a big misunderstanding. She was waiting in the lobby. The elevator had to be broken. 

She might have even been crying. That’s how much this delay was upsetting her. She missed Jehan so much. That’s what she’d say when the elevator was fixed. Crying always ruined her make-up, and she hated that. 

She missed them enough to do it anyway. 

Of course they’d have to stop somewhere private so she wasn’t seen in public like that. That’d be bad for her image and her image was important. People thought she was fun. She’d sacrificed a lot for her image, and she was crying anyways. 

Her image was one of the many reasons Jehan stayed in 8 back when they lived together and she had a Capital party. 

Maybe that’s why she wasn’t here. She knew she’d cry, especially when she dropped them off at the end of the very fun time they were sure to have. She was dreading their separation so much that maybe she didn’t want to see them at all. 

No. 

Jehan shook their head, banishing the thought. 

Obviously the elevator was just broken. 

And anyway, it wasn’t like there was a rule that Jehan had to stay with Feuilly. This was a transition to them moving back in with her, but this time in her Capital house. Once they saw each other again, she wasn’t going to want them to be separated for even a moment. 

At least until Jehan lost the Games. 

Their finger ghosted over the button, stroking the translucent plastic. They;d be able to hear the elevator in seconds. If they wanted confirmation, they could get it. It wouldn’t take very long. 

All they’d have to do was move their arm, just a little. 

Clearly, it was a mechanical problem. And when they found that out, they could climb down the emergency stairs with their suitcase. That’s why those stairs were there, in case the elevator broke. She’d be so impressed by how great at climbing they were. 

Grantaire used to be. 

Before he left. 

Once they saw their mom in the lobby though, she wouldn’t leave. She would never leave them again, because how could she? They were smart and clever and well behaved, and hardly ever threw fits anymore. They were good. The time out did its job, and now they could be with their mom. 

She really just wanted a well behaved child. 

Who could fault her for that? 

It wasn’t good behavior to keep her waiting. 

Jehan took a deep breath and pressed the button. 

The button lit up. 

It was the same brilliant white as it always was. They exhaled the breath they hadn’t realized they were holding. Once the pulleys and wires started to move, their shoulders fell forward. 

When the door dinged open and no one was inside, Jehan went back to their chair. The one they’d moved into the hallway to wait for her. 

There had to be another reason. 

A better reason. 

It’d take more than a broken elevator to stop their mom doing something she wanted to do.

"We need to talk!" Bell was hitting the train door with her fist. 

Combeferre woke up from where they fell asleep slouched over the table. He still had cards in his hands and his back was very stiff. 

"Courfeyrac is missing!" Otto shouted. 

Courfeyrac was missing? Combeferre shot up and immediately jumped to his feet. He'd have to find Courfeyrac. He knew all of Courfeyrac's hiding spots, so it would be easy. 

"I'm not missing," Courfeyrac groaned. 

That was the fastest he had ever found Courfeyrac. He was right next to them at the table, sipping a cup of orange juice. 

Otto and Bell never gave them juice. 

Which was fine because juice, especially the kind with pulp, was disgusting. The Bishop had given them all juice and Combeferre only liked apple juice. Feuilly knew to only give him apple juice and only half a cup. He wouldn't drink a full glass. 

"You were missing!" Otto's voice was too loud so Combeferre covered his ears. "Come back to the house, we've got a surprise for Combeferre." 

"I hate surprises," Combeferre said.

Feuilly, who was also drinking a cup of juice, laughed. It wasn't a mean laugh, they didn't think, but it was a laugh at them. 

"We can't go anywhere until Combeferre gets new makeup," Feuilly said, rolling his eyes. "You'll have to wait." 

Otto grumbled something, but he couldn't hear the exact words over Courfeyrac's peels of laughter. Feuilly was flapping his lips and using his hand like a puppet as Otto complained, and something about that was funny. Combeferre laughed, so it seemed like he got the joke.

"We're gonna have to work on that laugh " Feuilly rolled his eyes one last time as he downed the rest of his juice.

Combeferre couldn't think of any ways to improve a laugh. Was it the wrong volume? That seemed unlikely. And it was clearly an appropriate place to laugh, since everyone else in the car was laughing. He hadn't done anything wrong. 

"I like her laugh!" Courfeyrac argued. 

"Of course you do," Feuilly said softly, putting his cup down. 

"I do," Courfeyrac nodded vigorously. "You don't appreciate her! She's perfect the way she is!" 

Hearing that made the tips of Combeferre's ears hot.

"Sure," Feuilly shrugged, "whatever you say, dude." 

Courfeyrac frowned, but Combeferre didn't say anything. He took the two pieces of plain bread Feuilly gave him for breakfast, then halved an apple with his hands. 

"You want some?" Combeferre held out the apple half. Feuilly reached his hand out, like he normally did at breakfast, but Courfeyrac pushed him away. 

"She was trying to give it to me," Courfeyrac snarled, grabbing the offered section of apple in his hands and eating it, core and all, before anyone could say anything.

Combeferre was just trying to get rid of the part of the apple he wasn't going to eat. Anyone could have the apple. If no one wanted it he'd have it for lunch. It'd be brown and gross, but it felt wrong to throw away food.

"I'm gonna let you in on a little secret," Feuilly sighed, scrubbing his eyes with his palms. 

Combeferre didn't like secrets. It took a lot of energy to remember what he could tell other people and what he was supposed to keep to himself. So far Feuilly had only told him secrets while Bahorel or Joly played an instrument as loudly as they could, and all of those secrets were about the Capital. This seemed like it was a secret about apples. 

Maybe he wasn't supposed to eat these apples. Combeferre waited with the apple in front of his open mouth. His face itched, but if the apples were poison or something else worrisome, he needed to know. 

"I don't give two fucks about your crush," Feuilly turned to look at Courfeyrac. 

The secret was not about the apple, so Combeferre started to eat. It wasn't too mealy or too juicy. He ate slowly, making sure he chewed every bite. Usually he ate the apple after his bread, but the secret messed up his routine. He took a deep breath and decided he would just finish the apple. 

"It's gross you're dating her," Courfeyrac's nose was wrinkled like when they cleaned the bathrooms at the inn. "You're supposed to mentor the tributes, not fuck them."

"Sorry I can kiss someone without making a mess in my pants," Feuilly laughed. 

Courfeyrac shoved Feuilly. He put his palms against Feuilly's shoulders, then pushed him backwards. Feuilly didn't move very much and he didn't react.

"Let's paint your face, huh?" Feuilly asked, but when he asked like that it wasn't a question, he was telling Combeferre what they were going to do. He thought that phrasing it as a question made it sound nicer, which was dumb.

"You're not gonna fight me?" Courfeyrac said as Combeferre ate a piece of his bread. 

"No," Feuilly laughed. "I don't fight unless the Capital is making me box Baz." 

"They make you box?" Courfeyrac asked, putting his hands at his side where they belonged. 

"Yeah, it's my talent," Feuilly shrugged, getting a rag wet with warm water as Combeferre finished his breakfast. "You shouldn't sleep in your makeup." 

Combeferre knew that. He ate the last piece of bread too quickly and nodded. His bedtime list said wash off makeup, if applicable, just so he'd remember. He didn't normally fall asleep at the table. There was a routine in the apartment. 

He didn't complain as Feuilly scrubbed old makeup off his face, even though it was a gross feeling. It was like a cicada shedding a shell, but instead of a very cool trinket after the fact he just had a raw face and a white rag that was stained beige. 

Combeferre sat patiently in his seat as Feuilly got him a new outfit. Another pantsuit, this one in navy blue with a skin colored bra. He started to change, shrugging off his jacket. By the time Feuilly was unfastening the bra for him, Courfeyrac had his hands over his eyes. 

"Shouldn't she go to the bathroom to do that?" Courfeyrac asked, hands still covering his face.

"It's just styling," Feuilly laughed, adjusting their bra straps. He helped Combeferre into his new underwear, which of course was another thong and not anything remotely comfortable, and then finished the outfit. "Uncover your eyes, don't be a prude." 

"I just thought we'd be married or at least engaged before I saw her nipples!" Courfeyrac whined. 

"Dear Lord," Feuilly rolled his eyes as he started to apply foundation. 

Feuilly didn't really know how to do makeup, but he practiced for the past month, having Combeferre sit completely still as he did what he called face painting. The first week every time he messed up, he said '"fucking pasty ass white boy," and Bahorel laughed even though Combeferre was pretty sure Bahorel was white.

Feuilly said he didn't want to be stuck on a train for two weeks with a stylist. Being stuck with a peacekeeper was bad enough. 

"When we get home I'm not wearing makeup in the apartment. Or a bra." 

Courfeyrac looked down as Feuilly laughed again. "Yeah, I hear you. We won't dress up unless we have a party. Blink for me." 

The mascara wouldn't stab him in the eye, but it felt like it would. He blinked until Feuilly told him to stop. 

Once Combeferre's lipstick was on, Feuilly changed. Combeferre looked down at his plate and focused on not touching his face. He had to make sure he didn't touch his face all day. 

"Is there no privacy in the Capital?" Courfeyrac asked. 

"No," Combeferre answered. He remembered the barracks, and he was going to mention it, but that was a secret. No one in 3 knew they went to war and lost district 12. He wasn't supposed to know either, but Javert told them all. 

It only took Feuilly five minutes to get ready. All he had to do was change clothes and put on his shoes. And his shoes were flat. 

"Wonder what your folks want," Feuilly asked as they stepped out of the train. A peacekeeper looked at them, then nodded. 

Courfeyrac ran his fingers across his arm like a beetle. 

"You two are perfect for each other," Feuilly snorted. 

"If we're eating lunch, I refuse to eat anything I don't like." 

They weren't eating lunch. Otto and Bell wanted to show Feuilly some furniture that they said was from before the Dark Days. Feuilly seemed very interested as Bell talked about knotty pine chairs that were in the basement. 

Combeferre didn't know anything about furniture from before the Dark Days, but Courfeyrac was leading them into the basement. "If you want to see the chairs, they're through there," Courfeyrac grumbled, pointing toward the crawl space. 

Combeferre was starting to think they weren't actually going to look at chairs. 

He went first, since he knew the area, and sat in front of the computer. The man in a red uniform, the Chief, who gave him the message to pass along, was waiting for them on the screen. 

"Faraday," he smiled, "it's good to see you again." 

"You sent me to die." 

"Holy fuck," Feuilly whispered as he sat down.

"Graft Feuilly, my name is Jean Enjolras and I'm with 13."

"With 13?" Feuilly grabbed Combeferre's hand even though he hated being touched. 

"With 13," Enjolras nodded, smiling. 

"13 is just as bad as the Capital," Combeferre snarled. "You sent me to die for your cause." 

Feuilly didn't look so excited anymore. 

"It's complicated-" 

"It's not," Combeferre snapped. "I was recruited to ensure Maxwell Courfeyrac won his game which meant I had to die. Then you couldn't even spell his last name correctly so I went to play for no reason and now I have to wear makeup and tall shoes and have nightmares. This is your fault." 

"The Capital gave us 12," Enjolras said, not smiling or frowning. "We are making progress. Soon they'll surrender more territory and Lamarque-" 

"They won't," Feuilly shook his head. "Is that your plan? Hope they surrender?"

Enjolras' face didn't change.

"You sent him to certain death. It's a fluke he survived." 

"That's the Capital's fault she nearly died," Enjolras argued. "If it wasn't for the Games, no one would die. It's a barbaric practice. We are going to make a play for 11 during this year's Games." 

"11?" Feuilly asked, perking up and letting go of Combeferre's hand. "You can free 11?" 

"Yes, but we need your assistance." 

This man was going to put Feuilly's life in danger. He didn't need to sit here and listen to this. 

"These aren't pre Dark Days!" Combeferre shouted. "The patina is all wrong" The books the Bishop let them read about coins talked about patina, so it seemed like something to say about old furniture. "I'm going back to the train! Don't let them take advantage of you with these chairs, Feuilly!"

Combeferre stormed off, crawling as fast as he could through the crawl space. He raced out of the basement and through the inn, and didn't slow down until he was safely in the train, completely out of breath.

There was no rule that they had to stay in 11's apartment. 

Okay, maybe there was a rule. 

If Feuilly asked, did they know they weren't supposed to leave the apartment, they would pretend to be dumb. It wasn't like he wrote the rules down. 

Maybe he did, but they weren't going to search for it. That was called plausible deniability. There wasn't an obvious note from their perch right in front of the elevator. They weren't going to look any further. If Feuilly wanted them to have the note, he would have put it right in their hands. 

Feuilly probably couldn't write a list of rules that wasn't full of mistakes so big that they meant what Feuilly thought they meant, anyway. 

They had layers of deniability, if it came to that. 

Which it wouldn't, because there wasn't anyone to catch them poking around in the other apartments. Sure the Capital was always watching, but a peacekeeper wouldn't call Joly and say that Jehan did one of his puzzles. Bahorel wouldn't get a ping that they hit his punching bag. No one who could punish them would ever know if they touched the old books Valjean wouldn't even let them look at.

The Capital only watched for things they cared about, and Jehan wasn't a thing anyone cared about. 

They decided they'd start in apartment 1 and work their way up to 12. If they were quiet, they'd be able to hear the elevator, just in case. After two days of waiting, it seemed obvious that their mom wasn't coming, but just in case, they'd listen. 

When they reached the lobby, it was empty. They never looked around the lobby, which was sort of a shame. Tall ceilings were plastered with blue titles and along with thirteen golden stars. Twelve stars were small and dull, those obviously represented the districts, and in the middle a humongous star glittered. It was pretty, especially the center star. 

1's apartment was boring; the same furniture as all the rest, the same empty carpets. The tributes from the 48th games didn't leave anything behind, not that they could see. There were no diaries or notes etched into the drywall, just a clean apartment. 

They didn't even spend an hour snooping before they got bored. It was just an apartment. There wasn't anything fun. 

2 would be fun. If nothing else, Joly had so many puzzles, and they were all already open so he wouldn't know. They weren't supposed to touch things without permission, but Joly wouldn't know that they put together the 2000 piece sunflower puzzle. Joly said it was too hard for them, which it wasn't because they were very smart, but he didn't listen to reason. They were only allowed to do the puzzles with less than 200 pieces because everyone thought they were a baby. 

They weren't a baby. They were going to be reaped. A fight to the death with babies would have been as boring as 1's apartment. 

The elevator was just silver. They didn't hate silver, but it would have been flashier to make it gold. A golden elevator would have impressed all the tributes, even the ones from the fancy districts. It would have even impressed Jehan, which was a feat. 

Jehan had seen everything cool ever made, they were pretty sure. All they hadn't seen was the sunflower puzzle completed, whatever was behind Feuilly and Combeferre's door, and Valjean's old books. 

They were going to see everything worth seeing in Panem before they died. 

Normally, that thought might have made them a little bit sad, but Grantaire once told them they were lucky. 

Thinking of Grantaire made them sad, but not so sad they had to sit and cry. They just needed to sit. They weren't going to cry, not about Grantaire. 

They weren't going to cry about anything.

Bahorel's couch was the same brown leather couch as all the others, but it had a hand stitched quilt thrown over the back. Joly said his Baah made it, but they didn't know what a Baah was. To them, it sounded like a sheep, but the stitching was even and Jehan did think sheep could even sew. 

Judging by the handiwork, a Baah was a person, or at least an animal with opposable thumbs. 

So either a human or the most gifted possum on the planet. Joly would have a possum best friend, though, and that friend would make them a flower quilt as a gift. It seemed like something from a book, but a lot of the time Joly didn't seem like a real person. 

The quilt was soft. They normally didn't get to touch this, either. There were so many things they couldn't touch. They tried not to think about that normally, but it was so quiet alone. Soft yellows and greens blended together in a patchwork as they spread the blanket over their lap. 

How would anyone punish them if they got caught? They were already alone, their appetite was gone, and they'd be dead by the end of July; that put things into perspective. Death seemed like the ultimate punishment and that was already going to happen. 

Without thinking, they wiped their face with Joly's blanket. A glob of snot smeared across a leaf, but they didn't care. It wasn't their blanket. They couldn't even get in trouble anymore. 

With that realization, they crumpled the quilt into a heap and threw it on the ground. 

No one could stop them. 

Next, went the twin lamps that rested on the side tables. Both lamps were lighter than they looked and they each shattered into a hundred ceramic shards. The bulbs shattered into a powder so fine they couldn't even tell they were once glass. 

Is this what people skied on? Did they break light bulbs for skiing? They leaned down, careful not to step in the mess, and touched the glass with their hands. Glass pricked their finger and blood seeped to the surface. 

It didn't hurt that bad. They weren't crying because their finger was bleeding. 

They were crying because they were sad. And, very soon, they would stop crying because they weren't supposed to be a crybaby bitch about everything. Grantaire didn't like that. 

But Grantaire wasn't there. He wasn't anywhere. They stomped off to Bahorel's room, the one he shared with Feuilly, and started to wail on the punching bag he hung from the ceiling. Jehan did not put on the red boxing gloves that were too big, but they did make sure their thumb wasn't tucked inside their fist.

They hit the bag as hard as they could. When their hands started to ache too bad, they started kicking it. When their feet hurt, they headbutted the stupid thing, sweaty and out of breath. 

Exhausted, they sat on the floor and watched the black bag swing from side to side. 

That felt surprisingly good. 

Once they caught their breath, they stood up and started to punch again. That's why Bahorel did this. This punching bag was great. 

It was so fantastic it made their stomach growl. They hadn't felt hungry since everyone left. 

Jehan rode the elevator up to 11, and realized, in a closed room, that they were starting to stink. They hadn't planned on showering, just getting a snack so they could go back to hitting, but maybe they needed to. 

Maybe they could redo their hair, put it in a high ponytail so the braids wouldn't whack them in the back. In their closet were what Bahorel called play clothes; colorful shorts made of cotton and white t-shirts they colored on with markers. If they put on shoes, they'd be able to really kick the hell out of that bag. 

That'd feel good. 

Jehan showered quickly, changed, then checked in the fridge. Not only was it stocked like Feuilly said it was, it was full of little containers of food with notes on top.


Chicken Alfredo with BroccoliMicrowave for 30 seconds without lid, stir, then microwave for an additional 30 seconds. Repeat until hot. (please actually eat the broccoli Jehan)Love, Feuilly


That wasn't what Feuilly's handwriting looked like, but it made them smile all the same. They knew how to heat up leftovers, but Feuilly left them instructions, just in case. 

Feuilly loved them. 

They cried as they worked the microwave, and kept crying as they held the too hot plastic on the elevator ride back to 2. 

Sniffling, they ate the entire bowl at 2's table, even the broccoli. They put the fork and bowl in the sink, then drank from the faucet with cupped hands. The food was tasteless, even though they usually liked alfredo. 

Once their hands were dry, they started to scout around the apartment again. Reluctantly they sweeped up the broken lamps, just so they wouldn't accidentally hurt themself, not because they felt bad for breaking Bahorel's things. 

They used a wet rag to clean the snot off Joly's blanket only because they were not an animal, not because of any underlying guilt. Everyone was off having a great time with their family, and they were here, alone. If anything, everyone should feel bad for them. 

Once the place was clean, they went back to punching and kicking. This time they screamed, too, since there was no one to tell them to 'shut the fuck up, its past midnight.' They yelled as loud as they could and hit the bag with all their strength. 

When they were sweaty and completely exhausted, they grabbed the 2000 piece sunflower puzzle and dumped all the pieces onto the table. 

It wasn't an easy puzzle, but with the Hunger Games highlights channel that no one else liked playing in the background, they started to separate the pieces. 

Pieces with a flat edge had to go first. Joly taught them that. Anything that wasn't an edge had to go back into the box. 

The rerun wasn't anyone they knew. They'd hoped to see Joly's game, or at least Feuilly's. They wanted to see their friends, but this was just a desert landscape with the occasional lizard and cactus. All of the tributes looked dehydrated from the way their eyes sunk into their faces, except one girl. 

Clearly that girl was going to be the winner. Someone must have been sending her water. 

If it was Jehan, no one would have to send them water, because cactuses had water. There were saguaros, and they knew that water was poison, but the water from a prickly pear was fine. 

It didn't seem like any of the tributes figured that out. The game was still young, at least in this clip, since there were over a dozen names. 

Garnet was the winner. They'd seen this one before. She was the dark skinned girl from 1, a career. Her hair was shiny and long and her cheekbones were very high. She said her name funny, with a flourish at the end, and they always liked her interviews. 

It took her three days to remember that cactuses had water, but she won because she finally remembered. Maybe one of the mentors told her through a note. She got lots of sponsors, so hopefully one of the careers knew. 

Bahorel told them all the careers were pretty stupid, so maybe she just got lucky. Maybe the Capital wanted her to win, since she was so pretty. 

Something about that thought made them mad and they went back to beating the shit out of the punching bag. Bahorel said beating the shit out of something meant you hit it hard. He explained it to them when he accused them of beating the shit out of a can of soup, since the sliced carrots were stuck to the metal. 

Feuilly complained and said Bahorel should say beat the stuffing out of the can. Joly said, beat the tar out of it, which was basically nonsense like most of the idioms Joly used, but Feuilly said no, peacekeepers in 11 said that. Then Combeferre, who no one even asked, said Jehan was just hitting the can, call it hitting, that's what it was.

They all somehow settled on beating the crap out of the can, but Jehan was alone and they controlled their own thoughts most of the time, so they were beating the shit out of the punching bag.

And they did that until they stumbled into Bahorel's bed and fell asleep.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Miss Combeferre,” a peacekeeper who was not Javert said as he left Otto and Bell’s, “you need an escort.” 

That was dumb, because he killed a girl with his bare hands. What were the factory workers in 3 going to do to him? He would win every time. 

It wasn’t worth fighting. Valjean, who seemed like a nice man, especially since he knew the Bishop, said that arguing with Capital people was a fruitless exercise, which Combeferre didn’t understand immediately, and then Valjean explained that he meant nothing ever came from it, which he could have just said the first time. 

Also the Bishop, who raised him, said that he should listen to peacekeepers on the first instruction, for his own safety, so fine, this peacekeeper could follow him. He turned and looked at the helmet where eyes were supposed to be, his hands not in the very small pockets his suit pants had, because his hands were not ever supposed to be where a peacekeeper couldn’t see them, then nodded. 

Combeferre was too tired to talk. 

The peacekeeper followed them as he left the lobby of the inn. The peacekeeper didn’t know that everyone was talking to 13 in the basement; they probably didn’t know that 13 was still around. 

There was a lot that people didn’t know. 

“Where are we going?” the peacekeeper asked, the voice robotic. 

Even as a professional detail, Combeferre wasn’t allowed to know anything about this person. What was he going to do? According to Bahorel, winning the Games meant that the Capital owned your ass, which was an odd way to say that Combeferre had to listen to every order the Capital gave. 

“Where are we going?” 

Oh, right. He had forgotten to answer the question. That was dangerous. He was supposed to answer peacekeepers, and he was making mistakes because he was angry. 

Combeferre would not win an unarmed fight against a peacekeeper. 

“Where are we going?” 

“Um,” Combeferre kept walking. Um was an answer, right? He didn’t know where he was going. He was going away. Could he say that? “Away,” he tried. 

“Alright,” the peacekeeper dragged the word out longer than was strictly necessary. It sounded very strange, and if Combeferre talked like that he would have been corrected. If he said alright with seven Ls, then Otto and Bell would have disciplined him. 

The peacekeeper didn’t ask anymore questions from him, they just walked five paces behind him. He started to meander, which was a needlessly fancy way to say he was walking through the streets. 

Combeferre had done this before. When the peacekeepers came to board up the Bishop’s house and he didn’t have a new place to live, he wandered through town. And he liked wandering okay, at least until he got caught rooting through Otto and Bell’s dumpster and then basically had to agree to die today or die in a couple years. 

It was really strange that he won his game.

He didn’t dwell on it too much, because it made him as uncomfortable as the make-up Feuilly put on him, but he had prepared to die. Mentally, he spent a long time preparing to die. It was like studying for a big test only to be told the teacher had canceled all tests. 

Or, more aptly, the teacher had rescheduled the test, but at an indeterminate date in the future. The test would now be a surprise. It wasn’t like he’d never die now.

Everyone died, but now he wouldn’t know when. 

He walked past the school, and the kids he went to class with, back before he dropped out on account of the Bishop dying, were all inside. His district still had school, even in the summer. District 3 couldn’t be left to think for too long. 

Sure, they got the Hunger Games off, but they were supposed to be in public, watching on huge projectors, so the peacekeepers could see them. District 3 was known for their rebellious streak, at least according to Bell, who maybe didn’t know what she was talking about, because she was dumb enough to trust 13. 

He didn’t know how he was supposed to feel about these people who’d decided they could kill him. How did that make them any better than the Capital? At least the Capital was upfront. They killed people to prove they could kill them, and they didn’t paint it like it was a grand thing. 

The Hunger Games were necessary to punish the districts every year, just in case they forgot how powerful the Capital was. 

Clearly, Otto and Bell didn’t watch the Games close enough. Combeferre had nearly died because of a handful of enhanced racoons, and he trained hard to be able to make it to the end of the game. If the Capital could do that to a racoon, what could they do to a peacekeeper’s firearm? What could they do to an airplane? 

3 clearly wouldn’t win in hand to hand combat with the Capital. 

“This isn’t public property?” the peacekeeper asked, like they weren’t sure. 

3’s property laws were fairly straight forward. He had read a book on property law in 3, and this house with the boards on it was government owned. Combeferre had walked on instinct and ended up at the Bishop’s house. 

“What are you doing?” 

“I’m not sure,” Combeferre said, staring at the abandoned house as he paced. “Are you from 3?” 

“No ma’am,” the peacekeeper stammered. 

“I used to live here.” 

“Did you want to see it?” the peacekeeper asked. 

Combeferre shrugged because he didn’t know what he wanted.

He knew that a big part of him wanted the Bishop alive, even if a lot of the time he was ignored. The Bishop must have known about him enough to tell his friend Valjean about his existence, even if it was just a nickname. Maybe the Bishop didn’t know his real name, but he knew Combeferre. 

The Bishop was a man who knew that Combeferre belonged in his house, on his little bed, next to all the other children with nowhere to go. The Bishop let him read, and the Bishop spent a lot of time when he was small teaching him to communicate like other people. Combeferre never felt like he mastered those lessons, but the Bishop had, in aggregate, spent a lot of time teaching him. 

For the first time during the walk, Combeferre stopped moving. 

The grass around the house was dead. There wasn’t much grass in 3; it was a place full of concrete and dirty smoke, but there was a little bit in front of the Bishop’s house. He liked grass and now it was dead. 

Maybe the grass went to heaven with him? Did grass go to heaven? 

He started to walk again, back in the direction he came. 

There was no way grass went to heaven. What would grass heaven even look like? That was just nonsensical. No one went around telling grass about the Bible, warning them not to talk about it with other people, because they’d get in trouble. Grass couldn’t talk. 

They could communicate with signals sent off through their root systems, but they weren’t having discussions about the Lord. The smell grass made when cut was because it was injured. When Combeferre told the Bishop that after he did yard work one day, unprompted, he’d gotten a strange look he couldn’t place, and then a simple reply of “interesting.” 

“You just wanted to sight see?” the peacekeeper asked as they were back in front of the inn. Apparently he only knew how to get three places without thinking, and none of them were very good. 

“I want to look at those chairs again,” Combeferre said, his jaw set. The peacekeeper nodded, then stood in the entryway, just like before. 

It turned out he didn’t need a minder inside the inn. 

The crawlspace didn’t bother him, but Feuilly’s voice oohing and ahhing at the computer screen made him angry. He didn’t understand why he was so mad. 

Maybe it was because the man clearly had no idea what the Capital was actually like. He seemed to think Grantaire would fix their problems, but Grantaire wasn’t even around. He was like Jesus, but no books were written in Grantaire’s honor. 

Except the one Victor book everyone got when they one. Combeferre would have a book by the next game, and all the kids in 3 would have to read it. Combeferre read the Bishop in school; it was required. 

“The Victor from 8 is a drunk!” he announced in a fierce whisper. “Your ally on the inside is useless!” 

“Grantaire?” the voice on the computer asked. 

When he climbed to where he could see the man in red on the screen, Combeferre snarled. “Grantaire is missing! No one even knows where he is! Feuilly told me he is probably dead!” 

J. Enjolras, as it said on his uniform, crumbled forward. Combeferre wanted to punch the computer, but that was not allowed. He wasn’t allowed to break things that weren’t his. He didn’t want to get punished by Otto and Bell. “What?”

“Yeah,” Feuilly put his hand on Combeferre’s shoulder, so he shook it off. He didn’t like being touched and Feuilly knew that. “Yeah, Grantaire, the Victor from 8 is missing. We looked for a couple weeks, but no one could find him. He’s got a morphling thing.” 

“He’s got a morphling thing?” the man asked. “My fiance has a morphling thing?” 

“Oh no,” Feuilly turned to Combeferre, and shook his head. “No, be quiet now. I need to talk to him and you need to not interrupt me, okay?” 

It wasn’t okay, but the correct response to someone asking okay as a question was to nod, so he did. Rules for talking to other people were so nonsensical. He didn’t want to nod, but that was what he was supposed to do. 

“So you’re Jean, the Gamemaker’s eldest kid?” Feuilly asked. 

“I’m his only child,” the man in red said. 

Feuilly nodded, even though that was factually incorrect. 

“No,” Combeferre interrupted, even though he was supposed to be quiet. People couldn’t just have bad information. That wouldn’t help anyone. “The Gamemaker is Jehan’s dad.” After Combeferre said it, he realized that Jean, the man in red, and Jehan, the unstable eleven year old, sounded the same when said aloud. “Jehan Prouvaire, not Jean you.” 

“Combeferre,” Feuilly exhaled as the man in red blinked a lot. If it was a computer glitch, it was a very strange one, but no one needed to blink that often, so maybe it was.

“Isn’t it strange how both of the Gamemaker’s kids have a name that sounds the same?” Combeferre asked, his rage subsiding. He’d never thought about that before. “Why would you name both of your kids basically the same thing?” 

“Fucking Christ,” Feuilly closed his eyes momentarily. 

“Christ didn’t fuck,” he explained. That was a really big part of Christ as Combeferre understood the stories.

“Look, Combeferre is,” Feuilly turned and looked at them, then turned back to the monitor. “In 11, some of the kids are what the adults call slow-” 

“I’m not slow,” Combeferre said, frowning. Sometimes adults in 3 would call him slow, which didn’t ever make any sense to him. “I run very fast. There is a video of me running very fast and that’s part of why I won my game. I have quick reflexes because I trained them.” 

“Slow is a euphemism for stupid,” Feuilly explained, his hands over his eyes. “Combeferre is very literal and very bad with people.” 

Oh, that was true. He nodded, but then added, “I’m not stupid. A stupid person can’t win the Hunger Games.” 

“So no hope of making her the public face?” the man in red mimicked Feuilly and rubbed his temples. “And how do you all know Prouvaire? He lives in 8.” 

“They stay with Grantaire-” 

“Stayed, Grantaire is missing,” Combeferre corrected. “Right now Jehan is in the Victor’s apartment building alone or with their mom, but Feuilly told me that they didn’t think their mom would actually come.”

The man in red nodded. “Yeah, when R came home from his game, Jehan was left alone by his parents. I doubt Mrs. Prouvaire, who has murdered thousands of people through neglect of factory infastructure, will spend an evening with her son.” 

“Jehan isn’t a boy or a girl and it matters a lot to them,” Combeferre explained. Being called a girl didn’t matter that much to him, so he didn’t correct people every two seconds like Jehan. He knew he was a boy, and most of the people close to him knew, and that was fine. “And they’re playing in the Games next year, so everyone is upset about that. Jehan is going to die and I thought they are fun to talk to sometimes when they aren't being cruel.” 

The man in red, Jehan’s brother and Grantaire’s fiance, did that thing where he blinked a bunch again. 

“If Jehan is Grantaire’s sibling in law, it makes more sense to me why he used to take care of them.” 

Feuilly elbowed them in the side then said, “be quiet.” 

Combeferre was not supposed to ask why when Feuilly asked him to be quiet in front of another person. It meant he was talking about something he wasn’t allowed to talk about, or he was getting dangerously close to a bad topic. Feuilly did that to keep him safe. 

“The Prouvaire factories killed all of Grantaire’s family,” Enjolras said, hands on his face. 

“What?” Feuilly gawked. 

“Yeah, he wasn’t the biggest fan of Jehan Prouvaire, and neither was I. Prouvaire is a spoiled rich kid and if the Capital insists on killing people, it might as well be one of their own.” 

“Jehan is eleven,” Feuilly grit his teeth. “You are okay with an eleven year old dying?” 

“They’ll be twelve when they play,” the man in red said, and to Combeferre that didn’t make any marked difference. He wasn’t great at facial expressions, but according to Feuilly’s, it didn’t seem like it made a difference to him, either. 

“Oh my God, you’re a monster,” Feuilly whispered. “13 is just as bad as the-” 

“No, we are not!” the man interrupted. “We are not!”

“These chairs fucking suck!” Feuilly screamed, looking at the ceiling. “Who would want these goddamn chairs? If these are my only options for seating, I’m just gonna stand all the time! I mean, really! What the fuck?” 

“We give everyone in 12 who needs food rations, and we do it without asking for anything in return,” the man in red said. He did not smile at all. “We will feed everyone in 11, Graft. You and I both know that for cause of death in 11, starvation is second only to peacekeeper interactions.” 

“These chairs make me wish my landmine had gone off!” 

Oh, Bahorel gave him private instructions on what to say if Feuilly threatened to kill himself or claimed he wished he was dead. 

“Bahorel says he loves you and he will tell Javert.” 

“Oh, he coached you?” Feuilly twisted and looked at Combeferre, who nodded. “I’m not going to kill myself in the basement of this shitty inn, okay?” 

That was convincing enough for Combeferre. 

“Look, I want better for the people in 11, but if Jehan plays, I’m going to support them in the Games,” until they die went unsaid. “But sure, if a situation arises where I can support a different tribute, I will,” Feuilly looked up, which was what he did sometimes when he couldn’t think of a word, “line up,” he said that bit like a question, “with you.” 

“Fine,” the man in red was frowning, which was a universal sign for when a person was not fine, but Combeferre was taught not to tell people that. It made them upset for some reason. He was just telling the truth. Lying was bad, the Bishop had said. 

“Can we go to the train car?” Combeferre asked, turning just to Feuilly. “I don’t like talking with this man, I’m hungry, and Bell and Otto make me eat food I don’t like.” 

Feuilly twisted back toward the computer, “Bell and Otto are terrible people. You should know that.” 

“Otto Courfeyrac lost four sons to the Hunger Games via Reaping,” the man in red said as Combeferre started to crawl away. “He’s very serious about his fifth son winning and assisting us. I think it might, at times, cloud his judgment, but his heart is in the right place.” 

What a stupid conversation. If his heart was in the wrong place, then he’d be dead. The human circulatory system was finicky and required everything to be in near perfect order. 

“I’m going to find Courfeyrac,” Combeferre explained as he left the room. “I only get to see him for a week.”

I know it's been like 3 months but hey? I updated?

When Jehan woke up, they were convinced that she was going to come. She told Bahorel, and she told Feuilly. She was going to take Jehan for at least eleven days, since they lost the last three days to traffic, or something. Something really big must have happened because she missed Jehan. 

Bahorel said she missed them. 

Maybe Jehan’s mom would keep them forever. That’s what mom’s did right? Kids lived with their moms and she must have just forgotten that bit. 

And even if they didn’t move in with her, they were going to do something fun. 

Bahorel said. 

Jehan just needed to be patient. They sat in 2’s apartment, and they waited. She was going to come because Feuilly said she would. Feuilly wouldn’t lie. 

Not to Jehan. 

Jehan was going to go with their mom, and maybe they’d go skiing. They had an accessory that was packed just for the occasion: thick coveralls.

Their bag was upstairs in 11’s apartment. Their mom would be mad about the inconvenience if they didn’t have their things ready when she was ready to go. Jehan didn’t need to give her any reason to leave them behind. 

As quick as they could, Jehan raced up to their apartment, scaling the outside of the fire escape. They grabbed their bag, then, saddled up like a horse from 10, climbed back down. They were careful on the stairs, since they weren’t very secure, but fast, because what they were doing was important. They didn’t want to make her wait. 

They were so fast that they would have heard the elevator moving if their mom came while they were getting their things. They pulled everything out of the bag, because they could repack it all very quickly, if that’s what needed to happen. Jehan knew not to waste her time. 

They quickly jumped into their coveralls, which were bright pink. Grantaire bought the pink ones from them last year, because Grantaire didn’t want them to get cold and it snowed a lot in the Capital. Coveralls were made for skiing, but they had them just to be warm. 

Actually, Jehan had never skied but if their mom wanted to go, then all they’d need was ski shoes and lessons. Maybe she wanted to teach them, as a bonding experience. She used to leave to go skiing, when they were small. She’d call the babysitter frantically saying to come over stat because there’s fresh powder on the mountain and it was simply the best time to ski. 

Maybe she was waiting for the mountain to be ready. 

Jehan wished she’d wait with them. 

They could just sit in her car as the avoxes or whoever spread the powder out. It’d be fine to just be near her. People were supposed to talk with their mom, and they just wanted to talk. They didn’t even have to go anywhere fancy. They could wait together. 

Jehan hadn’t seen her in person since before they moved to the Capital. And they saw her once on the TV, but it was some paparazzi program, when they were 10 in the middle of the night, and she’d been on, talking about one of Bahorel’s outfits. It made him look boxy, but Jehan couldn’t tell if it was a good thing or a bad thing. 

Did their coveralls make them look boxy? 

Jehan walked to the bathroom and appraised themself in the mirror. They didn’t look like a box, but they didn’t look very good. Their forehead had red dots that Bahorel called zits, and they didn’t go away when they washed their face, but they hadn’t washed their face since everyone left. Their long hair was greasy and their arms and legs were too long.

Would she still like them?

Was she avoiding them because of how they looked? 

As quickly was they put the coveralls on, they took them off. They didn’t fit right. They pants were too short, showing their ankles, which wouldn’t work for skiing because that was where all the snow went. 

They hadn’t gotten new clothes since before their birthday, and they must have gotten taller. Inside they mostly wore dresses without sleeves, since those still fit. No one had got them new clothes, but maybe their mom would. 

They sat on the ground, folding up their clothes slowly, and stuffing them back into their bag. Once everything was cleaned up, they looked toward the elevator. They hadn’t heard it move. What if they missed the sound? 

Jehan lifted their bag, then decided that they should wait in 11. Their mom had been told to get them from 11, right? Did she get confused and think they were in District 11? That wasn’t possible, was it? 

Maybe no one told her where Jehan lived. They hadn’t talked, so maybe she just didn’t know. They needed to assist to make this process easier. They pushed the button for the elevator, which, to their relief, was still not broken, and pressed the button L, which stood for lobby. It was the first floor, which was also where 1 was, but Jehan was just going to sit on the tile floor in the lobby and wait for their mom. 

When they got off the elevator, no one was waiting, but something urgent must have needed her attention. Maybe there was a factory issue, or she was trying to prevent a factory issue, because those were bad. She was nice, and she didn’t want to hurt anyone. 

Right now, maybe their mom was fixing a broken sprinkler so there wouldn’t be anymore fires in 8. Maybe she was giving everyone raises, too, and that way they could come back to 8 and it would be safe. 

It all made sense. 

Jehan’s mom was taking so long because she was getting everything in order to bring them back to 8. 

That’s what the surprise was. 

As they sat on the floor, resting their back against their suitcase, they vibrated with anticipation. By this time tomorrow they’d be on a train back to 8, where they’d once again live with their mom and not dad. Everything was going to be perfect and living in the Capital would just seem like a bad dream.