Title: some kind of blue jean american prince
Work ID: 31112507
Author: annabeth_hamilton
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Grantaire & Éponine Thénardier, Enjolras & Cosette Fauchelevent, Combeferre & Courfeyrac & Enjolras (Les Misérables), Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Roma | Rome, Romance, Friends to Lovers, Enjolras Has Feelings, Enjolras needs a hug, Implied/Referenced Self-Harm, Suicidal Thoughts, Implied/Referenced Suicide, Artist Grantaire (Les Misérables), disappointed idealist enjolras, kinda coffeeshop?, the author is projecting on E, POV Alternating, Mostly Enjolras's POV though, Alternate Universe, Angst with a Happy Ending, Sad with a Happy Ending, Anxious Enjolras (Les Misérables), Enjolras Is Bad At Feelings, Implied/Referenced Alcohol Abuse/Alcoholism, Hurt/Comfort, Emotional Hurt/Comfort
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 14/16


     Enjolras felt alone. 



     He was in a new city, and his best friend was 

gone. 

Not dead, thank God for that, but the last words Combeferre would ever say to him were etched deep into his thoughts. 

I’m sorry it has to be this way. 





 

The pain cut deep into his stomach like a dull, rusty dagger, festering and infecting the anxiety that already dwelled so deep inside. He felt the air closing in, his breath starting to quicken. 

No, no not here. 

He grimaced and swallowed the rising panic. Rome was a beautiful and unforgiving city, he could not afford to panic here. Enjolras had no purpose here, all he knew was that he had to leave his hometown and get away

, 

away from all the pain and boiling injury and depression and hopelessness of that beautiful place. He had chosen Rome on a whim-uncharacteristic for somebody who was perceived as so calculating because he could not bear the formality and the coolness of what was technically his native land, France. Italy was warm and beautiful, and he hoped that somehow, he could find his place here.



     The bridge he stood on was a famous one, gray stone over the greenish, polluted river Tiber. His hands clutched the rough side of the bridge. Once, not long ago, he would not have dreamed of jumping off and letting the polluted waters put him to sleep forever, but now, the urge in the bag of his mind was persistent..




     E, no, stop. If nothing, you must live for the future. 




     And yet here he was, a half-broken and disappointed idealist, so beaten down by everything that has plagued him for so long that all he felt was a resounding 

nothing. 

He knew he was depressed, but he did not want a therapist. Enjolras so rarely actually connected with people that he saw no point in putting more on his parent’s health insurance. Perhaps if he’d sought help when he was younger, if he had not been so afraid of making his parents think that they had failed him, perhaps then he wouldn’t be so 

cold 

now. Perhaps if he believed in God instead of entropy he would not feel as though he would always be alone. 

Perhaps, perhaps, perhaps… 




     He needed to stop dwelling. Enjolras pushed away from the railing and passed the ridiculous fake statues posing with tourists. He would have laughed at that, once.  



     The air was cool on his neck: it was February and the sun was out, and yet it was cold. He drew the battered red fleece that he’d worn since eighth grade closer to his body and walked faster. Just being in his 

apartment, 

his new home of sorts, would be a welcome respite from the overwhelming chaos of Rome. Well, it wasn’t exactly overwhelming, but any unexpected noise drove him on edge, made his fingers curl into his hands and make him want to hit something, made his breath hasten and his chest tighten. Silence was all he wanted, really. 



     Finally, he reached the warm foyer of the apartment building. The air was at least warm, if painfully stuffy: he would open a window when he got up to his room. The woman at the desk greeted him, her voice echoed off of the gold patterned floors. Enjorlas stammered out a quiet 

hello

 at her-her name was Cosette, he thought. Once, maybe he would’ve started a conversation. Said more than hello, at least. 



     Enjolras was shaking when he finally stepped into his apartment. At least it was warm in the little living room: he’d left the heat on while he walked. There was a single armchair-he wasn’t expecting company-underneath his window and beside the empty desk, and it faced a little fireplace, some antiquated feature of the building. Enjolras hadn’t installed a TV or the like when he’d moved in, they were expensive and he didn’t care enough. If he really wanted to watch something, he could always use his laptop. The blinds were open, casting the cold winter sunlight onto the floor. It smelled faintly of the rice and eggs he’d cooked for breakfast. It was a depressing dwelling, really. 



     Enjolras sank into the armchair and curled in on himself. The blanket he had kept from all the nights with Combeferre and Courf and the rest was beneath him, and he could not even muster the will to pull it over himself. 




     Fuck, what was 

wrong 

with him. 

The empty pit within his stomach only opened as he tried to calm down. He wanted to throw up, no, eat, no, cry. But he was paralyzed. Paralyzed by everything that was still too painful to even 

think 

about. The pain was so much, and yet, it felt like absolutely nothing. Enjolras glanced towards his desk, where the pocketknife he’d had since he was a child in the midwest sat. He’d sworn this morning that he’d stop, but he was broken beyond repair. What was the point of holding out? 



     He pulled his phone out. 

No notifications. 

No surprises there. Enjolras’s speaker was still in the other room. He picked a song. 

Rocketman. 

Sounded about right. Once, his friends would have mocked him for listening to music. He was supposed to be icey and perfect, not a music-loving crier. Ah, well. He hit play and let the song play from the tinny phone speaker. 



     Calmly, he reached towards the desk. 




     I miss the Earth so much. 




     Flipped the knife out. 




     It’s lonely out in space. 



 



----------



 


     Grantaire laughed at whatever the woman said. He didn’t know 

what, 

exactly, he was just a street musician trying to make some extra cash. Leading tours at the Vatican wasn’t 

exactly 

what he’d imagined his job would be when he moved from Nebraska to Rome on a dare, but he couldn’t 

complain. 

It was his actual job to rant about some of the most interesting art in the world to loaded tourists, and he’d made plenty of friends amongst the other tour guides. All things considered, he was doing pretty well for himself. 



     “Alright, 

mon beaus, 

we are about to enter the Sistine Chapel. Please do not speak or take photos while we are inside, just appreciate the art. It is very beautiful.” Grantaire spoke with a french accent on the job. His parents were French, but he’d grown up in the midwest so he usually sounded 

very 

American. He’d learned quickly that tour guides with romantic accents got extra tips, so he’d begun imitating his mother. Eponine had 

died 

laughing at him when she’d come to visit and he’d called her 

mon poupee 

with an earnest accent. 



     Grantaire loved his life now. 



     “You may leave the Vatican after the chapel, this is the end of the tour,” Grantaire smiled like this was the best tour he’d ever done, “Bonne journee!” 



     As expected, many tourists came up to him and pressed euros into his hands, thanking him for the tour. He 

did 

enjoy giving the tours, the smiles he gave to them were genuine. Actually, he was probably as excited as they were to be there: now that he was paid for the day, he could go study the modern art section of the Vatican and look for inspiration. Grantaire painted a lot in Italy, it called to him in ways he couldn’t explain. 



      He led the group into the Sistine Chapel and grinned at their delighted gasps. It was a 

special 

room. Grantaire didn’t believe in anything, he’d decided that 

long 

ago, but it was impossible for him to deny just how special it was. He let his gaze wander towards the ceiling, pushing his wild curls out of his eyes. 



     Grantaire had been here thousands of times now, but it was still beautiful. He was glad that he could appreciate it now. 



    He smiled and headed towards the modern wing. 


"The man looked to Grantaire's artist eyes like a fallen god, Apollo himself torn from the sky and told the world would not change for him"


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Enjolras woke curled up on his armchair, darkness all around him. He must have fallen asleep soon after… all he’d done to himself last night, probably around 8pm. His sleep schedule was just erratic now. More erratic than it had been in high school when he’s taken as many AP classes as he could while running the ABC, wrangling his outgoing friends, and writing as much as he could for various movements. Yes, he’d had a reason beyond 

depression 

for his sleep deprivation. Now, he woke at four in the morning to the silence of his past. 



He was cold now. He kept the heat on, but it got reasonably cold outside at night and then carried into his room through the antiquated pipes of the building. Reluctantly, he finally drew the blanket from underneath himself and pulled it around himself.



How could he keep living like this?



Enjolras checked his phone. 

1 new notification. 




It was a text from Jehan, the one friend he was sure didn’t hate him. Enjolras remembered the night Combeferre had… yeah. He couldn’t call Courf, he was best friends with both Enjolras and Combefree but Enjolras already knew Courf would choose Combeferre every time. 



So, that cold Midwestern night, he’d called Jehan. Jehan was sweet, he’d at least listen. That was the night that he’d seen Enjolras’s cold, intelligent facade crumble, seen the bold idealist at his weakest, holding back tears and shoving the razor blades he’d hidden from his friends for so long into his hands. Jehan had said something then, something that still haunted Enjolras. 



“

I didn’t know you 

could 

be lonely, E.” 




Those words stung Enjolras even now, thousands of miles and worlds away from the baked streets and churches of home. He was 

supposed 

to be the hero. Back in his hometown, Enjolras had been so driven, even when he’d decided to do his first years of college at the local community college to save money. It was supposed to lead him to a good school, like Berkeley, or even an Ivy. Instead, he’d left after two weeks, headed here after that night. Enjolras still wanted answers, but Jehan either couldn’t or wouldn’t tell him. Bahorel and the rest had never liked Enjolras, and they hadn’t 

really 

talked except at the ABC after graduation. Had he been too cold, then? Was he now? 



The notification from Jehan read “

Hey, E. How’s beautiful italy? Hope you’re doing well! :) We should call soon :)” 




Enjolras rolled his eyes at the excessive use of smilies. He hated formality in texting, but he never understood Jehan’s tendency to use them after every sentence. Maybe he 

should 

call Jehan. It was only 8 pm there. It would be better than lying awake here, alone. Swallowing back the lump of anxiety that dwelled in his throat, Enjolras pressed the call button. Jehan picked up on the fourth ring. 



“E!” There was something in Jehan’s voice that made Enjolras regret calling, “What’s up?” 



“Uh, nothing,” Enjolras paused, “We haven’t talked in a bit,” 




Shit, why had he done this? 

Jehan was probably at a party or something. He went to the University of Kansas, on a scholarship. Enjolras could have joined him, if he had not been so ambitious after the rejections and abysmal financial aid. 



“Yeah! How are you, E?” Jehan sounded sunny, as always, but something about his tone sounded guarded. It was still black in Enjolras’s room. He could feel his heart thudding ever faster in his chest. 



“I’m…” Enjolras paused again. Jehan knew more about his mental illness than, well, anybody, just by sheer circumstances, but Enjolras was wary to admit the thoughts of eternal sleep that plagued his every step, “I’m good. It’s beautiful in Rome.” 



“I’m glad!” 



“How’s school?” 



“It’s pretty good, actually. Finals are next week, so I’m pretty busy, but everybody is so nice. I wish it wasn’t in fucking Kansas, but-” Jehan stopped, and it sounded like he was talking to somebody else, “What?” 



A pause, and then a faint voice echoed through the phone line. 


“Is that the Rome guy?” 
 Enjolras froze.


“Yep! Enjorlas, say hi to my roommate, Monty!” 



Before Enjolras even registered Jehan’s words, he was hanging up. 

Right. 

His friends all had new friends now. Or, in the case of Courf and Combeferre, were closer than ever. They didn’t need to hear about Enjolras’s life, it was, and maybe it always 

had 

been irrelevant to him. They’d mostly been friends based on circumstance, anyway. Hearing Jehan’s roommate’s voice reminded him of just that. 



His phone buzzed beside him, but he ignored it. 



It was 4:30 in the morning, and there was no way he could sleep now. He glanced towards the knife, but he couldn’t bear to do such a thing so early in the morning. The lights were still off, and he forced himself up to turn them on. Hunger panged his stomach, but the thought of forcing more cold rice down for survival was nauseating. 



Enjolras turned on the lights and glanced around. His room was gray and unfurnished, somehow the most depressing thing he had ever seen. What was he doing here? 



He had to get 

out 

of here. He couldn’t be in this room anymore. He was suffocating. 



The door opened easily, and Enjolras stumbled into the hallway. He was still wearing the jeans and pullover he’d worn for weeks now, but he didn’t have the energy to care.  The hallway was dim and empty, as it usually was. Numbly, he made his way into the foyer and eventually, onto the cobbled street. The sky wasn’t exactly black-the city lights made it more amber-and he could see easily by the streetlights. A few eager tourists were speed walking away from the river, which he faced, and towards where he knew the Trevi fountain was.  



The pullover barely protected him against the icy air, but he barely noticed that anyway. The darkness in his mind was overwhelming. He couldn’t 

stand 

anymore, couldn’t sit, either. 




You’re having a panic attack, 

he told himself, but the voice was Combeferre’s. He remembered the time after a rally when he couldn’t walk, he was shaking so bad. Combeferre had found him biting back tears, curled up on the floor of a public bathroom. He’d held Enjolras and smoothed his hair. They’d been best friends, then, and Combeferre had somehow known that his childhood friend needed the help. Marius, who he’d known even longer, had helped Enjolras with the panic attacks once, too. All people who were gone now, all Enjolras' fault. 



He was on the bridge again, now, clutching the stone railing, hunched over like he was vomiting. In his chest, he felt 

pain, 

dull and unbearable. He was broken, he knew now that he was broken and stupid and prideful beyond repair. How moving to 

Rome 

would help, Enjolras didn’t know how he’d ever thought it would.



The final realization ran through him. 



He couldn’t live like this. 



He missed his best friends, and he knew they didn’t miss him. He couldn’t make change, either. Idealism was for fools. What change had he ever made? A few recycling bins here, a pro-life billboard taken down. Nothing that somebody else couldn’t do. 



Enjolras was 

tired 

of the futility of it all.  



-------



Grantaire slung his messenger bag over his shoulder. It was a warm morning, even at 6 am, and he almost felt like he’d overdressed in brown cutoffs and a dark green, 

artfully

 ratty sweater. The blissful aroma of rich, Italian coffee and baked goods wafted through the street as it did every morning here, never failing to make Grantaire’s stomach pang happily with hunger.  He was excited for the day: he had a morning of Vatican tours, and then he could either go home and paint or play guitar in the street for extra money. 



Actually, he thought, as he did most mornings, maybe he should paint how the street looked now. Old facades and modern cafes bathed with fresh dawn. Tourists, happy but anxious to start seeing sights. Vendors, setting up. 



It was a beautiful city, even if he hadn’t always seen it that way. 



Grantaire smiled broadly at the owner of the little, slightly hidden cafe nestled between a major artery of a road and a little alley as he pushed the door open. 



“Grantaire!” Javert’s French accent always sounded like home, “Time for a coffee?” 



“Yes, thank you,” Glancing at the pastries, as he did most mornings, he added, “And a scone, if you don’t mind,” 



“

Pas de problème!" 

They’d lapsed into French, a common occurrence since Grantaire, recovering from an overdose two years ago, had come into the cafe with his exaggerated french accent and a false swagger. He’d been trying to forget, then. Now, he embraced it all. 



Grantaire took his coffee on the go, as he usually did on work mornings. On Saturdays, he had a cup with Javert, who, somehow, had learned to check up on Grantaire. The man was legalistic, yes, but he was also the most fatherly man Grantaire knew.  



The first sip of coffee was rich and a bit bitter, as the Italians liked it (And Grantaire, as his.. Previous habits indicated, he enjoyed the strong flavor). St. Peter’s Basilica and the Vatican glowed golden with the first rays of morning light as he sauntered towards them. Everything was routine, but Grantaire didn’t dread it. 



Inside the Vatican, Grantaire shrugged off his overcoat and handed it to Phil, the coat boy, and joined the group of tour guides gathered by an ornate pillar. A few greek statues dotted the room-Grantaire absently noted to study them later (which he’d been doing for years now), and it smelled vaguely like a school cafeteria. The Vatican food was 

not 

the best. 



The group greeted Grantaire when he joined them. Musichetta, the gorgeous, dark, curly-haired girl in a floral dress, turned to him. 



“‘Ey, R, how’s your morning?” As always, she sounded chipper. 



“Oh, not bad at all! It’s a nice morning,” 



“I agree!” Musichetta examined the holes in his sweater, “Your sweater looks a little ratty,”



“It’s not 

ratty, 

it’s artfully torn,”



Something in Grantaire’s tone made the group erupt in laughter. While he considered all of them friends, Musichetta was a fellow starving artist. She’d been the one to force her paints on him in the worst of it, she’d been the one to call Eponine that night. They’d been good friends ever since. 



“OK, fashion nerd,” Javier, the Spanish guide, butted in. 



Grantaire looked at his watch. It was 6:29. 

Time for tours. 




“As much as I’m enjoying getting mocked for my 

impeccable

 fashion, I’m off to work,” 



Musichetta rolled her eyes, but nodded to Grantaire as he strolled towards the greeting room, hands in his pockets. 



Grantaire wasn’t 

particularly 

awake yet, but he was good at faking it for the first group of tourists. The first group was usually good at listening to him: it was mostly eager Catholics, rushed parents with little kids who wanted to beat the crowds, and old Swedish couples in clogs (for some reason they 

all 

wore clogs, God knows why). Today, he found his group easily: they all wore the neon green lanyards holding passes that the agency Grantaire worked for gave them. He put on his earpiece: it was a part of his job, talking into a microphone so they could all hear him. 



“

Bonjour, 

everybody,” his phony French accent really came out now, “Let us begin!”


 


---



It was 9 in the morning now, and Enjolras wasn’t entirely sure what he’d been doing for five hours. The day was still new, the sun casting a brisk light on the bundled-up tourists he watched come and go. Enjolras had made his way to the Trevi fountain some time ago, he wasn’t sure why, but now he sat on the edge and stared blankly out at the laughing groups of people. Everything felt so 

dull 

to him: he barely registered the 

everything 

of the city that was supposed to be so beautiful. He was now beyond even wondering what was

 wrong 

with him: all he felt was 

pain

 strong in his heart. There wasn’t anybody he could call here, nobody he could go to force his knife and ibuprofen bottles on. There’d never been anybody at home, either. 



He’d always been alone, he knew now. His childhood friends had merely tolerated him. Almost a month ago now, he’d left the 

country 

and barely anybody had called. His family was broken, and anyway, why would they love somebody like Enjolras? He had dreams that were 

impossible 

to achieve. That fiery hope for change that kept him fighting for so long was dwindling, no, 

gone 

now, There was 

no 

point in hoping anymore. 



He’d tried, once. His name was supposed to mean something to the world someday, but here he was. A failure. 



Once, when he’d seen Rome in a magazine as a young teenager, he’d seen the works of Michaelangelo and admired the man’s idealism and boldness. Admired his talent and stubbornness against the pope. Enjolras hadn’t even gone to the Sistine Chapel and he lived a mile from it. 



Perhaps here, at the end of all things, he should. 


 


---



Grantaire wrapped up his second tour of the day with the same lopsided smile he always did. Sometimes he thought he was 

too 

aware of his unconventional charm: Grantaire wasn’t particularly attractive, but he 

was, 

in his humble opinion, hilarious and flirtatious to the bone. He’d played that aspect of himself up since he was a 16-year-old addict in the back of AP English and a nihilist to the core: people had always liked Grantaire’s easy-going manner. Sure, they’d abandoned him in the end, but he’d found his true family in Eponine and her brother. 



It was deceptively warm in the hallways of the Vatican, so much so that Grantaire pondered rolling up his sleeves. The tattoos made him hesitate though: he wasn’t ashamed of them or what they covered, but he knew he’d likely lose tips if he did so. A woman had complained about them, once, and Grantaire’s old boss had yelled at him. Since then, he’d kept sleeves on, even in the summer. 



Grantaire was exhausted, but that was no surprise considering he’d been talking for at least four hours now. He loved his job, but the middle of the morning always felt a little tedious. Well, one more tour to go, and then he’d have the best of luxuries: time to paint. He made his way back towards the greeting area for his last tour. It was crowded enough now that the domed room was almost full with tourists, and he was jostled a little as he crossed the room. Ah, well, it wasn’t as bad as the sweaty, odorous summer months. 



The group he was to lead was distinguishable by the column. Largely less ambitious families, grandparents, and a school group, as expected. Everybody blurred together after a while. Grantaire pressed his earpiece and started talking again. Or, at least, started to. 



During his sweep of the group, his eye caught a faded red pullover only a few feet away from him. Golden hair, falling in lackluster tendrils over a face so pale it looked ill. Gray eyes, piercing and hollow that met Grantaire’s gaze. A statuesque and sunken face, like the ones Grantaire so enjoyed studying in ancient paintings. A figure so lean it almost seemed waif-like. The man looked to Grantaire's artist eyes like a fallen god, Apollo himself torn from the sky and told the world would not change for him. There was an unmistakable 

pull 

to him, one that kept Grantaire staring. 



A moment’s pause. 



Grantaire took in the faded jeans and the obviously unwashed pullover. Who 

was 

this person? 



He needed to start the tour.



“Hello, everyone,” The false accent faded from his lips, leaving Grantaire’s unmistakable midwestern drawl behind. 


 


---



The tour guide, or so Enjolras guessed, caught Enjolras’s gaze. He strolled over without a care in the world, cuffed, baggy pants, and a distinct green sweater somehow brighter than the other people in the room. A dark shock of hair, pulled loosely back, against a tan,  strong face. A lopsided grin, fading as dark eyes sized up Enjolras. He seemed to be around Enjolras’s own age, maybe a little older, judging by the colorful tattoos Enjolras caught the edges of his wrist before he turned away. 



“Hello, everyone!” The man he suspected spoke in an accent Enjolras immediately recognized as one close to his own. Enjolras listened to him talk, although he barely registered what he was saying. The group started walking, Enjolras never far away from the green sweater. He thought he caught the man’s name as something almost French-sounding
, like his own. 

‘Taire. 




‘Taire, if that’s what his name was, led them through the halls of art. Enjolras had never been an art lover, but he did distantly appreciate the beauty of everything. The guide spoke with a tired, yet unmistakably true, passion for the art as he detailed the history and techniques of the statues and paintings they passed. He kept glancing towards Enjolras for some reason. Enjolras forced himself to look at the bright blues, the muted detail of the religious imagery, the maps juxtaposed between,  instead of starting at the floor: he’d come here before the end for a reason. 



An age, yet only moments later, the group reached the queue to go into the main attraction: the Sistine Chapel. Something like excitement flickered over the guide’s face as he cracked some joke about Michaelangelo. Enjolras forced himself to laugh, this seemed to catch the guide’s attention. They locked eyes again, and Enjolras looked away. Perhaps in some alternate life, he’d have tried to befriend him. 



----



Gray eyes and a statuesque face. That was all that swam in Grantaire’s vision as Apollo, as Grantaire was silently calling him, broke the gaze Grantaire had inadvertently locked him in. There really was some pull to the man, but Grantaire pushed the romantic thoughts out of his head. He was not a poet, and this man was not his muse. Grantaire led the group into the silent chapel. Well, there were always faint murmurings in the Sistine Chapel, but it was noticeably quieter than the rest of the Vatican. 



 Grantaire, for the first time in a long time, was not overwhelmed with the beauty of the chapel. He was staring at Apollo in the red pullover, staring intently at one of Grantaire’s favorite pieces in the chapel: 

The Oracle of Delphi. 

Dare he speak to him? Grantaire was not a pious man. Hesitantly, he stepped beside the man. He caught a whiff of unwashed, well, person, and hoped it was not from Apollo. 



“It’s… it’s a beautiful work,” Grantaire said softly. His mic was muted: only Apollo could hear him. Apollo did not even really seem to register Grantaire’s words. Grantaire glanced towards the man. 



Anguish was plain in his godlike features. It was almost the Greek image of despair, actually: the pursed lips and the sad eyes. Smudges dark as paint rested under his eyes, and though he was easily three or four inches taller than Grantaire, he slumped with defeat. 




Who hurt you, Apollo? 




Mental illness was ugly. Grantaire remembered glancing in the mirror in the worst of his manic episodes and not recognizing the hollow boy staring back at him. Somehow, he could tell from the hollowness of the man’s features that there was 

pain. 




He’d never been one to judge somebody so quickly, but Grantaire was an imaginative man and he could almost tangibly 

feel 

the despair from him. So lost was he in his summation of the very real Apollo beside him, that he did not even notice that those gray eyes were trained directly on him. 



“Did you say something to me?” 



Apollo’s soft voice sounded a bit like music to the artist’s ears. 



“Uh… yeah, i was just saying how beautiful that work is,” 



Apollo studied him. Grantaire felt like he was being scrutinized by some great judge. Ah, the imagination of an artist. After a moment, Apollo spoke again. 



“I guess it is,” a beat, “doesn’t it all get old quickly?” 



“I used to think so,” Grantaire paused, “but there’s a lot of beauty out there.” 



Oddly profound words, even for the artist. It was true, though. 



Something inexplicable flitted across Apollo’s face, and he turned away from Grantaire.  



----



Enjolras could feel Taire's gaze on him as he turned away. The tour guide’s words resonated with him, they did. The man had seemed to speak with experience, not unlike Enjolras’s pain, but why had he even spoken to Enjolras in the first place? Enjolras had glanced at himself in his slow, weighted march through the city and he hadn’t 

looked 

worse. Well, he didn’t recognize himself, but he looked like a person, at least. If he was being honest, he didn't even care. 



The Sistine Chapel 

was 

beautiful, he’d grant himself that. The art was truly remarkable, but he felt nothing as he gazed at it. He’d read in the same magazine that had alighted such intense curiosity in him that some wept when they stepped into the chapel. Enjolras had not truly wept in so long. 



“Are you an artist?” 



The tour guide spoke again. He seemed to be intensely fascinated with Enjolras for some bizarre, inexplicable reason. Perhaps he looked 

that bad. 




“No,” Enjolras was quiet. Jehan and the others had always been more interested in the arts, “I don’t know what I am.” 



He had no idea why those words had burst from his lips. It was the truth, but it was not one he had 

ever 

spoken aloud, even dared to write in the journal he used to keep. Why had he said it now? 



Perhaps facing the end made a man honest. 


hope y'all liked it :)


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



----



Grantaire watched Apollo leave. He hadn’t said anything to the man’s broken, soft words. 

I don’t know what I am. 

They were so 

real, 

so despondent, but Grantaire had only floundered for a response. To little avail, of course. Grantaire wanted to chase him, help breathe life back into the sunken statue of a man, but he didn’t even know if he was truly interpreting Apollo’s state or if he was letting his imagination get to him. He’d seemed untouchable, more beautiful and powerful than a man like Grantaire. 



Why was he so enraptured with the man, anyway? As the red pullover disappeared into the sea of tourists, Grantaire wondered at the 

pull 

he had felt towards him. It felt almost out of a Keats poem. He was off work now: he 

should 

chase Apollo. 



Grantaire pushed through the crowd towards the exit, where he’d last seen Apollo, but the red pullover seemed to have disappeared.  



---



Enjolras stood on the bridge again. It seemed to be the end of all things for him: it seemed that he always ended up here, on this bridge, staring into the Tiber. The sun was high now: he’d emerged from the Vatican and found himself here without even remembering the steps that carried him. The air was slightly rancid smelling: the river was polluted with sewage and he could tell. Perhaps he would have fought to change that. 



Something deep in his soul screamed for him to keep fighting, to keep the inferno of determination and righteousness burning, to ignite it again. He remembered how he’d cared for the good fight so 

deeply 

that he’d spent every night sleepless, phone banking, or volunteering for a suicide hotline or a million other things to make the world better. 



What had it all been for, anyway? That was the question that chased through his thoughts. 



The Vatican was beautiful. Enjolras wished he could accept what so many cynics did: meaninglessness and selfishness. He’d loved his nature of idealism once, but it had become his downfall. Greek tragedies raced through his thoughts. Icarus, Hercules, Achilles (somewhere in his old self he criticized the male-centric list)- all idealists, dreamers, trying to succeed. All doomed to fail. Perhaps his dreamless fade into nothingness would be his failure. Or perhaps his heroism. 



The pain and weight that plagued his existence had at least lifted now. He was glad it was still February and lunchtime, nobody would see him jump. 



Enjolras stared into the heartless green waters. 



----



Javert felt a steady hand on his waist. Even now, the sudden contact briefly set him on edge, but he knew it was just his husband. 



“Mon 

hero, 

why are you here?” 



He was closing the cafe for the  day: they did not serve lunch. 



“I was thinking about you, love. I…” Valjean paused, and Javert turned from the counter to face him. Valjean’s handsome, worn features were plainly worn. 



“What is it?” Valjean took a breath. 



“I feel like we need to go to 

the bridge.” 




“Now?” Javert felt a lump in his throat. 

The bridge 

was where he’d almost ended it all after 

Valjean 

had shown him kindness. They’d only gone back once. 



“

Please. 

I don’t know why, but I-”



Javert hated to relive it, but he knew Valjean would never make him go back if he didn’t feel like it was important. 



“

Okay.” 




----



A cloud passed over the sun. How fitting, Enjolras thought, that he would not see the light as he fell. He waited for the bridge to clear: he knew of the trauma to bystanders he could inflict. There was nothing more to consider, he’d made up his mind. He sat on the railing. 



Enjolras heard voices to his left and glanced over. A pair of men, one, tall and in a black sweater, looked towards the stout, grim one in blue. They were clutching hands. To his dismay, they stopped close to Enjolras. The tall one looked at his partner.



“Javert,” He paused, “I’m glad you’re here, my love,” 


  Something imperceptible stirred in Enjolras’s heart, and he tore his gaze away from the tender moment. 


“Thank you for being kind,” Javert, Enjolras supposed his name was, said softly. 



“Was this where you…?” a pause, “This spot?” 



“Yes,” 



Enjolras felt a jolt. An instinct buried within him screamed at him to talk to the men, tell them something. He pushed it away. 



In his periphery, he saw them move closer to him. Javert, he guessed it, spoke. Enjolras felt his gaze. 



“It’s a beautiful day.” 




Shit, 

why was this man talking to him? Couldn’t he have his own peace, at least for a moment? Enjolras turned to look at the man. His blue eyes drilled into Enjolras’s own. The man’s face was worn with smile lines and something else. 



“Yeah.” The voice that came out of his lips was hardly his own. 



“I know that look,” Javert smiled sadly, “I used to see it in the mirror every night,” 



Enjolras said nothing. 



“Love, I’m going to take a walk,” The tall man looked grimly at Enjolras, and then turned and walked away. For a moment, neither Enjolras nor the man in blue spoke. Enjolras looked away and stared fixedly at the horizon. If he was silent, hopefully, the man would leave. 



“I jumped from this spot, once,” Javert was quiet, “I failed. I also tried to jump in the Seine once, but he,” a nod in the direction of the tall man’s disappearing figure, “he stopped me.” 



“I wasn’t going to jump.” 



Enjolras wouldn’t pull this man into this. He couldn’t burden the man’s conscience after he was gone. 



“That’s what I said once,” 




Please leave. 




“I was 25. I used to be a cop.” The old, alive Enjolras, shuddered at the word 

cop

, “I thought everything was black and white. Good and bad. I thought that was what God wanted me to do, to hunt down criminals. I met a prostitute, Fantine, who was breaking the law, but I found out she had a child that she had to feed. I couldn’t arrest her, and it broke me.’



Something in Enjolras stirred. The 

economic conditions 

of this world that led women like this Fantine to sell themselves-



Javert continued. 



“And then I met Valjean, who was on the run from the law for helping people. That’s when I jumped right here. Valjean somehow found me at the hospital and made me travel with him.” A smile, “he was insufferable. I almost tried again in France, I could not make sense of the world. I’m glad I didn’t, now.” 



Enjolras couldn’t make himself speak. He felt Javert move onto the railing next to him and sit. 



“Kid, whatever you’re feeling, I know it’s hard. The world is chaotic.” Javert stopped. “I don’t really know what to say, but please, at least come have a coffee,” 




Ah. 

Enjolras felt… some kind of warmth tugging at his heart. This man was being so 

kind, 

and for what, a disappointed idealist? Well, Enjolras couldn’t exactly say no. He knew how cops were trained to handle this kind of situation. He may disagree with it, but it was undoubtedly in Javert’s training. He supposed he could always come back later. 



“Sure,”



The sun peaked out from behind the clouds.  



---



Grantaire set up his mic and guitar along the path near Javert’s cafe. Fingers brushing the battered wood of the guitar, he started plucking the cold strings and pushed the thoughts of the fallen god from his mind. It was a gorgeous day, and at lunchtime he could usually get good and warmed up for the afternoon crowds. He’d decided on an old tune, one he’d felt in his heart when he’d seen Apollo walk away. 




“Well I heard there was a sacred cord





That David played, and it pleased the lord





But you don’t really care for music





Do ya?” 




It was classic and gravely overplayed, but now Grantaire imagined that a new meaning came to it. He imagined Apollo as he sang. Apollo was a proud god, he was sure. A hero of old. 




“Well it goes like this, the fourth the fifth, 





The minor fall and the major lift, 





The baffled king composing





Hallelujah” 




Grantaire let the chorus ring out as he looked into the street;. A few tourists stood before him, clutching bags with tourist memorabilia loaded inside and all bundled in thick coats like Grantaire’s own. 



“

Hallelujah





Hallelujah,” 




A flash of red. 



“

Hallelujah

,’ 



Was that Javert?



“

Your faith was strong, but you needed proof,”




Piercing gray eyes met his own when he glanced up from his guitar. Grantaire faltered in his song, merely continuing to pick the pattern. He stared back. 

Apollo? 




---



Enjolras stared at the tour guide from earlier. Was it really the same man from the museum? Beside him, Javert stopped. The man was singing in a clear, even voice.




Your faith was strong, but you needed proof,”



They locked eyes once again. Something inexplicable flitted across ‘Taire’s face and Enjolras distantly noted that he knew this song. It was a beautiful and popular little tune that Jehan, the poet, had played for him, and he seemed to know that the tour guide had stopped in the middle of a verse. Javert spoke. 


“Oh, 

salut 

Grantaire!” 



Later, Enjolras would never be able to remember the conversation that ensued or how he ended up in Javert’s small, warm cafe, clutching a small cup of espresso. 

Grantaire 

was with them and Enjolras would only remember that Grantaire said something to make Enjolras sit up straight. 



“-

What do you mean, politics are useless?” 




---



Apollo seemed to come to life for the first time. His eyes flashed at the casual, cynical comment Grantaire had made. 



“Uh… dude, they’re 

all 

corrupt,” Graintaire stuttered out. Apollo’s face didn’t change, but



Grantaire could 

feel 

intensity radiating through the room. It was magnetic. 



“

Politicians 

can be corrupt, but that doesn’t mean politics are useless. Domestic political change has been the biggest hallmark of progress. Even when policies like a great Welfare State fail, it still leaves behind a legacy that improves the lives of people,” 



Apollo sounded tired like he hadn’t used his voice in a desperately long time. And he was 

right. 

Grantaire was a cynic and hated politics to the bone, but he had mailed his ballot home in the last election with each democratic candidate’s name perfectly marked. If it had not been this mysterious man, he would have mocked the intensity of his rant.  



“Well, 

yeah, 

but that doesn’t mean we should all throw away our lives for some stupid election cycle or something” Grantaire paused. He hadn’t voiced sentiments like this in a long time, and just 

being 

in the presence of this man made him sweat through his sweater. 



“If people who legitimately care don’t try to make change, it does not happen.’” Pain came into those eyes and his voice became quiet, haunted. “Trying… it is what will save the world, Grantaire,” 



It sent a shock through Grantaire to hear his name spoken by this unfathomable being. He wondered at the pain that marred the pure passion of Apollo’s words, and right there he decided that he would not let this man slip away as he had in the Sistine Chapel. Grantaire felt as though he was living a poem, although he distantly knew that Apollo was just a man and Grantaire was just a mortal. He wanted more of those impassioned words that seemed to bring fire to Grantaire’s otherwise normal world. So, he let his true cynical thoughts flow freely from his lips. 


“And who is to say what good that change does? The welfare state brought us Reagan, which essentially undid all of that supposed good and killed a shit ton of gay people like me, by extension,” Oops, he definitely hadn;t meant to slip in that gay remark, but he was sure that one he called Apollo would not mind. 


“And besides, what you think is good isn’t necessarily good for everybody. I think we should all be artists, but not everybody tolerates the smell of turpentine!” 



Where had that 

come 

from? Grantaire felt the most articulate he had in, well, years. Javert cast him a glance from the white counter he was cleaning and raised a bushy eyebrow. Grantaire fiddled with the cuff of his sleeve and noted the glob of yellow paint stuck in the fibers. 



“So, should we do nothing at all then? Should we leave the poor to starve, the depressed,”- a waver-“to go unhelped, the oppressed to suffer? We have an obligation to at least 

try. 

I believe you’re thinking politician’s end goal in a liberal democracy is to establish a 

Leviathan State, 

but that’s not it, and it’s thinking like yours that will prevent legitimate change,” 



Grantaire was silent. The fire that flashed through Apollo’s eyes, the force of his conviction in his voice, all of it just drew Grantaire to him. What the hell was he even supposed to say to that? 



“Have you tried?” Grantaire had no idea why he said it, but he regretted it instantly. The hollowness returned to Apollo's eyes and he slumped into the chair, clutching his empty coffee cup. 



“Yes,” Apollo’s voice caught and he said no more. 







I tried to introduce Grantaire's strange idolization of Enjolras here-let me know if my characterizations through the dialogue are solid. 

Sorry this took a while! I've been busy with finals.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Enjolras’s head spun.  He was still in the cafe, yet something had changed. The words he had spoken felt both alien and all too familiar to him. For a moment, when Grantaire had challenged him, his mind had cleared a little and he felt almost like himself again. But, then Grantaire had asked if he’d tried and Enjolras had remembered why he had fled to Rome in the first place. Before he’d even realized what he was doing, Enjolras was standing and turning to leave. He was aware of the resounding silence of the cafe. 



“Wait-” Javert said  in a sharp tone, “Grantaire, apologize.” There was something decidedly paternal in the way he spoke to Grantaire and Enjolras could see the dismay written plainly on Grantaire’s face. 



“Uh, sorry, I went too far I guess,” It really was uncanny to hear that Midwestern drawl out here. 



“It’s okay,” Enjolas did feel much clearer in the head. 



“What’s-what’s your name?” Grantaire stammered. Enjolras wondered why he was nervous. He hoped he hadn’t been too stern. 



“Enjolras.” Another inexplicable emotion flickered across Grantaire’s eyes. 


“Like… the dude who got that billboard taken down on the interstate?”  What the fuck. Enjolras froze. He had gotten an especially atrocious pro-life billboard taken down on the interstate between his town and the state capitol. The day he’d seen it on a drive to a debate tournament with Combeferre, Courf, Jehan, and the others had been a good one, that is, until Enjolras demanded they pull off the interstate so he could take a picture. It had been a hot day and he could tell everybody was annoyed by the delay, but he couldn’t just leave that billboard. He remembered the furious writing he’d done after he’d finished his homework, petitioning the overwhelmingly Republican state legislature to take it down, the day he’d driven alone to the legislature to speak, and eventually, the state paper headline proclaiming Small Town Activist Gets Billboard Demolished. It was his greatest accomplishment, for whatever good it had done, and he certainly wasn’t expecting it to follow him here. 


“Yep,” Grantaire 

stared 

at him. 



“Damn, I remember how amused Eponine was when that billboard got taken down. It was 

bad,”




Javert gave them both a funny look and Enjolras had to admit, he was confused too. It wasn’t 

impossible 

that Grantaire was from near his hometown, but it was 

remarkably 

unusual that he’d meet somebody in 

Rome 

of all places who knew the same stretch of interstate that he’d driven a thousand times. 



“Small world,” He choked out.  



For a long pause, nobody spoke. Finally, Javert broke the silence. 



“So,  Grantaire, why don’t you take Enjolras to that little lunch place near your



Apartment. The owner owes me a meal, just tell them I sent you,” Javert’s French accent reminded him a little too much of his own father’s, and Enjolras wondered why he was taking such an interest in him. Perhaps it was what he had said at the bridge: Enjolras somehow reminded Javert of himself. Once again, he found himself in a position to go somewhere else with people when Grantaire agreed. Strangely, he didn’t find himself dreading the prospect of companionship and a delay from his return to the bridge. 



“Enjolras, before you head out, here’s my phone number,” Javert crossed the room and pressed a thin sheet of paper into Enjolras’s hand, “

Please 

call me if you need anything at all,” His worn eyes crinkled with concern, “And come by the cafe tomorrow morning.” 



Enjolras understood that language, that of getting the ill to promise to keep going. He’d made people on the other end of those hotline’s promise similar. He was not sure if it would work for him but he gave a curt nod anyway. 


 


---



Javert was not a scrupulous man any longer, but he could see the look that passed through Grantaire’s eyes. Valjean was the light to Javert’s own dark, the chaos to his order. Javert felt as though the universe, perhaps as indifferent as he knew, had made them for each other. He hoped that Grantaire, for all his pain, could pull this mysterious waif of a man from the bridge back into the real world. 



He’d known Grantaire for a couple of years now. Grantaire would never remember (or if he did, mention) the day he had stumbled into Javert’s cafe at an obscenely early time in the morning dangerously drunken and bruised from things Javert did not want to imagine. He remembered finding Grantaire’s apartment key and address in his torn jeans pocket and calling Valjean (whose strength 

far 

unmatched Javert’s own to carry the boy (for he was a boy) to his apartment. He had retched at the smell of alcohol in the apartment and cringed at the mess of paints that covered the floor. Javert had seen much, 

much 

worse as a police officer, but he had already loved Grantaire like a son. 



Now, as he watched Enjolras and Grantaire leave, the blonde’s step weighed down by pain Javert could only guess at. He hoped that Enjolras would honor his request and come to the cafe (it was an old trick for one suspected to be suicidal, but Javert didn’t want to spook the kid). Javert hoped that Grantaire would understand not to leave Enjolras after they had lunch. Javert had sent them out because he knew how depression would keep a man from eating. 



---



As they silently meandered down the mildly crowded cobbles, Grantaire’s phone buzzed. He kept it on Do Not Disturb all the time, but there were three numbers he had listed to push through: Javert, Eponine, and Gavroche. Apollo, no, 

Enjolras,

 for that was his name, had fallen into step just behind Grantaire and Grantaire decided it was safe to quickly check his phone. The top notification was from Javert. The message-in french, as Javert was trying to teach Grantaire the language- read simply 

Ne le laisse pas seul. 

Do not leave him alone. 



Grantaire wondered what Javert had learned about Enjolras before they had seen Grantaire playing on the street (he'd left his guitar at Javert’s), but he had already decided to follow Enjolras so he knew he would honor Javert’s request. 



===



Enjolras sat once again. Grantaire was across from him, his face completely neutral. The restaurant felt like Rome: the walls were cozy, battered terracotta decorated with charming little portraits of past owners and the countryside, and the place was warm and thick with the aroma of freshly cooked pasta. An old woman sat beside the window in a white apron and folded little pieces of dough around some kind of filling. It was the quintessential Rome. A burly man with a heavy accent came to the table after Grantaire asked to speak to the owner. 



“Javert told us to tell you you owe us a lunch?” Grantaire sounded so casual and confident as if he couldn't care less. A paint-stained hand drifted up to brush the spare curl that had fallen over his eyes, and Enjolras remembered that Grantaire had called himself an artist. How odd, that the artist who had guided him through the one place he wanted to see before he ended things would meet him once more. How perfectly poetic, Enjolras noted almost sarcastically. 



“Ah, so he wouldn’t let me forget it! You his son?” Grantaire smiled at that.



“Not 

quite,” 




“Giorgia will take your orders, it’s all on me,” He winked and walked back towards what Enjolras assumed was the kitchen. Grantaire shot Enjolras a lopsided smile and spoke before Enjolras could enjoy the silence. 



“Javert’s not my dad, although I wish he actually was. He’s given me a free coffee every day for two years, bless him,” 



“Ah,”



Enjolras did not know what to say. 



“So, what’s it like being a religious billboard’s worst enemy?” 



“Um,” It had been so long, and the sarcasm in Grantaire’s voice was all too evident, “It’s good, I suppose,” Enjolras did not often speak the language of humor. 



“Which town did you say you’re from? I’m assuming Nebraska, cause that’s where I’m from, too, and I doubt you’d go to war with the state legislature unless you were from the state,”



Enjolras said the name of his hometown, and Grantaire smiled with recognition.



“Ah, I used to live half an hour from there!” Grantaire named his own hometown, and Enjolras realized with a sharp jolt in his stomach that he’d been to that town many times, especially after Jehan’s father moved there, “I can’t believe I’m meeting somebody from basically home in Italy, of all fucking places!” 




Home. 

That word surely stung Enjolras’s heart. Could he even call it home now that he didn’t speak to the people who made it such? Of course, he knew it was his home. The streets he had walked and driven more times than any other in his life would follow him anywhere. He suddenly remembered how nothing could ever be the way it was, and he felt his heart sink further back into the darkness. 



Enjolras realized he had not replied to Grantaire when he felt Grantaire’s inscrutable gaze. 



“Sorry,” He muttered. 


 


---



Enjolras was a mystery to Grantaire, and he did not even know him. The only thing that seemed to awaken the God within was 

politics, 

of all damn things. Grantaire wanted to 

understand 

this noble painting of a man but he could not even get him to converse. 



“Uh, are you okay?” He hated being asked that, but what could he do. Enjolras’s face flickered and then returned to the cold impassivity that Grantaire was becoming accustomed to. 



“I am… not.” Apollo, as Grantaire couldn’t help thinking of him, sounded as he had in the Vatican. Grantaire had no idea what to say as those eyes that captured him so bored into him and so he did the only thing he knew: he rambled. 



“I used to get scary drunk, you know. Sometimes I still do, but when I was younger I did a lot of 

really bad 

shit to myself. I tried to drink myself to death a few times. Javert’s too nice to say it, but I know he found me once. Musichetta-she works with me-called my best friend and made her threaten me until I cleaned up a little,” Grantaire looked down at the unraveled sweater cuff, “I didn’t think it was worth being here anymore,” He laughed mirthlessly, as only a cynic could, “I still don’t, but I’m too damn selfish change that.” 


Grantaire could have told much more of his story to Enjolras but he was acutely aware of the man’s ferocity to continue. Little crescents were starting to form in his palms. Enjolras opened his mouth to speak but the waitress got to the table as he did.


“

Hallo, 

what can I get you?” She was pretty, and if Grantaire had not been caught so breathlessly by Apollo, he might have flirted with her. 



“Uh, I’ll have whatever the lady’s making,” Enjolras spoke as if it was a shudder. Grantaire absently noted the stain across the front of the man’s pullover.  



“Me too,” Grantaire said after a beat. The woman nodded and left and he wondered if she had noticed the tension. 



“I’m tired,” Apollo said, just as Grantaire was blurting out: 



“Would you like to come to my apartment?” 


This is veering into soulmate au territory (but it's not i swear) oop


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Grantaire has asked him 

what? 

Enjolras was taken completely off guard by Grantaire’s blurted invitation to go to his 

apartment. 

Javert had not told Grantaire where he had seen Enjolras, he was sure. Enjolras was oblivious to matters of the heart, but even he could tell that Grantaire didn’t want him for sex. So why had Grantaire asked him? Enjolras was just a stranger he’d run into twice, not even a friend. He was plainly cold and argumentative and he’d been nothing but rude to Grantaire. 



Enjolras felt more awake than he had, though. He still felt the dull void of existence in his heart, but… Whatever he and Grantaire had spoken about previously had pushed back the blanket of darkness a little bit. Despite this, he was beginning to detest the silences that stretched between them. He longed to return to his apartment and take the knife and end things the ugly way, and yet he clung desperately to the people who were forcing themselves on him.  



“S-sure,’ He said at last. Enjolras should not be alone right now. Grantaire relaxed.



“Just so ya know, my apartment’s kind of covered in paint right now-I’m a painter- and I hope you aren’t allergic to cats because I have two,” 



Enjolras was not allergic to cats. He remembered what Grantaire had so loosely confessed to just a moment ago. Enjolras had spoken to men like Grantaire before: artists who drank too much and pontificated about the state of the world. It was a stereotype, really, and Enjolras hated himself for instantly grouping Grantaire with the stereotypes.  He knew others who struggled, 

he 

struggled, if less than Grantaire seemed to, and yet Enjolras could not move past his own stupid biases. 



He was being horrible and cold again, and Grantaire was being so kind to this person he didn’t even know yet. Enjolras could only imagine how, as soon as he spoke more than a few words at once, Grantaire would realize that Enjolras wasn’t worth his time. 



“This place is really cozy,” Grantaire shot Enjolras a cautious grin, “I think I’ve been here like, one or two times? Javert took me here. Like I said, he’s a good man, sometimes he volunteers with charity to help feed the homeless in the city,” 



Enjolras couldn’t help but perk up a little bit. He’d never focused so much on homelessness in his hometown because there was a surprisingly low number of displaced persons in small-town Nebraska, but he had noticed the depressing number of people suffering on the streets here. A pang shot through him at the thought that he had been so 

selfish 

to ignore their suffering and focus on his own. 



“What’s the charity called?” 



“Oh, I forget. I don’t really participate in that kinda thing, I think it’s generally futile. Kind of like how missionaries actually do more harm than good,” 



“

Well, 

I think that’s a bit of an oversimplification. Not 

all 

charities are like that, although I agree that direct action is a better solution to many issues,” 



Grantaire shot him a funny look. 



“I don’t think much change is possible dude,” 



Enjolras felt his face flush to the collar. Combeferre had jokingly called that flush his “French Revolutionary Flush”, but the serving girl swooped in with their plates covered totally in steaming, aromatic pasta as if she could tell Enjolras was about to say something entirely too spiteful. Probably for the best, he thought. 



They were silent as they ate. The food was 

heavenly 

and Enjolras enjoyed the feeling of real, different food in his stomach. Oddly, it was the first thing he’d eaten in 

weeks 

that tasted like more than sawdust. Grantaire let out a hum of enjoyment at the food, so it was clearly good by Roman standards, too. The owner asked if they wanted wine, and Grantaire hastily declined. Enjolras did not often drink. Finally, both of their plates were empty, and before either could protest, the owner was placing two generous portions of decadent tiramisu on their plates. Enjolras had had the dish once before, at a fancy restaurant after a debate tournament and he remembered it vaguely tasting of cardboard. It did not, now, and his plate was soon reduced to white porcelain and residual syrup. He was loathe to admit it, but he felt much better now. The abyss still churned, but today, he noted, seemed to be a gift from the universe. 



Enjolras stared down at his plate. 



“Ready to go?” Grantaire’s voice held an edge to it. 




Not really, but a thousand times. 




“Sure,” 



Distantly, Enjolras felt bad for being so cold, but he didn’t really feel enough to care. Grantaire rose, tossing a few euros onto the table. 



“I thought people didn’t tip here?” 



“They don’t, but the meal was free,” 



The cold air that greeted them was a pleasant feeling to Enjolras. At least it was a 

feeling, 

he noted. They made their way through the streets, Grantaire once again in the lead, for half a block, until they reached an apartment building decorated charmingly with a gargoyle. It was only a block away from Enjolras’s own pitiful dwelling, actually.  



Inside, Grantaire opened the door to what Enjolras could only assume was his apartment. Enjolras was greeted with the faint lingering smell of wine, layered with turpentine and coffee. A unique combination, to be sure, but not entirely unpleasant. 



Grantaire’s living space was messy, but not in a depressing way Enjolras’s apartment held only discarded clothes on the floor and half-eaten food in the kitchen. 




Fuck, 

Enjolras was pathetic. Grantaire gestured to the paint-splattered couch beside the window and Enjolras hesitantly sat. Grantaire stood in the foyer for a moment, looking a bit lost. He had an easygoing way about him, even as he shuffled to the chair directly adjacent to the couch. Enjolras could not muster words, and so he was silent. 



---



Half an hour later, Grantaire watched in dismay as Enjolras let himself out of the apartment. He’d asked Enjlolras if he’d want to go back to the Sistine Chapel on a private tour with Grantaire-

not a date- 

Grantaire had added, just for friends, and Enjolras had given the slightest nod. They had both been quiet until Enjolras complimented the newly completed painting on Grantaire’s easel. Grantaire hated his work, he thought that painting was hideous, a pretentious attempt at profundity, but Enjolras had seemed genuinely enraptured by it. It was the first thing Enjolras had said unprompted all day, and it shocked Grantaire. 



“

You can have it, if you want,” 

He had said, and then kicked himself for his awkward presumptiveness. Who 

actually 

wanted a painting from some random dude? To Grantaire’s surprise, Enjolras’s face had briefly lit up. It was quiet as Grantaire had carefully handed Enjolras the painting. Something odd had come across Enjolras’s face, then, something like pain and regret, and Grantaire fathomed, fear. Oh, how he wanted to help Apollo, but he could not muster the words. 



“

Thank you.” 

Enjolras had stammered out, frozen, and added, “

I have to go now,”




‘Wait-” Grantaire was too afraid to be forceful, “Let me sign the back of the painting, at least.” 



He’d scribbled his name and, at the last second, his phone number, with a note. Enjolras had not even looked at it before he was out the door. 



                   


sorry, this chapter is really short. i've got a lot going on and I've hit a bit of a wall. hopefully a big update on barricade day :)

Enjolras changes.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Enjolras wasn’t really sure what he’d been doing for three days, only that he hadn’t killed himself. Meeting Grantaire and Javert and going to the Sistine Chapel had not even begun to truly drown out everything he felt, but when he glanced at the bottles of pills in his bedroom, he found that he couldn’t bring himself to down them. The painting Grantaire had given him lay abandoned in the corner of the room. Enjolras thought it was a stunning, careless piece, although he was not one for art. He’d seen the phone number scrawled across the back, but he had not texted it. 



Enjolras was tired, so tired now. He’d watched the news for hours on his computer, completely immobile and emotionless in the face of news that once would have made him angry enough to do 

something. 

He still felt, well, almost nothing, although all he wished was that he could feel something again. The knife helped, as it always did, but he hated himself for it every time. Enjolras just couldn’t 

be 

but he couldn’t make himself 

not 

be, either. It would have been torture if he felt warm enough to feel it at all. 



In the back of his mind, he almost wished Grantaire would search for him or help him. He wished Javert had somehow chased him down after Enjolras had failed to meet him for breakfast. He’d slept all day that day, hadn’t even realized the day had passed until it already had. The depression he figured he had had only intensified and settled more heavily over Enjolras like an unwelcome lead blanket. Enjolras wanted to go out but even the thought of leaving his couch seemed like an insurmountable task. Where he had once found boundless energy to fight against every injustice, now Enjolras could only ponder getting out of bed.



He was pathetic, he knew he was. He shouldn’t have left Grantaire so abruptly or ignored Javert or even stopped talking to his friends or a million other things. Anything he’d ever done was just a reminder of how fucking pathetic he was. He hated himself, but yet he wished he could do anything to change that. Enjolras might have cried again, but no tears would come.



There was pretty much no food left at the apartment, and somewhere in the back of his mind, he noted that he was getting hungry. He couldn’t even bear to drag himself out of the gray apartment. He knew there were services that delivered groceries, or he could just order food, but both options seemed entirely unappealing. Not knowing anybody-except Grantaire-he supposed, made little impact, seeing as he never would’ve called his friends for help. Maybe he

 should 

call Grantaire, actually. It wasn’t like Enjolras cared what the random dude 

thought 

of him, anyway. He could fake an illness or something. 



The phone number was sloppily scrawled on the back of the canvas. It bore a similar area code to Enjolras’s own number, of course. 


 


Me: 
Hello, this is Enjolras, if you remember me. I have been incapacitated and I cannot-


 



Wow, 

he was pathetic. What was he supposed to say, anyway? 




I think I’m going to die if you don’t get me groceries or something. 




Enjolras couldn’t even imagine how he was supposed to ask. He 

loathed 

the idea of even 

considering 

asking for help, much less a stranger he’d walked out on. People were not Enjolras’s forte, and this was the worst type of situation. He didn’t want to 

starve, 

though, that was an absolutely horrible way to go out. He supposed he had to contact Grantaire, order something and face an unfamiliar delivery man, or leave the apartment. 


 


--- 



Grantaire’s phone buzzed. He was painting in his apartment, cold winter sunlight streaming into his bedroom. He was covered in paint, as evidenced by the streak of yellow paint that appeared when he opened his phone. Oddly, it was from an unfamiliar number with a Nebraska area code. 



Unknown Contact: 
Hello, this is Enjolras. I was just admiring your painting and would love for you to come to my apartment to discuss the techniques you utilized. I can order takeout. 








Grantaire felt a funny flutter in his heart. Enjolras hadn’t 

forgotten 

him. In the back of his mind, he was relieved-Apollo had seemed almost as depressed as Grantaire has been once. At the same time, he knew it was 

maybe 

kind of creepy that he was being invited to a strange man’s apartment, but Grantaire figured he knew how to box, it was safe. 



Enjolras had already lapsed into the canon of Grantaire’s mind as some kind of Romantic-Esque encounter with a fallen god, never to be met again. When he fantasized at night-yes, Grantaire had-Apollo took on a sort of mythical quality, despite Grantaire’s very real knowledge that Apollo had feelings. Perhaps he shouldn’t have assigned such a divine name to him, but it was what it was. He was just glad Apollo had glanced at his painting again. He should ask Apollo if he was really okay when he went to Apollo-no, he should really stop being such a nerd-

Enjolras’s 

apartment. 



Me: 
hiiiii



Me: 
im free tonight 



Me: 
what’s your address? 



Grantaire was an informal texter, but he was too lazy to be formal, even for apollo. Five minutes later, a response. Enjolras merely sent Grantaire his address. 



Me: 
time? 



Apollo: 
Whenever you’re free. I’m not busy. 



Grantaire made a mental note to head over around sunset or whenever he finished his painting, whichever came first. A moment later, his phone buzzed again.



Apollo: 
I’m new in town. Do you have any takeout preferences? 



Grantaire almost laughed out loud at Enjolras’s formality although he found it 

quite 

endearing. Shit, he already had a crush on this random dude who he barely 

knew, 

and he kind og hated that getting texts from Enjolras already made him smile. 

Calm down, dude. Remember, we 

don’t 

date. 




Me: 
i rly like this pasta place by my apt that delivers. 



Me: 
can pickup on the way to urs 



Apollo: 
I’ll pay you back when you get to mine if that’s what we’re doing. 



Me: 
dont need to. i know the owner 


 


---



Enjolras forced himself to breathe. He’d texted Grantaire an hour ago and judging by the barely waning light in his room, Grantaire would be here soon and with the first real meal Enjolras had eaten in weeks. He had to admit, it bothered him a little that Grantaire had apparently taken it upon himself to pay, but he figured he could slip some euros into the man’s bag or something. 

God, 

he was pathetic. He was already thinking of Grantaire as something like a friend and they hadn’t even really talked. 

All because he was too preoccupied with himself to talk, 

he reminded himself. 



Oh 

shit. 

He hadn’t even attempted to make the place presentable and it was not a good impression to be living in an entirely barren apartment that still smelled vaguely of weeks-old rice. Enjolras remembered that the banner with a miniature of Enjolras’s billboard, as the Amis had called it, was packed in the single suitcase he’d taken with him. The suitcase was basically empty now that he’d burned through all his sweaters and unpacked the few books he’d thought to grab. 



The banner looked incredibly ironic hanging on the previously blank wall of the dining room and Enjolras may have laughed at that once.  Maybe Grantaire would appreciate that. Enjolras quickly threw the rice cooker and single pan into the sink with water-he’d forgotten to buy actual 

soap 

when he’d moved-and, at the last second, positioned Grantaire’s painting where it looked like it had been on display all along. The apartment by no means looked homely, but after he folded the blanket on the armchair he’d spent so much time curled on, it at least looked like a human being lived there. 



He was well aware that he looked awful at the moment, but the deadened eyes that stared back at him after splashing his face with cold water were hopefully not as obvious to anybody but him. His hair looked, well, like a nightmare so he ran his fingers through it, for all the good that did and he figured his sweater looked good enough. Deodorant and a spritz of the pretentious cologne Court had given him on his 18th birthday (you’re a 

man 

now, E!) would hopefully mask the fact that he hadn’t showered in god-knew-how-long. 



It had taken a frustrating amount of energy for Enjolras to just do those simple tasks and he sank back down and stared at the wall. Distantly, he noted that it would probably be good to pick up one of his books or something so it didn’t seem like he’d been doing just what he was doing now but even doing that seemed like altogether too much at this moment. Dull panic swelled in him when he remembered that he’d 

invited 

Grantaire to his apartment under the guise of talking about 

art. 

Enjolras had never been one to even think about visual art in passing and he had 

no 

idea what to ask Grantaire. Ever the speech planner, he noted wryly, ENjolras planned exactly the sentence he would say to Grantaire. 




So, this painting is honestly incredible. Tell me about the techniques you used because I can’t even name one, you blend them so seamlessly. 




Awkward and perhaps heavy on the praise, but hopefully Enjolras wouldn’t have to talk much. People were not his forte, he kept telling himself against the swell of dread that welled up in him. The knife was still out beside him on the table. He’d have to hide it in a moment, but now his hand reached toward it for a different purpose. 



The sharp pain that followed was almost enough to quell the dull torrent of feelings inside. 



----



Grantaire was outside an unfamiliar apartment in a building he’d passed hundreds of times. The place looked and 

smelled 

far nicer than anywhere Grantaire had lived (he knew for a fact that it was, he’d stalked the place on Zillow). The carpet outside of Enjolras’s apartment, 

24601, 

was bouncy and fresh, which was a weird thing to note but Grantaire made a habit of noting 

weird things.



Enough stalling. Grantaire forced back the shyness that crept up in him and knocked on the door. A moment later, it meekly swung open to reveal Enjolras standing rather sheepishly in the doorway.  He was wearing the same sweater and his hair was only marginally less disheveled. The dark circles Grantaire noted the first time they met were nothing if not even darker beneath those eyes. A whiff of some fancy cologne he vaguely recognized greeted him. Altogether, Enjolras looked almost the same, if a bit less gone than he had seemed at the Vatican. Of course, he still looked a fallen god to Grantaire’s eyes, 


“Hi,” He greeted Grantaire rather stiffly. Grantaire couldn’t help but smile at the awkwardness of the entire situation. 



“

Salut, 

Enjolras! I have food!” Grantaire gestured at the bag with two tins of pasta slung under his right arm. 



“Thank you,” Enjolras seemed to notice that they were standing in a doorway, “You can come in,” 



Enjolras’s apartment was, well, a little derelict for Grantaire’s taste. He immediately noticed 

his 

painting propped against the wall facing the little dining table and a replica of what Grantaire could only imagine was the billboard Enjolras had once gone to war with, metaphorically speaking, of course. Grantaire set the two tins on the table. He’d gone with 

Amatriciana, 

an inoffensive favorite of his for Enjolras, and 

coratella


, 

a bizarre dish that Joly introduced him to. Steam radiated off of them when Grantaire opened the two containers and he noted the flicker in Enjolras’s eyes. 

Why am I here, Apollo? 




“

Bon appetit, 

good sir! Er, where are your forks?” 



Enjolras winced, or maybe he imagined it. 



“They’re in the sink. I’ll go wash them.” And disappeared from view. A moment later, he emerged with two dripping wet works. 



“Sorry, I’ve been busy,” Grantaire decided to tactfully ignore the fact that Enjolras’s earlier text had specifically noted how not busy he was. 



“It’s all good, I’m just excited for this meal. I haven’t actually had much takeout lately, pretty much since my coworker Musichetta decided to constantly hand off mildly offensive amounts of leftovers to me on the regular,” Enjolras shot him an indiscernible look. Well, Grantaire had a tendency to randomly monologue when he was in awkward social situations. 



“Huh,” Enjolras, “She sounds like a fun coworker,” 



“Oh yeah, I love Musichetta. She’s lovely, volunteers at a women’s shelter and all,” Enjolras’s eyes lit up again, “

And 

she makes truly alarming amounts of soup that I get to help finish off -what 

is 

that look?” 



Enjolras was giving him a truly alarming expression.



“

What is that dish?” 

Hopefully, that was a joke.



“Yours or mine?” 



“The one with the 

heart 

floating in the 

sauce?” 

Enjolras sounded so aggrieved that Grantaire completely forgot that he didn’t even know Enjolras. 



“

That, 

dear Apollo, is 

coratella. 

It’s heart, lungs, and esophagus sauteed with tomatoes and artichokes. It’s actually divine, despite the morbid ingredients. You will not 

believe 

how easy it is to forget you’re eating a sheep’s heart when it’s fucking 

delicious,”. 

Oops, he hadn’t meant to let his slightly divine nickname for Enjolras slip, but hopefully, it would go unnoticed. 



Enjolras made a strangled noise and turned 

beet 

red. It was kind of adorable. 



“Um,” Enjolras sputtered, “But that’s disgusting?” 



“It’s really not though. WHat’s so gross about the heart of a sheep compared to any other part of it?” 



“I’ve been a vegetarian since I was 

twelve,” 




“Eh, let me eat the sheep’s heart in peace!” Grantaire laughed at Enjolras’s indignant stare. It was remarkable how easy, yet how divine and untouchable Enjolras seemed. 



Enjolras stared at him and passed the fork. 



The rest of the conversation flowed surprisingly easily. Grantaire mostly just monologued about his job, with Enjolras reacting appropriately, if awkwardly. The food was gone quickly enough, and what must have been half an hour passed before a long pause ensued. Enjolras seemed incredibly private, but Grantaire figured he’d try to learn a little more about Enjolras.



“So, why are you in Rome anyway?’’



Enjolras fiddled with the edge of his sweater. 



“I needed to get away I guess,” There was clearly more at the edge of his voice but Grantaire knew how much he had hidden once. 



“Ah,” 



“Yeah,” The most awkward pause of the night ensued, and Grantaire took another good look around the room. It was dark outside now, and the single light that hung with a sputtering bulb cast a golden light all around (it also made Enjolras look even more like a god, but Grantaire was really trying not to focus on that), and it seemed less dismal now that Enjolras had spoken. It still smelled vaguely of cologne, which was weird because Enjolras didn’t 

seem 

like a cologne person, but Grantaire stopped himself from speculating too much on 

that 

note. 



“
So, this painting is honestly incredible. Tell me about the techniques you used because I can’t even name one, you blend them so seamlessly,”



In his reverie,  Grantaire hadn’t even noticed that Enjolras crossed the room and was now standing beside his painting. 

Oh shit. 

How was Grantaire supposed to explain that he didn’t have any formal training? Enjolras seemed eager to understand the art, but Grantaire was hardly an artist. 



“Um, thank you, first of all,” Grantaire paused, collecting some bullshit thoughts to impress Enjolras, “Well, I choose to um, do the shadows like that on the leader’s face because it juxtaposes with the light that’s clearly on the side of the revolutionaries. I made the revolutionaries kind of ambiguous and impressionistic because it’s about this failed revolution I learned about in history in high school-they failed and so they fade into obscurity-” 



“Do you think the revolutionaries were right?” Enjolras’s voice was sure and full of fire in the way that Grantaire had heard once before. 



“Nah, I think that revolution is pointless honestly- that’s another point of the painting. They get their moment of glory but it didn’t like, mean much,” 



“It is 

not 

pointless to try to change the world,” 



“I didn’t say that exactly,” 



“But you implied it,” It was like watching another man emerge in a moment of breathless passion, “We should....” a waver, “We 

need 

to try to make things get better in the world. Even if this revolution failed-and I know failure-you’re still making a painting of it. It still got us 

talking. 

Those men, whoever they were, they believed in 

something,

” 



Enjolras seemed to have a furious argument with himself, then, and Grantiaire could only stare in amazement as his thoughts were spinning and changing. He hated himself for only seeing the god analogy he had crafted so carefully while Enjolras was in the midst of some grand idealistic declaration. The flickering light turned the man’s curls golden and his eyes hardened with some unsaid resolve. 



“We have so much to do. All of us.”



---



Something in Enjolras felt 

alive 

again. It wasn’t exactly Grantaire that caused it, certainly not, but that painting and Grantaire’s seeming casual loathing of change reminded Enjolras of what he had used to be. It was not instantaneous, but Enjolras, all at once, remembered all the problems of the world that he 

needed 

to help fix. Why had he been 

wasting 

so much time? His heart pounded, the world spun. A jolt of 

something 

shot through him. 



“But, what’s the point of rising up if you don’t get remembered? If you fail?” 



“Then you fail. I don’t want to live in a world of cynics, Grantaire. Maybe I want to live in a world where everybody fights to make it better,” 



He’d wasted too much time on personal issues. There were 

things 

to be done and he pushed back the sharp and bubbling memories of his fight with Combeferre down somewhere where he hoped they would not inhibit him anymore. He could not spare that when others suffered so much worse than he. The despair and everything he felt was 

right there, 

the sting on his wrist reminded him of that, but Enjolras was awake. 



“Grantaire, what organization did you say Musichetta volunteers with?” 

A start. 



eeek i'm sorry this took so long. i hope the dialogue flows nicely and you like the characterizations okay. as always, comments make me happy :)


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Enjolras was doing the exact thing that had pulled him through high school. As soon as his laptop was opened in his apartment, his fingers were flying over the keys to find some way of changing things. The littered trash on the street and the hardship he could only imagine drove him onward. Enjolras 

could 

still be great, he could still change things. He did the only thing he’d ever tried, he pushed the darkness to the edges of his consciousness.



Musichetta’s charity turned out to only accept women as volunteers, being a shelter for vulnerable and dangerous women (a gesture Enjolras silently applauded), but he had found similar projects linked on the nonprofit’s 

About 

page. One offered support to beggars through food coupons, but Enjolras thought that simply wasn’t enough and continued his search. 



The day after he’d begun, Enjolras forced himself to take a long, contemplative walk through the city. He wasn’t poor, his parents still sent him more than enough each month (they felt horrible about how things had turned out), and so he had awkwardly purchased meals for every beggar he saw. Awkwardly, because he’d apparently forgotten to talk to people and he was shaking too much each time to linger and talk to the people. He simply couldn’t look anybody in the eye anymore. 



On the second day, Enjolras gave up on trying to find the perfect charity to volunteer for. It seemed to him that they simply weren’t doing 

enough 

in any one area, and although he signed himself up to volunteer at a few shelters, it was obvious to him that the problems in this city were not being properly addressed. An idea, half-formed and insane to even him, began to form. 



Enjolras always hated planning things on his computer, and so he found himself in the bookshop a street over. Pretty notebooks lined the walls with colorful, wallpaper-esque patterns and cheerful colors and rows of books-mostly in languages Enjorlas couldn’t speak-filled the room. It wasn’t terribly busy but somehow, the four or five people and employees that milled around put a sort of claustrophobic tightness in Enjolras’s chest. He was shaking, he noted distantly and suddenly, shaking like a leaf and sweating. It seemed like all he could do these days was shake and feel the pit yawning in his stomach.



“

Posso aiutarti

?” An intimidatingly tall woman with an employee’s smock was right next to him. Enjolras’s chest constricted even further and he found that he couldn’t get a word out when he tried to speak. 

Fuck, fuck! 

He couldn’t breathe and the woman was staring at him. The notebook he had picked off the shelf: bright red with golden foil, warped slightly in his hands. The air was heavy around him as he choked out that he was about to pay in broken Italian. The woman gestured towards the register.



Enjolras pulled a 20 Euro note out of his pocket and handed it to her, fleeing the store. On the cobbled street, the air felt a little less like an anvil. 

Another panic attack. 




No matter, he told himself, at least he could plan now. 


 


---



Eponine laughed long and hard. 



“Grantaire, what do you 

mean? 

I know you think this dude is cute or whatever, but how does that translate to him being an 

Apollo

?” 



“Ep’, I’m telling you, there’s something special about him!” 



Grantaire felt himself turning reddish-purple in the nail salon. It was a tradition he and Eponine had established after the first time she’d visited him: they’d Facetime while getting their toes painted and catch up every month. The ladies at Grantaire’s favorite nail salon knew both of them well by now and happi greeted him. One of them, the one who was currently sanding down his nails, even offered advice when it was clear that neither young adult knew what to do. Now, she was merely watching Grantaire with a mildly bemused expression on her face that clearly mirrored Eponine’s own. 



“You’re not drinking again, right? That’s not what this is?” 



“You know I have my limits, and I’m pretty sure I would have drunk texted you by now if I was,” 



Her pixelated brow furrowed. 



“I guess,” 



“I can feel you judging me,” 



“Well, can you blame me? Dude,  you literally think he was as depressed as 

you 

used to be, and in the same breath think he’s like a fucking Roman god or something? I think you need to get your head on straight,” 



“Maybe I do. But maybe there’s something I’m seeing there. I can’t explain it dude- I’m a hopeless fucking romantic but not even 

I 

think this way about people.” 



“Okay Grantaire. Well, I need to go to a dance class but please be safe and don’t be an idiot. I love you.” 



“Love you too.” 



Eponine disappeared from the screen, leaving Grantaire staring blankly at his computer. Grantaire remembered distantly that he'd promised Enjolras a tour of the Sistine Chapel at some point, but it seemed utterly horrifying to follow up on that shrugged promise now, so much later. It was true, Enjolras’s disappearance was concerning to him, but he couldn’t do much about it. Instead, all Grantaire could do was wallow and wonder about the mythical presence that had crossed his path. 


 


–



A week later, Enjolras was swimming upstream. Not literally, of course, but it was as if the revival of fire that had lit on him was being thrown under a rainstorm and just fighting. Why couldn’t he just keep fighting? What was 

wrong 

with him? It felt as though whatever drive he’d managed to scrounge up and reignite in the past week had melted away in the cold winter. It was maddening but as Enjolras stared at the blank second page of the red and gold notebook he’d bought (the first page was covered in incoherent scribbling) he couldn’t help but feel as though the blankness on the page reflected his own soul. 




Damn, 

he thought, maybe he really had used up every drop of good he had in high school. What was more depressing than that? Enjolras, for all that he’d dreamt after that day, that single, warming dinner with Grantaire, couldn’t seem to find it in himself to keep the furnace of ideas burning. He was 

better 

than this. He wasn’t better than this. Enjolras, as he had, dozens of times in the past week, felt a dull, painful rage swelling to fill the sputtering void that was his idealism. This rage wasn’t the righteous rage that he’d so aptly directed towards whatever causes he wanted not so long ago, but worse, a fire of hatred and frustration at himself. It felt as though Enjolras could do nothing but feel nothing that he wanted to. Perhaps he was simply doomed to this miserable shell of an existence, forced to wallow in the dream of idealism come too early.



Enjolras glanced to the familiar place on his desk that held the knife. As his hand stretched through the damp, blue light of his room lit only by the light of his laptop, his phone buzzed. 


oh, enjolras... so sorry this took literally 9 months to post! life got crazy busy and I genuinely had the WORST writers' block but now I'm back and I'm hoping to post more regular updates!

Enjolras and Grantaire reunite, and we get to hear more from Grantaire. Enjolras is kind of an ass. Less angsty!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



It was snowing. Just a bit, just tiny, whitish specks that got in Enjolras’s eyes and splashed the world with the most colorful whiteness that he could have imagined. He loved snow, he remembered that now. When he was younger, he remembered tearing out of the front door on the first snow day he’d ever had, and throwing himself into the little snowbanks that formed outside of his house. He’d even skied with his friends, once. Combeferre had relished at Enjolras’s carefree smile despite the fact that his friends could all see how Enjolras was thinking about climate change.Yes, Enjolras loved snow. 



Enjolras had never been an artist, but he couldn’t help but remember the from 

The Dead. 

He did, indeed, feel his soul swoon softly into the snow. 



Grantaire’s text had come at a perfect time. It was bordering on terrifyingly well-timed, actually, that Grantaire had invited Enjolras to meet him at the very bridge where he’d seen Javert that day. Perhaps if Enjolras had pondered, for a moment, how very odd it was that Grantaire wanted to meet him near midnight at a random bridge in the middle of winter, he would have noticed this, but he merely led himself in the direction of the bridge. 



The lamplights cast a warm glow across the gray world, giving warmth even to the most bizarre statues of the Roman streets. Enjolras did not quite smile at this fact, but he did note the delicate shadows dancing on the streets and thought that he would tell the artist that he had noticed the detail. 

Grantaire. 




Enjolras hadn’t stopped idly thinking about Grantaire after their last meeting. Despite his preoccupation with his causes, the cynic’s remarks kept flashing through his mind. Were they encouraging him to fight it or give in? He could not say. But he could say (although he wouldn’t) that dark curls and a green sweater flashed through his mind more than he’d imagined. Was there some understanding to be found with Grantaire? Could Grantaire… save him? Enjolras rebuked that last thought immediately. 

He 

was the one who was supposed to be saving other people. It was 

Enjolras 

who fought for others tirelessly and worked his ass off to save the world. Nobody could save 

him. 




Anger welled up inside of him again. Why was he so goddamn broken? He shouldn’t even be considering sliding up his sleeves to Grantaire and falling to the ground and sobbing in the man’s arms. And yet. His loneliness and his fear would not erase those thoughts from his mind. 

I am unwell. 



 



—




Grantaire stood on the bridge, gazing down at the half-frozen slush that was the Tiber. Javert once told Grantaire that he’d tried to jump from the bridge, but that Valjean had somehow saved him and pulled Javert back into himself. Grantaire wasn’t even sure why he’d picked this spot to meet Apollo, especially not in a snowstorm when it was cold and Enjolras would surely rather be inside. Grantaire loved the snow, though. When he was in high school, Eponine would sneak into his house on snow days (she had an exceptional talent for lock picking) and wake him up with a snowball to the face. And then, after his inevitable complaints, they would take Gavroche sledding and spend the day laughing and smiling. Snow held some of Grantaire’s happiest, most carefree memories. 



Perhaps he thought he could make a smile cross Apollo’s face. He’d only seen a sort of half smile from Apollo and he could only dream (and he did) of the sunlight that would pour into his soul from a smile from Apollo.



Grantaire looked around anxiously. Enjolras had replied to his text with a simple “Yes.” Grantaire assumed that that meant Enjolras would be on time. He seemed like the type who would spaz at being more than two minutes late to something. 



And there, under the warm glow of the streetlights, was a figure, clad in a black ski jacket, making its way towards Grantaire. He would have assumed it was Enjolras even if golden curls hadn’t sung to him from so far away, even if he already recognized the slight slump to the other man’s shoulders and the way he walked as if he wanted to vanish. The walk didn’t suit Enjolras. 



Grantaire couldn’t help but smile and walk briskly towards Enjolras. Snow stung his eyes, but all he wanted was to see the face of Apollo and find that fire that sometimes came out of something he said. He wanted to be warmed by Apollo, who seemed like the sun to him even if Enjolras himself seemed behind a cloud. Grantaire knew his imagination was running away from him but Enjolras had given him more to think about than his favorite art had in years. 



“Enjolras!” Grantaire smiled, despite the fact that his anxiety, excitement, and concern for Enjolras bubbled together to form an incoherent stream of thoughts. 



“Hello, Grantaire,” Enjolras had a hint of a smile on his face despite his formal tone and obvious discomfort. The two stared at each other for a moment, before Enjolras, against Grantaire’s wildest expectations, spoke first. 



“So uh… shall we go for a walk? I know it’s cold but it seems like you don’t mind, and the snow is… nice.” Enjolras sounded uncomfortable with the sound of his own voice and winced as soon as he spoke, but Grantaire couldn’t fathom why. That idea sounded so perfect in his mind. 



“I’d love to! I haven’t given a tour in a couple of days so my legs probably need the stretch.” Enjolras turned to walk, returning to his increasingly characteristic silence. It was only late afternoon but the clouds in the sky made it feel much later at night. A little bit of sunlight peaked through, but only really enough that Grantaire, between the golden glow of the streetlights and the meager sunlight, could only think that Enjolras looked like an impressionistic painting of a God. 



The two walked side by side in the silent streets. It seemed as though all of Rome was holding its breath for them: not a soul passed them and the only indication that they were not alone in the city was the yellow light emanating from most shops and apartments. Grantaire could see people laughing and eating in many of the restaurants he knew so well, the snow bringing people together to laugh and share, but Enjolras and Grantaire were in a world separate from that. Grantaire was sure that Musichetta and her partners Joly and Boussuet were curled up by the fire in their apartment, laughing and eating. And he was sure that Valjean and Javert were serving endless cups of hot chocolate and the ever-popular cappuccino to cold customers. The people who made his life here full were undoubtedly with those they actually loved. And Grantaire, well, he was with the undiscernible Apollo. Pensively, they walked, until surprising all odds once more, Enjolras was the first to break the silence. 



“I’m sorry I didn’t ask earlier, but why are you in Rome? You asked me but I didn’t ask you. I’m sorry.” Enjolras sounded awkward, Grantaire knew that, but he barely registered that because Enjolras had finally spoken to him. 



“Oh! That’s actually a weird story because I assume we’re about the same age- I turned 19 like a month ago-but basically, I graduated high school early because I couldn’t take it anymore. So I moved here like four months after graduation, I got a scholarship to study at an American university here- I don’t really know why because I was not a great student.” Grantaire felt his easygoing smile fade at the next part. The scholarship and graduating early were fine to talk about, but why he stayed… was not. He felt himself fiddle with his sweater cuffs and look down. Even now, after over a year, it was impossible to talk about his massive fuck-up without trying to physically melt into the ground. He’d never figured out a way to turn it into a joke, some sort of cynical “fuck you!” to the universal forces that had nearly killed him. 



“Well, when I got here it was really fucking hard. My parents and I… we’re not close,” An understatement, “So that was fine, but my best friend Eponine, she kept me out of trouble in high school even though I was the one who should have protected her.” Enjolras looked curious at that but the words were tumbling out of Grantaire too fast now to allow for his curiosity, “So I was totally fucking lonely in a shitty dorm with a roommate who was more interested in finding an Italian girlfriend than he was in the fact that his roommate was almost never home and when I was, I was hammered or hungover. I-” Grantaire’s breath caught and he realized that he was shaking. He’d only really told the whole story to Eponine and Javert, and he was terrified of what Apollo would think. Irrationally, because Enjolras clearly was in no position to judge. 


“I went to my art classes and skipped everything else, and after a semester I lost my scholarship and my housing. But I’m a fucking egotistical idiot and I didn’t want to go home to my dickhead parents and everyone who thought I would fail so instead…” Grantaire winced again, “instead I sold almost everything I owned, crashed in a hostel for a while, and spent every single cent I owned on alcohol. And when that ran out, I got the chapel gig and spent it all on more booze. I don’t even know how Javert found me or why he helped me, or how he convinced Valjean to help me find a cheap apartment but he saved my life… and then Musichetta kept me in work even when I should’ve been fired,” Even with all that detail, there was so much that was left unsaid. 


The nights where Grantaire forgot his own name and tried to hurl himself into brawls or off of buildings and just 

destroy 

himself however he could. The drunken texts to Eponine at frightening hours still left her terrified when he didn’t reply to texts. The hookups were where he let himself be used and treated like a doll because he believed that he had utterly no worth. The smell of vomit filled his hostel room until he was kicked onto the street, and how after that, he slept under the stars with beggars. 



He wished he could forget who he’d been, but telling Enjolras reminded Grantaire of one simple fact. While he was better now, he was not far enough away from the abyss to consider himself safe. The few times he’d drank, he’d felt the same as before: terrified but utterly careless. 



Grantaire realized that he’d stopped walking, that he was leaning against a lamppost as if it would keep him from being crushed by the terrifying memories. And there was Enjolras, only maybe a foot away from his face, a single tear sliding out of his impossibly blue eye. Grantaire was so lost in the pale, sad expression that flitted across Enjolras’s face, the way his dark circles blemished his otherwise perfect features, that he did not register whatever Enjolras said. 



“Huh?” He said helplessly. 



“Sorry, uh, I just… I’m sorry.” Enjolras put his hand on Grantaire’s shoulder. 

A jolt of electricity,

 “I can’t even imagine. Alcoholism is terrible. But, why did you drop out of school?” 



Grantaire stiffened. Who was this man, to ask 

him 

why he had left the place to near death? The implicit judgment was clear in what Enjolras said. If it was up to Enjolras, Grantaire would still be dutifully suffering in his dorm. 



“Dude, I almost killed myself.” Enjolras slumped as Grantaire turned away. Grantaire had trusted this man and then… Enjolras had decided to judge him like Grantaire had avoided for so long. 

Fuck. 

Grantaire felt anger rise in him. At himself. Not at Enjolras. But he couldn’t handle this right now. Not when he’d come so damn far. 



“Wait… Grantaire-” Enjolras’s voice was faint. Grantaire turned back and Enjolras was squatted on the snowy ground, looking lost. Actually, he looked like a fallen angel but Grantaire banished that thought from his mind. 



“I’m sorry. I spoke without thinking and you didn’t deserve that. You are my only friend here.” Enjolras buried his face in his hands, golden curls spilling over his dark cuffs. Pity and something warmer, kinder washed over Grantaire. He would forgive this angel in a heartbeat. 



“No worries. Hey, I have an idea- the Museum Borghese has a gorgeous park that will have snowy hills all around- do you want to go pretend to be kids for a day?” It was a dumb, childish idea, but Enjolras had already sprung up, dusting himself off. 



“Why not?” 


Well guys I am back! I am determined to finish this work despite my vanishment. Hope yall liked it :)


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



     The park was full of children playing and laughing when Enjolras and Grantaire arrived, covered in snow and smiling at each other. The conversation had flown on the walk over. Enjolras had tentatively asked Grantaire about Eponine and he got a fifteen minute enlivened description of Grantaire’s best friend, and then they were talking about American politics and then a thousand other little things. Just learning each other.



     A warmth had blossomed in Enjolras’s chest over the course of their walk. His mind felt clearer than it had since… forever, and all he could think was that Grantaire had somehow saved him. The fire in his chest only glowed brighter when Grantaire made casually apathetic remarks, and something stirred in Enjolras, some kind of friendly anger to correct Grantaire. Being with Grantaire was like playing with matches after being in the cold for so long. Everything Grantaire said teased Enjolras into thinking 

clearly, 

like himself again. 




“But like, why should I keep voting in Nebraska if they’ll never let gay people exist?” 





“Because even letting your voice be heard a little bit is better than being silenced completely. Voting is the one power that any of us have left.” 




It felt good to say what he believed again. He remembered his impassioned speeches back home and so much more. Driving all the way to the state capitol to fight the billboard. Endless debate tournaments that he had lost because he refused to stand against his beliefs, even to win a round. His furious argument with the school vice-principal over the lack of meatless options in the cafeteria. Even arguments with his parents when they wouldn’t accept that Enjolras would likely never give them a child. Enjolras was a fighter and he knew that. 



And yet, even in the warmth of Grantaire, the doubts still tickled his mind. 

But you did nothing meaningful, E. Why do you even care if you fled the country and now you just sit in your room trying to die and failing? 




But when he had a tangible person to tell what he believed, those screaming doubts quieted to whispers. At least for the moment, he could fight. 



Enjolras smiled at the sight of the children playing and at the joy spelled plainly across Grantaire’s face. He had missed this kind of joy. Had he ever felt joy before Grantaire? 



“Well, what are you waiting for? Let’s sled!” Grantaire had procured a hilariously tiny piece of soggy cardboard from… somewhere and Enjolras couldn’t help but laugh. 



He felt like a Hallmark movie character as he said, aloud. 



“Grantaire, you have made me laugh again,” And smiled tentatively at Grantaire, who had turned beet red. 



“Well, Apollo, it is but the job of the jester to make the king laugh!” And while Enjolras quietly wondered at this nickname, he couldn’t help but join in Grantaire’s infectious glee. 



The snowflakes made Grantaire’s eyes look golden, somehow. He mused. And the way his hair falls-



Grantaire interrupted his reverie. 



“Shall we?” 



The two men traipsed up the tiny hill where several children were already standing, teasing and laughing and sliding down the hill. Enjolras was slightly winded by the effort, and he angrily chided himself for the laziness that had brought this. But Grantaire’s excitement was enough to buoy Enjolras to the top of the hill. And it was certainly enough to draw Enjolras to plop down behind Grantaire on their makeshift sled and shyly latch his arms around Grantaire. He felt Grantaire inhale sharply. 



Grantaire’s curls smelled like lemons and vanilla, even in the snow. Enjolras tried to gently inhale the warm, somehow homely scent without Grantaire noticing. 



And then, Grantaire was kicking them down the hill and the two of them zoomed down for a couple of seconds. To an outside observer, it was probably hilariously slow and un dramatic, but to Enjolras, it was more alive than he had felt in so long. 



— 



Being at the bottom of the hill with Enjolras wrapped around him was the best feeling in the world. Grantaire knew he was being weird but even after the little sled stopped moving, he couldn't help but linger perfectly still in Enjolras’s arms for as many moments as he could. Enjolras did not stir behind him. His characteristic awkwardness, Grantaire thought. But finally, the two men disentangled. Enjolras took one look at Grantaire and started laughing. 



“Dude, what?” 



“You have SO much snow on your… everything!” Enjolras was wheezing now, a sound that almost reminded Grantaire of a dolphin. Grantaire smiled and knew that he would cover himself in the snow a thousand times to get Enjolras to laugh like a dolphin again. 



Grantaire hadn’t known Enjolras for long, and what he did know Enjolras as was mostly the hollowed out man who seemed lost. But his imagination that made this man into a god and the very real laughter ringing out made Grantaire want to get utterly lost in his world, to become Enjolras’s and somehow fix whatever seemed so sad about him. 

Oh shit. 

Grantaire was letting his imagination and desire run away from him.



Enjolras shot Grantaire a piercing gaze. 



“Are you all right?” And Grantaire realized that he’d been staring at Enjolras like a slack-jawed idiot while the man laughed at him. 



“Oh yeah, sorry. I love the snow-that’s all!” 



And so together, the two ran up the hill like children and let the joy of the snow erase the countless things that weighed them down. 



—



Enjolras was being silly, he knew that. He’d never really been one to play or let fun things distract him from his work-there were much more important things that he needed to be doing. If he didn’t fight the world, nobody would. But when Grantaire smiled at him after a tumble down the snow covered hill, Enjolras could almost forget the deep shame that filled him. 

This snow will be gone soon because of our use of petroleum. You should go home and write to your representative and-




But Grantaire’s careless, boyish smile and crooked teeth pulled him back into the present for a moment. God, how long had it been since Enjolras had smiled, laughed? It felt like centuries. The last time he remembered laughing was at some dumb joke Combeferre had made before. 

Before. 

 And suddenly Enjolras’s world was spinning as the memory of Combeferre and the fight and everything hit him. He was so alone and he’d ruined everything with the few people who could handle his intensity, his drive. 



Something cold hit his knees, and he distantly realized that he’d fallen to the ground. Everything was blurry and he couldn’t breath and it was all Enjolras could do to pull his knees to his chest and curl up in a ball. His head spun. 

Failure. Failure. FAILURE! 




Who was he to think it was acceptable to have 

fun? 

What was he doing here? He had to atone for what he’d failed to do for the world and his friends who had left him and everything and he wanted it all to stop and he wanted to feel 

pain 

and-



 He buried his face in his knees and tried to will himself into oblivion. Enjolras shook as a thousand hateful thoughts swirled through his mind. Until something broke through his reverie and snapped the world into cruel focus. 



“Enjolras?” Grantaire was barely whispering. His face was inches from Enjolras’s, and Enjolras looked down because the eye contact was just too much for him. Enjolras moved to speak but could only gasp for air. 



“Hey, Enjolras, I’m going to pick you up and carry you to a quieter spot. Is that okay?” Grantaire’s voice was impossibly gentle, like he was soothing a frightened animal. Enjolras didn’t really want to be touched but he also knew that being more alone would be better than stahying here in the snow with a thousand laughing children. He managed a faint nod, and the next thing he knew, he was being scooped up as he hyperventilated. 



The ground was surprisingly not cold when Grantaire finally set him down, and it was only after a moment that he realized that somehow, Grantaire had shed his coat and laid it on the ground for Enjolras. And all Enjolras could think was that a failure like him did not deserve such kindness. And yet, Grantaire sat beside him, shivering. 



Enjolras wanted the pain from his knife or 

something 

more than anything in the world. Distantly, he knew that such a craving was a terrible symptom, but his heart screamed that the pain would put his world back into order for a moment. That at least, it would punish him. But the warmth of Grantaire beside him reminded Enjolras of his shame and so he just buried his hands in the snow and prayed for silence. 



Moments later, it finally came, and Enjolras, still trembling, forced himself to look at Grantaire. 



“I-I’m sorry,”



“You don’t have to be.” Gone was Grantaire’s playful tone from earlier, replaced by a gentle sort of sadness. Enjolras couldn’t speak beyond his apology. He wanted only to be alone in his room with a bottle of something and his knife, but Grantaire was clearly not going to let that happen. What was Enjolras supposed to do now? 



Grantaire, luckily, spoke first. 



“I totally understand if this is weird but… My friend Musichetta lives right by here and she and her partners are really nice-if you don’t want to it’s fine but it might be nice to eat some dinner and hang out-either way it could be fun or I could take you home.” 



Enjolras paused. He could handle new people, he knew that. But did he want to? Should he? 



But the thought of leaving Grantaire at this moment seemed impossible to him. So perhaps… Perhaps he should follow this strange, warm, cynic. For now, at least.







So... I guess I'm trying to slightly subvert the typical e/r thing where r always follows e? let me know what you think so far!


Grantaire held Enjolras’s hand on the walk over to Musichetta’s. He could barely believe his own courage to grab Apollo’s hand in such a fashion… but it was clear that he was having a particularly mortal moment. What a mystery this situation was. Grantaire knew that he was falling in love with this man, perhaps more than he had ever fallen before. More than he’d fallen for Montparnasse, certainly. And that had been one hell of a codependent, damaging relationship. But that was before. Before Grantaire had fled to Rome and become a new person, quasi-free of himself and the darkness that always seemed at the precipice. But still. Falling for Enjolras was a terrifying concept. 



For one, Enjolras clearly was struggling. Not that that would preclude him being capable of loving Grantaire , but Grantaire was already afraid of somehow shattering this marble statue and hurting him beyond repair. After all, he was 

Grantaire. 

He broke all good things eventually. How could he not manage to completely fuck up Enjolras? And of course, there was the issue of Grantaire’s innate existence. He was a cynic, and Enjolras was, somewhere beneath all of the tears, the biggest idealist Grantaire could imagine. This fact inspired Grantaire and made him admire Enjolras all the more, but how could Enjolras not hate a man who said so many things he hated? 

He is just spending time with me because I am the only American he knows. 




An unfair assumption, Grantaire knew. They spent enough time together that Grantaire liked to think Enjolras wasn’t merely doing so out of sheer proximity. There 

had 

to be something about Grantaire that, however mistakenly, kept Enjolras saying yes. Or perhaps Grantaire was going insane. He’d seen the icy anger in Enjolras’s eyes when Grantaire had pushed his cynicism. 



But for now, he let himself cherish the warm hand in his, and hoped that somehow, he could help this fallen angel. 



—-



Musichetta’s apartment was in a friendly part of the city not far from many art museums. Even in the cold, a warmth seemed to emanate from the place: it’s warm red bricks, the pride flag that shamelessly decorated the door, and the obviously sarcastic 

Home is Family 

doormat that welcomed Enjolras and Grantaire inside. Enjolras felt himself shrink back as Grantaire jovially knocked with his free hand and silently hated himself for panicking, and then for agreeing to follow Grantaire to Musichetta’s. In his own free hand, his fingernails dug into his palm sharply enough to draw blood, a comforting, horrible reminder of everything. Grantaire’s hand in his was like the sun to a blind man, an anchor of warmth in a world that just kept feeling more impossibly cold. A cold he was reminded of when suddenly, Grantaire’s hand vanished from his. 



“ ‘Chetta! I’m so happy to see you! You got my text, right?” Grantaire was basked in golden light as he embraced Musichetta. Enjolras felt a twinge and realized with a start that 

he 

wanted to be the only one Grantaire held. And then he chastised himself for letting himself care. Musichetta extricated herself from Grantaire after a moment and studied Enjolras. 



“So, you’re the boy who keeps pulling Grantaire’s attention from his job?” Her almond eyes crinkled with a joke that only she understood, a feeling that was only heightened by her slight, beautiful French accent, “Well, I’m so happy to meet you. Any friend of Grantaire’s is a friend of JBM,” 



“JBM is Joly, Bossuet, and Musichetta. Their little throuple,” Grantaire winked at Enjolras’s confused expression. A tension released that Enjolras didn’t know he was carrying. So Musichetta was in 

relationships. 

Grantaire was not. 



Enjolras forced a smile onto his face, despite the panic building inside of him. He did not even remember how to be a person anymore.



“Well, the hot cocoa isn’t getting any warmer!” Musichetta beckoned them inside. Enjolras was so thankful that Grantaire had texted her and told her they were coming. His insides were turning still, but cocoa and 

warmth 

sounded something like good. 

Something like good, 

he mused bitterly. The old Enjolras would never have done something 

like good. 

He’d only ever done things if they would be good. But this broken Enjolras, he could pretend to drink cocoa even when all he wanted was cold oblivion. 



Inside, two more new people greeted them. Joly, a boyishly handsome medical student with a thick German accent, bounded up to greet them despite the delicate cane he carried. And Bossuet, a quiet, yet brutishly attractive man, waved silently at Enjolras from the olive green couch he was sprawled on. The house felt homey- not like Grantaire’s, which had a warm air of artistic madness to it, but like the kind of home that one would never want to leave. Pieces of artwork dotted the walls, including one small painting that evoked Grantaire’s art (he would ask Grantaire later, he told himself). The aroma of lavender mingled with the warmth of the hot cocoa that Joly was happily tending to on their little stove, and the dense carpet seemed to invite people to lie down on it. It seemed impossible that Musichetta, who seemed only a couple of years older than Enjolras, had built this place herself, but it was undeniable that she took profound pride in this place. It was home and she knew it. 



“Enjolras! Stop looking like a lost puppy and come sit!” Grantaire was already plonked down on an impossibly plush loveseat, and patting invitingly at the spot next to him. Enjolras flushed at the thought of being pressed so closely to Grantaire. He wanted nothing more in the world, and yet, he was utterly terrified. 



“Let him at least take his jacket off, R!” Joly beamed from the kitchen, impervious to the thoughts running through Enjolras’s head. 

Right. 

Enjolras hastily hung his jacket on the coatrack, kicked his drenched boots off, and made his way towards Grantaire. Thank God his socks were still dry. He focused on this small blessing instead of the mounting terror inside of him. What if Grantaire was repulsed by him? 



And yet, Enjolras managed to make himself sit down awkwardly beside Grantaire, forcing himself all the way against the armrest so Grantaire would not have to touch him. It was a common courtesy. All he could think about was how nice Grantaire’s arms had felt around him. How warm, how 

safe, 

how-



“-Enjolras?” Musichetta’s voice cut into his reverie. 



“I-sorry. What?” 



Enjolras was blushing. 



“Grantaire tells me you’re interested in social justice work around here. I don’t know if he told you, but I’m pretty involved in women’s shelters and domestic abuse protections. That’s actually how Grantaire and I-” 



Grantaire made a strangled noise and jumped out of his seat. 



“Cocoa?” He practically shouted, grinning. 

Odd. 

Enjolras filed this away under things to talk about later.  Musichetta looked down for a moment, before smiling warmly at Enjolras. 



“Anyways, I know a lot of people in the nonprofit sector around here. I’d love to introduce you to them sometime.”



He did not deserve this kindness. 



“That would be lovely.” He did not say what he was truly thinking, which was that his own failure to find a meaningful pathway into that world had driven him… almost to his own death that same night. That tonight, if it were not for Grantaire’s text, his arms would be a fresh battlefield and perhaps he would not still be breathing. He forced himself to keep talking anyway. 



“I’ve noticed a lot of elderly people on the streets here. Is there a particular cause for that? There are so few young people, and so many elderly,” Musichetta’s face was sad. 



“Yes, a lot of people in this city notice that. It’s because there is nowhere for them to go. There is not much of a culture of retirement homes in Italy, much less government financial support for them, so people are entirely reliant on their families to support them if they don’t have much saved. A lot of childless elderly end up in the streets or moving to the city when they run out of savings because here, at least, the Vatican takes pity on them and tries to feed and clothe them when they can.”



“That is no replacement for actual housing and government support though,” Enjolras felt himself saying. 



“It’s not, and I hate that it isn’t. But the truth is, no organization or policy has been able to address it. It is so hard to convince people to care for elderly that are not their own family. My organization, the women’s one I volunteer with, tries to do what it can- but there simply is not enough cheap housing that we can put them in. I try to take in people when I can- we have a spare bedroom- but often they leave because they’re afraid that staying with me will reduce the very minimal government aid they get.” 



Enjolras felt his blood boil. 



“That is ridiculous! The government has an 

obligation 

to help the citizens that paid it taxes for years, and actively worked to make it a better country. They ought to ensure housing of some kind. Perhaps if we started to petition them-”



“When have petitions actually worked?” Grantaire drawled cynically from where he was helping Joly ladle impossibly dark hot cocoa into bright orange mugs. Enjolras felt his eyes narrow. How could he not see?



“I’m not as familiar with Italian history as I am American, but I am 

certain 

it has worked in the past. Especially if we tried to get the church involved, too, they would 

have 

to listen. This is outrageous. Musichetta, will you help me find the proper channels to start petitioning?” 



Musichetta’s eyes widened. 



“Of course- although I wasn’t expecting you to be so eager to take action. It’s refreshing,”



“Well, if we do not start pushing them; then who will?” Enjolras said hotly. 



“Cocoa!” Joly said in a singsong voice, setting a steaming mug in front of Enjolras, “Even young revolutionaries need chocolate on a cold night!” 



Grantaire sank into the couch next to Enjolras, decidedly not taking care to avoid touching him. Their elbows brushed and suddenly, a whole other sort of fire filled Enjolras. He was still thinking about all the things he could try to do to help the elderly, but the warmth of Grantaire, even through his sweater, made him feel different emotions entirely. And of course, there was the always-lingering sense of dread and sorrow in the back of his mind, telling him that everything he thought was meaningless anyways. But for now, for once, he could drown it out. Grantaire was there and he was going to change the world. 


 


—



Grantaire loved Musichetta. Her warmth, her kindness towards Grantaire, and the unfailing way that she supported everybody around her made him feel genuinely 

safe 

in her presence. For a moment, as he sat pressed against Enjolras on the couch, Musichetta happily telling them about women’s shelters over fresh hot cocoa, Grantaire could almost imagine himself at home here. He could pretend that Enjolras was more than just a chance friend and that they would go to a little apartment after this and just 

be 

together. 



But that was all Grantaire’s imagination. While Enjolras spent time with him now, as soon as he gained traction on his causes, Grantaire knew that he would fade from his life like poorly mixed paints. 



As he watched Enjolras come alive talking to Musichetta, an even more alarming realization struck Grantaire. In choosing to welcome Enjolras to Musichetta’s home, he had effectively replaced himself as somebody Enjolras could talk to about the things he cared about. Enjolras would never want to be Grantaire’s… friend…  now that he knew Musichetta existed in this city. He could not let Enjolras slip from his life, and yet, it seemed inevitable. Despite the darkness within Enjolras, he was clearly a god among men. He was like Obama or something, somebody clearly destined for Greatness with a capital G. Enjolras would change the world, and Grantaire was nothing more than an alcoholic who made oil paintings. 



He 

needed 

a fucking drink. 



“Hey, Joly,  do you have anything to drink?” Asking Joly was a risky move, as the exuberant young man was training to be a doctor and he undoubtedly knew about Grantaire’s issues. But, Grantaire also knew that he was the most likely of the three to actually give him a fucking drink, if only because Joly was too kind to say no to things. 



Why was his head spinning? 



Grantaire barely registered  the small glass of wine that Joly placed into his hands until he was, unconsciously, downing it in one gulp. 



But he certainly registered the sharp look that came from Enjolras when he set the glass down. 



“I thought you didn’t drink,” What was that tone? 



“I don’t, usually. Apollo.” Grantaire wasn’t drunk, but he was irritated. 



“Then why…?” Had the room gone silent? 




You’ve done it now, Grantaire. You’ve gone and fucked your friendship with Enjolras. He hates you now, and you will never see that statue again. 




“I don’t know,” Grantaire’s voice came out impossibly small. He was so afraid and yet so upset. And before he knew it, he was throwing his coat on and running out into the street. 



There was a liquor store two shops down from Musichetta’s apartment. Grantaire knew it, but he doubted the owner would remember him. He 

needed 

a drink. 



The shopkeeper barely registered Grantaire as he bought two bottles of the cheapest wine he could find and walked out into the cold, already uncorking one. 




Grantaire, you fool. You were never better than the worthless piece of shit Montparnasse always said you were. You can’t even resist the bottle. Enjolras hates you. I hate you. 




And so, for the first time in months, Grantaire let the darkness win. He drank. 




Am I really so predictable? 




Grantaire was back at the bridge where he had met Enjolras earlier. It reminded him of Apollo, and more importantly, it was the only place he remembered how to get to. 



A bottle of wine should not have hit him so hard, but he had not drank for months and the antidepressants his doctor put him on amplified the effect. The world spun slightly, but Grantaire felt… he didn’t know what he felt. The alcohol dulled his mind to his anxiety and so he fell into a snowbank, head spinning with thoughts of fallen gods and cheap wine. 



—



When Grantaire fled, Enjolras froze. Not because he wanted to, but because he was suddenly terrified. What had he done? He was not trying to be harsh to Grantaire. But even before that, Grantaire had suddenly changed. Enjolras had noticed, even while talking to Musichetta. Grantaire was so different all of a sudden and it scared Enjolras. 



He remembered what Grantaire had said about his drinking. How Grantaire almost drank himself to death. Enjolras forced himself to push past his mental statistics about alcoholism and past his judgment that Grantaire should 

really 

be in therapy. After all, so should Enjolras. Enjolras was filled with nothing but fear for Grantaire and selfishly, hope that he hadn’t destroyed whatever odd friendship they’d built. 



Musichetta was staring blankly at the door. Joly was suddenly behind her, rubbing her back as tears dripped down her face. Enjolras remembered that Musichetta had seen the worst of Grantaire’s alcoholism. 



It was Bossuet who broke the stunned silence, rising from the couch in a deliberate, certain motion. 



“We need to find him. Musichetta and Enjolras, you two split up- I’ll go with ‘Chetta and Joly can go with Enjolras- Grantaire will be fine, but we need to get him home. Whoever finds him, let the rest of us know.”



Enjolras had Musichetta’s number from his dreams of helping the world. And so, after numbly putting his jacket on, he and Joly set out into the cold. 



This was somehow his fault, he knew that much. Grantaire didn’t really drink, and yet he’d drank when he was around. Once he found Grantaire, he would disappear from Grantaire’s life entirely. Grantaire had been better before him. 



Enjolras was so deep in contemplation that it took Joly three tries to get his attention. 



“It’s not your fault,” Joly was looking at him grimly, but not unkindly, “I don’t know you at all- but I can tell you want to blame yourself. I see it a lot at the hospital. Grantaire has an addiction, and he has gotten so good at hiding it… but everybody slips,” 



Enjolras didn’t know what to say. He felt like he’d forgotten how to speak; it had been so long that even despite his conversation earlier, trying to find the right thing to say to a person who wasn’t Grantaire felt like a gargantuan task. 



“I hope we find him,” was all he could muster. Distantly, he felt his voice waver a bit and worried that Joly would worry. He didn’t even know Joly, for Christ’s sake. 



“We will. Do you know where he would go?” 



An idea.



“I-I think there’s this bridge. The second time I met him, he was there,” 



“Lead the way,” 



Blessedly, Joly was silent for a time as they walked slowly toward the bridge. Enjolras could barely place the feeling that a hydraulic press was descending on his chest, but he was so afraid.



Afraid for Grantaire. 



Afraid that it was his fault. 



Afraid that he would be alone again without Grantaire. 



“Enjolras, I don’t know you that well but I know Grantaire cares a lot about you. He’s been a lot more… Grounded in reality? Since he first mentioned you. Grantaire spends a lot of time painting and singing and looking at paintings. But with you around, he actually looks up every once in a while. I don’t think you’d hurt him, but be careful. He’s a really good guy- just more obviously flawed than some of us. But he cares a lot about you, and I don’t know if you’ve noticed, but that’s really, really hard for him. 



I’ve known him since he met Musichetta, and God knows I’ve treated him more times than he remembers. He talks too much when he’s too drunk. Just… be careful with him. This isn’t your fault and it never could be, but you could hurt him more deeply than he’s been hurt for a very long time. I’m rambling but I care a lot about Grantaire; he’s been really, really helpful to me and ‘Chetta and Bossuet. He’s like a brother to all of us. I would never be so happy without all of the help he gave us and I only want that for him.” 



Joly’s eyes were piercing into Enjolras’s soul. Enjolras burned with guilt for all of the questions he hadn’t asked Grantaire. He’d fucked up so badly. Grantaire was the best thing in this city and Enjolras had squandered it. 



“He’s helped me so much, too,” was all he could muster, “I would never hurt him.” 



—



The snow was cold, so cold around Grantaire. He was drunk, he knew that. Certainly not the drunkest he’d ever been, not by a long shot, but drunk enough that he’d have a headache in the morning. He didn’t like being alone when he was drunk, despite the immense shame he felt at his nature he just wanted Enjolras around. He wanted Eponine to talk to him, mock him in her sardonic way. God, he missed Eponine. And Enjolras. And everybody who had ever cared about him. So really, Enjolras, Eponine, and Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet. He was sure there were others but he couldn’t recall right now. 



The fact that Enjolras could never love him was so much duller now. He could almost imagine a world where he could hold Enjolras beyond brushing up against him on a couch, where Enjolras would be his and Grantaire could listen to him talk about politics forever. Where Enjolras lost that haunted look in his eyes and Grantaire didn’t hate himself anymore. Grantaire had fallen so far in a night. He had been happy. So happy, compared to who he had been. And now, he was gone. And he was alone and the snowbank was so cold and the wine was so shitty and-



“Grantaire?” Joly? Grantaire almost didn’t believe it. But it was. And… who was that, surrounded by the snow? A god? No, it 

was 

a god. Apollo. 



“Apollo!” And next thing he knew Enjolras was beside him, wrestling the bottle from his hands, and looking into his eyes. 



“Are you all right? Are you hurt?” Grantaire was too drunk for this. But he smiled anyways. 



“Yes, Apollo. I-I’m all right.” He tried to stand but fell into Enjolras’s arms. 



“Do you want me to take you to your apartment?” 



“Please don’t leave me alone-” 



“I won’t- I promise.” 



The world was spinning and Grantaire couldn’t tell if it was because he was drunk or because he was so so warm in Apollo’s hold and because this was more than he could ever dream. 




God, he needed Eponine. 

He could imagine exactly what she would say to him right now. 



“I think I remember how to get you home but I’ll put it in my map just in case,” And Enjolras was so earnest and Grantaire was so in love and-



“Uh, do you guys want me to come with you?” 



“I mean…” Enjolras faltered and Grantaire was 

way 

too drunk for Enjolras to falter.



“Here, I’ll walk back with you guys- I’m a med student so I can help make sure he gets taken care of. I’ll let you take care of him after that- but I… I saw him pass out once and I need to be there if he does,” 



—



Grantaire was impossibly warm against Enjolras, even through several layers of jackets. His arm was carelessly sprawled across Enjolras’s shoulders and Enjolras tentatively had his arm around Grantaire’s waist to support him. Grantaire was staggering, although not so much that Enjolras doubted that he could get home alone- but Joly had draped Grantaire’s arm over his shoulders and so he had ever so gently supported the man. 



It was impossible to tell how drunk Grantaire was (and not just because Enjolras barely drank). Clearly too drunk to drive, or go to work, but it seemed to Enjolras that he was probably lucid enough to know what he was saying and remember it in the morning. But then again, they had found two entire empty bottles of wine with Grantaire. Enjolras forgot about himself for a moment, for once, and all he could think about was if Grantaire was all right. He wanted his friends, his friends from 

home 

who he didn’t even know anymore, to tell him if he was correct in anything. He yearned for Combeferre, to hear his endless steady wisdom and understand the rational thing to do. 



They were almost at Grantaire’s apartment before Enjolras realized that Grantaire was happily leaning his head on Enjolras’s shoulder and smiling widely. At Enjolras’s surprised glance, Grantaire merely smiled even wider and leaned into him. 




Grantaire is drunk, this doesn’t mean anything. It can’t. You are impossible to love. Remember Combeferre. 




They were at Grantaire’s doorway.



“Where are your keys, Grantaire?” Joly looked so worried. 



“Uhhhh shit,” Grantaire fell even more into Enjolras, “I think I left them at your house,”



“Here, I’ll come back with them then,” Joly was already brandishing his cane for the trek through the blizzard. 



“I live pretty close by. Let’s just take him to my place, and he can get his keys tomorrow,” Enjolras was surprised at his own authoritativeness. But all he wanted was to care for Grantaire. 



And so, Enjolras 

almost 

forgot that Grantaire’s arm was around his shoulders and his around Grantaire’s waist, and that Grantaire kept calling him Apollo and smiling in a horrible, beautiful, careless, drunken way. 



Joly was silent beside them, thumping along with his cane as if his life depended on it. 



The streetlights were practically invisible beneath the snow that was pouring down around them; the only indication that there was even light at all was the soft, orange light that seemed to come from nowhere every ten feet or snow. 



It wasn’t just Joly who was silent, though. The world seemed to be waiting with bated breath, as if this was some odd intermediary period between the 

before 

and the 

after. 

Several stores remained open as they got closer and closer to Enjolras’s house: a pasta place, and some kind of convenience store that Enjolras had gotten some kind of horn-shaped chip from once. 



And then, slicing the odd reverie of the silent, white night, they were at Enjolras’s building and Grantaire was looking at him with an inexplicable expression and leaning in and-



“Enjolras? Your key?” Enjolras jumped, as if awakened from a trance. He didn’t even know what he had felt moments before, didn’t know anything and his mind was spinning and he was grabbing his key and they were half carrying, half guiding Grantaire to his apartment, before finally opening the door and kicking off soaked, icey boots, and Grantaire was lying on the floor and Enjolras couldn’t breath, couldn’t think. 



Enjolras was sober but he felt just as dizzy as he imagined Grantaire did. Distantly, he hated himself for not being able to take care of his… 

friend… 

without fucking panicking and losing his mind. 



Only the sharp pain of his fingernails digging into his palms brought him back to reality. Enjolras forced himself to breathe and focus only on the task at hand: helping Grantaire. Joly was leaning over Grantaire on the floor, asking him questions and checking his pupils. 



“Are you sure it was two bottles?” 

It? 




“Yes, my good sir!” And in that moment, Enjolras’s heart broke a little. Where was the effortlessly sardonic, lucid, kind man he knew? Had he lost him so fast? 



“Well, I think you should be okay. You’ll feel like shit in the morning, but have some water-Enjolras, do you have glasses?” 




Oh shit. 

The possibility that Joly might see his fucked up abode had not even occured to Enjolras .



“I’ll get him a plastic water bottle- I have a case in the kitchen and that way he won’t break anything,” 



At least he had been smart enough to buy a case of water a couple weeks ago to make himself drink (even if he felt like drowning every time he considered the impact of those water bottles). 



Drunk Grantaire had enough sense to down the entire bottle of water before falling back onto the floor giggling. 



“Enjolras, I think he will be alright. I know he can handle more than this- and if he was going to get sick, we’d know by now. Just… keep him company until he falls asleep and try to get him to drink some more water and maybe eat something. Carbs would be good. I know you have my number now- call me or ‘Chetta if you need anything. And tell Grantaire to call us in the morning,” 


“Sure thing,” “And Enjolras-” Joly paused, “Take care of yourself. I know we don’t know each other well, but-” And his eyes wandered down to Enjolras’s left arm, where somewhere along the way, his sleeve had gotten tugged up. 


Enjolras froze, forced himself to nod, and stared at the door as Joly shut it behind him, leaving him alone with his thoughts, a very drunk Grantaire, and no idea what to do. 








The only thing Enjolras could think to do was help Grantaire onto the armchair where he’d spent so many miserable, solitary nights. Grantaire was definitely awake and at least quasi-aware, but the way he kept looking at Enjolras and whispering 

Apollo 

oh so reverently, so devoutly that even Enjolras felt it. This was so 

odd. 

It was impossible that Grantaire could hold anything but contempt for him, or reluctant pity, or something like that. 



And why had Grantaire downed all that wine? Enjolras understood how hard addiction was, he truly did, but how could he possibly understand why Grantaire, when surrounded by friends as lovely as Musichetta, could not hold on? It wasn’t anger he felt, not at all, it was just frustration because Grantaire could be so 

good 

and how could he let that escape him? 



Enjolras forced himself to stop musing needlessly. Grantaire needed somebody to care for him, and he’d chosen that role for himself. He needed to forget that interaction with Joly; forget that somebody 

knew, 

and help Grantaire, who had practically saved his life without even knowing. If Grantaire could somehow see past the awfulness of Enjolras, Enjolras could forget that Grantaire had drank himself silly and help him. 



When Enjorlas forced himself into lucidity, Grantaire was staring at him intently. 



“Are you okay?” Was all he could muster. 



“The whole world is spinning but for you, Apollo,” 



“Then I’ll sit with you, if that helps.” Enjolras sat on the floor in front of Grantaire. His knees immediately hurt against the cold wood-much like everything in his house, it remained undecorated. 



Grantaire made a noise of discontent and dropped to the floor as well, settling just a few inches in front of Enjolras. Despite everything, Enjolras’s heart did a backflip. 



The golden brown eyes staring at him were slightly unfocused, lightly lost in a world that Enjolras wasn’t in. Grantaire was flushed and his mouth was ever so slightly open, almost giving the appearance of surprise or alarm. He was beautiful. Enjolras wanted to make the world right for Grantaire: he knew Grantaire had done so much of that himself but he wanted to catch Grantaire and hope that Grantaire would catch him back. In that moment, even with Grantaire’s drunkenness, and even with his own pain, Enjolras realized he was in love. 



And in that moment, Grantaire started giggling incomprehensibly.



“And I-I thought I could keep up with 

you, 

Apollo,” 



His voice was sad and matter of fact all at once. 



“What do you mean, Grantaire?” 



“I’m drunk-” a giggle again, “you’re too good for me- you’re like a 

god- 

i’ve seen your arms,” Enjolras’s heart sank, “but that is not 

you- 

you got rid of a fucking 

billboard- 

all I do is paint bullshit and show people paintings- I don’t want to die anymore but I… I wish I could change the world like you will.” 



Enjolras’s heart broke. 



“Grantaire, I’m here because I 

can’t change the world. 

I couldn’t even save my friendships.” 



—



Grantaire sobered up in an instant. Apollo had surprised him once again- but in the worst way possible. 



Enjolras’s eyes, usually so sharp and aware, avoided his gaze. He seemed so much smaller than he did when he was telling Musichetta about all that could be done- that 

he 

would do, to change the world. And yet, here he was, telling 

Grantaire 

that he was no better than him, that Apollo, too, felt mortal. 



Grantaire couldn’t tell if he was too drunk or not drunk enough for this. 



“That’s crazy,” he stuttered, “I think you could move the world if you tried,” 



It was somehow the wrong thing to say. Enjolras stiffened, and gone was the vulnerability of moments before, replaced with a cold marble facade. 



“You’re drunk. We’ll talk in the morning. Drink some water and go to sleep.” And Enjolras handed him another glass of water, and shut a door behind him. 



The world spun a little. 








When Enjolras woke, Grantaire was gone. His hat remained on the floor, looking particularly sad against the undecorated room. Other than that, the only indication that another person had been there at all was the empty glass of water carefully placed by the sink next to the half-filled rice cooker. 



Enjolras hoped Grantaire hadn’t left after he went to bed. The thought of Grantaire walking drunk and alone through the streets of Rome terrified him (even if he was certain it had happened before). He knew things would have to change between them after the events of the previous night, but all the same, he 

had 

to know if Grantaire was all right before he undoubtedly disappeared from Enjolras’s life. 



And, the fact that Grantaire had seen his apartment in it’s raw, depressed state, made him feel ill. Not to mention, 

Joly. 




And so, he reluctantly opened his phone (no new messages as usual), made himself ignore his previous messages with Grantaire, and forced himself to type a new message. 



Enjolras: 
Hey, did you make it home alright? I just want to make sure you’re okay. 



Quite literally three seconds later, Grantaire replied. 



Grantaire: 
yeah im good, feeling much better this morning



Grantaire: 
sorry about last night



Grantaire: 
i hope you don’t hate me



Enjolras almost dropped his phone. How could he 

ever, ever 

hate Grantaire? 



Enjolras: 
I don’t. Don’t worry about it, we all have our moments. I have your hat, also. Do you want to meet up tomorrow so I can give it to you?



Grantaire: 
sure



—-



Grantaire was getting his nails done and calling Eponine again. He wasn’t hungover, somehow, but his stomach hurt all the same. Eponine was the only person he wanted to talk to. And right now, she was staring at him as he read Enjolras’s newest message. 



“He doesn’t hate me, Ep!” Through the phone screen, Eponine glared at him. 



“Well, maybe if he didn’t act so much better than you then this wouldn’t have happened.” 



“I don’t think he means to. I think he’s just 

better. 

I feel like a mortal compared to him.” 



Now she looked really angry. 


“Dude, I know you really like this guy, but you need to stop idolizing him. You did this with Montparnesse too. Enjolras is not a god, he’s a dude. I think he could be very good for you and with you but I will literally fly out there and break you up if you keep acting like he’s a god.” 


Well, shit. She was right. Rationally, Grantaire knew this already, but something about Eponine’s seemingly endless knowledge of his own mind made everything much clearer. His former therapist had also brought up this tendency, something about his own feelings of inadequacy leading him to see perfection in other people. He hated therapy, hated being picked apart by somebody he paid to do so, but even he had to acknowledge that his therapist might have been on to something. 



He was mad at himself for letting his own mind get out of control. Enjolras deserved better than him- not just because Enjolras was a god among men, but because he deserved somebody, a 

stable 

friend (or hopefully, maybe, somehow, more). 



“Grantaire?” 



 “Sorry. You’re right. I’m an idiot,” 



She laughed a little. 



“Of course you are. But that’s why you’ll always have me, idiot,”



“Speaking of idiot, have you heard from Marius lately?” 



He could practically feel her glare through the screen almost as clearly as she turned bright red. 



“Well… he’s actually going to Italy soon. Something about a girl who works at a hotel who he met briefly or something?” She did not look happy about the hotel girl, but Grantaire tactfully ignored that in favor of the Italy part.  



 “I mean, not to enable you but… you’ve never been to Italy. And Gavroche, he could probably use some cultural exposure, no?” Grantaire knew this was an entirely selfish request on his part, but right now, all he wanted was the stability that Eponine’s presence afforded. He felt like a mess, and she was his best friend in the world. Plus, he 

needed 

Chetta and Eponine to meet and bond over their shared love of shitty reality TV. 



“Plane tickets are expensive..” 



“Dude, I have an embarrassing amount of frequent flier miles from after I left the States.” It was only partially true, he’d traveled some, but Grantaire wholeheartedly planned on making up the difference with his extra savings. He only really spent money on food and art supplies, anyway. 

Damn, 

he missed Eponine. The last time they’d hung out in person, had been the only time he’d come back to the States. And seeing his parents again had not done good things for his… vices. He owed it to Eponine to have fun, and not just make sure he made it home every night. And he hadn’t properly seen Gavroche in years, either. 



He could almost convince himself that this wasn’t an entirely selfish decision. That he wouldn’t hurt Eponine somehow by taking her to the very place that the guy she loved who would never love her was going to visit another girl. 



“If you’re serious, Grantaire, Gavroche has spring break in like five weeks. I have a lot of vacation days I haven’t used.” Eponine would never just say yes to something like this, but Grantaire broke into a wide smile. He needed her. 



“Honestly, just text me the dates and I can find the plane tickets. Y’all can stay at my place, and I can just ask for a week off from work. They love me there, it’s not a big deal,”



“I can pay you back for the tickets, dude. Seriously, please don’t go broke for me.” 



“You don’t need to. I mean it, I have a ridiculous amount of frequent flier miles from my travel and party era that I’m not going to use,” 



Eponine’s darkly lined eyes crinkled happily, even though Grantaire could tell she was trying not to. He felt like a weight was lifted from his shoulders. Yes, he was still happy in Italy, but the appearance of Enjolras had stirred up things he’d thought he’d buried. Being around Enjolras made Grantaire feel scrubbed bare, as if he could not hide a single thing from that inquisitive gaze. It felt like all of his hidden faults were on full display, as if whatever he had with Enjolras teetered on a precipice built on the person Grantaire had built in Italy. If the person he had been came out, it would break the illusion and it would become clear that Grantaire had not fully cleaned up the mess of his past. 



Eponine would help him make sense of it all. She always did. 



He looked down at his toenails, which were now painted dark red.



—



Enjorlas was back in bed. He convinced himself that he was okay, that he was in bed because the heating was turned down to save energy, burning less fossil fuels, not because he felt so deeply unsafe that only the warmth of the blankets around him gave him any sense of safety. 



He checked his phone for the millionth time. Nothing from Grantaire, which was the only text he would have replied to, anyways. But he wanted to 

hurt. 

His mind had been so numb today. Whether it was from his clear fault in Grantaire’s relapse, or Joly’s seeing his arms, or his persistent failure to do 

anything, 

he felt nothing and all he wanted was for his soul to hurt. 

What the fuck is wrong with me. 




But that question remained unanswered. Instead, Enjolras forced perhaps the greatest pain upon his heart that he could imagine. He read every single text message his friends had sent him since he stopped responding. 



Jehan: 

e, sorry our call last night got interrupted :( chat again soon? Miss you <33333 




Enjolras had refused to answer Jehan’s calls since that night. 



A month after that message, another one had come through. 



Jehan: 

hey e none of us have heard from you in months 




Jehan: 

are you okay? I know what happened with ‘ferre was bad but he is worried about you as we are 




And a couple days later, more from Jehan. 



Jehan: 

seriously e we miss you and we’re worried about you. soph saw your dad at the store and asked about you but all you dad could say is that nobody has called and said youre dead. 




Jehan: 

we 

all 

love you enjolras. 




Jehan: 

combeferre hasnt stopped worrying about you. he called me crying last night. I know he knows the most about you and it scares me how scared he is. 

please, 

just tell us you’re okay or if youre not i will come to italy




Enjolras was crying. He hadn’t cried in months. Jehan was an angel, and he felt so sorry for hurting Jehan. And Enjolras missed his friends: the laughter, the drunken nights plotting, their dreams. He missed Combeferre and Jehan’s texts made him all too hopeful that maybe, just maybe, he and Combeferre could be friends again. 



But he also couldn’t forget why it had all fallen apart. How Combeferre had abandoned him in the end, how his dreams had slipped from his grasp and shattered. 



“

Enjolras, we have to stop fighting sometime. I know community college will give 

you 

time but the rest of us have careers to pursue. The ABC is done. I will always support your causes, but I can’t follow you on this path. You need a new dream.” 




How many times had Enjolras replayed this memory? How could he forget how Combeferre had betrayed everything they had talked about since middle school, and how the other Amis had not spoken up? How Enjolras had tried to argue with Combeferre until Courfeyrac had grabbed Combeferre’s arm and dragged him from the house? 



And how after Combeferre had left, Enjolras retreated into his room and made his arm a mangled tapestry of blood he wished he could shed for the world until he’d fainted on the floor of the bathroom. 



And how when he’d woken, he wished he hadn’t. How Jehan’s feverish knocking on his door had stopped him from swallowing half a bottle of vodka and all the pills in the house. 



And how he’d begged his parents to lend him the money to leave the country for a “gap year”, and how they hadn’t even blinked when he’d left two days later. 



How could he forget how his best friend abandoned him? 







We hear from a background character...


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



Combeferre hadn’t stopped worrying in two days. Ever since Soph (Bahorel’s girlfriend) had seen Enjolras’s dad at the grocery store, Combeferre couldn’t stop thinking about Enjolras. They hadn’t spoken since 

that 

night in September. It was February now. Christmas, Halloween, and half of the Amis’s birthdays had passed. And no word from Enjolras, Combeferre’s best friend since before he could even remember. Combeferre had texted to apologize, and he wasn’t sure if Enjolras hadn’t opened the message, or had read it and was ignoring him. THe only blessing is that he knew Enjolras was, at least, still alive. He knew Enjolras too well to know that that was a given. 



Those days in high school where Enjolras had barely eaten, barely done anything but work, feverishly dragging himself to his classes in between countless online campaigns, internships, and whatever the hell else Enjolras put himself through to save the world. And Combeferre had been at his side for most of it, writing pamphlets when Enjolras got too angry, going vegan to help the planet, and stopping buying new clothes his senior year. He’d loved his best friend- 

still 

loved his best friend, and hated himself all the more for making Enjolras’s worst fear come true. 



He couldn’t forget the first time he’d found Enjolras during a panic attack. Enjolras had led his first pride protest at the state capitol, giving a truly glorious speech condemning the hypocrisy of the senators who had passed a bill prohibiting queer education in schools. And yet, Enjolras had disappeared into a Chipotle bathroom after the speech. Which is where Combeferre had found him, hyperventilating in a ball against the wall, blood on his hands. 



Later, Enjolras had told him that his greatest fear was that all of his work would be for nothing, that everything he had fought for would be gone before he was. He was afraid that his friends wouldn’t follow him to the pits of hell for all humanity, and that nobody would ever love him.



Combeferre had told him that the Amis would never abandon his causes. And it was Combeferre who had so thoroughly broken the idealist by telling him no a year later.



It was his fault Enjolras fled to Italy. He didn’t even know what was for Enjolras in Italy. Combeferre liked to think Enjolras had turned the world upside down half a universe away, but he feared that the fire had gone out. He hated himself for not calling Enjolras, but he couldn’t bear to remember the way Enjolras had shattered that night. Nor could he make himself forget what Jehan had told him. 



Courfeyrac told him to try again. The three of them had always been the triumvirate of righteous love. Of course, that had frayed when Courf and Combeferre had kissed at a party during the summer. Enjolras had acted happy, but they both knew his heart broke a little knowing his best friends were in love. But perhaps Courf was right. 



Combeferre opened his phone. 







I hope this interlude adds something!