Title: Such a Rainy Night Shall Awaken Some Feelings
Work ID: 46228582
Author: Aeschyli
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Rain, Late Night Conversations, Home, Domestic Fluff, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Fluff, Rated T for hinted smut, Vanilla, Cute, Romantic Fluff, No Smut, Chinese Food, Old Age, Old Men In Love
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

When the first raindrop reached the bus windshield, Valjean didn’t quite care. When the hundredth did, he sighed deeply and smiled, as though he wanted to yet decide whether the rain was a good or a bad thing to happen this evening.

Honestly, he should’ve expected it. This whole day was gloomy, the sky filled with dark clouds from the very morning. Rain was more than predictable, if Valjean was being honest. Yet, he hoped that it wouldn’t start before he made it to his destination. But maybe it was supposed to be like that? Maybe rain was romantic – Valjean wasn’t sure, but he would lie if he said he didn’t want to smile because of the downpour outside the safe and warm inside of the bus. Maybe rain wasn’t that terrible. After all, it did add something to the atmosphere of the bus ride Jean participated in in order to enlighten this gloomy evening with a gloomy person who he happened to love, for some odd reason.

It was a date. A stay-in date, just hanging out some, for he and Javert hadn’t seen each other in quite some time. It was no wonder since how busy Javert was; he had so many cases to care for, leaving him little time to care for Valjean, as he sometimes worried. In all truth, he had enough time to care for Valjean – just maybe not enough to meet him as often as he’d like. Fortunately, they managed to arrange a meeting this melancholy evening, though from what Jean’s watch was saying, according to their previous plan they were to have already started their date. Yet, Valjean hummed silently in his bus seat, slowly getting ready to leave it, because he was to step out on the next stop.

Javert had asked him for additional fifteen minutes, because he had yet to clean the house. It wasn’t that Valjean cared – he wished to spend some lovely time with his partner, not his clean house – but naturally, he agreed and departed from his own place a bit later than he meant, so that he didn’t have to wait with no purpose.

He left the bus and felt the raindrops fall on his coat, ready to make it significantly heavier. Valjean smiled again, just remaining positive and being glad for every little thing in life. He then moved towards the one spot he had to visit before stopping in Javert’s doorstep; the Chinese restaurant across Javert’s house. Normally, he wasn’t maybe exactly up for eating such foods but it was a decent quick meal and Javert claimed himself too tired to cook or ponder about some other dinner options. This restaurant, so close to his house and exactly on the way, was a good choice on an evening like this.

Valjean stepped inside the place and smiled at the worker who was taking orders next to the cash register. He waited for maybe a minute in the queue, deciding on his own order in the time remaining and checking the text Javert had sent him with his own order, not to forget anything.

“One Pad Thai with chicken and one fried rice with shrimps, please. Both with mild sauce,” he ordered, still with a polite smile on his face. The Asian worker in front of him reciprocated the grin, repeating the order out loud, and, having made sure that it was correct, shouted it in the direction of the restaurant’s kitchen.

Jean had to wait shortly; nothing surprising, since the place was a Chinese restaurant. He hummed along with the random song that played on the radio and quickly checked his phone to see what message Cosette had sent him a minute ago. When his order was called out, he smiled once again at the workers and stepped out of the place, on to make his way to the building across the street.

The bristle had stopped, he noticed, yet the air was still humid and wet. The water of the puddles on the ground shimmered from the lit street lanterns. It was a pretty, rainy night, Valjean thought as he was crossing the street in peace and placidity.

He got into the building without having to use the key or call Javert – some lady was just leaving with her dog, so Valjean sneaked inside the block with no trouble and quickly walked up the stairs, grateful for seeing his dearest partner soon, after… What would it be? Maybe up to even three weeks of solitude.

Surely enough to be considered too long, he decided as he knocked the door.

It was opened by Javert in quite a disarray; gloomy as always, but on a short breath and with uncombed hair. He must’ve only just finished cleaning the imagined mayhem in his house.

Yet, no matter how troubled Javert looked, he was beautiful as always in Jean’s eyes.

“Good evening, my love,” he said. Javert huffed and rolled his eyes at that.

“Good evening? It’s rainy, I am late, very much late, I had a torturously long day at work and you must be very tired, since it’s such a late hour alre-“ He was interrupted by Valjean’s short kiss on his lips. The older man then grinned, having moved aside and held up the bag of Chinese food he’d brought with himself.

“Shall we eat?” He asked delightfully, as though Javert hadn’t just ranted to him about how terrible his today was. Javert, now at the loss of his words, only nodded and invited Jean inside.

They soon after sat at the kitchen table, now both comfortable, for Jean had taken off his coat and Javert had been quite assured that the late hour and the rain were no issue. The older man took out the take-out food from the bag and grabbed cutlery from the kitchen cabinet, giving one set to Javert who just pouted in his chair, as always.

“You needn’t have done that,” he announced with blush visible on his cheeks, even in the little light in the room. “I would be perfectly fine picking up my fork and knife,” he murmured.

Valjean smiled and fed him some of his Pad Thai. Javert swallowed it without question.

He then spoke, taking advantage of Javert’s preoccupied mouth. “My dear, you’ve done enough today. You’re tired and you’ve had enough of having to do chores,” Jean noted. “Let yourself be pleased with little things sometimes.”

“You already had to grab the food for us,” Javert muttered just before he started chewing on a portion of fried rice.

“And I was more than happy to do so, if that meant taking some burden off your shoulders and being able to spend some lovely time with you.” Jean smiled, giving Javert a soft glance. Javert almost melted at that glare, overheated with the loving gaze of Valjean.

They ate in peace and silent, keeping their conversation light and botherless. If Javert still felt bad for giving some of his “duties” to Valjean, he didn’t show it anymore. Instead, he actually tried to relax as well. Jean noticed it as he was chewing on his macaroni; that his partner’s face softened, the nervous wrinkles disappearing and him having a younger expression thanks to this. This sight made Jean smile, and his smile made Javert smile (a rather rare sight) which only added to the loving, romantic atmosphere of the rainy evening.

With food eaten and both well sated, Javert and Valjean moved to the couch, having put the dirty cutlery in the washing machine beforehand. Javert’s couch was perhaps a bit too small for two grown men, but somehow they managed; Valjean sitting straight and Javert lying down, maybe a bit awkwardly for he deemed such a position objectionable for a grown man, nevertheless relaxed with his head in his partner’s lap, having his hair gently petted and combed through with Valjean’s fingers.

In such a setting, Javert closed his eyes in pleasure, gently holding the older man’s other hand in his own. He played with his fingers lousily, not very much focused on anything around but Valjean’s voice that was whispering some sweet nothings above him. Valjean, meanwhile, kept his eyes on his partner, admiring the beauty of the person in his lap. This white skin that he hadn’t had a chance to feel in the past three weeks, these usually pursed lips, now not stressed at all, these long strands of black-grey hair, so delicate and yet so remarkable. All these traits and so many other qualities of Javert made Jean want to just pepper him with compliments and love, because there would never be enough for how much this man deserved, in Jean’s eyes.

Javert purred with glee as Valjean petted his head tenderly. Now the desire to show his affection for the younger man seemed irresistible to Valjean.

“You know, my dearest,” he spoke in a silvery tone. “I’ve really missed you in the past three weeks.”

Javert groaned quietly.

“So did I,” he confessed.

“Meeting with you today was the best thing that happened to me recently,” Jean continued. He lifted Javert’s hand and brought it to his lips, making the younger man blush.

“You met with your daughter earlier this week.”

“Ah, yes, I certainly did.” Valjean kept combing through Javert’s hair with his strong fingers. “But no matter how pleasurable, the meeting was in no way as pleasant to me as this one, with you.”

Javert laughed. “You’re flattering me.”

“Good,” Jean whispered. “Indeed, very good.”

He moved below, but didn’t even need to exercise a lot to get to what he planned; that was, to kiss Javert. They met halfway, they lips intertwining in a loving kiss, not quite innocent but not quite heated either. And with that small, almost innocent movement, nothing else mattered. Like this, they were both connected. So close to each other, never wishing to break apart and have to face the world or its principles ever again. It was like the end of their story, written together somehow from the very beginning to actually bring them so near one another on such a rainy night, with the sounds on the downpour to be heard in the background. Yet, with neither of the lovers caring. Because who would care for such minor, daily inconvenience as rain, when they had each other? When they now stayed just as they were, Javert’s arms around Valjean’s neck and Valjean’s arms in two places, though both on his partner’s body – one still in his hair, now holding firmly and protectively, the other uplifting his whole figure and keeping him steady in this long, loving kiss.

The world outside didn’t exist as the feelings floated between the two men in Javert’s living room.

The kiss itself, however, lived and was getting ever so stronger, more hungry and fiery with every second, the three weeks of solitude finally showing and making both men long for other another. The mix of hot saliva, starved lips and strong grips of strong arms was then broken by Valjean who, struggling to keep his breath stable, whispered yet another sentence for Javert to hear.

“Shall we take this to the bedroom?”

A question asked, met with a clear answer – a nod – led to an even greater floating of feeling during this rainy night. And oh, were they both, Jean and Javert, ever so pleased by the romantic ambience of it.