Title: thawing
Work ID: 44222317
Author: prolixcreature
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Cold Weather, Snowed In, Implied Sexual Content, Aftermath, Implied/Referenced Suicide attempt, Modern Era
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


Javert awoke to bitter cold, a raging headache, and soreness all over.  He groaned, shifting and squeezing his eyes shut to try and block out the light streaming through the window. Gritting his teeth after a few moments of clinging to his sheets, he drowsily removed them— only to realize that he was completely sans clothing.


 


God help him.


 


The events of the previous night came to him in vignettes, the taste of alcohol still dull on his tongue. He swallowed, a disturbing amalgam of heat and revulsion in his stomach. Javert scanned the room, finding no sign of Valjean's ever having been there. He and his clothes were gone, and nothing appeared touched or out of place. Good.


 


A shiver ran through his body, arms subconsiously crossed over his bare chest. As he got up to get dressed, he grabbed his phone off of the nightstand to check the date and time. Tuesday, January 10, 6:32AM. There was still time to get to work. He was not scheduled for today, but the station never complained when he clocked in on off-days. Besides, following the riotous after-party that ensued the mandated office social event, he was sure many would call out and they would need extra hands.


 


Javert got into uniform, with the addition of his greatcoat on account of the weather, and made his way to the restroom to freshen up. When he went to flick on the lights and found them unresponsive, however, it was then that it dawned upon him that there was a power outage. Great.


 


He felt himself scowl, glancing into the mirror for the first time. There, he found an unhappy old man with untended whiskers, tangled hair, and a bruise above the white collar of his button up. His scowl deepened, the lines of his face much more pronounced in the odd lighting of the dark room. He did not know how many of those bruises were left, but he was certain, despite his best efforts, that he would end up counting.


 


Ignoring the last thought with utmost indignation, he tidied himself. Javert put great care into his appearance, it was part of his plight to irreproachability. And with the relatively recent denouncement of his core principles, he put even greater care into it. If he could not end his life, he might as well live it with dignity. So he shaved, he brushed his hair and pulled it back, he applied concealer over the hickey, et cetera, et cetera.


 


As he entered the foyer the chill increased, seeping into his home underneath the front door. Then, through the window, he saw something move. He nearly missed it, white hair blending with the snow in his peripheral vision. 


 


Javert forbade the dots from connecting. If he did not realize that Valjean was outside, he would not have to acknowledge it. If he intended on going to work on time, however, he would have to pay him mind and soon. With a resigned sigh, he opened the door.


 


“What are you still doing here?” He demanded.


 


Valjean startled, meeting his accusatory gaze with a slightly frightful one. He quickly moved past the shock, though, and regained composure as he seemed to realize he was not in danger. Javert did not know how to feel about no longer being dangerous in his eyes.


 


“Over a foot of snow fell last night,” Valjean started gently, “I called a taxi but they said they would not be able to come out until the roads were cleared and salted.”


 


Javert glanced out into the driveway, finding his car buried in what did, in fact, look like over a foot of snow.


 


“Damn.” He supposed he would not going to work, after all.


 


Looking back to Valjean, they simply stared at each other for an awkward moment. The other's face was flushed, bitten with cold, flecks of ice having accumulated in his beard.


 


Weighing his options, Javert pinched the bridge of his nose as his brow furrowed, deciding on the most wretched but least cruel of the lot. He was trying to change, he really was. That did not mean he had to be happy about it. He gestured inside with a frown, “Come in.” It sounded like more of a command than an invitation.


 


Valjean raised his brows, “I do not mind sitting outside,” then averted his eyes, “I understand that you probably do not wish to see me at the moment.”


 


This rose Javert’s hackles, “Nonsense. You will freeze.” Irrespective of whether or not he wanted to interact with or even see Valjean, it was ridiculous to let him sit outside in this weather.


 


Seeing that this was apparently not up for debate, Valjean nodded, “Thank you.” He got up stiffly and gave a quick questioning glance to Javert, who responded with an exasperated glare, before going inside.


 


Valjean hovered around the dining table and Javert by the door once he had shut and locked it.


 


“You can sit,” he said finally.


 


“Okay,” and Valjean sat.


 


Silence. Javert went into the kitchen, staring daggers at the several, varyingly empty, beer bottles on his otherwise pristine countertop. They must have taken them from the party, because he did not carry any alcohol in his home besides the solitary, untouched bottle of wine someone had gifted him a long time ago. 


 


Did he drive them home? He must have, because he had driven himself to the initial social. Jesus, how stupid could he get? Imagine, a senior police detective getting a DUI. Well, apparently, he could get much, much stupider. Because, of course, at the bar the afterparty happened to occur at, there was the ex-con Jean Valjean! And, of course, that was who Javert had come home with. He recalled that there were many emotions, feelings, involved in the whole affair. It made him sick to think about.


 


“So,” Valjean broke the silence softly.


 


“Yes?” He snapped.


 


“Are we going to talk about it?”


 


“It?” Javert scoffed, “You mean the ravenous sex we had last night.”


 


Valjean's flush, which had begun to ebb, darkened. “…Yes. You could put it that way.”


 


“What is there to talk about?”


 


“'What is there to talk about?'” Valjean repeated incredulously, “Javert, if I remember correctly, it was both of our first times.“


 


He avoided eye contact. “And?”


 


“You said you were in love with me.” It was almost a whisper, like if Valjean said it any louder it would break him. It might have broken Javert even at that volume, he wasn’t sure yet.


 


He had already said it. What was there to lose? “Well, it’s true.”


 


Valjean’s eyes widened, evidently dumbfounded.


 


“I am assuming, by your expression, that your reciprocal sentiment was the drink talking.“ 


 


A cold dread welled in his chest, a ghost of river water in his lungs. Javert had fallen in love with Valjean not because he had saved his life, but because of how he had gone about it. And when Javert said ‘saved his life,’ he meant more than being dragged from the river. He would say none of that mattered, now, but it did. Valjean had permanently altered him, he could not go back to who he once was even if he tried. It was not the kind of thing that dissipated with severed contact.


 


“No.” Valjean looked affronted, almost.


 


“What?”


 


A soft smile crossed Valjean’s features, eyes crinkling slightly.


 


“What?” Javert repeated, growing wrought.


 


Valjean did not reply, instead getting up and making his way over. He then, impossibly, reached out and cupped Javert’s cheek. Javert flinched, at first, the calloused skin of Valjean’s hand frigid to the touch, and Valjean began to retract as though burned. Catching his hand midway, Javert brought it back to his face, a fantastic sensation against his now blazing flesh. They stood there dumbly for several moments, hand over hand.


 


“You are maddening me,” Javert murmured, shifting with embarrassment, “What is the meaning of this?”


 


Valjean smiled fully, now, bright and wonderful, “The meaning is that I love you, too.”


 


“Oh.” He blinked.


 


Javert leaned in, tilting his head and placing a kiss upon Valjean’s lips, perhaps more tenderly than he had ever done anything. It was much better sober.
