Title: The Coin of His Shame
Work ID: 17720177
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Fantine & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Dubious Consent, Dom/sub, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Montreuil-sur-Mer, First Time, Self-Sacrifice, Angst, Enemies to Lovers, Alternate Universe - Slavery, Hurt/Comfort, Captivity, Spanking, Flogging, Hand Feeding, Cock & Ball Torture, Predicament Bondage, Fisting, Pony Play, Slow Burn Feelings, Romance, Happy Ending, Paris Era, Fantine Lives
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 93/93

Valjean did not allow himself to think of the chains that awaited him when he handed over the reins of his horse in front of the courthouse of Arras.

The palomino was out of breath, his golden coat wet with sweat. The Spanish gelding was one of the finest beasts in the entire department, or so the mayor’s admirers had often proclaimed, yet even so the horse had been driven to exhaustion by their relentless race.

But perhaps it hadn’t been enough. Perhaps even the palomino’s thundering gallop was not enough to stem the tide, to halt the merciless ticking of the clock. Perhaps he was too late, and the dreadful thing awaiting within would not come to pass after all...

At the shameful thought, the burn in his palm ached with renewed fury, driving tears to Valjean’s eyes. He had to blink them away before he announced himself to the man guarding the door.

Had he not done enough evil? Was the burn that plagued him even now not enough to teach him what must be done? He was a filthy thief, a monster who had stolen from a child—but even so, perhaps his soul might yet be saved.

But to take a willing step further into the darkness inside his heart, which had whispered all the way to Arras in his mind with the voice of the devil that he would be free at last if another were to take his place in the prison hulks...

Valjean was a monster to even contemplate such a thing. He was a man who had stolen from a child. He knew he deserved no mercy. But he was no murderer, not yet. He would not condemn an innocent to the hell that was Toulon.

When he entered the courtroom, people stared. Many recognized him, for he had built a good life for himself in Montreuil. For a few years, he had allowed himself to believe that a man could make up in such a way for past sins. And yet, what good were all the hospital beds in the world to the young boy all alone on that mountain road near Digne?

A shiver ran down Valjean’s back when he met Javert’s eyes. The Inspector sat on a bench at the front—ready, no doubt, to be called upon as witness.

Valjean swallowed, then forced himself to look away. It would all be over soon enough. Javert would have what he’d always wanted.

But an innocent man would remain free. And perhaps, at long last, the boy’s sobs that had haunted his dreams for so long would fall silent...

Valjean turned towards the judge and bowed before he took his place next to where the mayor of Arras sat, his white sash wound around his body.

Again Valjean’s gaze flickered towards Javert, who inclined his head with mocking slowness in return. A mere minute or two, and Javert would no longer be forced to address him respectfully...

Biting back a groan, Valjean cradling his aching hand. The burn still throbbed fiercely. Grasping the reins on the long ride had hurt—but was it not an agony he deserved? The pain flared with every beat of his heart now, a dull throb that filled his head. It took long moments until Valjean realized that the accused sitting on the chair near the judge was not a man his own age.

Was he truly too late then? Was the trial already over?

Something inside Valjean twisted, the burn flaring into new pain even as his heart skipped a beat with shocked relief.

His mind reeling, Valjean found himself staring at a woman. Something about her seemed strangely familiar. He'd expected a vagrant, a man his age—perhaps bearded, and dirty from his travels: the man Valjean had been, six years ago, when he'd walked from Toulon to Digne.

Instead, a young woman was sitting there—a woman in her twenties, with long, brown hair. Her face was wet with tears and her eyes red. The clothes she wore were simple, her dress visibly mended in several places—and on her face, which had been full of despair a moment ago, there bloomed now first recognition, then hate.

“You!” She spat the words at him across the room. “It’s you! Have you come to gloat then, you monster? It’s your fault that I’m here!”

Valjean flinched, unable to react when all of a sudden, recognition came flooding in. Fantine Thibault, the woman he'd been forced to fire...

“Fifty francs he gave me!” She laughed again in despair, pointing at him while the room erupted in excited whispers. “Fifty francs, when I have a young child that depends on me! Four years old, your honor; what is she to do without me? If she were older, she could work for her living—but at that age, they can’t yet care for themselves. Fifty francs, and he told me to go look for other work, when everyone knows there’s no other work to be had! I sewed shirts for nine sous a day. Even when one doesn’t eat, how is one supposed to support a child like that? And then she was sick, and the innkeepers kept sending for more money—I always meant back to pay what I borrowed. You see, I sold all my linen, all my clothes, I moved to the cheapest room beneath the roof—but nine sous a day, and the child near death, and the doctor wanting a hundred francs? I will pay it back, I swear it, but you must send for her—”

“Enough of that.” The judge’s hammer came down with a brutal finality. It rang in Valjean’s ear, even as a gendarme appeared.

“Take her away. A year of indentured servitude to the town of Montreuil—represented by Monsieur Madeleine here. I hereby place you, Fantine Thibault, into the custody of Inspector Javert, who will arrange all further proceedings.”

“But what is to become of my daughter—please,” Fantine said desperately, “I’ll work for the mayor, I’ll do whatever he asks, I’ll work for two years, five—if only my daughter will be cared for!”

Valjean didn’t realize that he’d stood until the room suddenly went quiet.

“There’s been a mistake,” he heard himself say. “I made a mistake. I’ll pay whatever her debts are—”

“It’s too late for that.” Javert spoke evenly, but even so there was a look of satisfaction in his eyes. “The contract was signed before you entered, Monsieur le Maire. For her debts, she is now a servant of the city of Montreuil—represented by myself.”

“And myself,” Valjean said, the throb of the burn increasing until it was nearly unbearable.

“Of course, Monsieur le Maire,” the judge now said impatiently, “but as the inspector rightfully pointed out, the case is closed, and there is nothing more to be done. She is in your custody now; I’m certain you’ll find a use for someone like her.”

There was barely veiled laughter in response, leaving no doubt at all to what both judge and audience assumed would come to pass. Valjean struggled to breathe as the brand throbbed.

Javert nodded to an agent of police who had stood in readiness. “Take her away.”

Again Valjean hesitated. If he were to do what he’d planned to do, he would plunge this woman into despair. As the mayor of Montreuil, perhaps he could find a way to repay her debts himself—and there was a child.

He remembered now that Fantine had talked of the child. Fantine had wept and begged, and he—he’d been so lost in fear for himself, and himself only, that he’d ignored her. What was it he’d been so afraid of back then? That to be seen harboring dishonest women under the roof of his factory would reveal his own falseness, with Javert’s suspicious eyes already constantly upon him?

The brand ached so fiercely that his eyes stung again. He struggled to breathe. What was he supposed to do? What path was he supposed to take? To save her would mean to condemn another. To save Champmathieu would mean to condemn her and her child...

She spit into his face when she was led past him, and the courtroom erupted into cries of shock.

“That’s enough!” Javert said sharply. “Shackle her for that. We’ll deal with her once we’re back.”

“No,” Valjean said. “Let her be.”

Javert gave him a derisive smile. “Monsieur le Maire, this was an insult of the honor of your office—”

“An insult of myself,” Valjean said just as sharply. “And I tell you, let her be. It was my honor that was attacked, and mine alone. I will not see her punished for it.”

Javert leaned back on the bench. “As you say...” he murmured with another smile, as if he was not surprised at all that Valjean would side with a woman who'd been forced to sign her own life away.

Javert gestured at his agent. Fantine was led out of the room, her face full of a furious despair that cut Valjean to the core. Then the judge’s hammer came down once more, the room still filled with the excited noise of the crowd that had come to watch the spectacle.

“Our next case,” the judge began. “Bring in the prisoner Champmathieu.”

His heart racing in his chest, Valjean sat down as well. He struggled to breathe. His shirt was clammy with sweat, sticking to his skin. The burn was still aching relentlessly. What was he to do?

Valjean watched quietly as the trial began to play out. The man Champmathieu was clearly confused—and why wouldn’t he be? The claims against him were clearly false. Valjean himself was the living proof of it.

Then three witnesses were lead into the room. They were chained, clad in the distinctive red of the prison hulks.

A shudder went through Valjean as he looked at them. For a moment, the sounds of the courtroom fell away. He could hear the sound of the waves, taste the dust of the quarry, smell the stink of a hundred men chained to the same planks there in the belly of the ship. At times, in his factory in Montreuil, the remembered horror of those years had been so incomprehensible that he’d been half convinced that it must have been a nightmare. Now, with Cochepaille, Chenildieu and Brevet right in front of him, it felt as if a storm had blown the salty air of Toulon straight into this place that had become his home, and it seemed as if those five years of comfort and respectability had been the dream.

Was it not unreal that a man like him should wear the mayoral sash, should command workers—should even command Javert, who had seen him in his shame, trembling and chained?

Valjean closed his eyes against the cacophony of noise inside his head. He clenched his burned hand until the pain flared, a brilliant white that cut through the agony in his mind. Even the face of Fantine fell away, and there was at long last only the cries of a young boy.

“Enough! Enough, I say!” The pain flared again as he jumped forward from his seat and slammed his hand down upon a book.

The crowd gasped in shock, then they reluctantly quieted. Breathing heavily, Valjean allowed his gaze to return to Javert, who was watching him with a small, satisfied smile.

Valjean exhaled. Let Javert have what he wanted. Even Javert’s satisfaction would not hurt as much as the agony that awaited him, should he allow this innocent man to be sentenced to hell in his place.

“I am Jean Valjean.”

He had not spoken that name in five years. After all this time, after all the shame, he had not thought that it would be a relief to say it—and yet, for a brief, blessed moment, it felt as if a heavy weight had been lifted from his shoulders.

He cold hear himself speak as if from a distance as he addressed the three convicts—three men who had suffered just as he had, who still wore the chains and the red coat of their shame, and who had nevertheless agreed to condemn an innocent and drag him down into their own hell.

Instead, it would be Valjean who would be chained by their side once more, soon enough. Despite the terror that clenched around his heart even now, Valjean found that he did not truly fear that fate. To live with that lie, to live with the burden of his sin squeezing the breath out of him day and night, for all eternity... would that not have been worse?

“Here are the forty sous I stole from the child Petit-Gervais.”

There was a relief in setting the coin down on the table as well. It gleamed in the light of the many lamps that lit the room, his shame exposed for everyone to see. Nevertheless, to admit his sin, to no longer carry it as a dreadful secret within his heart, had made it easier to breathe freely.

“Will you surrender yourself to the custody of Inspector Javert?” the judge demanded while the whispers all around him rose up once more.

Valjean could hear Javert come forward, every step an echoing portent of what was to come. Valjean did not turn around. He knew, after all, what would be on Javert’s face.

Instead, Valjean gave the judge a slow nod. He could already feel the chains that would click in place soon enough; even so, there was nothing but relief in his heart. “Willingly.”

“No,” Javert said.

Shocked, Valjean found himself turning after all. Javert was watching him intently, his brows drawn together. Even the smile had disappeared from his lips.

“I don’t want him sent to the prison hulks. He’s tried to escape four times, your honor. He needs a more personal supervision. And his crimes were against the honor and integrity of Montreuil itself, against every honest citizen of our town. His punishment, I’m sure you’ll agree, should match his crime. Indentured servitude, here in Montreuil, for life.”

“Monsieur Javert,” the judge began, “I can see the sense in your words, but there is no legal precedent—I cannot just condemn the man to such a thing, much as I might want to. The law is explicit. He must sign himself over, as that young woman just did—”

“I’ll do it.” The words broke free before Valjean had even had time to think about it. “Until the end of my life. Until Inspector Javert believes that I have paid enough. Under one condition.”

“You are hardly in the position to make demands, M. Madeleine,” the judge said sternly.

“No. Let him speak.” Javert was smiling once more, although his eyes were cold when Valjean turned to face him. “What are you planning, Valjean?”

“I’ll sign myself over, just as you want. Indenture to the town—I’ll be under your command, as you know.” It was a horrible custom, or so Valjean had always thought—and yet the town had been prosperous enough, there had been work enough in his factory, that the barracks by the station-house for indentured servants had stood empty for most of his years in Montreuil.

He’d thought that he’d saved his people from such a fate—until the case of that young woman, Fantine, when he’d allowed his own guilt to close his eyes and his heart to her situation.

But perhaps all was not lost. Perhaps, even now, there was a way to spare her further suffering—or at least her child.

“Why would you do that?” Javert demanded. “If you think you’ll be treated gently here, you’re mistaken.”

“I know.” Valjean smiled sadly. “I know that I cannot expect kindness from you, Inspector. But you heard Fantine. She has a daughter. I will sign myself over to your custody if the daughter is cared for. Send a monthly allowance to the innkeepers, just as she did, and I’ll sign the contract right now.”

“That is highly irregular—” the judge began.

“Done.” Javert’s smiled widened.

Something inside Valjean’s chest clenched with terror as he looked at Javert, the fate that awaited him looking back at him from Javert’s dark eyes. He knew what was in wait: the exposition, the hundred humiliations that would follow, the unbearable shame of chains and toil not in the quarry, where he was one of many, but right here, where people had spoken his name with respect and admiration.

Valjean drew in a shuddering breath. “Thank you,” he said calmly.

It felt as if everything was happening to a different person—nevertheless, when Javert’s hand shot out, his fingers clenching around Valjean’s wrist, Valjean thought that he could feel the frightened beating of his own pulse against Javert’s thumb.

“Don’t thank me,” Javert murmured. He drew in a deep breath as he stared at Valjean, who could only helplessly watch, his hand remaining in Javert’s grasp. “I’ll make sure you’ll never, ever forget your degradation again.”

Valjean swallowed, then bent his head. “I would expect nothing else. And the child?”

“I’ll honor our arrangement. As long as you’re aware that your labor will make up for the cost to the city’s coffers.”

“That is fair,” Valjean said hollowly.

A moment later, Javert released his wrist and stepped aside. Even as he called out for the cuffs, Valjean could feel his gaze on him. It was heavier than the iron of the shackles that now closed around his wrists—heavier than the weight of his sin.

For one terrifying moment, it seemed impossible to bear the intensity of what was burning in Javert’s eyes for day after day, until the end of his life.

In the prison hulks, there had always been the thought of escape. They had caught him every time, of course—but still, Valjean had been able to dream. He’d been able to saw away at a chain day after day, a fragile lifeline that kept him connected to the blue sky that stretched beyond the despair of his prison.

This time, he would be a willing prisoner. This time, he’d made a deal. There would be no escape for him. No dreams of blue skies stretching above him. Not for as long as the fate of a young child depended on him.

Valjean shuddered when Javert grasped hold of the iron connecting his wrists.

“Come along,” Javert said, another smile playing on his lips. “Let’s see what your fine town will say now.”

Valjean followed without protest, for what other choice was there? Whatever would come to pass could be borne, as he had borne everything else. And now, when everything had fallen away but the taste of iron on his tongue and the weight of Javert’s gaze, even the burn had ceased to ache so fiercely. Perhaps, at long last, the shame that was to come would also silence the cries of the young boy in his dreams.

The carriage shook as they traveled back towards Montreuil. A second carriage followed behind them. Inside were two men and another woman, twice the age of the woman who’d beguiled Valjean, criminals who’d all chosen to follow the example set by the former mayor and sign themselves over into indenture rather than go to prison.

For the first time since Javert had arrived in Montreuil, the barracks next to the station-house would see use. The thought made him smile. On more than one occasion, Valjean in his guise as the mayor had lectured him about the lack of crime in Montreuil, which had followed, he’d claimed, from the fact that with enough work and food, no one was forced to such desperate measures.

A lie, of course. Javert had known. And now the entire town would know.

Despite the cuffs that secured Valjean’s wrists, Javert kept a pistol aimed at him. He’d seen the man’s strength, after all.

“Are you looking forward to our return? I know I am.” He smiled again as he stared at Valjean, taking in the way the man’s entire demeanor had changed.

Where before, Valjean had walked with his head high, showing Javert a blatant disregard, as though he were a magistrate in truth who could dismiss a police spy with the wave of a hand, now Valjean’s head was low, his shoulders bent. His eyes were on the floor of the carriage, not the window.

The carriage shook as they rolled across a rock. Javert kept his gun trained on Valjean even as he held onto the carriage with one hand.

Valjean had reached out with his bound hands as well—but something had made him flinch back as soon as he touched the carriage. Now he sat cradling his hand, his face covered by lanky strands of hair that had escaped the ribbon that tied it back.

“Show me your hand.”

Valjean’s head rose at Javert’s words, but he did not react.

Frustrated, Javert repeated the command, adjusting his grip on his pistol. “Show me your hand, I said.”

Now, reluctantly, Valjean obeyed. His hands rose—still safely shackled. He stretched them towards Javert, who impatiently grabbed hold of them. Then he gave the shackles a sharp tug.

With a gasp of surprise, Valjean was pulled from his seat, landing on his knees before Javert as the carriage continued to sway.

“You’d better learn how to obey promptly in the coming days,” Javert murmured. “You could obey once. You’ll learn it again. Now let’s see what we’ve been hiding.”

It was Valjean’s right hand he had cradled as if he’d hidden something within. A file, perhaps? A small picklock?

Slowly, Javert smoothed his thumb from Valjean’s wrist towards his palm.

“Open your hand.”

Valjean’s head bent. Even so, his fingers uncurled in Javert’s grasp, revealing not a hidden tool, but a wound. A circle of red, blistered flesh marred the lines of his palm, and when Javert’s exploring thumb came too close, he could see Valjean’s fingers trembling, his wrist jerking instinctively in his grasp.

“What’s this?” Javert tightened his grip on Valjean’s wrist, who did not resist, although his hand kept shaking when Javert’s thumb slowly circled his palm. “What have you done?”

Valjean didn’t answer. Javert gave him a moment, but when no explanation was forthcoming, he grabbed Valjean’s hair with his other hand to force his head up.

“You’ll answer when I speak to you. Do you understand?”

Valjean swallowed, nodding painfully as much as Javert’s grip on him would allow.

“Yes, sir,” he said. His eyes were gleaming, and when Javert’s thumb drew close to the wound again, he closed his eyes, a tear falling at last.

“I’ll ask again. What is this? Looks like a burn…”

“I burned myself.” Valjean’s eyes were still closed. Given the trembling of his hand in Javert’s grasp and the rawness of the skin, the burn had to be very painful.

Javert had seen burns before. It was hard not to, in the prison hulks.

“This will leave a scar. What happened?”

Shakily, Valjean met his eyes once more. “I was burning my old knapsack. The coin fell out. I picked it up.”

“Did you. And then you—what. Held onto it?” Javert laugh in disbelief. “That’s not a simple burn, Valjean. That’s as good as a brand.”

Valjean remained silent for a moment. Javert did not release his hand.

“I must have held onto it too long,” Valjean said quietly. “Sir.”

“Really,” Javert said. “And you have not bandaged it? What was your plan—did you think I would not be in Arras? That the judge might be moved to pity—or did you hope that you could plead insanity?”

He released Valjean’s hand, watching as Valjean remained kneeling on the floor of the carriage for a long moment before he returned to his seat.

“You must have thought you could fool them again. But that’s over now. You’re in my custody now. There will be no more of your games. Do you understand me?”

“Yes, sir.”

Valjean’s shoulders were drooping. He was cradling his hand again. Javert watched him for a long moment, until he was satisfied that—at least for now—the man was in no position to attempt an escape. Even so, Javert kept his gun trained on him for the entire ride back to Montreuil.

By the time they arrived, it was late afternoon. The sun had not yet set; the streets were still busy with workers and people returning from the market.

Javert allowed himself a small smile as the carriage began to slow down.

“Shall we see what your fine town has to say to this?”

Valjean did not respond, although Javert could see him hunch his shoulders. Javert tightened his hold on his gun, waiting for one of his agents to open the door.

“The town’s not had indentured workers for a while, isn’t that right?” Javert said. “It’s time to re-establish old customs. Of course, you’re already acquainted with the custom of exposition, aren’t you?”

Now Valjean’s head rose. He remained silent for a moment, until he seemed to remember Javert’s earlier command.

“I am,” he said quietly.

Javert felt his smile widen. “It’s customary to show off the town’s new servants. You, of course, are a special case. I want chains for you. Gerard, see to it. Prepare a post.”

“Yes, sir,” the man said. A moment later, he was gone.

With the help of two of his other officers, Javert watched Valjean leave the carriage. A crowd had gathered around them. Javert could hear their whispers—Madeleine, they repeated, the mayor!

Triumphantly, Javert grabbed hold of the chain that connected Valjean’s wrists, then shoved him forward.

With uneasy murmurs, the crowd parted before them.

“Look at your Monsieur le Maire.” Javert spoke loud enough to make certain that his voice was carrying through the town square. “Your fine Monsieur Madeleine. Or should I say—Jean Valjean? A thief, a criminal, a convict. A liar. But all that’s over now. He has been unmasked and sentenced in Arras.”

“Monsieur le Maire...” One of the workers came forward as if she couldn’t believe Javert’s words, but when she saw the cuffs on Valjean’s wrists, she gasped and hastily stepped backwards.

Valjean flinched. As Javert watched, his gaze dropped to the floor.

“Monsieur 24601 here,” Javert said, voicing the number with deep pleasure, “was never your mayor. Nineteen years in the prison hulks in Toulon. I knew him there. A convict who’s been in the prison hulks, and he thought he could con you. Just think of that. Lifting your hat every day to a convict. Coming to his office to beg for alms from a convict. But all of that’s over now.”

The crowd’s murmuring grew louder. More and more people came, drawn in by the spectacle. Valjean lifted his head to give Javert a quick glance from wide, dark eyes, as if he were hoping that Javert might put an end to it.

Javert answered Valjean’s gaze with a wide smile. He’d make certain that this man drank his degradation down to the last dregs.

In any case, it would take a moment to prepare the post to show him off. They’d need chains. Javert wasn’t stupid. Valjean might have willingly surrendered to his servitude—but that might have been a ploy, and that woman a welcome diversion.

Still, if Valjean thought that it would be easier to escape Javert’s personal supervision than escaping the prison hulks, he’d soon find out that he’d been wrong.

This game had dragged on too long. Javert had watched Valjean make a mockery of his position for too many months. The arrest alone wouldn’t be enough to quench the fury in him.

But he’d see to it that the man got what he deserved. Valjean would learn soon enough that he couldn’t win, not ever.

“Monsieur Madeleine? Is it true—oh, dear God!” Someone else had come pushing through the throng. When the man finally made it into the small circle that had formed around Valjean, Javert saw the distinctive whiskers and loosely knotted cravat of Robert, a successful, well-connected man who had been a staunch admirer of the mayor. A man, or so Javert had heard, who had been trying to convince Valjean of accepting the mayoral sash for a long time.

Monsieur Robert was well-regarded in the town. He owned a fine house that bordered the square they stood on. And his business ventures had no connection to Valjean. Javert had looked into all of these things when he’d first arrived in the town and recognized Valjean.

No, it seemed that all of the town’s magistrates and electors had been taken in by Valjean’s ruse. Valjean had no accomplices in Montreuil. That, at least, was a relief. He’d have no friends here now. He’d find no support. Instead, he’d labor day in, day out to make up for his crimes against the town’s reputation, and all the people who’d once looked up to him would spit on him.

“Ah, Monsieur Robert. You’ll want to keep your distance,” Javert explained, still smiling. “This man’s name is Jean Valjean. He was never Monsieur Madeleine. And he’s a dangerous man.”

Robert ignored him, moving even closer. “Monsieur Madeleine?” he asked again, reaching out for Valjean’s arm.

As Javert watched impatiently, Valjean at last lifted his head. “It’s true, Robert,” he said. “I’m sorry.”

“You’ll want to stay away from him from now on.” Javert strode forward, so that Robert had no choice but to release Valjean. “You’ve been taken in by him, as everyone else was. I hope you’ll all remember his monstrous strength. Remember the cart. Think of what he could do to you!”

Gasps and murmurs followed his words, the crowd making way.

“I don’t believe it,” Robert said. “It can’t be—Tell me how I can help you, Monsieur Madeleine—”

“I’m sorry, Robert.”

Pleased, Javert watched as Valjean lowered his head, his face flushed.

This was how it should be: the man’s sins out in the open at last. Javert laughed softly as he looked at Valjean, surrounded by the people who had adored him just this morning. Now, finally, they were staring with shock and revulsion.

And so it would be until then end of Valjean’s life.

“Sir? It’s ready,” Gerard reported a moment later.

Javert reached out to grab hold of Valjean’s arm, forcefully turning him around until he faced the other side of the market square. There, a small dais stood—the same platform, Javert realized with another smile, that would have seen Valjean wear the mayor’s sash for the first time, two years ago.

Now, the small handful of the town’s new indentured servants were gathered there—and someone had hastily fetched a set of shackles from the station-house, by which Valjean could be chained to a wooden post.

Valjean did not resist when Javert led him towards the platform. Even so, Javert made certain that Gerard remained nearby, keeping a gun trained on Valjean when Javert at last opened his cuffs.

“Let them see who you truly are. Go on. Take off your coat.”

Valjean looked at him for a moment. Javert could see him struggle. For all that Valjean had promised to sign himself over to service willingly, Javert knew there’d be revolt sooner or later. A man like that wouldn’t rest until he’d been shown the limits of Javert’s patience again and again.

Valjean exhaled, then lowered his eyes and stripped out of his greatcoat.

“Go on,” Javert demanded impatiently. Coat and waistcoat followed, until at last, Valjean stood before them in the marketplace in his shirtsleeves.

Javert’s smile widened. “Pull off your shirt.”

Again there was a moment of hesitation. Valjean’s eyes reluctantly rose to his face, as if Valjean was hoping he’d find mercy there.

Javert met his gaze evenly, until a flush appeared on Valjean’s cheeks and he turned his face away, even as his hands went to the hem of his shirt. Javert watched as Valjean’s fingers tightened. Again the man hesitated. Then he inhaled, and slowly did as commanded.

The crowd that had gathered around the platform erupted into surprised murmurs and gasps once more. The sight was awe-inspiring—even Javert found himself drawing in his breath in a moment of shock, when at last, after these many months of suspicion, the convict’s impressive physique was revealed at last from beneath the mayor’s clothes.

The late evening sun gleamed on Valjean’s muscles, the broad chest of a man who had spent half his life condemned to hard labor exposed to the eyes of the crowd. Valjean’s own eyes were staring at the ground.

Javert reached out again to grab his arm.

“Now look at your mayor,” he called out. He gave Valjean a hard push, who followed slowly, but obediently, and turned around.

Immediately there was a louder murmur arising, even a shocked cry or two. Valjean’s back was without doubt the back of a convict. White scars ran from his hips to his shoulders, the unmistakable proof of punishments past.

“Look at the man who thought he could fool you! A man who spent nineteen years in the prison hulks, a thief, a dangerous man—and he thought that he could govern honorable citizens?”

Javert looked out at the crowd, pleased by the shocked faces. Now Valjean’s game was truly over. None of these people would ever be fooled by him again.

“Shackle him,” he told Gerard, then stepped towards the four men and women who were huddling by the end of the platform. One of them—the one Valjean had for some reason thought to protect, no doubt enamored of the long, brown locks and pretty face—looked as if she’d spent most of the ride back to Montreuil crying.

“Please, Monsieur Javert,” she said when he took hold of her arm. “What will become of my daughter? If I don’t send money, those in-keepers will turn her out, and at her age—”

“Be silent.” Javert gritted his teeth as he pulled her towards the front of the platform. “She’ll be cared for. It’s been seen to. And I don’t want to hear of you again unless I’m asking you a question.”

To his right, he saw from the corner of his eye Gerard stepping away; when he turned his head, he found Valjean shackled to the post, still shirtless in the afternoon sun, although now his back was against the post.

It didn’t matter. Everyone had seen the evidence. They wouldn’t forget it again.

No, Javert saw when he let his eyes sweep over the crowd, even Robert, who’d been so loyal to all of the mayor’s falsely pious schemes, was staring at him with an expression of quiet shock. At last, Robert, too, turned his back on him and vanished in the crowd, making space for another to take his place and gape at Valjean.

Javert smiled.

“Fantine Thibault,” he then announced. “One year of servitude to Montreuil for her debts.”

“Fantine,” another woman in the garb of a factory worker gasped. “Oh, Fantine...”

Someone else nudged her away. Even so, Fantine hadn’t reacted. When Javert turned back to her, he found that she was still staring at him, tears in her eyes and an expression of shocked disbelief on her face.

“Is it true, Monsieur Javert?” she asked. “My Cosette—she’ll be cared for?”

Javert clenched his teeth. “I’m not in the habit of lying,” he forced out. “Now shut your mouth. Next!”

He impatiently waved the taller of the two men over. One of his agents came forward. “Caillot, sir. Five years of servitude for theft.”

Javert repeated the information, loud enough that it could be heard across the square, although, to his deep satisfaction, most eyes were still resting on Valjean.

Javert paused for a moment before calling over the second man, letting his own eyes linger on where Valjean stood, half-naked and chained, exposed in all his shame to the eyes of the people who had once looked up to him. Even now, Javert could see the insouciance on his face when Javert had first entered his office. To think that Valjean had truly believed that he’d won his game! He must have laughed, that first night when Javert had arrived, thinking himself perfectly safe.

But things had changed. Valjean would soon learn that.

For a moment, their eyes met again, Valjean’s wide and panicked, reminding Javert of a trapped animal. Javert gave Valjean a slow, deliberate smile, watching the way Valjean’s chest rapidly rose and fell, until at last, cowed, Valjean averted his eyes once more.

He’d learn. No matter what it would take, this was a lesson Javert would make sure to teach him.

This was not the first time Valjean had found himself tied to a pole, exposed to the eyes of a crowd who had gathered to gape at him and whisper in hushed voices about the crimes he had committed. It was true that Javert had forced him to strip down to his trousers, baring the lashmarks that marred his back—yet even so, there had been a shame worse than this, back when they’d first chained him and forced him to march to Toulon.

Of course, back then, it hadn’t been the eyes of men who knew him that lingered on his shamed body.

He didn’t dare to lift his eyes to look out at the crowd. It had been bad enough to be forced to face Robert: to tell Robert to his face that it was all true, that Robert had put his trust into a liar and a thief, that Robert had endangered his own good name by campaigning to appoint a convict as their mayor.

If only he’d been strong enough back then to say no to Robert. Valjean hadn’t wanted the honor—despite what Javert might think, he’d never wanted it. But when Robert had kept trying to convince him, it had eventually started to make a certain sense. He’d seen the good that could be done in such a position by a man who truly cared about the weakest and poorest citizens of this town.

Of course, it had been all for nothing. There would be another mayor soon enough, and nothing of what Valjean had hoped to achieve would last. Worse—he would remain here, laboring beneath Javert’s watchful eye, with former acquaintances pointing at him and whispering.

But it could be borne. Even this could be borne.

The burn still ached relentlessly, reminding him of the fact that Javert was not entirely wrong. Valjean had robbed a child. And worse: he’d forced a woman to sell herself into this misery, to labor by his side as if she were not much better than a convict, parted from her daughter.

He had caused this—he, with his selfishness and fear. If only he’d shown compassion instead of thinking that he needed to set an example...

Something touched the shackles that chained Valjean to the pole. When he started and turned his head, he found himself face to face with Javert once more, who’d doubtlessly come to make certain that the shackles would hold.

The corners of Javert’s mouth rose as he stared at him. Valjean suddenly found that his mouth was dry. Javert stood so close that he could feel the brush of Javert’s greatcoat against his bare chest.

“Didn’t I tell you?” Javert murmured, sounding pleased. “The next time, it would be for life. And I was right, wasn’t I?”

Valjean struggled to draw in a breath. “Yes, sir,” he finally managed in reply, lowering his eyes.

Javert made an amused sound. “That’s a long time to make sure that you’ll learn your lesson.”

Valjean’s hair fell into his face, damp with sweat and dirty with the dust of the road. He was grateful for the way it shielded him from Javert’s eyes—although he did not doubt that in time, Javert would take that flimsy protection away as well.

With another chuckle, Javert went away.

Valjean swallowed. They had chained his wrists behind the pole. He knew that there was no way he could make an escape—and moreover, he’d surrendered himself willingly to this punishment. The welfare of a child depended on him now; he could not have fled, even if the cuffs had opened by some miracle.

Even so, he could not help the old reflexes that made him test the strength of the cuffs out of sheer instinct, the way a dog will test the length of its leash.

The cuffs did not yield, and with a tremulous breath, Valjean surrendered to his fate, his face burning as he imagined the men and women who had come to stare at him. Was the woman who had cooked for him in the crowd? Was the man there who had sold him the Spanish palomino? Was Madame Victurnien watching; were his workers gathering as the news spread?

His face continued to heat as he imagined the way his factory would empty once the first rumors were carried there. Had they come already? Had all the men and women who had once trusted him to provide for them come to stare and point at him, knowing that he had lied to them all—knowing that he had betrayed them?

It took an hour until Javert finally returned to unchain him. By that time, Valjean was exhausted. His head hung so low that all he could see beyond the lanky strands that shielded his face from view was the stone beneath his feet. He had not looked up even when he had heard familiar voices—two of the factory workers, who had exclaimed in shock and disbelief, and then the voice of Madame Victurnien, coldly condemning him.

“That’s enough,” Javert said sharply. “Gilbert, take them to the barracks.”

“And the mayor? Pardon, sir—Jean Valjean?”

Javert was silent for a moment. When Valjean raised his eyes at last, he saw that Javert stood in front of him once more, silently studying him.

A corner of Javert’s mouth rose. “I’ll take care of that myself.”

The crowd had not entirely dispersed, Valjean saw when Javert at last opened the shackles that had held his wrists tied behind the pole. He was allowed enough time to hastily pull on his shirt and coat once more, Javert keeping a firm hold on his gun all the while. Then Javert closed the handcuffs around his wrists again, and Valjean found himself led through the murmuring crowd towards the station-house.

The house was situated in one of the streets that ran from the square towards the ramparts that surrounded the town. Next to the house, a low building with dirty curtains stood. The sun had begun to set, and as Javert marched him closer, he could see a light spring up behind the narrow, grimy windows.

Valjean had been inside that building only once or twice; there had been no need for men or women to sell themselves to the town while his factory offered work to anyone willing to take it. Within, Valjean knew he would find two rooms with narrow beds, straw mattresses on planks of wood, a small kitchen.

And yet it was not these barracks Javert led him towards.

Javert nudged him towards the station-house with his cudgel. As the chief of police, Javert had a right to the apartment that was situated atop the house, facing towards the back. Beneath were the rooms where Javert had presided in the months since he had come to Montreuil, giving orders to his agents, writing reports on arrests, and biding his time until at last Valjean gave himself away.

Valjean drew in a deep breath when Javert led him inside. The station-house was empty—Javert’s agents had been busy, of course, witnessing his shame in the market square, and would now oversee the other men and women settling into the barracks.

Perhaps he should have been afraid of the reason why Javert had led him here all alone—yet what else could happen now? The worst had already come to pass. And he was used to hard labor, his skin used to whips and chains. If Javert wanted to gloat at his shame now, let him; even that could be borne.

“Hurry up.” Javert’s cudgel nudged his side once more.

Javert handled the stick almost gently—he had not beaten him, not once so far. Was that because Javert preferred the pleasure of making him flinch with his words, or was he saving that experience to savor it later?

Javert led him into the small room that preceded the two cells constituting the jail of Montreuil-sur-Mer. The cells were empty, as was the room.

For a moment, Valjean wondered whether he was to spend the night in the cells. He would not mind—in truth, he would have preferred a night alone, although he had no doubt that by the time morning arrived, Javert’s agents would return to gawk at him.

“Give me your hand.”

At the command, Valjean approached hesitantly and held out his hands. Would Javert truly unchain him?

Instead of reaching for a key, Javert grabbed hold of his burned hand.

Again Javert’s thumb slid from his wrist towards his palm. Valjean watched his own fingers tremble. Then, with effort, he relaxed them, revealing the burn to Javert’s gaze once more.

Javert eyed his hand for a moment, then turned away, leaving Valjean standing uncertainly by the single desk that graced the small room. When he returned, he was carrying a bowl and a pitcher of water. Without saying a word, he grabbed Valjean’s hand again. A moment later, he dipped a cloth into the water, then began to wash Valjean’s hand.

Javert was careful, his touch light. Even so, a small groan of pain escaped Valjean before he pressed his lips together, concentrating on keeping his hand open in Javert’s grasp. During the preceding hour of humiliation, he’d almost forgotten about the wound; the dull, ever-present pain had been banished to the background of his mind as he stood before the crowd of onlookers, sick to his stomach with shame.

Now that he was alone with Javert once more, nothing left but the fear of what was to come, the throb in his hand sent pulses of agony through his entire body every time Javert touched the wound.

“Yes, that’s going to leave a mark.” Javert laughed softly. “Always thought it was a shame convicts like you missed out on your brands. But this’ll do just as well, won’t it? You won’t fool anyone in the future. Not with this on your skin.”

Javert was wrong—surely it could be explained away, Valjean thought. Anyway, it would be near invisible in his palm. And he could wear gloves.

“Men like you always end up with their crimes branded right on their skin.”

Javert exhaled again in amusement when Valjean finally met his eyes. For a good, long moment, Javert stared at him, so that Valjean began to fear that he’d given something of his thoughts away.

But then, it was too early to make plans. He’d made a deal—a deal he had to keep, for Fantine’s sake. Once a year had passed, things would be different. He’d know just where and how to escape Javert’s attention. And Javert in time might finally believe that Valjean was safely subdued. There’d be a chance to run; there always was.

Until then, he’d be Javert’s, and he’d bear his gloating the way he’d borne it before.

“No more lectures about the nature of wicked men now?” Javert reached into a drawer, still holding Valjean’s gaze. “That’s right. Silence suits you better.”

Another groan escaped Valjean’s throat when Javert began to smooth a salve all over the burn with surprising gentleness. Even the light touch was agony, although a few moments later, Valjean exhaled in relief when the pain dulled somewhat.

“You planned that well, didn’t you?” With an annoyed sound, Javert began to wind a clean strip of linen around his hand, still more careful with the wound than Valjean had expected. “You won’t be holding a shovel for a week now. Well, a task will be found for you. I’ve no doubt that you’ll be good for something.”

Valjean swallowed against the bitterness on his tongue when Javert released his hand. “Anything you say, sir.” Carefully, he kept his gaze lowered, staring at the buttons of Javert’s coat.

Javert chuckled again. “A welcome change from our last conversation, isn’t it, Monsieur le Maire?”

Despite his words, he then reached out and unlocked the cuffs. Relieved, Valjean took a step backwards, and then another, eager to put some distance between them. His hand was still throbbing lightly, although the pain had dulled. Javert, meanwhile, had turned to put the salve and bandages away, although he had kept his gun close.

Valjean stared at the bandage of clean linen, which Javert had carefully tied in place. He hadn’t expected that kindness—although he doubted that he’d receive more kindnesses from Javert’s hands in the coming year.

Javert was watching him once more, he realized a moment later when he looked up. There was a small smile on Javert’s face as he leaned against the desk.

“Strip.”

Valjean’s head came up sharply, but Javert didn’t repeat the command. Instead, he kept watching, the cudgel resting lightly in his hand.

Valjean exhaled. Then he began to undress.

“Not so talkative now, are you?”

Javert chuckled to himself as Valjean pulled off his shirt. Valjean kept his eyes on the floor.

“Go on. You know how this works.” Valjean didn’t even have to look at Javert to know that he was still smiling. Valjean could hear the satisfaction in his voices. “I know how this works, too. I know the things someone like you hides on his body. Better pray I don’t find anything on you tonight…”

Valjean, who’d already reached out for the buttons of his trousers in silent surrender, froze for a moment as his heart contracted painfully. He could feel his pulse in his throat, hard and panicked, when he forced himself to continue.

Javert was right. He knew what was to come. None of this was new to him.

And yet, to have it happen here, now—in this town where his name had made people smile, where he had been welcome wherever he went, where he had done his best to cure so many ills...

“Hurry up, convict,” Javert said a moment later, almost genially. 

Valjean shuddered at the reminder of how much Javert had to be enjoying this. He thought of their many encounters in Montreuil, of Javert’s searching questions, of the times he had sent Javert away with a polite smile. Had he ever made use of his power over Javert? Had he humiliated a man who’d had him in his own power for so many years?

Valjean knew that there was a heavy guilt weighing on his shoulders, but he wasn’t guilty of that sin. He didn’t think so. Not more so than could be expected, at least—not more than he’d had to, when faced with a chief of police like Javert.

Valjean remained silent as he pushed down his trousers and stepped out of them.

Javert exhaled, then pushed himself off the desk. He grabbed hold of Valjean’s face, forcing Valjean to meet his eyes as Javert’s fingers clenched around his chin.

“Open your mouth.”

Valjean felt his face heat as he reluctantly complied. A moment later, Javert’s fingers were in his mouth, searching him roughly and thoroughly.

The sound of his own breathing sounded unnaturally loud in Valjean’s ears. He fixed his eyes on a point above Javert’s head as he forced himself to hold still while Javert’s fingers slid along his teeth, searching beneath his tongue, exploring all the hidden places where one might hold a small file.

Then Javert released him, only to continue his search with the same efficiency. Javert’s hands slid all over Valjean’s body, exploring his armpits, his navel, lifting his soft genitals, even drawing back the foreskin with careful fingers as Valjean listened to the thunder of his heart beating against his ribcage, unable to move even if he’d wanted to.

Was it really only this morning that he’d woken and risen as the mayor? Was it only a handful of hours ago that he’d washed and dressed in the solitude of his own house, knowing his doors safely locked against any intruder, owner of a sanctuary he’d built with his own hands?

A moment later, Javert’s hands finally released him.

“Hands against the wall,” Javert commanded. “And hold still, or you’ll regret it.”

Valjean complied. A long moment passed during which he concentrated on the racing of his heart. He heard the sound of water. Then there was the sound of Javert stepping closer.

“Hold yourself open.”

Valjean froze, his heart shuddering in his breast as his entire body seemed to freeze, shame curling in his stomach until he could taste the bitterness on his tongue.

He forced himself to draw in a slow breath. Then he reached back and grasped hold of his buttocks, squeezing his eyes closed as he spread himself open for Javert.

Every beat of Valjean’s heart was as loud as a drum. His head leaned against the unyielding wall as he waited, breathing shallowly.

And then Javert’s fingers slid along his crease, a short, cursory search before they found his hole and slid inside.

Valjean panted against the wall at the stretch. Even wet with soap, the sudden violation made his eyes sting. Years had passed since he’d last been forced to undergo such humiliation—but now, with Javert’s fingers invading him, it felt as if no time at all had passed, as if he’d never left the prison hulks, never shed the heavy chains.

Javert made a thoughtful sound. Valjean shuddered, instinctively contracting around his fingers when he felt Javert’s warm breath against his bare shoulder.

“Good,” Javert said a moment later, pulling out of him.

Valjean’s heart kept racing as he stared at the wall, listening to the sound of Javert washing his hands.

“By all rights you should sleep on wooden planks, and in heavy chains.” Javert chuckled softly. “No doubt you think that the barracks are preferable to the hulks, and you wouldn’t be wrong. But you forget that I’m used to men like you. I’ve watched men like you all my life. And if you think that you can trick me, you’ll soon learn different.”

Valjean swallowed thickly, his mouth still dry. “Yes, sir.”

A moment later, something soft was thrown at him. “Hurry up. Dress.”

When Valjean turned around, his shirt and his trousers were resting at his naked feet. Hurriedly, he slipped them back on while Javert looked through his coat before finally setting it away. Then Javert took hold of his cravat, thoughtfully winding the simple, white cotton around his hand as he looked Valjean up and down. One corner of his mouth turned up.

“No need of a cravat from now on, I think. Not for a man like you. There’s nothing respectable about you.”

Silently, Valjean watched as the cravat was set aside as well. A moment later, Javert threw his stockings and boots at him.

“That’ll suffice for today. Hold out your hands.”

The cuffs clicked in place around his wrists once more. Then he was led upstairs, into the apartment at the back of the building where Javert resided.

Uncertainly, Valjean looked around. He’d been here before, once—before the arrival of Javert. It had been the mayor’s duty to ensure that the town’s new chief of police would have a suitable space to live. The apartment had not changed much since Javert had arrived. The shelves near the window were filled with books. A desk was covered in papers. There was a map framed on a wall that showed the department’s roads.

What had Javert brought him here for? Earlier, Valjean had assumed that Javert would make him spend the night in one of the cells, too distrustful to allow him the company of other men in the barracks. Instead, Javert had brought him into his rooms. Why?

Valjean looked up sharply when Javert suddenly stepped closer and grabbed hold of the chain that connected his wrists.

“Tonight, you’re staying where I can keep an eye on you,” Javert murmured.

Through the window behind him, Valjean could see the sky lit in hues of orange and red as the sun began to set. The light glinted on Javert’s cheeks, showing the shadow of stubble that had grown since he’d shaved in the morning, turning his skin a warm shade of russet. Even now, his eyes remained unreadable as he stared at Valjean, who watched him in turn, too shaken to avert his eyes.

“Yes, you understand that, don’t you?” Javert laughed softly, keeping a firm grip on the chain. “This isn’t the life you used to have. And this isn’t Toulon either. I’m the one in charge here. In charge of you. You better learn it quick.”

Then Javert released the cuffs. “Now take my coat. Hang it by the door. Be quick about it,” he snapped, so that Valjean flinched back in sudden shock before he realized what it was Javert wanted from him.

Hesitantly, he stepped behind Javert. A moment later, he found himself carrying Javert’s coat towards the door, where he hung it. When he turned back around to face Javert, he found him watching, his face still as unreadable despite the smile on his lips.

Behind Javert, a door stood halfway open.

Valjean’s stomach twisted when he remembered what was to be found behind it. A bedchamber. A sturdy bed he himself had paid for.

Javert exhaled in amusement. Valjean couldn’t say whether it was the pleasure of seeing him fulfill such a mundane task, or because Javert knew where his eyes had strayed.

Then Javert nodded towards the door.

Javert’s bedroom was generously sized. The apartment above the station-house itself was much larger and in a much better state of repair than the rooms he was accustomed to.

Montreuil-sur-Mer was a prospering town, or so it had been explained to him upon his arrival. The mayor had seen to it that everyone willing had work, that the streets were in good repair, that the children received schooling, and that the amount of hospital beds had more than doubled.

Now Javert smiled upon entering the bedchamber, which might even have been furnished out of the coffers of the man now trailing behind him.

Javert took a woolen blanket, then dropped it on the floor at the foot of his bed. “I’m keeping an eye on you tonight.”

Valjean’s head rose sharply. His hair was disheveled, his eyes wide and dark. There was still something of the panicked animal in him, and the sight made something heavy and satisfied spread within Javert.

Then a frown appeared between Valjean’s brows. Slowly, he looked from Javert to the blanket and back. He hesitated for a moment, visibly struggling, and Javert found himself taking a step forward in curiosity.

“You want me to sleep there tonight?” Valjean sounded strangely uncertain. “On... on the floor? Sir.”

“What, you think you deserve better?”

Javert moved even closer, carefully observing as Valjean’s eyes widened further. Valjean’s chest was rising and falling rapidly. Dressed in nothing but his shirt and his trousers, he looked strangely vulnerable, despite the breadth of his shoulders and the strength of his arms.

Valjean was afraid of him.

The observation should have brought Javert more pleasure. Instead, something about it felt jarring.

Surely it was only natural that Valjean should feel fear. He was finally back in Javert’s power, who could have him beaten for an insolent word. Still. This wasn’t the wary, sullen look of the prisoner who’d been flogged into reluctant submission. There was something bright and attentive in Valjean’s eyes. Something desperate, even now.

“You’ll sleep wherever I tell you to. On the floor, in the barracks—in a cell if you don’t behave. Understood?”

“Yes.” Again Valjean looked at him, as if he were expecting to be beaten any moment.

Javert huffed a sound of amusement. He didn’t doubt that it would come to that sooner rather than later. Now that Valjean had tasted freedom and gained power over good people, surely it would take the bite of the whip to drive the insolence out of him.

But not today. It had been a long, exhausting day, despite Javert’s triumph. And tomorrow would bring more work, now that the town was without a mayor, and Javert would have to go through Valjean’s possessions to see if he could find proof of further crimes.

Javert stepped closer. Valjean shuddered like a spooked horse, his wide eyes still on Javert, but he didn’t try to retreat.

“Hands,” Javert said.

Again a heartbeat of hesitation. Then Valjean held out his hands, and Javert used his key to unlock one cuff.

“On your knees.”

Valjean shivered. Javert almost thought he might disobey—but after a moment, Valjean slowly slid to his knees, his head tilted upward to watch him warily.

Something twisted inside Javert again, a heat rising up, filling all of his limbs with a sudden urgency. There was a satisfaction in seeing Valjean obey—and then, why shouldn’t there be? Valjean was a convict, a criminal. Wasn’t his natural place on his knees before authority? And wasn’t it Javert’s duty to ensure that this man learned to show authority the proper respect?

For a moment, Javert allowed himself to linger on the pleasing sight. Finally, everything was as it should be: Valjean his knees, his head bowed.

Javert licked his lips as he stared down at Valjean. There was something as potent as brandy to the sight of the man’s degradation. Even now, if Javert wanted, he could reach out and bury his hand in Valjean’s hair, tug hard and force those eyes to look up at him. He could beat him for the many months of insolence he’d been forced to bear. He could have him in chains day and night, parade him through town every morning, work him until he could barely stand and whip him when he failed—and even then it wouldn’t be enough to quench the fire that sprung up inside him whenever Valjean’s eyes dared to meet his.

And there was more Javert could do. The mere thought left him lightheaded with the awareness of his own position and the privileges it brought. He could have Valjean here in his home every night, to serve him as was custom. He could watch as Valjean took his coat, as Valjean cleaned his boots, as Valjean ladled his soup. As the chief of police of Montreuil, he had a right to the service of any of the town’s servants.

And not only that.

Javert hadn’t failed to hear the way his agents had softly snickered behind his back at the sight of Fantine. No doubt half the town had been certain that he’d choose the young woman to serve his meal, clean his apartment, and warm his bed tonight. Any other man in his position would have chosen her.

Javert wasn’t a fool; he could see that she was beautiful. Although he wasn’t swayed by the sight of a pretty face, unlike many of the men he’d worked with, the thought made a certain sense—in the same way that the fine horse, the apartment and the clean, warm clothes he wore made sense, for all these things were a mark of the position he now held.

Fantine Thibault was beautiful enough that any other chief of police would have chosen her to remain in his rooms tonight. Still, Fantine was harmless. He’d seen a hundred women like her. She might cry and beg week after week, used to getting her way thanks to her pretty face, but that was the most she’d do.

Jean Valjean, on the other hand—a convict, a recidivist, a man who’d spent nineteen long years in the prison hulks only to immediately commit another crime once he was free...

Javert drew in a deep breath of pleasure as he stared down at Valjean at his feet.

No, it was Jean Valjean he needed to keep an eye on. Jean Valjean who needed to be taught obedience.

And Javert would teach him that lesson—any way it took.

The image that sprung to mind with startling rapidity and clearness was not entirely distasteful either. Javert had seen these men in the prison hulks. He knew well enough what they got up to with each other.

And so, it seemed, did Jean Valjean, whose skittishness now began to make a certain kind of sense.

For a moment, Javert allowed himself the thought of his hand buried in Valjean’s hair, his prick buried in Valjean’s mouth. Valjean would be obedient then—Javert would make certain of that.

The image fanned the heat within him, and he realized belatedly that the thought had been enough to make him harden.

The fantasy left him breathless: a subdued Valjean who’d press his mouth to his prick, kissing him through his trousers before obediently undressing him, then taking him into his mouth. It was a sensation he’d known only once, when he’d been new to his job in the prison hulks. Eager to claim his place among the guards and their companionship, he’d accepted their invitation to a cheap inn that also served as a whorehouse.

Twice he’d accompanied his new friends before he’d grown too disgusted by their drunkenness, their slovenly dress, the degradation all around him—all the filth of the background he wanted to wash off.

He hadn’t been back. Not even when ten years later, he’d been adjutant-guard and could have afforded a woman in a clean dress who didn’t smell like brandy and the sweat of ten guards. There’d been no need for it that he could see. He’d had his eyes on other things. Better things.

And now, here he was. Javert, chief of police of Montreuil-sur-Mer. And if he forced Jean Valjean to suck his cock, it wouldn’t be at all like the desperate things convicts did. In this town, in this station-house, in this apartment, it was Javert who embodied Authority—and there was, after all, nothing more natural than that a convict should kneel before it.

Before him, he now saw that Valjean had raised his face. Had he perhaps caught a glimpse of what went through Javert’s head? Had he caught sight of his arousal?

Javert held his gaze for a long moment, for no other reason than that he could, savoring the way all the months of impertinent arrogance had given way to the core of truth that was at the heart of every man like Jean Valjean: fear.

Javert moistened his lips, cherishing the moment for another heartbeat before he turned around.

The thought of closing his hand around Valjean’s neck and shoving Valjean’s face into his own degradation was tempting—but it had been a long day. Tomorrow would bring even more work.

And whether he wanted Valjean to suck his cock or not didn’t matter one bit. What mattered was that he, Javert, was the chief of police of Montreuil, and that he could, whenever he pleased. Let Valjean contemplate that new truth tonight.

***

When Javert woke in the morning he found to his great satisfaction Jean Valjean still curled up at the foot of his bed, handcuffed to a wooden leg. Valjean was awake, clad only in his shirt and trousers, his hair disheveled.

That Javert would have to deal with as well—but perhaps not today. There was a lot of work to be done. And this wasn’t a task Javert was willing to delegate.

When he drew back the curtain from the window, sunlight fell in. It fell onto Jean Valjean, too, who raised his eyes warily to Javert. Again Javert felt satisfaction stirring deep inside his heart, filling his body with a deep, warm pleasure at the thought of what lay ahead today.

His body had stirred, too—he was still half-hard from a dream he couldn’t quite remember, the way it often happened in the morning. His fingers had closed around a wrist, hard enough to leave bruises, and the familiar, salty breeze of the ocean had filled his nose.

Had Valjean’s presence woken old memories of his work in Toulon? It was possible, Javert decided. In any case, he had too much to do today to waste further time.

Javert drew off his nightshirt, then began to wash. Behind him, he could hear the soft clinking of chains, as though Valjean was trying to make as little sound as possible as he shifted into a sitting position. Had he caught a glimpse of Javert’s arousal?

Javert gave his mirror a humorless smile, then began to shave, as meticulous and careful with this task as if he were alone, ignoring the reflection of Jean Valjean in his mirror. Once Javert had finished dressing, he unchained Valjean and allowed him to hastily wash and dress as well. Valjean remained uncommonly silent while Javert enjoyed his breakfast, his gun demonstratively next to him. Then he led Valjean outside, allowing him to join the other men and women in the barracks next door.

Gilbert was already in place, watching with an impatient look as the new arrivals finished their own breakfast of bread and cheese. Javert gave Valjean a nudge with his cudgel, pointing at the remaining hunk of bread and a dry rind of cheese.

“Not what you’re used, is it?”

Gilbert gave an appreciative chuckle at his words, and Javert found himself smiling as he watched Valjean quietly eat his breakfast. The woman next to him had turned aside, while the others were watching Valjean with open curiosity.

“What happened to his hand, sir?” Gilbert then said. “He giving you any trouble?”

“If he had, rest assured that he wouldn’t be sitting here.” Unimpressed, Javert held Gilbert’s gaze until the man’s smirk died away.

“Pardon, sir, I didn’t mean—”

“He burned himself. Accidentally, or so he claims.” Javert let his gaze roam along the table, watching one after the other avert their eyes, until it finally came to rest on Valjean once more. “Isn’t that so, Valjean?”

Valjean hesitated, then gave a slow nod. “Yes, sir.”

“By all rights we should have you cutting rocks.” Javert paused for a moment. “But I’ll have you earn your keep, don’t worry. You’re coming with me today. Gilbert?”

“There’s work to be done on the street past the northern ramparts for the others,” Gilbert said.

Javert nodded. “Good.” Then he gave Valjean a sharp nod, who hastily stood, the bread still in his hand.

Valjean was wearing the shirt and the coat he’d worn when he’d traveled to Arras, but Javert had kept his cravat. There was something pleasing to the sight of Valjean walking through the streets of Montreuil with his throat bared and his hands in iron. Still, sooner or later, he’d need new clothes. Javert had little interest in spending more money than absolutely necessary on this man. Fortunately, today’s task offered a solution to that problem, together with a mountain of additional work Javert hadn’t anticipated.

Several hours later, Javert had the beginnings of an inventory of M. Madeleine’s possessions, written in Valjean’s own hand, and at least a rudimentary overview over the papers and ledgers that filled the former mayor’s office. So far, the factory’s dealings seemed in order; he’d gone through Valjean’s private correspondence with a great deal of pleasure while Valjean watched, tight-lipped and pale, and yet had found nothing but donations to the church and letters begging for money. It had been a great disappointment to Javert, who’d hoped to see Valjean writhe as Javert read out letter after letter detailing his correspondence with other convicts.

Still, Javert had his triumph in other ways—for when he entered Valjean’s bedroom, Valjean trailing hesitantly behind, Javert’s gaze was immediately captured by two impressive candlesticks of silver.

“What have we here?” Javert murmured.

He took a step closer to examine the candlesticks. When he reached out to take hold of one, he heard behind him a muffled sound. On turning around, he found Valjean frozen in an expression of dismay, his lips parted and his eyes dark and desperate. He’d raised his hands, as if he’d been about to reach out in despair to plead with Javert, but then had thought better of such a thing.

Javert’s lips rose again at the sight. There was no doubt: these had to be the candlesticks assumed to be stolen from the Bishop of Digne five years ago. Why else would Valjean show such distress?

“Something the matter, Valjean?” Javert raised a brow, still smiling as he watched Valjean.

After a moment, Valjean exhaled. “What will you do with them?”

“You know very what will happen to them. They are stolen—stolen by you, in Digne. They’re evidence.”

Valjean didn’t move, his eyes fixed on Javert. “They were gifts.”

“A likely tale.”

“You will not sell them then?”

“What do you care?” Javert laughed. “In the eyes of society, you’re dead. They were never yours in the first place, in any case.”

Valjean drew in a trembling breath, his eyes still on the silver. “I paid for them. I am paying for them still.”

“You think I’m going to believe your nonsense? They’ll remain in my care until all questions are resolved.”

Holding on to the candlesticks, Javert moved closer. Valjean didn’t back away. Instead, he met Javert’s eyes evenly, although new lines had formed around his mouth, his eyes dark with despair.

“And if your inquiries shows that they were indeed a gift given to me?”

“Then these will be sold with all the rest,” Javert said with deep pleasure, taking note of the way Valjean shuddered at his words.

Again Valjean’s hands jerked, as if he’d tried to instinctively reach out before the iron around his wrists reminded him of his position.

“Please,” he said hoarsely. “Inspector Javert—I beg you—”

“Ah. That suits you better.” Javert laughed. “But it’s too late for that. There’s nothing you can do or offer—”

Without another word, Valjean fell to his knees. “Don’t sell them. Please. If you must, give them to Sister Simplice—”

“Do you think you can bargain with me?” Even now, when outrage rose up within Javert at the thought that Jean Valjean still thought he was in any position to negotiate, something about the sight of Valjean on his knees before him filled with a deep, shocked delight. “Do you think you are in any position to make deals? You have nothing you can give away. Nothing. You’re mine already. I make all decisions for you. Is that understood?”

Valjean’s chest was rising and falling rapidly. When Javert took half a step closer, burying his fingers in Valjean’s hair to grip his head tightly, he could feel the heat of Valjean’s gasped exhalation even through the cloth of his trousers.

Again Valjean’s hands rose. Was he pleading—or was he reaching for the buttons of Javert’s trousers? Javert couldn’t say. But even now, Javert could fill his body stirring once more, awakened by the parted, gasping mouth before him and the despair in Valjean’s eyes.

For a moment, a resolution appeared to flash in Javert’s eyes. Javert’s arousal was impossible to miss, and while Valjean had kept himself apart in the prison hulks as much as was possible, he knew very well what one man might use another for. In Toulon Valjean had been too strong and too feared for any of the other wretches chained beside him to try and make use of him. But here, now, in Javert’s power—after he’d surrendered himself willingly to Javert in exchange for Fantine’s child...

The sight of the dark wool stretching over Javert’s swollen prick made something inside Valjean tighten until he felt unable to catch a breath, his heart hammering in his chest. Even so, he knew he would do it. He had no choice, in any case. Javert could take whatever he wanted, whenever he wanted.

It wasn’t about the worth of silver; it had never been. But the candlesticks were Valjean’s last connection to that thread of goodness he’d thought he’d held in his grasp, on that mountain road near Digne when he’d wept for the first time in many years. He’d come to believe in the following years that he’d found his way back to the path towards Heaven—only for that belief to slip out of his hand together with that fragile thread.

The burn in his palm ached, reminding him of how far he’d fallen. Should he now lose the Bishop’s gift, too? If Javert took the one thing from him that still remained of the man who’d consigned Valjean’s soul to goodness; if Valjean lost even that fragile thread to cling to...

He knew the darkness that awaited on the other side of that hard path. He didn’t want to walk in it again. And if he had to surrender his body to Javert, if that was the sacrifice that was asked of him, then he would follow, obedient like Abraham on the mountain.

Javert’s hand came forward to grab a fistful of his hair. Valjean could not suppress a flinch as his body shuddered with the old, instinctive terror he’d never been able to shake, even in these years of safety and comfort.

For a heartbeat, they stared at each other, Valjean listening to the panicked thudding of his heart as Javert’s lips parted. There was no smile on his face this time. Valjean could not read the look in his eyes.

A moment later, he found himself pushed back with such force that he ended up sprawled on the floor.

“I told you,” Javert said. “You’ve nothing to bargain with. You’re mine already. As are those candlesticks—at least until we can solve the question of ownership.”

The fall hadn’t hurt, not truly. Not when Valjean had tasted the whip and the cudgel and even the fists of the guards until his body was a tapestry of their violence. Even so, as he rested on the ground in front of Javert, he felt bruised, something inside him raw and aching at the sight of the candlesticks in Javert’s hands.

It was true that he had stolen from a child and condemned Fantine to misery—but was it not also true that he had tried his best to be good? How many hours had he spent in prayer, his head bent before the candlesticks, trying desperately to find a way to escape that dark past that seemed to forever grasp at him?

“Now get back to work.” Javert’s lips twisted into another smile. “Let’s see what you’ve got hidden in that wardrobe over there.”

***

In the end, Javert had left with an air of dissatisfaction. Perhaps he had assumed that Valjean had hidden a pile of stolen treasure in his bedchamber; instead, he had come away from it with an armful of old shirts and trousers he had unceremoniously shoved at Valjean. When they returned to Valjean’s former study, Javert paused in front of his desk. Javert had gone through all the letters earlier while Valjean had been forced to quietly watch and take notes for Javert. Now, Javert reached out for the inkstand he’d already examined earlier, as though he’d expected to find a hidden compartment.

It had been a present from Robert, back when Madeleine had first opened his factory in the new building. The gift had startled a smile out of him—perhaps the first real smile he’d ever given Robert, who’d watched his ascent in the town like the other bourgeois gentlemen, but who’d never once engaged with the rumors other men, jealous of his success, had tried to spread.

It had been Robert, too, who’d encouraged him to accept the position of mayor, and Robert who’d applauded the loudest after Valjean had all but fled from his own acceptance speech, when Robert himself could have held the position Valjean had never wanted.

Valjean watched silently as Javert’s fingers rand idly over the gleaming metal, tracing the body of the horse as if he were trying to coax forth the evil within. But there was no secret compartment, no terrible secrets. There was one thing only at the heart of the little figurine, and that was the seed of the first friendship Valjean had found in more than fifty years.

“A worthless little trinket,” he muttered, then gave Valjean a sharp look, as if he knew that there was a cry trapped in Valjean’s throat even now. “You added it to the inventory?”

Valjean swallowed, watching Javert’s thumb swipe along the horse’s elegant flank. “Yes, sir.”

This time, there wasn’t even the smallest hint of respect in his voice, but all it achieved was to bring another terrible smile to Javert’s face.

“I think I’d better hold on to this then.” Javert caught his eyes as he leaned back in Valjean’s former chair. “A little memento, if you will. It’ll look good on my desk.”

“A trophy,” Valjean said bitterly. “That’s what you mean.”

Everything inside him was tight and aching, the way he’d feel the day after a beating—only it wasn’t his skin that was bruised this time. Something inside him was raw and sore, the yoke on his soul chafing already after a day and a night of wearing it. Despite Valjean’s awareness that he deserved this degradation after what he’d done, something inside him couldn’t help but struggle against the unfairness of it all.

Javert exhaled, sounding almost pleased when he stood at last, taking a step towards him. “Ah. There it is. I knew it would take more than that to beat obedience into you. Is there anything else you want to say to me?”

Valjean could feel the cry that was stuck in his throat, a heavy ball of despair and hate and a wild, blind defiance to Javert’s iron control that made his chest ache as if he’d swallowed something hard and sharp that would tear him apart if he didn’t let it out. Instead, he fought for control, staring desperately at the familiar shape of the horse in Javert’s hands until his eyes ached, too.

“No, sir,” he said at last, his throat burning as if the words were rocks he was forcing out.

Javert came even closer, until Valjean had to close his eyes and turn his face away, unwilling to give Javert the satisfaction of seeing his defeat.

“Good.” Javert spoke softly, his breath brushing against Valjean’s ear. “See that it stays that way.”

***

The rest of the day went somewhat easier. Even so, Valjean found himself praying that the burn would heal soon; he’d rather be digging all day in sun or rain together with the other men than spend a single further day with Javert, a defenseless target for every thought that came to Javert’s mind.

It wasn’t until it was finally evening that Valjean was returned to the barracks and the company of the other men. There was bread on the table, and something was cooking in a pot on the small stove.

The men and women were staring at him when he entered, but Javert’s orders had been very clear: Valjean was to wash and dress in clean clothes. He ignored the stares as he made his way into the small room with the narrow cots that he was to share with the other two men. He could see that they had claimed their beds while he’d been forced to spend the night in Javert’s apartment.

Valjean hesitated a moment, then chose the bed closest to the small, grimy window. Perhaps it would be smarter to choose a bed closer to the door, but the moonlight was gleaming on the roof of the house opposite their window, and something about the sight felt calming— a reminder that freedom was waiting for him still, that it would only take a year’s time until he could escape for good.

Hastily, he washed himself with a pitcher of cold water, then drew on a clean shirt and trousers. Despite all of Robert’s gentle hinting, he had never seen the need to spend much money on his wardrobe; the clothes he owned were serviceable enough, and surely the men who had encouraged him to wear the mayor’s sash had known that they would not find a mayor wearing silken cravats and velvet waistcoats in him. Even so, the clothes Javert had chosen to keep were the simple clothes of a workingman. Without doubt Javert had meant this as a further humiliation, but after so many years of wearing the mayor’s guise, Valjean welcomed the honest, humble clothes. Such a thing could not shame him—not him, a convict from the prison hulks.

It was a small mercy to be spared the red, but a mercy it was—and when the day came that Fantine and her daughter were reunited, it would make it easier to slip off his chains and run. No doubt Javert was aware of that as well. Still. Surely even Javert would slip in his watchfulness every now and then, especially once a year had passed without incident.

When he returned to the small room where the other four newly indentured servants of the town had now sat down at the small table for their meal, the room fell quiet for a moment.

Valjean tried to catch Fantine’s eyes, guilt churning in him once again when he remembered how she had smiled when he’d employed her, noticing the way she now held herself, her lips pressed tightly together and her face turned away.

“Oh, come on, Fantine,” one of the men said. “It was a joke. Anyway, I bet you’re spending the night in a softer bed than we will. You won’t get off more than once. You think he’ll want that one to ladle his soup when he could have you serve him tonight?”

“Leave her alone,” the other man said. “It’s none of your concern anyway. It is how it is.”

“None of my concern? And what do you think—”

Valjean stood as if frozen, staring at Fantine with wide eyes as a terrible realization filled him. At last Fantine turned her head. When she saw him, her eyes narrowed and she spit in his direction. “You can cook your own food,” she said. “Monsieur le Maire. I’d rather serve Javert than you, that’s for sure.”

“Ha, you hear that?” The first man waggled his eyebrows at his neighbor, but Fantine ignored him, still staring at Valjean with such fury that Valjean took a step backwards.

He’d been so glad to have escaped Javert after the long day of his many small humiliations that he’d all but forgotten that he wasn’t the only one in Javert’s power.

No, and he wasn’t the only one, either, who had reason to fear Javert. If Javert were so inclined—if he were that sort of man...

Valjean felt sick as he stood there, helplessly staring at Fantine. She was beautiful; she was indeed the sort of woman a man in Javert’s position would take advantage of, and Valjean couldn’t stop it. He was no longer Javert’s superior. He’d already used the only coin left to him in Arras to bargain for Fantine’s child.

Now, if Javert wanted to force Fantine into his bed, there’d be nothing Valjean could do, and her suffering would be just one further burden added to the long tally of his sins.

Valjean drew in a trembling breath, then suddenly straightened when he remembered Javert’s arousal.

There wasn’t only Fantine Javert was interested in. It was certainly possible that all Javert had taken pleasure from was seeing Valjean humiliated. He could have had forced Valjean into his bed a night ago, after all, and hadn’t. Perhaps Valjean’s shame was all Javert desired, and he’d slake his desires on that poor woman in front of Valjean, who was here only through his own fault.

But he didn’t think that was what Javert wanted. Or perhaps he wanted both, Valjean couldn’t say. Still, he’d seen the way Javert had grown hard. He’d seen the heat in his eyes.

And if this was the sacrifice that was asked of him to make up for what he’d done to Fantine, Valjean would bring it, and willingly.

He started when the door suddenly opened. One of Javert’s agents came in, his eyes suspiciously narrowing when they came to rest on Valjean. Valjean didn’t dare to breathe when the man turned away from him for a moment to stare at Fantine, who’d frozen at his entrance, her spoon halfway to her mouth.

Then the man turned back to Valjean. “You,” he said, making no effort to hide his disgust, when just a day ago he’d greeted Valjean with the utmost respect whenever he passed him. “He wants you tonight. Hurry up.”

***

His heart was beating with relief as much as terror when Valjean found himself assisting Javert once more: taking the gray greatcoat to hang it by the door, taking the coat of black wool, kneeling before Javert to pull off his boots, and serving Javert a dinner of bread, wine and cheese, all the while aware of the door behind them that led into Javert’s bedroom.

It was Valjean, not Fantine, doing all these things. There was relief in that. There was even a justice in it Valjean could appreciate: it was he who had doomed Fantine to this existence; it was only right that it was him, then, who should bear this cross at least.

If Javert wanted it, that was. Valjean was still no closer to figuring out whether this was what Javert had summoned him for, or whether Javert simply enjoyed the view of Valjean’s degradation, saving other desires for later days and a different servant.

When he’d kneeled before Javert to pull of his boots, his hand had brushed the inside of Javert’s thigh by accident. Javert’s lips had parted then, his eyes dark and heated, and Valjean had thought that between his legs, he’d seen something stir beneath the cloth of his trousers again.

But Javert made no further demands of him in that direction. Instead, Javert spent an hour or two reading while Valjean had the honor of sweeping his floors. It wasn’t until Javert at last rose to retire to bed that Valjean realized that it would be him spending the night once more.

Javert gestured towards his bedroom, and with a deep breath, Valjean obeyed. When he entered, he saw that the blanket was resting on the floor, folded, the way he had left it. Javert was behind him, not paying him any attention as he returned his book to a shelf.

Valjean stared at the bed, his throat dry. He thought of Fantine’s tears when she’d left his factory.

Then he began to undress.

Javert wasn’t watching him, for once, and Valjean had to swallow back shame when he saw why: the bronze inkstand in the shape of a horse was in his hands, Javert turning it this way and that, as if to decide whether it should adorn his desk, his book shelf or the window sill.

Already the sight no longer hurt as much as it had earlier that day. Robert had been wrong to place his faith in him, after all. Given enough time, who could say if Valjean wouldn’t have betrayed him the way he had betrayed Fantine? It was a friendship he hadn’t earned, in any case, just as he hadn’t earned the gift. It had been a gift for Madeleine, not Valjean—just as Robert’s friendship had been for Madeleine.

It was Valjean who had been lying to Robert all along.

He folded his trousers and placed them on top of the blanket at the foot of the bed. He hesitated for a moment. He was still wearing his shirt, which went to his thigh, covering him. He knew he should pull it off as well. Shame had no place in this room, not with what he was offering.

Still, when he at last silently moved onto Javert’s bed, it was with the shirt still covering him. He hadn’t managed to bring himself to bare himself completely to Javert—not even now, when he was offering the only thing left to him.

He settled at the head of the bed, just when Javert set the inkstand down on his desk with a pleased sound.

And then Javert finally turned around.

Javert stood motionless. His gaze raked up and down Valjean’s body, although Javert’s face betrayed no surprise. Was he astonished by the action Valjean had taken? Or had Valjean simply anticipated something he would have been commanded to do minutes later?

Valjean could not say, but although Javert stood frozen, every muscle in his body suddenly tense like a pointer that had scented prey, there was no anger on his face at seeing Valjean take possession of Javert’s own bed when by all rights, Valjean’s place was on the floor.

Valjean’s guess had been correct. Something twisted in his stomach at the realization. He had to force himself to keep breathing beneath the weight of Javert’s gaze.

A moment later, still unmoving, Valjean watched as Javert’s tongue came out to moisten his lip, shockingly pink and wet. The sight sent a jolt through Valjean, his heart racing in his chest. He tightened his fingers in the sheets to hide their shaking.

At last Javert exhaled, the sound one of deep satisfaction, as if the sight of Valjean in his bed had given him an answer he’d been searching for.

“Take off your shirt.”

Valjean swallowed. Then his hands went to the hem of his shirt. Slowly, he drew it off, aware of the burning sensation of Javert’s eyes on him.

Javert’s sheets were cool against his skin. He could barely breathe, something inside his chest so tight that every breath was a struggle. He’d never felt more exposed—not on the platform in the market square yesterday, not even when Javert had told him to spread himself open for his inspection.

Javert’s gave him a fleeting smile that didn’t seem as if it was meant for him. More likely, perhaps, was that Valjean had proved one of Javert’s theories right. What theory that would be Valjean couldn’t say—and in any case, he was tired: tired of predicting what Javert was going to say or think, tired of having to rein in his own fear and anger, tired of fearing what was to come.

If Javert had anticipated that it would come to this, all the better. Valjean knew after all what it was Javert truly wanted. It wasn’t his servitude or his body.

Javert wanted his humiliation. His degradation.

And Valjean would let him have it, for as terrified he was of what was going to happen, it meant that it wouldn’t be visited upon Fantine tonight.

Again Javert’s lips twitched, although his amusement didn’t last for long, as if he was too astonished.

“Very well then,” Javert said, and then he began to strip.

Valjean’s throat constricted further as he watched Javert take off his clothes, folding them orderly and resting them on his chair, one by one—his black coat, the gray waistcoat, the meticulously tied cravat of a fine, gray linen, the trousers of black wool—until at last Javert stood before him only in his shirt.

Again Javert exhaled, amused, and Valjean’s heart skipped a beat when he realized that there, beneath the soft, white cotton, something had stirred. No, he hadn’t read Javert wrong at all.

Then Javert drew off his shirt, and Valjean’s breath caught in his throat. He’d seen Javert naked in the morning, when he’d washed. But as nervous as Valjean had been, Javert’s attention hadn’t been on him—the act unthreatening, strangely domestic.

Now Valjean couldn’t look away as terror made his heartbeat pulse in his throat.

Javert was completely nude. Despite his smaller stature, his body was firm with muscle. Valjean knew that he was the stronger man—there had never been a man stronger than him, even in the prison hulks. But even so, Javert stood before him with the absolute confidence of a man who’d never been forced to strip and been searched by unkind hands, whose body had always only belonged to himself. His skin gleamed in the light of the fire that warmed Javert’s bedroom, a smooth brown that was free of the scars that lined Valjean’s body. It was of a warmer shade than that of Cochepaille, who’d been chained by Valjean’s side for several years before Chenildieu had taken his place.

The thought of his old friends made Valjean close his eyes for a moment, overwhelmed. Were they already back in Toulon? No; the trial had been only yesterday; they might not even have left Arras yet. How strange; already, it felt like years had passed since he’d entered the courtroom...

When he opened his eyes again, Javert was still watching him. Valjean forced himself to lower his gaze until it came to rest on where Javert was indeed as hard as he had suspected.

Javert was large, the sight of him intimidating and lewd, although Valjean was no stranger to the sight after nineteen years in the prison hulks, chained side by side without any privacy. He’d seen a hundred men in such a state, perhaps even more; some had even been larger.

Still, this was different. This wasn’t an arousal brought on by dreams or even the touch of a chainmate. It was the sight of Valjean at his mercy that had made Javert’s cock harden. And this time, Valjean’s strength wouldn’t help him—this time, he’d have to surrender himself willingly. Otherwise, it might be Fantine in his place tomorrow.

Javert at last came forward, Valjean’s heartbeat increasing. Even so, he made no move to escape Javert’s touch when he joined him on the bed. Slowly, Javert reached out, trailing a finger down Valjean’s chest, across his stomach that was still tight with dread. Valjean was soft, but at the sight, Javert’s lips quirked again in amusement.

“So this is what you’ve chosen. Did you think I wouldn’t take you up on it? You’d be wrong.”

Valjean struggled to draw in another breath when Javert moved even closer. Nevertheless, he allowed his legs to spread when Javert settled between his thighs.

“Never fucked a man before,” Javert murmured, running a hand up Valjean’s thigh, then forcing him to spread his legs even wider. “Well, you probably won’t care.”

With a laugh, Javert reached out for the unlit lamp on the nightstand. It seemed that just like Valjean, Javert had learned enough from observing the goings-on in the prison hulks to know to smooth some oil over himself.

But then, that shouldn’t come as a surprise, Valjean thought dimly, his eyes riveted to where Javert’s gleaming fingers grasped his own erect prick. Javert had cleaned and bandaged Valjean’s burn, too. Javert wanted to see him degraded—but he didn’t want him injured, not when there was work waiting for Valjean during the day. There was no kindness in Javert, no mercy.

“So silent now? Maybe this is what you’ve been waiting for all along.”

Javert’s slick finger ran up his crease, found the tight opening there. Mortified, Valjean realized that a sound had escaped his lungs at the touch. Above him, Javert was smiling.

“Seems I was right about that.”

Javert’s finger circled the rim, then pressed inside. Valjean’s heart was beating so rapidly inside his ribcage that he thought he was going to faint. Instead, Javert slid a second finger inside him, the oil making it easier to bear than when Javert had searched him a day ago.

“Eager, aren’t you?” With another laugh, Javert withdrew—and then, at last, he moved over Valjean, who gasped in sudden terror, his nails digging into the sheets as terror rose within him.

His thighs were spread around Javert’s hips. Javert’s skin was hot against his own as Javert bent further forward, looming above Valjean. Javert’s cock slid against his crease, hot and slick with the oil—and then it found his hole.

Javert felt impossibly big, much larger than the fingers he’d been forced to become accustomed to over the years. Despite the oil, it ached when the head of Javert’s cock slid inside him, spreading him open until Valjean gasped at the burn.

Above him, Javert groaned—and then his hips came forward, the hard length of his prick sinking deeper into Valjean. Despite the ache and the humiliation, there was a sudden spark of heat that made Valjean arch his back involuntarily.

Javert pulled back a little, then pushed forward again, and the same spark flared, igniting all of his nerves. Above him, Javert was groaning now, his eyes half closed as his body slid against Valjean’s, faster and faster. Valjean felt impossibly full, the violated muscle forced wide open, Javert so deep inside him that he could feel the hot weight of Javert’s balls against his skin every time Javert sank into him to the hilt. It was nearly unbearable to feel Javert so deep inside him, touching him in places that had never been touched before. There was no escape from Javert’s mastery of him even within his own body—but even so, with every agonizing, possessive thrust, there was also an insidious pleasure.

Dimly, as if from far away, Valjean could hear low moaning. His body still hurt, Javert too large—but even so, he scrabbled for purchase on the sheets beneath him as the unbearable pressure within him built and built. Each time Javert slid in and out of him, the motion made new sparks flare up inside him. The rub of Javert’s heavy prick within him was as humiliating as it felt good. And finally even that ache fell away, his body surrendering itself willingly to the rough possession, his hips arching to feel Javert deeper, to make that friction within him last and last and last.

He was panting, he realized at last, more surprised to feel the hot skin of Javert’s shoulders beneath his fingertips than he was to realize that the distant moans he’d heard were his own.

Even now, Valjean couldn’t control the sounds that broke free when Javert thrust back inside him, Valjean’s fingers curling against Javert’s damp skin to hold him closer. Valjean’s entire body was shaking, Javert’s sweat mingling with his own. His hair must have escaped the ribbon; now it stuck to his cheeks, and still all Valjean could do was gasp for air as Javert sunk into him again, a line of fire racing up his spine, his stomach tight with a terrible need.

His cock was trapped between their bodies, aching as much as his abused hole now. And still he couldn’t help but hold on to Javert, squeezing his eyes shut as tears welled up in his eyes. Again Javert buried himself inside him, ruthlessly laying claim with thrust after thrust. Valjean kept gasping for breath as his cock ached relentlessly, chafing against Javert’s stomach with every motion of Javert above him.

Another thrust, the need so sharp that something close to a sob escaped Valjean’s throat. His nails dug into Javert’s shoulder as he writhed beneath him—and then, just like that, still impaled on Javert’s hard cock, Valjean shuddered all over, tears leaking from his eyes as heat rushed through him at last.

Even then, while his body was still trembling with a terrible pleasure, Javert continued to fuck him through it. Every motion of his hips sent another surge of pleasure through Valjean until it was nearly too much—and then Javert, too, groaned, the muscles beneath Valjean’s hands going tight.

Javert found his climax with short, brutal thrusts. His hips rolled against Valjean’s again and again, the heat of his release spreading inside Valjean—and when Javert finally slowed down with another satisfied groan, Valjean realized to his utter mortification that he was still clutching Javert’s shoulders as if to hold him close, the way a lover might.

Javert’s skin was wet with sweat, his muscles slowly relaxing as he went limp above Valjean. When he rolled to his side, Valjean gasped again at the sensation of Javert’s softening cock pulling out of him, his hands slipping at last from Javert’s shoulders.

He felt sore, his hole still aching. Worse, he could feel the hot trickle of Javert’s release out of him. He flushed, breathless and embarrassed by the thought of Javert’s spend filling him, claiming him—marking him as what he was.

It was the sound of Javert’s chuckle that drew him out of his thoughts. Then Javert touched his bare stomach with a finger, and when Valjean looked down at himself, he saw that he had softened again—and that there, on his stomach, gleamed a small pool of his own spend.

Javert dragged his finger through it. “Should have known,” he said with satisfaction in his voice. “You must have missed that. Is that why you came to Arras? Were you eager to see your old friends again?”

Valjean felt heat rush to his face, but he swallowed down the angry denial. Javert would not believe him in any case—not with the way he’d moaned and clung to him, arching beneath him. Not with the way his own spend was still wet on his skin, the undeniable proof of how much he’d wanted Javert’s use of him. The pleasure he’d found in it.

Instead of an answer, he turned his face away in quiet humiliation. A moment later, Javert’s hand clenched around his chin and forced him to meet Javert’s gaze once more.

“Open your mouth,” Javert said.

His heart suddenly beating in his throat once more, Valjean found himself reluctantly obeying. He’d spent the entire day in Javert’s presence—save for those minutes in the barracks. Did Javert truly think that he’d managed to find a small file and hide it in his mouth during that time?

Javert made another small, amused sound when Valjean’s lips reluctantly parted. And then Javert’s mouth was on his.

Shocked, Valjean held still. He could hear nothing but the rapid beating of his own heart. Javert’s hand was still on his chin, his thumb sliding slowly over his skin. Then Javert’s tongue slid into his mouth.

The sensation was obscene. Javert’s tongue was shockingly hot and wet, and when it slid against his own, Valjean trembled. He’d never experienced such a sensation before. His heart was racing as if it wanted to escape his chest, but he forced himself to hold still. Even if he’d wanted to, he didn’t think that he could have moved—not with Javert’s tongue sliding deeper into his mouth, sliding along his own tongue, Javert’s saliva filling his mouth in a sensation so shockingly intimate that he could only tremble and let it happen.

He couldn’t say for how long it went on. There were tears leaking from his eyes again, but Javert didn’t stop, taking possession of him in a way completely unlike the relentless violation of his body earlier.

Javert’s tongue was strangely soft. It didn’t ache to surrender himself to Javert’s demands in such a way—instead, there was a surreal pleasure in the way Javert’s tongue explored his mouth. How odd that there should be anything soft about Javert at all, he found himself thinking when Javert at last pulled back.

Shocked, stunned, Valjean licked at his swollen lips, then flushed again at the way that his mouth was still filled by the taste of Javert.

“Do you think that you can deny me?” Javert asked softly.

They were still resting side by side, Javert’s warm skin pressed to his, Javert’s breath warm against his cheek when he spoke.

“Me? Do you still not know who I am? You told me I am ambitious when I arrived here.”

Javert’s lips twisted into a small smile again, and all Valjean could think about was the way that Javert’s taste lingered on his tongue even now, the way Javert’s lips had been incongruously soft when the words they spoke were so cruel.

“Well, you were right about that. In Toulon, I was just a guard—little better than the beasts I guarded. But we’re no longer in the prison hulks, and I’m not just a guard. I’m the chief of police of this town. A small town—but there will be other towns. Paris, perhaps. Unlike you, I’ve worked hard to be where I am. And I’ll have my due. Not just because it’s a lesson you need to learn. Not just because you thought you could fool me. But because it’s my right, and I won’t be denied. Not by anyone. And especially not by you. Is that clear?”

Valjean swallowed, his voice hoarse when he spoke. “Yes, sir.”

Javert was too close. Valjean was exhausted and afraid, and even now stunned by what had come to pass—by how easily he’d succumbed to Javert, how he’d moaned, might even have begged for it if that was what Javert had demanded…

When Javert gave him a little push, Valjean was glad for the opportunity to flee his embrace.

“Get yourself cleaned up,” Javert said lazily.

Valjean flushed again when Javert’s gaze still rested on him when he stood before the wash basin, wiping away the warm seed that had trickled down his thigh and the mess on his stomach. When he hesitantly approached the bed afterward, Javert huffed another amused laugh.

“Think you’ve earned a night in a soft bed for that? Well, maybe.”

Valjean had to force himself not to look away when Javert looked him up and down, languid and satisfied.

“Ah, but sleeping in my bed comes with a condition. I’ll expect to be woken up in the morning with that insolent mouth put to good use. I’m sure you know what I mean.”

Valjean swallowed, his heart thudding painfully as he turned his face away.

Javert laughed again. “Prefer the floor? Suit yourself.”

Even now, curling up by the foot of Javert’s bed, Valjean could still taste him in his mouth, could still feel him: the touch that had been so shockingly soft, the tense, hot body pressing him into the bed—and he could feel the harsh reality of Javert’s mastery over him in the way his body ached, unaccustomed to the deep penetration.

He exhaled, turning until at last Javert rose to wash himself and then chain Valjean to a leg of the bed again. Afterward, Valjean tried to be quiet and focus on the sound of his breathing instead of thinking about what had come to pass, but it was impossible.

He clenched his burned hand until tears welled up in his eyes once more at the pain. Even so, he couldn’t forget the way he’d writhed beneath Javert. And still, although he was half-sick with shame at his behavior, he could feel the seductive glide of Javert’s tongue against his, hot and soft and gentle, when Valjean more than any other knew that there was nothing about Javert that was soft, and nothing that was gentle.

Javert woke, feeling immensely pleased. It took a long moment until he remembered enough to realize where the feeling came from. Once he did, he smiled to himself as he stretched, remembering the sensation of Valjean beneath him, at his mercy: the tight clutch of Valjean’s body that was at last no longer resisting him, the sound of Valjean’s moans.

When Javert rose to wash, he saw that Valjean was already awake, still chained in place on the floor and watching him with wary eyes.

Javert chuckled to himself as he stepped towards the washbasin.

Outside, the sun was rising. Two of his agents had been on watch last night, and had hopefully left him their reports in the station-house downstairs. Furthermore, there was the matter of Valjean’s former possessions. It would take a while until all of that was settled—the man’s house and the factory would have to be sold, together with the items they’d begun to list. And then Javert was still convinced that somewhere among the mayor’s papers, there might be hints as to accomplices or past crimes.

Nevertheless, following the arrest of the mayor of Montreuil, Javert knew that his name would be spoken in Paris with praise. And those who’d looked upon him as an intruder into the prefecture would soon find out that they’d been wrong.

No, Javert had no intention at all to spend the rest of his life in provincial Montreuil—and Valjean had made certain that he’d be able to leave for a better post much sooner than he’d anticipated.

Javert began to shave, ignoring the reflection of Valjean in his mirror. Valjean, in turn, remained blessedly silent—although Javert was certain that it wouldn’t last for long. He knew the man, after all. And he’d just been handed the proof that even nineteen years in the prison hulks had not broken the man’s obduracy.

It seemed that this was going to be his task here in Montreuil. When he left for a better position, it would be with Valjean fully subdued, no matter what.

Once Javert had finished, he released Valjean from his handcuff, watching from his desk while Valjean hurriedly washed and dressed. 

There was something pleasing about the sight—more pleasing even than it had been the day before. Perhaps it was simply the memory of those strong thighs spreading, the obstinate man finally surrendering in more than just empty words.

Javert allowed his gaze to linger on the strong thighs and the firm buttocks. He could still remember the sensation of Valjean’s hands curling against his shoulders as he panted helplessly. The memory was even more pleasing than the sight of the scars crossing Valjean’s back that were finally revealed to the light.

Last night, Javert had felt for the first time as if he’d truly received a surrender that went deeper than mere words. And he could have it again and again, until Valjean had learned his lesson. Until Javert was sure that Valjean wouldn’t rebel against it again.

When Valjean was finished, Javert pointed to the floor in front of him.

“Kneel.”

Valjean followed, his eyes still wary, but strangely subdued, as though he’d finally realized the full extent of the power Javert’s position gave him.

Javert opened the drawer. From it, he retrieved a clean bandage and the small pot of salve he’d used before. Then he grabbed hold of Valjean’s wrist and unwound the old bandage.

Valjean let it all happen, his eyes fixed on where Javert’s fingers encircled his wrist. He didn’t look up even when Javert dipped a cloth in water and began to clean his palm once more, although Javert could see Valjean’s fingers tremble while new lines of pain appeared around his mouth.

The burn didn’t look worse than it had the day in the carriage, which was a good sign. The wound wasn’t infected, and once it had started to heal, Valjean would have full use of his hand again.

Javert felt a smile tug on his lips as he circled the red burn carefully with the pad of his thumb, spreading salve while also examining the raised, burned skin. Valjean’s breath was coming quickly, his tendons taut like steel wire against Javert’s fingers, but he let it happen without uttering a single sound of pain.

“Look at that,” Javert muttered, amused by the familiar shape beneath his fingertip. “Heads or tails, Valjean? Looks like we’ll find out once it heals.”

Valjean’s head sank even further forward. Without a ribbon to tie his hair back, it fell into his face, shielding him from Javert.

Slowly, meticulously, Javert wound the new bandage around Valjean’s hand and tied it in place. Then, when Valjean allowed his hand to drop with a sigh of relief, Javert reached out to brush back Valjean’s hair, his thumb tracing along his cheek.

For a long moment, Javert lingered there, savoring the fact that at long last, this man was in his power after the nearly unendurable months of having to follow the commands of a convict. Beneath the pad of his thumb, he could feel the lines of Valjean’s jaw, rough with the stubble that was growing in. He traced along Valjean’s bottom lip, noting the way Valjean tensed.

When he pressed his thumb against Valjean’s mouth, the lips reluctantly parted, Valjean watching him from eyes that had gone dark with humiliation. Keeping the finger in his mouth to hold it open, Javert at last leaned forward to press his own mouth to Valjean’s, sliding his tongue inside. Now, despite all of his silent obedience, a muffled sound of shock escaped Valjean, and he shuddered. With great relish, Javert licked against Valjean’s tongue, pleased by how Valjean had to surrender even to this.

Javert ran his tongue over his lips when he pulled back. Valjean’s eyes were still wide—and this time, Valjean was watching him, too shocked to try and hide behind the unruly curtain of hair once more.

Hesitantly, Valjean licked his lip as well. At last he broke his silence, his voice shaky.

“Why?”

Javert exhaled, surprised and strangely amused that it was this that made Valjean speak. “I told you. You’ll give me what I desire. You won’t keep anything from me. You thought you could fool me for more than a year. You thought this was a game you could win. But I’ve known all along what you are. And this time, I’ll make sure that you drink your degradation down to the last dregs. If I have to force it down your throat with my own hand, drop by drop by drop.”

Valjean swallowed convulsively, and Javert reached out again to wind a strand of hair around his finger, giving it a small, experimental tug.

“Now as to this...”

There was a pair of scissors on his desk as well. Javert reached out for it—and now, for the first time, Valjean flinched away from him, a pained sound escaping him when Javert refused to let go of the strand in his hand. A moment later, Valjean seemed to remember where he was, and he reluctantly straightened, but Javert could see that his chest was rising and falling rapidly now. Valjean’s face was paler than it had been before, his eyes darker, nostrils flaring like a horse spooked by a wolf, when all Javert had done was to reach for the scissors.

“Something wrong, Valjean?” he said pointedly, relinquishing the strand to grab hold of a fistful of hair.

Valjean watched him from wide, panicked eyes when the scissors came closer. He didn’t move this time, but when Javert positioned the blades so that they’d cut as close to the scalp as possible, he could feel Valjean tremble.

With the first cut, the fistful of hair he’d grabbed fell to the floor.

Valjean flinched, a motion that seemed entirely instinctive, for when Javert looked at him, he saw that Valjean’s eyes were closed, and that he’d clenched his hands—even the one that was burned.

With a thoughtful sound, Javert reached out again, running his fingers along Valjean’s scalp with deliberate slowness. He took hold of another hank of hair. Then he raised the scissors, allowing the blade to lightly touch Valjean’s head as he positioned it. Once more Valjean shuddered, as if he’d only barely managed to keep from yanking his head back.

Javert raised a brow. He watched when the blades came together, shearing off the section of hair.

Valjean was breathing shallowly. At the open triangle of his shirt, Javert could see that Valjean’s skin was damp with sweat, even though he’d only just washed.

Jean Valjean was afraid. Not of him. Not of what he could do—but of the scissors.

Javert laughed softly to himself, shaking his head as he continued, as slowly and meticulously as before. Little by little, Valjean’s hair fell away, revealing the bare convict skull that he’d known in the prison hulks, Valjean’s pale face and closed eyes no longer hidden from view.

“There. That’s better,” Javert said finally. “Now you look the part once more, monsieur 24601.”

He ran his hand over Valjean’s skull. He’d shorn the hair as short as was possible with a pair of scissors. The remaining hair felt bristly, Valjean’s skull beneath his palm strangely warm and vulnerable. Here and there, his fingertips encountered scars—old, raised lines left by injuries or an unkind barber.

Javert’s lips twitched. “I suppose it’s not only pleasurable memories of the hulks then?”

He could see the flush that rose to Valjean’s cheeks at his words, the way Valjean’s eyes first instinctively rose, then shied away from him.

“This is what you deserve. This is how the people of this town should see you. And they will. Believe me, they will.”

Javert kept running his hand possessively over Valjean’s head, taking note of the way Valjean’s mouth tightened, his entire body tense, desperate to get away. Still, Valjean remained on his knees, obedient—for now.

With a soft, pleased laugh, he at last released Valjean. 

Part of Javert’s morning was spent looking through the former mayor’s belongings once more. Even now, Valjean remained uncommonly quiet; today, when Javert made a joke about some idler begging for money in a letter addressed to the mayor, Valjean flushed as soon as he looked up, quickly lowering his eyes again and remaining silent. It was a marked difference to the man who’d dared to challenge him when it came to the candlesticks just a day ago.

The change was pleasing, Javert couldn’t deny that—especially given what had brought it about.

Javert had woken in a good mood which had lasted through the day, remembering with deep satisfaction the way Valjean’s body had yielded to him. Now, at last, everything was as it should have been all along. No more would Javert’s authority be undermined. In police matters, it was he who ruled. And he would continue to rule, to stamp out even the smallest crime that dared to show its face.

Soon enough, there would be other towns that followed, places to further distinguish himself. Paris, eventually. Javert still remembered the eyes that had rested on him with open distrust, the offices of the prefecture filled with men who looked little better than the men they hunted.

Let them distrust him. One day, they’d jump to do his bidding. He was certain of that.

For now, there was work to be done. The former mayor’s housekeeper had arrived earlier, demanding to know who would pay for the delivery of firewood that had arrived in the morning, and what was to be done about the Spanish gelding in the mayor’s stable.

The beast was magnificent, Javert had to admit that. An inspection of the stable had shown that there were oats and hay enough to last several weeks; even so, the lad who came by every day to see to the horse had demanded to be paid in advance as soon as he heard what had become of his employer.

“No more servants for you,” Javert told Valjean lazily, leaning against the box in which the golden gelding stood. “Are you still sure you made the right choice? Think of the tales you could’ve told in the prison hulks. You’d have been quite the sensation there, telling tales of how you’ve lorded it over respectable citizens.”

Valjean remained quiet. A moment later, the gelding came towards the door, ears curiously pointed forward. Then the proud neck bent gracefully as he snuffled at Javert’s cravat. When Javert turned around, the horse huffed against his offered hand before serenely allowing him to stroke his golden neck.

The beast was gorgeous—the finest in the department, or so the talk had been in town, back when people had still spoken Madeleine’s name with reverence.

Javert smiled to himself as he ran his hand along the muscled neck, the flaxen mane falling over his hand like silk. “You must be bored, cooped up in here all day. But not for much longer.”

The gelding exhaled noisily, watching him with bright eyes. A proud beast indeed—but, unlike Valjean, a creature well aware of its standing and its duty. It would carry any man who owned it.

“We’ll take you with us.” Javert ran his hand down the gelding’s nose. “No need for someone to come and look after you. And once all of Valjean’s belongings are sold, they’ll find a buyer for you as well. I’m sure you’ll fetch a good price.”

When he turned back to Valjean, the horse still contentedly exhaling against his shoulder, he found Valjean’s eyes lowered. The sight was pleasing, even though it brought with it a memory now of Valjean beneath him, defeated and damp with sweat, his chest heaving—much like a horse that had tried to fight the hand of its master.

Javert felt his smile widen. “Pick up his tack and that sack of oats. I’m taking him for now.”

“I’ll buy him.”

Surprised by the sudden interruption coming from the door that led out into the courtyard, Javert turned around. In the opening, outlined by the sunlight that fell in, a man was standing. When he took a step forward and took off his hat, Javert realized who it was: Monsieur Robert, one of the former mayor’s supporters.

Surely a man like Robert couldn’t still be feeling any kind of loyalty for a man from the hulks, a recidivist who’d fooled an entire town?

“The court will be glad to hear that,” Javert said. “Surely there will be an auction, once the investigation is finished.”

“I could take him right away,” Robert offered, his gaze still lingering on Valjean. “I’d save you the trouble of having to care for him—and the expense.”

Javert felt suspicion rise within him—but no, Robert was a respectable man. At most, this was a case of misguided sentimentality. A man like Robert, from a good, prosperous family, an elector, would not make common cause with a convict.

“It’s no trouble.” Javert kept smiling as he looked at Robert.

After a moment, Robert’s gaze returned to Valjean, and he swallowed. Robert seemed strangely unsettled, his eyes skittering away from Valjean before returning to him, and after a moment Javert realized that of course Robert had never seen Valjean like this—shorn like a convict.

“That’s more like it, isn’t it?” Javert said amicably. “You should have seen him in his red blouse. He would have frightened you right away. You’d never have offered your hand to a man like that.”

Robert still hesitated. Then his eyes came to rest on Valjean’s bandaged hand. “What happened to your hand?”

Javert watched, satisfied, when Valjean flushed, his face lowering further—but now there was no hair to hide his distress behind.

It was a strange thing that a man from the hulks should feel such shame. But then, of course, it was entirely possible that all of this was part of his game, too—a game devised to make Javert feel secure and relax his hold on him. After all, Valjean hadn’t blushed when he’d been chained and stripped in Toulon. And a man like that didn’t develop the sensitivities of a young girl late in life.

Especially not a man from the hulks with a convict’s tastes...

Javert could barely suppress a laugh at the thought. “It’s nothing. He burned himself. We’ll have him back digging and hauling rocks with the others in a day or two; don’t worry, monsieur. The town will get its labor out of him.”

When Robert remained by the door, still looking more shocked than he had any right to, Javert at last opened the box and grabbed the horse’s halter. The gelding came forward eagerly, snorting in excitement at getting to leave the stable.

“Valjean,” Javert said curtly. “Hurry up.”

Robert didn’t move when Javert led the golden gelding past him. He stopped the horse outside—and just as he had assumed, he could hear the soft whisper of voices within when Valjean passed Robert, carrying the gelding’s tack and the sack of oats.

“Madeleine—Valjean—are you well?”

Javert strained to listen. There was a long pause. Then, very quietly, he could make out Valjean’s voice.

“I’m sorry. You shouldn’t worry about me. You’re a good man, and people will talk if they see you—”

“I don’t care about people! It’s not right what’s been done to you. All you’ve done for this town—”

“I have to go. Goodbye, Robert.”

Javert stroked the gelding’s gleaming coat, who’d raised his head, his nostrils wide as he followed the path of a bird that had alighted from a tree in the former mayor’s courtyard. A moment later, Valjean appeared from the stable. Javert gave him a cold smile, and Valjean guiltily lowered his eyes.

It was a pity that Valjean, that conniving fox, had managed to win a respectable bourgeois’ heart. Javert could hardly criticize Robert openly for such ill-placed friendship.

In any case, it might not be necessary. It was a common annoyance that a soft-hearted man, no matter how respectable his place in the world, might be tricked into feeling pity for a degraded creature—a concubine, a thieving orphan, a stranger down on his luck who’d soon turn to murder. And perhaps that was the explanation for Valjean’s false piety during his years in Montreuil—it was well-known that Robert was a devout man who went to Mass every Sunday. No doubt that had been part of Valjean’s plan, too, to first win Robert’s trust and then use his influence to gain power over the town.

But now that Valjean’s mask was off, Robert would come to see the truth, even if it might take a few weeks. For men with such soft hearts, it always took time to accept the truth.

Still, Javert would make sure that this was a truth no one in the town would forget. They’d see Valjean’s degradation written on his body, in every drop of sweat, in every lifted rock, in hour after hour of hard labor to pay for his crimes. Javert would see to it himself.

It was already dark when Valjean was at last sent back to the barracks, with curt orders to wash and change. It was hard not to think of what had happened during the past night—still, as much as the shame burned inside him, there was the small spark of relief that Fantine had been spared that fate.

She looked tired, he saw when he entered the small room where the other indentured workers had already gathered around their rickety table once more. The smell of the food was familiar: a cabbage soup, and the four people gathered around the table held pieces of dark bread in their hands. Fantine’s hair was hidden beneath a dusty cap of faded blue. Her hands looked red and chafed, and the other workers all wore similar expressions of exhaustion.

Both of the men looked up when he entered, staring at him with mistrust and hostility. Was it because he was a convict—or was it because he hadn’t shared their labor?

It was impossible to spend nineteen years in the hulks without knowing what any sort of special treatment did to a man in such a group as theirs was. Still. He would make the same decision all over again, for Fantine’s sake.

Valjean gave her a tentative smile when she, too, turned her head to stare at him.

“You look tired,” he said softly. “Are they treating you well, Fantine?”

She spat in his direction again. “By all rights it should be you, working out there in the midday heat, breathing the dust of the road all day!”

Valjean lowered his head in acknowledgment of the truth of her words. “I’m sorry. If I could, I—”

The agent who’d accompanied him to the barracks banged on the door. “Hurry up, Valjean!”

Valjean exhaled. When he looked up, he saw that Fantine had demonstratively turned back to her bowl of soup, dipping the bread into the broth. There were only four bowls on the table. Only four pieces of bread. No one had thought to set a place for him.

Valjean felt his own exhaustion catch up with him.

Javert had made him carry boxes of his own possessions back and forth, and there had been the sack of oats—but neither had been heavy enough to reinjure his burned hands. The labor had been humiliating, but not particularly hard. He had no right to feel exhaustion, not when the others had been forced to take his part of the burden as they labored on the street by the ramparts.

Quietly, he went into the chamber where the narrow beds stood. There was an old washbasin, and a pitcher that still had some water left in it. He washed himself hastily, then pulled on clean clothes.

When he emerged into the ante-chamber once more, the man called Caillot looked up, then snorted in derision.

“Still too good to work with us, eh, Monsieur le Maire?”

“I have no doubt he’ll have me working with you in a day or two,” Valjean said tiredly. It would be preferable, in any case, to spending all day beneath Javert’s eyes, listening to every terrible thought that came to Javert’s mind, worrying about what the night might bring.

“Is that so?” the other man asked. “From what we hear, you’ve made sure you get to sleep in a soft bed at night.”

“And probably eat his food, too.”

The door was impatiently thrust open. “Shut up and hurry, convict,” the agent barked. “Don’t make me wait again, or it’ll be a beating—for all of you.”

With his head lowered, Valjean followed. When he entered Javert’s apartment, he found Javert going through letters.

“Make yourself useful,” Javert said, staring at him across the desk. “Sweep the floor, brush my coat, clean my boots. Then set the table and serve my dinner.”

Valjean swallowed, his chest tight all of a sudden as he looked at Javert, whose eyes gleamed in the light of the candle. Just one day ago, Javert’s body had pressed him into the bed, and he’d felt Javert’s skin, damp with perspiration, hot against his own...

He flushed and hastily turned away to retrieve Javert’s coat, to which some of the golden hairs of the palomino clung, together with the dust of the streets.

Every now and then, he looked up, only to find Javert still bent over his letters. It was a relief to be spared those burning eyes boring into his own—eyes that had seen him writhe, eyes that had seen him come undone as easily as if he’d planned to seduce Javert all along.

Was that what Javert thought?

Yet what did it matter if he did? Javert already thought that Valjean was the lowest of the low. And as long as it pleased him to call in Valjean to serve him in the evenings, Fantine was safe. That was what mattered.

Carefully, Valjean hung the clean coat in its place by the door. Then he retrieved Javert’s boots, settling with them on the ground by the stove so that he had light for his work.

The work was almost meditative. If Javert truly thought that he could humiliate him with honest work, he was wrong. When Valjean was young, he had stolen not because he was too lazy for hard work, but simply because there was no work to be had.

Perhaps there had been hubris in accepting the mayor’s sash—Valjean could see that now. He had thought to do good, but had not Fantine’s case shown that even when he thought to do the right thing, what he touched would turn to misery? Instead of striving for more, he should have been satisfied with a quiet, simple life after the hulks. After all, he had never shied away from work. And whatever Javert might think, there was no shame in the simple tasks he was ordered to do.

When Valjean raised his eyes, having regained a small amount of calmness from the repetitive motion of the greasy cloth against the leather, he found that Javert was no longer focused on his letters. Instead, Javert’s gaze was resting on him once more, and immediately heat rushed to Valjean’s face.

Shakily, he looked at where his fingers were rubbing the black grease into the shining leather, but it was no use. Already the thoughts of what Javert would demand this night had returned and refused to leave.

It was no matter, he told himself. There was no shame in that, either—he didn’t submit to gain an advantage, to make his life easier, but to spare someone else from having to take his position. And yet, if that were the case, then why had he clung to Javert like that...?

His mind skidded away from the thought, and he hastily raised his eyes once more.

Javert was still watching him, and this time, with his heart suddenly thudding against his ribs, Valjean found himself unable to avert his gaze.

After a moment, Javert put his pen aside, steepling his fingers. “Don’t get used to this. After tomorrow, you’ll be back at work with the others. You think you’re lucky you escaped a lifetime in the hulks, but this isn’t the stroke of luck you think it is. I’ll make sure of that.”

“I’m not afraid of work,” Valjean said. “I was a pruner once.”

Javert’s lips twisted into a smile. “You’re not a pruner. You’re a convict. A man from the prison hulks. Nineteen years, Valjean. You’ll never be anything else in your life, and I’ll make sure you know that.”

Valjean swallowed, then lowered his gaze. Beneath his hands, the leather of Javert’s boots was gleaming, polished to spotless perfection.

“I know it, sir,” he said quietly, thinking of the disbelief on Robert’s face once more, the way Fantine had turned away from him. “I know it.”

Javert made a disbelieving, amused sound. “We’ll see about that.”

Then he took up another piece of paper, dipping his quill into the inkwell that had once stood on Valjean’s desk. A moment later, the scratching sound of the nib on paper filled the room once more, and Valjean continued to mechanically rub the grease into the supple leather, trying not to think of what was to come.

An hour later, Javert finally set his letters aside, motioning for Valjean to start serving his dinner. There was a woman who cooked for him; the fare, Valjean had seen, was simple but better, perhaps, than what an inspector would have in other towns. He himself had made certain of that, after all, forcing himself to fund the town’s police with the same generosity with which he funded hospital beds, doctors and teachers.

Now, as Valjean laid the table with the simple china that would have been purchased with his money, just like the table and the bed in which he had been forced to surrender himself to Javert, he couldn’t help but feel a pang of regret at his generosity.

Perhaps, had he been less generous, Javert would not have been sent here. Perhaps, had he made it clear right from the start that Javert’s impertinent insinuations were an affront he wouldn’t let pass, Javert would’ve never probed further, and Valjean wouldn’t have been so shaken by his fear and guilt that he’d sent Fantine away...

But no, that was impossible. In that case, another man would be wearing his chains in the hulks now, condemned to an eternity of a suffering that was Valjean’s burden to carry.

There were already too many Valjean had wronged. The weight of yet another soul on his conscience would be unbearable.

Quietly, he served Javert his dinner: cold chicken, bread, and cheese. At Javert’s command, he poured a glass of wine as well. Valjean realized with surprise that he was hungry as well: he’d had stale bread and a bit of cheese when Javert had eaten at noon, but he hadn’t been given enough time to join the other workers for their sad dinner—if they’d even shared with him.

Valjean returned the bottle of wine to the small cabinet, then turned towards Javert again. But this time, Javert didn’t have another task waiting for him. Instead, Javert gave him a thoughtful look, then motioned with a finger, summoning him closer.

When Valjean hesitantly approached, Javert pointed to the ground next to his chair.

“Kneel,” he said a moment later, impatience in his voice, when Valjean gave him a questioning look.

Valjean swallowed, his heart pounding in his chest once more. Slowly, he sank to his knees, struggling to keep his mind free from thoughts of what Javert might demand. What use was there in fear anyway? As Javert had already proved to him, there was nothing he couldn’t demand—and nothing Valjean wouldn’t do.

A moment later, Javert’s fingers touched his head. Instinct made Valjean flinch; in return, Javert made a low sound of amusement, his fingers tightening around Valjean’s skull for a moment before he slowly, thoughtfully, stroked Valjean, as if to reassure himself of the success of his morning’s work.

Valjean forced himself to hold still for it. Once more he told himself that there were worse things Javert could demand. Earlier, he’d been able to acknowledge that there was no shame in sweeping a floor, in polishing boots, or even in carrying rocks with the other indentured workers. But there was nothing that could take away the burning shame at this reminder of who he was, Javert’s fingers awakening the memories of nineteen long years of pain and unkind hands, of being shorn like a beast, and of hands and dull blades that had no care for the skin they nicked.

Valjean remained on his knees, his hands clenched despite the pain of the burn, even when Javert at last ceased touching him. For long minutes, there was only the sound of Javert eating.

Finally, when Valjean dared to relax at last, believing the torment to be over, he saw a motion from the corner of his eye. When he turned his head, he saw that Javert was holding a piece of bread in his fingers—holding it close to his mouth, as if he expected Valjean to feed out of his hand, like an animal.

Valjean’s heart thudded against his ribcage, his empty stomach clenching with the reminder that all the food he’d had was the sparse meal at noon.

Javert kept holding out the morsel of food—temptingly, or tauntingly?

Valjean turned his face away, squeezing his eyes shut. A long moment later, he could hear Javert straightening in his chair once more.

“Suit yourself,” Javert said with a snort of amusement.

Then there were the familiar background sounds of Javert finishing his meal. Silently, Valjean remained on his knees, staring blindly at the pattern of the wooden floor before him, uncomfortably aware of every heartbeat that seemed to shudder through him with the force of a church bell.

It was foolish to deny Javert. Shouldn’t he have learned that lesson yesterday? And it was even more foolish to reject food—that was a lesson he should have learned in those nineteen years in the hulks, living on black bread and beans.

Still, the thought of feeding from Javert’s fingers like a tame animal had made him so sick at heart that he hadn’t been able to make himself surrender to that. Even now, the thought made him shiver with a pervasive unease he couldn’t shake.

Javert might command his body, but he didn’t possess his soul. Valjean could be forced to give his obedience—but his soul already belonged to another.

By the time Javert had finished another letter to the prosecutor in Arras, as well as a confidential summary of his investigation into the false mayor’s correspondence and belongings for Paris, his candle had nearly burned down. He closed the inkwell and returned his quill to its holder, taking a moment to admire yet again the elegant form of the bronze horse, made even more pleasing by the fact that it had once adorned Madeleine’s office.

Then he stood, the chair scraping against the wooden floor. At the sound Valjean looked up, then rose as well from where he’d been sitting on the floor.

When Javert nodded towards the door to his bedchamber, Valjean obeyed without protest; Javert lingered in the doorway for a moment to admire a view even more unlikely, and even more pleasing, than that of the bronze horse on his desk: Jean Valjean, his head bent, slowly stripping out of his clothes until only his shirt remained.

Then Valjean turned his head. When he caught Javert’s gaze, new heat rose to his cheeks. Still, he grasped hold of his shirt and pulled it off as well, revealing the strong, scarred back, before he settled down on Javert’s bed—still silent, but now without his hair to hide behind.

Javert smiled. “Ah, you assume I want you in my bed again.”

Valjean raised his head. “Don’t you?”

Javert exhaled in amusement, but didn’t answer. Valjean didn’t move off the bed in any case, and Javert stepped towards his washbasin, disrobing before he washed himself. The water was cold on his skin; even so, it did nothing to diminish the heat that had begun to rise at the sight of Valjean’s broad shoulders.

He took his time; the thought that Valjean had to wait on his pleasure, right here in his bedroom, was nearly as potent as the sight of that strong body finally at his mercy.

When he turned around at last, he saw that Valjean was indeed still waiting on the bed, his head lowered and his hands folded in his lap. Javert reached out to turn up the lamp until the room was brightly lit. Valjean was watching as Javert settled on the bed. Valjean’s eyes were wide and dark, his breath coming fast, but remaining motionless—the very image of submission.

Javert felt a smile tug at his lips as he reached out, trailing his fingers down the powerful chest. Muscles tensed at his touch, but Valjean didn’t move, the body that was as formidable as that of a lion bearing his touch without complaint.

Javert’s hand dropped lower, the muscles of Valjean’s stomach contracting. Valjean was soft; Javert ran his thumb along the small length, then smoothed his palm over a powerful thigh. Truly, in his own way, Valjean was as magnificent as his Spanish beast—and who knew, perhaps he could be tamed yet.

Javert grabbed hold of Valjean’s shoulder and pushed; Valjean followed obediently enough, allowing Javert to position him on his hands and knees. Slowly, Javert ran his hand over his back, inspecting the tapestry of scars. Nineteen years in the hulks and the punishment of four escapes had not tamed this man—and yet, wasn’t it true that for some men, it took more than the lash to teach them to bend to the law? 

Even now, with Valjean beneath his hands, it was impossible to forget the sensation of Valjean’s surrender during the past night. The mere thought made Javert’s body throb with renewed need, his arousal aching furiously as he allowed his hand to trail lower. Valjean’s buttocks were firm and round with muscles, and when Javert’s hand slid down the inside of a thigh, he could feel the shudder that ran through Valjean a moment before those strong thighs obediently spread.

Javert reached out for the oil, then smoothed it over himself. Valjean remained motionless, head bent in surrender, awaiting Javert’s pleasure. It was a marked difference to the filthy man who’d hung before him in chains once, watching him with the feral eyes of a wolf as Javert had circled him.

The memory made Javert smile.

“I have to admit,” he murmured when he moved forward, his hard cock sliding along the crease between Valjean’s buttocks, “that I was wrong about one thing. I thought you were a failure even for a criminal. Nineteen years for a loaf of bread, Valjean! But here you are. Playing at being a magistrate for years. Maybe they’d never have unmasked you if it wasn’t for me. See, I’ll admit that I was wrong. There’s more to you than I thought there was. It’s impressive, almost. Just think of what could have become of you if you’d followed my path.”

There was a soft, muffled groan from Valjean when Javert’s cock slowly began to push in. Valjean was tight—after all, it had been a while since he’d been in the hulks. And it seemed that he’d found no intimate friend here in Montreuil, too busy spinning his web of lies.

Still, the oil helped, and Valjean put up no protest. Javert’s hands kept running up and down Valjean’s thighs as he pushed in deeper, holding back a groan of his own at how tight and hot Valjean felt.

“Of course,” Javert said breathlessly at last, “men like you prefer the easy path of crime. I’ve seen it all my life. There you are, released at last, free after nineteen years—and the first thing you do is create a false identity, procure false papers, lie and steal until the first crime is dwarfed by your new evils.”

Another broken sound from Valjean, and when Javert pulled back, only to thrust back in, it turned into a moan, Valjean’s back arching.

Breathlessly, Javert laughed. Well, he’d been right about one thing. Valjean would never be able to deny his past in the hulks. He’d developed a taste for this sort of thing.

Perhaps it had even been Javert’s derision back in Toulon that had set Valjean on this path. Would that not be hilarious? To think that Valjean had wanted to prove that he was a better thief than Javert had believed…

“Perhaps I shouldn’t blame the people in this town—not, not even your dear friend M. Robert.” Javert held still for a moment, breathing heavily. “They don’t know what that is, a convict from the hulks. But I know you. From thief you turn false magistrate, forger, brigand, murderer, with as much ease as a woman changing her dress before she goes out. But I know. I know just what you are. And I’m going to put an end to it. This is what you are now, and what you’ll stay.”

Beneath him, Valjean groaned, his back damp with perspiration. Even now, when Valjean was completely at his mercy, Javert could feel the shudder that ran through his body.

“And what would you call this? Sir?” Valjean managed to ask, his voice tight, as if he had to struggle to hold back another groan.

Javert scoffed, then pushed in, all the way in one hard thrust. It forced a strangled gasp from Valjean, whose body tightened around Javert just as his arms gave in and he half collapsed. Javert leaned over him, trailing his lips over the droplets of sweat that stained Valjean’s bent neck.

“I’d call it mine. My servant. We’re not in the hulks, Valjean. You’ll be whatever I want you to be here. And for as long as I’m the chief of police of this town, you’ll do exactly as I say. You’ll dress me and wash me and serve me, you’ll warm my bed, and you’ll learn to do it well. I’ll make sure of that.”

Valjean’s only reply was a low moan when Javert pulled back. Valjean’s fingers clenched around the sheets until Javert grabbed hold of his wrists, pressing them against the small of Valjean’s back to hold them there as he pushed in again and again, Valjean so tight that the friction was almost painful. The sight of Valjean utterly defeated beneath him made his own cock throb as if even this wasn’t enough, the hunger within him still rising as he watched himself push in and out of Valjean’s spread hole.

To think that this man had pretended to be a magistrate; to think that he’d dared to give orders to Javert...

Valjean moaned brokenly into the sheets. Had M. Robert seen him now, what would he have said? The thought brought a smile to Javert’s face, his teeth scraping against a cluster of scars on Valjean’s right shoulder.

“You’re never going to be a magistrate again,” he said breathlessly, moments before he found release, burying himself inside Valjean with thrust after thrust while Valjean arched desperately against him.

Long minutes later, Javert lazily rubbed his thumb along a line that wrapped halfway around Valjean’s back. They had collapsed side by side. Even now he could feel the powerful body heaving as Valjean panted for breath. Valjean’s back was hot and slick with sweat beneath Javert’s touch. Javert only had to tilt his head for his mouth to brush against damp skin. With the tip of his tongue, he touched a glistening droplet that was running down from Valjean’s nape, tasting salt.

When he ran his hand down Valjean’s flank, touching the steely sinew and muscle of nineteen years of forced labor, he encountered a telltale stickiness on Valjean’s stomach. Smiling, he drew his thumb along the softening length that now curled damply against Valjean’s thigh before he nudged the testes beneath.

“No doubt you think that this will go the way it did in the hulks,” Javert murmured. “But I’m not easily fooled. I told you what I want from you. I’m not going to rest until you’ve learned this lesson. It’s going to take time, I know. But you’ll learn it. And until then… Well, perhaps it shouldn’t have been a surprise, given your time in the hulks, but I think you’ll find serving me a lot more agreeable than you’ve pretended so far. This,”—he nudged Valjean’s length again—”doesn’t lie.”

Valjean’s labored breathing had calmed a little. Still, the man was suspiciously silent. Embarrassed, perhaps, that Javert had once again beaten him at his own game.

With a soft laugh, Javert drew his hand up Valjean’s chest, his mouth still resting against his damp nape. “So. What will it be tonight? The offer of a soft bed still stands…”

For the span of three heartbeats, Valjean remain motionless in his embrace, his breath coming in soft, exhausted gasps. Then he pushed himself up on his arms, slowly leaving the bed without meeting Javert’s eyes.

For a moment, something not unlike regret rose in Javert, but he was quickly distracted by the pleasing sight of Valjean, still completely bare, making use of the washbasin to wipe the mess from his stomach and thighs. Then Valjean went to lie down on the wooden floor at the foot of his bed again.

He’d have Valjean, sooner or later. There was a sort of pride in such men of the hulks—and in Toulon, Valjean would no doubt have been able to boast of his exploits as magistrate. But soon, Valjean would learn that he’d be afforded no luxuries here, no respect from fellow prisoners. Here, in Montreuil, the only person whose opinion should matter to him was that of Javert. Valjean wasn’t stupid, his latest crimes had proved that. He’d surrender to the truth soon enough.

And until then… There was satisfaction in wearing away at Valjean’s obduracy, little by little. Valjean might be smarter than Javert had assumed back in the hulks, going from simple theft to such a magnificent crime committed right beneath the eyes of the public—but Javert had been correct in that a man such as Valjean wouldn’t walk away from a life of crime. They never did.

***

In the morning, Javert awoke in a good mood. The sun was shining in through his window, painting patterns of gold on the blanket that covered him. When he rose, he found Valjean awake as well, looking at him from watchful, wary eyes.

In the hulks, Valjean wouldn’t have dared to meet his eyes—but Javert didn’t mind. On the contrary. There was a special satisfaction in how unsettled Valjean was, which just proved that Javert had been right about that as well: in a place like Toulon, among hundreds of convicts, Valjean could slip easily into his old habits and hatch plans for escape and further crimes. But now that Javert had made him his personal responsibility, Valjean would have no chance to hide amongst others of his kind.

Valjean might have grasped at this opportunity because it seemed like an easier sentence—but Javert was going to make certain that it wasn’t.

He unshackled Valjean, then motioned for him to rise.

“It’s about time you made yourself more useful,” he said, nodding at the washbasin and the pitcher of water. “Wash me.”

Once more Valjean gave him one of those wary looks that now were no longer hidden behind unruly hair. At last, he bent his head in acquiescence.

Javert stepped in front of the washbasin. The sunlight that fell in pooled on the floor here, warming his bare skin. Valjean had slipped on his shirt again before Javert had chained him last night. Now, he hesitated a moment, his face heating when his eyes met Javert’s as if by accident. Then he quickly lowered his gaze again to pour water, wetting the cloth.

Javert felt his lips twitching. Valjean, shy—after nineteen years in the hulks, used to way worse than what Javert had demanded so far? The thought was enough to make him laugh. Even so, if this was another game Valjean was playing, it made no sense—surely even Valjean wasn’t foolish enough to believe that he could trick Javert into compassion for a recidivist with such a ridiculous display?

Maybe the truth was simply that Javert had succeeded in unsettling Valjean. The man knew life in the hulks—but here, with no chain to drag and no red blouse, perhaps he was indeed out of his depth.

It was explanation enough for now, Javert decided, distracted by the way Valjean’s eyes briefly flickered up to his again before Valjean pressed the wet cloth to his chest.

The water was tepid, the sun having warmed the pewter for an hour already before he’d risen. It was a welcome reprieve from the icy water of the winter months, even though the pay had been more than generous for an inspector in a small, provincial town like Montreuil, and Javert had been able to afford a fire every day. Lazily, Javert wondered whether that had been part of Madeleine’s plan too—the money spent on doctors and hospital beds had been to take in the town’s electors, and the money spent on the police might just have sufficed to cause any other man sent here by the prefecture to look the other way. Who’d want to question a mayor as generous as this, when in any other town, he’d barely make enough to afford food and rent—without even the luxury of a fire through all the winter months, a generous apartment, and a finer horse than that of the chief inspector in Paris?

Valjean took up the lavender-scented ball of fine Marseille soap—another luxury paid for with Valjean’s coin. The thought made Javert smile while Valjean worked up a lather before returning once more to his work, the cloth sliding gently over Javert’s skin. Even though Valjean kept his eyes averted, his apprehension still betrayed by the flush on his cheeks, he worked slowly and meticulously, raising Javert’s arms so that he could wash beneath them, then sliding the cloth all the way down to Javert’s wrists.

Finally Valjean dropped to his knees again. Beginning at Javert’s ankles, he made his way upward just as slowly. There was a heartbeat of hesitation—but then Valjean worked the soapy cloth between Javert’s legs, washing the coarse curls at the root of his shaft as well as the length itself with hesitant fingers, carefully wiping the cloth over his testicles as well. Javert’s prick gave an interested jolt at the sensation, and Valjean at last gave himself away, freezing for just a moment before he continued his work.

Idly, Javert watched, intrigued by the way their closeness seemed to affect Valjean despite the man’s long years of experience with such things. But then, in the hulks, everything would have happened on Valjean’s terms. Who had been chained next to Valjean in those years he’d been adjutant-guard? He couldn’t remember, but he didn’t doubt that given his strength, Valjean’s nights had been pleasant enough back then.

Was that why Valjean was so jumpy? Because in the hulks, he’d always found a willing mouth—but he’d never been forced to use his mouth on another?

There was something amusing to the idea that a man could come out of the hulks after nineteen years, quailing at the sight of a hard cock in his face.

Or perhaps the following years had spoiled Valjean. Perhaps he’d found such satisfaction from playing the mayor that he’d come to believe that he did indeed belong among the town’s electors.

Well, the past two nights had proved that even someone as cleverly disguised at Valjean couldn’t leave the tastes of the hulks behind.

Valjean remained carefully silent, making certain not to touch Javert except for the touch of the cloth. Javert looked out of the window, where the sun now gleamed on the shingles of the roof on the other side of the street. Meanwhile Valjean soaped his back, then moved back to the washbasin to rinse the cloth. Next, Valjean began to wash the suds from his body—and once more he hesitated for a brief moment before he washed Javert’s cock, which was still half-hard.

It was early yet, Javert decided, glancing at the window again. Even the water-carrier hadn’t yet started on his round through the streets.

He waited until Valjean had finished drying his body before he stepped back, sitting down on the edge of the bed. The old shirt was clinging to Valjean’s broad frame, the cotton worn so thin that it was translucent where the sun hit it, the sleeves damp from the water.

Valjean stood quietly in the spot of sunlight Javert had deserted. Even the rough convict’s crop didn’t distract from the powerful lines of his body and the memory of feeling him arch in surrender to him.

When Valjean reluctantly raised his head to meet his gaze, his eyes were dark and hesitant, reminding Javert of those of a wild animal.

He’d cried, hadn’t he, that first night he’d given himself over to Javert. What a strange thing for a convict…

Javert leaned back and allowed his legs to spread. He could see Valjean swallow when his eyes flickered down to where Javert’s cock was throbbing with renewed interest.

Javert smiled. “So what are you going to do about that?”

Valjean’s lips parted. He raised his eyes to Javert again—and this time, he didn’t look away when he finally stepped closer.

“Do you want—” Valjean began, but apparently couldn’t make himself finish the thought, hesitating in front of Javert as if even now, something kept him from going to his knees.

Javert felt his smile widen. He’d have him, sooner or later. It would be all the sweeter then for the way Valjean still fought against the reins and spurs.

“Your hand will do,” he said lazily, nodding to the spot next to him.

Valjean took a deep breath before he sat down by his side. He rested his hand on Javert’s thigh, then slid it upward, his fingers curling around Javert’s prick.

Slowly, he stroked him, once, twice, then raised his eyes to Javert again. “Like that... Sir?”

Javert reached down, curling his own fingers around Valjean’s. Valjean froze for a heartbeat, but didn’t pull away. They were so close that Javert could hear Valjean’s ragged breath.

He tightened his fingers until Valjean’s had to follow suit, a satisfied moan escaping Javert when together, they stroked upwards.

“Like that,” he murmured.

Valjean’s head was tilted down, his wide, dark eyes staring at their hands. Javert reached out with his other hand, tilting up his chin. He rubbed the pad of his thumb against the corner of Valjean’s mouth until he exhaled nervously again. Then Javert slid his hand around to rest it against Valjean’s nape, holding him in place as he pressed his lips to Valjean’s.

Once again, a soft sound escaped Valjean when Javert slid his tongue into his mouth. Beneath his hand, Valjean’s fingers had frozen. After a moment, they resumed their work, and Javert released Valjean’s hand to grasp hold of his head with both hands, savoring the wet slide of his tongue against Valjean’s.

Valjean’s obedience was nearly as satisfying as the tight grip of his fingers. Javert rubbed his thumb against the lips that had parted for him, keeping his hands on Valjean’s face even when he found relief at last, with a satisfied moan. When he at last pulled away, Valjean’s lips were wet and bruised-looking—as were his eyes.

Javert couldn’t keep himself from reaching out again. Slowly, he traced the pad of his thumb along the vulnerable skin beneath Valjean’s eye. Valjean suffered his touch quietly, watching him with eyes that were wide, almost shocked—only what was there in this room that would shock a man like Valjean, after uncounted nights in the hulks?

Javert wondered all of a sudden whether Valjean had formed a lasting attachment there. These things happened, sometimes; even the most hardened of criminals could form such a strange bond with a new arrival who had pretty eyes or a soft, red mouth. Had the sight of the three convicts in Arras stirred up old feelings?

And yet, Valjean hadn’t asked for news from the hulks.

Javert allowed his hand to trail downward. His thumb stroked Valjean’s lips again, which were slick with his own saliva. Valjean’s eyes were still resting on his, his breath coming fast—and he was still watching him with that shocked caution, as if Javert was just as unsettling to him as Valjean was to Javert.

What a strange man Valjean was, Javert caught himself thinking, then frowned at his own thoughts and dropped his hand.

What did it matter whether Valjean was pining for some youth in the hulks? He’d get over it. In any case, there was work to be done—and soon enough, Valjean would be back where he belonged, doing hard labor in the full sight of the town he had wronged. There was nothing shocking about that at all, no matter how skittish Valjean might pretend to be.

Valjean tried to keep his mind blank as he began to serve Javert his breakfast of bread and cheese, accompanied by a cup of coffee and the cold remains of yesterday’s chicken. Javert, meanwhile, had dressed, and when he came to sit down at his table, seemed to exude an aura of confidence and satisfaction.

No wonder, Valjean thought bitterly. Javert had everything he’d ever wanted now. Moreover, he could rub Valjean’s face in his own degradation whenever he chose to. And yet, it could have been worse. 

In many ways, living right beneath Javert’s watchful gaze, spending his nights in his bedroom, was harder to bear than the hulks. Yet simultaneously, it was true that this was an easier life, despite the sacrifice of his body. Here, he was still in a position to do good. He couldn’t forget that. Even in the deepest degradation, there was a blessing to be found.

He poured Javert’s coffee while Javert leaned back in his chair, watching him with a smug smile. When Valjean had finished, Javert gestured dismissively to the ground next to his chair again. Valjean sank to his knees obediently, keeping his head carefully empty. He listened to the sounds of a knife scraping across a tin plate, staring at the pattern of the wooden planks beneath his knees. He had been hungry when he went to sleep yesterday; now, with the sounds of Javert eating his breakfast, his stomach clenched painfully.

In his youth, there had been worse days. So far, he had eaten every day—and of course, he could have simply demanded his share last night in the barracks. What had happened there was a simple test; the same had happened in the hulks. A show of Valjean’s strength—just once—and the men would have retreated, the women sullenly according him his share from now on.

Still, what did it matter? The others worked hard when he did not. Moreover, he couldn’t bear the thought of them looking at him in fear, thinking him a bestial convict who was not to be provoked.

He’d had long years of respect, and that respect had tasted sweet. Even now, he couldn’t help but feel the pain of its loss, every derisive glance at him like a sharp stab in his heart. To have that respect supplanted by the respect a convict was accorded for his strength or cruelty… The thought was so abhorrent that he could not bear it. He would rather hunger than be that man again, even though everyone thought him to be.

Again his stomach clenched, and he remembered the last winter with the family he could barely recall. The endless years in the hulks had burned all memories out of his mind. He no longer remembered their faces; no, not even that of his sister. And yet he still remembered the howling of the wind, the damp cold that crept into clothes and bones—and the ever-present hunger that sat inside his chest, a giant knot of despair and need and fury as his stomach clenched around nothing but emptiness.

Somewhere above him, Javert moved. Valjean nearly flinched back when a hand touched his head once more, but he forced himself to bear the sensation. Javert’s fingers trailed lightly across his cropped hair. Valjean could smell the scent of coffee and fresh bread. He swallowed heavily, then bent his head. Javert’s fingers trailed down to his nape, his touch light and unthreatening, but even so it made Valjean’s heart pound with instinctive panic.

A moment later, Javert’s hand withdrew. When it returned, it held something. Valjean didn’t even have to turn his head to know what it was.

He hesitated, his heartbeat echoing in his ears. Then, defeated, he turned his head, his heart aching with despair as he took the morsel of bread from Javert’s fingers with his lips.

Surely Javert had to be smiling once more now. Still, the bread was good, Valjean’s hunger only increasing at this first, teasingly small bite. A moment later, Javert’s hand withdrew, only to return with another piece of bread, and Valjean, who’d already sacrificed his dignity, after all, took this as well from his fingers.

What did it matter when Javert had already taken so much—let him have his dignity as well then.

As Javert continued to eat his breakfast, his hand would reach down every now and then, feeding Valjean more pieces of bread, interspersed with the occasional chunk of cheese. It seemed that Javert had found pleasure in owning a favoured pet, just as a lady might feed a small dog at her table. The truth of that image rested bitter on his tongue—but even so, today Valjean didn’t turn away, quietly accepting what was offered to him, and bearing the touch of Javert’s fingers tracing the bristly hair on his head every now and then.

Once more Javert’s hand reached down. Valjean did not realize what it held until his lips closed around the morsel. It was a generous chunk of the cold chicken—a treat they would not have received even for their Christmas meal in the hulks.

The piece of chicken was large, and Javert kept holding on to it, so that Valjean only registered belatedly that he’d taken not only the meat, but also Javert’s fingers into his mouth. He froze when his tongue touched warm skin instead of the cold chicken. Then Javert’s thumb swiped slowly along his bottom lip, and Valjean hesitantly let his tongue lick the grease from Javert’s fingers.

Valjean’s eyes burned when Javert pulled back. Valjean swallowed mechanically, his hands tightening into fists on his thighs. Was this what was to become of him?

And yet, he was here of his own, free choice. He could have chosen to go back to Toulon, where he would have been treated with the uncaring cruelty he was accustomed to.

It was he who had chosen to submit to this. Back in Arras, he had not known what Javert would ask of him, but still—had Valjean known, and had he been offered the same choice, he would have made it again.

After all, it was only for a year or two. What was that, to submit to Javert for a year, when it saved someone he had wronged?

But even so, when Javert finally allowed Valjean to rise and clean the table, he could not shake the despair that had taken hold of him. His soul had been bought, many years ago. Javert could have his body—but never his soul.

And yet, if that was true, then why had he given in, even though it had made something in his heart ache so?

***

“Healing well,” Javert said, carefully prodding his hand, taking care not to touch the burn. “I think you can join the others today. It’s about time you made yourself useful—at least useful in ways that’ll benefit the town.” He gave Valjean a knowing look, who suffered it quietly.

Once more Javert smoothed salve over the red circle, then tied a new bandage in place around it.

“In any case, you’re off dealing with the thicket of thorns near the path to the mill. No carrying rocks today for you. Shouldn’t be a problem, even with your hand.”

Valjean inclined his head.

Javert refused to release his hand. “Don’t get any ideas,” he said in a low voice. “Someone will keep an eye on you. And I might check on you lot occasionally as well. Don’t forget that. I’ve been lenient with you so far, but if you provoke me, it’ll be the lash for you again. Are we understood?”

Valjean swallowed down the rebellious reply that had first come to his tongue. “Yes, sir.”

Javert’s smile widened. “Good.”

Once more, Javert reached out to lightly trail his hands down the back of Valjean’s head while Valjean instinctively tensed in response, his heart thudding painfully in his chest. Clenching his teeth, Valjean forced himself to bear the touch without rearing back, and after a moment, Javert at last released him and rose to start his day.

***

The thicket that grew on each side of the path that led towards the mills of Montreuil-sur-Mer had indeed grown unruly during the spring, tendrils creeping over the path. The small road was narrow, offering just enough space for one cart, and with the continued growth of the brambles, the farmers would have difficulties driving their harvest to the mills and returning with their flour.

“Good of you to join us,” one of the men said with an unfriendly look, while his wife grabbed his arm and pulled him away.

“Stay away from that one. Everyone says he’s dangerous,” she whispered.

Valjean pretended that he had not heard her words.

One of Javert’s agents had accompanied them to the area they were supposed to work on, and the other men had dragged a small cart with tools for their work.

It was easy enough to see what had to be done. In any case, it was needed work that served a purpose, both for the farmers and the mill-owners—and as Valjean had told Javert, he had been a pruner once. The work awaiting him was not unwelcome—on the contrary. A day spent out of Javert’s sight, with the sky above him, was a gift.

Without waiting for the others, Valjean took up a pair of heavy shears and set to work on where the brambles had completely taken over an opening by the side of the path. Without the thorns that blocked it, it offered just enough space that one cart could wait and let someone coming the other way pass by.

On the cart, he’d found old leather gloves to protect their hands from the worst of the thorns; even so, despite the bandage around his burned hand, it ached to grip the shears.

Valjean ignored the pain as he worked. In any case, he had known worse pain than this. The hand was healing; it would ache for another week, maybe, but Javert had been kind to spare him the heaviest work during the first few days. 

For the better part of two hours, Valjean worked silently, the sun warming his back. Soon, his shirt was soaked with sweat, sticking to his skin. It had not rained for several days, but the soil beneath the copse of thornbushes was still damp.

Every now and then, Valjean stopped to wipe his face, watching the others cutting brambles further down the road while the women piled the cuttings onto the cart, then dragging it away to empty it where the road opened onto fields.

Javert’s agent had lingered for a while, his eyes suspiciously following Valjean, but eventually he had left—although not without further admonitions.

The others were trusted to do their work on their own, with only occasional checks by the police. And of course, they had all signed themselves over into this indenture willingly—were they to run from it, a far worse fate awaited them.

Valjean’s case was different. Everyone seemed to think that he had been given an easy way out of the hulks. And of course, any other man would have run. The man Valjean had been nineteen years ago would have escaped that very first night without a second thought.

But it was true that even for him, it would be hard to run. Everyone knew him around here, and if there were ex-convicts willing to hide a man like him or furnish him with a disguise, he did not know them. 

Valjean had done his utmost to avoid all suspicion, treating those who were forced to come and present their yellow passport to him with the politeness he himself had once so sorely missed, but carefully suppressing any outward show of sympathy. To be found out to have exchanged friendly words with a former convict might have been his end—or so Valjean had feared during those years when his disguise had felt like a threadbare shirt through which surely the outlines of his old scars were still visible.

Around noon one of Javert’s men returned, inspecting the work they had done so far and dropping a satchel containing dark bread, cheese, and a handful of wizened apples onto the empty cart. Under the cold eyes of the agent, Valjean as well took his share of the food, then retreated to the other side of the path, where he’d uncovered a rock beneath the brambles which, freed from the thorns, now served as a seat.

Just when the man had left again and Valjean had followed the others further down the path to where a a rivulet was flowing nearby to quench their thirst, the sound of a rider approaching could be heard.

Thinking that it was the agent yet again—or perhaps Javert coming to check on him—Valjean followed the others back to their cart without haste, only to see to his great surprise that it was Robert who was slowly coming towards them.

The others sullenly made way for him, eyes averted, ignoring Robert’s greeting—but instead of continuing on the path down to the mills, of which Robert owned two, he chose to stop and descend.

“Good day to you, sir,” he said cheerfully, pulling off his riding gloves before holding out his hand to Valjean. “A lovely day, is it not?”

Valjean eyed Robert’s hand. His own was covered in dirt and dust, despite the gloves he had worn. He did not take it.

Nevertheless, Robert was not deterred by it. “How are you doing?” Robert asked in a gentler voice.

Valjean swallowed, his eyes going to the other indentured servants, who were watching with various degrees of curiosity and suspicion.

“I recall there was a stream nearby. My horse needs watering. Will you lead me to it?”

Valjean exhaled tiredly, then inclined his head. He knew he should have rebuffed Robert’s offer of continued friendship, but a part of him was deeply exhausted after the days with Javert, who had whittled away at what dignity he still possessed. And perhaps this was for the best. Out of earshot of the others, away from the suspicious eyes of the people of Montreuil, he could talk openly and make Robert understand that he needed to stay away from him.

“So how are you? How are you really?” Robert asked as soon as they’d left the others behind, the false cheerfulness gone.

Valjean swallowed, unexpectedly moved to hear himself addressed as vous still, and by this man to whom he had lied for so long.

“You don’t owe me anything,” Valjean sad roughly, “least of all your concern. I lied to you.”

Robert shrugged. “You weren’t much when you came to this town. Père Madeleine with his old clothes, dusty from the road, who knew neither how to ride a horse nor how to run a business. I watched you all these years. I always knew you weren’t one of the idlers who sit in the officers’ café all day, laughing at the women parading outside. You only had a little when you came here, but you were determined to use it, right from the start. And not only that—to use all your success for good. So don’t tell me I don’t know you, Valjean. Madeleine or Valjean, it makes no difference—I know you better than anyone here, I think. Better than Javert.”

Valjean stopped, helplessly raising a hand to his suddenly burning eyes. After the depths of degradation he had fallen into in Javert’s bed, to hear Robert now talk so kindly seemed nearly more than he could bear.

After a moment, Robert’s horse began to pull impatiently on the reins, and Valjean released them when he saw that they had nearly made it to the stream.

The animal took two steps forward, then thrust its nose into the water with a satisfied snort. Valjean watched it drink deeply, too embarrassed to meet Robert’s eyes.

“I’ve been thinking of a way to help,” Robert said slowly. “Javert’s a problem, of course, but we all know that he has higher aspirations than ending his career in our town. He’s eager to go to Paris. But who knows how long that will take. Perhaps a legal way could be found to at least transfer his power over you to another…”

“You can’t,” Valjean said sharply, reaching out to grab Robert’s hands, the dirt on his own fingers forgotten for a moment. “Promise me you won’t. With me gone, you have a good chance to be suggested as my successor. There’s already a mark on you now; people know we were friendly. You can’t throw that chance away. Think of the good you could do for this town.”

Robert frowned and shook his head, although he didn’t pull his hand from Valjean’s grasp. “I couldn’t,” he said. “I’ve never wanted it; you know that. I don’t care for the politics of—”

“Ah, but for a man who does not care for such things, you ran a fine campaign for me.” There was a faint smile on Valjean’s face as he remembered Robert’s enthusiasm. “You’d do well, Robert. I know you would.”

“You know, all these years, I wondered about you. I’ve considered you a friend, but there was so much you kept private. A man has a right to his secrets, of course, and those who keep them often have a reason for that. I didn’t want to ask for what you obviously were not willing to share…”

Valjean released Robert’s hand, averting his eyes in shame. “Now you know why.”

“Yes,” Robert agreed calmly. “And I understand why you preferred your solitude.”

“After all you know about me, you still want me to be your friend?” Valjean asked in despair. “I stole from a child! I spent nineteen years in the hulks!”

“And for as long as I’ve known you, your pockets were full of coin for every hungry child in this town. And every time a little Savoyard came to the town, you asked if his name was Petit-Gervais, and sent him away with a five franc piece.” Robert gazed at him levelly. “These things I know about you, Jean Valjean. These are the actions of a man I was proud to call friend.”

“Then you believe redemption is possible even for a man like me?”

“How could I not, with you before me?”

Valjean shuddered at that pronouncement, clenching his burned hand. “If you knew… The things I’ve said, the things I’ve thought… And Fantine, I sent her away—out of selfish fear, even though I knew she had a child.”

“The tale made the rounds in the town as well,” Robert said. “It sounded different then. I thought it was not like you to send a woman away—but when Madame Victurnien told us that Fantine had abandoned her child, refusing to send money to see her fed and clothed, I understood.”

“When I stole,” Valjean murmured hoarsely, “a long time ago, it was just some bread. My nieces and nephews… It was winter, and we were starving…”

Robert stepped closer and rested his hand on his shoulder. “Yes. I thought it had to be something like that.”

Ashamed, Valjean shook his head. “You don’t understand. After that, after the hulks, I stole from a child. I’ve spent so many years trying to make up for it, and yet, when God gave me a chance to save Fantine and her child, my selfishness won. This is the man I am, Robert. This is what I am. I was never worthy of your friendship. And if you continue searching me out, your reputation will suffer worse than it already has.”

“Yes,” Robert mused slowly, “that will be a problem.”

Even though it was he who had suggested it, Valjean felt a sting in his heart at losing the only man who still looked at him with respect in his eyes.

“If the town suggests me as your successor to the king,” Robert said, “I would be the one in charge of you and Fantine. With Fantine, it’s easy; it’s simply a matter of money, since her crime was debt. With you, it will be more difficult. Still, it would be within my power then to, say, send you to labor on one of the farms I own. I could buy some small estate and send you to work there. You’d owe me nothing, my friend. The farm would be a gift to you—only officially, it would be mine, and you’d run it in my name. Or, if you prefer, I could find some reason to send you to do work for me in Paris…”

Valjean didn’t know what to say. The offer overwhelmed him. After the nights in Javert’s apartment, after having known himself utterly defeated, it seemed impossible that he should be allowed to lead a life without chains again, to be his own master, to rise and sleep and eat when he wanted, to never feel unkind hands touch him again.

Then Valjean smiled, slowly and sadly. “It’s impossible. Your reputation would never recover. You could go far—”

“I don’t want to go far,” Robert said with sudden passion. “Here, in this town, I had everything I ever wanted. I was the sole heir of my family’s business, with a nephew who is a bright, good lad who might one day step into my shoes, and with—with you to be my friend…”

There was a sadness in the way Robert looked at him that Valjean hadn’t seen before. Or rather, he thought suddenly, could it be that he had never taken notice of it before?

Could it be that Robert…?

The thought was unsettling in a way Valjean couldn’t explain, as if Javert had found a way to taint even the single, fragile friendship he’d managed to find in his life.

He had been silent too long, he realized all of a sudden. Robert’s face fell, and before his friend could turn away, Valjean found himself taking a step forward, gripping his shoulder.

Robert was nothing like Javert. He’d never been. Robert had been Valjean’s friend, a patient, quiet man who was capable of sudden outbursts of action and passion if something aroused his interest: a new development in the sciences, a new book, Valjean’s projects of charity, and indeed his idea to have Madeleine’s name put forth for the appointment as mayor. Valjean did not doubt that Robert, too, had been behind the offer of the Legion of Honor.

“Your friendship meant more than you can ever know,” Valjean said, choking on the words. “But you must take care of yourself now. You can’t be seen with me. I refuse to be your downfall. Goodbye, Robert.”

The palomino was restless, his golden head appearing above his door as soon as Javert entered the stable. His ears pointing forward, he snorted, his hoof hitting wood as he pawed at the door.

“Easy,” Javert said, holding out his hand. The beast snorted again, but then trustfully lowered his head to search Javert’s palm with his lips. Once more, Javert ran an admiring hand down his arched neck, feeling powerful muscles flex beneath the shining fur.

“You want to go outside? Why not. You need to run, and I need to check on your former master.”

There was something rather appealing to the notion of riding up to Valjean seated on his former steed—the finest horse in the department.

“You know,” he told the golden gelding in a low voice, “if it were my choice, I’d keep you as I keep him. You’d be a lot less trouble, for one thing. You do what you were bred to do, and you do it gladly. No need for the whip. He, on the other hand…”

For a moment, Javert thought of the broad back again, marked by the whip, those strong haunches, the firm, round buttocks, and had to swallow as he imagined trailing a riding crop over them.

“Well, in any case, he’d deserve it, whereas you don’t need it.”

The gelding lightly butted his chest, and Javert laughed.

“I see we are agreed in that.”

Half an hour later, the steed was racing along the path between the fields to the north of the town, his mane and tail fluttering in the wind like a standard of pale gold, as fast as Javert’s own horse, and tireless.

There was, unfortunately, no way Javert could afford to purchase him for himself. Especially not if M. Robert was set on bidding against him.

Still, for as long as the investigations continued, the horse would remain in his possession. And who knew. Perhaps, if Paris were to desire to reward him—giving a horse the state had spent no coin on was a far likelier outcome than the promotion to the Prefecture itself that he desired.

Today, the group of indentured servants been sent to mend a path that stretched to the north of the town. It ran past the Canche, where last year’s rainy autumn and severe winter had loosened stones, which had at last come sliding down in the spring, making the passage more difficult for travelers and threatening further mudslides during the coming autumn.

Javert slowed the horse to a walk when he came upon the group, taking note of how Valjean was working by himself with apparently no eyes for what was happening around him. Valjean was using a pickaxe on the largest boulders that had come down before carrying the smaller rocks they split into towards a pile by the side of a rivulet, which flowed on the other side of the path.

Further ahead, where Valjean must have already cleared away the heavier rocks, men and women were digging, little by little liberating the path from the muddy soil that had come down together with the rocks.

Valjean was dirty, his blouse and trousers the same muddy brown as his hands. When he paused for a moment, setting the pickax aside to wipe tiredly at his face and leaving another smudge of mud on the face that had once stared at him so impertinently across the mayor’s desk, Javert nudged the gelding’s side and rode up to him.

Valjean looked up, alerted no doubt by the sound of hoofbeats. Javert could see the moment realization hit him—but even though his eyes widened and his mouth tightened, Valjean remained silent, taking off his brimmed cap when Javert halted the horse in front of him.

The Spanish gelding snorted and shook his head as if pleased by the run they’d had, then stretched his head to curiously nuzzle at Valjean’s muddied hand.

“Doré,” Valjean murmured, then added in apology, “I have nothing for you.”

Hesitantly, he reached out to run his hand down the gelding’s elegant head, then gave Javert a cautious look.

“You’re dirty,” Javert said.

Valjean was silent for a moment, while Javert realized that his words made no sense. Of course Valjean was dirty.

“Do you want me to wash, sir?” Valjean asked at last, still cautious.

Javert shook his head, suddenly angry at himself. The gelding pointed his ears backward, muscles bunching beneath him as the beast pawed at the ground, and Javert forced himself to loosen his grip on the reins until the horse calmed again.

Javert scoffed. “You’re here to work. You’ll wash when you’re done. I won’t have you dragging your dirt into my rooms.”

Valjean inclined his head in assent, although his face seemed to have reddened.

Still annoyed at himself for some reason he could not name, Javert let his eyes sweep along the path. He’d allocated them to this task for the week; only three days left, which meant they should be past the halfway point now.

He narrowed his eyes at where the other workers were watching him from a distance, further ahead—or rather, behind Valjean, who, it seemed, went first. Surely it was not unreasonable to expect four people to hold pace with a single man, especially when that man did the heaviest work?

Out of the lot of them, he’d expected Valjean to cause trouble. Now, he threw his reins at Valjean before he dismounted, straightening his coat and making certain that his pistols where in reach before he nodded at the path.

“Walk me through your work.”

Again Valjean gave him a look of wary surprise, as if he were the one who had to fear a trap. Nevertheless, he did as commanded, wiping at the sweat and dried mud on his face as he led Javert past the part he had already cleared from the large boulders. Given the hours still left in the day, Valjean might make it to where a willow grew on the other side of the path by the rivulet—not where Javert had expected them to be by this point in the week. But then, he had also assumed that the work would be shared, with at least another man to help Valjean with the task of rock-breaking.

For Valjean to work alone, he could find no fault in his work—indeed, he was faster than Javert would have assumed from a man doing that work on his own.

That, at least, was as it should be. Valjean was used to the back-breaking labor of the hulks, and his strength had not left him even after all those soft years as mayor. One could not forget that this labor was a punishment, and thus Valjean’s work was not something he should be commended for, but simply a part of the reparations he owed the town of Montreuil-sur-Mer.

Still, even if Valjean did the work he was tasked with, others did not, and Javert, who had not expected rebellion from this quarter, felt his jaw tighten as they came upon the group of workers who’d abandoned their labor at his approach.

“Well?” he demanded. “Don’t just stare at me. I expected to see progress—the path should be clear up to that willow over there by now. If you think that you can sit idle as soon as my back is turned, this won’t end well for you. If this road isn’t clear by Saturday, I’ll have you work Sunday too.”

“That’s not fair,” one of the women cried—Fantine, who’d before thought she could dupe him with her woeful tales of a child without father. No, it was no surprise at all that it should come to this. He shouldn’t have expected better from a group of thieves and immoral women.

“We work as hard as we can—it’s not possible to go faster when there is so much—”

Javert took a step forward, staring at Fantine who refused to back away, her eyes blazing even though her cheeks were flecked with mud as well, and the shawl that covered her hair turned brown with dirt and dust.

“Is that so?” he said pleasantly. “And why is it then that one single man, doing the hardest work, is so much faster than four of you, doing the easier task of cleaning up after him?”

“Easy? Ha!” the second woman cried, turning to glare at Valjean. “If his task’s really that hard, then why is he so fast?”

“He’s claimed the easy task for himself, just to make us look bad,” her husband added.

“If you think that shoveling this mud is so easy, why don’t you try it yourself,” Fantine spat, then whirled around again to point a furious finger at Valjean. “Better yet, let him try it and see for yourself just how slow he’ll be.”

Javert chuckled, entertained by her fury. Here, at least, was one person who’d seen through the false mayor’s mask of piety and charity long before the other inhabitants of the town. There was no love lost between them—a fact, he had to admit, that amused him, especially given how it was Valjean who had pretended to act out of charity in Arras to save this woman’s child.

Of course, it had always been obvious that Valjean had seen a way to escape the hulks by offering himself up to indenture. Still, that made no difference, for the result was the same: Valjean was where he belonged, doing hard labor, right beneath Javert’s eyes.

“I think not,” he said slowly, enjoying this little altercation.

It was rewarding, in a way, that he’d been right about one thing. Tear Valjean’s mask away, and he was no longer the charitable, kind man beloved by all who met him. These men and women who came from that same place of criminality and ill morals that had bred Valjean knew well enough that he was one of their own and treated him accordingly. More surprising, perhaps, was that this should affect Valjean so. Given his strength and notoriety and his past in the hulks, Valjean should have ruled over this little band of petty criminals. And yet, here he was, remaining silent in the face of their accusations.

Even more intriguing, he seemed to be affected by their words, for his face had paled now and he was staring at the ground.

Strange that he did not assert himself. For what reason? Perhaps Valjean believed that to let one of the other men take the lead would draw attention away from himself. A plan that made a certain sense, Javert had to admit, although so far, Valjean had appeared unassuming, quiet and obedient in Javert’s quarters for the most part, and unexpectedly responsive in his bed. Surely Valjean did not think that Javert could be fooled into believing the other men to be more dangerous than Jean Valjean, a man from the hulks?

Contrary to what he’d once believed, Valjean wasn’t stupid. Short-sighted, yes, and arrogant—after all, he’d continued to taunt Javert from his office, rather than finding one of the myriad reasons that could have been used to sack a man of Javert’s background from his post, and such a well-paid one at that that it would have been no problem at all to quickly find a less dangerous successor.

“If you think that his work is so easy,” Javert declared, still smiling at the group of workers, “then it seems there’s a change in order.”

He let his eyes trail over them, staring at each dirty, tired face until they averted their eyes, one by one. Only Fantine, at the end of the line, kept glaring at him—no doubt used to getting away with the coquettish ways of young women. She’d learn soon enough that her wiles wouldn’t work on him.

“You,” he said at last with deep satisfaction. “Why don’t you swing the pickax for the rest of the day, Fantine Thibault? Shouldn’t be a problem for you to clear the path up to that willow, since this is the easiest part of your work. Isn’t that right? And if you’re not done by the time one of my men comes for you, you’ll stay out here until nightfall.”

“There is no need for that,” Valjean said to his right.

“You will be silent unless asked a question.” Javert kept his eyes on Fantine, who was still staring at him as if she longed to jump at him and bury her nails in his face.

Well, let her try. Javert had always known that sooner or later, someone in this little group of thieves and criminals would rebel—he’d just thought that it would be Valjean instead of the pretty woman of the group.

“Sir, I can break the rocks and help with the—”

Furiously, Javert whirled around at Valjean’s repeated interruption, and Valjean fell silent at his glare.

“Did you not hear me?” Javert snapped. “You will be silent, Jean Valjean, or you will regret it. Now, Fantine Thibault, take up that pickax. Break that rock over there. And do it fast, or there will be no dinner for any of you tonight.”

At that pronouncement, the other men began to mutter to each other in low voices, although they, too, fell silent when Javert turned his eyes on them.

Fantine meanwhile, still glaring at him with the fury of a trapped cat, clenched her jaw and went right up to Valjean, snatching the pickax from his hands without a single word.

Javert’s lips twitched as she couldn’t quite suppress a shocked gasp at the weight of it—but instead of admitting her error and begging for his forgiveness, she gritted her teeth and dragged it with her to the large boulder Javert had pointed at.

Javert’s smile widened as he watched her try to raise the pickax. She’d clearly never used such an object before. Well, that was only too likely—she’d claimed to be a seamstress, and given that she’d hidden a child away, had surely earned some money on the side, as such pretty women were wont to do.

Javert was almost impressed that she was either furious or obstinate enough to raise the tool to the height of her head, then let it come down on the rock.

Instead of breaking the rock, the pickax rebounded and flew from her slender fingers.

Javert chuckled at the sound of fury that escaped her. Still, instead of returning to tearfully apologize to him, as was to be expected from women like her, she went to retrieve the tool, then raised it again with shaking arms, gripping it so tightly that her fingers turned white.

This time, she managed to hold onto it when it came down. Instead of splitting the rock, it glanced off the boulder and ended up buried in the soil next to it.

“Well? Go on,” Javert said with an pointed look at the sun. “Only a few hours left. I want this path cleared up to the willow. There’s no time for your dawdling.”

Fantine did not even bother to disguise the hate in her eyes as she glared at him, then tried to lift the pickax again. She was tiring, Javert thought; her arms were beginning to tremble. He was almost amused to see her game last so long.

“That’s enough,” Valjean said sharply when she lifted the pickax, only for the tool to slip from her hands. “There’s no need to torment her.”

“You will be silent, Jean Valjean,” Javert said furiously, taking a step forward.

“Let her be.” Valjean refused to budge, still staring at him, his chest heaving when Javert reached out to grip the front of his blouse.

Javert exhaled, feeling excitement unfurl inside him. Here it came at last, the event he’d known would happen all along: Valjean pulling at the chain, his true nature unleashed, which he’d hidden so carefully behind the mask of the kind mayor for so long.

“Truly?” Javert allowed his lips to curl with distaste. “You want the lash for some whore?”

Behind him, he heard the furious sound Fantine made, but he disregarded her—for in front of him, Valjean’s face had heated, the eyes that had so often been carefully averted in simulated surrender now blazing at him with rage.

“Her name is Fantine!”

Valjean had raised his voice so that the final word came out as a furious cry, and Javert, who’d gripped Valjean’s blouse all this time, felt the strong body tremble with barely contained emotion.

“That was the last time you ever raised your voice at me.” Javert tightened his hand to pull Valjean even closer, then pushed him back as hard as he could.

Valjean seemed taken by surprise by his action, stumbling backwards a few steps, then caught himself just in time before he could trip over one of the rocks. Gritting his teeth, Javert took a few steps towards the rivulet by the other side of the path. With one jump, he crossed it, then strode towards a tree that stood there.

Without speaking a word, Javert drew a knife from his pocket. He gripped the first green branch that looked sturdy enough for his purpose and cut it off. It had a pleasant weight to it; when he tested it, it cut through the air with a promising hiss.

It would do. For now, it would do.

Before he could gather his thoughts, Valjean found himself gripped by the collar of his blouse and shoved against one of those large boulders that had come down together with the mud from the steep incline that bordered the other side of the path. This rock still leaned upright against the incline, coming up to Valjean’s chest. Tall as it was, it was flat enough that Valjean might have broken it with a few well-aimed hits with the pickax.

Now, instead, he was forced against it—the switch in Javert’s hand making it only too clear what was to come. Heat rushed to Valjean’s face when he realized belatedly that the other men and women would serve as their audience. 

Javert lost no time. With one hand, he opened two of the buttons that held Valjean’s trousers closed, then impatiently yanked them down. Next, he shoved Valjean’s tattered shirttails out of the way. Valjean shivered at the sensation of cold air against bared flesh—bared not only to the elements and Javert’s merciless hand, but also to the eyes of the men and women who had labored beside him.

With his heart pounding in his chest, he contemplated begging Javert for the mercy of having this done with in private—but in his heart he knew that Javert wouldn’t grant such a request. What, after all, were the sensibilities of a convict?

He clenched his teeth and closed his eyes, surrendering himself to the inevitable, his hands holding on to the rock. Then the switch came down for the first time, painting a line of fire across his buttocks.

The suddenness of it was enough to tear a gasp from his throat. Even now, despite the shock of it, he knew that Javert was letting him off with an easy punishment—a punishment that would bruise little more than his pride. To be disciplined like a child, even though it happened at the iron hand of Javert, surely was nothing to someone who’d known the agony of the hulks.

And yet, to be chastised so in front of witnesses, unmasked in front of these women for what he truly was in Javert’s eyes—a whim, a toy to torment, of no more consequence to Javert than a little dog on a lady’s lap, to be fed treats at his table one day only to feel the cane the next…

Again the switch came down. The springy wood landed with skill and efficiency, bruising tender skin this time: the backside of his thighs, which had been spared the bite of the whip those many years ago.

Valjean tightened his fingers around the rock that bore his weight, gasping for breath as he choked back a groan. The next time, Javert aimed the switch at his buttocks again, and Valjean winced when he swiftly followed it with another blow. This was nothing like the brutal whippings he’d known—but even so, the pain was real, the hot, burning impact of each sharp blow driving tears to his eyes.

Something in his chest felt tight and heavy. There was pressure building behind his eyes. He had trouble breathing, his throat closing around something that he tried to swallow down, again and again, as the blows kept raining down onto his defenseless skin.

“I have warned you,” Javert said, breathing heavily as he paused for a moment. “I told you what I expect from you: the respect due to a man of my station. You, a convict, to raise your voice at me, the chief of police of this fine town? You’ve given yourself airs, Valjean. I think you’ve come to believe in your own little game. But I know the truth of what you are, and by God, I’ll teach you, no matter what it takes.”

Another blow followed that declaration, Javert delivering his punishment with renewed vigor. The next blow, falling upon the tender crease of where Valjean’s buttocks met his thighs, and which was already lined with red welts, forced a choked sob from him. 

Javert continued until Valjean’s backside was on fire, his thighs smarting, the thing inside Valjean’s chest grown so heavy that he thought he’d choke on it.

The next time Javert paused, Valjean could feel a finger grazing a red-hot welt, lingering as Valjean trembled.

“And do you think you’ve had enough now?” Javert demanded. “Or do you still think you can shout at me?”

There was something frighteningly familiar in the roughness in Javert’s voice—a trace of the hunger Valjean had to come to know well, and which he could now also feel in the hand that curled around his thigh, the thumb that stroked a burning welt with the same covetousness with which Valjean had seen Javert caress his Spanish gelding.

“No, sir,” he said, choking on the words.

Javert turned him around.

“Then pull up your clothes and get back to work,” Javert murmured. “And tonight, perhaps we shall have another conversation about your manners.”

Valjean swallowed thickly, his eyes still burning with unshed tears. Hastily, he pulled up his trousers, only his shirt preserving his modesty in from of their audience.

“I’m not an animal to break—”

Javert exhaled in amusement. He dropped the switch to grab hold of Valjean’s chin, forcing him to meet his eyes.

“Are you not?” Therewas a smile on Javert's lips. “Your horse, Jean Valjean, is a beast without reason, and yet it obeys readily—eagerly even—willingly submitting to the bit and the spurs. It takes a lump of sugar from my hand, it comes when it is called, and will run for hours for no reward but a word of praise. For all of its efforts, it is housed and fed. It doesn’t fight the reins, it submits itself willingly to my mastery—and yet, do we not call it a noble beast? Look at it, Valjean. Is it not true that this is the finest, proudest horse in the entire department?”

His eyes still burning, Valjean turned his head towards where they had left Doré. The Spanish gelding had grazed on the narrow strip of grass that grew between the path and the rivulet. Now he raised his head, his ears curiously coming forward, his proud neck arching—as graceful as a statue of Bucephalus, a horse fit to carry a general into battle.

“Is that what you want me to be?”

Javert watched him without answering, but in the rapid rhythm of his breathing and the heat of his gaze, Valjean could see that his punishment had stirred something within Javert.

Valjean gritted his teeth, his buttocks and thighs still smarting. “Yes. That’s what I am to you.” 

His words got him a low laugh in response.

“No. That’s not what you are—but what you might one day be. For all your fine promises, Jean Valjean, you can’t help your nature, can you? But I’ll yet see you tamed. Whether it is with lumps of sugar or the whip—well, that is your own choice. But you’d do well to remember your promises. You’re quick to beg, to promise, to swear all sorts of things to save some miserable creature. But when the time comes to pay, where are your promises then?”

For a moment, Valjean felt anger rise up in him again, heat coloring his words. “I went to your bed willingly these many days, did I not?”

Javert’s smile widened, his eyes flashing dangerously.

“Careful,” he warned in an intimate murmur, stepping even closer to grip the collar of Valjean’s shirt. “I know it’ll take a long time to beat this lesson into you, but all the same, it won’t do to aggravate me needlessly. It’s the switch today; it need not be the whip tomorrow.”

Panting, Valjean stared into Javert’s merciless eyes—and then, little by little, knowing the futility of his struggle, he reined in the rage within him born of helpless despair. He drew in another deep breath, his chest aching to see the smile on Javert’s face widen knowingly. Then he bent his head, averting his eyes, which burned again with unshed tears as he thought of Fantine in his place.

“There, that’s better.” There was the rumble of approval in Javert’s voice.

“I’m sorry,” Valjean said hollowly. “It won’t happen again, sir.”

“Won’t it?” Javert said thoughtfully. “Well, we shall see. Now take up your pickax again and get back to work. I assume that little minx has learned her lesson by now—as you have. And tonight, I expect the service that is my due. It shouldn’t be a hardship, given just how willing you’ve been so far?”

“No, sir,” Valjean breathed around the heaviness still stuck in his throat.

His smile widening, Javert leaned in. “Welts or no, I intend to put you to use just as I do with that horse. And you’ll be just as biddable as that creature, won’t you, when I ride you hard?”

His face hot, Valjean nodded miserably. “Yes, sir.”

Even the pain of his punishment was forgotten when Javert at last stepped backward; the shame of having been disciplined in the full view of the others was too acute.

Waiting respectfully in the distance while Javert had shoved Valjean over to the large rock, they were certainly too far away to have overheard their conversation. And yet, did it truly need words to understand what he was to Javert?

In either case, all of them had seen Javert strip him, just as he had been observed during the nightmarish journey to Toulon long ago. He did not doubt that on their faces, he would have found the same cruel amusement he had seen then.

He did not meet their eyes when he returned to his work. Despite the constant, dull throb of pain that constantly reminded him of Javert’s mastery over him, he worked tirelessly, foregoing now any breaks when before, he had paused every now and then to drink from the rivulet and pour cold water over his neck. Instead of using the pickax to break the large boulders apart before moving on, he took hold of the splintered rocks and carried them to the pile the others had made.

By the time one of Javert’s men came in the evening, they had progressed—not as far as Javert had demanded of them, but if they managed to keep this pace for the remaining days, the work could be finished in time, Valjean thought.

One of the men gave Valjean a weary nod when he came to put down his pickax on the cart—Caillot the thief, while Fasquel and his wife still kept a wary distance from him.

When he hesitantly dared to raise his eyes to Fantine, he saw that her eyes were still blazing at him.

“Don’t think you can change my opinion of you,” she declared when he passed her. “It’s too late for that. I know men like you, trying to curry favor; well, I’ve seen enough of men. You’ve shown me what you are that day in the factory. This doesn’t change anything.”

Quietly, Valjean inclined his head. It was not, in any case, why he had thought to defend her; he knew well enough that every single misery that had befallen her since that day was his fault.

Just as quietly, he returned with the others to the barracks where he washed and dressed in clean clothes, ignoring the hot, swollen welts that made their presence known at every movement.

When he entered Javert’s apartment at last, he found Javert—his master, he thought bitterly, just as he was Doré’s master now—seated at his desk, his coat already hung by the door, a glass of wine in Javert’s hand as he studied the letters before him.

Javert looked up and watched him for a moment, then nodded for Valjean to follow. They entered Javert’s bedroom, where the washbasin was prepared, and Valjean thought he understood. It was very early for Javert to retire—but then, it was not sleep that was on Javert’s mind certainly, not after his words about putting Valjean to use and the heat sparked in Javert’s blood by the punishment.

He reached out for Javert’s jacket, but Javert stalled his hand. Quietly, strangely nervous, Valjean watched as Javert’s fingers closed around his wrist, Javert watching him with unreadable eyes. A moment later, Javert’s other hand came up; Valjean hunched his shoulders, but submitted mutely when Javert’s fingers teased at his lips, allowing them to slide into his mouth where they rested on his tongue. Valjean could taste Javert; his skin was faintly salty, tasting clean, with a trace of the dusty papers he’d handled.

“There,” Javert murmured, his thumb stroking along Valjean’s jaw. “You know how to be good when you want to be. You’re not quite the brute you were in the hulks anymore. You’ve given yourself an education, they say; you’ve devoted yourself to charity; everyone in this town used to praise your name. Such a kind, generous, gentle man, this Père Madeleine. And here, in this bedroom, you’re as obedient as that magnificent beast you bought. But that’s not the entire truth. We both know the true nature that was always hidden behind your acts, and today, it has come out, as we both knew it would. But I tell you this, Valjean: I’ll crush that rebellious spirit. I’ll have you as obedient as that gelding before the year is over. And then, your promise to surrender yourself willingly will at last be true.”

Valjean couldn’t reply, Javert’s fingers still filling his mouth. His heart beat faster as he thought of another promise Javert had made—the price of sleeping in Javert’s bed, which he did not doubt Javert would collect someday.

Almost, he wished Javert had never given him the choice; how much easier would it be had Javert simply grabbed hold of his hair and pushed his head down then and there, forcing him to learn that bitter lesson and swallow even those bitterest dregs of his degradation!

And yet, instead of pushing him over to the bed, Javert released him a moment later. Calmly, he took up the fine Marseille soap, the cube worn into a smooth ball by now, and began to lather up his hands.

Before Valjean even had time to understand what was happening, one of Javert’s hands curved around his neck in a firm grasp. Two fingers of Javert’s other hand slid into his mouth, scrubbing firmly over his tongue while Valjean froze in shock, his eyes tearing up at the acrid taste of soap that filled his mouth all of a sudden.

“You will learn this lesson,” Javert said firmly. “You will not raise your voice at me, or I swear I will beat that lesson into you by whatever means necessary. Are we understood?”

His eyes burning with shame and humiliation and the despairing rage that still lived in a dark corner of heart, Valjean forced himself to nod. Javert’s fingers were still deep in his mouth, his other hand holding his nape in a firm grip, as one might hold a puppy or a small child.

“This is not the worst I can do to you. You know that very well,” Javert said softly, staring into Valjean’s eyes as he pressed down on his tongue. “You’d do well to remember this.”

With those words, he finally released Valjean, his fingers slipping from his mouth. Javert turned to wash his hands as if nothing had come to pass, while Valjean retched and coughed, helpless tears of shame burning in his eyes.

This was nothing compared to the hulks. To shout at a guard—he’d have tasted the whip for that. They’d have laid open his back rather than giving him the chastisement reserved for an unruly child.

Valjean knew he should be grateful. He knew that Javert, of all people, had little reason to be merciful. Even so, knowing himself to be little more than a toy Javert kept for his own amusement was, in a way, harder to bear than the number he’d worn for so long.

In Toulon, he’d been nothing. In Toulon, he’d had his rage to cling to, the endless anger that sustained him while the world around him retreated until time itself seemed a foreign concept in that eternity of suffering.

Here, with Javert, there was none of that escape to be found. He didn’t have his rage to cling to, no number to slowly vanish behind. Javert had made Valjean’s position only too clear. 

Javert wanted him willingly—he wanted absolute surrender, wanted him to submit like a horse broken in by Javert’s own hand. And even if it was only for a year or two until Fantine was free, Javert’s grip was so firm, the surrender he demanded so absolute, that Valjean was terrified of yielding to it.

Even now, the thought of giving himself up to the absolute of such a demand was tempting him. Something within him was tired; it wanted to give up the fight and yield to that promise of rest. It scared him, more than any of Javert’s threats, for he knew that if he were to let go of what remained of him, if he were to give Javert all he asked for, there might be nothing left of himself when his time was up.

There were lines around Valjean’s mouth and shadows beneath his eyes that spoke of suffering, his lips pressed together as he laid Javert’s table for dinner with all the noble grace of a martyr.

Even now, it made Javert smile to see it. To think that a man who had spent nineteen years in the hulks would look at him with such shame-filled eyes after a punishment that was nothing, compared to what a convict would have received! If he’d wanted, he could have given Valjean something to truly cry about. They both knew that.

Once Javert had taken his seat, he gestured for Valjean to kneel. Valjean moved more slowly than usual, but he obeyed readily enough, even though the welts had to smart.

That thought was pleasing as well.

Today, there was rabbit on Javert’s plate, stewed with cheap wine and carrots. The stew was rich, gleaming with golden fat. Valjean had filled Javert’s cup with wine, lit a fire that warmed his apartment, and placed a candle on his table. In its flickering light, Javert began to eat, filled with deep satisfaction as he thought of the miserable meals and accommodation he’d had in Toulon—better than that of the convicts, it was true, but far from the amenities the man now kneeling by his side had provided for him here in Montreuil.

Javert took hold of his glass again to take a sip of wine. The wine, too, was far better than the cheap vinegar they’d shared in the guards’ quarters. Indeed, it was better than what Javert should have been able to afford as a newly-arrived inspector in this town. The vintage was heady, rich fruit bursting on his tongue that reminded him of the sultry summers of the south. A wine fit for the table of the Chief. A wine fit for the table of the man who’d dismissed him so brusquely in Paris.

Life in Montreuil was good—but it would not do to take the amenities of his post here for granted. Who knew how long he’d keep this position. And of course, the next mayor would certainly not be as generous as Madeleine.

Still, it was a taste of what was to come. There was no reason at all why Javert should not end his days in Paris with men under his command, an apartment twice as large as this, a carriage whenever he wanted one, clothes that instantly demanded the respect due his position , and a table set with good food and good wine.

Taking another sip, he reached out with his left hand to trail his fingers lightly over Valjean’s shaved head. Again Valjean flinched instinctively, and Javert smiled, following an old scar left by a dull razor with the pad of his thumb.

No, Valjean had very little reason to complain about his treatment. Any other man would have surely devoted himself to Javert with the utmost servility. But not Valjean. No, Valjean had to turn even this into a struggle for dominance.

Well, let him fight against the hand that held the reins. Valjean wasn’t stupid; his years in Montreuil had proved it. Sooner or later, he’d let go of his misguided pride and surrender to the inevitable.

Valjean kept his head bent as Javert stroked him slowly, enjoying the feeling of the vulnerable skull beneath his hand. At last, he reached out for Valjean’s chin, tilting his head up before he held out his glass.

For a moment, he could see the fight going on behind Valjean’s eyes—and he could also see the moment he had won.

Javert had calculated right: Valjean would be grateful for a chance to finally wash the bite of the soap from his mouth. His eyes still wary, Valjean accepted Javert’s cup, then took a sip of wine. Javert curved his hand around Valjean’s nape, allowing it to rest there. Valjean’s eyes remained on him with all the wariness of a wild animal as he took another sip, and then, as Javert’s thumb gently stroked along his warm skin, a third.

Finally Javert took hold of the glass once more and returned it to the table before he leaned down, his thumb tilting up Valjean’s chin so that he could kiss him.

Once more Valjean submitted silently, his lips parting obediently for Javert’s tongue—a far cry from the man who’d opposed him earlier today. Valjean’s mouth was warm and sweet with the wine, and Javert lingered, savoring this taste of what he knew he’d one day have—Valjean’s absolute surrender, all thought of rebellion driven from him. Whether it was the taste of sugar or the taste of the whip that would bring it about, well, that was Valjean’s choice. Still, Javert had certainly illustrated his point now. And given the way Valjean yielded himself up with such docility, he did not think it had failed to make an impact.

Javert licked his lips when he finally released Valjean. At last, he began to eat. The braised rabbit was tender, falling apart on the bone, the carrots sweet. He tore the bread into pieces to mop up the gleaming, rich juices, making a contended sound.

Throughout his meal, Valjean remained quietly and obediently on his knees beside him. When Javert at last held out a piece of bread to his lips, Valjean took it from his fingers just as quietly. Javert followed it up with more bread, the occasional carrot, and then a piece of the tender, wine-stained rabbit. Valjean’s lips parted for every morsel, accepting everything Javert chose to feed him—and if it was not the grateful humility yet that Javert knew he would one day see, it was a first step towards it.

For now, it was enough to see Valjean submit to his will, like a horse that had finally tired of its futile fight against the spurs and reins.

Javert finished his rabbit, then took another drink of his wine, finishing his glass. After he returned it to the table, he reached out and dragged the tip of his finger through the glistening juices that had remained on his plate.

He offered his finger to Valjean’s lips. There was the barest moment of hesitation, little more than a tremulous exhalation against his finger, before Valjean’s lips closed around him, the heat of Valjean’s tongue rasping against his skin. Javert lingered for a moment, longer than would have been necessary to let Valjean clean his finger, enjoying the careful, hesitant way in which Valjean sucked on the digit. Valjean’s mouth was warm and soft, his tongue for the first time actively trying to draw him in deeper instead of quietly submitting to his kiss.

Javert dragged his thumb over Valjean’s bottom lip in approval. He didn’t speak when he finally released him. There was no reason to gloat now. For now, it was enough to have won this fight. He didn’t doubt that further confrontations would follow—he didn’t doubt that he would need more than just a bar of soap—but for today, it was enough.

Once it was time to retire for the night, Valjean seemed just as subdued as he followed him into his bedroom, as if their earlier confrontation on the path near the mills had never happened at all. Yet again, Valjean stripped at no more than a nod from Javert—and then, drawing in a shaky breath like a skittish horse, he drew off his shirt, placing himself on Javert’s bed without any encouragement from Javert.

Javert watched him, a smile playing on his lips. Was the hesitancy a game? Had Valjean, perhaps correctly, assumed that it would please Javert to feel that he was taming him with his own hand? Had Valjean feared that Javert wouldn’t enjoy an experienced man of the hulks; had he thought that Javert might enjoy the illusion of being the first to bend that proud neck to his will?

The idea caused a spark of heat within him, imagining the sounds Valjean might have made the very first night he was penetrated, learning to yield himself to the needs of another. Javert felt himself stiffen in his trousers at the thought. He could imagine it only too well; he did not think the sounds would have been all that different from the soft, overwhelmed gasps that had fled Valjean’s throat that night Javert had first claimed his due.

When he joined Valjean on his bed, Javert was thrumming with need, his arousal hard and aching.

“Turn around,” he said, and watched as Valjean obeyed.

Before him, lines of red crossed the back of Valjean’s thighs and his buttocks. The welts looked tender; they were still a bright red, the skin raised. In contrast, the soft skin of Valjean’s inner thighs and the dusky cleft between his buttocks appeared tantalizingly vulnerable, all the secrets of this powerful body laid out for Javert’s perusal—Javert’s mastery.

Javert moistened his lips as he looked at Valjean. “Hold yourself open,” he said, a nearly painful surge of heat racing through him when Valjean obeyed.

Just as he had done before for Javert’s inspection, Valjean’s hands grabbed hold of his buttocks, then pulled them apart.

Javert swallowed when he saw Valjean revealed to him. His hole was pink, the muscle tight, Valjean’s skin pale against the shocking red of the welts.

When Javert moved forward, Valjean’s thighs spread further apart for him, accommodating him as he knelt between them. He rested one hand on Valjean’s thigh, tracing a welt, savoring the shiver that went through Valjean.

“Why is it,” he murmured, “that this afternoon, you were fighting the reins like a panicked horse when in my bed, you’re as docile as a lamb?”

Was it not strange that Valjean should submit to his demands here without a word of protest, when a few hours earlier, Javert had seen the truth of the anger that still burned in his heart, called forth for no good reason?

Javert slicked his fingers with oil. He slowly traced around Valjean’s tight muscle, watching as it clenched instinctively in response, Valjean’s breath coming faster.

He played with Valjean for long minutes, teasing him while Valjean’s muscle contracted beneath his finger. When he penetrated him at last, Valjean yielded to him easily, his body soft and warm as it clung to him as if it wanted to keep him there while the sound of Valjean’s heavy breathing filled the room.

He added a second finger after a while, watching as it slid in, Valjean’s hole spreading for him. Valjean still held himself open in obedience to Javert’s command. Javert licked his lips again, slowly sliding in and out, enjoying the easy glide and the way Valjean yielded to him, again and again, all of his secret places open and exposed to Javert’s every whim.

Valjean’s back had begun to arch, his hips canting, his legs spreading even further as Javert slowly and thoroughly filled him with his fingers.

“Hold still.” The sight was intoxicating. “There’s more for you if you’re good.”

Valjean’s breathing was coming in little gasps now, his face turned into the blanket to smother the soft, hungry sounds he made.

Javert added a third finger, simply for the delight of seeing the swollen rim of Valjean’s hole yield to that as well, clinging to his knuckles when he sank into Valjean’s body again. Curling his fingers within the vulnerable heat of Valjean produced a groan. As Valjean arched beneath him, one of his knees slid further forward, the other to the side, all the muscles in Valjean’s body tensing and giving Javert a glimpse of the bruised red of his erect cock.

“Stop squirming, I said.” Javert chuckled at the sight. He withdrew his fingers only to slide back in, twisting within the warm channel that belonged to him and him alone. Another almost pained sound from Valjean followed, his arousal jerking against his stomach.

“See how good you can be.” Breathlessly, Javert withdrew his fingers, watching as the reddened muscle released him only reluctantly. When Javert took hold of his cock and pressed the swollen head to Valjean’s hole, Valjean made another helpless sound, the muscle contracting against him as if hungry to draw him in.

Even though he was breathless with need himself, Javert’s curiosity won out.

He held still, not pushing forward, not pressing in. Instead, running his hands slowly down Valjean’s muscled thighs, he savored the heat of the welts lining the tender skin as Valjean trembled beneath him. And then, accompanied by the sound of Valjean’s overwhelmed breathing, Valjean’s hole, slick with oil and loose from fingering, seemed to open around him, slowly drawing in the flared head of his cock in the sweetest embrace Javert had ever known.

As impossible as it seemed, Valjean—who had confronted him with blazing eyes earlier, who had raised his voice at him over the inconsequential matter of Fantine, who’d needed to be taught manners with a switch—was pushing back against Javert, his body wet with sweat and trembling all over as he willingly took Javert’s cock, the way a horse might hesitantly take the bit for the first time.

“There,” Javert said hoarsely. “You see. You get what you want when you’re good.”

He curved his hands around Valjean’s powerful thighs, stroking his slick skin as he encouraged him to move back further. The red, swollen rim of Valjean’s hole spread hungrily around his cock. Valjean still held himself spread open, obedient to his demands even now. And as Javert watched breathlessly, Valjean swallowed another centimeter, the muscles of Valjean’s thighs tensing as Valjean pushed back against him.

The inside of his body was impossibly soft and hot, embracing him like velvet, spreading for him as Valjean, still trembling, impaled himself on him.

“Slowly now,” Javert cautioned, barely able to breathe at the sight. He rested a hand on Valjean’s back. “All of it—but slowly.”

How little it would take—one thrust, and he’d sink into Valjean to the hilt. Instead, with Valjean’s labored breathing the only sound in the room, he watched as Valjean worked for it. Once he was halfway inside, a desperate moan broke free from Valjean’s throat. It had to be there where he’d curled his fingers, letting Valjean feel that mastery of him even from within while Valjean shook, the formerly so rebellious man utterly undone.

Now Javert ran his hand down Valjean’s thigh, rubbing his thumb lovingly against a hot welt.

“All of it,” he repeated, and Valjean, who came to him either with the suffering surrender of a martyr or the sullen eyes of the hulks, now obeyed tremulously, little more but tense, shaking muscles and the hot yielding of his body that clung to Javert’s aching prick as if it had been made for him.

When they were at last fully joined, Javert allowed Valjean the use of his hands to hold himself upright. Bent over him, Javert breathed in the scent of his sweat. 

“Very good,” he murmured. Then, slowly, he began to move.

The first thrust wrung a cry from Valjean’s throat. His hands digging into the sheets, Valjean raised his hips, the rim of his hole clinging deliciously to Javert’s aching cock. Javert’s hand ran down Valjean’s thigh again, something hot and hungry clenching in his stomach at the raised lines beneath his fingers, the mark he’d left on Valjean’s body—just as soon enough, he’d mark him from within.

With each thrust, Valjean’s body tightened around him. Valjean kept pushing back against him as if even now, with the entire length of Javert’s cock buried inside the hot depths of his body, he still wanted more. With his hand curved around Valjean’s hip, Javert pulled him back sharply every time he thrust forward—and every time, he was greeted by another cry and the sight of the round buttocks, still decorated with crimson stripes, clenching beneath him.

He didn’t touch Valjean until he felt his own climax approaching. Even then, it took little more than the coaxing curve of his fingers around Valjean’s heavy cock to make Valjean shudder. Accompanied by a hoarse groan, the length in Javert’s hand pulsed with a sudden release just as Javert thrust home for the final time, his own pleasure overwhelming him at last. He ground himself against the curve of Valjean’s buttocks until he was fully spent—and Valjean, still trembling beneath him, at last collapsed onto the bed with Javert still inside him.

“See how good it is when you yield,” Javert said with tired satisfaction.

He was still inside Valjean, softening within the velvety clutch of his body. Beneath Javert’s mouth, hot skin wet with sweat was still rising and falling rapidly.

As he pressed his lips contentedly to Valjean’s shoulder, he wrapped his arms around him. Valjean’s strong body rested warm and exhausted in his arms. When Javert allowed his hand to trail lower, he found Valjean’s stomach sticky with more than just sweat. Gently, he drew circles there, thinking of his cock, nestled there somewhere beneath his hand. How did that feel to Valjean, to feel him still inside, to know himself conquered and yet, perhaps, to be at ease at last?

He took hold of Valjean’s hand, drew it down to his stomach and pressed his mouth to his neck. “Do you know how good you feel inside?” he breathed. “So hot and soft…”

Idly, he trailed his mouth along Valjean’s nape, feeling the roughness of hair that had begun to regrow against his lips. A tremor ran through Valjean. He didn’t move away, but he kept shaking until Javert realized at last that Valjean was weeping silently. 

Javert kept stroking him, feeling himself still soft within Valjean, the powerful body making no move to escape his embrace despite the quiet sobs that shook Valjean.

“Will you sleep in my bed tonight?” Javert murmured long moments later, already half asleep himself.

A minute or two passed during which Valjean did not move. At last, keeping his face averted, he pushed himself up on hands and knees. Javert made a tired sound of complaint when he felt his soft cock slip from the heat of Valjean’s body.

Silently, Valjean slipped from his bed. A moment later, he returned to wipe Javert clean with a damp cloth. Then, just as silently, Valjean moved away.

Javert exhaled when he listened to the quiet sounds of Valjean curling up at the foot of his bed. Not today then… But one day. There’d been a battle won today. There’d be other battles. But sooner or later, Valjean would yield even that willingly. Javert knew it—and perhaps, so did Valjean now.

When Javert sank into sleep at last, it was with one arm spread across the bed, the mattress still warm where Valjean had rested.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The sun was painting broad stripes of gold across the wood of the floor when Valjean woke. For a moment, he remained in that pleasant state between dream and reality, stretching out his hand until it rested in one of those patches of early morning sunlight.

He felt exhausted and sore, as if he had taken a beating, bruised within as well as without. As he curled his fingers, the light gleamed on his nails. For a moment, all he saw was the golden light of dawn, so fresh and clean that it seemed to erase the welts and scratches that marred his skin.

Then, slowly, reality began to intrude. This wasn’t the sunlight of the hulks, which had filtered into the damp interior of the ship with an eerie aquatic quality, the rays of light reflected off the water before they filled the dim hulks. This was the bright morning light of the countryside of Northern France, not the merciless sun of the Mediterranean.

And yet, Valjean was resting on wooden planks, his body raw and sore from the discipline meted out by another’s hand.

Valjean exhaled when memory returned, bringing with it the shame of his surrender. The welts on his thighs and buttocks were still sore; he had spent the night on his stomach. And yet it had been his soul that had taken a beating last night.

Again he curled his fingers, remembering the way he had arched and cried out for Javert.

Shaking, he clenched his hand hard—but the wound had healed, as Javert had promised it would. Even though Valjean tightened his fingers until his knuckles turned white, there was none of the pain he knew he deserved. There was nothing but the relentless, faint throb of the welts that lined his backside, too dull to pull him out of his memories.

Even yesterday, so soon after Javert had disciplined him, those aching welts hadn’t been enough to halt his fall. Javert had told him where he wanted him—and it had taken little more than two weeks for Valjean to fall so low.

A sob built in his throat; he swallowed it. His hand fell open again. The light of the sun revealed the red mark on his palm.

Valjean clenched his eyes shut, turning his head against his shoulder as he wept silently, there at the foot of Javert’s bed, while the sunlight moved slowly across the floor.

Half an hour might have passed before Javert stirred at last. Valjean’s eyes were dry when Javert came to unchain him; he rose obediently, as naked as Javert, and followed him to the washbasin.

Javert appeared to be in a good mood. He watched Valjean with a small smile when Valjean began the by now familiar task of carefully washing Javert’s limbs. Javert stood loose and relaxed; when Valjean moved to his knees to wash Javert’s legs, Javert stretched with a content sound. He was half-erect, and completely unashamed of the fact that blood stiffened his cock; as much as Valjean tried to focus only on his task, he found his breathing speeding up instinctively, his eyes returning again and again to the sight of Javert’s shaft, which kept hardening as Valjean washed him.

“Do you remember,” Javert said drowsily, “the day I first came to Montreuil? We talked. You rolled your eyes at me. I’ve thought of it often since. I still do.”

Valjean halted. He swallowed as he looked up.

Javert was looking down at him, the smile still on his face. “This is better, isn’t it? No more of that insolence now. And we both know this arrangement isn’t entirely distasteful to you.”

Javert laughed again, as if it was a joke they’d shared, then turned to look out of the window.

“A good day,” he said. “You’ll progress well on that mudslide. Business takes me to Paris today, but when I return tomorrow, I’ll check on your work. You don’t want to disappoint me.”

Valjean bent his head. “No, sir.”

A day in Paris—which meant a day and a night without Javert. Valjean’s bruised soul revived at this sudden taste of freedom after the cruel beating it had taken during the preceding night.

First, though, there was another service Javert demanded.

Javert made an appreciative sound when Valjean carefully washed his swollen cock, which at last came to full hardness in Valjean’s hand. Valjean tried to ignore it as he continued with his task, but once Valjean had finished, returning the wet cloth to the basin, Javert took hold of his hand and drew it back to his cock.

Valjean swallowed. He needed no further instruction.

Javert filled his hand, thick and warm, feeling strangely alive as Valjean stroked him. When he tried to speed up, hoping to get it over with quickly, Javert made him slow down again. Javert was so hard in his hand now that Valjean could feel the throb of his pulse.

Then Javert took hold of Valjean’s free hand and drew it forward, so that it came to rest on Javert’s thigh. For a heartbeat, Valjean hesitated—but Javert’s hand had already released him again, leaving him without instruction.

The skin beneath his hand was warm. Still damp from the washcloth, it was smooth and unmarred by the scars that lined Valjean’s own body. Hesitantly, Valjean began to stroke Javert’s thigh, which earned him an approving sound of encouragement.

Something twisted in Valjean’s stomach. Javert’s prick was obscenely swollen. Valjean barely knew where to look. The gleam of the wet glans appearing from the circle formed by his fingers made him shiver instinctively—but to turn his gaze instead to where his hand was slowly sliding over Javert’s thigh, feeling the flexing of lean muscles beneath smooth skin, to see the light dusting of hair further up that at last turned into the coarse curls surrounding the root of Javert’s cock, was even more embarrassing.

Javert was breathing heavily. It was the only sound in the room.

Valjean listened to it as he stroked Javert in the same rhythm, his own breath coming quicker as he watched the flushed head of Javert’s cock appear from the grasp of his fingers once more. A bead of wetness had welled up from the hole at the tip, gleaming in the light. As Valjean watched, it ran down Javert’s glans.

Hesitantly, Valjean rubbed the pad of his thumb against it when he stroked upwards again, spreading it over the slick skin. Javert groaned softly in approval. Another translucent droplet followed. The muscles of Javert’s stomach were flexing, his gleaming skin taut over the sharp lines of his hips. More hair led downward from his navel in a thin line, Javert’s muscles shifting beneath his skin with every rapid breath he took as Valjean worked his prick.

A rectangle of light spread across Javert’s chest, his skin aglow with the golden luster of ocher where sunlight fell in. The window grid threw a shadow across his upper body, a cross that followed the lines of his collarbones, the vertical bar a harsh line slashed across his chest, leading down to where he was hard as iron in Valjean’s hand.

It wasn’t until Valjean realized that his hand had traveled upward, his fingertips pressing against the fluttering muscles of Javert’s stomach, that he became aware of the tightness in his own stomach, tendrils of oppressive heat unfurling inside him.

When he looked up in shock, he found that Javert was watching him with heavy-lidded eyes, his face, for once, unsmiling—and his breath coming in the same fast rhythm as Valjean’s.

Valjean’s lips parted. He held Javert’s gaze as he kept stroking him, his cock so hard he could feel the throb of blood.

Valjean’s hand was still pressed against the hot skin of Javert’s stomach. He could feel the exact the moment Javert reached his climax: the muscles beneath his fingertips suddenly tensed a heartbeat before Javert groaned, those impenetrable eyes closing. Javert’s mouth went slack as he exhaled—and then a first pulse of his release splashed against his stomach.

Something inside Valjean was taut and urgent. He’d stopped breathing, but even so, he couldn’t look away. There was another pulse of Javert’s spend, and another, the last dripping hot across Valjean’s knuckles as Javert’s muscles contracted beneath his hand.

Then, at last, Javert sighed deeply and opened his eyes again, the accustomed smile returned to his face.

Valjean’s hand was still pressed to Javert’s stomach. Now, with their eyes locked once more, Valjean froze like a trapped animal.

“Open your mouth,” Javert said.

Valjean obeyed, warily awaiting the eerie sensation of Javert’s tongue in his mouth that he knew was to follow.

Instead, Javert dragged a finger across his stomach. Then, slowly, so that Valjean could see the glistening semen that clung to his skin, he raised it to Valjean’s mouth.

Valjean shivered when Javert’s fingertip slowly traced over his tongue. Javert’s semen was still warm; a moment later, Valjean could taste him, earthy and bitter.

Javert’s thumb stroked along Valjean’s bottom lip, in what might have been a gentle caress if Valjean’s heart had not been racing so in his chest. Javert’s finger was still in his mouth, the taste of his release spreading over Valjean’s tongue, filling his senses. Valjean could smell him now, too: the heady musk of sex, the bitter note of his spend, the lavender scent of the soap.

When Javert at last released him, it was only to slide his hand around Valjean’s nape once more, his thumb rubbing gently against the stubble of growing hair. Valjean started when Javert’s other hand pressed against his cock. Valjean had thought that it was fear that made his heart race; with Javert’s fingers pressing against him, he realized with sudden betrayal that he was achingly hard, his shaft pulsing in time with his rapid heartbeat.

“Shall I give you release?” Javert murmured, his thumb stroking along the underside of Valjean’s cock.

Valjean trembled, the tightness in his stomach coiling further, as if something within him had been stretched close to breaking point. A part of him wanted to give himself up to it: to close his eyes and let the tears come and let Javert break him to make an end of this torment within his breast.

Instead, his heart thundering in his chest, he heard himself saying, “I would rather another beating. Sir.”

Javert huffed a laugh as if amused rather than insulted. “Do you,” he said thoughtfully. “Yes. You would, wouldn’t you.”

He released Valjean, who struggled to breathe, so relieved at the sudden freedom from the terrifying need within him that he failed to realize that Javert had stepped away to retrieve something.

“Here. Over the bed,” Javert said when he returned.

Javert was holding his belt in his hand. The sight made Valjean tremble, but even now the aching tightness within him remained, his cock pulsing heavily as he allowed Javert to arrange him on the bed.

Then Javert’s belt came down, and Valjean wept again, hiding his face in his arms.

Javert’s arms were strong; he’d doubled the belt, and every time the leather came down, Valjean groaned through his tears. The pain was dull, unlike the fierce, bright agony of the switch; it resonated through his body, his buttocks throbbing with heat. Where the leather bit into his skin, the day old welts sprang into flame again. His entire backside was smarting, and still the traitorous heat within him had not entirely abated.

Javert paused for a moment. Slowly, he trailed his hand over Valjean’s buttocks, stroking his burning flesh, then squeezing it admiringly until Valjean made another miserable sound.

“It’s different, isn’t it?” Javert mused, sounding almost admiring. “The punishment of the hulks never made you cry. It’s not the pain. I don’t believe that. Strange to think you’d have any shame left after nineteen years in Toulon, but I’m starting to think you do.”

Javert’s thumb traced along a burning line he had left, and Valjean heard his own breath hitch.

“I knew all along it would be unavoidable to discipline you,” Javert murmured. He laughed softly. “I imagined it sometimes when we were talking. You behind your desk, ordering me around with such insolence when we both knew who you were. I just never thought it would be like this—so satisfying. It seems you’re not the only one learning a lesson here. I’ll keep this in mind in the future.”

Javert’s hand trailed upwards. It came to rest at the small of Valjean’s back, its heaviness strangely reassuring. Then the belt fell down again, forcing a groan from Valjean and flooding him with gratitude at the same time.

This was what he was to Javert. He needed to remember it.

But even now, with the heavy reprimand of Javert’s own belt making him ache, he could still see the precipice before him. Javert had lured him so close to the edge that Valjean need only allow himself to fall.

But if he fell, if he allowed himself to perish in the terrifying allure of Javert’s embrace—in the pain that he deserved, if not from Javert’s hand—then what was to become of Fantine?

And what was to become of him when Javert left Montreuil eventually?

Javert didn’t offer salvation. Javert didn’t even offer expiation. To Javert, Valjean was a pleasant distraction—a toy that amused him.

And when the time came, he had to be prepared to run, for there was nothing waiting for him here but the transient relief of the pain Javert offered.

***

Valjean was grateful when he was at last able to escape into the mindless labor waiting for him, swinging the pickax in the warm sunlight until his shoulders ached, and carrying rocks without pause until, little by little, they’d progressed enough to see the end in sight. Caillot once slapped his back in approval when Valjean carried a particularly heavy rock to the pile instead of bothering to break it into smaller pieces; Valjean flinched at the sudden touch, but when Caillot only laughed cheerfully in response, he dared to relax.

“That inspector has it out for you, eh?” Caillot chuckled appreciatively. “Shame even that won’t thaw the heart of our pretty little Fantine. That one’s like an angry cat—fur bristling as soon as she looks at you.”

Valjean felt his throat close again. Wordlessly, he turned away to return to his work, but just at that moment, the sound of hoofbeats announced the arrival of a visitor. A moment later, he came into view around the bend of the road. It was one of Javert’s men, Gilbert—and by his side, there was Robert once more.

Valjean felt his heart sink at the familiar sight of his friend. Was Robert truly set on destroying the good reputation he had in the town? Even if he didn’t strive for a public office, it would do him no favors to be seen in public with a convict again and again.

“Wonderful,” Robert could be heard saying when they slowly approached. “Well done, Gilbert, truly splendid work. It looks like the path will be clear just in time for the carts from Alette to arrive next week.”

“About time, too,” Gilbert said. “Javert’s been having trouble with this lot, but he knows how to make them pick up the pace.”

“I don’t doubt that,” Robert said dryly.

Valjean paused his work for a heartbeat, watching Robert despite their parting words the last time they had talked. It seemed impossible now to have turned away from Robert’s compassion when all that Javert offered was an annihilation so complete that it still made Valjean shudder to feel that yearning for it deep inside himself even now.

Robert did not turn to acknowledge him. Valjean felt a stab in his heart as he watched Robert jest with the police agent.

Valjean knew that it was the right decision. He owed it to Robert to not stand in his path, after the damage he’d done. Still, to think of Robert joining in when they laughed about Valjean’s fate in the officers’ café or the marketplace…

Gilbert threw a satchel at Caillot, which Valjean knew would hold some bread and cheese for their short midday break.

“Here—let me offer you this as well, mademoiselle,” Robert said brightly.

As Valjean watched, Robert reached into his pocket. He nudged his horse forward, only to let an apple drop into Fantine’s hand, who accepted it with a suspicious look—not bothering to thank him.

“You too, Gilbert? I’ve just inspected my orchards. It looks like it will be a good harvest this year.”

Robert produced a fine, red apple for the police agent, then reached into his pockets once more. Further apples—these still somewhat green—were dropped into the hands of Caillot, Fasquel and his wife. Then, at last, Robert looked up.

Valjean swallowed when Robert gazed at him coldly, with none of the warmth he had become so accustomed to—he, who had never known friendship before Robert.

“And you don’t deserve a treat,” Robert said, loud enough that the words would carry to Gilbert, “given how often you’ve been eating my food and drinking my wine. A convict at my table, just think of that! But let it not be said that I’m not a good Christian. Here. That’s all you can expect from me now.”

A final apple—the smallest of the lot, and still entirely green—was hurled at Valjean, who caught it by reflex.

Gilbert laughed. “Let’s not tell the chief about it. From the way he goes on about that one, he doesn’t deserve the clothes on his back.”

Robert chuckled appreciative, and Valjean let his head drop, sickened despite his earlier advice to Robert.

He turned the apple in his hand without really seeing it, thinking back to those days when Robert, enthusiastic about his new project, had persuaded him to accept the mayoral sash. How Robert had to regret those days now.

All of a sudden, Valjean became aware that something was brushing against his fingertip.

When his eyes focused on the apple at last, he saw that someone had cut into the fruit. And into that cut, a piece of paper was wedged, folded into a tiny square.

Valjean froze, then looked up. Gilbert was still distracted by Robert. The other men and women were busy with their own apples and the welcome break from the monotony of their work.

Hastily, Valjean turned around and freed the note. When he unfolded it, the familiar script of Robert greeted him.


“Take heart. I think I know a way to help you. It will take time—and I will need to disavow you in public. But everything you see me do from now on I will do for you. You’re not alone. Don’t lose faith.”


His heart suddenly pounding in his breast, Valjean turned back and raised his head. Robert was watching him—his face still without emotion, but Valjean could see his eyes travel to the apple in his hand. 

Valjean nodded slightly, then raised the apple to his mouth. It was tart, not entirely ripe yet, but the acidic juices washed the bitterness from his mouth, which had lingered there since the morning.

He humbly lifted his cap when Robert rode past him. Robert did not grace him with even a single glance, but in Valjean’s hand, the paper felt reassuringly real.

Not everything was lost. No matter how tempting it was to surrender himself to the oblivion Javert offered, he had to remember that he wasn’t alone. He still had a friend.

It's not actually possible to travel that quickly from Montreuil-sur-Mer to Paris on horseback and back - but since that is what Javert seems to do in the miniseries, I've decided to go with that inaccuracy here as well. (It's a distance of over 200 km one way, and even given a good, well-trained horse that can do 100 km in a day, he'd have to take five days off from work for such a trip, which he clearly doesn't do when he races off to denounce Madeleine at the Prefecture and seems to come back the same evening. Travel in a coach that changes horses would be much faster, but since the BBC gave us fast travel and Original Horse Characters, that's what I'm sticking with as well.)

It was late in the afternoon when Javert made his way along the Quai des Orfèvres. Noiraude snorted in satisfaction when they took the familiar turn into the Rue de Jérusalem after the long hours of travel. The mare’s neck was wet with sweat, the dark brown of her coat now gleaming black, and when Javert dismounted, he grabbed the arm of the boy who had reached for her reins.

“Make sure to wipe her down and water her, do you hear me? And feed her well.”

Then, making his way inside where the Chief Inspector awaited him, he could not help but note with fierce satisfaction the change that had come to pass in just a few weeks after he had last traveled here to speak to Gisquet.

Back then, men had loitered in corridors, waiting idly in the Chief’s office, each and every one of them dressed as badly as if they belonged behind bars instead of wielding the cuffs and the cudgel. And when he had entered, they had watched him with an insolent greed not unlike the looks greeting a young man who entered a gambling den for the first time in his life.

Now, there was a marked difference. As soon as he entered, the room fell quiet, the men taking notice of him. This time, everyone knew who he was. And if many of them still stared at him with envy or that jealous derision he knew all too well, let them. They knew his name now. It had been the same way in the hulks. Let the men stare and whisper behind his back while he kept rising. There would come a day when the very men who now traded crude theories about his parentage would be forced to take his orders.

He ignored them as he stalked into the office, heading straight towards Gisquet’s desk, who this time rose and greeted him with no surprise.

“Ah, Javert. Right on time. Very well. I have the prosecutor’s report here somewhere—”

“Here, sir,” a man seated at a desk said—one of the few who was bent over his work instead of lazing against walls.

When Javert moved towards him, he hastily rose and offered his seat. “I have your reports here as well, M. Javert.”

Javert stared at him, taking in his clothes—clean, unrumpled, although of the same cheap quality as the garments the other spies wore. Javert didn’t think the man had been here when he’d first introduced himself to the Chief Inspector and tried to inform him about Jean Valjean’s new identity.

“Good, Rivette. Make yourself useful somewhere else.” Gisquet waved his hand dismissively before he pulled one of the letters forward.

Rivette straightened. “Sir,” he said, then hesitated, looking at Javert. “Would you like me to take your coat, sir?”

Javert thought he heard a muffled laugh somewhere at the back of the room. He ignored it, studying Rivette, who looked back at him from earnest eyes. His cravat was neatly tied around his throat, his cheeks cleanly shaved, his mustache well groomed.

After a moment, Javert briefly inclined his head and turned around, allowing the coat to slip from his shoulders while Rivette reached out for it.

From the scornful looks the other men gave him when he hung the coat on a coat rack by the door, Javert assumed that Rivette was a new arrival to the Prefecture. Perhaps his eagerness to impress Gisquet would die away within another week or two as the other men accepted him into their brotherhood of slovenliness and idleness. Or perhaps Rivette would still be here when Javert would manage to get himself promoted to the Prefecture. 

It was apparent that it would take work to transform this place—the men here might snicker at his background now, but in their slumped posture, stained coats and unshaven faces Javert could see the same brutishness that had surrounded him in the hulks. These men, despite the way they stared at him, were no better than the drunk prison guards among whom he’d begun his career.

In any case, it would be good to have a man or two like Rivette beneath him when it came to it.

When Javert left the Prefecture, it was getting dark.

Noiraude had recovered somewhat: her eyes were alert and her coat dry when he went to check on her. He threw the boy who had taken care of her a coin, then left the stables of the Prefecture. The sun fully set while he threaded his way through the crowds that lined the Quai des Orfèvres, until he found an inn that looked of slightly better repute than others he had passed.

It was strange to eat his dinner in the loud atmosphere of the inn. Even though he had chosen a small table in a quiet, shadowy corner, it was impossible to escape the din of voices. For the past weeks, Valjean had served him his food; now, it was served by a harried girl who barely looked at him, hastening back and forth while other customers called for more wine.

The food wasn’t bad; even so Javert barely tasted it as he leaned back in his chair, his thoughts lingering on the man he’d left behind.

He did not doubt that Valjean had spent the day thinking of him as well; his belt had seen to that. How strange that Valjean had asked for it when it was Valjean who had always come to his bed so willingly…

Well, perhaps it was not so strange; the man was no doubt experienced in such things from his long years in the hulks, and yet his years as mayor had made him ashamed of past appetites. Or perhaps not all of Valjean’s change of heart was a lie; perhaps he had, in his heart of hearts, begun to understand that hardest of lessons and now longed for the only response his crimes deserved.

Strange, though, that Valjean seemed to reject the justice meted out by the law, yet could long for a punishment meted out by Javert’s own hand.

It was with thoughts of Valjean’s powerful body spread out on his bed, tensing beneath him, that Javert finally retired to bed. Tomorrow the long journey home awaited—and before that, he had a few purchases left to make.

***

Impatiently, Javert made his way through the market crowd, his sharp glance scaring off a pickpocket who’d trailed him for several minutes. Javert allowed his lips to curl with derision. The boy was dirty and thin, clad in filthy rags, about twelve or thirteen years of age. At thirteen, Javert had long been working for his own bread.

There were other thieves and ruffians about. Javert’s smile widened when a harlot stumbled into him, then invited him to follow her back into an alley, where doubtlessly, someone with a knife was waiting.

Without bothering to reply to her woeful story, he pushed her away, continuing his stroll through the market. There were many stalls here, vendors selling not just the produce of the local fields, which was what the small marketplace of Montreuil offered, but delicacies from all over France and other countries.

One stall finally caught his attention. It was a spice vendor, selling white bulbs of garlic, golden saffron, the fragrant lavender of Provence, and mounds of dried, green herbs: tarragon, marjoram, rosemary, sage and many more.

To the poles of the stall, bundles of dried garlic and onions had been tied along with twigs of rosemary and thyme. And there, in a corner, hung several bundles of tiny, dried peppers which Javert recalled from his childhood, running errands in the port of Toulon.

The vendor eyed him, then gave him an obsequious smile. “Peppers from Espelette,” he said. “Perhaps not as hot as the flavors of Saint-Domingue, but if monsieur misses a familiar taste, I have these peppers, much hotter, just off a ship from Cayenne…”

“How much?” Javert said curtly.

The vendor demanded ten sous with a shrewd look at Javert’s clothes; Javert parted from him at last with a bundle of the peppers tucked into his pocket, and six sous in the spice merchant’s hand.

It was still early. Nevertheless, there was work waiting for him in Montreuil, and it would not do to linger.

The clothes Javert wore had been expensive for a man of his position and were of good quality; they would have to last a while yet, especially since he did not know what was to come. There was no sense in visiting the shop of a tailor with that uncertainty, as much as the urbanity of Paris attracted him after the many months in the provinces. As different as Paris was to the Mediterranean city of his childhood with its blue skies and salty air, there was something in the hustle and bustle all around him that felt familiar, although the streets themselves were not familiar yet.

His time would come. He’d taken a first, large step towards it with his arrest of Madeleine. For now, he had to be patient.

He’d already turned around to return to the stables of the Prefecture when another stall caught his eye.

This one was colorful as well, but instead of spices or luxurious silks, it sold sugary confections to a bourgeois clientele—confections that had been far out of his reach as a child, running back and forth to do errands for sailors and soldiers for a handful of bread every day.

He could not say what made him slow down until he found himself come to a halt in front of it, eying a tin of candied violets arranged next to the nut-studded nougat from Montélimar.

A woman of perhaps fifty years of age eyed him, then, apparently satisfied by the bourgeois clothes he wore, invited him to take a closer look.

“Some sweets to take home, monsieur?” she asked, holding up a small box. “Anis de Flavigny, the famous anise dragées from Burgundy. What girl wouldn’t look favorably on the bearer of such sugary delights?” Then she winked. “Or perhaps monsieur is wooing a mistress…”

The thought was ludicrous, but Javert found himself suddenly smiling.

No, he didn’t have a mistress to woo. But there was an ill-trained stallion awaiting him at home, who was going to taste the whip—and worse. Perhaps Javert could afford to be generous as well. The thought of one of the small, white anise dragées melting on Valjean’s pink tongue, Valjean’s warm lips taking it warily from his palm… Yes, that was pleasing enough.

Javert spent a few minutes deliberating. At last, when he turned from the stall, it was with both the candied violets from Toulouse and the anise dragées.

The vendor had offered him one of the crystallized violets to try, which had melted on his tongue with sugary sweetness, ending with a gentle burst of flowery perfume. The anise, on the other hand, was a round pill of hard sugar, applied with great patience in layer after layer around the single grain of anise that laid at its center. Driven by a sudden urge he couldn’t explain, Javert had purchased a quantity of these as well.

When he slipped the box into a pocket of his coat, he acknowledged the strangeness of this impulse with a wry smile. While he’d enjoyed all the amenities that had come with his position in Montreuil—the fine horse, the good wine and food he could now afford, the respectable wardrobe—he had never been tempted to overindulge with sugary treats. Or indeed, to overindulge at all.

At least, not until Jean Valjean had surrendered himself into his power. And then… Then, perhaps, he had indulged himself too much. He’d become so used to his new routine that one night spent in Paris, without Valjean available to obey his every order with an expression of suffering in his eyes, had left him eager for their meeting this evening.

Someone bumped into Javert when he turned around for one final look at the market. Instinct made him reach out to grab the man’s arm before he had even seen his face, well used to the tricks pickpockets employed in such crowded spaces. And indeed, the man’s face seemed strangely familiar.

“Oh! It’s you! Pardon, sir—I didn’t see you there.”

“Rivette, isn’t it?” Javert said after a moment when something about the man’s chagrined look stirred his memory. “What are you doing here? Gisquet didn’t send you to keep an eye on me, did he?”

“Oh! Not at all, sir.”

Rivette still looked vaguely worried, but Javert was starting to believe that this might just be the man’s permanent state. 

“Are you certain?” Javert said with a smile. “I can’t be very popular with your colleagues.”

“Oh.” Now the look of worry on Rivette’s face increased. “I wouldn’t know, sir. I’ve only just been transferred here. But that can’t be right. I’ve been sorting Gisquet’s papers all week; there were lots of reports about the man you unmasked—a mayor who was a convict! The story made it into all the papers here. Between us, sir, I think Gisquet’s happy about anything positive at all in the papers these days. Why would that make you unpopular?”

“Your colleagues might be feeling threatened.” Javert allowed himself another smile. “Really, Rivette, you’re telling me you’ve been welcomed with open arms by that lot?”

“Well,” Rivette said hesitantly, “Pauchet told me to stop with the bootlicking because I make them all look bad—but surely that was a joke. I just figured, since I’m new, easiest way to get acquainted with how everything’s done around here is to bury myself in the paperwork for a while. Nothing wrong with that, right?”

Javert exhaled a soft laugh. How late was it? The sun stood low; it had to be early still. He couldn’t have spent more than half an hour on the market.

“Come,” he then said. “Let me buy you some wine. I want to know what you think of the Prefecture. The men you work with. Tell me what you’ve learned about how things are done around here.”

“I really shouldn’t, sir—I’m looking for a pair of ruffians. She lures men into alleys; he waits there with a knife.”

Javert made an amused sound. “Had I known they were yours, I’d have held her for you. I fear I chased her away.”

“Can’t be all that smart to try her wiles on you, sir,” Rivette said good-naturedly. “That means I should be able to catch her sooner or later. Very well then, I’ll tell you what you want to know. If you tell me about that spectacular case of yours.”

“Deal.”

It was still early, after all—and if he drove Noiraude hard, they would still be able to make it back to Montreuil before sunset. Javert wanted to see Valjean silent and obedient, taking his coat and serving his food and going to his knees at a snap of his fingers.

But that hunger was a now familiar glow in the pit of his stomach, and it was easy to bear it for a while when he knew that he could satisfy it any time he pleased.

To enter the offices of the Prefecture had fanned an older hunger—much older. That hunger had been placed in the cradle with him—if he’d ever rested in a cradle as a child. He rather doubted it.

He hadn’t thought of his parents in many years—they’d made their choice, after all, just as he had. The spice merchant’s insinuations had been nothing new either. But in truth, what did it matter?

His parents had been criminals. He’d known the truth of what that meant. A jail had been his cradle. He’d learned to walk and talk among the scum of the earth, and when he was old enough to realize where he was, and that following the path of his parents would keep him there forever, he’d made his own choice.

He’d hungered for more. He’d hungered for the freedom of just men who’d never seen the inside of a jail. He’d hungered for respectability. He’d hungered for the authority that made hardened criminals quake when a guard’s eyes fell on them.

He’d seen all around him the men and women of Toulon in their clean clothes, saw them dine in inns on good food or buy meat and eggs in the marketplace when he was subsisting on scraps. He wanted what they had. And he’d taken it—but not like a thief did. He’d earned it by year after year of hard work, teaching himself to read and write, standing clear of the small infractions and bribery that were rampant among the guards.

Now he had what he’d always wanted—and there was more, already within reach. Paris. The Prefecture. To think that one might transform that band of slovenly spies that disgraced the Chief Inspector’s office…

But first, they would need to offer him a position in the Prefecture. He’d be working beneath Gisquet. He’d be working among men who he knew had already taken against him.

Still, that wasn’t a new experience either. The guards of the hulks hadn’t been exactly welcoming to a youth of his background.

All it took was perseverance. And when the time came, perhaps there’d already be a man among the Prefecture’s agents he could rely upon.

Javert chose a corner table, then poured the wine. “So. Tell me. What’s it like, working for Gisquet?”

It was strange to have an entire evening on his hands. The day had been long, the work hard—although at least they had kept progressing, Valjean once more foregoing any breaks to carry the rocks from the road in addition to breaking them up.

Javert should be pleased when he returned—although that, too, was not something to look forward to. Surely any reward he might choose to give would be besmirched with the same degradation Valjean had helplessly felt himself falling into.

He pushed that thought away, focusing on the pleasure of being able to wash his body here in the privacy of the barracks. The other two men had gone first and had now retreated to the kitchen where the women were preparing their dinner.

It was a blessing to for once shed his clothes in private, without curious eyes following the lines the whip had left on his back—or the more recent marks of his punishment at Javert’s hands. Marks which would fade soon enough, of course, but which nevertheless left him breathless with shame at the thought that one of the other indentured servants might see them.

After he had hastily washed the dust and mud from his body, he slipped on a clean shirt. He eyed his bed with yearning, but it had been a long day of hard work, and he was hungry. He did not feel up to a confrontation over the food—he did not want to make enemies among the people who were forced to share his misery—and he would be content with some bread. Still, he could see well enough that Javert had done him no favors by singling him out so obviously, even though Valjean had taken no enjoyment from it.

For a moment, he thought of the sounds he’d made, the sensation of Javert’s hot, sweat-slick skin against his own. He had to close his eyes for a moment, clenching his fists to regain his equilibrium. There was no longer the familiar, sharp pain to ground him; the burn had healed too well. When he opened his eyes again, he could still see Javert before him with a smile on his face, his eyes dark with confidence that Valjean would break.

Hastily, Valjean fled the quiet room and his memories. When he entered the kitchen, all conversation fell quiet for a moment. Fantine turned her head away with a sharp movement, and after a moment, Fasquel’s wife Marie moved to her side.

It was Caillot the thief who was the first to speak. “Dining with us today, M. le Maire?” He chuckled hoarsely, but nodded at the table where only four plates were laid. “Eh, Fantine, another.”

“He can get his own,” she shot back, fury still sparkling in her eyes.

Quietly, Marie reached out for the fifth plate and put it down on the table, where Fasquel and Caillot now made space for Valjean to sit down.

Fantine’s jaw was clenched, and when she brought over the pot from where it had cooked over the fire, she set it down with a loud thud.

Caillot chuckled again, then took the ladle and began to serve them. It was a thin soup made from a small handful of bones, but the barley and the roots cooked in it were plentiful. It was nothing compared to Javert’s rich stews and braised rabbits, but it was enough to sate the hunger of men who had worked hard all day—and compared to the meager meals of Valjean’s childhood that had left them slowly starving, it was a veritable feast.

The leftover chunks of dark bread had gone stale, but served well enough to soak up the soup, accompanied by a sharp, pale cheese.

Valjean ate with humble gratitude, wondering at Javert’s generosity—or was it he, perhaps, who had set the budget for supplies for the town’s indentured servants?

The custom had always horrified him. He had made certain that any person in Montreuil in danger of losing their freedom for debts had found work in his factory—or, if they were unable or ill-suited, had found ways to quietly buy up such small debts and destroy them, or occasionally found a way to leave some money in a poor garret.

Still—he could not remember it now. It must have seemed absurd that such a possibility would ever become reality in Montreuil, as long as he had the power to avert it, but it was not unlikely that he himself had set aside the money for what they were now eating out of the town’s budget.

Perhaps the thought should have been comforting; it wasn’t. What good was it to alleviate one symptom when he’d had the power to rip out the entire system of misery that had led these people here? Worse—when he had not only failed to stop, but actively thrust Fantine into this position?

***

The next day was a Sunday. Even for men like them, there was the opportunity to attend Mass, but Valjean was horrified by the mere thought of all eyes upon him in his shame.

After breakfast, the others went out to do their washing; Valjean stayed behind, using the silence to quietly pray, although it was unbearable to think of the Bishop who had once set him on the long and hard path of redemption. What would that compassionate man have to say now to the way Valjean had treated Fantine?

Valjean had thought that the coin he’d stolen from Petit-Gervais had been one last evil deed, a final outcry of the wickedness within him that he’d ruthlessly sought to stamp out afterward. But he’d been wrong. That wickedness, that evil, had always been at the heart of him, no matter how hard he’d tried to bury it.

Javert had always known that.

Valjean stretched his hand out towards the window. In the light falling in, the fading red of the burn revealed the round lines of the coin. Javert would be pleased to see that he’d been right. In the hulks, Valjean had seen enough burns to know that this would leave a mark, like the letters on the shoulders of men who’d already been old when he’d entered the hulks after that custom had been abolished.

Javert was right about that, too: it was only fitting that Valjean should carry that brand of his own wickedness. Perhaps this time, once Fantine’s year was over and he’d seen her reunited with her daughter, once he’d helped her to the life the child deserved—perhaps in Paris, perhaps with Robert’s assistance—perhaps then, Valjean would manage to cling to true goodness, with the mark on his hand forever reminding him of what was at stake if he strayed just one step from his path.

***

Once he heard the sound of the others returning, Valjean hastily took up the bundle of his own dirty clothes and ventured out towards a lonely stretch of the Canche outside of the town, where he’d be able to do his washing unobserved.

The wind carried the sound of the church bells from the distance. Just a few weeks ago, he would have quietly entered the church of Saint-Saulve at this time. Now, instead, he fell to his knees by the side of the river and buried his face in his hands. The sound of bells reverberated all around him as he squeezed his eyes shut, echoing from the mountain peaks surrounding Digne, still ringing when a young boy ran away from him, crying.

When the church bells at last fell silent, Valjean thrust his shirts into the cold water, clenching his teeth as he scrubbed them with the coarse soap until his hands were red. Once he’d wrung the water from them and draped them over the branches of a tree, he shed the clothes he was wearing and waded into the water, quickly washing himself.

It was a relief to have this brief moment of privacy. Although the water was cold, he lingered in the river for a while. There was, after all, nothing awaiting him on his return to the barracks.

He could not bear the thought of entering the church with the weight of his sins on his back. He had lost all of his possessions—all of the books that had once brought him joy, giving him moments of fleeing to faraway places in his mind. He had his bible—Javert had allowed him to take that, at least. To spend the afternoon reading, out of sight of Javert’s suspicious eyes, would perhaps be enough to give him strength to bear whatever Javert asked of him during the coming week.

The thought brought with it the cutting memory of his shame—the stretch of Javert inside him, the unbearable pleasure of it, the memory of Javert’s stomach flexing beneath his fingers as Javert found release.

Hastily, his face flushed, Valjean fled the water. His buttocks smarted when he drew on his trousers once more. He drew in a shaky breath, trying to remember the fall of Javert’s belt, the deep, dull pain of it—the truth of what he was to Javert.

The truth of what he was.

Valjean opened his hand again. The chill of the water had made the red lines of the burn stand out in relief against skin that had gone pale with cold. For a moment, he thought that in the yet-blurry patch of reddened skin, he could make out the shape of the emperor’s head.

Valjean dropped his hand, clenching his teeth as he gathered his wet clothes. An entire Sunday at his disposal. More: an entire day free from the torment of Javert’s presence. And instead of using the rare, blessed solitude to sleep, rest, and pray, he allowed Javert to haunt him even now…

With a sudden burst of frustrated impatience he grabbed hold of the last pair of trousers that had become stuck, pulling it down forcefully. The twig that had refused to release it gave way with a loud crack, and Valjean flinched. Pulling the wet clothes against his chest, he hurried away in shame at the violence still hidden within him.

He was so preoccupied with his feelings of remorse and guilt that he didn’t see them until it was too late.

Fantine and two young women were sitting beneath a willow, close to the river, hidden from view by bushes that lined the road there. Valjean had been avoiding the road in the hope of avoiding eyes, and when he came around the thicket of bushes, he nearly ran into them.

They had been talking, although they had immediately fallen silent at his intrusion. Now, recognition spread across their faces, and Valjean felt heat rush to his face when he realized who they were.

Two young women who had worked in his factory. Had they been friends of Fantine? It was a relief to think that despite her current situation, she still had friends in the town. She would need them.

He found himself wondering all of a sudden what life was like for them. Had they found new employment? Were they waiting until the factory was sold, in the hope that the new owner would let them keep their jobs?

He had wronged them too, he knew that. By saving one man, he had let everyone down who had depended on him in this town. Either choice would have caused suffering. Still, it had been impossible to let another go to the hulks in his stead…

Fantine sprang to her feet. “Are you spying on me? It’s bad enough I have to serve you your food every day, M. le Maire.” She spat into his direction again. “You’re a monster, and now everyone knows you for who you are. If you don’t leave me alone, I’ll tell Javert. He might not like me—but he’s not fooled by your act.”

Valjean swallowed, thinking of the burning shame of being beaten right in front of Fantine and the others.

“And I don’t need you to defend me,” she added angrily. “I don’t know what you think you’re doing, but it’ll stop. I don’t want to see you, I don’t want to talk to you, and I don’t want you to pretend to defend me. It’s thanks to you I’m even here.”

“I’m not following you,” Valjean said. “I’m sorry. I was washing my clothes.”

She eyed the wet clothes in his arms with suspicious eyes.

Valjean’s mouth was dry as he tried to come up with words. What was there he could say to apologize for what he’d done?

“I’m sorry I sent you away,” he said quietly. “It’s all my fault; I know that. I can’t undo it—but I’ll try to make up for it somehow.”

He still couldn’t think how—the money he’d earned had been confiscated by the state. Even the candlesticks had been taken by Javert.

But Robert had a plan. He couldn’t forget that he still had Robert’s friendship. And once Fantine’s year was over, Robert would see to it that Fantine and her child were cared for. Robert would do that if Valjean asked him to.

“Well, you can’t,” Fantine said. She brushed some grass off her skirt when she stood. “You’re a thief. A convict. The only thing I’ve ever done wrong was to try and care for my child, no matter what. You punished me for that. You, pretending to be so good—the saintly Père Madeleine—when in truth, you were no better than any other man. I know men like you. You think that you can smile at me and I’ll immediately forgive everything, do whatever you say, believe all your lies? I was that naive once, but I’ve learned that lesson. So stay away from me. If you touch me, I’ll find a knife somewhere. Do you understand me?”

It took a few seconds for Fantine’s words to catch up with Valjean, but when they did, he stumbled a step backwards, horrified.

“I wouldn’t—that is, I never—”

“Just leave her alone,” one of the other girls said. “You’ve done enough damage in this town already. Why’d you do it anyway? Why run off to Arras? Sophie and me, we’re out of work now. They’re going to sell the factory, and no one knows what’s going to happen.”

“That was stupid,” Sophie agreed. “Javert wouldn’t have ever known. And old Madame Victurnien? I’ve never seen that dragon so happy—but now she’s without work, too, just like Fabs and me.”

“She says she’s going to live with her sister in Étaples if no one buys the factory. Well, they probably deserve her.”

Fantine’s friends laughed.

Valjean was still staring at Fantine, feeling horror creep up inside him. Had she thought, back when he’d still owned the factory, that he’d demand such things of her? She’d smiled at him sometimes, he remembered that. Now, with Javert’s constant gaze resting upon him with relentless heaviness, it made him shudder to think that she’d felt as he had—ever aware of the fact that the man gazing at him wielded power he had no choice but to yield to.

“You’re in no danger from me,” he said hoarsely, swallowing. “And there’s no need to serve my food—if you’d prefer, I can eat once you’re done.”

Fantine scoffed. “It’s not like you eat with us anyway. Better food in Javert’s quarters, I would think. Isn’t that right?”

One of the women looked up sharply at her words, and as she studied him, Valjean thought that he could decipher something like pity in her eyes.

Hastily, he averted his gaze, his stomach churning at the thought that half the town might already be aware of the way he offered himself to Javert. For all he knew, Javert boasted of his surrender to all his friends.

And still—even that was a price Valjean would be willing to pay. He’d had no friends in the hulks—nothing but the shared, grinding misery that had crushed all human emotion. He needed no friends in Montreuil either.

All that was done to him, Fantine was spared. That was why he surrendered himself. That was why he was so willing.

Still clutching the wet shirts to his chest, he fled the willow and the women sitting beneath, following the empty road back to Montreuil while in the distance, the bells of Saint-Saulve began ringing once more.

The conversation with Rivette had been enlightening—at least in so far that Javert was now more convinced than ever that if his arrest of Jean Valjean led to a transfer to Paris, he would have little difficulty progressing further.

Chief Inspector Gisquet, it seemed, had political ambitions as well—dreams that might have been out of the reach of most men in his position, but Gisquet had influential friends. His brother, of a more martial nature than the Chief Inspector, had been rewarded for his heroic deeds on the battlefield with a title by the Emperor. This Baron Gisquet’s son, having made a fortune at the bourse, was betrothed to a young woman who brought no money with her, but a title and a mansion in the Rue du Bac in the fashionable Faubourg St Germain.

Rivette had not known the details, but it was also said that the Chief Inspector had personally intervened in a recent case involving this family to save a member of the government from public embarrassment. Now, if Rivette was to be believed, the entire office whispered that the Chief Inspector would soon be elevated to the political sphere with the position of Secretary to the Prefect. And from there, with such influential men behind him, it was not far to the office of Prefect of Police…

This ambition was something Javert well understood. Furthermore, there had been a noticeable softening in Gisquet towards him after the spectacular case of the mayor of Montreuil, for which even the papers had found nothing but praise for the diligent work of the police.

Thus, Gisquet and he might be well suited to each other—and Gisquet’s promotion might well be turned into a promotion for Javert as well. Now that he had walked through the halls of the Prefecture once more, he ached for the authority the Chief Inspector wielded. To have a certain amount of authority in a provincial town like Montreuil was one thing—but to have those spies who had openly sneered at him stand up straight and take his orders, surely that would be a delight even greater than Valjean’s sullen surrender.

***

Noiraude was wet with sweat once more when he finally entered Montreuil. The sun had started to sink below the horizon; the last rays of sunlight set the spire of Saint-Saulve aflame. After Javert had left the boy who tended to the horses of the station-house with instructions to feed and water her well and let her rest the next day, he made his way over to the barracks.

There, the men and women were gathered around a small table, smiling and laughing—and Valjean was missing.

Javert frowned. “Where’s Valjean?” he demanded suspiciously.

The servants of the town had fallen silent upon his entrance. One of them nodded towards a door that led back into one of the bedrooms.

“Fetch him.”

A moment later, Valjean appeared. He seemed unsurprised by Javert’s presence.

“Hurry up,” Javert said brusquely. “Go and fetch my dinner from Madame Ringot.”

“Yes, sir.” Valjean calmly inclined his head.

The other men and women remained silent, and after one last suspicious look at them, Javert turned around to finally retire to his apartment. Valjean seemed to have hurried indeed; he entered only a few minutes after him, carrying a small iron pot the cook must have used to keep his dinner warm for his return.

Exhausted, Javert had sat down in the armchair by the stove. After Valjean had placed the pot on the table, he quietly came towards Javert and went to his knees without another order. Javert’s boots were dusty from the road and the long hours on horseback; Valjean grabbed hold of them and eased them off Javert’s feet. He set them aside, a questioning look in his eyes as he glanced at Javert.

“Leave them,” Javert murmured tiredly. “Clean them later. I want you at my side when I eat.”

Valjean nodded, looking unsurprised. When Javert stood, he readily came forward to take his coat. He hung it by the door and fetched Javert’s slippers, and then quickly set the table, pouring Javert a glass of wine before he served him the meal the cook had kept waiting for him all evening.

Javert was so tired he couldn’t even say whether the sparse bits of meat he found in the stew were pork or mutton, but the food was warm and hearty, served with half a loaf of a white bread to mop up the rich liquid. Javert sighed when his hunger was finally satisfied, then amused himself by feeding the remaining bread to Valjean, bit by bit.

To be surrounded by the sounds of the city, so different and yet so similar to the city of his youth…

He saw more clearly than ever the path that opened before him if he was just disciplined enough to devote himself to walk it against any obstacles. And now, there was Rivette, from whom he could glean information that would make his ambitions somewhat easier to achieve.

There’d been an excitement in that which he hadn’t felt since that moment he’d first laid eyes upon the mayor of Montreuil and seen the game that was about to start.

Still, even after all these days of having Valjean in his power, there was an almost electric sensation that overwhelmed Javert’s senses at the sight of Valjean’s shorn head, that strong neck bending, feeling lips warm and soft against his skin as Valjean took the offered morsels with the carefulness of a domesticated animal.

After the bread was gone, he trailed his hand over Valjean’s head again, lingering at his neck, his thumb stroking gently along a tendon.

“I hope you behaved while I was gone.”

It was strangely soothing to run his hand over the vulnerable skull, the skin warm beneath his touch. Valjean still flinched when his fingers found an old scar, but he seemed less tense.

“Get me more wine. And the letters that came while I was gone,” Javert demanded.

Despite his exhaustion, Javert at last moved back to his armchair by the fire. Tiredly sipping his wine, he went through the correspondence, while Valjean meanwhile settled on the floor with his dirty boots. It did not take long to read his letters; when Javert at last looked up, Valjean had finished brushing the dried mud from the leather and was now polishing them with a grease-stained cloth.

There was something strangely vulnerable to the lines of the strong body bowed over his work. Despite the strength of the broad shoulders and arms, Valjean’s neck was bent, shorn head and nape exposed to Javert’s gaze, for Valjean wore no cravat with his simple shirt of cotton.

It occurred to Javert all of a sudden how strange it was that this man, robbed of the rank he had so falsely inhabited, still exuded such a beguiling grace instead of the bestial roughness of the hulks. He’d thought to see Valjean degraded. Instead, even when Valjean had been bent over his bed with his buttocks exposed to Javert’s belt, his eyes wet with tears, there’d been something about him that intrigued Javert and fanned the hunger for his surrender.

“You’re a strange one, aren’t you?” he murmured as he stared at Valjean.

Valjean’s shoulder hunched at the address. A moment later, he hesitantly looked up.

“You’ve changed since the hulks. I really do believe that you yourself believed you were this Madeleine.” Javert shook his head, quietly surprised anew. “What were you in the hulks? An angry beast with no intelligence. But there’s some reason in you now. You’ve taught yourself enough to fool an entire town. Enough to fool yourself, maybe. Not me. But still. There’s reason in you. Reason that I believe understands who you are, and what your place is—but it struggles against that mulish obduracy.”

Valjean watched him from those silent eyes, the lines around his mouth deepening as his lips tightened, his eyes narrowing. Still, he didn’t speak out. Javert wondered for a moment whether that was already a result of his discipline.

He doubted that lesson would last. Still, Valjean could be taught, he’d proved that.

After a moment, when Javert didn’t speak, Valjean took up his work once more, but the formerly relaxed body now held itself tensely, the shorn head carefully averted so that Javert could not see his eyes as Valjean rubbed grease into the cleaned leather until it shone again.

At last, when the boots were spotless and yet Valjean still kept polishing, Javert spoke up again.

“Put that away,” he said. “Then come here.”

Valjean moved obediently enough, although the tension in his body hadn’t abated when he approached Javert. Javert smiled and allowed his legs to spread open, then pointed to the floor in front of him. His eyes still wary, Valjean sank to his knees. His head came to the height of Javert’s chest, who was amused to see Valjean’s gaze flicker instinctively towards his groin.

Observing Valjean had made him harden a little; still, he was exhausted after two long days in the saddle, and the wine hadn’t helped. Even so, he pressed the heel of his hand against himself, the motion more comforting than arousing, although there was pleasure in seeing Valjean’s eyes flicker down again, his pupils widening.

“Open your mouth,” Javert said.

This time, he could see Valjean visibly struggling.

“Oh, I’m not going to force you.” Javert reached out to trace Valjean’s bottom lip appreciatively while he ground his palm against himself. “You’ll offer it eventually. Once reason has won and you’re no longer blinded by that foolish stubbornness. You already know this mouth is mine, and you’ll offer it to me without that sullen look on your face. Willingly. Happily.”

Valjean stiffened, but even so he didn’t pull away. Still smiling, Javert touched Valjean’s tongue, tracing over it with two fingers, which Valjean allowed for all that his eyes had gone dark with that old stubbornness again.

Valjean’s tongue was soft and hot, and he suffered the intimate touch as well as his gelding would have. All in all, Javert thought, Valjean had been pleasing enough so far. He hadn’t acted up while Javert had been gone, which he had wondered about. But in that case, Gilbert would have had him whipped, or left chained in the barracks with a report on Javert’s desk.

Javert leaned back in his armchair again, releasing Valjean’s mouth as he studied him.

“Kiss me,” he then said.

The command seemed to confuse Valjean. Once again he hesitated, wary eyes meeting Javert’s in search of reassurance that he had heard right. When Javert remained relaxed, still smiling as he waited, Valjean faltered. Finally, his eyes still wary, he slowly came forward. It seemed to take ages until Valjean was at last close enough that he had to slightly tilt his head. Another heartbeat passed, and then Valjean’s mouth brushed against Javert’s.

For long moments, nothing else happened. There was only the chaste brush of Valjean’s lips against his own, the sensation of Valjean’s warm breath, and the scent of leather and grease that clung to him.

Finally, when Javert made no move, Valjean slowly pulled back, his browns drawn together, his eyes questioning.

“Not like that,” Javert said hoarsely. “Kiss me like you mean it. Kiss me the way I kiss you.”

Valjean swallowed. As Javert watched, his tongue came out to moisten his lips as if to stall for time. At last, Valjean came forward uncertainly, his hands on the arms of the chair, his waist between Javert’s spread thighs. Then their lips met once more. For a heartbeat, nothing happened—and then, just as hesitantly, Javert felt Valjean’s tongue nudge at his lips.

When Javert allowed his lips to part, Valjean’s tongue slid into his mouth, still as wary as a shy animal. Reluctantly, it slid against Javert’s own tongue, who made a soft sound of approval deep in his throat.

It was strange. Javert had half wondered whether giving Valjean the illusion of agency would rouse the old aggression in him—an aggression which had broken forth only days ago, after all. But there was nothing aggressive in this kiss. Valjean kissed as timidly as if he’d never done such a thing before. There was nothing seductive in him.

Javert allowed Valjean to set the pace, making no move of his own to take the lead, too intrigued by Valjean’s shyness and the undeniable pleasure of seeing this wary, stubborn man forced to actively kiss him instead of passively surrendering to Javert’s touch.

There was a great pleasure in seeing Valjean’s resistance wear away, bit by bit.

At last, his mouth filled by the taste of Valjean, Valjean’s tongue still in his mouth, Javert reached out and pressed his hand against Valjean’s chest. Valjean flinched at the unexpected touch, so that Javert’s lips twitched against Valjean’s mouth. Truly, Valjean was more skittish than a whipped horse.

After a moment, when nothing else happened, Valjean hesitantly began to kiss him again, his lips swollen and wet against Javert’s mouth. Javert spread his palm flat against Valjean’s chest. Just as he had expected, Valjean’s heart was racing in his chest, thudding against his palm. As wary as Valjean was—surely that wasn’t fear.

He reached down to gently press his hand against Valjean’s trousers and found his suspicion confirmed.

Valjean was half hard, and when Javert gently tightened his fingers around him, Valjean gasped a pained sound into his mouth. For a moment, Javert amused himself with slowly stroking Valjean’s cock, feeling it harden just as he could feel Valjean struggle not to pull back. He chased Valjean’s tongue back into his own mouth, sliding his fingers around the head of Valjean’s cock, then pushed his fingers into Valjean’s trousers.

“Do you want it?” he murmured against his lips, then laughed, hoarse and breathless, when Valjean finally pulled back.

“Do I have a choice, sir?” Valjean said. His lips were dark, gleaming with saliva; as Javert stared at him, he flushed and raised the back of his hand to his lips.

“If you want a beating, you just need to ask for it.” Javert laughed softly. When Valjean remained silent, Javert reached out to run his own finger along Valjean’s wet mouth. “You’re so shy. Not much kissing in the hulks then?”

Valjean stared at him again with that peculiar frown, then slowly shook his head.

Javert smiled. “Truly, I was the first to kiss you?”

After a moment, Valjean nodded shakily.

“I believe it. Don’t worry. You’ll come to enjoy it. You seem to like it well enough already.”

He cast a pointed look towards Valjean’s groin, and more heat rushed to Valjean’s cheeks.

Valjean was still kneeling between Javert’s spread legs. As he admired those bruised lips, Javert felt the weight of his authority and the power he wielded over this man rush through him once more like an intoxicating cordial. He could have anything he wanted of him. He could order Valjean even now to open his trousers and then teach him how to pay homage to Javert’s prick.

Still, there was something even more intoxicating about the sight of Valjean’s struggle and the way he slowly, inevitably surrendered himself to his fate.

“You have a sweet mouth,” Javert said softly. “It’s a shame it’s so filthy. But we’ll work on that. You’re smart enough to learn that lesson, aren’t you?”

Again Valjean struggled for a moment, then he swallowed and nodded. “Yes, sir.”

Javert smiled again. “Good. Open your mouth.”

Again Valjean’s eyes widened. No doubt he remembered the sting of the soap. But even so, after a moment his swollen lips parted in weary obedience, his eyes watching distrustfully as Javert reached into his pocket.

Javert pulled out the small tin of candied violets from Toulouse, then carefully took hold of one sugared flower and placed it on Valjean’s tongue. Valjean’s eyes were following his every movement—just as he had, once, when he’d been in chains and Javert had circled him like the wolf its prey.

But it was true: as wary as Valjean was, there was none of that bestial instinct in him now that had once watched Javert with eyes full of barely bridled rage. Valjean now had more of the skittishness of an untamed horse than the ferocity of the wolf.

Javert ran his thumb over Valjean’s swollen bottom lip. “Good,” he murmured warmly, curving his hand around Valjean’s bare nape again.

Slowly, with a frown still on his face, Valjean closed his mouth and began to suck on the candied violet.

Javert leaned back in his chair again, ignoring the pleasant fullness of his cock as he watched Valjean, whose eyes were still on him as he hesitantly tasted his sugared treat. If anything, his frown had deepened at the sweetness of it, but he didn’t move. He hadn’t even looked away.

Truly, there’d been a lot of progress made—and Javert had no doubt at all that sooner or later, he’d have everything he wanted from him. And Valjean would give it willingly, just as he’d promised.

Work, for once, was sweet. The month had stretched with endless sunshine and bright, blue skies, warm days and balmy nights, and while the farmers of the area were busy bringing in the harvest, Valjean had not been forced, as he had dreaded, to labor on the fields among men and women who had once looked up to him.

Instead, he and Caillot had been sent to cut grass on meadows that belonged to the town, which they later bundled, once it had dried, and carried to the small stable behind the station-house. The hayloft was well stocked now. It had been a good year, there would not be a need to buy additional hay for the winter.

Not that that was a concern of Valjean’s anymore. There would be a new mayor soon, who would face these decisions.

Valjean stretched in the dusty, golden light that filled the interior of the stable. His body ached pleasantly, his senses full of the sweet scent of hay and the warm scent of the horses. One of the horses nickered; when he turned, he saw that Doré had curiously stretched his head out from his box.

Valjean moved closer and ran his hand up the gelding’s nose. His golden fur was brilliant in the light that fell in through the wide open door. Curiously, Doré nosed at his shirt.

“I don’t have anything for you,” Valjean said in apology. “But there’ll be hay enough for winter.”

“Talking to your horse, Valjean?”

Valjean stiffened at the familiar voice. When he turned around, Javert was leaning against the doorway, arms crossed, watching him with a familiar, smug superiority.

When Valjean didn’t answer, Javert’s smile widened. “If you have the time to laze around here, you can make yourself useful. Brush him and get him ready for me. I want to take a look at those meadows before sunset.”

Quietly, Valjean did as he was told. Dust rose as he raked the brush over Doré’s coat. It rippled, dazzlingly bright in the sunlight. The gelding’s fur was warm to the touch, and he stood calmly as Valjean readied him for Javert, who watched without speaking.

It was almost comfortable. The realization made Valjean hesitate for a moment before he continued. But then, why wouldn’t it be? He’d never been afraid of work. There was nothing demeaning in this.

That part would come once the sun sank below the horizon and he’d find himself alone with Javert in his bedroom.

Javert stepped closer. Doré turned his neck towards him, nostrils widening as he eagerly inhaled. Javert reached into his pocket. A moment later, the gelding took a lump of sugar from his palm, exhaling in satisfaction as his teeth ground his treat. Javert ran his hand along his neck.

“The factory sold today,” he said conversationally. “Looks like they forgot to put you onto the list of the inventory.”

Valjean froze for a moment, then carefully forced himself to continue.

“Maybe the Prefecture has plans for you,” Javert murmured, straightening the gelding’s forelock, who snorted contentedly. “Or maybe they’ve forgotten about you. Given the size of this affair, I suppose you aren’t very important.”

Valjean ran his brush over Doré’s haunches until his fur gleamed like real gold, spotless and smooth. Javert had fallen quiet. He hadn’t moved away, but he also wasn’t continuing to speak.

A few silent minutes passed during which Valjean was achingly aware of Javert’s closeness and the small, quiet sounds of the horses. At last, when he straightened after having untangled bits of straw from Doré’s tail, he could hear Javert stepping closer. Javert’s hand came to rest on Valjean’s back. It was heavy and warm, even through the cotton of his shirt. As he stood silently, Javert’s hand splayed, his thumb tracing along his shoulder blade. Then it slid downward.

Valjean swallowed when he realized that he’d touched Doré just like this.

“Aren’t you curious who it sold to?” Javert asked.

He was close enough that Valjean could feel the heat of Javert’s breath against his nape. Javert’s hand was still sliding across his back, unhurriedly, just as it had slid along Doré’s neck with lazy admiration earlier.

“M. Robert bought it.” Javert huffed a soft laugh. “Even said he’d keep all the workers. You should have seen the town. They’re all hailing him as their savior. Give it a few week and no one will even remember that it once belonged to you.”

Valjean swallowed thickly. “I’m glad. M. Robert is a good person.”

“And quite interested in you the last time we met.”

Valjean didn’t have to turn around to know that Javert’s smile was widening.

“But if you think that you can appeal to him, you’re mistaken. He’s just given a little speech to everyone who’d gathered to hear the news about the factory. He apologized for falling prey to your lies. He took the blame for campaigning for you. And he also announced that he gives his support to M. Regnier as our next mayor.”

Valjean froze. Javert’s hand slid around his body, resting lightly against his chest as Javert moved even closer, so that Valjean found himself held in the mockery of an embrace.

“If you think that Robert is still so beguiled by you that he’d assist you in escaping your just punishment, you’re mistaken,” Javert murmured almost gently. “You understand that now, don’t you?”

Valjean exhaled after a long moment. “Yes, sir.”

It was for the best. It was what he’d wanted for Robert. And yet... there had been the note Robert had sent him. Had he changed his mind? Or was this part of Robert’s plan? He could not see how it might be. Regnier had been visibly upset when it was Valjean who had been made mayor. It was an honor he’d long coveted, and the position would surely have been his if Valjean had never settled in Montreuil.

In either case, there were other things to worry about. As long as Robert was prepared to assist Fantine and her child once her time was up, it didn’t matter so much what became of Valjean. His own punishment was earned, in the same way that Fantine’s wasn’t.

Javert’s hand rested against his stomach, warm and certain. Javert was warm against his back, too, his breath brushing against his nape. Held thus, Valjean could not help but think of the many nights he’d rested in Javert’s embrace just like this, Javert inside him. Even now, all it took was Javert’s touch to make his stomach contract, his breath speeding up as his body remembered the stretch, the overwhelming pleasure of Javert possessing him until he was panting, clawing at the bed like an animal.

His mouth went dry when Javert’s hand slid downward. Without a word, it slipped into his trousers. Javert made a soft, pleased sound when he found him half hard; in turn, a sound of breathless misery escaped Valjean when Javert’s fingers closed around him, his heart speeding up in anticipation.

Javert’s thumb sought out the tip of his cock, sliding around it; Valjean felt his balls ache in response, taut and eager, and he helplessly shifted beneath Javert’s touch.

Slowly, as if he had all the time in the world—as if someone couldn’t come in at any moment—Javert stroked him, Valjean bending his head and focusing on his harsh breathing. Doré was still standing patiently before him, unmoving as Javert’s hand slowly brought Valjean to life.

“There,” Javert said in the same calm, familiar tone with which he spoke to Doré. “You like that.”

Valjean shivered but didn’t answer, torn between wanting Javert to stop and the pleasurable ache building between his legs.

A moment later, Javert’s hand released him.

“Take off your shirt,” he said hoarsely, stepping back.

Hesitantly, Valjean turned around. His heart was racing in his chest. His lips were dry; he moistened them with his tongue as he looked warily at Javert.

Javert watched him, not speaking, his own eyes gleaming as he observed him. After a moment, very carefully not thinking, Valjean’s hands went to the hem of his shirt. Slowly, he pulled it off, keeping hold of it with one hand.

Javert stared at him. Finally, he came forward once more. He pressed his hand to Valjean’s chest, squeezing his muscles in appreciation, stroking up and down. Valjean could still hear himself panting for breath. It had been a long day of work in the sun; his skin was slick with sweat.

Both hands were now on him, following the lines of his chest, Javert’s eyes hot with intent. Valjean couldn’t look away as Javert’s hands explored him leisurely, appraising his strength.

“Truly, as strong as a Belgian stallion laboring in the fields,” Javert said hoarsely. The pad of his thumb grazed Valjean’s nipple. Valjean shuddered. Javert did it again.

The sensation was strangely electric, an aching pull that dropped low into his stomach. Valjean shifted, wanting to pull away, wanting to push forward into the touch. Javert’s thumb slowly circled his nipple, building pressure until Valjean exhaled heavily, his eyes closing as his body continued to thrum with nervous arousal.

“I could take you up into the hayloft. Would you like that?”

For a moment, Valjean refused to open his eyes, teetering on that edge where pleasure momentarily blocked out the shame of his surrender. A moment later, there was the sound of steps outside on the cobblestones of the courtyard. Flushing with heat, he hastily turned back to Doré, brushing the powerful haunches a second time while Javert laughed hoarsely.

“Another time then,” he murmured before he turned towards the door.

“Sir,” the familiar voice of Gilbert said.

Valjean kept brushing the gelding, praying that Gilbert had come with a message that would take Javert away from the stable. Instead, all he could hear was the welcoming nicker of the horses, and a box being opened at the other end of the stable.

“That’s enough,” Javert said after a moment. “Get him saddled.”

Valjean didn’t dare to stop to pull on his shirt once more. Instead, with it slung over his shoulder, he fetched the bridle, offering the bit to Doré on his palm, who took it willingly with a soft exhale of warm air. As Valjean closed the straps of leather, he could hear Javert chuckle softly. A moment later, a hand curved intimately around his hip and he felt Javert’s hot breath against his ear as he spoke.

“That’s what I call willingly.”

Valjean froze, his hand flat against the gelding’s neck, his stomach still taut with a sharp need that didn’t abate even now.

“Come on, hurry up,” Javert said more loudly a moment later. “You can accompany me to the meadows. The hayloft had better be full by the end of the week.”

When Valjean led a fully saddled Doré outside several minutes later, Gilbert was readying his own horse.

“Should be a good harvest this year, sir. Everyone says so. One of the miller’s apprentices was at the market this morning, says he can’t remember a year they’ve been so busy.”

“All the more reason to make certain this lot uses every single hour of good weather we’ve got,” Javert said in reply.

Silently, Valjean held Doré until Javert had mounted the gelding. He did not think he had anything to fear from Javert; they’d truly made good progress. Together with the hay that was currently drying in the sun, waiting to be bundled and carried up into the hayloft, they should have enough for the winter, although Valjean would be happy to keep going as long as there were meadows.

There was pleasure in the simple work, and although his hands and shoulders ached, it was a good day. It was utterly unlike the labor of Toulon. He worked in green meadows, beneath blue skies, the sun warm but not scalding his skin as it had in the south. He was bringing in a harvest of fragrant hay, provisions for the winter, and not mindlessly cutting rocks from morning to evening. And there were no guards to watch his every move, just the company of Caillot and the occasional appearance of one of Javert’s agents or a farmer to check on them.

If it wasn’t for his nights, he could have been almost happy.

***

There was another pot of barley stew awaiting them in the evening, carried home by the two women who were spending the week helping local farmers with the harvest.

Valjean was still washing the sweat and dust from his body when he heard the door to the barracks open. Hurriedly, he finished his washing and drew on clean clothes. Javert didn’t like to be kept waiting, and neither did the men he sent to fetch him in the evenings. But by the time he made it back into the small kitchen a minute later, the door was closed, and there was no one to be seen except for Caillot and both of the Fasquels.

“Seems like you’re in for a quiet evening for once,” Caillot said with a wry look. “She had it coming though.”

With sudden terror, Valjean realized that Fantine was nowhere to be seen.

“What do you mean?”

“Fantine gets to serve our Chief of Police tonight. To learn some proper manners, and how to respect authority,” Caillot said mockingly. “Tell me, Valjean, is that what he does? Teach you proper manners?”

Valjean didn’t reply. He stared at the empty chair, his throat closing as he was overwhelmed by sudden horror.

Impossible. Javert hadn’t once shown interest in her after Valjean had offered himself…

He clenched his hands, overwhelmed. There was nothing he could do, he knew that—it was Javert who held all the power here. But to think that he hadn’t only forced Fantine into a year of indentured servitude, but also…

He couldn’t taste any of the food as he ate mechanically. Afterward, he retired to his narrow bed. He tried to pray, but even that didn’t help; his heart was beating too fast, his chest tight. He couldn’t inhale enough air, and it felt as if there was a huge weight upon him, slowly crushing him.

It was many hours after sunset that he fell into an uneasy sleep from which he woke several times, haunted by dreams that made him shudder.

He was awake before the sun rose. Fantine didn’t return until they were all gathered in the kitchen, breaking their fast on bread and cheese. Valjean hadn’t touched his.

When the door opened at last, he felt his heart clench in his chest. Fantine didn’t look at him when she came in. Marie was the first to hurry to her side.

“Don’t ask,” Fantine said darkly.

A moment later, the door opened again. “Hurry up, you lot.” It was one of Javert’s men—Delrue, the agent Valjean liked least. He was very tall and lean, and prone to shout insults at them for all sorts of perceived slights.

Delrue closed the door with a loud bang after glowering at them, and Fantine hurriedly grabbed her breakfast. She still pointedly ignored Valjean, who could only watch her helplessly. How was it possible that just a day ago, he’d shivered, half wishing Javert would keep touching him?

Or perhaps, that was where he’d gone wrong. Had he told Javert that he wanted it, had he taken Javert’s hand and pulled him to the hayloft, might Fantine have been spared?

“Better be on your best behavior today, Fantine,” Caillot said with a raised brow. “Unless you enjoyed your lessons.”

Fantine gave him a devastating stare, then turned away to follow Delrue outside, shutting the door behind her with another loud bang.

Caillot chuckled. “I guess that’s a no.”

Valjean rose mechanically, realizing all of a sudden where he’d gone wrong. Javert might claim that he wanted his willing obedience—but that wasn’t why he’d singled out Fantine last night. It was because Fantine had acted up.

And there was a way to make certain that tonight, it was Valjean who’d be called to Javert’s apartment once more…

Javert was stretched out behind his desk. He’d just finished perusing the reports of the day—a vagrant had been arrested by Gilbert, and there had been a report of incendiary phrases used by one of the butcher’s apprentices in a wine-shop last night.

That would need further investigation. Tomorrow, he’d have to pay a visit to one of his informants, a man at home in Montreuil’s seedier taverns, who could be convinced with a small handful of coins to spend the coming nights listening to the conversations in the tavern known to be frequented by the butcher’s apprentices.

Javert had just finished putting the day’s reports away when the door to the station-house opened and Delrue came in, out of breath and red-faced.

“Sir,” he said sharply, without pausing to draw a breath, “it’s that convict, Valjean. He’s been picking a fight with one of the men. I saw him shouting at Gilbert myself. Would have had him whipped then and there, but—”

Javert hadn’t realized he was on his feet. “No. I’ll handle it myself.”

He could barely believe it. Weeks had passed since Valjean had been given into his power—weeks during which Valjean had been sullen, but remarkably obedient. It was true that Javert had wondered all along whether Valjean’s good behavior meant that sooner or later, some hidden plan would be revealed—but perhaps it was simpler than that. Perhaps Valjean had obeyed for as long as he could until his true nature showed itself once more.

It was curious. There was an actual sensation of disappointment at the thought. Valjean had done so well beneath his strict hand, for all that he’d needed to be encouraged along step by step.

But then, perhaps such setbacks had to be expected. Every now and then Valjean’s bestial nature would show, and he’d test the hand of his master. He’d be obedient enough again after a taste of the whip…

“Have him brought to me,” Javert said curtly, cleaning off his desk. The day’s work was done; the remaining work could wait another day. In any case, it was late. He would have retired to his own rooms soon enough. Valjean had merely given him a reason to finish for the day.

“Do you need any help with him, sir?” Delrue was asking. “I can bring him shackled—”

“Just bring him,” Javert snapped. “That’s all for today.”

“Yes, sir.”

There was some of that old sullenness in Valjean’s eyes when he finally stumbled into the room, Delrue asserting a firm grip on the back of his neck.

Javert had spent the preceding minutes contemplating his options. There was the whip, of course: Valjean knew the taste of it only too well. And yet it was too impersonal an implement for what Javert had in mind, and not suited to the severity of the infraction. Perhaps the time of the whip would come—Javert didn’t doubt that sooner or later, there’d be occasion for it.

For now, though, would not his belt do? Or perhaps a switch to break on Valjean’s back…

He was distracted from that line of thought by the sudden realization that Delrue was still in the room, leering at Valjean.

“That’s all, Delrue.” Javert waited until the man had left the station-house again before he stood and slowly approached Valjean.

“I think you know why you are here.”

Valjean’s jaw tightened and his nostrils flared. He remained silent. Javert couldn’t hold back a soft laugh at this enduring stubbornness.

“Tell me,” he said.

Valjean was glaring at him from heat-filled eyes. This was more like it—this was the Valjean he remembered from the hulks, with none of the false mayor’s meekness.

“I got into an argument, sir,” Valjean said, the word dripping with contempt. “Your men think they can treat me like an animal, but I’m no worse than they are. No worse than you.”

Javert drew in an amused breath, something in his stomach tightening with anticipation.

Seeing Valjean yield up his surrender step by hesitant step was sweet—but it would be just as sweet to crush this sudden rebellion in him.

“Go up into my rooms,” he said.

Valjean’s jaw clenched again, but after a moment, he obeyed. He was limping a little, favoring his right leg, Javert noticed. It was a pity the jail was occupied, otherwise he could have stripped him and strung him up there for an examination.

Once they had made it into his apartment at the top of the building, Javert closed the door and locked it. Then he leaned against the wall as he watched Valjean thoughtfully.

“Strip.”

Valjean turned to stare at him, his eyes for once filled with shame and hate.

“And if I won’t?”

“Then I’ll beat you and you’ll still strip, only you’ll be hurting.”

Valjean laughed despairingly. “You think I’m an animal,” he said in a low voice, “but it’s you who’s turning me into one. Sir.”

Nevertheless, his hands went to his shirt and pulled it off. A moment later, his trousers followed.

There was a nasty-looking bruise on his right leg. Had he started shouting at Delrue after the man had hit him, or had Delrue been beating him for his disobedience, Javert wondered, amused that it seemed to have taken only a few years of good living for Valjean to forget the discipline nineteen years in the hulks had instilled in him.

“Against the wall.”

Again there was a moment of hesitation. It was startling to see the difference between this sudden moodiness and the sweeter hesitation of the past days. Back then, there had been none of this obduracy in Valjean, and if he’d hesitated to kiss or to touch Javert, it had seemed to come from a genuine shyness, or a fear of the surrender he knew he’d have to give eventually.

These short moments of disobedience, on the other hand, had no such extenuating circumstances and seemed born only of that mulish resistance and hate of authority that was common to all the criminals Javert had seen end up in the prison hulks.

Valjean’s back was a latticework of old scars, stretching like a pale spiderweb across those broad shoulders. Javert raised a hand, then ran it down his back with deliberate slowness as Valjean shuddered. Just as slowly, Javert traced across the bruise that was beginning to bloom on his right thigh. Valjean made a pained sound, but didn’t try to move away.

“In the hulks, I thought this was a lesson impossible for you to learn.” Javert turned his attention to Valjean’s buttocks with appreciation. They were firm and round, and he dug his fingers into them before spreading them to bare Valjean’s hole. “Now, you’ve convinced me that you have reason enough to know better. Then why this sudden rebellion? You’ve managed to restrain yourself for all your years hiding in this town. But after a few weeks in my possession, you falter already.”

Valjean groaned when Javert ran a gloved finger down his crease. He rubbed it against the tight opening, then slowly forced it in dry, the muscle clenching desperately around him before it relaxed in sullen obedience. There was an old lesson Valjean’s body had learned well.

He hadn’t kept up the daily searches—Valjean hadn’t seemed desperate enough to try and escape. And of course, escape was impossible, here where everyone knew him, and would only make matters worse for him. Now, though, Javert penetrated him deeply while Valjean’s bare body shuddered.

The tight hole didn’t contain any hidden files or weapons. He hadn’t thought it would, but when he withdrew at last, Valjean’s head was bent, and there was a thin layer of sweat gleaming on his skin.

“Even your gelding knows to obey, Valjean, and he’s a beast, with less reason than you.” Javert laughed softly, reaching between Valjean’s legs to nudge his balls. It earned him a protesting sound, but Valjean immediately ceased any attempt to move away when Javert closed his fingers around the tender globes in warning.

“Is that it?” he murmured. “Is that why he’s so well-behaved, and you’re so stubborn?”

Valjean was breathing heavily. It seemed he’d already realized his folly in rebelling against Javert. Wasn’t that always the case with men like this?

“But as you’re so insistent that you’re no animal, I’ll expect you to control yourself. Unlike an animal, you know better. Don’t you?”

Valjean’s shoulders were rising and falling as he struggled to breathe. “Yes, sir,” he said at last, already less rebellious than before.

Javert smiled as he took a step back and loosened his belt. “You’ll learn,” he said. “It’s the part of you that’s all beast that’s acting up. But I’ll drive it out of you yet. You’ll be grateful in the end. I think a part of you already knows that’s how it has to be. Don’t you?”

This time, there was no answer, but Javert hadn’t expected it. It would come—in a few weeks, perhaps, or months. Valjean was stubborn. But he’d learn.

Javert drew the smooth, supple leather through his hand. Then he raised it, and when the belt came down, the surprise forced an agonized sound from Valjean’s throat.

Javert smiled. “Hold still.”

Again he raised his hand, and again the belt fell. Valjean shuddered as another stripe of red sprang up on his buttocks.

Slowly and methodically, Javert kept going. Every now and then, he shifted his stance, raining blows down on the back of Valjean’s thighs which made him wince and produce sounds that sounded suspiciously close to sobs. When the belt hit Valjean’s back instead, his entire body seemed to shudder, but all that escaped him were hoarse groans.

At last, Javert ran a thoughtful hand over the curve of Valjean’s buttocks again. The pale skin was now a bright red and hot to the touch. Javert dug his fingers into the temptingly round globes again and Valjean gasped in pain.

“And that was only my belt,” Javert said. “You remember what the whip feels like, don’t you? Thin leather that rips straight through your skin?”

Valjean was breathing heavily, his head hanging low, his arms tense where they held him up against the wall.

“I do,” he murmured a moment later, his voice soft with defeat.

Javert smiled and took a step closer. “Now. Was that worth it?” he asked, taking note of the way Valjean shivered at the sensation of his breath against his skin.

Valjean didn’t answer this time. Javert allowed his hand to slide around, resting it against Valjean’s stomach to feel the powerful body still heaving for breath. Valjean was slick with sweat. When Javert let his hand trail down, he found him soft, as he had expected.

“No, it wasn’t,” he answered for Valjean, using his fingertips to stroke along the soft, vulnerable length.

The only sound in the room was Valjean’s labored breathing. Valjean didn’t move when Javert patiently caressed him to hardness, smoothing back the foreskin at last to circle his fingers around the slick glans. Valjean’s breathing was loud and fast, and Javert rubbed his fingertip against the small slit until another drop of wetness escaped.

“There,” he murmured. “You know how to be good.”

Javert moved even closer. Valjean groaned softly when Javert pressed against the hot welts on his back, but he remained flushed and eager in Javert’s hand. Idly, Javert let his fingers trail down to his balls again, and Valjean gasped a sound of protest.

Javert felt his lips twitch. He pressed his mouth to the vulnerable skin behind Valjean’s ear.

“I want to fuck you, like this, with your skin hot from my belt. You’ll let me, won’t you?”

He curled his fingers lightly around Valjean’s slick cock again, and Valjean’s hips instinctively came forward as he thrust himself into Javert’s grip.

“What was that?”

Valjean groaned, rubbing himself against Javert’s hand.

“Do you want me to fuck you, Valjean? Are you going to lie down on my bed for me, the way you used to?”

Valjean’s head hung even lower, the muscles of his shoulders tense knots of steel as he panted, his cock sliding through the sheath of Javert’s fist.

“Yes, sir,” he gasped at last, his voice thick with tears. When Javert experimentally let go of him and took a step back, Valjean straightened painfully, still breathing hard.

He didn’t turn to look at Javert, who felt a momentary disappointment at having been denied the sight of his tears. But the sight that followed was just as intoxicating: Valjean moving onto his bed, his body still tense with pain as he moved to his hands and knees, his thighs sliding apart despite the bright stripes of red left by Javert’s own hand.

Javert moistened his lips as he stared, breathless at the sight.

Then he advanced, carelessly opening his trousers. He was achingly hard, his own prick already gleaming with the slickness of arousal, just like Valjean’s. When he knelt behind Valjean, Valjean shuddered but remained in his position.

Javert nudged his thighs a little wider apart. Valjean’s hole was red, a little swollen from his earlier attention.

“I could fuck you like this,” Javert murmured. “Isn’t that how you did it in the hulks? Nothing but spit to ease the way—and you’d let me, wouldn’t you?”

A shudder ran through Valjean at his words—but strangely enough, instead of protesting or perhaps begging, Valjean pressed back against him.

“What,” Javert asked despite his earlier teasing, surprised at last by Jean Valjean. “Is that how you want it?”

He’d thought to play with Valjean a little until he gave in and admitted that he wanted to be fucked using the oil. Instead, Valjean reached back and held himself open for Javert, showing off the tight, swollen muscle.

“I do,” Valjean said, his own fingers digging into his reddened skin. “Like this.”

“Really,” Javert murmured, running his hand thoughtfully down Valjean’s thigh. The welts were hot beneath his fingers, but although Valjean trembled, he didn’t move.

Then he shrugged. It made little difference to him, even though he still couldn’t see why Valjean would ask for something that would make it more painful for him. In any way, Valjean hadn’t earned a reprieve with his behavior; he’d be back working tomorrow, whether his arse was sore or not, and by this point surely he knew better than to imagine that Javert would be lenient with him tomorrow.

Javert spit into his hand, then smoothed it over himself. “I guess you’ll be even tighter like this, hmm? I’ll enjoy it either way.”

He patted Valjean’s reddened backside, then pushed the head of his cock against the clenched muscle. Valjean groaned softly when he pushed in, the tight hole yielding only reluctantly to him. Without the slickness of the oil, it took more force to open him up; Valjean was so tense that it was almost painful, and Javert could force himself no further than halfway inside.

With an appreciative groan, he leaned forward and pressed his lips to Valjean’s shoulder, then began to take him with shallow thrusts. Little by little, he felt himself sliding deeper inside, Valjean’s insides clutching at him as if his body wanted to keep him there, despite the soft, aching sounds Valjean was making.

When Javert reached for Valjean’s cock, he found it in a sad, half-soft state, although now it began to reluctantly fill again with every shallow thrust.

“You still feel good,” he murmured, rubbing his thumb against the sensitive head until Valjean moaned helplessly and pressed back against him. “Yes, that’s it. You’ll take it all before you get to come.”

It took longer this way, but by the time he could finally bury himself to the hilt in the body that had only yielded itself with such reluctance, Valjean was back to full, hot hardness in his hand.

“See. I always get what I want.”

Valjean groaned in response, his body slick with sweat, his cock leaking wetness over Javert’s hand.

Javert kept his hand on him as he fucked him. In turn Valjean’s hips worked with him, alternately thrusting forward into his grip and pushing back to impale himself deeper on Javert. The feeling of the tight, hot clasp of Valjean’s body were intoxicating—but the sight of Valjean yielding to him, just as Javert had always known he would, was even sweeter.

Valjean came with a muted sob when Javert spilled himself inside him, and in reward Javert stroked him through his release until Valjean had stopped trembling around him. Then, at last, Javert released him to tiredly wrap his arm around Valjean chest, trailing his lips across the cluster of scars that adorned his right shoulder.

“There. Was that so hard? Perhaps the next time, you’ll think about whether your little rebellion is really necessary. Unless you like it like this, with nothing to ease the way?”

It seemed that the rebellious mood had left Valjean together with his climax. He didn’t reply, even though he gasped again when Javert finally pulled out of them, the motion eased now by his own release.

Valjean’s hole looked swollen and red, and when Javert touched him thoughtfully, Valjean made another miserable sound.

“Really, what was that all about?”

Valjean didn’t answer. Javert huffed an amused laugh against his skin. “You’re a strange man, Jean Valjean, do you know that? But you can’t outsmart me. I know men like you.”

Satisfied when Valjean let his head hang morosely, Javert at last moved away to collapse on the bed with a satisfied moan.

“Get me cleaned up,” he said lazily.

Valjean gave him another of those wounded looks from wet eyes, as if he thought that those might work on Javert. Javert felt his lips twitch at the sight.

“And then you’ll get off my bed and sleep where you belong. Even if you wanted to, you don’t deserve my bed tonight.”

Valjean swallowed before he nodded. “Yes, sir,” he said, and then did as he was told.

Javert watched from half-lidded eyes, still half-amused, half curious. He wasn’t entirely certain what had been behind Valjean’s strange behavior tonight. But he was a patient man. He could wait.

In the end, he’d have Valjean—all of him: his body, his full surrender, and all of his secrets.

The weather remained sunny for the rest of the month. Often now they were sent to mend the roads, bridges or crumbling walls that slowed the carts bringing in the year’s bountiful harvest, whereas Fantine and Marie would assist with the harvest or help keeping the laborers fed.

Valjean tried his best to keep focused on the task at hand. In the bright sunshine, it was easy to forget the nights in Javert’s apartment. The country all around him was beautiful at this time of year, the river, forest and fields more familiar after these years than the place he’d grown up in. The simple, hard work offered a satisfaction that the mayor’s office had lacked. There was no need to hide behind smiles out here—and no need to fear Javert’s suspicious looks now.

“They’d better hurry up,” Caillot said with a frown at the sky. “I wouldn’t be surprised at all if the heat breaks at the end of the week. There’s a storm coming, mark my words.”

The sky was blue and there wasn’t a single sign of thunderclouds on the horizon, but Valjean felt an inner sense of unease that agreed with Caillot. As warm as the month had been, it couldn’t last. They’d brought in the harvest before the rain could fall: bulging sacks of wheat and oat, heavy bundles of straw and hay for the winter. And now that the initial rush of the harvest was over, the heat began to feel oppressive—no breeze coming in from the ocean, no wind bringing rain.

Valjean, who had lived in this rural town for many years, who had grown up among the endless forests of Brie and the orchards of Faverolles, silently agreed with Caillot. Such summer heat could only mean one thing. There was a thunderstorm coming, soon enough, with wind and rain and perhaps even hail.

And yet, the harvest was in. The farmers would have to keep an eye on the livestock, and perhaps there would be further bridges to repair for them—but all in all, Montreuil had rarely been in a better position to weather an autumn storm.

It was three days later when Valjean began to realize that the oppressive summer heat might indeed be coming to an end. Javert had sent him out with Caillot and Fasquel to repair a fence where only a day ago, one of farmer Hubert’s bulls had escaped and given chase to the post coach, scaring the travelers and scoring the wood of the coach with his horns.

The pasture ran along the forest, leafy boughs shadowing a stretch of fence that was unfortunately still whole. The bull’s escape had taken place where the fence followed the road the coach took. The three of them had been laboring in the scalding sun all noon, digging holes and erecting new, sturdy poles that would be able to withstand the bull’s anger.

“Coming, Valjean?” Caillot asked after giving the fence a last shake. The poles didn’t budge.

Valjean shook his head. “There’s a plank back there that’s beginning to rot. I’ll fix it while I’m here. You know Javert will blame me if that bull breaks through there next.”

Caillot laughed hoarsely in acknowledgment of the truth of his words. “Don’t take too long. If he’s asking after you, we’ll tell him where you are.”

Valjean was flushed from the exertion and the heat. He was glad of it now, because it hid the way his cheeks instinctively began to heat.

“Tell him if you want. I’m fixing the fence; it’s what he told me to do.”

“It’s your funeral.” Caillot chuckled but left it at that, picking up their tools before he and Fasquel slowly began to make their way back to the town.

Valjean walked to where he’d spied the rotting wood earlier. It didn’t take long to pry the plank free and affix a new one in its place. Then, after he’d carefully looked around to make certain that he was alone, he quickly slipped beneath the fence.

Beyond was a small brook. The musical tinkling of the rivulet had drawn his attention it earlier. Now, he hastily pulled off his clothes, making use of the rare privacy to wash himself.

The stones beneath his feet were cold and slippery. When he waded a little further upstream, he found the rivulet getting a little deeper where several large stones had created a natural barrier, behind which the brook formed a shallow pool. Even there, the water only reached to his knees, but it was refreshingly cold after the day of hard work in the sun.

With deep regret, Valjean forced himself to abandon the pool mere minutes later. It would not do to arouse Javert’s suspicions—not when all he had desired was a moment of solitude, to wash himself without the constant eyes on him. These moments of freedom were rare enough. He knew that Javert only trusted him with them because escape from this part of the land where everyone knew him was impossible. Still, this freedom was more than he’d had in the hulks He would be a fool to risk it all.

When he made his way back out onto the fenced meadow to gather his tools, the air seemed to stand still. The sky above him looked strangely glassy. He hesitated for a moment, casting a worried look at the sky.

And then there was a sudden breeze—the first hint of wind he’d felt all week. In the distance, he could now see clouds begin to form—even in the moment he had stood there to watch, they seemed to visibly advance towards him.

Valjean shoved his hammer and nails into his bag and began to make his way back towards Montreuil.

Even before he’d made it halfway back, the temperature had dropped noticeably. The wind had picked up. There was a strange tension in the air; Valjean could almost taste it on his tongue. It was as if all of nature had come to a nervous standstill around him, waiting in fearful anticipation.

The once so distant clouds now covered the sky, grown to an enormous size. They were dark, and once or twice, he’d heard the low roll of distant thunder. Hubert’s irritable bull, a proud beast with a muscular body that gleamed in the summer heat, stood on the other side of the fence, glaring at him. At the first sound of thunder, it lowered its head, shaking it in irritation.

Valjean bit his lips as he glanced at the sky again. He wouldn’t make it back to Montreuil before the storm broke. There was at least half an hour of walking left, perhaps more…

Just when he’d stopped to look around, wondering if he should search for shelter instead, there was the sound of approaching hoofbeats. Valjean drew himself up straight, the hair at the back of his neck pricking up.

He wasn’t even surprised when the horse that finally came around the corner was Javert’s bay mare.

Valjean waited quietly for Javert to draw up by his side. Behind the fence, the farmer’s fractious bull exhaled loudly, pawing at the ground; Javert’s mare cocked an ear in its direction, then ignored the bull, too well-trained to be distracted from her task.

Valjean smiled wearily. He didn’t doubt that Javert wished he were as docile as that horse.

“You didn’t come back with the others.”

Valjean shrugged in response, suddenly too weary of this game to pretend. “There was another part of the fence to fix. I could see the wood was rotting. I didn’t need their help for it, so I told them to go back—and to say that I’d be along shortly, if someone asked.”

Javert gave him a dark look, although the tools Valjean still carried and the fact that he was indeed on his way back from the broken pasture fence seemed to be enough to keep Javert from calling him a liar.

“You’re wet,” Javert pointed out next.

Self-conscious, Valjean smoothed a hand along the stubble growing atop his head.

“I washed in the rivulet after I was done, sir,” he said tiredly. “I was sweaty.”

Javert’s eyes continued to linger on him, their weight as oppressive as the summer heat.

For a moment, Valjean thought that Javert would accuse him of trying to bide his time out here in order to escape whatever work was waiting for him next. Instead, Javert remained silent, his eyes raking up and down Valjean body as his tongue moistened his lips.

They watched each other, neither of them speaking. Valjean could feel pressure building inside him, something tightening in his stomach at the thought of what that gaze meant for him.

The mare’s ears turned back with uncertainty, unsettled by the way Javert’s hands visibly tightened around the reins. Then the wind increased in force, a sudden gust picking up leaves that had only begun to turn yellow, sending them flying through the air between them. Instinctively, Valjean looked at the sky, which had turned dark with a frightening rapidity.

At the very same moment, a flash of lightning rent the sky, followed by a boom of thunder so loud that it seemed to make the earth tremble beneath him.

A heartbeat later Valjean realized that the tremor hadn’t been caused by the thunder.

A loud crash made Valjean turn in instinct, only to see the maddened bull attack the fence once more. Wood splintered as the beast’s horns gouged the planks that contained it—and then another boom of thunder followed, as loud as a cannon, and with it the scream of a horse.

Startled by the bull’s sudden attack, Javert’s horse had reared up. Javert was still on its back, his face a grimace of furious determination as he clung to the mare, tightening his grip on the reins.

Again the bull crashed into the fence, which had resisted his madness so far. Still on her hind legs, Noiraude took a jump to the side.

Everything happened so fast that Valjean was still frozen, watching in sudden horror when one of the horse’s hind legs lost its footing. In her terror, she’d tried to escape the bull—and her jump had led her perilously close to a small ditch into which her left hoof was now sliding. Even as Valjean watched, she lost her balance and went down.

“Javert!”

Valjean was by his side in a second, taking care to avoid the panicked horse’s flailing limbs, praying that Javert wouldn’t be crushed beneath her as she toppled. But Javert, it seemed, had realized what was happening as quickly as Valjean.

Just in time, he’d jumped from her back. Javert hit the grass, the impact forcing a groan from him—but even then, he didn’t let go of the reins which he still held clutched in one hand.

Javert was up before Valjean could reach out for him. Ignoring both Valjean and the bull, he grasped Noiraude’s reins with both hands, planting himself in front of the panicking horse’s head.

“Come on, get up!” Still panting for breath, Javert gave the reins an encouraging pull. “Get up!”

Noiraude snorted, the white visible as her large eyes rolled in terror. Foam flecked her mouth as she let out an inhuman groan. Valjean’s eyes went back to the bull, half expecting to see the beast break free at last.

But even though wood had splintered from the planks he had attacked, the fence still stood. The beast behind it was staring at them from crazed eyes, pawing the ground as foam dripped from its own mouth.

How much longer would the fence hold?

“Up, Noiraude—yes, just like that!”

Behind him, Javert was still encouraging the horse to gather her legs beneath her.

Another flash of lightning filled the sky with a brilliant glare, followed almost immediately by the booming thunder that had set off the bull’s madness in the first place.

With a low sound of anger, the beast took a step back, still eyeing Valjean as if it blamed him for the storm—and then, as if a dam had burst, rain began to fall so heavily that Valjean was soaked to the bone within a heartbeat.

The bull shook his head again, looking confused. The rain came down with such force that it was hard to see. For a moment, it seemed as if the bull would charge again, and Valjean took an instinctive step towards Javert—but with a frustrated grunt, the animal at last ambled away to where, perhaps, a shelter was waiting for him.

They needed shelter as well, Valjean realized when another jagged bolt of lightning lit up the sky. It was dangerous to be out in the open in a storm like this—and the wind was still picking up in force.

Valjean gritted his teeth, then slid into the ditch which the horse was still struggling to escape.

Praying that in her terror, she wouldn’t kick him with her iron-shod hooves, he turned and pressed his back against her rump. Javert was still encouraging her to get out of the ditch, and finally, with a deep groan that made her body shudder, Noiraude found her footing in the slippery mud. With a jump, she made it up onto the bank of grass where Javert was standing, who still kept a tight grip on her reins. When Valjean clambered tiredly after her, he saw that her entire body was shaking. Worse, she kept lifting one of her hind legs.

Javert encouraged her to take a few steps forward, then cursed. The mare still refused to put weight on her leg. As Valjean watched, Javert moved to crouch by her side despite the pouring rain, feeling along her leg. When he rose, his face was grim.

“Not broken,” he said at Valjean’s questioning glance. “But she’s hurt herself regardless. We’ll have to lead her.”

Just then, another boom of thunder made the ground shake. Noiraude’s ears were flat against her head as she danced on three legs before the pain of her injury forced her to stand still again, her head hanging low.

“We need to find shelter,” Valjean said.

Just then, another bolt of lightning arched across the sky—and this time, another bolt split from it and raced towards the ground, where it hit a tree in the forest that stretched beyond the pastures.

“Quickly,” Valjean added, casting a worried look at the open fields and meadows surrounding them.

There was the occasional tree growing by the side of the path that led back to Montreuil, but nevertheless the land was mostly flat here. It offered no shelter from the storm—and worse, it made them targets for the violent lightning that made the air taste acrid on his tongue.

“It’s because of you that we’re in this mess,” Javert said. “Don’t think I’ll forget that.”

Valjean didn’t bother biting back the wry smile that spread across his face in resignation. Trust Javert to find a way to blame him even in a situation like this.

“The storm is picking up in force, sir.”

Once more loud thunder filled the air as if to underline his words. Noiraude shuddered, and Javert ran his hand along her neck.

“Come along then,” Javert said. His heavy coat was already soaked through with water; he ignored it as he strode back onto the path, Noiraude slowly limping along.

Valjean didn’t dare to protest when Javert led them back into the direction he’d come from—further away from Montreuil. But when they passed a narrow path that led out towards the fields to the north, he realized what Javert’s intention was.

There was a barn there, which Robert had once used as a stable for the horses he’d kept on meadows that were now fields. The stable still stood: during harvest time, it stored the grain and straw before it would be taken to his mills.

When they made it there twenty long minutes later, both soaked to the bone and Noiraude following tiredly, it loomed before them, a dark silhouette against the sky still lit by glaring lightning. Valjean was as glad to see the rickety shed as a weary traveler entering Montreuil’s finest inn.

Inside, the barn was dark, the air filled with dust. When Javert closed the door after them, it fell shut with an ominous creak. The sound filled Valjean with deep relief and gratitude.

Outside, the storm was still raging. Rain came down hard onto the roof of their shelter; every now and then, thunder made the wooden structure rattle.

With another curse, Javert flung his soaked hat and coat away. “Hang them up to dry. And then wipe the horse down.”

Valjean obeyed quietly. He found a beam to spread Javert’s clothes over, then removed the tack from the mare who was standing quietly in one of the boxes that still remained, her head hanging low in exhaustion, her hind leg held up slightly to keep her weight off it.

Valjean crouched by her side for a moment to carefully draw his hand along her leg. Her skin was hot to the touch now, the lower part of her shin swollen—but beneath, he could feel the reassuring solidity of the long bone, with no fracture his fingers could make out.

Given time, she would recover.

He turned away from her to grab a handful of straw, twisting it up into his hand, then using it to scrape the water from her coat. Once the worst of the rain was gone, he used more of the dry straw to give her a vigorous rubbing. It left her with small pieces of straw stuck to her fur, but when he was done, she was no longer dripping with wetness. It was as comfortable as they could make her for the duration of the storm.

When he left her box, he became suddenly aware of his own wet clothes that were still dripping water.

The stable was quiet. Somewhere above, there had to be a window. Sparse light came in through it, as well as the scent of wet soil.

In the twilight, he could see that Javert had been observing him. He’d placed himself on a bale of straw—and he’d taken off his own, waterlogged clothes.

Valjean found his throat go dry as he watched a drop of water run down Javert’s chest. Embarrassed, he looked away, but even so the image was burned into his mind, his heart racing all of a sudden for no reason.

“Take off your shirt,” Javert said quietly.

Valjean hesitated for a long moment. Then his fingers went to his shirt and he drew it off slowly, his eyes returning to Javert despite himself while heat flooded his cheeks.

Javert was watching him calmly. There was not enough light to make out the look in his eyes, but even so it was hard to look away from him. Valjean found himself unable to move as he watched Javert, his chest rising and falling rapidly even though it had been no great exertion to wipe Noiraude down.

Javert in turn did not speak. He watched him intently, and Valjean found his gaze drawn to Javert’s chest again and again, where droplets of water kept leaving gleaming tracks as they made their way downward.

At last Javert smiled. “Go up into the hayloft,” he said softly, and Valjean found himself swallowing before he could tear his gaze away from the hypnotic display, images of the gleaming droplets still on his mind even as he reached out for the narrow ladder.

Rain kept falling incessantly, drumming against the roof above them. There was a window in the hayloft; through it, air came in that smelled of wet soil, and enough light to see Javert clearly.

Valjean watched as Javert looked around the small space, then seated himself on a bale of hay. His motions were fluid; he seemed completely at ease with his nudity, exuding an easy authority even without the cover of his greatcoat and hat.

In the twilight up here, Valjean could see another drop of water run down Javert’s chest. He turned away, inexplicably embarrassed, his throat tight.

There was nothing else to look at. The hayloft was well filled with hay and straw for the coming winter months. Particles of dust danced in the air. There was no sound but that of the rain and the wind outside. Valjean felt the breeze that came in through the window cool his own skin. He shivered instinctively, crossing his arms.

“Come here,” Javert said softly after some time had passed.

Valjean found himself obeying as if in a dream, his throat still tight. He brushed his palms against his thighs, but his trousers were soaked with water as well.

Javert smiled a little. “Take them off.”

Again Valjean hesitated. At last, he followed slowly, his face heating even though this was far from the first time Javert had seen him strip.

Glad to have a reason to turn away from the unsettling sight of Javert spread out before him, skin glistening with moisture, Valjean took hold of the dripping trousers and found a beam of wood to spread them out over. Then, reluctantly, he forced himself to face Javert once more.

“Come here,” Javert said again.

Valjean couldn’t say what made him so wary of approaching Javert after all these weeks. Javert had taken what he wanted—how many times had he had Valjean in his bed?

Still, something about the stillness of the stable and Javert’s relaxed mood set his nerves on edge. Perhaps it was merely the storm that was still raging all around the shed that sheltered them. Nevertheless, it seemed almost impossible to face Javert—and when his eyes at last came to rest on him again, Valjean felt his chest go tight again, something making it hard to breathe.

Javert had stretched himself out on the dry hay, all confident, long-limbed elegance. He still bore himself with the arrogance of a man dressed in bourgeois finery—and yet, instead of rings or a golden watch-chain, all that adorned his body were the droplets of water still gleaming on his skin, dripping down into the hay in shimmering rivulets whenever he moved.

Valjean swallowed, but followed obediently when Javert took hold of his hand and pulled him down. He stretched out on the dry hay by Javert’s side, his heart pounding in his chest for a reason he could not understand, for Javert did not seem to be in a bad mood.

Javert ran a hand up his side, then curved it around Valjean’s back. “There. As good as a blanket. You’ll keep me warm, I wager. After all it’s your fault we were trapped in the storm.”

“I didn’t make the bull attack,” Valjean said. “And the fence held, sir.”

A smile tugged on Javert’s lips again. “It did,” he said lazily, shifting against Valjean, his hand slowly tracing down Valjean’s back.

Javert’s skin was warm. His touch made something within Valjean tense, although Javert’s mood had not changed. He had not threatened Valjean with a whipping; if anything, his mood seemed to have improved even more now that they were resting side by side in the hay.

“Touch me,” Javert said softly.

After a moment, Valjean hesitantly curved his hand against Javert’s upper arm. Javert’s skin was wet, but warm to his touch. He remained relaxed when Valjean slowly drew his hand down his arm, then up to his shoulder. Warily, Valjean then allowed his hand to trail over his back; Javert remained completely at ease beneath his touch. Despite his slighter stature, there was nothing weak about Javert; Valjean could feel an echo of the rigidity with which he held himself in the lean, hard muscles he could feel beneath the soft skin.

Javert’s back was smooth. All his fingers encountered were the ridges and valleys of his spine. For all that Javert had been born to criminal parents, he had never felt the brutality of what he called justice.

The thought made Valjean swallow again, his exploration faltering for a moment—but when he looked up, he saw that Javert was not watching him. Javert’s eyes were closed, his features relaxed. Had he ever seen Javert like this before?

A heartbeat later, Javert made an encouraging sound and Valjean hastily tore his eyes away.

He drew his hand around to slowly slide down Javert’s chest, his fingers mapping the hard plane of muscle there. No, Javert wasn’t weak. Still, he lacked Valjean’s strength. He never could have done what Valjean had in Toulon. Even now, it would be easy for Valjean to overwhelm Javert. Was it not strange that Javert was not frightened of that if he was so convinced that Valjean was a dangerous man?

How was it that Javert could trust him enough to allow this, and yet fail to see that Valjean had changed? That he was still trying to change?

Slowly, Valjean pressed his palm against Javert’s chest, his fingers spreading out. Javert’s skin was very warm after the cold rain. Valjean could feel the thudding of Javert’s heart, feel the bone of his ribcage, the lean muscles of his stomach when he slid further down.

Javert’s stomach shifted when Valjean kept hesitantly tracing along the sinew and muscles that formed a strange map of hills and valleys. It was a living map, morphing in time with Javert’s breathing. More than ever, Valjean was aware of the way Javert’s heart had thudded against his ribcage.

They were not so different, no matter what Javert might think. No—without their clothes, they were one and the same. Both men. Both living, breathing. Nothing more.

Beneath his hand, Javert suddenly shuddered. A raindrop had fallen from Valjean’s wet hair and splashed onto Javert’s chest. As Valjean watched, another drop fell. For a heartbeat it gleamed like a diamond on Javert’s chest; then he took another breath, his chest rising, and the droplets ran downward, leaving behind a shining path of wetness.

Javert exhaled, his chest falling. Another drop fell.

This time, before Javert could inhale again, Valjean found himself leaning closer. Javert’s skin was hot when he pressed his mouth to it. The droplet of water was cool against the tip of his tongue.

Javert’s chest continued to rise and fall, more rapidly now. Valjean slowly followed the gleaming path of water with his mouth, his own heart racing in his chest. Somewhere above, the wind was howling around the roof, the rain still beating against the roof. These were the only sounds that filled the hayloft. When Valjean breathed in, he could now smell the warm scent of Javert’s skin beneath the scent of hay and wet soil. He could taste him on his tongue as well, warm and faintly salty beneath the clear, cold taste of the rainwater.

There was another flash of light. Moments later, the echoing rumble of thunder followed. Valjean’s tongue, which had hesitantly traced the rivulet that ran down Javert’s chest, suddenly encountered a small nub of warm skin; at his touch, the nub hardened and Javert shifted beneath him with a soft gasp.

Without thinking, Valjean found himself repeating the touch. This time, Javert’s hand came up, lightly curving around his shoulder as Javert moaned again. Javert’s nipple was tight and hard against Valjean’s tongue. When Valjean hesitantly slid his hand over Javert’s chest again, he found it rising and falling more quickly now, the beat of his heart a rapid tattoo.

When Valjean looked up, he saw that Javert’s head had sunk back into the hay. His throat was exposed, his eyes closed, the commanding lines around his mouth relaxed for once.

Javert wasn’t watching him. Javert wasn’t holding onto him to keep him in place either.

Like this, Javert looked strangely vulnerable, all gleaming, smooth skin stretched out in abandon. And it was Valjean who had brought this change about. Valjean who had made Javert forget himself, who’d made his chest heave and his heart race and his eyes close as he arched into Valjean’s touch…

Suddenly, Valjean became aware of something else.

Against his thigh, he could feel that Javert had hardened. When Valjean looked down he could see him, swollen with blood.

Again Valjean hesitated. Finally, slowly, he allowed his hand to slip downward, tracing past Javert's smooth stomach until he encountered the coarse curls that surrounded the base of his prick. Once more he gave Javert a wary look, but Javert's eyes were still closed, his body relaxed.

Valjean closed his fingers around Javert. He was shockingly hot in Valjean’s hand, and when he stroked him, Javert moaned in appreciation.

Valjean swallowed, staring at Javert's hard shaft. Then he leaned back over Javert again, licking his lips uncertainly before he touched his tongue to Javert’s hard nipple once more.

The caress brought him another pleased moan, Javert's cock pulsing in his hand as he stroked him. Valjean's chest felt tight again, his own heart racing although so far, Javert had not uttered a single command. Even if he had--they were alone, Javert was naked, without a weapon. Was it truly Javert who had the upper hand right now?

Then Javert shifted, and this time it was Valjean who gasped, shuddering helplessly as he realized that he was just as hard as Javert. Javert's thigh had brushed against his cock. Heat surged through him, something clenching painfully in his stomach. With his hand running up and down the burning length, Valjean mindlessly pressed closer.

“Here. Do it like this,” Javert murmured a moment later, rolling slightly towards him until his cock slid against Valjean's. He took hold of Valjean’s hand and put it where they were rubbing against each other. 

Valjean was too overwhelmed to think. He could barely breathe. Instinct made him tighten his fingers around the both of them, and when he stroked them together, Javert moaned again in approval. Valjean could only gasp for breath, his own hips straining forward as Javert's cock slid against his own. It felt smooth like silk and burning hot.

Javert gave him a low, breathless laugh in response. “Good. Now kiss me again.”

Blindly, Valjean pressed his mouth to Javert's, gasping against his lips. Javert's mouth was hot too, and when Javert's tongue slid into his mouth, Valjean opened for it with an eagerness that would have embarrassed him if he hadn't been too overwhelmed by the sensation of his cock sliding against Javert's.

Javert's arm wrapped around his shoulder, holding him close. Javert's tongue slid against his own, and when Valjean moaned brokenly, Javert swallowed the sound, his hand digging into his shoulder to pull him even closer.

Valjean was trembling, thrusting against Javert again and again, his hand running down Javert’s back to hold him closer while he stroked them. He could feel Javert’s heart racing, his breath coming in little pants against his own mouth, no sound audible but that of the wind driving the rain against the window. Javert’s cock was as slick as his own as he squeezed them together, tightening his fingers. The sensation made him cry out into the kiss, trembling as he found his release like that, Javert’s seed mingling with his own as it erupted hot across his knuckles.

For a long moment, Valjean could only gasp for breath, his mind pleasantly blank. Javert was warm against him, the hay soft. Outside, the storm was still raging, although the time between the flashes of lightning and the boom of thunder revealed that the storm was at last moving away from them.

Perhaps Valjean fell asleep. When he opened his eyes next, the howl of the wind had ceased. While it was still raining, water was no longer drumming loudly against the roof above them. Despite a cool breeze coming in, Valjean wasn’t cold. He was resting against something warm and soft—Javert, he realized a moment later, his heart beating faster.

Javert seemed to have nodded off as well—his eyes were closed, at least, his features relaxed.

Valjean had never seen him so vulnerable before. Valjean remained motionless for a while, watching Javert.

Javert’s chest was rising and falling slowly. For some reason, Valjean’s arm rested across his chest. Beneath his hand, Valjean could feel the hard bones of Javert’s ribcage—and there, not far from where his fingers had come to rest, he could see a small nipple. It was soft now, a round, flat nub. Valjean swallowed as he remembered how hot Javert’s skin had felt, how the nub had hardened when he had touched his tongue to it.

This time, there was no water glistening on Javert’s chest. The sweat had dried on their skin. Still, there was something strange to the relaxed smoothness of Javert’s body. Even now, it was hard to look away from it.

Perhaps it was simply the fact that without his uniform, without the gun or the iron around Valjean’s wrists, they were exactly the same. The only memories Valjean had of such physical closeness, of the press of warm bodies against his own, were from the countless nights in the prison hulks.

But this time, there were no hard planks beneath him and no chains on him. There was no cudgel in Javert’s hand either.

Experimentally, Valjean moved his arm a little. Javert’s skin was pleasingly warm beneath his fingertips. His throat tight, Valjean watched himself circle Javert’s nipple with the pad of his thumb. Javert exhaled heavily, and the flat disk began to tighten.

A moment later, Valjean realized what he was doing and hurriedly released Javert.

His heart was hammering in Valjean’s chest again. The air felt stiflingly warm beneath the roof. It took a moment until Valjean realized that incongruously, his own body had slowly begun to rouse.

Swallowing heavily, he rolled to his side, facing away from Javert. This way, he could see the window. Rain was still falling against the glass, but he could no longer make out the flashes of bright light.

Between his legs, his body was still aching with a diffuse longing.

In all those years in the hulks, he’d never touched another in such a way. Chained side by side with hundreds of men, he’d never once felt the need to reach out and embrace them. What had come over him just now?

Earlier, he’d given Javert what he’d expected. That was the deal he’d made. There was a reason for his surrender—a woman and an innocent child who were both suffering because of him.

But right now, Javert was asleep. Nothing had been asked of Valjean. Any other man he’d known in the hulks would have used this moment to escape.

There was no escape for Valjean, not with Fantine’s fate depending on him. Still, he’d touched Javert. He’d wanted to touch him. Even now, something was thrumming nervously in his body.

Helplessly, Valjean closed his eyes, burying his face in his hands. Even now he could see the strangely vulnerable expression on Javert’s face—Javert, who was sleeping against him so trustingly, as if he were just another prisoner chained in the hulks.

But he wasn’t. This was Javert, to whom Valjean was little more than the injured horse waiting patiently below.

“You’re awake? Good,” Javert murmured sleepily, interrupting his thoughts. A hand came to rest lightly on Valjean’s buttocks. “Looks like the worst is over.”

Something seemed to clench around Valjean’s throat, despair rising up in him together with the heat in his blood. 

“How can you bear it?” he asked desperately, throwing himself around to face Javert. “To touch me like this—to kiss me—and to treat me as if I’m less than an animal?”

His abrupt motion had taken Javert by surprise. He’d reached out, his hand now resting against Valjean’s chest. Valjean, in turn, was holding himself upright with his hands against the hay—one to each side of Javert’s face. He was half covering him with his body, Javert beneath him, Valjean’s half-hard cock nestling against Javert’s.

For one shocked moment, Valjean found himself staring into Javert’s eyes as his cock continued to harden. Then, hastily, Valjean reared back, shame rearing up inside him as his heartbeat echoed in his ears.

“Whatever you think I am, I’m not!” Valjean’s desperate voice echoed through the empty barn, suddenly too loud in his own ears. He hunched his shoulders, moving further back until he was kneeling in the hay, their bodies no longer touching.

Even now, his body was thrumming with nervous tension, the ache between his legs stubbornly alive. Valjean dropped his hands into his lap to cover himself, the only sound he could hear that of his own rapid breathing.

“I’m not,” he asserted more quietly—but this time, he found it hard to believe his own words.

Valjean still towered above Javert, his chest heaving and his eyes wild. Even now, sated as he was, Javert felt a twinge of lust at the thought that all this straining, masculine strength was at his command.

He reached out to touch Valjean’s shoulder, ran his hand across the hard chest, muscles flexing against his skin. “Aren’t you?” Javert asked with a slow smile. “The finest steed I’ve ever ridden, that’s for sure.”

The lines around Valjean’s mouth deepened at his words, his eyes darkening—that sullen, mulish look of hurt had become familiar by now. 

Javert slowly stroked Valjean’s chest, enjoying the firmness of his pectorals. “I wouldn’t offer an animal a place in my bed. Of course, you say you don’t want that place.”

Valjean’s jaw tightened, but beneath his palm, Javert could feel the rapid beating of his heart.

“And I’ve told you not to shout at me. If you’re more than an animal, you’d be able to keep that vile temper in check.” He traced Valjean’s ribs with his hands, feeling the powerful body breathe in and out. “That’s it, isn’t it? You don’t want to be an animal. But if that’s truly the case, you wouldn’t constantly fight me.”

“You know I’m not.”

The words were hoarse, Valjean shaking beneath his touch. Was he fighting the urge to lash out even now?

“You forget that I know what you were like in the hulks,” Javert said. “You were a beast, all instinct and aggression—only held in check by beatings which instilled a small amount of discipline in you.”

Valjean turned his face away at that, squeezing his eyes shut instead of shouting at him for once.

Javert curved his hand around Valjean’s neck. At the flexing of the powerful muscles beneath his grip, he licked his lips. “I told you I was wrong about you. You were a beast then—but you were smart enough to fool an entire town. Smart enough to run a factory, to play at being magistrate. What reason there is, you used for lies and deceit. You say you are more than a beast? Then I expect you to fight those instincts—to be grateful for my discipline.”

Valjean’s throat worked again. Javert could see him visibly fighting himself. When he spoke, his voice was rough, but he had clearly mastered the urge to shout.

“You have known me this past year. You saw me every day. People respected me. I was no beast, no monster—I did good. For this town; for everyone in need.”

“Like you did for that woman—Fantine?” Javert laughed hoarsely. “You committed crime after crime by using a false name. Every document you signed is worthless, no better than a forgery. You know very well what you are. What you’ve done. And so does everyone else now.”

Beneath his touch, he could feel the shudder that ran through Valjean. As always, the man flinched away from the truth.

“So this is all for my benefit then?” When Valjean turned his head towards Javert again, the lines around his mouth were still sharp, his brow furrowed with disbelief. “All of this...”

He swallowed and broke off, and Javert laughed.

“No. You’d think that, wouldn’t you? But this isn’t about you. It never was. It’s about me. About what I want. What I deserve. I’ve worked long and hard to be where I am, and I won’t be denied what a man in my position is owed. Least of all by you.”

Valjean’s tongue came out to moisten his lips. Javert found himself following the glistening path of it with his eyes. For a moment, he thought that perhaps, Valjean had learned his lesson well enough—but then, of course, Valjean had to speak again.

“And this is something I owe you? Sir,” Valjean added belatedly, with enough irony in it that on another day, Javert might have been tempted to give him another thrashing with a birch. “A kiss?”

Javert reached out and drew his finger across Valjean’s warm bottom lip before he clenched his hand around his chin. “Anything I want. Anything I demand. Respect, obedience, submission. You’re going to learn that lesson. We both know you will. It’s you who’s making this so hard for yourself.”

“Respect is earned.”

There was a challenge in Valjean’s eyes. Was Valjean even aware of it? Those same eyes had once followed Javert across a yard, smoldering with rage as Javert gave the command to fire.

Javert felt his lips twitch. “I told you. If you’re so keen on another beating, you can simply ask for it.”

Valjean was silent at last, although his eyes were still filled with that sullen accusation.

Javert allowed the silence to last to drive the lesson home. Finally, when Valjean’s shoulders relaxed and he released a weary sigh of resignation, Javert curved his hand around his nape once more and leaned forward.

Despite Valjean’s moodiness, his mouth opened willingly enough for Javert. His tongue was shy at first, but after a minute had passed, he seemed to have forgotten his sulking, his heart beaten fast against Javert’s chest, his lips moving against his.

Javert’s hand drew down his back soothingly as Valjean gasped against his lips. Beneath his hands, the powerful body trembled.

Whatever Valjean might claim, he liked this well enough.

***

When the sun broke through the clouds after the rain had ceased, the storm having moved off, Javert reluctantly pulled on his damp clothes once more. Noiraude was still limping, the leg swollen and warm to the touch, and so the walk back to the town was slow.

Once the mare had been returned to her box, the stable boy instructed to prepare a poultice of comfrey for the lame leg and to see to it that she was well fed, Javert motioned Valjean to follow as he returned to his apartment.

“I would’ve let you have some of my coffee,” Javert said when he at last reclined in his chair by the fire, changed into dry clothes. “You were pleasant enough company. You kept me warm. But you just cannot control that vile temper of yours, can you?”

Valjean’s gaze fell to the ground, but even so Javert could see his brows draw together. No doubt Valjean would love nothing better than to snarl accusations at him even now when the truth was that Valjean had brought all of this on himself.

But then, Javert had always known that it was going to come to this, as agreeable as Valjean could be. Some lessons had to be learned the hard way. A skittish colt needed a gentle, firm hand—but a stallion that bit the hand that fed it needed to be taught manners with the whip, it seemed.

“How is it that you’re astute enough to run a factory and yet you cannot even control yourself? Remember. It’s up to you to make this easier for yourself.”

Valjean shifted again. He looked bedraggled, his wet clothes clinging to his body. With this rain, there was no more opportunity for haymaking, at least until the meadows had dried.

“Bring me my coffee,” Javert said. “Then go and change into dry clothes. Don’t dawdle on the way back, I will know.”

“Yes, sir,” Valjean said, and went to work obediently enough.

Minutes later, Javert was sipping his coffee, allowing the warmth to spread through him. It banished the chill that had remained even after he’d stripped out of the damp clothes.

No, there was no more work for Valjean today—and no emergency at the station-house that could not be handled by one of Javert’s agents. After all the bustle of harvest time, it would not hurt to spend an hour disciplining one of the town’s servants instead. Furthermore, as agreeable as the thought of it was, it was not merely self-serving entertainment—the disciplining of the men under his supervision was one of his duties as the chief of police, and it seemed that he had been remiss in it.

Once his cup was empty, Javert rose. He pulled a small linen bag from a drawer, which held the dried red peppers he had purchased on his last journey to Paris.

He placed one of the peppers in a small bowl, then began crushing it with a knife. A sharp, pungent scent rose and brought with it a sudden vision of Toulon’s blazing sun and the creaking of ships in the harbor. After he’d poured a small amount of oil into the bowl, Javert continued to work the pepper into a red paste.

The convicts in the hulks lived on their rations of bread and beans. It was true that they had the chance to purchase better fare—but not Jean Valjean, as far as he was aware. Valjean was one of those men without family or friends, and the pathetic theft he’d been sentenced for had not left him with a secret stash of gold either, as some of his more famous companions. Valjean might never have tasted what the harbor and merchant ships of the Mediterranean had to offer.

For no reason, a dim memory arose in his mind, his mother kneeling by a dirty stove, a spoon in her hand.

He scoffed at himself. Was that memory even real? Most of what he remembered of his childhood was the hunger, the squalor, the baseness of the men and the immorality of the women she’d sheltered with. She’d certainly never seemed particularly concerned with how he was to feed himself if both of his parents were locked behind bars. No; ultimately, there was a selfish element to every crime. A criminal cared not about what his acts meant for society; a criminal simply took. A thief took gold, a murderer a life, a forger a name.

Jean Valjean was not so different, for all that he claimed to be above the hulks. But he didn’t understand that Javert knew men like him intimately well. Javert hadn’t simply supervised them. He’d grown up among them.

Javert knew firsthand how hard it was to not simply take when one was hungry—but he hadn’t resorted to theft. He’d known what side of the law he wanted to be on. And Valjean had made his own choice—the easier choice. The selfish choice of his parents, of every thief in the hulks—even of Gueit, the guard who’d been Javert’s first superior, until he’d been arrested when he’d drunkenly attacked an officer of the garrison by accident.

There was the sound of steps on the stair in the corridor, and Javert exhaled, pushing away thoughts of the harbor and the thieves and the mother he hadn’t thought about in many years.

He took the bowl with him back to his chair by the stove, placing it on the table next to him. He settled back into his chair just when Valjean entered once more.

“Come here.” Javert pointed to the floor in front of his chair.

Valjean gave him another of those careful looks, approaching with all the skittishness of a wild horse—but there’d been little of that skittishness in him when he’d half snarled at Javert in the hayloft.

At last, Valjean sank to his knees.

“Closer,” Javert said, watching as Valjean reluctantly came forward.

Once more Valjean’s gaze dropped just as warily to his groin, then rose with ill-concealed relief to Javert’s face.

Javert smiled with amusement. Valjean might yet change his mind about whether he truly preferred what was to come…

Slowly, he reached out, tracing Valjean’s mouth. Valjean allowed the touch with no protest, allowing Javert to slide his finger inside, to trace across the velvety heat of his tongue. For all of Valjean’s earlier rebellion, he was as tractable as his gelding now.

For a moment, Javert allowed himself to consider the pleasant vision of Jean Valjean broken of his ill manners, the powerful body pliant in his arms to warm him during winter nights, kneeling at his feet as he sipped his coffee in the mornings, Valjean’s immense strength put to good use during the day.

Valjean’s eyes followed him, still guarded but peaceful enough for now. It was true that he was a different vision than he’d been in the hulks with his dirty beard and his skin burned red by the sun. There’d been nothing but animal rage in his eyes then, an insolence that stirred something in Javert even when the cudgel and the whip had taught Valjean to keep his mouth shut.

The work under the gentler sun of Pas-de-Calais had tanned the skin that had paled under the many layers of clothes Madeleine had hidden his scars beneath. Jean Valjean was no longer the furious beast of the hulks, nor was he the deceptively mild-mannered magistrate who’d hidden in his factory.

In his simple, frayed workingman’s clothes, his throat bare to allow Javert a tantalizing glimpse of his broad chest, he exuded an overpowering masculinity that even now made Javert’s throat go dry as he thought of that straining vigor bent to his will.

“You can be so good if you want to,” he murmured, drawing the pad of his thumb along Valjean’s bottom lip while he kept his finger in the seductive heat of his mouth. “Look at you. I want to give you a treat just for looking at me like that.”

Immediately, Valjean’s cheeks flushed with heat, his eyes widening as if he hadn’t known what he looked like. Even now, he didn’t pull away. It was Javert who pulled his hand back at last, reaching into his pocket where he’d kept the small tin with the anise dragées. He placed one of them on his own tongue while Valjean watched, thinking back to the boy he’d been as the sweetness of the sugar spread across his tongue.

There’d been no treats such as this for a boy like Javert. Now, at last, he was in a position where he could indulge himself if he wished. But as sweet as the dragées were, the thought of Valjean’s soft lips trustfully taking one of the dragées from his palm was even sweeter.

As a child, he’d thought that one day in the future, he’d have what the people around him had: a home, plentiful food, good clothes. Respect.

Now, as an adult, when he’d achieved that goal, he’d come to realize that there were some indulgences authority brought with it that were even sweeter than all the sugar of Burgundy.

Unfortunately, Valjean’s own mulishness kept them both from tasting it.

“But you don’t deserve a treat, do you?”

Valjean’s brows knit. He gave Javert a look of such sullenness that Javert found himself laughing again.

“Sometimes I feel like I’m trying to teach a mule,” he said lazily, then reached out and dipped his finger into the paste of red peppers and oil. “Open your mouth.”

Valjean exhaled but his lips obediently parted. His eyes were still on Javert, full of a quiet worry. He’d looked like that when he’d sucked on his sugary treat too, Javert remembered. What a conundrum this man was.

Without a word of warning, Javert slid his pepper-stained finger into Valjean’s mouth, resting it on his tongue. Then he waited.

A moment later, Valjean violently reared back, making a choking sound as his hands flew to his mouth.

“I’ve warned you repeatedly not to raise your voice at me. You will learn this lesson,” Javert said softly, leaning forward to grab the front of Valjean’s shirt.

Valjean’s eyes were full of surprised tears. He was panting for breath, staring at Javert with wide, wet eyes.

“Please.” Valjean groaned pitifully. “Water...”

Javert shook his head. “You brought this on yourself. Now open your mouth. You’ll keep my finger in your mouth until I tell you otherwise. Is that understood?”

Valjean shook his head in terror, but after a moment his lips reluctantly parted when Javert tightened his hold on him. The desperate, wet gleam in his eyes was something Javert hadn’t seen in a long time. Not like this.

Gone was all of Valjean’s obstinacy, the impertinent challenge of those eyes, the suffering mouth that seemed fit for a martyr’s portrait.

Now, at last, all pretense had been stripped away. Valjean’s eyes were wide and shocked, tears pooling in the corners, and as Javert watched, they began running down his cheeks.

Gone was all the wariness, the feeling that Valjean was holding something back even when he’d beaten him with a switch. Valjean’s face was utterly unguarded—and his eyes were focused, at long last, on Javert, as if everything else had ceased to exist. As if Javert’s mastery was the only thing in the world that mattered.

It was how it should be. What a pity that Valjean should have chosen to learn this lesson the hard way.

“Keep it in your mouth,” Javert said softly, meeting Valjean’s agonized eyes. “Remember.”

He held out his finger again, which was still reddened with the mixture of the crushed pepper and oil.

Valjean’s eyes closed briefly, more tears welling up, clinging to his lashes where they gleamed before they dripped down his cheek. It truly was a sight that could have inspired an artist for a frieze of marble saints.

Then Valjean’s eyes opened again and he leaned forward, eyes cast up at Javert as he leaned forward to reluctantly take his finger into his mouth.

Tears were running down Valjean’s face. His tongue trembled against Javert’s finger. A choked sob escaped him after a moment that turned into a groan. His eyes half-closed again, his tears flowing freely.

Javert reached out, gently wiping away the tears with his thumb although new tears immediately followed. He smiled as he pressed his stained finger into Valjean’s tongue

“Good,” Javert said softly. “Remember this. I expect you to be well-behaved.”

Valjean couldn’t answer. Javert imagined the sharp burn of the pepper. Valjean’s tongue had to feel like it was on fire, the unbearable heat of the pepper driving tears to his eyes until he could no longer see.

Yes, it seemed that the impetuous purchase in Paris had been the right choice. Even Valjean, as immeasurably strong as he was, had no defenses against this torment. And he suffered exquisitely, his tears dropping from his cheeks to the floor as he trembled.

This was a lesson Valjean’s rebellious tongue would not soon forget.

Valjean’s mouth burned. He had never felt anything like it before—the sensation was as overwhelming as the long moment in which he’d clutched the red-hot coin as it seared his skin.

In his terror, his first thought had been that this was what Javert was doing—branding his tongue to keep him from talking. It was this terror which had made him flinch back, together with the shock of the unexpected pain. But whatever the red substance on Javert’s skin was, it had not harmed Javert’s finger. He had not even worn his gloves.

Surely Javert wouldn’t harm Valjean. Not permanently. It was that hope he clung to as his heart hammered in his chest, flames filling his mouth. The pain made it difficult to think as the unbearable heat sizzled on his tongue, his eyes watering uncontrollably.

But had not Javert praised his mouth before? Surely he would not mutilate him. Through the film of tears he looked up, trying to make out Javert’s expression.

“You don’t like that, do you?” Javert wiped some of tears away again, his touch strangely gentle. “Maybe this will work where the whip doesn’t. Do you think you’ll manage to control that tongue in the future?”

Humbly, Valjean nodded, Javert’s finger still in his mouth. His face felt as if it was on fire, wetness dripping down his cheeks.

“Remember those treats I brought back from Paris? I bought this, too. A special treat.” Javert chuckled. “Peppers—fresh off a ship from Cayenne, the merchant assured me. You aren’t enjoying this as much as the anise from Flavigny, are you?”

Mutely, Valjean shook his head. The roof of his mouth was on fire as well—even his throat was burning. Saliva kept pooling in his mouth and he had no choice but to swallow.

“That’s what I thought. Shall we see how long you’ll remember this lesson this time?”

Valjean nodded, all shame forgotten as he gave Javert a pleading look through his tears. With a small smile, Javert finally pulled his finger free.

“It really is such a sweet mouth.” Javert’s fingertip trailed over his swollen bottom lip. “I bet there are some things you’d rather have in that mouth now.”

Even in his current misery, Valjean felt new heat rise to his face. He turned his head away and Javert laughed.

“I’m not really giving you a choice. You know that, don’t you?” Javert murmured. “We both know it’ll happen. But I’ll let you do it in your own time.”

His hand stroked over Valjean’s skull, fingertips lingering on the short hair at his nape. Valjean shivered instinctively at the sensation.

His mouth was still burning—but the sensation hadn’t grown worse. Tentatively he raised a hand to his mouth, wiping his tongue against the back of it.

It didn’t help, and when he looked up plaintively, Javert was chuckling again.

“Are you sorry now? In that case, I think I deserve an apology for shouting at me.”

Valjean squeezed his eyes shut, but this did not in any way alleviate his stinging mouth.

“I’m sorry for shouting at you, sir,” he said hoarsely, wondering miserably whether it was worth it to beg Javert for a drink of water again.

“That’s better. Now go and fetch me some of the bread and cheese from this morning.”

Lazily, Javert leaned back in his chair. Valjean stumbled to his feet, then did as he was told. His eyes wouldn’t stop watering. His entire body felt too hot, sweat dripping down between his shoulder blades. Even so, although he gave the pitcher of water a longing look, he hastily assembled the morning’s leftover bread together with the cheese and a tub of yellow butter.

Once Valjean had placed his meal before him, Javert motioned to the ground again, and Valjean sank back to his knees by his feet.

Javert cut of a chunk of cheese and slid it into his mouth. Valjean allowed his gaze to return to the floor. His mouth still burned, but it wasn’t getting any worse. It was better than it had been several minutes ago, in fact. Even though it still felt like flames were licking at the roof of his mouth, the realization gave him hope. It was slowly getting better—surely the pain would stop eventually.

It took him a moment to realize that Javert’s hand had come down. There was a morsel of bread in his hand—the good white bread of the baker by the Saint-Walloy square, covered generously with the yellow butter.

Valjean stared at the morsel hesitantly. Instinct made him want to back away from it, after his recent experience at Javert’s hand.

“Don’t be a fool, Valjean,” Javert said impatiently. “Wasn’t one lesson enough for you?”

Valjean swallowed against the stinging in his mouth, then leaned carefully forward, taking the offered bread with as much hesitancy as if he were facing a poisonous snake. He could taste neither the bread nor the rich sweetness of the butter as he chewed, but once he’d swallowed, the burning seemed to have lessened to his great relief.

He must have looked surprised, for a moment later, Javert chuckled.

“Water wouldn’t have helped.” Javert cut himself another chunk of the sharp, pale cheese he favored. “More?”

“Yes, sir,” Valjean said, swallowing his pride. “Please.”

Javert smoothed another generous amount of the good butter onto a piece of bread, then held it out to Valjean. When Valjean carefully took it with his lips, Javert slid his finger into his mouth as well and Valjean licked the butter from his skin.

“You’re always so well behaved afterward,” Javert murmured. “Isn’t it easier like this?”

Heat rose to Valjean’s cheeks again. At last Javert pulled his finger free and Valjean lowered his head, chewing mechanically. The burning had lessened enough that tears were no longer running from his eyes, and when he tentatively touched his tongue to the roof of his mouth, he could feel no soreness, no blisters. Just a few minutes ago he could have sworn that someone had doused his tongue in oil and set it aflame—but apart from the remembered pain, it seemed to have done no lasting harm.

Valjean remained quiet while Javert finished his lunch. Finally Javert pushed his chair back. Valjean could feel the weight of Javert’s gaze on him. When he looked up, there was a thoughtful look on Javert’s face.

“Come here,” Javert said again. “Kiss me.”

That lesson wasn’t new. Even so, it meant swallowing his pride just as much as the bread had as he moved forward to kneel between Javert’s legs, rest his hands on his thighs, and lean upwards to hesitantly press his lips to Javert’s.

For a moment, the absurdity of his situation hit him. Mere weeks ago, he had been mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, owner of a factory, elector. And now here he was, kneeling on the ground of Javert’s apartment, the sole task occupying his full attention being how to please Javert with a kiss.

Javert ran his hand down his arm with an appreciative sound when Valjean slid his tongue into his mouth, and moments later, Valjean’s apprehension was forgotten. It was impossible to think of anything but the wet heat of Javert’s mouth, the strangely electric feeling of Javert’s tongue against his own. Even now, after all that Javert had already had of him, the intimacy of it was overwhelming. He’d never been so close to another person before, and as painful as the earlier lesson had been, he could not help but gradually relax into the sensation.

When Javert at last drew back, Valjean’s heart was racing again. His mouth was still tingling with a hint of the pepper’s bite—but a different heat had stirred in his body as well.

Thoughtfully, Javert licked his lips as he looked at him. “When I bought those peppers,” he said suddenly, “the merchant thought I was looking for the flavors of Saint-Domingue. He was wrong. I prefer the taste of this.”

Before Valjean could say anything, Javert leaned forward again. This time it was Javert’s tongue that slid hungrily into his mouth, and Valjean shocked himself by the moan that escaped him as Javert lingeringly licked into his mouth as if he savored the slight burn.

There was a slight smile on Javert’s lips when he pulled back. “Don’t think there’s a name for it,” he said quietly. “But I do have a taste for seeing you obey...”

***

It was not yet late; sunlight was still falling in through Javert’s windows. The storm had moved off, and the puddles on the cobblestones outside had almost dried. Instead of sending Valjean out into the fields, Javert had sent him back into the stable where he had checked on Javert’s mare and then spent the rest of the afternoon making certain that the hayloft was well-stocked with hay and straw before settling down to clean and polish the tack.

He was not certain if Javert had meant it as a punishment—to him, it felt like a reward. In the stables, he encountered no one but the lad who took care of the horses and the occasional police agent, who left him alone for the most part—probably well aware that Javert kept a firm grip on him.

The stable was quiet and peaceful, filled by dust and the warm scent of the horses. To sit on a bale of straw and patiently polish leather until it gleamed seemed more a reward than anything else. Perhaps that was why Javert had done it—to give him time to think about his punishment and about what else Javert had said.

Javert had been so certain that he would break. And perhaps Javert was right—it might be inevitable. Was there truly a reason to put it off? To sleep in Javert’s bed, to let him have his mouth as well when Javert had after all already taken everything else... perhaps it was nothing but stubbornness that kept Valjean from it.

Valjean knew that he was no better than the men he’d been chained to for nineteen years. Many of them had not thought twice about helping out a companion in such ways. It was true that Valjean had not had a companion of that sort in the hulks—and it was also true that even in Toulon, not all such services had been entirely voluntary.

Why then did he hesitate so when he’d let Javert have everything else?

Compared to the hulks, Javert was not so cruel. His torment was of a different kind, harder to bear in many ways—but who of the men chained beside Valjean would not have gladly taken his place here?

If he gave in, if he let Javert have what he wanted, perhaps there might be peace. Perhaps he might sleep in Javert’s bed, and the heat of Javert’s hunger would keep the voices of the past away.

Valjean’s mood was subdued when Javert at last summoned him back to his apartment. There, he served Javert his dinner and the wine to go with it, and when Javert gestured at the floor, he knelt before he’d even had time to think, the response coming instinctive now.

“The day ends better than it started,” Javert said with a small smile, his fingers trailing over the short hair that covered Valjean’s head.

Even that touch was easier to bear now, although the thought that Javert might choose to shave his head again still made Valjean’s heart clench in dread.

Without protest or hesitation, he took the food Javert offered—more bread and cheese, and morsels of a white fish. Javert was generous with the food. Valjean found himself closing his eyes as he closed his lips around Javert’s fingers. It did not seem so strange now as it once had to slide his tongue over them.

Javert’s nails were short and smooth against his tongue, without the ragged edges of Valjean’s own, and Javert’s skin was warm, faintly salty from the fish when Valjean carefully licked the fat from his fingertips.

Why had he rebelled against this for so long? It was not entirely unpleasant: there was something comforting in the heat and the salt of Javert’s skin. When he closed his eyes, he could linger on that sensation. It was an experience almost approaching peace—all else fell away but taste and touch.

He pressed his tongue against Javert’s fingertip, sucking a trace of butter from it when it returned with more. It was so easy to surrender to this peace, to allow his body to relax and let down his guard at last—but even now, when his mind was almost calm, the weight upon his shoulders nearly forgotten, a part of him ached with sadness. Javert touched him like no other ever had—but to Javert, he was still little more than a wild beast to tame.

What did Javert see when he looked down at him like this?

He did not see Valjean, not truly. He looked down at a criminal almost broken to his desires. What ached the most was how easy it would be to give in despite everything and let Javert have what he wanted.

It was into these thoughts that a loud knock on Javert’s door intruded.

When Javert motioned to him, Valjean obediently rose. It was not the day for the washerwoman to return Javert’s linens, so Valjean expected one of Javert’s agents with a message for him. Instead, when he opened the door, he found himself suddenly face to face with Fantine, who looked just as surprised as he felt before she proudly raised her chin.

“You.” She exhaled, still eying him suspiciously. “I’m here for the inspector, not for you.”

“Let her in,” Javert said from where he was seated.

The earlier peace making way for a strange feeling of disquiet, Valjean let Fantine enter before he returned to Javert’s table.

Had Fantine caused trouble again? Had Javert been satisfied enough with the lesson he’d taught Valjean today that he’d summoned Fantine to spend the night in his apartment instead?

Javert gestured at the floor by his feet, and Valjean instinctively sank to his knees once more.

“What is it?” Javert asked sharply.

Only then did Valjean realize that Fantine was still standing behind him. He hunched his shoulders uncomfortably, heat rising to his face once more. What was she thinking now?

Probably nothing she and the other servants had not already thought before. Still, it was one thing to have them whisper among themselves. It was another thing entirely to show off how well-trained Javert had him.

“They said there was a letter, sir,” Fantine said after a moment, her tone now markedly different to how she spoke to him. “From Montfermeil.”

“Ah. There was,” Javert said.

Valjean expected that he would make Fantine wait for it—had it been he who had awaited a letter, Javert would have certainly turned it into another game. Instead, from his position on the floor, he saw Javert reach into a pocket.

“Can you read?” he asked. Fantine must have shaken her head, for a moment later, he unfolded it.

“What an abominable fellow.” Javert stared at the letter with furrowed brow. “He’s singing a different tune now than he sang last week, at least.” Then he began to read out loud.

“Apologies once more for asking Monsieur for that trifling sum in the last letter; Monsieur was quite right to be doubtful, for it turns out that the doctor who looked at her was a quack who has since fled from the town. The girl is doing well and of good health, although I will allow myself to remind Monsieur that it is autumn, and children grow fast, and we would not like to see the child suffer from the cold. The girl should have a woolen coat, a skirt and warm stockings, and as much as my dear wife and I would like to spoil this girl who is as dear to us as our own, I must remind Monsieur that we already have four children who are in need of the same, which leaves us with little coin to spare. Your obedient servant, and so on and so forth.”

“Healthy!” Fantine said, and when Valjean looked up, he could see her clutching her hands to her chest. “Oh, thank God! They told me that a child can die from miliary fever—”

“And I told you the child has no such thing.” Javert laughed softly. “Miliary fever! And to demand fifteen francs—to call it a trifling sum? That fellow you left the girl with is either a rogue or a fool; never mind, he has changed his tune quickly enough.”

“Although it is true; winter will be here soon.” Valjean could hear Fantine take a deep breath. “My blanket’s made of a good wool; it’s large enough for a coat for a child—”

“It’s not your blanket,” Javert said curtly. “It’s the town’s blanket, as is everything else in the barracks. Paid for by Monsieur 24601 here. I daresay you will be more appreciative of his generosity when the winter comes—and so will he.”

There was a scornful sound from Fantine. “He doesn’t have much use for his own blanket, does he.”

Heat rose to Valjean’s face once more. He kept his eyes firmly trained on the floor between his knees.

“Go to Monsieur Robert,” he said quietly. “Tell him there’s a child in need. He would not talk to me now, of course, but he’s a good man. If you talk to him, he will give you clothes to send to Montfermeil.”

Javert laughed, but when Valjean slowly raised his head, merely waved his hand dismissively. “I’m not going to keep you from talking to him,” he said to Fantine, still sounding amused. “But—”

“If you call on him now, he will open the door to you,” Valjean interrupted firmly. “Don’t let his servants brush you off; he will hear you.”

Fantine stared at him, doubt and suspicion flitting across her face, mixed with a fierce determination Valjean knew well. It was the sort of determination that was born from despair. He had not seen it when she’d first come to his factory and asked for work, but it had been there all the same: that same desperate need to care for her child.

It was hard to face her now, after what he’d done, but even so he forced himself to look at her while she stared at him in turn, her dislike for him warring with a desperate hope.

“I think you should know better than to interrupt like that,” Javert said mildly. “Don’t you?”

“Yes, sir,” Valjean said obediently and lowered his head, his heart heavy at the thought that this time, there was a witness to his misery. “My apologies, sir.”

Javert was silent for a moment, then turned back to Fantine. “Is that all then?”

“Yes, sir,” she replied. “Please send the child all my love, and tell the innkeeper that I will send winter clothes for Cosette this month.”

A moment later, Valjean could hear the sound of Fantine’s wooden shoes as she turned from them. He did not dare to look up until he heard the sound of the door.

“She doesn’t like you at all, does she?” Javert murmured, sounding amused. “Do you regret your offer yet?”

“She wouldn’t be here without me,” Valjean said. There was a thoughtful look on Javert’s face despite his amusement. Valjean met his eyes calmly. “We might disagree about many things, sir—but I know that I’ve done things I should be punished for. I know it very well.”

Autumn brought with it not only sudden gales of wind that swept dark clouds inland from the coast, leading to endless days of rain, but also at last the appointment of the new mayor, M. Regnier. For Javert, little changed—his duties were, after all, still the same. All that differed was that now he was no longer obliged to listen to a man preaching compassion when he reported on a vagrant that had been jailed or a theft that had been committed.

Javert had half expected that M. Robert would step up and offer himself for the honor after he had purchased Valjean’s factory, but after the man’s regrettable support of Madeleine, it seemed that Robert was now content to see that everything was in order with the factory.

“I am surprised that we have not seen you campaign for office,” Javert said with a small smile.

Robert offered him a smile in return that gave away nothing. “I barely have the time to see to my own affairs these days.”

“And yet you were an ardent supporter of Madeleine.”

“Ah well,” Robert said philosophically, “did he not play us all for a fool?”

After that, Robert skillfully kept the conversation on track, for he had called Javert in to investigate the concerns of his workers, some of whom had reported being menaced by a wild dog when they arrived early in the mornings.

“There is already a rumor making the rounds in town that there is a wolf on the loose.” Robert smiled. “What wolf would just approach a town like that? Still, better to make an end to the rumor before it grows even further.”

By the time one of Javert’s agents cornered the feral mutt and shot it, it had indeed grown into a pack of wolves roving through Montreuil in the tales of the townspeople. After Javert had made his report to the mayor, he returned to Valjean’s former factory to inform Robert that the issue had been dealt with.

A movement to the side caught his attention before he entered. Instead of striding inside, he slowly approached the narrow alley that ran alongside the building where crates of materials were stacked—and there he found to his great surprise Jean Valjean in conversation with Robert.

“Is he bothering you, monsieur?” Javert said sharply. “He should know better than to accost honest citizens.”

“Not at all,” Robert said. The smile he gave Javert was decidedly cold. “I have been making inquiries about the prices of a certain supplier—they seemed unusually high to me. Your men, when they searched Madeleine’s offices, made quite a mess of things, and the old bills cannot be found. Fortunately, there’s a man here who should be well aware of the price of gum shellac. I beg your pardon for interrogating him in your absence. I had not thought I would need a police agent’s permission for such a trivial thing.”

Javert straightened, fury bristling deep inside him—even more so when he noted Robert slipping something into his pocket. Had he exchanged notes with Valjean? Was Valjean, despite his deceptively obedient demeanor of recent weeks, once more secretly plotting to make his escape?

And yet, it made no sense that a respectable man like Robert would be caught up in such a scheme. At most, Robert might be bribing Valjean in order to buy the old secrets of his trade. In that case, surely such concerns were not Javert’s problem—his duty was to ensure the safety of the town, and the concerns of the businesses of electors were far beyond him.

Nevertheless, after all the time he had spent with Jean Valjean on his knees before him, it stung to find himself so callously reminded of his own inferiority in front of just that man.

“Of course not, monsieur,” Javert said curtly. “Nevertheless, you are speaking to a dangerous man. It would be a dereliction of my duty if I allowed you to come to harm while I am supervising his behavior.”

“Oh, I am feeling quite safe with you watching over me. Paris must have been delighted by your conduct. It astonishes me that they have not yet offered you a more prestigious post than our small town.”

Again Javert felt unsettled. Was Robert hoping to get rid of him? It was true that Javert had his eyes on Paris—he had never desired to end his life in a provincial town. Yet what did Robert know of that?

The only explanation Javert could see was that without him around to keep Valjean in check, Robert would have an easier time of approaching him.

And yet—why would Robert desire such a thing?

“I am satisfied with the challenges Montreuil has to offer,” Javert said at last, biting back the urge to demand an explanation.

“And Montreuil is lucky to have you.”

Usually it was easy to read Robert. The man’s open face hid nothing. This time, although on the surface it was an interaction like any other, Javert could not help but feel that something was amiss. He would have to keep an eye on Valjean around Robert.

By the time he had Valjean safely back in the station-house, two of his agents had returned as well, trading tales of the rumors that had sprung up in such a short time. Javert ignored them, something tight and angry still twisting in his stomach. He eyed the door that led to the small jail, but then decided against it. Instead, he took Valjean upstairs with him into his apartment.

“What were you talking about to Robert?”

“Nothing, sir,” Valjean answered after a short moment. “He was asking about past suppliers and prices. He could not find some of the old bills, and one of the suppliers must have thought it a good opportunity to double their prices.”

“And that was all?” Javert demanded.

Valjean remained silent for a moment, his brows coming together as he looked at Javert with an apprehension that had by now become familiar. Javert thought of the note he’d seen Robert pocket. Whatever was going on, he’d have the truth out of Valjean.

“No, sir,” Valjean said reluctantly.

“Well?”

“I’m not forbidden from answering a citizen’s questions, am I, sir?”

Javert exhaled in displeasure. “Are you trying to play a game, Valjean?”

Again Valjean remained silent for a moment, then shook his head. “No, sir,” he murmured. “It was about Fantine’s child. I know she would not accept my help, and I was afraid she’d be too proud to go to M. Robert. I wrote down the name of those inn-keepers in Montfermeil for him and asked him to send warm winter clothes for a young girl there.”

Valjean’s head was bowed, his eyes on the floor. When Javert gripped hold of his chin and tilted his head up, his eyes widened. He still looked apprehensive—but there was no defiance in his eyes, only a worry that made his brows knit together and deepened the lines around his mouth.

Javert frowned, strangely unsatisfied—even more so because despite Valjean’s obvious uncertainty, he couldn’t detect a lie in what he’d said.

“Very well then. Strip.”

That caused a reaction at last. Valjean’s eyes widened a little, his breath coming faster—but when Javert released his chin, he obeyed readily enough.

Javert watched. Once Valjean was naked, he picked up his clothes and began to search them.

“Lean against the wall.”

There was a faint flush on Valjean’s cheeks, but he followed that command as well.

Valjean’s pockets were empty. Javert carefully felt along the seams, but despite his thorough search, he couldn’t find any other hidden notes. When he turned his attention back on Valjean, he saw that Valjean had remained in position. The sight of the powerful body bared to him caused another twinge of excitement. It was true: Valjean was not quite the brute he had been in Toulon. Perhaps that was what made his sullen spells and moments of disobedience so puzzling. Valjean was too shrewd for that.

But perhaps not shrewd enough to keep his interactions with Robert hidden from Javert.

Javert ran his hands over Valjean’s body, searching him as he had been searched so often before. Valjean held still for all of it, even though Javert could feel the tensing of his muscles and the quick thudding of his heart.

“Haven’t had to do this in a while,” he murmured against Valjean’s shoulder. “Do you think I’ve been too trustful?”

He breached Valjean with one finger. Valjean was tight around him, but didn’t resist, and Javert made a thoughtful sound, not surprised to find the anal cavity empty—no concealed letter or file.

“No, sir,” Valjean said. He exhaled heavily when Javert rubbed the pad of his thumb against the rim of his hole where it was still spread around his finger. “I haven’t—I was thinking of the girl, not myself. I made this bargain willingly. I wouldn’t risk it.”

“So you think I should trust you?”

Valjean tensed beneath his hands, as if he was wondering whether the question was a trap.

“Yes, sir.”

Javert smiled against his shoulder. “Trust is earned.” Nevertheless, he pulled his finger out of Valjean’s body, watching the scarred back shift, muscles bunching beneath the skin.

He curved his hand around a buttock, squeezing in appreciation. No wonder the vision of Valjean had haunted him back in the hulks. The man was built like a Flemish stallion, all bulging muscle and barely contained strength.

“Tell me, Valjean,” he murmured, moving even closer, “if I were to hold out a bit, would you willingly take it in your mouth?”

Valjean tensed again. Javert kept stroking his powerful haunches in admiration. Finally Valjean half turned to look at him.

“Is that what you would have me do to earn your trust?”

Javert laughed. His hand was still on Valjean’s hip, lightly stroking his warm skin.

“No. That’s not what it takes. No deal; no dare. You will have my trust when I can hold out a bit of cold iron and you open your mouth for that as willingly as for my fingers—without question, without wanting to prove something. That’s what I want. That’s when you’ll have my trust.”

Valjean’s brows drew together again. “And you think I’ll do that one day?”

“You know you will.”

Valjean didn’t protest at that declaration, but all the same, his mouth twisted with worry.

Yes, Valjean knew that Javert was right. Javert would have what he wanted. And Valjean might not want to yield now, but he knew it was inevitable.

“You do not like to make things easier for yourself, do you?” Javert asked.

In answer, Valjean exhaled again, shifting slightly beneath his touch. Truly not that different from trying to gentle an uneasy horse. 

He’d have everything he wanted from him. He’d see him break. And not under the whip—Valjean would give himself up entirely, willingly, just as he had promised.

***

It was late in the afternoon on the same day when Javert heard the door of the station-house open and close. He didn’t bother to raise his head; this was the time his agents would eventually return from their duties and make their report. With the dog shot, there hadn’t been much else of note, except for an argument in a tavern.

“Sir. I found this man down by the gate. He says he was on his way to the station-house.”

When Javert looked up, he saw Delrue—lean and looking twice as tall as usual next to the hunched figure by his side. The man he’d brought in wore a threadbare coat that might once have been brown but was now bleached by the sun to the color of dirty sand. His hair might have been the same color—or it might have been the dirt caking it. It was hard to tell.

“Thought it might be another of your friends.” Delrue chuckled. “From the hulks.”

He’d hardly needed that addition. Javert had immediately known who he had in front of him, even without seeing the man move. He had that look of a man who dragged his leg. Some chains couldn’t be left behind—for all that Valjean had tried.

“Your passport,” Javert said coldly, ignoring Delrue. The man was capable, but it was starting to become apparent that he thought himself on equal footing with Javert. Javert could not let such disrespect stand.

The ex-convict came shuffling forward. He wore wooden shoes, and in his walk, Javert could indeed detect the effects that years of a heavy chain dragged from one leg had left.

Javert unfolded the yellow sheet of paper, glancing at the date of his release from the hulks of Brest before perusing the stamps and official notes marking the man’s route of travel to Saint-Omer with more interest.

“You’re behind,” he said. “You should have passed through here two days ago, given when you left Abbeville.”

“It was very hot, sir,” the man stammered, awkwardly clutching his cap in his hands. “Didn’t know where to find water, and you know they won’t have someone like me in an inn. So I walked on, although my feet hurt very much, and I slept in the forest, where it was cool, and I followed the sound of water in the morning because I was very thirsty, you see. Only I couldn’t find the road again after that, and the forest didn’t end, and—”

“Very well.” Javert cut off the man’s pathetic explanations, stamping the man’s travel route before handing the passport back together with the small handful of coins he was owed for his next leg of travel. “Make sure you’re out of the gates by first morning light.”

“Thank you, sir,” the man stammered. “Only where will I go, sir? The inn will not have me, surely, they never do…”

“That’s no problem of mine.” Javert looked back down at his report, but a moment later, he laughed when he remembered an earlier conversation.

“Why don’t you seek out the owner of that factory of jet beads?” There was a small smile on his face as he eyed the ragged man before him, seeing another man’s face. “I am told Monsieur Robert is a good man. Surely a compassionate man who goes to Mass every Sunday will have a bed for you.”

He made a dismissive gesture, idly watching as the man left. Would Monsieur Robert allow a convicted criminal to sleep in his house? A man with a yellow passport? Surely not.

For all that he still seemed unnaturally attached to Valjean, there was always an element of hypocrisy in compassionate men like that. And for a good reason, too—it was all very well to give alms and fund hospitals, but Javert knew firsthand the evil caused by such degenerate men. Released from Toulon, from Rochefort, from Brest, these beasts thought that they were free—and in tasting that freedom, their minds were inevitably drawn back to those acts of greed and violence that had landed them in the hulks in the first place. As wretched as this man pretended to be, wouldn’t he resort to theft, perhaps even to murder, as soon as he was hungry and alone on the road with an honest traveler?

“You have a soft spot for those convicts, chief.”

Delrue’s voice drew him from his thoughts. When Javert looked up in consternation at the familiar tone, he saw that they were alone once more, the ex-convict no longer in the station-house.

“Can’t spoil them all like that Jean Valjean. People will talk.”

Javert remained silent, eying the man in disbelief.

Apparently oblivious to the thin ice he was on, Delrue continued, “If it were me, now, I know whom I’d have serving my soup. That Fantine’s a beauty. And she has a reason to be grateful to you, sir.”

“Does she,” Javert said coldly.

Behind Delrue, the door slowly opened. A moment later, Fantine entered, hesitating when she saw that Javert was not alone.

Javert ignored her, too astonished by Delrue’s impertinence to deal with her presence.

“You know. Saving her child and all that.”

Javert scoffed. “She has Valjean to thank for that. What do I care about her child?”

Delrue smiled, as if he’d tricked Javert into giving away more than he’d intended.

“So was it Valjean you cared about then?”

“I don’t know what you think you’re doing,” Javert said, carefully keeping his voice even, “but I suggest you get back to your work. I’ll hear no more talk about this issue. Valjean is my problem; he doesn’t concern you.”

“Of course, sir.” Delrue was still smiling slightly, and Javert could see him start when he turned and saw Fantine there. His smile widened; she in turn paid him no heed, her eyes on Javert as she knotted her hands into her stained apron with much the same anxiety as the ex-convict earlier.

“Has there been another letter, sir?” she asked tentatively.

Javert raised his brows at Delrue, who was still staring at her. Unimpressed with the man’s conduct, he watched as Delrue finally left. Only when the man had at last closed the door behind him did he wave Fantine closer.

“There’s not much of note in it,” he said, sparing her the paragraph where the inn-keeper was trying yet again to demand money for some contrived reason. 

“Here; it says that the clothes for Cosette have arrived and that they fit well. This is what he writes: The girl looks like a little princess in her new coat. Of course, given the trifling sum the state sees fit to pay kindhearted people who take a child like her into their home, she has to make herself useful around the inn now. Well, that’s to be expected. How old is she now?”

“She will be six now, sir.” Fantine’s eyes were still on the letter in his hands. “Of course, that’s the way in an inn like that. I’m sure their own little girls are helping out by now; I can just see those three little angels making a game of helping with the washing up and the cleaning of the rooms. What a joy that must be for a traveler to arrive in Montfermeil and to be greeted by those small, smiling faces!”

“It’s a good thing to teach them the value of honest work when they’re young,” Javert said. “I was working for my living at that age—and there was no inn-keeper to give me a roof over my head, and no one paying for my upkeep. She has it well enough, your daughter.”

“Yes, sir,” Fantine said.

He’d expected that she’d leave at that. Instead, she raised her head after a moment, studying him with the same scrutiny she’d given the letter in his hands. “Is it true what you said about Jean Valjean?”

“What did I say about him?”

“That I have to thank him, not you.”

Javert scoffed. “What, you think your begging in court would have changed my mind? No. Jean Valjean decided to ask for a deal. I thought he’d have told you all about that.”

She ignored his words. “What kind of deal?”

“He said he’d sign himself over into indenture just like you. Willingly.” Javert smiled slightly at the memory. “In return, I’d see to the upkeep of the child. It wasn’t so bad a deal for the town—we’re getting the labor of three men out of him. And I find it quite effective to see a man serve the punishment for his crimes in the very community he wronged. It makes for an excellent lesson for all involved. Wouldn’t you agree?”

“Yes. A lesson indeed,” Fantine said bitterly. Then she took a deep breath and smoothed her rumpled skirt. When she spoke again, her voice was soft and her eyes respectfully lowered. “When you write to the innkeepers, please send Cosette my love, and that I think of her every day.”

Javert eyed her with approval. “There, see? Even you have learned that lesson.”

Fantine’s lips tightened, but she didn’t protest. Just like Jean Valjean, this was a lesson she’d had to learn the hard way—but she’d learned it, just like Valjean would eventually.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


It was late when Valjean returned to the barracks, although the sun had not yet sunk below the horizon. He stood at the window for a while, looking out at the small patch of weeds that had overgrown the narrow area between the servants’ barracks and the station-house’s stable.

Eventually he tiredly rolled his shoulders and began to wash and dress in clean clothes. Javert had not summoned him yet, although that was only a matter of time. Depending on Javert’s workload, Javert might be too distracted to retire to his apartment until another hour or two had passed. It was rare, but Valjean enjoyed those moments of privacy and solitude all the more. Even when Valjean had finished whatever tasks Javert would set him in his apartment, Valjean was always aware of Javert’s eyes resting on him.

When Valjean finally returned to the small kitchen area, he saw that Fantine had returned as well.

“Catch.”

It was the only warning he received before a heel of bread was thrown at him. Then an apple followed, and another apple, and another hard chunk of bread that he only managed to grab just in time before it could fall onto the floor.

Valjean stood bewildered, confused by the sight that met him. Fantine was glaring at him again, her mouth tight and narrow and her eyes filled with a helpless anger.

Had something happened? Had Javert…

Fantine grabbed hold of the basket that held the remaining bread. Before she could lift it to no doubt hurl it at Valjean’s chest as well, another hand came down to pull the basket out of her grasp.

“That’s our dinner,” Faillot said sharply. “Take your lover’s quarrel somewhere else. Some of us work hard for our food, you know. Not everyone gets to eat the Inspector’s food.”

Embarrassment made Valjean’s throat go tight as he remembered that Fantine had been there to observe how well Javert had him trained. Was this what had caused this? She’d been noticeably colder to him afterward, but had never confronted him about it. He’d been glad. What would he have been able to say?

She’d told him before that she didn’t need his protection—but she didn’t realize what it was like. That she hadn’t done anything wrong. If it was him in Javert’s bedchamber, at least there was a reason for why he was here, stripped of the life of honest men.

“I’m sorry,” he said, holding out the bread she’d thrown at him. “You should just take it. He’s right, you know.”

It was true—it was wrong to take a share of their communal food when he knew that Javert would be generous enough with his own, as long as Valjean behaved. And wasn’t he already long past shame? These people knew him for what he was, just as Javert did.

“I don’t need your help,” she said furiously. “I don’t want it! Especially not when you lie about it! Is this all part of some plan of yours? What the hell are you trying to do?”

Valjean stared at her. He couldn’t quite make sense of her words. When had he ever lied to her?

He’d gone to Robert to ask for clothes to be sent to Montfermeil, that much was true. But surely she couldn’t know that it was him who’d gone to Robert?

“Will you two stop it! We’re trying to eat here,” Marie said, dropping her spoon into the pot with a loud clang. “Go and fight outside, if you have to.”

A moment later, Fantine strode past Valjean, eyes still blazing. She yanked open the door to the small dormitory where Valjean slept with the other two men.

“Come on then,” she said. “You’re going to talk to me now, and you’ll tell me the truth.”

Apologetically, Valjean set down the bread and apples on the table, then followed Fantine inside. The curtain was still drawn back and allowed the warm rays of the evening sun in through the dusty windowpane.

“I’m sorry,” he said, as soon as he’d closed the door behind him. “Is this about the clothes Monsieur Robert sent to Montfermeil? I wasn’t doubting you. I know you’d do anything for your child. But I know him well and—”

“Ah, you’re singing a different song now,” Fantine said with no small amount of bitterness. “Because you didn’t believe a word of my story when I was begging you not to fire me. Just imagine, if you’d believed this back then, we both wouldn’t be here. Maybe I’d even have managed to bring my Cosette to Montreuil by now. But that’s right—I couldn’t have, or you and your superintendent would have found out. And then I would have been out of a job, with Cosette here to share in my misery.”

Stung, Valjean lowered his head. She was right. He’d tried so hard to be good at the time, but the first chance he’d been given to reach out to someone, to return the compassion shown to him in Digne, he’d recoiled—just as the men and women had recoiled from his yellow passport that bore the stamp of the hulks of Toulon.

“I’m sorry.” The words ached in his throat as he thought of the young boy he’d stolen from.

But then, Fantine already knew about that. Everyone in this town knew that he was the sort of man who’d steal money from a child.

“This isn’t about Robert,” she said a moment later. “I want to know what you’re playing at. I heard about that deal you made in Arras. I never even wondered about it before—of course you’d rather remain here instead of serving your sentence in the hulks. And I thought that Javert had found some compassion at last to continue paying those innkeepers. Do you know that they only take five francs from him? What he gives them is no more than what the state pays every family who takes in a homeless child. It isn’t much. And they asked for fifteen francs every month from me! But never mind now. That’s not what happened, is it? It was you who made Javert change his mind.”

“He wanted me to stay in Montreuil,” Valjean said hesitantly. “To serve my sentence here as an indentured servant, just like you did. The judge wouldn’t agree. A man has to sign himself over willingly, you see. So I had something to offer Javert.”

“And you made a deal with him.” Fantine gave him a considering look. “Yes. I think we’ve all seen that he wanted you to make that deal very much.”

Embarrassed, Valjean looked to the ground. It didn’t matter, he told himself again. In a year, Fantine would leave and be reunited with her child. She’d never see him again.

“So why didn’t you tell me? All these days you’ve walked past me with that wounded look on your face. I refused to set a place for you at the table, and you never said anything. You just walked past us and went to bed hungry. Or maybe not so hungry after all. Still. Why did you let us treat you like that? You can do anger well enough; we’ve seen that. But you’d rather starve, is that it? Rather starve than tell me the truth, when it is you who fired me for being dishonest.”

Stung, Valjean reared back. “What does it matter? Let it rest. I’m sorry for what happened. I’m trying to help you!”

“You’re not helping! I can take care of myself!”

“You don’t know what it’s like!”

His heart thundering in his chest, his ears still ringing with the echoes of voices that had once hurled insults at him, Valjean realized a moment too late that the words had burst out of him with enough force that Fantine should have run from the room in terror.

Instead, she was facing him with the same fury, her eyes blazing as she took a step forward. “Oh no. You don’t get to treat me like that anymore. I told you, I only lied to you because I was afraid of you. But I’m not scared by you anymore. You’re no better than me. You don’t get to judge me and make decisions for me.”

“I’m not better than you,” Valjean said after a long moment, his heart still racing. For once, he almost wished that Javert had been there to observe his outburst. He’d never intended to scare Fantine. “I’m a convict. A recidivist. I stole from a child. You heard all of that.”

“I did. And I also heard what you did for me. For my Cosette. So why did you never say a word, even when we treated you like a leper, ignoring you at dinner when we’ve seen you work just as hard as everyone else for your bread?”

Valjean gave her a helpless look. She had every right to be upset at the way he’d treated her—but what reason was there for her to worry about those evenings?

“You know what I am,” he said helplessly. “What I’ve done. You’ve treated me no worse than I deserve.”

“No. What I’ve done—what you’ve made me do by failing to be honest with me—was to treat you horribly. I’ve behaved like an ungrateful wretch. Oh, I’ve never asked for your help. I don’t want you to ever try and make my decisions for me again. But all the same, I won’t be tricked into mistreating you for no reason. That’s not a choice you get to make for me anymore.”

Valjean stared at her. Her fury over this still did not entirely make sense to him, but he nodded regardless.

“I’m sorry,” he said, abashed. “For everything I’ve done. You wouldn’t be here without me.”

“And you wouldn’t be here without me,” Fantine said. “Though I’m certain that this is better than the hulks. Still. Thank you, monsieur, for making sure that my child is looked after.”

Fantine smiled at him then—it was a small, tentative smile, not quite unlike those moments when she’d caught his eye in the factory.

He’d never truly had a friend before, but he realized that even back then, they’d had something in common. Both of them had been forced to keep their past a secret. Only Fantine had lied to protect a child. He’d lied only to protect himself.

But he was making up for that now. And maybe it would be enough to know that Fantine was reunited with her child at last, once her time here in Montreuil was over.

***

It was late when Valjean was at last called to Javert’s apartment. It was dark outside, and Javert had already lit the fire in his stove and drawn the curtains.

Javert’s coat was damp and his boots were muddy. He looked tired as he sat in his chair by the fire, his eyes closed as Valjean hurriedly cleaned everything away and then set the table for Javert’s dinner.

“I’ve been looking forward to this,” Javert murmured, gesturing at the floor.

Valjean obediently sank to his knees. Javert reached out and rested a hand on his head. There was something almost soothing in the sensation of Javert’s fingers running through his hair. Valjean had become so used to it that he no longer flinched when Javert touched his head.

Javert made a thoughtful sound after a moment, his fingers curling against Valjean’s nape, then tracing back up. “It’s growing rather long, isn’t it,” Javert mused, then laughed at Valjean’s instinctive start.

“You realize I have no intention of hurting you.” Javert’s fingers traced along one of the old scars on his scalp. “I prefer different ways of dealing with you, when you give me reason to.”

Valjean could not help the shudder despite Javert’s words. The memory of dull razor blades nicking his skin were lodged too deep in his mind. Even so, he didn’t protest. He saw himself in the mirror when he shaved, after all. He knew it had been coming.

Javert kept stroking his head, his fingers idly tracing through Valjean’s hair while the fire crackled, the stove giving off a welcome heat on this autumn evening.

It truly was not so bad—it would have been much worse in Toulon. In the hulks, no barber would have cared whether a blade cut him. Javert, he believed, did care. Javert had never hurt him from mere neglectfulness. There was intention behind Javert’s every act.

Valjean swallowed, bending his head as Javert smoothed a lock of hair back behind his ear.

“Sir,” he said softly, shame welling up inside him once more at the memory. “I lost my temper today. I shouted at Fantine.”

It felt good to have it out in the open, although merely speaking it had made him feel even more wretched. How could he have shouted at Fantine when he’d been trying to make up for his ill treatment of her all this time? He’d fought it for so long, but Javert was right. He’d lashed out like an animal driven into a corner.

“Did you?” Javert’s hand came forward, his thumb stroking along Valjean’s cheek. Then, with an abrupt motion, he grabbed hold of Valjean’s chin. “Why are you telling me this?”

Valjean looked up at Javert, his heart racing in his chest. He squeezed his eyes shut after a moment. “Because I’m sorry. Because I shouldn’t have. She didn’t deserve it.”

Because he deserved to be punished. And because Javert had promised that he’d drive the animal out of him.

With a thoughtful hum, Javert released his chin after a moment. “I see,” he said, sounding almost amused.

He gazed at Valjean for a long moment. Valjean quietly met his gaze, clenching his hand until his nails dug into his palm where the round, red brand had stopped hurting long ago.

“Despite your stubbornness, you do want to learn, don’t you…” Javert brushed his thumb almost gently across Valjean’s lips, then released him.

“Serve my dinner.”

Valjean moved quietly, still lost in a haze of misery as he filled Javert’s glass with wine and brought his food—fish this time, stewed with butter and white wine, and served with a generous amount of white bread. When he was done and knelt by Javert’s side, Javert’s fingertips stroked his nape for a moment before he began to eat.

Javert was not only generous with the food, but even allowed Valjean sips of his wine today until Valjean wondered in despair whether Javert had not understood. And of course, perhaps he had not—perhaps to Javert, it did not matter whether Valjean shouted at Fantine, who was after all but another indentured servant.

He clenched his hand again at the thought, but the brand had healed long ago. There was no pain, just the memory of that dusty, hot road and the silver coin in his hand while a watchful sun glared down at him in judgment. Still, when Javert’s fingers came up to his mouth with a morsel of bread soaked in the rich broth the fish had stewed in, he took it without protest, licking the butter from Javert’s fingers the way Javert liked it.

Only when Javert had finished his dinner did he finally act on Valjean’s earlier confession. While Valjean cleaned the table, Javert rose and opened a drawer. Valjean caught a glimpse of a bundle of dried red peppers. Heat rushed to his face at the sight and he hastily turned away while Javert laughed softly—but all the same, there was a bottomless relief spreading through Valjean, his tense shoulders relaxing at last.

Perhaps he was going mad to ask this of Javert of all people. Still, did it matter who applied the punishment? Valjean might not agree with Javert about most things—but to shout at Fantine had been a wretched thing to do. Just one more act in a long line of miserable choices that had led both her and him into this situation, it was true, but nevertheless it was something he should be made to pay for.

Fortunately Javert was always willing to make him pay for his sins.

When Valjean had finished clearing away the remnants of Javert’s dinner, Javert had retreated back to his chair by the fire, taking his glass of wine and a shallow bowl with him, which he placed on a small table by his side.

Javert motioned for Valjean to approach, who was beginning to feel apprehensive as he remembered the burning pain he’d experienced the last time. Nevertheless, he sank to his knees, eying the bowl warily.

Javert laughed. “It seems that this is more effective than I feared. Though perhaps, if you actually ask for it, it’s not enough of a punishment to be a deterrent?”

Valjean swallowed and shook his head. He remembered the agony all too well. It truly hadn’t been much different from holding the glowing coin in his hand.

“I wasn’t asking for it, sir.” The denial sounded weak to his own ears, because the truth was, of course, that he’d hoped for it.

“But you know what’s going to happen if you don’t learn some manners, don’t you?”

Valjean nodded heavily, unable to take his eyes from the bowl. “Yes, sir.”

“And there will be no begging this time?”

Valjean swallowed, then shook his head. “No sir. And no relief for me either, after.”

At that, Javert raised a brow, then laughed again, still sounding amused. Nevertheless, he seemed willing enough to play along.

Of course, when had Javert ever missed an opportunity to remind Valjean of his place?

“Have it your way then. You do like doing things the hard way, don’t you?” Javert sounded almost affectionate—but then, of course, Valjean already knew that to Javert, he merely held the same fascination as a favored horse might to another man.

Javert dipped his finger into the bowl. When he held it out to Valjean, it was once again coated with the oily, red paste Valjean remembered well. He could smell it, too—the sharp scent was enough to make his eyes start to water.

He deserved this. He deserved this for shouting at Fantine, the one person who least deserved his anger. If he wanted to be more than the animal that they’d made of him in the hulks, then he needed to control his instincts. He’d learn that lesson—even if he had to learn it at Javert’s hands.

Valjean leaned forward, parting his lips, just as he had opened for the morsels of white bread and juicy fish. He took Javert’s finger into his mouth, the taste and the warmth of him familiar by now, although this time, instead of the salt of Javert’s skin he could only take the smoky sweetness of the dried peppers.

Warmth spread across Valjean’s tongue, saliva gathering at the back of his mouth. The warmth rapidly turned to heat—and then, just like the first time, it began to burn.

Even knowing what to expect this time, the pain of it was overwhelming. It felt as if his tongue was on fire, flames licking at the roof of his mouth. Tears were running uncontrollably from his eyes, and there was an agonized shout stuck in the back of his throat—but he squeezed his eyes shut and curled his tongue around Javert’s finger, forcing himself to suck the burning pepper from his skin instead.

“It really is quite effective, isn’t it,” Javert murmured somewhere above him as Valjean wept helplessly.

The fire in his mouth was nearly unbearable, but he bore it, just as he’d born the pain of the burning coin before. This, at last, was a punishment he knew he deserved—and it was the only way he could see of becoming a man better than the one he’d been.

The amount of money foster parents were paid are taken from Rachel Ginnis Fuchs, Abandoned Children: Foundlings and Child Welfare in Nineteenth-Century France, table 7.2.

After several days of rain, sunshine had finally dried wet fields and streets. In the morning, autumnal mist had filled the alley outside Javert’s window, but as the sun continued to rise, it had quickly dispersed.

Javert had taken a recovered Noiraude for a ride along the Canche, making certain that the rain had not made the river swell so much that there had been damage done to bridges or paths. It turned out that close to where the road split to lead towards Écuires, the constant rain had indeed weakened the soil so much that an old chestnut growing on the riverbank had half sunk into the water. Its branches now leaned low across the road and made the passage difficult for carriages.

On his return to Montreuil, Javert had sent Delrue to gather the men from the barracks and take Caillot, Fasquel and Valjean out to deal with that obstacle. The thought of Valjean straining under the heavy load as he once had in Toulon was an image that had been on Javert’s mind ever since—but the removal of a dead tree was hardly a task fit for the Chief of Police.

Instead, Javert had remained in the station-house for most of the day, hearing a complaint against a stable lad whom a traveler had accused of theft, interrogating a woman of the town who wanted to leave her profession, and questioning another woman who wanted to abandon her infant to the sisters of charity.

By the time the sun was beginning to descend and the shadows lengthening, Javert was in half a mind to demand his horse be readied for him to see if he could not catch the last few minutes of Valjean straining beneath a heavy branch or pulling a rope, all brute strength finally used in obedience to Javert’s wishes. Instead, scowling as he remembered Delrue’s half-smirk as he collected his orders, Javert remained at his desk, staring down at his notes on the stable lad without truly seeing them.

He’d chosen to deal with Delrue’s blunder by increasing his workload. Delrue hadn’t voiced a single complaint; he had no family, as far as Javert was aware, except for an uncle who worked as a farm hand near Hesdin. Delrue was a hard worker, not given to distraction by drink or women, was strict with the men he apprehended and unmoved by pitiful tales or tears.

It was unfortunate that gaining Javert’s approval seemed to have given him the idea that they were on an equal level. Javert had worked hard for the social standing he had reached as Chief of Police of Montreuil—Delrue, hard worker that he might be, was no more than a police spy. And if Delrue hoped to one day have a position like Javert’s, then this false familiarity with Javert was not the way to go about it. Javert, who had after all been in Delrue’s position during the years since he’d left the hulks of Toulon, would never have thought of addressing his old chief with such condescending familiarity. The old man he’d served under would certainly have had a word or two to say about that.

Javert straightened, banishing all thoughts of Valjean and Delrue from his mind. There was still work to be done, after all.

It took him another hour to get his notes on the interrogations conducted today into order. The stable lad hadn’t said much that made sense, but a few remarks made by the traveler who had accused the boy had aroused Javert’s interest, and Javert wrote a note to the Prefecture with the details the man had given about his travels.

Then, just as he’d folded the letter, the door opened and three of his men came in. They seemed relaxed, laughing as they entered, although they fell silent as soon as they were inside. A good sign: it seemed there had been no further disturbances of the peace. Javert gave a curt nod at his desk and Gilbert came forward immediately to collect the letter to go out with the next post coach, taking the reports Javert had written to join those of the past.

“Where’s Delrue?” Javert demanded.

“Should be back any minute now. He decided the men were going to finish the work they started, no matter how long it took them.”

There was a muted laughter—a reaction unusual enough that Javert narrowed his eyes at the men.

“Your man Jean Valjean gave him some trouble, I believe,” Gilbert said. “Don’t worry, sir, Delrue will sort it out.”

This did nothing to calm Javert. Valjean had been obedient enough during the past week—still choosing to sleep on the floor, but obeying Javert’s wishes in everything else. Javert had not once been forced to make use of the stash of red peppers from Cayenne or his belt.

What was it that caused Valjean’s sudden moods? There was no pattern that he could see…

His own mood having drastically worsened, Javert rose and abandoned his desk. His work was done, in any case; it was early yet for his dinner and Valjean was not there to serve it, so instead Javert took his coat and his hat and went for a walk along the Canche, returning through the narrow alleys where the women of the town plied their business.

By the time he returned to his apartment, it was dark. He lit the stove, then poured himself a glass of wine, pondering how he was going to deal with Valjean’s disobedience today. Perhaps it would have to be the belt—no matter what, he’d force some sense into Valjean’s stubborn head.

Then the door opened and Valjean entered. Valjean was on his own. Javert, who had expected Delrue to accompany him to give him a full report on the man’s misconduct, frowned when Valjean closed the door behind him and slowly advanced towards him. Valjean did not meet his gaze—good; at least Valjean was aware that he had misbehaved and was appropriately penitent.

Javert eyed him sharply, then pointed to the floor.

Valjean seemed to hesitate for a moment. There was a rebellious look on his face, his mouth a firm, narrow line as he sank to his knees at last. When Javert reached out for his head, he actually flinched away.

With a frown, Javert grabbed a fistful of his hair, ignoring Valjean’s pained gasp as he pulled him closer.

“What’s the matter with you today?” Javert demanded impatiently. “I’ve already heard all about your offenses today, and now you think you can act up here as well? What brought this about—is it just another of your sullen moods?”

Valjean did look sullen, his lips tightly pressed together, his eyes blazing with fury for once instead of the usual expression of quiet suffering that was infuriatingly akin to that of a martyr.

“Don’t test me,” Javert said. “I’m already in a bad mood. So you think you can act up when I’m not around, is that it? I’ve heard all about how you clashed with Delrue today. Never mind, I can see I will have to beat the respect for him into you.”

Valjean was breathing quickly, his chest rising and falling. There was a sheen of sweat on the skin that was bared at his throat, and when Javert tightened his grip on his hair in warning, Valjean made an involuntary sound, his eyes wide with an instinctive panic Javert hadn’t seen in a while.

Javert scoffed. “It truly is like trying to teach a mule. For God’s sake, I’m not going to hurt your head, Valjean, so stop it. I have other ways of trying to beat some sense into you—and right now I’m quite of a mind to take my belt to your backside. If you act out against one of my men, not only do you act out against me, but you also embarrass me in front of them. That’s what you’ve done today. You’ve shown Delrue that I don’t have you fully under control. Maybe that’s why you did it. But you won’t do it again; I’ll make sure of that.”

Valjean’s breath came in little pants, and Javert, frustrated with this sudden setback that seemed to have come out of nowhere, clenched his hand in Valjean’s hair to give his head an impatient shake.

Valjean’s eyes were wide, his pupils dilated, looking much like a spooked horse—though surely Javert had never given him a reason to believe he’d start cuffing him about the head. Javert felt indignation rise up in him, and utter bafflement at this man who kept frustrating him with his moods.

And then Javert’s fingers touched something warm and sticky, and he frowned.

Valjean made another sound and tried to instinctively recoil when Javert probed his head, but Javert did not release him. The patch of skin beneath his fingers was hot and swollen.

What had come to pass here? Had Valjean accidentally injured himself while working? Was that what had made him clash with Delrue? The man would have no idea how to read Valjean’s moods…

“Hold still,” Javert said sternly, and after a moment, still breathing heavily, Valjean quieted. “Good. Now tilt your head forward. Let me see.”

Another moment of hesitation, and then Valjean’s shoulders slumped and he obeyed.

Javert was careful when he parted the short hair. Valjean’s hair was naturally dark, but now that he knew what to look for, he could see where it had clumped together with dried blood.

The wound was not large, fortunately; it would be tender for a few days, but then should heal on its own.

“So that’s why,” Javert muttered. “And here I thought you’d gone mad. Well, accidents happen, I suppose. Can’t blame you for that. Still. I will touch you where and how I please, and you will let me. That hasn’t changed. Understood?”

He released Valjean’s head, and Valjean nodded miserably.

That was more like it. With a smile, Javert reached out to cup Valjean’s face, drawing his thumb along Valjean’s lips to reinforce that message.

And then he found himself stopped once more, for something about Valjean’s lips felt off as well. One side of his bottom lip was noticeably warmer and felt somewhat swollen.

Javert frowned. “Look at me,” he said, and when Valjean’s head rose obediently, he gently slipped a finger in between Valjean’s lip and his teeth, pulling his lip down.

There, on the tender pink skin on the inside of Valjean’s lip, was a wound. It must have stopped bleeding a while ago, but the flesh was hot and reddened; one of Valjean’s teeth must have made a deep incision there.

Javert exhaled with displeasure. “Does that hurt?”

Valjean’s eyes warily met his. He no longer looked quite as panicked as he had earlier, when Javert had examined his head. Slowly, he inclined his head.

Javert released Valjean’s lip. Lost in thought, he stroked a fingertip along the uninjured upper lip; after a moment, Valjean hesitantly caught his finger with his mouth.

One wound could be an accident. Two, on the other hand…

The familiar wet heat of Valjean’s mouth had begun to stir a just as familiar heat in him, but Javert paid it no attention as he pulled his finger free.

“Stand up,” he said quietly. “Take off your shirt.”

Valjean licked his lips. The anger blazing in his eyes earlier seemed to have gone out of him; perhaps the panic when Javert had toyed with his head had burned it away, or he had at last come to remember that Javert was not an unreasonable man, as long as Valjean remembered his manners.

Valjean’s chest was gleaming with a thin layer of sweat. There was no dirt on him; as usual, he had to have washed in the barracks and pulled on clean clothes before coming to serve Javert. Nevertheless, there were two patches of darkened skin which could not be smudges of mud.

Bruises.

“Turn around,” Javert commanded.

A part of him had known what he would see, but the indignation and anger rising up inside him at the sight still surprised him with its force.

Valjean’s back was covered in red welts. They were fresh—it had been a while since Javert had last been forced to take a switch or a belt to him, especially as the peppers had proved to be a far more powerful deterrent to Valjean’s occasional bouts of petulance.

Javert’s stomach churned, his chest tight with sudden fury. When he reached out to touch Valjean’s back, Valjean flinched but didn’t pull away. Tracing a welt, Javert could feel the heat of Valjean’s skin.

Not a belt—a switch, perhaps, or a cane.

Javert stared at where his fingers pressed against a reddened weal.

“What happened?”

Valjean shrugged awkwardly, the gesture making reddened skin pull tight over the bones of his shoulder blades. “I angered Delrue, sir.”

Javert had known it from the moment he’d first become aware of the wound on Valjean’s head, but even so, the sudden rise of anger in him nearly took his breath away. Who did Delrue think he was, to avail himself of Javert’s privileges?

Javert struggled to keep himself under control. It was true that Valjean was merely an indentured servant, and that Delrue had been sent to oversee his work and make certain that he behaved. And he knew Valjean—it was only too likely that Valjean had fallen into one of his spells of rebellion and brought this on himself.

Still—this wasn’t one whack with a cane to get Valjean back in line, followed by a report to Javert. From the looks of the welts, Delrue had been vicious—and not only that. There was the swollen lip, the bruised skin of his stomach, the cut at his head.

“He beat you.”

Valjean nodded, still looking strangely wary, as if he was surprised by Javert’s fury.

“And those bruises on your stomach?”

Valjean grimaced. “He kicked me when I fell.”

“And he slapped you?”

Valjean nodded warily, his eyes on Javert.

“And the wound on your head—a glancing blow with the cane?”

Valjean’s shoulders came up, hunching together protectively as if the mere memory made him want to shy away from Javert.

“I fell when he beat me, sir. He did not like that.”

Javert struggled with the indignation and anger that image provoked. He well remembered Delrue’s familiarity with him. Right now, he was half of a mind to get a cane and give Delrue a good thrashing himself.

Of course, that was impossible—Valjean was merely an indentured servant, after all, and a dangerous convict. Delrue, on the other hand, was a police agent and a man under Javert’s command. One could not employ the same methods of discipline for such men.

Nevertheless, with Valjean’s skin hot and sore beneath his fingertips, it was almost impossible to contain his anger.

Had Delrue merely overestimated his own importance? Any other agent would have given Valjean a whack or two to keep him in line and then reported to Javert, for it was the Chief of Police’s prerogative to see that justice was meted out to the men under his supervision.

What next—would Delrue take it upon himself to investigate and make arrests, to send reports to the Prefecture? To demand other services of Valjean, as if he were not merely a spy who reported to Javert?

If the thought of Delrue whipping Valjean had made Javert indignant, the thought of Delrue forcing Valjean to his knees and making use of his mouth had him incandescent with rage.

For a moment, Javert contemplated having Delrue summoned back to the station-house to give him the talking-to he deserved. Even now, the memory of Delrue’s insouciant smile made anger rise inside him—and yet, he had risen too far to not be aware of the dangers that might come from gaining a certain reputation. Not for a man with his background and parentage.

He needed to remember that this town was merely a stepping stone. Sooner or later, Javert would leave, never to return—and he would leave Delrue behind together with the provincialism of this small town.

No, he’d have to deal with Delrue, but he’d do it tomorrow, when he was calm enough to think of a way to get the man to learn his lesson.

And today...

“I will leave your head alone,” Javert said. “That will heal on its own.”

There was a relief in his eyes as Valjean nodded.

“Your stomach?”

“Bruises, sir,” Valjean said quietly. “I know what it feels like when its not.”

“Very well.” It was true; if a rib had been broken or an organ damaged, even Valjean would not have been able to walk into his room as if nothing was the matter with him. “Then go and stand by the wash basin. I’ll clean your back.”

The welts on Valjean’s back did not truly need attention either; it was no worse than what he had suffered before at Javert’s hands. Nevertheless, the sight of them on Valjean’s skin still made him furious. Deserved or not, it had not been Delrue’s right to mete out that kind of punishment. Javert would have to find a way to deal with the man.

There would be no rebellion in this town, not while he was Chief of Police—neither from the indentured servants, nor from one of his own men.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean flinched when the wet cloth first touched his back. Javert was careful, almost gentle, and the coolness of the water was soothing. Valjean tensed when Javert wiped along his nape—but true to his promise, Javert left his head alone after that, returning to slide the cold, wet cloth over the hot welts until the throb of pain began to ease somewhat.

“What did you do?” Javert asked after a moment, as if the almost companionable silence was as disconcerting to him as it was to Valjean. “No—I already know that. Why did you do it?”

Valjean stared down into the bowl of water, his hands splayed on the dark wood of the desk. In the water, he could see a dull reflection of his face.

Finally he closed his eyes, releasing a weary breath. “I don’t know, sir. I didn’t like the way he shouted at me.”

Javert made an amused sound. “You’re not that stupid, Valjean. Try again.”

Valjean remained silent for a moment. His entire body ached. The cold water was soothing, but right now, more than ever, he yearned for the private bedroom and the soft bed that had been his alone for many years.

“I didn’t like the way he looked at Fantine, sir,” he admitted quietly. And if Fantine had been given an opportunity to start a fight with Delrue, not only might it have ended badly for her, but then certainly Javert would have summoned her to serve his food this evening instead of Valjean.

As easy as his weariness sometimes made it to fall into complacency, he needed to remember that there were limits to Javert’s obsession with him. And as much as Fantine had not wanted his protection, he wasn’t only doing this for her sake. He already carried so much guilt with him. To know her here in his place instead—how would he be able to sleep?

A beating was a better way to spend the night than the sleepless hours of torment that he’d find in his bed in the barracks.

“And you think it is your right to interfere?” Javert laughed against the back of his neck. “Maybe the fault lies with me if both of you, two men under my authority, think you can simply assume privileges that are not yours. Is that it, Valjean? Am I too lax in my discipline?”

“What would you have me do, sir?” Valjean said bitterly, still staring at the bowl of water. “Shall I come to complain to you about Delrue, so that you can beat me for impertinence instead of him, and meanwhile Fantine has to suffer his attentions?”

“There’s something about that woman that brings out the worst in you,” Javert muttered. “I wonder why that is. She’s pretty enough, but if you’d had her, you wouldn’t have fired her—not you.”

“I told you. It’s because it is my fault that she’s even here.”

“So you say. But surely that’s no reason for your constant disobedience. Maybe it’s because I make it too easy for you. You don’t like it when it’s easy. You’ll only submit after a fight, every time. Even though you’re astute enough to realize that it could be easy. Is that it?”

Stung, Valjean straightened and turned to face Javert, although he bit back the reply on his tongue just in time. “Maybe it’s because it shouldn’t be easy. Maybe it’s because you have no right to—”

He bit back the words that had wanted to burst free just in time, struggling for breath as he stared at Javert.

Javert only smiled. “It’s that damned temper of yours. Can’t beat it out of you, though I’m starting to think that’s what you want.”

“No man wants to be beaten for speaking the truth.”

“That’s because your truth doesn’t count, Valjean. It did when you were a magistrate, when people didn’t know better. But do you know what that is, the truth of a convict? Disrespect. Rebellion. Sullenness. And you know what truth counts now, don’t you?”

Valjean took another deep breath, still fighting the instinctive need to lash out despite the beating it had already earned him.

“Yours does, sir,” he said grudgingly.

Javert smiled. “That’s right. You know it. Don’t forget it again.”

For a moment, Javert stared at him. Impotently, Valjean clenched his fists, struggling to keep his breathing under control. Something was burning in his eyes, and he averted his face, squeezing his eyes shut as well until it passed.

“No, sir,” he said at last, his voice hoarse, although Javert mercifully did not comment on it.

“Good. Now serve my dinner.”

***

Later, after Javert was done and Valjean had cleared his table, Javert retreated into his chair by the stove with a book. Valjean poured him more of his wine, and when Javert motioned at the floor, Valjean sank obediently to his knees, his beaten body still aching dully.

“How is your head?” Javert asked.

Instinct made Valjean immediately jerk back. “It’s fine. It will heal.”

“Let me check it again.” Javert made an impatient gesture when Valjean stared reluctantly at his hand.

At last, after taking a deep breath, he forced himself to lean forward, his shoulders hunching in discomfort as he bent his head. From this angle, he could not see Javert’s hand. Javert could do whatever he wanted, and Valjean wouldn’t know until it was too late—

Valjean flinched when Javert touched his hair.

“Hold still,” Javert said firmly. “I’ve told you before, I’m not going to mess with your head. But I will touch, and you will let me.”

Silent but tense, Valjean suffered through the examination. Despite Javert’s obvious frustration at finding him as skittish as a beaten horse, his touch was careful and patient.

“I’d pour some salt water over it,” Javert muttered, his fingers holding his hair out of the way, “but it’ll heal well enough, I think. And you would rather I leave it alone, don’t you?”

Even now, Valjean’s heart was beating erratically in his breast, his throat tight. He knew Javert wouldn’t harm him—not like this, not Javert. Javert liked to prove his mastery with a cane or a belt. He was an ambitious man, who’d long since realized that to move to the position of authority he desired, he’d have to leave the pettiness of the guards in the hulks behind.

Still, despite that knowledge, the panic the touches had aroused were hard to fight, Javert’s hands on his head bringing back memories of men more petty than him—rough barbers with dull blades who had only laughed when a blade nicked the skin of a convict’s head, guards who took delight in roughing a man up.

“Please, sir,” Valjean said roughly, and Javert chuckled as he patted the uninjured side of his head.

“Very well. I’ll have another look tomorrow.”

Javert did not actually release his head, and so Valjean had no choice but to remain on his knees before him, head bowed, as Javert’s fingers traced across his shorn hair.

It wasn’t so bad, he told himself even as his heart kept racing. Javert’s touch was slow and regular, making certain to stay away from the wound, his thumb rubbing a gentle circle behind his ear. Despite the tension thrumming in his body, Valjean forced himself to hold still for it. If Javert wanted to spend his evening petting him like a favored horse or cat, who was he to deny him?

Every now and then, the regular motions ceased and Javert would lower his wineglass to Valjean’s lips, allowing him to sip. Valjean drank gratefully, his throat parched from the instinctive panic, which now at last began to recede.

Javert refilled his glass once or twice, always returning to stroke Valjean’s head—surely still glorying in the convict haircut, but Valjean found it hard to resent that now, grateful for the quiet. It was rare to have moments to himself in Javert’s apartment, and although he was not truly alone right now, Javert seemed content enough to leave him to his own thoughts.

Little by little, he relaxed, allowing Javert’s leg to his right to take some of his weight. The fire had nearly died down when he realized with sudden shock that as the time had passed, he must have dozed off. Somehow, he had come to rest with his head on Javert’s knee, Javert’s fingers still in his hair. He couldn’t recall how he’d ended up in that position. He must have been asleep, at least for a few minutes, for he could still dimly recall that a sound had woken him—perhaps a log shifting in the stove, as the room was still warm.

Javert hadn’t roused him. In fact, when he cautiously looked up, he found that Javert’s eyes were closed as well, his face relaxed. His hand was still buried in Valjean’s hair, although it had ceased moving.

Valjean contemplating getting up—it was a rare chance to have some moments to himself in Javert’s room. His knees were aching and he was tired; he could use the chance to stretch his legs, perhaps to take Javert’s Bible or one of his books and read a few pages.

Valjean found he couldn’t move. It was rare to see Javert at ease, and strangely difficult to look away. At rest, the sternness of his features softened, Javert seemed younger—not innocent, but not so different from other men he had known, weary after a long day.

Had he ever seen Javert at ease in the hulks? He must have—there must have been days of leisure for Javert, perhaps spent practicing his reading in a shadowed corner where the breeze from the sea could reach him, or afternoons joking with the other guards.

And yet all Valjean could remember was the outline of a man tormenting him, the eyes that had always been staring with suspicion, the way Valjean had been dragged through streets, circled, shoved.

If anyone back then had asked him if guards ever slept, ever read, ever amused themselves, he would have stared without understanding—or, perhaps, if he’d understood, he would have spit and turned away.

He’d been an animal back then, because he had been treated like one—which in turn had made him see the guards that tormented them as little better, a pack of vicious dogs that had been set to incarcerate wolves.

It was different here. Javert had changed; Javert had wanted better than the hulks for himself, and he’d risen in the world. Valjean understood; he had wanted the same, though for a different reason.

In shedding the animal, he’d shed that animal blindness as well. It was impossible now to look at Javert and feel the old, impotent rage of the convict.

Then his gaze dropped from Javert’s face further down and he froze, his musings forgotten when he found himself face to face with a bulge in Javert’s trousers.

Javert’s touch had been gentle—but even so, there were things Javert desired, ways to establish his authority, and it mattered little what Valjean wanted or not.

Valjean swallowed, thinking again of the one thing he knew Javert wanted, and which he had not demanded. Had Valjean been wrong to shy away from the thing? What right had he to deny Javert when after all it was only right that he suffer?

Javert had been wrong to leave him a choice. 

Had he been forced to do it, it would have been easy—Valjean knew in his heart of hearts that he deserved it, after all. Even with the choice he’d been given, if he’d overcome his pride and bent to Javert’s will right then at the beginning, he would have been over his shame after a day or two. Now, after months had passed, the task had built up before him until it had grown into a mountain, all because of his own stubbornness. To do it now would be no little thing—now, it would be a final surrender, a final submission to Javert’s will after months of struggle.

It was Valjean who had turned a small thing into what would be a great victory for Javert.

Perhaps even now, the easiest thing would be to simply get over with it, to swallow his pride just as he swallowed everything else Javert gave him. After a few days of shame, it would no longer matter.

There were worse things that could happen to him. He knew that well—better than most men. His aching body had learned that lesson anew today.

Valjean rested a hand on Javert’s thigh, still looking at where Javert’s arousal stretched beneath the fabric.

It would be very easy. Easier even than at any other moment: with Javert still asleep, he could reach out and open his trousers and take him into his mouth, and when Javert woke, he would already be too distracted to taunt Valjean with his surrender.

Valjean kept staring, unmoving. His fingers lightly curled against Javert’s thigh, but even though he knew that this was the best opportunity to get it over with as painlessly as possible, he could not make himself move.

Long minutes passed. The fire was crackling in the stove. Valjean sat unmoving, looking at Javert, and at last Javert shifted.

Sleepily, he reached out again, running his hand over Valjean’s head. Then, unabashed, he dropped his hand into his own lap, pressing the heel of his palm against his cock, massaging lightly as he held Valjean’s gaze.

For a moment, Valjean thought it would happen now—that Javert was as tired of this game as he was, this weight hanging over him whenever he was in this room.

Then, with a low moan, Javert’s hand dropped away. “Get me ready for bed,” he said, nodding at the door to the bedroom.

Valjean obeyed silently, ignoring the ache of his knees as he rose. His body was stiff, his bruised muscles aching, and by the time he had undressed Javert and folded his clothes, the thought of surrendering that last bit of himself and sleeping in Javert’s soft bed had become more tempting than ever.

Javert was still hard, watching Valjean thoughtfully.

“Come here,” he said at last, and Valjean obediently joined him on the bed.

“Kiss me.”

Valjean swallowed, inexplicably nervous even after all these weeks as he hesitated a moment and then leaned forward. The mattress was soft against his aching knees, and for all that Javert was as harsh and unyielding as steel, it was impossible to hate him when his mouth was softness and heat. Perhaps that was why, even now, it was kissing Javert that scared him the most.

It was easy to remember that what he was doing was a sacrifice, a punishment, when he spread himself out on Javert’s bed waiting to be used.

But with Javert’s lips against his own, his own tongue sliding against Javert’s until something in his stomach shifted and coiled with heat despite his uncertainty, it was impossible to think of punishment. With Javert’s taste and scent in his mouth and his nose, with Javert’s tongue soft and vulnerable against his own, all that remained was Javert the man.

That was perhaps the hardest lesson he had learned—and not from Javert’s hand, not from the fall of the belt or the whip. Left to itself, his body was enjoying Javert’s closeness, this false intimacy that was impossible to resist even so.

Javert had never needed to tell him to kiss him more than once, after all. And now, as before, Valjean found himself slowly rousing, his cock sliding against Javert’s stomach, Javert’s own shaft still hard against his thigh.

At last, Javert gently pushed at his shoulders until they were resting on their sides. One of the welts on his back ached, but it was bearable enough—preferable to being pushed onto his back, anyway. When Javert slid a hand between their bodies Valjean soon forgot even about that twinge of pain.

Slowly, Javert began to stroke them together. To his embarrassment, Valjean could hear himself moaning into the kiss. Mere hours ago, he’d cowered on the ground as Delrue had beaten him—and here he was, arching eagerly into Javert’s hand.

Shame twisted in his stomach, but he was achingly hard nevertheless, Javert’s grip pleasingly tight. There was nothing teasing about it, no tormenting, no drawing it out. Javert’s touch was firm and so demanding that Valjean found himself wrapping an arm around Javert’s shoulder, clutching at him as his hips came forward for more of his touch. Javert’s cock was just as hard as his own, his skin hot and damp with sweat. As Valjean trembled on the brink of release, aching with a need that made him dig his fingers into Javert’s shoulder, he hungrily slid his tongue deep into Javert’s mouth, all his earlier shame forgotten.

It was Javert who came first, his release spilling hot and slick over Valjean’s own cock. Javert groaned in deep satisfaction, keeping up his strokes as Valjean moaned and pushed demandingly into his hand—and then he too, found release, breaking the kiss at last to pant against the damp skin of Javert’s chest as he shuddered, spurt after spurt spilling from him as he mouthed at sweaty skin.

Javert was the first to move, reaching out for a rag to wipe them down.

On any other day, Valjean would have roused first to go to the washbasin and then clean Javert before wiping himself down and settling at last on the floor. Today, exhausted beyond thought, the promise of the soft mattress for the night seemed no longer such a high price to pay for what would be expected of him in return. His body ached, and he was weary. They both knew it had to happen. Why not simply let it happen now?

Several minutes passed. Then, gently but firmly, Javert nudged him upright.

“You’ll sleep on the floor tonight,” he said. “I have no desire for a surrender brought about by Delrue’s hands.”

Valjean laughed hoarsely. Inexplicably, his eyes stung, and he turned his head away. “You could have just forced me. All this time...”

“The floor, Valjean,” Javert said again.

Tiredly, Valjean obeyed, his sore body protesting at the thought of the wooden boards and the single blanket. It wasn’t so bad, he told himself—the room was warm enough thanks to the stove. The blanket could pad the floor beneath him tonight.

A moment later, one of Javert’s blankets was pushed to the floor.

“Sleep,” Javert said. Then he turned off the lamp.

Sorry for the irregular updates right now, there've been too many exchanges plus I've got a vacation coming up - hopefully next month will be back to regular weekly chapters.

Valjean rose slowly in the morning, attending to all his usual duties without complaint, although Javert could see that the bruises had begun to darken, and that Valjean was moving more slowly than usual.

Valjean had not brought up the preceding night, and as he watched Valjean, still bare, muscles gleaming as he quietly washed by the window, Javert pondered whether he had been wrong to send Valjean back to the floor. It had taken a long time for Valjean to bend so far. Did it truly matter that it had only happened after Delrue’s beating? It made one thing more obvious after all: it was only Valjean’s pride holding him back, for he had never offered his surrender in such a way after Javert had beaten him.

No, it mattered. As Javert watched, unashamed, as Valjean drew the wet cloth over shifting stomach muscles thrown into hard relief by the early morning sun, he felt the familiar hunger rise up in him.

Having that power at his mercy was the most gratifying thing he had ever experienced. But what made Valjean’s surrender so satisfying was how hard-won it was. Valjean was too stubborn to yield easily. And when he would at last yield, even in this, he’d do it fully aware of what he was doing—and not simply because he was tired and aching after an encounter with Delrue.

After Javert had eaten breakfast, he pointed at the floor once more, and Valjean, who had been in the process of clearing his table, reluctantly put his plate back down and came closer, sinking to his knees in front of Javert.

“Let me see your head,” Javert said.

Although Valjean obeyed with obvious hesitation, he was no longer as panicked as he had been the day before. As Javert parted his short hair, his thumb tracing along an old scar, he found himself idly wondering what experiences had left a man of such brutal strength with such an aversion to having his head touched.

It was true, the barbers in the hulks were not gentle—but that could hardly be expected of them, having to shear thieves and murderers day after day, many of which would be glad to murder them, too, if it wasn’t for the chains on them.

Had there been a guard or two, perhaps, who’d found a weakness to exploit?

Unsettled, Javert realized that imagining one of the men he’d commanded a decade ago laying hands on Valjean made indignation rise up in him. To feel indignation at Delrue’s obvious disrespect for what was more or less Javert’s property, or at least a perk of his position, was one thing. But the guards in the hulks, illiterate scum that they were for the most part, had a job to do. Cuffing an obstinate convict around the head was a thing he’d observed without a second thought a thousand times. Valjean had been one of hundreds of men deserving way worse.

What had changed that made the very idea so upsetting now?

Javert forced himself to forget about the old scars and inspect the wound instead. It had scabbed over; there was no fresh blood to be seen. Dried blood still clung to Valjean’s hair, but Javert decided to leave it alone for now. The wound was small, in any case. Half a finger’s length of skin had split open at a glancing blow with the end of the cane that had most probably been meant for Valjean’s shoulder.

“Healing well.” He released Valjean, who moved his head out of reach with obvious relief. “You will behave today, won’t you?”

“Yes, sir,” Valjean said obediently—but then, he would have promised the same thing a day ago.

It did not matter; Delrue would not oversee the indentured servants today. Javert did not tell Valjean, for Valjean had no need to know how displeased Javert was with Delrue’s behavior. And Javert still expected all the indentured servants to follow the commands of his agents.

Regardless of Delrue’s behavior, it hadn’t been Valjean’s place to deal with Delrue—just as it hadn’t been Delrue’s place to deal with Valjean.

It was afternoon by the time Javert finally found time to order Delrue to come to the station-house. Gilbert kept an eye on the indentured servants today, who’d been sent to deal with the overgrowth of weeds and young trees that grew close to the ramparts. Javert meanwhile had found work for the other spies he employed, ensuring that when Delrue came by to report to him, they were alone.

“I heard there was a problem yesterday,” Javert said, seated behind his desk and studying Delrue, who stood before him.

Delrue seemed to be in a good mood, and Javert marveled once more at the man’s attitude. Did he truly believe that he had a right to assume Javert’s position? Not too long ago, Javert would have said that if Delrue continued to prove himself reliable, he might, as the years passed, eventually come to assume a position like Javert’s. Perhaps even in Montreuil, although Javert doubted that—the town was growing quickly, and within a decade, the position he now held might be prestigious enough that only a man with good connections might assume it. In the eyes of the citizens of Montreuil, Delrue would never be more than a mere police spy—unless he, like Javert, found a way to distinguish himself in the eyes of his superiors.

Was that what Delrue’s game was about? But surely the man was smarter than that. Javert had no influence in Paris—not yet. If Delrue hoped for a position in Paris, several years would pass before Javert could hope to be in a position himself where he might have such influence. Likewise, the town’s electors had not thought highly of Javert before he unmasked Jean Valjean. Even now, they respected him only begrudgingly. In their eyes, he would always be a stranger. He’d seen the way they’d watched him at first, after all.

“You wanted to see me?” Delrue said, then continue without waiting for Javert’s answer, “I know you’ll want to know what Valjean got up to yesterday. He’s a handful, isn’t he? Even when he was mayor, he didn’t dare to shout at me like that. But I don’t think he’ll do it again.”

“I did not see any report on yesterday’s events on my table this morning,” Javert said.

Delrue did not seem to notice his mood, for he laughed and shrugged. “Is that really necessary, sir? We all know he’s a convict. He acted up, we taught him a lesson, he’ll behave for a while until he tries it again.”

“You,“ Javert said. “You taught him a lesson. No we involved there. Isn’t that right?”

Delrue licked his lip, then nodded, some of his amusement fading away as he at last seemed to realize that Javert did not share his good mood. “Of course, sir. I can write that report for you now, if you want...”

There was another difference. Delrue was not a good writer and no great reader, but whereas Javert had realized as a child that his natural inclinations would not help him to overcome his background, Delrue had, perhaps, found it easier to make do with what he knew, instead of systematically forcing himself to focus on his weaknesses. If Delrue had indeed the ambitions Javert had assumed he had, would he not have invested additional effort to prove to Javert that he had the skills needed?

“It is no matter of want,” Javert said coldly. “You know that. I will have a report, in writing, to be filed with all the other reports, on my desk every morning. It makes no difference that it concerns one of the indentured servants.”

“Very well,” Delrue said. “I assume that’s all?”

“You assume wrong. And not for the first time this week. I suggest that you think very well before assuming again. I am willing to let you off with only a warning this time, but—”

“Is it about that Valjean, sir?” For a moment, Delrue looked outraged, as if it had not even occurred to him that Javert might take exception to his assumptions.

That explained part of it—it had not been a deliberate test of Javert’s limits then.

“The man shouted at me. The way he looked, he would have attacked at any moment. He’s just a convict—”

“He’s an indentured servant, and I am the chief of police of this town.” Javert stared at Delrue without moving, remaining silent until Delrue sullenly lowered his eyes. “You will not assume my duties until explicitly told so by myself. Am I clear?”

Delrue’s jaw moved. “Clear, sir,” he said at last.

“Good.” Javert made a dismissive gesture with his hand. “That’s all for today.”

Delrue nodded. “I am sorry I kept you from your duties, sir. I know you are very busy.”

His eyes were unreadable, but even so Javert thought he’d seen his lips quirk for a moment.

He might have imagined it, Javert told himself when Delrue turned and left. Surely the man cared too much about his work to endanger it in such a way.

Delrue had nothing to gain by opposing him—and over something as ridiculous as a convict! Still. He would have to keep an eye on Delrue. He could always fire him, of course—but then he’d be down his most reliable man. Gilbert was the only other man he fully trusted to do his job.

It would be a damn shame to have to get rid of him.

***

After a week of constant, drizzling rain, it seemed that the gray clouds had at last moved further inland. The sky was a glorious blue, the sun bright, and although the streets and narrow alleys of Montreuil were filled by white mist in the morning now, it seemed that they had been granted another period of good weather before winter would relentlessly approach.

It was a Sunday. Javert had idly contemplated spending an hour or two going over reports, but the week had been quiet, and with the weather like this, he did not expect any trouble in town—not until the late afternoon, at least, when men would gather in the taverns.

Instead, Javert pulled a book at random from the small collection on his shelf, barely giving the title a glimpse before he tucked it away in a pocket and stood. He felt strangely restless. Perhaps some exercise would do him good.

In the stable, he passed by Noiraude, who jealously turned her ears back and gave the wall of Doré’s box a kick when Javert stopped in front of the gelding. Javert frowned at her; in turn she pointedly turned away from him.

Shaking his head at the mare’s jealous antics, he opened the gelding’s box. Doré hadn’t received much exercise lately either. After Noiraude had been injured in the incident with the bull—an incident that could be blamed on the convict Jean Valjean, or so he had argued in his letter to the Prefecture—he had been given leave to make use of Valjean’s gelding instead.

He’d been fortunate; no doubt that decision was partly brought about by the high amount of interest Valjean’s case had caused in Paris. In addition to the chief inspector’s inertia, of course. To let Javert proceed with the horse as he had done was certain to cause Gisquet the least amount of work, after all, and in the eyes of his superiors, could be turned into a deserved reward for the agent who had unmasked Valjean.

No, Javert did not think he would find much active encouragement of his own career from that man—but neither would Gisquet’s lethargy pose an obstacle for him.

Javert had made certain to keep in contact with Rivette, exchanging a letter every now and then, and while Rivette was not the sort of man to speak badly of a superior, Javert had learned enough to feel confident that, once given a position in the Prefecture, he’d manage well enough. Gisquet might not be overjoyed to have a man of Javert’s background serve beneath him, but the chief inspector had little ambition of his own and would surely be relieved to have a loyal man he could depend upon.

Sooner or later, Gisquet would have his wish and find a less exciting government position—or even, if luck was on his side and his family connections could indeed support him that far, find himself rising to the prefect’s chair. In any case, such a rise would take Gisquet years, and Javert intended to be in a position where he might have a chance to take over the chief inspector’s chair himself.

Doré blew against his hand, pulling him from his thoughts. Javert stroked the proudly arched neck, fur glistening gold beneath his touch, then began to prepare the gelding for a ride.

The town was bustling, men and women walking in the sunshine. Javert lifted his hat when he encounter Mayor Regnier. 

Idly, he wondered what Valjean was up to. He’d sent him back to the barracks after Valjean had washed and dressed him in the morning. Valjean didn’t attend Mass, he knew that—Valjean had shame enough, at least, to try and avoid the eye of the public now.

Had he asked Valjean, he was sure that Valjean would have had some pious answer—praying, most likely, or perhaps spending this beautiful day alone in the barracks reading his Bible.

Javert chuckled to himself, then turned Doré onto the path that led along the Canche north, towards where it would eventually reach the ocean. He had no intention of riding that far; still, the day was beautiful and the horse needed exercise, and if Javert had to waste the afternoon reading, he could just as well search for a sunny spot by the river to do so.

The path stretched before him, Doré’s flaxen mane rippling in the wind. Between his thighs, Javert could feel the gelding’s strength. A fine horse indeed. Many years would pass before he’d be able to afford a horse like that on his own—and in Paris, of course, a man in his position would have no need for a horse bred to race across fields and forests. In Paris, in time, he’d have a carriage at his disposal.

He tightened his legs around the gelding’s warm body, Doré’s ears curiously tilting towards him as the gelding collected himself beneath him, muscular haunches coming far forward beneath his body to carry his weight.

Then Javert loosened his tight grip on the reins, and the horse darted forward like an arrow loosed from the bow. Doré was as fast as the wind, the golden body stretching beneath them as they thundered along the dusty path. Javert could hear no sound but that of the wind in his ears and Doré’s hooves on the road.

He’d come a long way since the stinking prison hulks of Toulon.

He smiled fiercely at that thought and nudged Doré’s sides in encouragement, and in turn the gelding snorted and stretched his powerful body further, impossibly increasing his speed until his mane fluttered in the wind like a standard of gold and the river to their right was nothing but a blur of blue.

When Doré finally slowed, Javert was as breathless as the horse. The gelding’s golden fur was dark with sweat, but even so he lifted his legs energetically, blowing air from his nostrils in exhausted satisfaction. The Canche was still flowing slowly on their right, the water mirroring the bright blue of the sky above. Not far ahead, a willow stood, its trailing branches touching the water.

Someone was sitting at the riverbank beneath the willow.

Doré’s ears perked up in recognition as he snorted a greeting, but Javert had recognized the man sitting there even before the horse had.

It was Jean Valjean, sitting in the shadow of the willow with a book in his lap. And by his side, there sat a woman.

“But he shall save the needy from the sword of their mouth, and the poor from the hand of the violent. There. Now you try.” Embarrassed, Valjean realized that there was dirt beneath the ragged line of his nail as he carefully traced along the next sentence.

Fantine leaned towards him, frowning at the Bible in his hand. They had not progressed very far yet—only a few weeks had passed since Valjean had first tentatively offered to teach her to read and write. She had been suspicious at first, but given how much she disliked having to depend on Javert to read her the innkeepers’ letters and to pen notes to Cosette for her, Valjean had to have appeared the lesser evil.

During the past weeks, they’d used what rare free moments they had. By now, Fantine was able to slowly make her way through a sentence at a time.

“And to the needy there shall be hope, but—” Fantine halted, trying to work out a more complex word.

“That one’s difficult,” Valjean said. “Try going letter by letter.”

Fantine pressed her lips together. “Will you do me a favor,” she said a moment later.

“If I can,” Valjean said cautiously. These days, there was not much left he could do for her, save for empty gestures like these. There had been a time when he could have done much more—and he’d squandered it.

“I want to write a letter. To Cosette.”

From a pocket, she produced a crumpled sheet of paper and the stump of a pencil. “No pen and ink, but it will suffice, won’t it? It’s from the hospital. Sister Simplice let me have it when we helped with the linens yesterday.”

“I didn’t think you’d stolen it,” Valjean said.

“She saw me stop for a moment to try and read the title of a book that was on her desk. I told her that you’re teaching me to read. You don’t mind, do you? Sister Simplice still treats me like I’m…” Fantine hesitated, then her mouth twisted bitterly. “She still treats me like an honest woman. She asked me about Cosette.”

“I don’t mind.”

“She is leaving, you know.” Fantine’s lips tightened. “Soon. Before the snow makes travel difficult. She’s going to a convent in Paris. She said that after what they’d done to you, and with the way the new mayor is running things… He’s not going to keep paying for those hospital beds you paid for.”

“No. I didn’t think he would,” Valjean said quietly, his eyes still on the Bible.

“You could have done as he did. Saved your money. Bought a fake passport. Sold the factory.”

“There are some things one cannot run from.” Valjean clenched his right hand, remembering the weight of the red-hot coin. “And I could have done more. I could have done so much more. You know that.”

“Yes,” she said simply. “Still. Those people in those hospital beds you paid for, they wouldn’t agree with me, would they?”

“I’m still a convict,” he told her. “I’ve done terrible things. Paying for a doctor and for a few teachers doesn’t change that.”

“Perhaps. But I, too, have met people who’ve done terrible things. People with more money than you had. None of them would’ve spent a single moment wondering about the amount of beds in their local hospital, or whether there was a schoolteacher visiting nearby villages.”

“Did they steal a coin from a small child?” he asked her bitterly, and in answer she laughed without joy.

“They took worse. They stole a small child’s future and a mother’s happiness when they left, just like that, with only a letter. It wasn’t even an apology, can you imagine? Merely a letter telling us that the meal was paid for, and that they had to return to their families, to marry. We were not the sort of woman one marries, of course. I should have known that. They warned me. But I didn’t think…”

Fantine broke off. A moment later, she rubbed furiously at her eyes. “The letter,” she said. “I want to write to Cosette.”

“Write,” Valjean said. “I will help you.”

The sentences were simple, Fantine’s letters still clumsy, but with Valjean’s help, they had a passable note in less than half an hour.

“She won’t be able to read it, of course,” Fantine said with a small smile, “but the innkeepers will read it to her. And just think, in a year’s time, when I have her with me, I will teach her to read and write just as you’ve taught me. She will learn things. She will have warm, clean clothes. She will never know again what it is like to be without a family. And when I finally have her with me again, I will tell her that it was you who taught me to write to her, and you who helped me here.”

Embarrassed, Valjean had to look away. “That isn’t necessary,” he said roughly. “It’s such a small thing—and you cannot forget that it was I who got you into trouble in the first place.”

“I should have told you about Cosette,” Fantine said, “right at the start. But I was scared of you. Men hadn’t given me a reason to trust them.”

“No.” Valjean looked down. “I know what that is like. And I know what it’s like to be afraid. That people will look at you, and that they will know. That’s why I should have—”

“Enough of that.” Fantine gave him a tentative nudge with her shoulder. “It’s rare enough Javert lets you out of his sight. I want to read more.”

It was at that moment, his fingers already tracing another line, that Valjean became aware of the sound of hooves on soft grass. When he looked up, his hands instinctively clenching around the Bible as he fought the instinct to hide it, he was not entirely surprised to find his former horse coming to a stand in front of him, the gelding’s golden coat now dark and flecked with foam as he stretched his neck in tired satisfaction, exhaling as he chewed contentedly on the bit.

When Valjean raised his eyes, he found that Javert’s face was unreadable.

Guilt rose in Valjean, but he fought it down. It was a Sunday, the only day of the week when he had a few precious hours to himself. Javert had no right to deny him his freedom this afternoon.

Of course, there was nothing keeping Javert from laying claim to Valjean’s hours even on a Sunday. Who would stop him? Valjean knew that he wouldn’t put up a fight, not with what was at stake.

“What’s going on here?” Javert asked with little preamble.

Valjean smiled wryly. It was just as he had thought.

“Nothing that concerns you.” Fantine scrambled to her feet, one hand protectively clutching the letter to her chest.

Immediately, Javert’s eyes narrowed.

Valjean wearily rose as well. “It’s Sunday. We have the afternoon to use as we see fit.”

There was a small smile on Javert’s face. “And you’re doing what exactly all the way out here—reading the Bible?”

Wordlessly, Valjean held out the tome. Javert took hold of it and flicked it open. Then he scoffed and handed it back to Valjean before he dismounted, handing Doré’s reins to Valjean.

“Look after him,” he said. “And you—show me what you have there. It’s a letter; I saw it clearly.”

Fantine’s lips were pressed together, her chin lifted and her eyes sparking with indignation.

Valjean hurriedly interfered before things could escalate. “Show him the letter, Fantine. I was teaching her to write, sir. That is all.”

“Is it,” Javert said derisively. “I will be the judge of that.”

He held out his hand again, and a moment later, Fantine reluctantly handed over the letter.

Relieved, Valjean turned back to the horse, loosening the girth and running up the stirrups before he let Doré step down to the river where the gelding eagerly began to drink.

When Valjean turned back to watch Javert, he saw that Javert’s brow was furrowed as he stared at the letter. “It’s a letter to the innkeepers?”

“To my daughter,” Fantine said obstinately, “Cosette.”

Javert turned the letter around, but when he could find no incriminating evidence, he returned it to her.

“Will that be all then? Sir?” Fantine demanded.

The gelding still had his nose in the stream, drinking deeply.

“You worked him hard, sir,” Valjean said in the hope of distracting Javert from Fantine. “He’s wet with sweat. Shall I rub him down for you?”

“It’s Sunday.” Fantine sounded as if she was just barely holding back anger. “He has no right to your time!”

In response, Javert smiled again. “He’s offering, isn’t he? If that’s how he wants to spend his Sunday, it’s his choice. Just like teaching you to read the Bible.” Javert’s lips twisted again to show what he thought of that excuse.

Doré pulled up, snorting in deep satisfaction. Drops of water hit Valjean’s trousers as the gelding shook his head, his tack jingling.

“It’s not right, and you know it,” Fantine said. “Can you not leave him alone for an hour or two on a Sunday? And we’ve done nothing wrong. You have no right—”

“Oh, don’t act so upset,” Javert said. “A pretty woman with a child and no husband who sold herself into indenture—you lost the right to be outraged long ago. You’re only one step up from a woman of the town, and you know it.”

Stung, Fantine took a step back, although she was still glaring at Javert.

“And you know that you have no right to be upset—it’s not against any law that a woman like me shouldn’t learn how to write letters to her own child. And Valjean has a right to his Sunday, just as I do. Or is there some other reason you don’t like to see him here?” Fantine threw her head back as she gave Javert a challenging look, eyes still glaring and color high in her cheeks. “Surely a man like you has no reason to be jealous of a woman like me, Inspector?”

“That’s enough, Fantine,” Valjean said as he came hastily forward, releasing his hold on the gelding’s reins—but it was too late.

“Don’t get me wrong,” Javert said as he stared at Fantine, a derisive smile on his face. “I know that man. Much better than you do. You’ve only known him as the pious Mayor Madeleine; I’ve seen him sweating in the prison hulks. No, I’m not worried at all about what he might do with a pretty woman like you—not Valjean.”

Javert laughed as if the mere idea amused him, and Valjean felt a hot rush of shame as he remembered that first night he’d gone to Javert’s bed—quite willingly.

“But I am concerned if he starts sending out letters,” Javert continued. “He’s escaped the hulks four times, after all. But he won’t escape again. Not with me here to make certain he doesn’t get any ideas.”

“You know I won’t,” Valjean said, moving in between Fantine and Javert. “You know why.”

Javert gave him a considering look. “I do,” he murmured, then looked from Valjean to Fantine and back. “Still. I am keeping an eye on you. Don’t think you can do anything without my notice. I’m watching you.”

Valjean swallowed down his shame and his helpless fury, still painfully aware of Fantine behind him—Fantine, who had annoyed Javert enough that it might not be Valjean serving Javert his dinner tonight…

Valjean boldly met Javert’s eyes. “Do you want me to return with you then? If you want me to, I will. You know I will.”

Javert exhaled, then raised the hand that held the riding crop. Valjean shivered as Javert gently tapped his chest with it, holding still as Javert slowly dragged it down to his stomach.

“So well-behaved now.” Javert’s smile widened. “Is it because of her? No… I’ve seen you act up with her around.”

Valjean held Javert’s gaze for a long moment. The tip of the crop was still resting against his stomach. Had Fantine not been here, maybe Javert would have let it trail lower, would have allowed it to press against the flap of Valjean’s trousers where even now something was twisting low in his stomach, a sharp spike of something that surely couldn’t be arousal.

Perhaps it was merely a resigned expectation—his body had come to know what to expect from encounters with Javert, after all.

“Don’t feel too safe out here,” Javert said softly when he finally lowered his arm. “I have my eyes on you, no matter where you go.”

Chastened, Valjean averted his eyes. Something had changed in the way they faced each other. Javert was no longer angry—if he had indeed been angry. Even his suspicion had melted away, giving way to something Valjean knew very well. Had they been alone, he did not doubt that Javert might have pushed him against the tree now. Or perhaps the crop would have lingered, pressing in between his legs until his body began to respond the way it always seemed to in the end.

“Will you require my presence this evening then, sir?” Valjean said carefully. Javert’s boots would certainly be in need of a polish after the ride, his coat and trousers in need of a brush.

And there would be other services Javert would require, Valjean did not doubt that. Not with Javert standing so close that he could smell the scent of his soap and hear the way his breath came just a little too fast.

“I will,” Javert said eventually. “You’ll serve my dinner, and I’ll make certain you don’t cause any trouble this evening.”

The crop came up again to give him another tap on the chest to underline Javert’s words. Valjean found himself nodding, glad to have an excuse to turn away before either Javert or Fantine could see the heat that had risen to his face. He tightened Doré’s girth without speaking and held the stirrup for Javert, and when Javert at last turned the gelding away from them, he hastily knelt down by the side of the river to wash the gelding’s sweat from his hands, using the chance to pour cold water over his heated face.

It could have gone worse. It wouldn’t be Fantine in Javert’s apartment tonight. That was a victory of a sort.

All the same, his own reaction to Javert troubled him. Perhaps it was no wonder that Javert had so easily believed that Valjean had come to his bed willingly—eagerly, even. And what excuse did Valjean have when even in the prison hulks, among men who suffered just as he did, his blood had never stirred in such a way?

Javert was in a good mood. He was seated in his chair by the stove, legs stretched out in front of him, a glass of wine by his side and an open book in his lap which he had not even pretended to glance at for long minutes. It was warm by the fire while outside, rain had begun to fall once more not long after the sun had set.

It was gratifying to listen to the sound of the rain coming down onto the roof above them while they were safe and warm inside. Still, this shared comfort was not the source of Javert’s good mood.

Valjean had settled down on the floor near the stove as well, and there he had patiently brushed the gelding’s golden hair together with dried dirt and dust from Javert’s coat and his trousers, no doubt aware of the weight of Javert’s gaze on him.

At first, Javert had indeed been reading, although his eyes had returned to the kneeling figure of Valjean again and again, lingering longer each time. When Valjean dared to look up every now and then, Javert had given him a small smile as he watched him at work.

Often, such attention seemed to unsettle Valjean. But for once, there was no sense of unease Javert could make out, even though Valjean’s Sunday had come to an end and would be followed by another week where his days and his nights were fully at Javert’s disposal. Still, it could not be so bad to end the day on Javert’s floor, with Javert’s dusty coat spread across his lap. The work was easy, after all—and surely there was satisfaction to be had from such honest work and the progress he was making.

The next time Valjean looked up and found Javert openly watching, he held his gaze for a moment. Javert’s smile widened a little, but he did not speak. Valjean, in turn, appeared neither angry nor showing the slightest hint of his customary moodiness. Instead, he seemed pensive as he gazed at Javert before he returned to his work again.

Javert sipped his wine, savoring the richness of fruit on his tongue. With the warmth of the fire and the pleasing view before him, it was easy to start to wonder whether it was right to pursue a career in Paris. For a man of his background, what he had here was nothing to scoff at. He had a position of authority, good food and wine, a fine horse, an apartment that felt spacious to one who had come from the cramped barracks of Toulon—and he had Jean Valjean at his beck and call.

Truly, that amenity would be hardest to leave behind.

Javert allowed his eyes to linger on the tempting curve of the bent neck and broad shoulders, the powerful body clothed only by a soft, worn shirt of white linen. Valjean had spread a rag over his lap before he had begun to clean and polish the leather of Javert’s boots. When he looked up again, Javert moistened his lips, contemplating the face before him: the wide mouth was relaxed this evening, the brows drawn together a little as Valjean watched him without speaking, offering a glimpse of his chest where his shirt opened.

It was a very different vision to the man he had been, even though Madeleine as well had seemed to prefer the clothes of a workingman.

“Well?” Javert said long minutes later when Valjean continued to gaze at him thoughtfully, his work forgotten in his lap. “Speak up. You look as if you have something to say.”

Valjean inclined his head. “I was merely thinking that you and I… we are not so different.”

“I recall telling you so, several years ago. Although I also recall you were in chains at the time.” The memory made Javert’s lips twitch in amusement.

“But you also admitted that you were wrong about me then. Never mind,” Valjean said when Javert raised a brow at him. “That is not what I meant.”

“Then what do you mean?”

The rain was continuing to drum against the windows, the fire in the stove giving off a pleasant warmth. Javert was feeling too contended to let Valjean spoil his mood.

“For you to want me here, like this.... Surely in some way it means that you know that I’m no danger to you. There are no chains on me here.”

“You’d be a greater fool than even I think possible to want to escape—now, when you know very well that what you have here is an easy life compared to how they’d work you back in the hulks. And then, you are already a recidivist. For you to try and flee now, it might not go so well for you when they catch you again...”

Valjean looked as if he wasn’t satisfied with that answer. That was the old stubbornness: he could never let something rest. “You told me yourself: you wouldn’t want an animal in your bed. That I do understand. But then why treat me like one?”

“You are in a very chatty mood today.” Javert laughed softly and shook his head as he contemplated Valjean.

“Do you want me to be silent, sir?” Valjean asked. There was none of the usual flare of his temper in it; it seemed that he was genuinely curious.

For whatever reason, Javert could not find it in himself to say yes, though that was surely what it should be like to see Valjean finally beaten into obedience: he’d be quiet and obedient, with no more sullen glances.

But it was early yet and Javert was comfortable in his seat by the fire, and the book on his lap could not hold his attention as well as the pleasing sight of Valjean on his knees, bent over his work.

“No,” Javert allowed. “As long as this isn’t another ploy to annoy me.”

“I rarely intend to annoy you,” Valjean said wryly. “Although I will admit it keeps happening. Still... Thank you.”“

“What for?” Javert was beginning to feel curious about the cause of this mood.

Valjean’s brows drew together again as though he was surprised as he glanced at Javert. “For this,” he said, nodding vaguely at the room. “It’s a welcome reminder that I am human, just like you—no more, no less.”

Javert felt a small smile tug on his lips, but he did not deny the truth of what Valjean said. For all that Valjean’s moods were as frustrating to wrestle with as the moods of an ill-trained stallion, much of what made Valjean’s surrender so pleasant was the strength of Valjean’s will, the sharp mind, human willfulness paired with animal strength.

After a moment, Valjean took up the rag once more, rubbing grease into the leather until it gleamed. “There is a lesson to be learned from this, perhaps,” he murmured, head bent. “After I left Digne... I could have lived like this. A simple, quiet life. A small farm with a field to work by myself, or perhaps... Perhaps there might have been a monastery somewhere. A place of silence where I would have hurt no one—although to enter such a place under a false name is surely a graver sin than any I have committed thus far.”

Javert couldn’t hold back a small sound of amusement. “Is that still what you think? It is what you want to believe of yourself, perhaps—but in truth, you’re just as ambitious as I am. You went from convict to magistrate. No, we are not so different at all—save that from youngest childhood on, I’ve learned that there is only a very narrow road for me to walk if I don’t want to end up with the likes of you.”

“No,” Valjean said, quiet but firm. “That’s where you are wrong. That’s where we are different. I have never been ambitious. I’ve never wanted...” He hesitated, then shrugged and gestured to the window and the town that laid beyond. “I never wanted any of that. I wanted an honest, quiet life; I wanted hard work and a chance to make things right. I never wanted to be the mayor of this town; I never dreamed of owning a factory.”

“And yet that is just what you did.”

“I thought it would be...” Valjean fell silent, his eyes returning to Javert to watch him, a little warily, and a little resigned, as though he already knew that nothing he said would convince Javert of what tale he was going to spin. “Atonement,” he finally said with a sigh. “A chance to do good. To perhaps make up for the evil I’ve done. But it’s not that easy. It is a simple thing, to hire a schoolteacher, to pay for a hospital bed. But then there was Fantine, and I....”

“You fired her. You, a convict, a recidivist, fired her for being a dishonest woman.” Javert felt another smile tug on his lips. In truth, it was hard to understand why Valjean was still so broken up about that—why would an elector have a woman like her work in his factory? No good things came from mingling with women like that; who knew what might have become of the other women employed alongside her, or how she might have tempted the men employed there!

Valjean bowed his head. “I did,” he admitted quietly. “And I am paying for it now.”

“You are paying for your crimes, Jean Valjean, which include the theft of a forty sous coin.” Javert was beginning to feel impatient. Hadn’t he heard all of this before? “Who cares what went on with that woman? Although I have to admit I am surprised. For so many weeks she looked as if she wanted to scratch your eyes out, yet look at her now! There she was, that feisty thing, glaring at me—trying to protect you. You have a knack for befriending people, don’t you? First Robert, now Fantine. But Robert changed his tune, now that there is a new mayor, and Fantine... Well, I need not tell you what comes from the company of women like her.”

Stung, Valjean straightened at last. “I certainly don’t intend—you need not fear that I would, that I could—”

Javert laughed again. “No,” he said, quietly pleased. “You could not, could you? I know your tastes well, and they do not run to pretty women at all.”

There was a sudden heat coloring Valjean’s cheeks, and he averted his eyes. Still, he didn’t protest, and that was pleasing enough.

Perhaps there had been enough truth between them for the evening.

“Come here,” Javert said. “Leave that be.”

Again Valjean looked up with a familiar wariness, then put the boots and the stained rag aside before he rose to his feet and approached Javert. When Javert pointed at the floor, he sank to his knees without a word, his brow still creased. 

Javert reached out and grasped Valjean’s chin, turning it so that the light of the lamp fully illuminated his features. Valjean’s eyes were dark, although the set of his mouth and the way his brows had drawn together again betrayed the caution that always seemed to be a part of him, despite the fact that he let Javert handle him as he pleased.

Slowly, Javert drew his thumb along Valjean’s bottom lip, think of the man he’d been, the mayor sitting safe behind his desk as he sought to lecture Javert about compassion, about goodness, about wickedness.

Even now, the thought of what he’d been brought a smile to Javert’s lips.

“No, you’re not an animal at all. There’s cunning in you. Even an awareness of your crimes. It’s rare for a criminal, but after all it’s not unheard of. It would be refreshing, at least, to not hear excuses day after day. They all have excuses.” Javert’s finger traced down from Valjean’s creased brow to the worried mouth. “Still. There’s that vile temper of yours. And as much as I’d like to believe you, we both know it’s going to flare up again. But you can be good if you want to be. Eventually you’ll tire of that struggle.”

Javert returned to touch Valjean’s mouth, brushing against lips that were warm and inviting. He slipped a finger into his mouth, and Valjean allowed that too without protest, although heat immediately returned to his cheeks.

It had been a long time since Javert had felt the heat of a mouth wrapped around his cock. Back then, it had been a luxury—and a man like Javert, only newly a guard, could not afford luxuries. Even less could he afford to mingle with the sort of people drawn to places where men could buy such favors. In truth, he had not missed it much in the years since; his own hand had been adequate when the mood struck him.

But there was a difference between paying a woman of the town known to all the guards—and probably all the thieves of Toulon as well—and making use of a privilege that was his by right as the Chief of Police of this town. One was a luxury, the other a benefit of his position.

Hesitantly, Valjean’s tongue touched the pad of his finger, hot and velvet-soft despite the man’s tendency to use it for sharp words. A moment later, Valjean’s mouth tightened around his finger, and Javert found that his trousers grew tight at the same time, his cock hardening at the sight and the sensation of what pleasures the man’s unruly mouth could bestow, if it so chose.

Once more he wondered whether he had been wrong to leave Valjean a choice.

But then, it had not been unpleasant at all to see Valjean struggle with the unavoidable truth of his coming surrender. Whether Valjean wanted to admit it to himself or not, he would give in. That proud neck would bend under Javert’s yoke—and the soft mouth that had spoken harsh words and so many lies would finally be put to a better use.

It would be worth the wait when it happened, although even Javert had to admit at this point that the wait had become a painful one.

To distract himself from that sobering truth, he slipped a hand into his pocket where he still kept the small tin of sugared treats he had acquired in Paris. He pulled his finger free from Valjean’s mouth, then took hold of one of the sugared violets. When he offered it to Valjean, he seemed to struggle for a moment at the sight before he finally closed his eyes and leaned forward, taking it from Javert’s hand with a small exhalation of warm air.

“Take off your shirt.”

There was the customary heartbeat of hesitation before Valjean’s hands went to his shirt and he calmly drew it off, taking the time to fold it before he placed it on the floor. This time, he raised his eyes again to gaze at Javert, but for all his bravado, there was something sensitive in the lines around his mouth.

How strange, truly, that a man like Jean Valjean should mind this so much. But then, he never seemed to mind much once they ended up in Javert’s bed...

The thought made Javert smile even as his trousers grew even tighter at the splendor of the body before him.

Valjean had been a sight in the prison hulks, chained and defiant, all bulging muscle and skin gleaming with sweat. Now, tamed and sitting calmly at Javert’s feet, he had lost nothing of his allure. That same potent masculinity was still making Javert’s blood run hot with the thrill of knowing it at his mercy. All that strength, subdued by him. The brutal power of Valjean’s body was at his command—his to touch, to handle however he liked, and Valjean would willingly give himself up to it.

Javert moistened his lips, then reached out, running a hand slowly down Valjean’s chest. Beneath his touch he could feel Valjean’s heartbeat quicken, muscles flexing beneath the warm skin. He traced the hard plane of Valjean’s pectorals, ran his hand down to feel the muscles of his stomach flex involuntarily at his touch, then traced a path back up to where Valjean’s nipples had already tightened in anticipation.

Javert raised his hand and licked at a fingertip, then reached back out. Valjean stiffened, his eyes falling shut as Javert’s finger grazed his nipple, painting wetness all over it as he circled it. A remnant of the old stubbornness made Valjean’s teeth dig into his bottom lip to deny Javert the sound that so clearly wanted to escape, but Valjean couldn’t hide the way his back was arching, his breath coming faster as Javert’s finger continued to tease the small nub.

“Open your trousers,” Javert demanded hoarsely.

Valjean shivered but obeyed, his eyes remaining closed as his fingers hastily undid the buttons of his trouser flap.

Javert exhaled in gratification to find Valjean hard as well, his cock pushing up demandingly from beneath the shirt tails that still covered him. Javert licked his lips again, then reached down to draw the shirt aside. Valjean shuddered but did not protest, and when Javert trailed his fingertips up the inside of Valjean’s thigh, his cock jerked, begging for a touch the way Valjean was still too stubborn too.

But then, there was no reason to make Valjean beg—not when soon enough, his pride would melt away all on its own and he’d meet Javert eagerly, although he’d never speak the words aloud. Not yet, at least.

“Come on,” Javert murmured, nodding towards the bed when Valjean opened his eyes.

Valjean swallowed heavily, then inclined his head before he stumbled to his feet, the way his body had flushed with desire more than making up for the lack of grace.

For all that he had been so pensive earlier, Valjean was eager enough once they were in bed. He positioned himself on his hands and knees without being asked while Javert poured some of the lamp oil into his palm and then idly massaged his aching shaft while he contemplated the vision Valjean made.

“Not like that,” he said at last, once he’d looked his fill of that magnificent backside. “Lie down. On your side.”

The earlier teasing had given him an appetite for feeling that imposing body surrender to his embrace. When Valjean was at last positioned to his like, Javert held himself with one hand, holding up Valjean’s thigh with the other as he pushed against his hole. Valjean groaned as his body swallowed him eagerly, and once he was fully inside, Javert released his leg, watching as Valjean arched against him, his fingers already helplessly clenching around the sheets as Javert sank in deeper.

“That’s how I like you,” Javert murmured against damp skin, the muscles of Valjean’s back shifting beneath his touch as Valjean groaned again.

Javert wrapped his arm around him, pressing himself close, his mouth trailing a wet path up Valjean’s neck.

This was what he’d wanted. There was nothing more intoxicating than the sensation of all that strength in his arms, powerful muscles trembling as Javert mastered him with stroke after stroke.

Javert tried to draw it out for as long as he could, forcing himself to go slowly—and there was a deep satisfaction in that too. Every thrust dragged a groan from Valjean’s throat. He seemed to have forgotten all about his sullenness, his body hot and flushed with heat in Javert’s arms, trembling every time Javert pushed in.

There were words on Javert’s tongue—he wanted to tell Valjean how much he loved it how Valjean loved his cock, and perhaps that would have forced a protesting moan from Valjean—but Javert, too, was overwhelmed. His eyes closed as his thrusts inevitably began to speed up, Valjean’s sweat filling his mouth as he sucked on his throat, there where his pulse was racing against Javert’s tongue.

Even now, Valjean’s body took him eagerly, his hole tightening at each punishing thrust as if to draw him in even deeper. When Javert reached down to feel Valjean’s need for himself, he was vindicated to encounter Valjean’s hand wrapped tightly around his own cock, wringing pleasure from himself as he gave himself up to Javert’s mastery.

Valjean’s release spilled over both of their hands only moments before Javert found his release, his thrusts losing all rhythm as his hips jerked against Valjean, teeth digging into the skin of Valjean’s throat.

For long moments, all Javert could hear was the racing of his own heart, his pulse as loud as thunder in his ears. At last, when he could breathe again, he found himself still pressed against Valjean, Valjean’s own chest still rising and falling rapidly.

Contentedly, Javert sighed against Valjean’s nape, his lips searching out the spot where his teeth had grazed the skin earlier. He tasted the bruise with his tongue, the warm salt of Valjean’s skin filling his mouth. Valjean shuddered tiredly in his arms but didn’t stir further.

Rain was still falling heavily outside. The wind had picked up as well. Javert could hear it howling around the chimney, the shutters rattling while rain continued to drum against the roof above.

The room was warm, but even so the night promised to be cold. He would have to remember to add more wood to the fire for the night, he thought, even as his limbs began to grow heavy and his eyes fell shut.

Warmth surrounded Valjean. The dream from which he had woken must have been pleasant, even though he did not remember much of it now. Still, parts of it lingered, holding him in a warm embrace. The sensation was so pleasant that for long moments, he allowed himself to drift, enjoying the heat against his skin, the softness of the ground on which he was resting, his body relaxed and comfortable.

Long minutes passed before he began to realize that the heat against his nape was warm breath, and that the comforting sensation was in truth the weight of an arm slung around his chest, a body resting against his.

Disoriented, Valjean opened his eyes. He found himself not on the floor, where he had awoken these past months, but resting on a bed. The room was familiar; it was merely the soft mattress beneath him that was disconcerting, for the earliest rays of the morning sun were already lifting the gloom from Javert’s bedroom.

It was morning, and he was resting in Javert’s bed.

How had he come to be here? Valjean racked his mind, but he couldn’t remember having come to such a momentous decision during the past evening. He remembered the sensation of Javert’s skin against his, the shame and the pleasure of surrendering to Javert. He remembered the exhaustion afterward as they had rested together in a tangle of limbs, his heart racing and his body aching, yet filled with a deep, weary satisfaction.

And then? He seemed to simply have fallen asleep. Could it truly be that easy?

Carefully, Valjean turned, Javert’s arm still wrapped around him.

It was not yet too late. Javert was still asleep.

If Javert had fallen asleep at the same time as Valjean had, it was entirely possible he had not realized yet what had come to pass. If Valjean could manage to extricate himself from Javert’s arms, there was still a way out. He could slip out of the bed and curl up in his accustomed place at the foot of Javert’s bed. And when Javert woke, he would never know that Valjean had not spent the night on the floor like any other night before.

Warily, Valjean studied Javert’s face. Was he perhaps only pretending to be asleep, waiting for Valjean to try and slip away? Or perhaps he was not that cruel; perhaps he was merely waiting to see what Valjean would do.

Javert’s eyes were closed, the lines of his face relaxed. His mouth was slightly open, his eyelashes resting against his skin, his brow smooth. He was naked beneath the blanket that covered them, as was Valjean—but for once, there appeared to be nothing threatening in his nudity.

Asleep, they truly were alike. Valjean felt that certainty even more strongly now than during the preceding evening. Whatever Javert might want to pretend, whatever roles he liked them to act out, in the end, before God—and here in this quiet chamber, removed from the world—they were merely two men. Javert’s soul was no more nor less precious than his own.

He could not hate Javert. He did not think that Javert even truly hated him. With sleep softening his features, it seemed impossible that Javert should not be able to see what Valjean had learned.

Outside, a bird began to sing. The light was slowly growing brighter. Valjean watched as the rectangle of light slowly began its journey across the floor. Not long now before it would reach his accustomed spot on the floor. Javert might wake at any moment.

If he wanted to leave, it had to be now if he wanted to have any chance of pretending that this night had never happened.

Instead, he found himself still gazing at Javert, torn between the instinctual need to flee—to rebel in the only way open to him to protect what small part of himself was still his own—and the tempting warmth of Javert’s embrace.

Was it truly so impossible that Javert might not open his eyes and see him—truly see him for who he was? A man worse than many, it was true, but still a man, and one who had tried hard to do good. Surely for Javert to want him here, in his bed, resting against him at night, it was impossible that Javert should see him as nothing more than an object to use, a wild beast to put to work.

No, as harsh as Javert could be, asleep there was a softness on his face that was undeniable. Surely if Javert were to open his eyes now, he would see what Valjean saw—that they were two men, two souls in need of compassion, and that was all they were.

The sunlight had continued to wander across the room while he had been lost in contemplation of Javert’s face. It had reached Javert’s pillow now, Valjean saw with sudden shock. Within minutes, it would shine on Javert, who was certain to wake. If Valjean wanted to escape, he had mere minutes to act.

Instead, Valjean kept gazing at Javert, entranced by the way the sunlight only added to the unsettling vision of Javert at rest. All harshness and cruelty was gone from his face, the golden light giving him an aura of serenity.

The sunlight had reached his cheek, and a sigh escaped Javert. Valjean could feel the rhythm of his breathing change—and then, a smile tugged at Javert’s lips, his mouth curving. There was something strangely lovely about the sight, for there was no mockery in it for once.

Could there not be peace between them?

Valjean gazed at Javert’s face, watching as the minutes ticked away.

Even if it was impossible, there would still be relief in giving himself up. Javert had been right in that, at least—the constant struggle against Javert’s harsh rules was tiring. If Valjean gave that up as well, if he surrendered that final part of himself, perhaps there would be peace. Javert would at last have all that he had demanded, and maybe then, the year until Fantine was free would pass quickly and quietly.

What use had a man like Valjean for pride, anyway? It was pride that had brought him here, after all—pride in his own goodness that had made him fire Fantine.

Javert made another sound. The sun was now shining directly onto his face.

Valjean closed his eyes, his decision made for him. He sank back down, his head resting on Javert’s pillow as he waited for what was to come.

He did not have to wait for long.

Javert shifted against him, then stretched, his arm rising, then settling back into place around Valjean’s waist, tightening possessively.

“Well, what’s that?” Javert said, his voice still rough with sleep. “A very good morning to you. I have to admit, that’s not a sight I expected to see this morning.”

Warily, Valjean opened his eyes and found himself face to face with Javert, so close that it would take no effort at all to lean in and kiss him.

Javert’s face was still relaxed, a smile playing on his lips—but this smile, Valjean knew, was not the product of innocent dreams.

“So you decided you would rather spend the night in my bed? No wonder—it’s cold. The fire went out during the night.” Javert’s brow creased, then he laughed softly. “Never mind. I did not feel the cold. You’ve kept me warm tonight.”

Beneath the heavy woolen blanket, his hand slid familiarly along Valjean’s flank, then curved around his buttocks. Valjean allowed all of this, waiting for what he knew was to come.

“You do remember what I told you though, don’t you?” Javert said. “How I expect to be woken, if you expect to continue to share my bed?”

Valjean nodded wordlessly, not trusting himself to speak.

“Well? Then why was I woken by the sun instead?”

There was no rancor in Javert’s voice. Valjean did not doubt even for a moment that Javert would let him escape his bed unscathed, now that Valjean had at last given in, but at least there was no gloating in Javert, no additional cruelty. He still seemed utterly at ease with the situation, content to linger here in bed with Valjean resting against him.

Valjean considered for a moment, but what use was there in lying? Javert would find out about his lack of skills soon enough. “I don’t know how,” he said.

Javert laughed, amused. “That’s not true. Nineteen years in Toulon, Valjean. You know how it works.”

Valjean considered again, then inclined his head in assent. “I’ve never done it,” he admitted. “Sir.”

Javert’s hand came up to cradle his head almost tenderly, his thumb smoothing in approval along the curve of his skull when Valjean did not flinch at the touch.

“Then you’ll learn. If you can teach that tongue to speak like a magistrate, you can teach it more pleasant things.”

It wasn’t a question, and so Valjean nodded again. “Yes, sir.”

Javert’s hand slid down to his shoulder, then gave him a gentle shove. “Go on. Take your time. Mind that you be careful with your teeth—I can be patient, but I’m no fool, Valjean. I expect you to do your best.”

Valjean felt heat rush to his face, but he sat up regardless, the blanket falling away from his body. The air was cold—but even so he didn’t get up to start another fire. It was too late to delay at this point.

Javert watched him intently. He pushed the blanket aside, and Valjean had to swallow when he found himself faced with Javert’s naked body, now fully illuminated by the sunlight so that every small detail was visible, from the lean muscles of his stomach to the dark hair between his thighs.

At the center of the patch of wiry hair, Javert’s cock had begun to stir. He was half hard already. Valjean moved to hesitantly crouch by his feet and Javert spread his legs, his cock hardening further.

“Take it in your mouth.”

Valjean leaned over Javert, hesitating for another moment. Then he bent forward, parting his lips, and tentatively drew the tip of Javert’s cock into his mouth.

Javert moaned in satisfaction. His hand came up to curve around Valjean’s head again, and Valjean drew Javert in deeper before he could change his mind.

It wasn’t as distasteful as Valjean had thought it would be. Javert was warm—that was the first thing he noted, the heat of him against his tongue. He was large enough that Valjean had to open his mouth wide—that was different to the finger or two Javert would slide into his mouth sometimes. His skin tasted faintly of salt, and Valjean’s nose was filled with the scent of Javert’s arousal.

Tentatively, he pressed his tongue to the head of Javert’s cock, and Javert made an appreciative sound in return.

“Good,” Javert said. He sounded a little breathless, and when Valjean raised his eyes, he could see that Javert’s eyes were closed, his mouth parted.

Javert was enjoying himself.

Valjean didn’t feel as bitter as he had assumed he would—Javert had not been cruel about it at all, and surely, if it had to happen, it was best to happen like this. On his own terms, by his own choice, with Javert, for once, silenced by pleasure.

That made it easier—to pretend that it was merely a thing he did because it gave Javert pleasure, and not because it also gave Javert pleasure to see him degraded.

Again Valjean glanced up. Javert had sunk back into his pillows, his chest gleaming with a light sheen of sweat, his mouth relaxed. One of his hands had come to rest on his chest, lightly stroking himself. The sight was strangely reassuring. Javert was enjoying himself, and that was all it was.

Javert had hardened further in his mouth, and Valjean slowly tried to take him deeper. It seemed impossible—Javert was too large, and he had to come up for breath after a moment, allowing Javert to slip from his mouth. The crown of Javert’s cock was gleaming, slick with his saliva, and when Valjean leaned in and slowly ran his tongue around it, Javert moaned again. Valjean could see the muscles of Javert’s stomach flex, his breath coming quickly now, his cock pushing up demandingly against Valjean’s lips.

“You’re enjoying this?” Valjean asked, even more unsettled by the roughness of his own voice.

Javert looked at him from heavy-lidded eyes, a hoarse laugh escaping him—although even now, there was little of the gloating satisfaction in it that Valjean had feared.

“Yes, Valjean,” he said, so breathless that Valjean didn’t even mind the way Javert rolled his eyes at him. “I’m enjoying myself.”

Flushing for no reason, Valjean ducked his head. He licked his lips, then let Javert’s cock slide into his mouth once more. The sensation of him filling his mouth was still strange, although the weight of Javert on his tongue was now familiar. The taste of his arousal was more pronounced this time, a deep, earthy taste. After taking a deep breath, Valjean forced himself to take Javert deeper into his mouth.

There was a limit to how far he could go—once, too daring, he took Javert too deep, and the unexpected brush of Javert’s cock against the back of his throat made him choke and hastily pull back, coughing while Javert’s fingers trailed through his shorn hair. When he next bent to his task once more, he was more careful. Javert, in turn, truly seemed satisfied to let him proceed at his own pace. His hand remained on Valjean’s head, but it made no motion to force him down, and when Valjean carefully trailed his tongue around the head of Javert’s cock, drawing him in just enough to suck on the tip without danger of choking, Javert made another breathless, encouraging sound.

His hand tightened around Valjean’s head, the muscles of his thighs tensing as his hips came up. It was the only warning Valjean received before Javert groaned and spilled himself in Valjean’s mouth.

Shocked, Valjean held still for that, too. Bitter salt pooled in his mouth as Javert’s pleasure came in spurt after spurt, his cock feeling strangely alive as it throbbed against Valjean’s tongue. Javert was panting now, his hand tracing Valjean’s cheek, and when Valjean looked up, his mouth still stretched around Javert, he found that Javert was watching him again, his eyes dark and satisfied.

“Don’t swallow,” Javert said softly when Valjean began to draw back. “Keep it in your mouth.”

Heat rushed to Valjean’s face as he realized what Javert wanted, but even so he obeyed, Javert’s softening cock slipping from his mouth as Valjean straightened. Javert’s release was warm in his mouth, his tongue coated with the bitter earthiness of it, and even after all Javert had already taken from him, that sensation was so shocking that Valjean dared not breathe.

After a moment, Javert sat up against the pillows with a sigh of satisfaction and reached out to touch Valjean’s lips with his finger. “Good. That was very good.”

He slipped a finger into Valjean’s mouth, then added a second. Lightly, he pressed down onto Valjean’s tongue, and Valjean allowed his mouth to open, letting Javert look his fill while Valjean’s heart continued to race.

“Good,” Javert said softly. He trailed his fingertip through the pool of come on Valjean’s tongue, then withdrew, wiping his finger against Valjean’s lips. “Now swallow.”

Valjean’s heart was racing in his chest. Something twisted in his stomach again—he wanted to believe that it was shame, but at the same time, his body had hardened as well during what he’d done for Javert, and even now his arousal was aching for attention.

When he swallowed, Javert drew in a deep breath, reaching out again to touch his lips. Valjean shivered, his cock throbbing with need when Javert slid his finger into his mouth before withdrawing it again.

“There. Was that really worth all the months of stubbornness?” Still smiling, Javert pressed his lips to Valjean’s.

A shocked moan escaped Valjean when Javert’s tongue slid into his mouth—and then, with the certainty of a man who’d never doubted what he would find, Javert’s hand slid between Valjean’s thighs. Lightly, Javert grasped Valjean’s arousal, stroking him until Valjean found a sudden, shocking release that left him trembling and overwhelmed. And even now, his mouth remembered the weight of Javert on his tongue, his mind tormenting him with a memory of the way Javert had looked, all harshness smoothed away by pleasure.

The events of the morning had left Javert in a particularly good mood which his men were too well-trained to comment on. As he sat at his desk, looking through another file of notes soon to be sent to the Prefecture, it was difficult to get the image of Valjean out of his mind. 

Perhaps now that Valjean had surrendered as he had always known he would, things would be easier.

Or perhaps one good morning meant nothing; maybe Valjean had already grown skittish once more and this evening, Javert would have to deal with another infraction. He still remembered how Valjean had flushed when he’d tapped his chest with the riding crop… For a moment, Javert ignored his notes to indulge in a fantasy of pushing Valjean over the very desk he was right now doing his morning’s work on, the round, powerfully-muscled arse turning red with stripe after stripe as Javert taught him manners.

The image was appealing—but even so Javert’s thoughts kept returning to the sensation of Valjean’s body warm against his, that rebellious mouth finally silenced—and surprisingly sweet. Who could have known that Valjean would be suited so well to such a task? Back in Toulon, he’d never have guessed that one day he’d have Jean Valjean in his bed—obedient, willing, all fight gone from him at last.

Abruptly, Javert stood. The thoughts of Valjean’s mouth obediently at work between his legs had not failed to have an effect; gritting his teeth against the first stirrings of arousal, he fetched his coat and buttoned it tightly before forcing himself to walk the streets of Montreuil-sur-Mer for an hour.

In the marketplace, he saw M. Robert in conversation with Mayor Regnier. Javert smiled to himself as he passed them. Indeed, Robert had changed his tune now—which was for the best. Javert did not doubt that the new mayor would be very much irritated had Javert been forced to investigate a man as well-beloved by the town as Robert.

Of course, Madeleine had been just as beloved—but where M. Robert was a gentleman, Valjean had never ceased to be a convict from the hulks. Javert had smelled it on him, right from the start, whereas with Robert, all of Javert’s instincts bade him to be respectful.

In the inn, two travelers had arrived whose passports he checked. One was a student on his way to his family in Arras, the other a merchant traveling to Paris. After this was done, Javert contemplated for a moment whether there was a reason to search out the town’s servants—but as appealing as the thought of Valjean wet with sweat was, he had already wasted too much time on recollections of his mouth.

There was work to be done—and unlike Valjean, Javert had never shirked honest work.

It was harder than on most days to keep his mind busy, but once Javert had decided on a course of action, he rarely deviated from it. It was not until the light began to fade outside the window that he looked up from his work again. Gilbert had just entered the station-house, his boots muddy from having to accompany the indentured servants back to the town.

Javert gave him a sharp look, but decided to keep his comment to himself. There was only so far men like Gilbert could go. It would be different in Paris, at least if he had any say in it—and he would, in time.

Meanwhile, Gilbert was reliable, which was more than what could be said for many of the men he had to rely on.

“Still hard at work, sir?” Gilbert said, having obviously hoped that Javert had retired to his apartment already, so that he could return to his own family.

“Anything of note to report?” Javert asked instead of answering. When Gilbert shook his head, Javert pushed the files for the Prefecture he’d been working on forward.

“Very well. Take these and add them to the mail to go out with the next post coach, then send Jean Valjean over. That will be all for today.”

He had guessed correctly by the way Gilbert eagerly collected the mail before fleeing the station-house—but then, Javert could not fault him. Not when Javert himself had been waiting for this moment all day—but it didn’t matter now that it was evening, and Valjean’s time was his by right.

Would Valjean stay in his bed tonight? Even now, he couldn’t say. He wouldn’t be surprised at all to see Valjean suddenly scared of his own courage, or growing sullen and rebellious despite having seen how much easier it was to give in, and stubbornly return to his place on the floor.

Still, the nights were growing colder, and he’d rather liked waking up with Valjean in his arms. Valjean had liked it to, whether he’d admit it or not. As frustrating as Valjean could be, he responded well to a firm hand. Once winter truly arrived, they should be past the last remnants of Valjean’s stubbornness.

It would be good to enjoy the winter here in Montreuil with an apartment of his own, plenty of food, the respect of the town, and enough money for firewood to keep his stove going all winter. To have arrived in such a position was worth all past winters of coldness and little food. In Toulon at least, winters had meant solid walls around him, a roof above his head and meat on the table, although even then he had always been aware that outside of the hulks, a guard like him didn’t amount to much.

A part of Valjean had known it too; the prisoners had all despised them, of course, but at the time it hadn’t meant much to him.

How all of that had changed now...

***

“It’s getting cold,” Javert said.

Valjean looked up from his position on the floor.

“Heat the water first before you pour it into the wash basin.”

He should enjoy what he had here while it lasted. While Javert did not doubt that enough hard work would eventually lead to a good position in Paris, he could see that the first few years would be difficult. Gisquet had certainly no great interest in seeing him rise—not unless Javert was useful for his own advancement.

Javert intended to be.

He watched as Valjean heated water, then carried it into his bedroom to pour it into the wash basin there. He did not have to be told what Javert wanted from him; when Javert entered, Valjean was already waiting, eyes on Javert, the lines around his mouth faintly worried.

The sight made Javert smile even as he raised his arms. “Undress me. Then wash me.”

Valjean was obedient, which in itself was still a pleasant experience after all these days. When he dipped a cloth into the water and raised it to Javert’s chest, the heat was just as pleasant.

Javert closed his eyes in satisfaction, a deep sigh escaping him. He’d earned this. He’d earned all of this.

Valjean’s touch was careful, almost gentle. Attentively, he ran the washcloth all over Javert’s chest, Javert’s nipples tightening at the warm friction. When Valjean dipped the cloth into the hot water again, Javert’s eyes opened. He watched as Valjean slowly went to his knees.

Valjean swallowed. Javert had begun to harden, and the sight of Valjean on his knees before him, wearing but his trousers and the thin cotton shirt, was enough to make his cock stir further.

If he told Valjean to take him into his mouth again, Valjean might even do it without putting up a fight...

Valjean raised the washcloth, the muscles of Javert’s stomach contracting at the pleasing heat that slid up his thigh. Slowly, carefully, Valjean moved up and down his legs. By the time he was done, Javert had fully hardened, his balls tight as Valjean lifted them and carefully ran the cloth over them as well. Then Valjean dipped it into the water once more, and Javert gasped when Valjean wrapped the hot, damp rag around his cock. Instinctively, he reached out to grasp Valjean’s shoulder to hold himself up, resisting the urge to thrust up into the warm grasp.

“Get the oil,” he said instead, his voice rough.

The lines around Valjean’s mouth deepened, but he obeyed that order, too. At Javert’s nod, he poured a small amount of the oil into his palm, then wrapped his hand around Javert, smoothing it over him. Javert’s eyes closed again, the heat and the tightness of Valjean’s grip so good that he allowed himself to linger on it for long moments.

“That’s enough,” he said at last. “Strip. And get on the bed.”

Valjean’s eyes rose to look at him. There was still something suffering in the lines around his mouth—but his eyes had gone dark, and from the state of his trousers, Javert could see that Valjean had not found it distasteful at all to serve him.

Then Valjean averted his gaze and quickly undressed, arranging himself on his hands and knees at another gesture from Javert.

Valjean hadn’t spoken since they’d entered the bedroom, but he made a sound when Javert finally slid into him, his body shaking as he groaned and arched his back. With a satisfied groan, Javert pressed his lips to Valjean’s shoulder, tasting the sweat gleaming on the tangle of old scars. He pushed in harder, demanding—he knew what this angle did to Valjean, and as much as Valjean might hate to show it to him, Javert had never failed in teasing it out of him if he had set his mind on it.

It did not take long at all until he heard Valjean gasping for breath, the powerful body shifting beneath him as his muscles tensed. Another hard thrust, and Valjean’s head fell forward—another, and he groaned, a deep sound that came from somewhere in his chest. Javert could feel the vibration of it against his lips, against the hand possessively curved around Valjean’s hips.

Javert stilled. It took all of his strength to resist the aching need to bury himself deep in Valjean’s body, but he knew how to bring about a complete surrender, no matter Valjean’s resistance.

Again Valjean shuddered, strong muscles bunching like a horse unused to a rider, even after all these months—and then Valjean pushed back against him, the rim of his hole pulsing around Javert as if to pull him in even deeper.

His smile widening, Javert’s hand slid over sweat-slick skin to press his palm against Valjean’s stomach.

“That’s what you want, isn’t it?” he murmured roughly into Valjean’s ear. “My cock? I’ll give it to you, never fear.”

He kept his hand there as he pushed in again, feeling Valjean’s tensing muscles from without as he buried his cock in the vulnerable heat within, Valjean so tight around him that it felt as if he wanted to keep him there forever.

Javert dug his teeth into Valjean’s shoulder as release approached, burying himself inside him as deep as possible, his thrusts growing shallower as his hips jerked forward. Beneath him, Valjean made a muffled, frustrated sound of need, every muscle tensing while Javert spilled himself inside him. Javert ignored him while his pleasure lasted, wringing every last spark of it out of himself before he at last relented with a breathless laugh.

Valjean’s stomach was wet with sweat when he slid his hand around him to find Valjean’s cock. It was thick and hard, pushing eagerly into Javert’s hand, the tip slick with frustrated need. It didn’t take more than a few hasty tugs on it to make Valjean shudder beneath him as his spend came spurting against his stomach.

“You’d think my cock alone would be enough for you, given how much you like it.” Javert made an amused sound. “I think it would. What do you think? Maybe next time that’s all you get. Then we’ll find out for certain.”

Valjean didn’t answer, still gasping for breath. After a moment, with another groan, his arms gave out so that he ended up resting on his knees and shoulders when Javert finally pulled out of him.

Javert watched through heavy-lidded eyes as Valjean slipped from the bed a moment later. The water was still pleasantly warm when Valjean returned to clean him. He watched as Valjean washed himself afterward, satisfaction thrumming warm in Javert’s stomach at the sight of the damp cloth sliding over Valjean’s bare body.

Javert allowed his eyes to fall closed with that pleasing view still before him, patiently waiting to see what Valjean would do.

At first, nothing happened. It was as he had thought then: faced with the bed and his own choice of the past night, Valjean hesitated again, struggling like a horse caught between the urging of spurs and whip and an obstacle in its path.

At last, Javert felt the bed dip. When he opened his eyes a moment later, he saw that Valjean had curled up on his side, facing away from him.

With a satisfied smile, Javert moved closer, resting an arm across Valjean’s chest. Valjean’s body was warm in his embrace—a warmth that would last, unlike that of a heated stone. It would indeed be good to have him here all through winter.

This fight, at least, was won. As obstinate as Valjean could be, in time, with enough patience and a firm hand, he’d have him as tame as his Spanish gelding.

Valjean drew back, breathing heavily. As Javert’s hand came to curve around his chin, Valjean tilted his head up, meeting Javert’s heavy-lidded gaze as he swallowed.

Javert’s own chest was still rising and falling rapidly, his skin gleaming with a faint layer of perspiration. Once Valjean had sat back up, Javert stretched, utterly at ease—and no wonder, for at last, everything was going Javert’s way.

Valjean licked his lips and averted his eyes. Perhaps he should be grateful that Javert was so easy to please. Back in the hulks, a man had to expect a beating at any time—whether he followed commands or not. Javert meanwhile had made it very clear what he wanted, and he’d never beaten Valjean unfairly. Never without provocation from Valjean himself.

He should be grateful. But even so, this would be easier to bear if only Javert made it harder…

***

The work, at least, was hard for once, in a way that helping with the harvest, with fences in need of repair or any other of the town’s myriad small tasks had not been.

They were tasked with moving stones—heavy stones to repair a part of the ramparts that might otherwise not withstand the coming winter. It was mindless work, but work which Valjean welcomed. The exhaustion helped to forget the watchful eyes of the people passing them, searching for their former mayor, gloating, perhaps, at his degradation.

These days, there was only the ache of his muscles and his weariness, and by the time the sun sank below the horizon, he was ready to fall to his knees wherever Javert pointed, eat whatever Javert offered, surrender to whatever Javert desired, and fall into a deep sleep by Javert’s side even though he knew what the morning would bring.

It was almost December by the time the ramparts were as ready as they could be for the coming snow and following thaw, safe enough for now, whatever temperatures the winter might bring. There had not been much time for Fantine’s lessons—but it would be winter soon enough, and they would have long, dark evenings then. As long as they had the light of a candle, they would be able to make some progress—and in the spring, perhaps, Fantine would be able to write and read her own letters from Montfermeil.

“Valjean. Here.”

It was on one of those final days out by the ramparts that a whisper reached his ear.

When he turned suspiciously, peering at the copse of trees behind him, he saw a moment later an arm appear from behind a tree and beckon him closer. Valjean tensed, then relaxed when finally, just for a heartbeat, a familiar face came into view before the man hastily hid behind the trees once more.

It was Robert.

They had not had much time to talk lately, and truth be told, with the passing weeks and the hard work out here, Valjean had all but forgotten about Robert’s promise.

“What are you doing here?” he hissed when he joined Robert, hidden from view behind a thicket.

It was true that there was no reason for anyone to come by this part of the ramparts at this time of day—there were hours left before one of Javert’s agents would appear to accompany them back to the barracks. Still, if by chance someone were to see, Robert’s reputation in the town would surely suffer.

“It’s happening.” Robert sounded feverish, his eyes gleaming as he grasped Valjean’s arms. “Don’t you remember what I promised you? It’s happening at last. Don’t tell anyone—no one can know that you know, and it might be weeks yet before he announces it—”

“What are you talking about?” Valjean asked, then froze, something inside his stomach turning. “It’s Javert, isn’t it? He’s leaving for Paris?”

Shouldn’t the news have delighted him? Instead, his heart was pounding in his chest and he couldn’t seem to breathe, no matter how much he struggled.

Javert gone... With Javert gone, what would become of him?

“If only we were so lucky.” Robert sighed. “No, it’s Regnier. Why do you think I supported his nomination? He is moving to Paris in the spring; his wife’s father is close to death and there is an inheritance waiting. It is exactly as I thought it would be.”

“Oh,” Valjean said dully, the panic that had taken hold of him leaving him feeling uncertain and strangely sick.

Why should the thought of Javert leaving have such an effect on him? Without Javert, everything would be so much easier.

Of course, who was to say that the next inspector would keep Javert’s bargain? For all Valjean knew, the next man might be worse—might have him in chains day and night, or, perhaps, unlike Javert, have more of a taste for beautiful women than for forcing a man’s submission...

“Don’t you understand?” Robert sounded nearly giddy. “Who do you think will be mayor after him?”

“I don’t know,” Valjean admitted. Even when he had been mayor, the doings and plots of the town’s bourgeoisie had been of little interest to him.

Robert smiled at him, the way Valjean had seen him smile indulgently at small children. “Me,” he said. “Think about it. It’s what they always wanted.”

“But you supported me—”

“And then I publicly disowned you and supported Regnier. No, in the eyes of the town, you’re a thing of the past. A regrettable mistake. In the spring, I’ll build another mill; everything is planned and signed. They will like that. And then of course, your factory is now mine, and things are going well with it. I will pretend that I don’t want the position, of course, and in the end, they will insist that I have to accept the honor.”

“And Javert...”

“Javert will still be around, I fear. I cannot get rid of him—not so soon. Not after—you know.”

“Not after he arrested me,” Valjean said softly. “Of course. Your reputation.”

“I’m sorry,” Robert said. “If there had been a faster way... But once I’m mayor, I’ll be the one to decide what to do with you. It will be just like I promised you. You can go wherever you want. I shall bear the ire of the town; I won’t care, as long as I know that you’re well and as free as you can be.”

Freedom. To do as he pleased; to be alone once more at night, with no one to take delight in his vulnerability and degradation...

It should have been a great relief, but at that moment, it seemed unimaginable.

“Thank you, Robert,” he said regardless, his chest aching at the kindness he knew he didn’t deserve. He hesitated, then reached out and clasped Robert’s arm, pressing it in gratitude.

Whether he believed that Robert’s words would come true or not did not matter, after all; what mattered was that Robert was kind enough to try to help him.

***

They stopped working when darkness began to fall; by the time they made it back to the barracks, it was completely dark.

Valjean was exhausted. There was something pleasant in the hard work—it kept his mind from straying. There was no thought left but that of the stones, of where to grip, where best to set his foot, how to make it all the way up the incline with a heavy stone without losing his footing or his grip.

Still, the day was not yet over for him. He knew what was to come, and in the darkness, the streets already deserted as they filed back in, walking past lit windows, the thought of the room and the company that awaited him was not entirely unpleasant. He was hungry, and he knew that Javert would feed him. Perhaps there would be a coat to brush or boots to polish—but after that, he would be allowed to sleep.

Despite the lateness of the day, there was still light in the station-house. After Valjean had washed and pulled on a clean shirt in the barracks, he left the other indentured servants behind, who were tiredly gathered around the small table, paying more attention to their meal than to Valjean when he left.

As he had done so many evenings before, Valjean opened the door to the station-house, intending to go up to Javert’s apartment upstairs, past those agents Javert had kept working past sunset. But when Valjean entered, he found to his surprise that the station-house was empty and that only a single lamp was still lit. It was the lamp on Javert’s desk.

Javert was still in his chair, bent over a letter, so distracted by his work that he seemed not to have noticed Valjean’s arrival.

For a moment Valjean wondered whether he had come too early—but no, it was dark outside, and Javert had always been firm in his demand that Valjean wash and make himself available as quickly as possible once he was done with his day’s work. Javert did not like for him to be idle.

After a moment, he hesitantly approached Javert.

“Sir,” he said.

Javert did not look up until Valjean’s shadow fell onto his desk.

“Valjean,” he murmured, then looked around. “How late is it...?” A moment later, he made a dismissive gesture. “Never mind. It’s late, I can see that. Don’t disturb me; this has to be done today.”

“Yes, sir,” Valjean said obediently, happy to play along with such an order. He was exhausted—hungry, too, but to complain about that would be to ask Javert for a punishment. He would eat when Javert ate, and no sooner. For now he was simply glad to be out of the cold.

Distracted, Javert pointed to the floor next to his chair.

Biting back a tired sigh, Valjean went around his desk, then sank to his knees, wincing a little as his tired muscles protested. The floor was hard—but then, he had known far worse, and soon enough, he would have the luxury of a soft bed and a stove to keep him warm.

For a long while, there was no sound but that of the pen scratching on paper. Although there was a stove in the station-house, the floor was cold. Still, the silence was soothing.

After a while, Javert’s hand came down to idly trail his fingers through Valjean’s hair. Valjean bore the touch without complaint and without flinching away. He did not move even when Javert stared at the letter before him for long minutes, apparently so deeply lost in thought that he was not even aware of Valjean’s presence anymore.

At last, the hand lifted and the scratching of pen on paper resumed. Every now and then, Javert made a thoughtful sound. The fire crackled; once, a log shifted in the stove. Apart from that, there was silence.

Finally, Javert sighed and put down his pen. When Valjean looked up, he could see that Javert had closed his eyes, stretching. He looked exhausted, too.

To whom had he written?

It did not matter; surely he wouldn’t tell Valjean, and even if he did, it would have no meaning to him. He did not owe Javert anything, least of all his concern.

When he looked up again, he saw that Javert’s eyes had opened. He was meeting Valjean’s gaze, smiling.

“Come here,” Javert said in a low voice, pushing his chair back a little.

Valjean’s brows drew together as he contemplated what Javert might want from him, but he obeyed regardless.

“No, not there,” Javert said when Valjean moved closer to his chair. “There.”

He pointed to the floor right in front of him, between his spread legs—beneath his desk.

Valjean felt blood rushing to his face. Surely Javert could not mean—surely not here, in the station-house, where someone might come in at any moment?

“Well? I’m waiting.”

His stomach tight with dread, Valjean watched himself obediently shuffle closer.

Once in position, it was not so bad—the position was familiar, even if the surroundings weren’t. And no one was left in the building. It was just him and Javert. It made no difference.

Still, Valjean’s heart was thudding rapidly in his chest when Javert’s hands went to his trousers.

Once Javert had freed himself, Valjean leaned forward. He knew what Javert liked—Javert did not liked being teased, feeling as if he was being toyed with, but he did like it when Valjean took his time. In this, as in all other ways, Javert wanted the job done diligently, with great care, and it had not taken Valjean very long to learn to perform the task to Javert’s satisfaction.

Today especially, with Javert looking so weary, he seemed to be in the mood for an unhurried affair, and so Valjean took his time, only slowly taking him deeper, letting the sound of Javert’s quiet moans guide him.

Javert’s legs framed his body, the desk behind his back keeping him from view in case someone were to enter—at least, he hoped that would be the case. A part of Valjean was ashamed even now by how public this was, but Javert was hot and hard in his mouth, droplets of bitter arousal smeared over Valjean’s tongue. With his nose almost buried in the wiry hairs at the root of Javert’s shaft and surrounded by the potency of Javert’s desire, it was hard to think of anything but how best to please him.

Valjean swallowed, pressing his tongue against the underside of Javert’s cock. He could feel the throbbing of a vein, a moment before the taste of Javert intensified. Javert groaned, and Valjean focused on keeping his mouth relaxed as Javert’s hips came forward, Javert’s fingers tightening in his hair as Javert’s release flooded his mouth.

Once Javert had sunk back into his chair, his hand finally loosened its tight grip on Valjean’s head. When Valjean raised his eyes, Javert gave him a small nod, his eyes still unfocused and a breathless, genuine smile playing on his lips.

Valjean drew back, swallowing, becoming aware of their surroundings once more. No one had come in. And why should they?

Still, it was hard to fight his embarrassment. To be seen like this, after the respect he’d once been shown in this town...

Javert reached out again, fingers trailing through Valjean’s hair before they tightened to give it a playful tug.

“It’s growing long again,” he said thoughtfully. This time, Valjean wasn’t able to suppress his instinctive flinch.

Javert laughed and released his hair to trail his thumb along Valjean’s swollen lip. “Don’t worry. I like having something to hold on to.”

Any other day, Javert’s words would have been a relief. Today, his heart didn’t stop pounding until Javert had leisurely put his clothes in order again, buttoning his trousers with a small laugh.

“To think what great frustration my work here used to cause me. I’d never thought that one day, I’d have you here on your knees instead…”

Then he finally pushed his chair back again, and Valjean rose gratefully, unable to keep from glancing back towards the door.

No one had come in. The room was empty except for the two of them. Still, his heart wouldn’t stop racing.

Javert cursed as ink spread over the paper, the half-written letter now ruined. He crumpled it in his fist. When he looked up, he saw that conversation in the station-house had fallen silent.

Clenching his jaw, he dipped his pen into the ink again to begin another reply.

The letter had come from Chief Inspector Gisquet, and it had not been as warm as Javert might have expected, given the great service he had rendered the state by uncovering the true identity of the mayor. But then, he had always known that Gisquet would not easily be won over—not by Javert’s background, at least, and it seemed that even the famous arrest of Jean Valjean had not sufficed to sway Gisquet’s opinion of him.

He could not say why that stung. Had he not faced adversity before? In the end, he would have what he wanted; it had always been that way. If he worked twice as hard as another man, it was impossible to continue to overlook him. In time, no superior could fail recognize the good work he consistently delivered.

Perhaps it Javert’s his own fault, to have expected respect from the Chief Inspector of the Prefecture, only two years after Javert had risen to the position of Chief of Police of an unimportant provincial town. There were many men like him, after all, seeking to distinguish themselves. He should be grateful for what he had—not Gisquet’s support, perhaps, but there had been letters from the prefecture, signed by the secretary of the prefect himself, commending him and giving him hope that a man higher than Gisquet would see to it that sometime during the coming year, once a position opened up in the prefecture, it was Javert who would trade the narrow streets of Montreuil for the Rue de Jérusalem.

Still, it would not happen before spring. Nothing ever happened in the winter, in his experience. Spring was a time for change—perhaps summer, if Gisquet proved particularly disinclined to go along with the secretary’s gentle hints.

And yet, had not Rivette told him that Gisquet, too, was ambitious? A man with ambitions would not act against the wishes of the Prefect—

A sudden loud bang distracted Javert, his pen scratching across the paper, leaking another puddle of ink that ruined the letter. With a furious sound, Javert rose, his head turning into the direction from which the sound had come.

The door to the station-house stood open, he now saw. Gilbert, usually so reliable, stood in the doorway with a shocked expression on his face. A gust of cold air blew in, disturbing the paper on the desk next to the door, where Delrue had been seated. Hastily, Delrue now lunged across the table to keep his papers from escaping in the sudden breeze.

“For God’s sake, man, shut the damn door,” he barked, and Gilbert hastily stepped inside, forcing the door closed behind him despite the force of the wind.

“Sorry, sir. Seems there’s a storm brewing,” Gilbert began with an apologetic smile, then fell silent when he came face to face with Javert at last.

Javert felt his hand twitch, aching for the weight of the cane in his hand. He could not discipline Gilbert like an unruly schoolboy, but by God, today he was sorely tried.

“Save your apologies,” he snapped. “Sit down and stop making such a racket. I have half a mind to shut you away with that vagabond in our cells.”

Gilbert paled, as if he’d only now come to realize the weight of his transgression, and Javert felt his mood worsen. It was no wonder that Gisquet failed to consider him worthy of any respect, given that these were the men under his command. Even Gilbert, the most reliable of them, seemed only a small step up from the guards of the hulks, who in turn had been little better than the convicts they guarded.

Step by step by step Javert had dragged himself out of that milieu—but it seemed that no matter how high he climbed, he would never be able to leave disrespect and incompetence behind.

“I’m going out,” he said grimly. “Clean up the mess you’ve caused.”

***

Once he’d left the station-house behind, he could see that Gilbert had been right. A storm was brewing. The sky was dark, the wind already strong. It was not yet cold enough for snow, but given the eerie color of the sky, he would not be surprised to hear tomorrow that hail had fallen and shattered windows—perhaps even killed some of the livestock outside.

Belatedly, he realized that Gilbert had been supposed to oversee the work of the indentured servants this afternoon. Why had he come back so early? There was still light enough for them to be useful somewhere.

Abruptly, he yanked the door open and thrust his head back inside. “What are you doing back here, Gilbert? Where are the workers?”

Gilbert, he saw to his satisfaction, was on his knees before his desk, trying to gather the papers his blunder had left on the floor. At Javert’s sudden reappearance, he flinched.

“Oh! That’s what I wanted to tell you, sir,” he said. “With the storm coming, I sent them back—only that was an hour ago, and they should have been back by now. Only—well, they aren’t.”

Javert fought to keep his fury under control. “And you’re saying that now?” He bit back another curse as a sudden gust of wind nearly yanked the door from his own hand.

More papers slipped from the desk. Delrue, at least, was smart enough not to remark on it.

“Never mind. I’ll go after them myself.”

“Sir,” Gilbert said helplessly, but Javert closed the door with so much force that it slammed shut with a satisfying bang.

Given how the day had gone so far, Gilbert’s assistance was the last thing he needed.

The stable lad was nowhere to be seen, so he hastily saddled Noiraude himself, ignoring the curious nicker of the golden gelding in the box next to his mare. Mere minutes later, he was on his way, trotting rapidly over wet cobblestones, for the dark clouds above had at last started to open up.

The rain was so heavy he could barely see. He pulled up by the gate, glad to be out of the rain for a moment, questioning the guard stationed there as to whether there had been any sighting of the indentured men and women, but the man only shook his head.

“Not that I’ve seen, sir. No one’s been by in the past hour, save for your man Gilbert. With a storm like this, it’s best to stay put where you are and wait it out.”

There was the grumble of thunder high above, and Javert cursed again. Jean Valjean, all alone out in the woods—would such a man seek shelter, or wouldn’t he rather use the opportunity and make an escape?

He hadn’t so far, that was true—but if he moved while the storm was raging, he might make it past the little settlements where people knew his name and his face…

Furious, he nudged Noiraude forward, taking the path that led down from the ramparts at full speed, mud spattering his boots and the hem of his coat.

He paid it no heed as he hurtled down past the ramparts, grinding his teeth as he imagined Valjean sheltering in a cave in the woods where he might not be found—together with that woman, perhaps, for hadn’t he always seemed suspiciously concerned for her well-being?

The image only fanned his fury, so that he barely saw the shapes that suddenly arose from behind the veil of heavy rain.

Noiraude reared up as Javert cursed again and tightened his grip on the reins. By the time he had her under control once more, he saw that the shapes that had appeared so suddenly were men and women in threadbare coats of sodden wool—one of them Fantine. Her face was pale as she faced Noiraude who was still skittish and fidgeting beneath him, head high and ears close to her head.

“What are you doing out here? Where’s Valjean?” Javert demanded, his eyes searching for the familiar figure of Valjean—who was nowhere to be seen. Only four of the servants had returned. Two men, two women.

It was exactly as he had feared.

“Your man sent us back home,” Fantine said. “Does that surprise you?”

“Valjean,” he repeated through gritted teeth, Noiraude vibrating beneath him as if she could feel his anger.

He forced himself to lose his grip on the reins, just a little, sliding a reassuring hand along her wet neck.

“That’s what we’ve come to tell you.” Fantine rolled her eyes at him. “He’s still out there in the forest. We were walking back just as M. Gilbert told us, and then the storm broke lose. There was lightning—we saw it come down, somewhere here in the woods, near the bridge. Valjean claims he heard a sound. We only heard thunder, but he says it was the sort of scream a horse makes.”

“We told him to leave it. It’s not our concern, is it, if someone gets himself in trouble, riding in this sort of weather? We’re just here to carry stones for you folk, aren’t we?” One of the men spit on the ground—Caillot, the thief. “He says it was a horse, and that someone’s in trouble, and to ask for help in the town. Then he was off.”

“A likely tale.” Javert gave them a dark look. It was true—it was a fearsome storm. And it was the sort of story Valjean would invent. Wasn’t he always happy to find an excuse? First Fantine, now a traveler. But who in his right mind would travel in such a storm, and why would Valjean run off to help instead of coming back into town to inform one of his men of what he had heard?

“You’d think that, wouldn’t you.” Fantine looked at him with the sort of derision he’d seen a hundred times before. But now was not the time to deal with her. Not when Valjean could be who knew where by this point.

“Get back to the barracks,” he said. “Let Gilbert know you’ve returned. And tell him I’m going after Valjean and expect reinforcement.”

Gilbert wouldn’t like that. Neither would any of the other men, but Javert didn’t care. He’d have Valjean back within the hour, no matter what it took—and then he’d make certain that the man would never run again.

He loosened the reins and let Noiraude feel the spurs, who dashed off along the muddy path as fast as the lightning illuminating the sky above them. He let her run for long minutes, contemplating feverishly where Valjean might have run to.

Could he have spoken the truth? What if there had indeed been an accident by the bridge? It was not impossible—not in this sort of storm. But if Valjean were to run, surely he wouldn’t take that direction?

Frustration boiled within Javert until it finally found release in a furious shout tearing free from his throat, only to be immediately swallowed by the storm raging all around him.

If Valjean were to run, Javert’s best bet was to go south, for surely Valjean was trying to find a coach that would take him to Paris as quickly as possible. In Paris, a man like Valjean could vanish as quick as lightning. In the small communities here by the coast, a man like him would always arouse instant suspicion.

If Javert took the path north to investigate the area where the bridge crossed the river Dordonne, he would waste precious time. Surely that entire tale was a ploy to get both the other indentured servants off his back and keep Javert distracted while the storm went on .

He’d be a fool to believe Valjean’s excuses. There was not a minute to lose. If he lost Valjean, he’d be the laughter of the entire Prefecture—and what of his hopes and ambitions then? For a man like Javert, that infamy would last longer and weigh heavier than last year’s success.

Before him, the split in the road appeared—one path leading to the right and entering the forest, the other path leading to the left, following along the forest’s border before it at last wound around a hill and headed south, away from both forest and Montreuil. Due to the weather, Javert could not make out much of that road—and of course, by now Valjean would surely have made it past the hills.

Noiraude’s hooves were sending up mud as they thundered towards where the road forked, Javert’s gaze going from left to right. It should have been an easy choice. There was nothing for him to gain by going right, and everything to lose by not choosing the left path.

Who was Jean Valjean, after all, but a convict, a thief, a criminal? He’d lied to an entire town for years. He’d thought he could play Javert for a fool. Why now should Javert believe such an obvious lie?

The forest was close now. Through the gray veil of rain, Javert could make out the outline of trees coming up. He leaned forward, forcing Noiraude to an even faster speed as he stared at the fork before him in fury—and then pulled the mare’s head to the right, another frustrated shout of rage breaking free as he chose the path that would lead them deep into the forest, despite his better knowledge.

Once they were beneath the canopy of leaves, the force of the storm lessened. The branches above protected them from the worst of wind and rain, even though the trees swayed and creaked dangerously in the gales of wind.

His choice made, his anger lessened somewhat. He shortened the reins until Noiraude snorted, reluctantly slowing to a trot. There were branches blocking their way every now and then, torn from the trees by the wind, and as much as he wanted to get his hands on Valjean, he couldn’t endanger his horse if he wanted to have any chance of recapturing him.

Another flash of lightning lit the sky. Almost immediately, an echoing boom of thunder followed, so loud that Javert could feel it vibrate in his bones. Noiraude’s ears played nervously, but Javert nudged her onward, tightening the grip of his thighs. She smoothly jumped across a fallen branch, continuing on down the path without faltering.

A quarter of an hour passed before they came close to the area where Valjean had claimed to hear a scream. Even through the sound of the storm Javert could hear the roar of water, the rain having swelled the river that ran not far from the path. Any minute, they would come to where it was crossed by the bridge, and then—

Javert refused to think of the humiliation of having to turn around after having wasted half an hour on a convict’s lies. Clenching his jaw, he forced Noiraude onward, until finally the canopy above them opened up, rain falling heavily down on them once more.

Before them, the bridge appeared through the rain, a simple construction of wood just wide enough for a carriage to pass.

Once they reached it, he brought Noiraude to a halt. She chewed on the bit, dancing nervously from foot to foot as not far below, the river rushed past. The water was high—not high enough to sweep away the bridge, which had been built with such a flood in mind. Still, with such a storm, Valjean’s story was not entirely unlikely. It would not be the first time that a traveler had been surprised by a storm and injured by a falling tree—or worse, the riverbank giving way, or a mudslide burying both horse and rider.

Javert stood up in the stirrups, peering along the river bank. He could not see far in the rain.

“Valjean,” he yelled. “Valjean!”

He could barely make out the sound of his own voice over the roar of the storm and the river.

He waited breathlessly for long moments. There was no answer, and something twisted in his stomach.

“Valjean,” he yelled again, turning back and forth to peer at the river below.

Again there was silence. He clenched his teeth so tightly his jaw hurt, another scream of rage building in his chest as he tightened his fingers around the slippery reins, forcing the nervous mare around.

And that was when he heard it. Somewhere in the distance, barely audible over the rushing water, there had been an answering shout.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Exhausted, Valjean clung to the steep side of the riverbank. His feet rested on a slippery stone, barely wide enough for his toes. One of his arms wrapped around a root, which so far had born his weight. His other arm held an even more precarious burden—the collar of a woolen coat, sodden with water and mud. The coat in turn was worn by a man who every now and then tried to find purchase on the muddy riverbank, which here jutted up nearly vertically above the rushing river.

At first, after Valjean had hastily climbed down, it had looked as if with his help, the man might make it back up—but then the traveler’s foothold had given way and plunged into the furious water below, and ever since then, every attempt of the man to make his way up the muddy bank had led to a similar result.

Valjean’s arms ached. Had he been in a better position, perhaps he might have succeeded in pulling the man up by the collar of his coat—but Valjean barely managed to cling to his own precarious hold. Had he had a rope, perhaps…

But it was no use. For now, all he could do was to hope that Fantine would deliver his message, and that Javert would send someone out to look for them.

Valjean took a deep breath, then tightened his grip on the man’s collar.

“Try again,” he shouted through the storm. “If you can make it to the root…”

He could not even say whether the root he was clinging to would support the weight of two men. Nevertheless, if the stranger could get a grasp on it, Valjean might be able to release his coat and climb back up—and then, from that position, he might be able to assist the man…

The stranger groaned as he stretched toward him, then flinched as one of his feet lost their footing, another stone plunging into the water below.

“It’s no use,” the man cried in good French, although by his accent Valjean thought he had to be an Englishman. “Save yourself, sir!”

Valjean ignored him, panting as he clung to the root. His fingers ached, but he would not release his hold on the man. How long had the storm raged? Surely it would move on soon enough, and once the rain lessened, there might be some other traveler coming along the path to the bridge…

A flash of lightning illuminated the furious river below. Thunder followed almost instantaneously.

The storm was still right above them. Valjean felt his heart sink. How much longer would he be able to hold on?

Then, distantly, so that he almost thought it the reverberating echo of the peal of thunder, there was a sound. It almost sounded like his name…

Valjean gritted his teeth as he shook his head, water dripping from his hair, running into his eyes.

It was no use. It was impossible to make out the bridge from here. The rain was so heavy and his position so precarious that all he could see was the muddy bank he clung to and the roaring water below.

Nevertheless, for a heartbeat, hope had flared up in him. Holding his breath, he listened intently.

Silence.

He exhaled. What a fool he was, to believe that providence would send help his way when he knew very well that Javert would not believe a single word Fantine told him, if she had even made it back to the town yet with the others…

Then there was the sound again. It was still just as distant, barely audible—but it was the sound of a human voice. Someone, somewhere, was shouting his name.

“Down here,” Valjean yelled, twisting his head. “I’m here! Help me! Please!”

At first, there was no answer. He listened, but all he heard was the thunder of his racing heart.

Then the cry came again—closer this time, and a voice Valjean recognized. It was that of Javert.

“Down here,” Valjean shouted again. “Down by the river!”

It took several minutes until Javert made it to the spot where Valjean and the Englishman were still clinging to the riverbank.

“For God’s sake, Valjean,” Javert shouted somewhere above. “What have you done now?”

Valjean laughed bitterly, but chose not to answer. “Is there some branch,” he yelled instead. “I don’t assume you brought a rope? There are two of us.”

“I should have brought a rope to tie you up, for all the trouble you’ve been causing me,” Javert snapped. A moment later, something was lowered down to them—Javert’s reins, Valjean realized.

Were they long enough for the Englishman to grab hold of?

Valjean watched as the stranger stretched as far as he could, but it was to no avail.

Valjean took a deep breath. “Whatever you do, make sure to grab hold of the reins,” he said grimly. “Ready?”

“I don’t know what you’re trying to do, sir,” the stranger said, sounding panicked, “but I do not think—”

“Now,” Valjean shouted, and then wrenched the man towards him with all his might. His arm ached fiercely, but he didn’t let go, groaning in pain when it felt that any moment, a muscle might tear—but there was nothing but the river below, and if he let go now, the man was certain to die.

The Englishman had cried out in sudden shock—but a heartbeat later, Valjean felt the weight on his arm lessen. Panting against the rain and the mud that covered his face, he saw to his great relief that the man had managed to grip hold of the wet reins dangling down from above.

“Hold on tight,” he said, keeping his aching arm on the man just in case. “Pull him up!” he then shouted, and a moment later, little by little, the Englishman was dragged up the riverbank.

Exhausted, Valjean slumped against the root that kept him from plunging down into the river. His muscles burned fiercely, and although he might have managed to climb back up on his own, after the long fight to keep the man alive he was too exhausted to give it a try.

Fortunately, after some minutes had passed, Javert lowered the reins back down to him and Valjean wound them gratefully around his wrists. Even with that support it took several minutes to make his way back up. Once he reached flat ground, he could not find the strength to rise, remaining on the wet ground for a long moment as he fought to regain his breath.

At last, when Javert’s boot nudged his shoulder, Valjean rolled to his back, the rain falling onto his face and washing some of the mud away.

His heart was still racing, every thud a painful stab in his side—but he was alive. He’d made it back up, and so had the stranger.

“I cannot wait to hear your explanation for all of this,” Javert said above him. By the set of his mouth, Valjean could tell that Javert was furious—but the precarious rescue of the foreign traveler seemed to have left its mark as well, for surely there could be no other reason for the relief in Javert’s voice.

“What a mad thing to do. What made you get so close to the river in this storm?”

“It was my fault, sir,” the stranger said. “James Cobbett, pleased to make your acquaintance. My horse lost his footing—lightning came down and frightened him, and when I fell, I slid right down the riverbank. I don’t know how long I was hanging there. It felt like an eternity before this gentleman came to my rescue.” The man turned to Valjean. “I am truly very grateful. You nearly ended up dead yourself!”

With a pained groan, Valjean pushed himself into a sitting position facing Javert at last. “I heard the scream of a horse through the storm, sir. It came from somewhere close to the bridge, so I thought I had better make certain that nothing had happened. We saw lightning hit somewhere close by. I thought that a traveler might have found himself in trouble—”

“And indeed you were right!” Cobbett laughed, then made a surprised sound. “And would you look at that; there’s my horse! I thought he must have run off after the lightning strike. Come here—that’s a good boy!”

With the rain still falling incessantly, dripping steadily from his hair, Valjean watched as Cobbett carefully coaxed a horse forth from where a thick growth of pine trees must have stopped its panicked escape. The poor animal was wet, and so were its saddlebags; still, when Cobbett finally got a hold of its reins and walked it towards them, it seemed uninjured.

Just then, there was another flash of lightning. This time, thunder followed a little later. The storm seemed to be travel on, then—even so, they needed to find shelter.

Valjean rose to his feet, his body still aching, and gave Javert a wary look.

“There is the Boulet farm,” he said. “It’s not far from here.”

Javert exhaled with obvious displeasure as he stared at him, but he seemed to have come to the same conclusion as Valjean. They needed to wait out the rain—Javert might have forced Valjean to walk all the way back to Montreuil in the violent storm, but he would not ask such a thing of an Englishman in possession of a fine horse and a well-cut coat.

It felt as if they’d been walking through the wind and rain for an eternity before the Boulet farm finally appeared before them. In truth, it was little more than a large clearing in the forest; Boulet, a solitary and taciturn man, made a sparse living from the herd of pigs who found their sustenance in the forest, his house not much larger than the small stable where he kept a cow and several goats.

Valjean watched as Javert knocked impatiently on the door. When it finally opened a crack, old father Boulet peering at them suspiciously with an old musket in hand, they exchanged a few words Valjean could not quite make out. Nevertheless, a few moments later, the door opened, and Javert gestured for the Englishman to enter.

“He doesn’t have much, but you’ll be able to warm yourself by his fire and rest,” Javert said.

“And you, sir?” Cobbett demanded when Javert made no sign of following him inside.

“The house is small. We will stay in the stable. There’s space enough for the horses—my man here will take care of your horse.”

Cobbett frowned as his eyes sought out Valjean. “I have to protest; it was you who saved my life. By all rights, you should sit by the fire inside—”

“Please,” Valjean said, forcing himself to smile, “go inside and warm yourself. You owe me nothing; anyone would have done the same. I will be glad to get out of this rain, and the stable is more than sufficient for me.”

Cobbett looked as if he wanted to argue again, but just at that moment another boom of thunder reverberated through the sky, and he seemed to realize that while they were arguing, rain was still pouring down on Valjean.

“You have my thanks, sir,” he said.

“There are old blankets in the stable,” father Boulet said gruffly, then closed the door in their face.

Exhausted, Valjean wiped the wet hair out of his eyes, then followed Javert towards the stable. Javert walked stiffly, as though he were still angry at something—perhaps it was merely the curt manner in which father Boulet had treated him. It was true that Javert did not tolerate disrespect—but while he could command respect from his agents and from the indentured servants, he had no such authority over even a man such as father Boulet, who had barely enough to live on and whose house was far below the state of Javert’s own lodgings above the station-house.

The stable was warm. There was a pervading smell of livestock, but inside it was dry, even though the windows were dirty and all surfaces covered by a layer of dust. Once, when father Boulet’s own father had still lived here with his wife and six or seven children, the stable had housed cows and sheep and a horse or two to pull a plow and drive a cart to Montreuil’s market every week.

Now the part of the stable that had once held Boulet’s horses stood empty. At a sign from Javert, Valjean led the horses into the dusty boxes, quickly removing their tack before he grabbed hold of a handful of straw, twisting it so that he could brush the water from their wet coats.

There was a cow tied up in a corner who seemed content to ignore them while a group of curious goats was locked inside another wooden compartment to wait out the storm, bleating incessantly, two especially curious animals trying unsuccessfully to climb over the wooden barrier that kept them trapped at the back of the stable.

Cobbett’s horse had calmed as soon as they made it out of the rain. Much of the mud from when it had slipped had been washed away already, although it would need thorough grooming once its coat had dried. For now, Valjean focused on warming the beast with firm strokes of the twisted straw in his hand, currying it thoroughly despite his own weariness until its coat was no longer dripping wet. Then, before Javert could give the order, he slipped into the box where Javert’s mare stood, repeating the task there while the mare flicked her wet tail in discontent as she snuffled at the empty manger.

Valjean patted her neck once he was done. “You’ll be back home with your oats soon enough,” he murmured, then took a deep breath and stepped out of the box to face Javert’s judgment.

Javert had taken off his sodden coat and hung it carefully on a nail, where it was now dripping water onto the dirty floor. He still carried his riding crop in his hand as he studied the wall of the stable where the tack of Boulet’s old horses hung, awaiting, it seemed, better times and the return of a horse to pull his cart. There was a dusty horse collar, reins that had stiffened from neglect, a pile of rusty horseshoes and various implements—iron bits, bent nails and a much-mended bridle.

Idly, Javert’s crop hit the wet leather of his boots. He had not yet turned around to face Valjean.

Valjean felt his jaw tighten at the sight. Javert was not in a good mood. But what right had Javert to be upset with him? Should he have let the man die?

He knew better than to disturb Javert when he had not been addressed. It took long minutes until Javert had finished his perusal of the scraps left behind by the stable’s past inhabitants. When he turned around to study Valjean instead, his mouth was tight and his eyes still dark.

Whatever was to come might perhaps be averted by speaking up now—by apologizing for whatever it was that had angered Javert so. But what had he done wrong?

He’d acted on his own, that was true, without an order to do so. But a man’s life had been at stake.

Valjean raised his chin as he met Javert’s gaze, clenching his jaw. No, he’d do whatever Javert asked of him, as he’d always done, but he wouldn’t apologize for refusing to let a man die.

James Paul Cobbett is in fact a real person who took his horse to France with him and wrote a book about traveling through France on horseback in 1827: A ride of eight hundred miles in France.

Impatiently, Javert slapped the crop against his boots again as he considered Valjean. The man clearly knew what he’d done. He was staring at Javert with the same mulish expression that so far had never failed to make Javert’s hackles rise.

Very well; he’d been lenient for too long, it seemed. It was always the same: weeks of good behavior invariably followed by Valjean’s obstinacy, as if reason could never win out for too long.

“I’d like an explanation,” he said. “I’m wet, Valjean. I rode through a thunderstorm. I’m trapped inside Father Boulet’s stable with a herd of goats—and all while there’s work waiting for me back in Montreuil. Instead I am here, because I once again had to come running after you. So. Do you have an explanation for that?”

“You’ve already heard it,” Valjean said with that same stubborn cast to his mouth. “Sir.”

“No,” Javert said, “what I want is a real explanation. Now, Valjean.”

Valjean’s mouth tightened sullenly, the lines around it deepening. “I don’t know what you want to hear. A storm was coming up. We saw lightning strike right in the forest, not far from where we were working. I heard a horse scream—no one else had heard it, or perhaps they preferred to get out of the storm as quickly as possible. So I asked them to inform you that someone was possibly in trouble by the bridge, sir, while I tried to see if I could be of help. And as you could see for yourself, help was indeed needed.”

Javert made an incredulous sound. “That’s no explanation. I want to know what in God’s name gave you the idea that you’re free to come and go as you please, to make decisions like that—you’re still thinking you’re a magistrate, aren’t you? You get an idea into your head and you simply run off, as though you weren’t a convict, an indentured servant. You send messages, not to ask for permission but to inform me—me! And more than that, you think that you can give me orders, that you can summon me to come do your bidding!”

Valjean stiffened, lips tightly pressed together as he stared at Javert. “Are you saying I should have let the English gentleman die? Sir?”

His nostrils flared as he exhaled, the words dripping a contempt even the polite address couldn’t hide.

Javert took a step forward, a part of him enjoying the play of fury and frustration on Valjean’s face as the man’s fists clenched helplessly. “I’m saying it wasn’t your decision to make. Why is that lesson so hard to learn?”

Valjean was breathing heavily, his face flushed and his eyes dark, as if he were only moments from lashing out. Still he took another step back when Javert pressed forward.

“When there’s a life at stake?” Valjean demanded. “Is that what you’re saying? That you want me to be your puppet? To watch dispassionately without lifting a finger when a man is in danger if you aren’t around to command me to assist?”

“Careful, Valjean,” Javert murmured, a strange thrill stirring deep in his stomach. How long had it been since he’d last seen this side of Valjean? For so long, the man had pretended to be the philanthropic magistrate—and afterward, a martyred innocent who’d sacrificed himself for a woman.

But this was the truth. This was what had been hiding inside Valjean all along—this rage, this uncontrollable fury. Here was the brutal convict once more—a man who was little better than a wild beast in chains.

Valjean was still staring at him, chest heaving and fists clenched. Would he lash out?

Javert could taste the thrill of danger on his tongue. But he knew Valjean. Perhaps the man would never learn manners, but he’d learned enough to keep himself under control in Javert’s presence. Even when faced with those broad shoulders and tense muscles, a man as strong as a Flemish stallion, Javert was in no danger from his fists.

He raised his riding crop and tapped it slowly against Valjean’s chest. “You know better than this, don’t you?”

For a moment, Valjean stared at him with open fury—and then, just like that, he seemed to crumple, his eyes squeezing shut as his shoulders began to shake, his fists rising not to attack Javert but to cover his eyes.

“If I had not gone to help,” he said hoarsely, “if I’d heard tomorrow that a traveler’s body had been found—I would know myself damned by an authority far higher than yours. Sir.”

“Ah, of course.” Javert scoffed. “We always come back to that. But you are pious only when it suits you. How come your respect for that higher authority did not keep you from theft? How come you would so gleefully lie for years? What has your God to say to that, Jean Valjean?”

A furious, helpless sound escape Valjean, a sob that was almost a howl. His body shook. He didn’t lower his hands.

“A child, Valjean,” Javert continued. “You stole from a child—a little Savoyard, who went hungry because of you. What does your God say to that?”

Valjean bent forward, his body trembling as he wept. This time, there was no talking back, no excuses, and when Javert grabbed hold of his arm and pushed him bodily against the dusty wall, he allowed that too.

“You know what you are. We both know it,” Javert said. “You’re not Madeleine any more. And you know that I expect obedience. Now, I will ask again. Do you have an explanation for your behavior?”

Valjean was still sobbing helplessly. At Javert’s words, he straightened at last, his arms dropping so that Javert could see the wet tracks of tears on his face.

“I know what you want to hear,” Valjean said. “And I know what I am, what I’ve done. I’m a thief. I’m a man who would steal from a child. But I’m not a man who would let another die when it is in my power to help, and if that’s the lesson you want me to learn, you won’t succeed, no matter what you do.”

His eyes blazing, he stared at Javert, his mouth tightly pressed together in a proud display of the sullen stubbornness it seemed impossible to beat out of him.

Javert gritted his teeth. “If that’s how you want to have it, suit yourself. I can see that I’ve been too lenient with you. I wonder that it’s so easy for you to forget the labor in the hulks, the chains, the whip—I feed you my own food, let you sleep in my own bed, and this is the respect you show me?”

“I’m still a man,” Valjean shouted brokenly, pushing against Javert’s arm. “I do whatever you want—haven’t I always? But I won’t apologize for saving a man’s life! What sort of animal do you want me to be—someone who doesn’t run to help when a stranger is in danger? I won’t! Do your worst, but you’ll never succeed!”

“What an infuriating, ungrateful wretch you are,” Javert snarled, harshly gripping Valjean’s shirt as he pushed him back against the wall with his arm across Valjean’s throat. “Very well then, have it your way! I’ll have your respect and your obedience, no matter how!”

His heart pounding in his chest with dark satisfaction, Javert kept staring into Valjean’s obstinate eyes for a long moment. Then he released his coat—only to grab hold of Valjean’s shoulder instead and force him around.

Valjean was still breathing heavily, his breath hitching. A groan escaped him as Javert shoved him back against the wall, but he didn’t fight back.

Javert could barely breathe himself, fury mingling with gratification that it had come to this once more. Perhaps he had been overly indulgent. Perhaps he should have known all along that a man like Jean Valjean couldn’t be contained without chains.

And yet, those weeks with Valjean’s effortless obedience had been so sweet…

No, it wasn’t impossible to teach Valjean manners, but it seemed that it was indeed necessary to reinforce the lesson again and again, no matter how much Javert was willing to reward good behavior.

“Clothes off,” he snapped, then took a step back, releasing Jean Valjean to slap the riding crop impatiently into his hand as he waited.

Despite the anger in his eyes, Valjean obeyed, glaring at Javert as he slung his wet trousers and shirt over a nearby wooden beam with enough force that droplets spattered against the wall.

“There’ll be a day,” he said, furious tears still gleaming in his eyes, “when you’ll know what it’s like to look back at your actions and be filled with such despair that you can hardly bear it.”

“Shut your mouth, Valjean,” Javert said. “I’ve heard enough from you for the day. You want to be a martyr so bad? I can give you something to cry about.”

He grabbed a bare shoulder, feeling hard muscle flex beneath his hand. Despite the immense strength on display before him, Valjean didn’t protest as Javert curtly turned him back around and pushed him against the wall.

Then, still fuming with anger, Javert let the riding crop come down for the first time, with such a force as he’d never had need to use on a horse.

But then, Valjean was right about one thing—although he was as stubborn as a mule, he was no animal. He had reason enough to know better. That he still chose to disobey regardless showed that Valjean only had himself to blame for the hoarse sobs that now escaped him.

The riding crop was short but flexible, the leather snapping against Valjean’s bare, unprotected skin. As Valjean groaned, red lines sprung up, Javert rising the crop again and again to let it come down with a fury that had been building in him all day and at last found an outlet.

Soon Valjean was crying out when the crop bit into the vulnerable skin of his thighs—but outside, the storm was still raging, and the howling of the wind would swallow every sound. Even if it hadn’t—old Father Boulet knew just as well as anyone else in the area who and what Valjean was. He’d have no compassion from him.

“Still feeling insolent?” Javert snarled breathlessly when the riding crop came down once more, leaving a bright red line. Javert raised his arm again, adding another while Valjean sobbed, the muscular buttocks trembling as Javert delivered his discipline without mercy.

Halfway through, he realized how tight his trousers had become; he clenched his jaw and ignored the pulsing of his blood, adding another strike, and another, the flinching of the powerful body and Valjean’s breathless tears more satisfying than any attention to his aching cock could have been at that moment.

At last, when his arm had tired, he dropped the crop and grabbed hold of Valjean’s shoulder instead to roughly pull him back around. Valjean’s eyes were closed, his mouth surrounded by deep lines of pain, his face wet with tears.

Javert laughed softly and raised a hand to trace the lines around Valjean’s mouth, marveling at the man before him. How often had he had him in chains in the guard room? And yet, Valjean seemed a completely different person to the sullen convict in the hulks of Toulon. 

There, his face had been closed, his eyes revealing nothing but a barely contained animal rage. Now, Valjean’s face was a mask of pain, the lines around his eyes and mouth giving everything away and leaving him utterly exposed, vulnerable in a way he’d never been in the hulks.

“You can’t hide anything from me,” Javert murmured as he touched the corner of Valjean’s mouth in fascination. “Don’t even try to pretend otherwise.”

His only answer was another helpless sob, Valjean’s face crumpling as he wept.

Javert was still breathless himself. The earlier bitter frustration that had left him restless all through the day had given way to a strange euphoria. With a smile, he drew his hand across Valjean’s heaving chest. Valjean’s skin was wet with sweat, his brutal strength on full display—and even so he didn’t lift a single finger against Javert.

Javert’s smile widened, his touch turning into a caress.

No, Valjean could be taught. Hadn’t he seen the proof of it day after day during the past months?

“Well? Have you learned your lesson?”

Beneath his hand, Valjean’s heart was hammering against his palm. Valjean stared at him from wet eyes, then squeezed them shut again as he dropped his head in submission.

Javert laughed softly at that answer. “So. What do you have to say about your behavior today? Any explanation?”

“None, sir,” Valjean forced out brokenly.

“You acted without my approval.”

“Yes, sir. I’m sorry, sir.”

There were more tears, the powerful body trembling beneath Javert’s touch.

For a moment, Javert wondered if he could push him further—but perhaps this was lesson enough for the day.

“You will show me respect,” he said. “Do you understand me, Valjean?”

Valjean nodded again, still crying, and Javert could no longer keep himself from leaning in to kiss him, Valjean’s lips salty with tears.

“Good,” Javert murmured when he drew back. “You can get dressed now.”

By the time the storm finally died down, Javert was back up on his feet, idly wandering through the stable to lift a strap of leather here and inspect an old horseshoe there.

Valjean rested on a bale of straw, grateful for the opportunity to lie down on his front and give his aching backside a rest. It was still raining, but the water was no longer being driven so hard against the windows that it sounded as if drums were sounding the attack.

The wind had died, too, and it was quiet in the stable—even the curious goats had settled down.

Valjean watched Javert from where he was resting, feeling strangely at peace. He still ached dully, but after the earlier explosion of Javert’s frustration, it seemed as if the guilt and shame raging within his own chest had left together with the storm clouds.

It was good to simply rest, aware only of the straw beneath him, the rain falling gently outside, and the soft sounds of the animals shifting in their straw.

Idly, Valjean stretched out his hand. When he parted his fingers, the red, round circle burned into his palm was revealed. He considered it slowly, twisting his hand back and forth in the dim light that filled the stable. Then he turned his head back again, resting it on his arms as his eyes followed Javert’s movements.

Javert, it seemed, was no longer full of frustrated energy either, the riding crop abandoned near his wet coat. As Valjean watched, Javert dragged his fingers through the dust covering a horse collar, which seemed to have seen no use in years. Then Javert moved on, taking hold of a bridle hung from a bent nail. It was stiff with disuse, metal jangling as he turned it in idle curiosity.

There was an amused look on Javert’s face when he turned around at last, holding up reins that hadn’t been greased in years. “Sometimes I think I should put a leash on you. Maybe that would help to keep you in line. What do you think, Valjean?”

Valjean was too tired to take the bait, but it seemed that Javert was content even without forcing a confrontation.

“Ah, but would I trust your leash to Delrue? To Gilbert?” Javert exhaled, lips twisting in derision. “Perhaps not. Delrue has too much of a taste for things beyond his station. And Gilbert… well.”

Gilbert seemed dependable enough to Valjean—he had certainly never beaten him for no reason or taken delight in shouting insults at him. He was as good as could be hoped for, perhaps, in an agent of police—which in turn might be why Javert would not trust him with more authority over Valjean.

It did not matter, Valjean reminded himself. Had not Robert given him a promise? In the spring the town would need a new mayor—and it would be Robert whom they would suggest for the honor. If Valjean wanted, he might leave Montreuil then. There would be one of Robert’s farms waiting for him, if he accepted the offer—he’d have a simple, solitary life, far from Javert.

The mere idea seemed impossible as he followed Javert with his eyes. He could barely even imagine what such a life would be like. And what would he tell the people on Robert’s farm? Should he expect them to take orders from a convict? Would he lie again, would he pretend to be a respectable man for a second time while the truth burned in his heart until the guilt and the shame became impossible to bear?

And now, there was the red mark in his palm. What honest man would shake such a hand, with Valjean’s shame plain for all to see?

The jingling of metal tore him from his thoughts. Javert had turned away from the wall with its dusty implements and now came towards Valjean once more. There was a faint smile on his lips as he sat down on the edge of the bale of straw Valjean was resting on.

“I like you better like this,” Javert said softly and reached out to trail his hands through Valjean’s wet hair.

Valjean bore the touch quietly. It was true that it had become easier to allow Javert to touch—even to touch his head, which had once filled him with such instinctive horror that he hadn’t been able to hide it from Javert. But it was true that Javert had never abused that particular weakness. He didn’t think that Javert would. Even now, even after the beating, he wasn’t afraid that Javert would, as other guards once had.

Javert drew his fingers through Valjean’s hair, his thumb tracing along the sensitive skin behind his ear. Then, still smiling, Javert dropped something into the straw in front of Valjean. It made a metallic jingle. 

Valjean frowned, slowly pushing himself up—a part of him sad, even now, to leave behind the soothing stillness that had taken over his mind.

“Go and clean it,” Javert said.

Valjean took hold of the object Javert had put down. It was part of the old horse tack, he realized after a moment—a rusty mouthpiece, the iron bit cold in his hand.

With a frown, he drew his finger over it. Some of the rust came off when he pressed his nail against it—all it would need was a good scrubbing with a metal brush. Then he frowned.

The bit was like none he had ever held before. Instead of a smooth bar of iron, this mouthpiece had strange protrusions. Spikes were sticking up from the bit, the tips rounded enough so they would not immediately tear a horse’s mouth, but still painful without a doubt as soon as a horse thought to fight the reins even for a moment.

The earlier peace that had settled in his mind made way for a sudden sickness. What need had Javert for such an implement?

“Surely you will not want to use it for your mare?” he said hesitantly. “She’s a good horse; you won’t—”

“It’s not for Noiraude.”

Valjean flinched.

“Sir,” he said, the ache of his body forgotten as he pushed himself up, “please, don’t hurt Doré. He’s a good horse; you know that. Hurt me if you have to punish me.”

Javert exhaled with obvious amusement. “It’s not for Doré either. No need for that. He’s well-trained—eager to obey. The way I like it.”

Valjean swallowed, looking down again at the bit in his hand. A cruel implement to use on a horse. But to use it for—no. Surely Javert couldn’t mean that. How would a man take that into his mouth without injuring himself?

Javert’s smile widened as he reached out again, his thumb pressing gently down on Valjean’s bottom lip. “The way I like you. You still think you can fight me, even after all this time.”

“I have given you everything,” Valjean said, his heart shuddering in his chest. “You have everything you want from me.”

“Not everything,” Javert murmured. “Your willing surrender. If I held out this bit, would you open your mouth and take it out of my hand?”

Valjean looked down again. The iron was covered in rust—but even cleaned, it would be a tool of torture.

He squeezed his eyes shut, his shoulders drooping.

“Every time I give in—will you merely ask for more?” Despair rose up in Valjean once again, drowning the rare moment of quiet that had filled his mind earlier. How much more could Javert demand? How much more could he give up? “Is there no end to it?”

“Clean that iron,” Javert said after a moment, firm but without heat, as if it was a task like any other.

And what else was there to do but obey?

Valjean rose, ignoring the ache of the red welts the riding crop had left. Javert gestured to the wall he had studied earlier, and as Valjean made his way over there, he found a metal brush.

At least the task allowed him to remain standing. The thought filled him with the heat of humiliation, and he was almost grateful for the work he had been given, for it allowed him to spend the next hour quietly scrubbing at the rusty bit, his gaze focused only on the dusty table beneath him.

Javert left him to work in peace. It was still raining lightly. Every now and then, one of the horses nickered, missing the comfort of their own stable and the oats that would have awaited there.

By the time Valjean dipped the bit into a bucket of water and drew it out, critically twisting it back and forth, the sound of wind and rain had almost completely abated.

The bit gleamed, the iron free of rust at last. The mouthpiece was old, the iron scratched—but it was iron, sturdy and dependable, ready to be used once more. It would surely serve to torment another dozen horses in its lifetime.

Haltingly, he approached Javert, who had seated himself on the straw where Valjean had curled up after his earlier punishment.

“Here, sir,” Valjean said quietly as he held it out.

Javert took it from his fingers and turned it this way and that, the wet iron sparkling even in the sparse light.

“Good,” Javert said after a moment. Then he held it out, resting in the center of his palm—the way one would present it to a horse.

Valjean stared at the spiky protrusions, his stomach twisting.

“Well?” Javert said after a moment. “Will you take it into your mouth?”

Valjean swallowed, misery rising in him once more. There truly was no way for him to win—not even by giving in, by surrendering his body to Javert the way he had demanded. There’d always be more.

He shook his head and took an instinctive step back at the thought of the spikes digging deep into the corners of his mouth, hitting his teeth.

“Very well.” The corners of Javert’s mouth twitched, but he slipped the bit into his pocket without further comment.

Valjean’s knees went weak with sudden relief. Whatever Javert thought of him, he was not defying him out of sheer stubbornness. Valjean was exhausted—it had been a long, hard day of work, after which he’d braved the elements and clung to the muddy side of the steep riverbank by a root to save a man. And after that, he’d borne the discipline Javert had chosen to deliver without complaint.

When Javert said nothing else, voiced no further demands, Valjean, with a cautious look at Javert, sank to his knees at last. He rested his arms on the bale of straw and cradled his head on his arms. From the corner of his eye, he could see that Javert was watching him with faint amusement—but Javert did not stir, and even though the earlier feeling of peace seemed to have slipped beyond Valjean’s grasp, gray exhaustion filled the void it had left behind. It worked just as well to dull the aching shame in his heart.

***

It was dark, outside and within the stable, when Valjean was finally roused from the uneasy slumber he must have fallen into.

“Get up,” Javert said, his hand on Valjean’s shoulder.

Blearily, Valjean stumbled to his feet. Javert’s hand trailed down his back, settling on his backside, and Valjean winced, heat rising to his face. Javert exhaled in satisfaction.

“Get the horses ready. I’ll see how that Englishman fares. And I believe I owe Father Boulet a handful of coins for his old tack.”

Instinctively, Valjean’s eyes went to Javert’s pocket. There was the telltale jingling sound again as Javert went towards the door, and Valjean hastily turned away, glad for the distraction of the task he’d been given.

The horses were no longer wet, although their legs were still dirty with dried mud. Valjean quickly curried them as well as he was able to, although it did not make much of a difference, given the state they had been in. Had he brought a horse out of the stable like this in Montreuil, he would without a doubt have felt the riding crop again.

The horses needed to be washed, but there was no time for that now—and riding back home over muddy roads would leave them just as dirty in any case.

Valjean took hold of the bridle. The Englishman’s gelding turned his ears back, kicking the wall of the box in warning. Valjean did not hold it against him—he, too, would have been outraged at being forced back out into the rain after such an accident.

Nevertheless, he firmly stepped towards the chestnut horse, wrapping one arm around the skittish gelding’s neck. With the other, he held out the bridle—presenting the bit resting on his palm, then holding it lightly against the soft muzzle.

The gelding grumbled with dissatisfaction, exhaling pointedly before he opened his mouth and allowed Valjean to put the bit into place before easing the headpiece over his ears.

After that, it seemed that the horse had resigned himself to the fact that his day was not yet over, for he made no sign of protest when Valjean saddled him.

Noiraude, on the other hand, seemed eager to escape the dark, unfriendly stable, for she knew that her home wasn’t far—and neither were the hay and the oats awaiting her. She breathed warm breath against Valjean’s palm before gently taking the bit into her mouth, and Valjean felt himself inexplicably blushing as he thought of Javert’s demands.

Hastily, he saddled her too, then led both horses outside, where Javert was already waiting with Cobbett, who seemed much recovered.

Javert held a lamp in his hand, which he must have taken from Father Boulet—not without payment, Valjean was certain. Still, it was dark now, and though the light of the moon might have sufficed to travel along a road they knew well under ordinary circumstances, they did not know what other damages the storm had caused.

By the time they made it to the bridge, they could see lights in the distance. Peering into the darkness, Javert raised his own lamp high. Soon enough, three of Javert’s agents came their way, their coats wet and their horses just as muddy as their own.

“Sir,” Gilbert said, giving Javert an embarrassed look. “We thought to set out as soon as we received your message, but then the storm reached Montreuil. The wind lifted the shingles from a roof and nearly killed Mother Mouton, whose son was missing. We found him in the inn, of course, but by then—”

“That’s enough, Gilbert,” Javert said grimly. “As you can see, all is well here. Light our way.”

“I see you caught Valjean?” Gilbert asked, obviously eager to find out what had come to pass.

Valjean lowered his gaze as he felt Javert’s agents turn their eyes on him.

“He assisted this Englishman, who had an accident by the bridge,” Javert said curtly. “That is all. Now move along; I am already quite wet.”

“That man saved me,” Valjean heard Corbett say when he passed Gilbert. “A most amazing thing. Truly, I cannot thank him enough—he risked his own life—”

Embarrassed, Valjean lengthened his stride to catch up with Javert and put some distance between them.

“It’s always the same with you, isn’t it?” Javert murmured after a moment, looking down at him. “First Fantine, now some stranger in the woods. It’s not going to work on me, Valjean. I know what you are. You’re no innocent martyr, and you know it too.”

Clenching his hand, Valjean lowered his head, then nodded.

“I know it, sir,” he said quietly. “I know it well. But even being what I am, I wouldn’t let an innocent man die.”

The Englishman’s papers were in order. Mr. Cobbett had come from England with his horse, to amuse himself by traveling through France, it seemed. He spoke French well, and the route of travel in his passport was a sensible one, signed and stamped for Paris by the French ambassador in London.

“How long will you stay in Montreuil?” Javert asked, giving the man’s horse a thoughtful look.

“I had planned to leave in the morning, of course, but I think a day of rest is in order.” Cobbett smiled sheepishly. “An inauspicious beginning to my journey. But then, perhaps it is for the best that the worst happens at the start, so that I shall fully appreciate this journey in the coming weeks. And of course, if this had happened anywhere else, I might be dead—or perhaps still clinging to that cliff, waiting for help that might never come. This man is a miracle. I owe you my life, sir,” he said, turning towards Valjean. “If there is anything I can do for you…” 

Valjean, in turn, seemed uncomfortable at the attention—or perhaps it was merely the lingering effects of the riding crop, which had succeeded, at least, in driving the sullen mood out of him.

“Nothing, sir,” Valjean said firmly. “I didn’t do it for any reward. If you will…” He hesitated for a moment, and Javert waited, curious what Valjean would come up with now.

“If you see a man or a woman in need,” Valjean said, avoiding Javert’s eyes, “perhaps you might help them, as you have been helped. That would be greater thanks than any payment.”

Javert could not quite suppress the smile tugging at his lips.

Of course.

They left Cobbett behind at the inn, where the stable-lad promised to take good care of his horse. Valjean followed Javert home, taking hold of Noiraude when they reached the stable by the station-house.

“Leave her to him,” Javert said, nodding at the stable-lad. “Rub her dry, and see to it that she’s well fed.”

Valjean followed without protest when Javert led him inside instead.

“Make a fire,” Javert demanded once they were inside his apartment, watching as Valjean knelt in front of the stove, adding enough wood to keep it burning brightly for a while.

“Heat water. Then come undress me.”

Even though Valjean was soaked through as well, his clothes dripping water, he did not linger in front of the fire. Javert watched, gratified by the way with which Valjean moved to obey his orders instantly, with no hesitation, no rebellious looks.

While the water was heating on the stove, Valjean came to carefully peel the sodden coat off him, draping it carefully over a chair by the stove so that it could dry. Next came Javert’s trousers, then his waistcoat and shirt, all put away with care, until Javert stood bare before Valjean. The stove had begun to give off heat, but when Valjean turned away from him to fetch the heated water, Javert caught hold of Valjean’s arm.

“Wait.”

Valjean raised his eyes to him uncertainly. He was dripping onto the floor, his shirt clinging to his chest, his shoulders drooping. Whatever had possessed him earlier to make him confront Javert appeared to have vanished. He seemed utterly defeated; instead of the earlier anger, Javert could see nothing but sadness in his eyes.

“Hold still,” Javert said softly, and then began to strip the wet clothes from Valjean’s body, his hands gliding appreciatively over the firm chest.

Valjean bore it all with his head lowered. His skin was cold, and after Javert had undressed him, he drew him into his arms, his hands rubbing Valjean’s damp back. Valjean stiffened at first, his hands rising, then falling, as if uncertain what to make of this. In the end, he simply surrendered, his head sinking forward until his forehead brushed Javert’s shoulder while Javert rubbed some warmth back into him.

“Now fetch the water,” Javert said after long minutes had passed, and Valjean obeyed quietly. 

Watching him move with such easy obedience, without the smallest trace of sullenness or anger, was strangely soothing. Even the thought of Gisquet no longer filled Javert with frustration. Indeed, it was hard to think of anything but the sight before him, the strong body that did his bidding so willingly, the calm surrender that was such a marked difference from Valjean’s fury and moodiness.

Even now, the marks the riding crop had left on Valjean’s skin were of a bright red, clearly visible, and the sight stirred something in Javert again. 

Valjean knelt at his feet, placing the bowl he’d filled with warm water on the ground, unperturbed by the sight of Javert’s arousal when he stood with the wet rag in his hand. He raised it to Javert’s chest—only to freeze with uncertainty when Javert took the cloth from his hand and proceeded to wash Valjean instead.

The warm water helped to chase away the cold, as did the stove. By the time he had washed what remained of the mud from Valjean’s body, his skin was no longer cold to the touch, and Valjean was no longer as tense as if he expected another beating. Javert hadn’t spared the well-disciplined skin of his thighs and backside, but although Valjean had flinched, he had put up no protest.

Javert drew his wet hand over Valjean’s neck and pulled him close again, his other hand stroking up the backside of his thigh. He could feel the welts against his palm, hot and slightly raised, and the memory of the crop coming down onto the muscular body made his arousal throb with hunger once more.

Even now, Valjean was quiet, at ease beneath his hand—weary and sad, perhaps, but no longer fighting him so desperately as he had before. Javert exhaled, then drew his fingers tenderly through Valjean’s hair, which had grown long enough now that the tips began to curl.

“Now wash me,” he murmured. “Then you can go to bed.”

Valjean left his embrace slowly—reluctant, perhaps, to leave the warmth of his body behind. He washed Javert silently, and despite his obvious exhaustion he was as thorough as Javert demanded.

Once they were clothed in dry shirts at last, Javert nodded towards the bed. He was still hungry, but too exhausted to fetch food or to send Valjean for it. Instead, he cut some of the bread left from their breakfast and piled it onto a plate together with several pieces of cheese. The stove was burning brightly now, the room pleasantly warm at last, and Javert made use of it to quickly heat some wine.

When he turned back to the bed, he could see that Valjean had followed his orders, although he still looked uncertain, following Javert’s every move.

Javert poured the hot wine into a pewter tankard, then placed it on his bedside table together with the plate before he slipped beneath the warm covers. He took hold of the wine.

“Here. Drink.”

Valjean drank slowly, still watching him from the corner of his eye. When Valjean handed the tankard back, he hesitated for a moment, but then he said, “Thank you,” with quiet gratefulness.

The sound and the sight of Valjean so subdued made heat curl in Javert’s stomach, need thick and heavy in his blood. At the same time, it was true that he was tired—it had been a long, exhausting day.

Javert drank the hot wine, feeling warmth fill his chest, then took hold of a piece of cheese and offered it to Valjean. This time, there was no hesitation. Valjean took it from his fingers, his lips soft and warm as they brushed Javert’s fingertips. He fed Valjean a piece of bread as well before he took hold of another piece of cheese and slipped it between his own lips.

Javert was hungrier than he’d realized; the moment the sharp, pale cheese touched his tongue, his stomach growled.

Valjean had watched him, a hint of wariness even in his quiet surrender. Now, his eyes still on Javert, he reached out for the plate and took hold of a chunk of bread. For a moment, he hesitated. Then he raised it to Javert’s lips, who took it from Valjean’s fingers with astonishment. Something twisted in his stomach again, his shaft still thick with satisfaction, pulsing with tired need—but he was content to ignore it for now, feeling the thrill of a man who watched an unbroken colt take a first step towards him.

Javert took up another piece of cheese and fed it to Valjean, watching as Valjean’s tongue came out to moisten his lip. A moment later, Valjean slowly reached out for the plate again himself. This time, he chose a morsel of cheese, raising it to Javert’s lips again, who took it from Valjean’s fingers.

Javert didn’t speak, still half afraid that a single word might suffice to break the spell. But even once the bread and the cheese was gone, the plate placed aside, Valjean remained silent. He still looked subdued, but it seemed not so much sadness now but rather a quiet thoughtfulness. Had Valjean come to the realization at last that it need not be the way it had been?

Javert felt as if he’d been given a taste of Valjean’s true surrender for the first time. And although he couldn’t deny that there was pleasure in forcing Valjean to submit to his will, to have it freely offered up to him with the respect he deserved—that seemed to sate a deeper hunger.

Javert turned aside to snuff out the candle, then settled down in the bed. Valjean was where he’d been, warm and solid—his body relaxed, not tensed, when Javert drew him into his arm. Javert’s arousal was still aching insistently, and after several moments had silently passed in the darkness, he felt a questioning hand slide up his thigh.

Javert exhaled with pleasure when Valjean touched him.

He could have had Valjean tonight, if he wanted to—but there was something immensely satisfying about the touch of the rough palm, offered willingly instead of the pained surrender Valjean usually offered, as if it was Javert who had forced him into his bed.

In the darkness, he curved his hand around Valjean’s head, burying his fingers in the short hair before he brushed his mouth against Valjean’s, sliding his tongue into his mouth at the same time as Valjean’s grasp around him tightened.

***

The next morning was a Sunday, and despite his usual habits, Javert slept until well past sunrise. Valjean, too, was still asleep when Javert at last awoke. The storm was gone although the weather outside was cold and gray, and for long minutes, Javert remained abed, enjoying the sensation of the firm, muscular body relaxed against him in sleep.

Gently, he ran a hand up and down Valjean’s back. Even through the fabric of Valjean’s shirt he could feel the scars the whip had left long ago.

Strange that a mere riding crop could do what the brutal whip never had. And Valjean had cried yesterday—he, who’d never cried when they’d whipped him in the hulks.

Javert could pinpoint the exact moment when Valjean realized where he was and how late it was, for he sat up with a shocked expression on his face. It brought a smile to Javert’s lips, especially when Valjean’s gaze instinctively trailed down his body.

“Don’t worry,” Javert said generously. “You’re forgiven, just this once. I would have been cross if you’d woken me at sunrise after that night.”

“I can still…” Valjean gestured at Javert’s lower body.

Javert chuckled. “I’ll find something else for you to do later,” he murmured. “For now, you can wash and dress me. And then see to breakfast; I am famished.”

***

The morning was already halfway over by the time Javert left his apartment, Valjean walking by his side. The aftereffects of the storm were still visible—here a cart had turned over, there a pair of trousers hung from a rain gutter, as though the storm had snatched it from a clothes line somewhere and dropped it once it tired of its burden.

There were still large puddles in the marketplace, and fewer people out on the street as there would be on a Sunday.

By all rights, Valjean should be back in the barracks, to make use of his Sunday as he pleased, but Javert found he was disinclined to let him go after how the past evening had gone—and Valjean in turn seemed content to follow where he was led with that same pleasing obedience of the past night.

“I wonder how that Englishman fares,” Javert said half to himself. “That was a fine horse he had, but it took quite a tumble.”

Without asking Valjean for his opinion, he changed his direction, and mere minutes later, they could see for themselves that the gelding had come to no harm. The English horse stood tied to the wall in the courtyard of the inn, its owner watching the stable-lad with a displeased expression.

“Don’t you know how to properly groom a horse?” Cobbett said. “Brush him, will you? Do it again, until his coat gleams.”

The boy, a lad of perhaps ten, had washed the horse, its legs still slightly damp. Now, with a scowl, he took up the currycomb once more while Cobbett watched, arms crossed in front of his chest. It was not until Javert greeted him that he realized that he was no longer alone. As soon as he saw who approached, the frown on his face changed into a genuine smile, and he stepped forward, moving right past Javert as he grabbed Valjean’s hand to shake it in delight.

“I am twice as glad now that I chose to stay for another night, sir—I was hoping I might see you again. I never had a chance to truly thank you. Please, will you do me the honor to dine with me?”

Amused, Javert watched—had Valjean truly intended to save Cobbett because of some scheme to prove himself a hero deserving of a pardon, there was no sign of it now on his face. Instead, Valjean looked almost embarrassed, as if Cobbett’s praise shamed him, writhing under it the way he had sometimes writhed beneath Javert’s gaze.

When Valjean sought out Javert’s eyes, color in his cheeks and his eyes wide and uncertain, Javert thought he understood. Valjean was waiting for the moment when Javert would take advantage of this chance to inform Cobbett of Valjean’s true identity.

Under normal circumstances, Javert would have delighted in informing Cobbett of the full measure of Valjean’s crimes—the man might be thankful now, but would he be just as eager to hear that he had invited a convict to dine with him?

Still, Javert couldn’t take his eyes off Valjean. It was hard to forget the way Valjean had taken the food from his fingers—the way Valjean himself had reached out hesitantly for him. All evening, all morning, Valjean had watched him with that same uncertain obedience. Even now, the mere thought of the crop coming down on those powerful thighs made Javert ache.

And for all that Valjean had wept, when he’d never wept in the hulks, he’d been well-behaved afterward, with none of the usual sullen resentment.

Perhaps, for once, he could see where this would go. Javert could not deny that he was curious—would Valjean lie, with Javert right there? Valjean, obstinate though he might be, was surely not that foolish. And yet, he had clung to that pretense of being a respectable citizen for so long... Now that Cobbett offered a chance to escape infamy by feeding him a lie, would Valjean prove strong enough to resist that temptation?

At its heart, it was a temptation Javert knew well after all—better than most.

Valjean looked at Javert, deference to him now an ingrained habit that had nearly become instinct. Javert watched him calmly but remained silent until at last Valjean’s gaze returned to Cobbett, who watched him in expectation.

Perhaps this was merely another lesson Javert wanted to teach. Valjean had not realized it at first, but to be forced to listen to Javert list his crimes to a third was, while shameful, bearable. To have to recount his shame of his own volition, to the first man who had looked at him with gratitude and extended a hand in friendship since Robert...

He quailed at the thought of seeing the warmth in Cobbett’s eyes turn to fear.

And yet he had not saved Cobbett because he wanted gratitude. The man had been in danger. It was as simple as that. Valjean had been prideful once, and where had that led him?

He might not be in agreement with Javert often, but it was true that humility suited a man like him better.

“I fear that my time is not my own,” Valjean said and gave Javert a deferential nod. “That decision rests with Monsieur Javert.”

It had not hurt as much as he had thought it would to say it—it was a relief, in fact, to shift the burden of his sins back to Javert.

“How is that?” Cobbett asked curiously. “Does he work for you, sir?”

“His labor belongs to the town,” Javert said, “but I am indeed in charge of his time.”

“Well then, surely it is decided! I have not forgotten who it was who came to our rescue and pulled me up—if it is in your power to make it so, then please do me the honor to dine with me tonight and to bring Monsieur Valjean here.”

“Very well,” Javert said after a moment—sounding perfectly pleasant. “I have to admit, I’m curious to hear more about your journey. How did your horse take to the ship?”

Now Cobbett laughed. “He’s a brave little horse, but you should have heard him scream when they lifted him into the air to stow him away on the ship!”

With a smile, Cobbett turned towards his horse, only to frown. “Where has that boy gone to now? Run off—and with my horse still in need of grooming. Is that the way it is done here? Merely splash some water on the horse and declare it done? Look at him, sir—would you call that a properly groomed horse?”

Javert stepped forward to critically run a gloved hand along the horse’s flank, then lifted it, his lips twisting into a look of displeasure.

“I would not, and I would expect better service myself. The boy is lazy.” He snapped his fingers, and Valjean came forward.

“What do you think, Valjean? Would you call that properly groomed?”

Valjean ran his own hand over the horse’s coat, the gelding’s body warm beneath his touch. The stable boy had washed yesterday’s mud off the horse and had given him a quick curry and brush, but there were indeed tiny particles of dried mud and dust clinging to his him still. It made the animal’s coat look dull; Javert would never have stood for it.

“No, sir,” Valjean said, although he did not add that there were more horses waiting for the boy’s attention, and more duties, too. For all he knew Cobbett would have paid the lad well for extra efforts—but would that chance be worth it to a boy who was certain to incur his master’s ire about horses that had not been watered or a yard that had not been swept?

“Well then, see to it. We cannot let Master Cobbett here leave with the wrong impression of this country’s standards of cleanliness, can we?”

“No, sir,” Valjean said with a faint smile on his lips. He could not say what he had expected when Javert had steered them towards the inn, but of all possible outcomes, this was one he did not mind so much. Of course it was still possible that Javert was merely saving the moment of humiliation for later to savor it properly—but if that was so, there was nothing Valjean could do. For now, taking up the currycomb the boy had abandoned was no great humiliation at all—indeed, compared to the work he had known once, there was a pleasure in the simple, repetitive motion and the warm, living being that calmly surrendered itself into his care.

Dust filled the air as he curried the horse with firm, circular motions, exerting enough pressure that the horse exhaled heavily, his head sinking low as he relaxed. Slowly, Valjean worked his way from the horse’s neck along his flanks to his powerful haunches, sparing the legs. A cloud of dust arose when he cleaned the currycomb after every handful of strokes, the horse exhaling again with a satisfied grumble when he’d finally worked his way all the way to the muscles of the beast’s hind legs.

Next, he took up a brush with firm bristles that the boy had left behind as well. He’d given mane and tail a perfunctory brush; Valjean now brushed them carefully, strand by strand, until the mane was glossy and he had worked out every small tangle in the tail with his fingers.

Then he began to brush the horse’s coat, again starting at the neck and working his way forward from there. Carefully, he worked his way down the legs this time, which had not seen the currycomb—although at least the lad had made certain to wash the mud from them. By the time Valjean had carefully made his way along the horse’s body down to the hind legs, the horse was dozing in the sunlight, his chestnut coat shining.

Valjean cleaned the brush one last time, then lifted the horse’s head, gently brushing down his nose and along his cheeks before paying attention to the forelock as well. When he turned to check on Javert, he saw that he was still lost in discussion with Cobbett—and Mayor Regnier, who had joined the two men.

Valjean turned away to hide his smile. Mayor Regnier would not usually be seen exchanging friendly words with Javert in the street—Regnier had as many aspirations as Javert, and they would not be served by being friendly with a man of Javert’s background. Still, it seemed that saving a rich Englishman’s life was proving more fortuitous for Javert than it had been for Valjean.

No one was going to beat Javert for daring to save a life. Then why would he not admit that what Valjean had done was the right thing?

To distract himself from that train of thought, Valjean took up a clean cloth. He ran it slowly all over the horse’s coat until even the last remnants of dust were gone, wiping his ears and his nose with them as well before he took a step back.

The gelding shone as if an officer were to mount him for parade. Valjean did not think that even Javert could find fault in him this time.

A moment later, Javert came forward. Once more he critically ran his hand along the horse’s back. This time, when he lifted it, his glove was still a pristine black, unmarred by dust or dirt.

Javert inclined his head, then turned back to Cobbett. Regnier, it seemed, had left again—busy, perhaps, with whatever machinations would see him move to Paris soon.

“What do you say, sir? This is the standard of grooming I expect for my own horse.”

Cobbett smiled as he reached out to stroke the gelding’s neck. “Indeed, it is mine as well! Tell me, what is it I have to say to get them to understand that this is what I expect?”

“Pay the stable lad well in advance,” Valjean said without waiting for Javert to allow him to speak, “and make him understand that there will be more if the horse is cleaned to your standards.”

“Ah,” Cobbett said, “I fear that won’t avail me much once I leave your beautiful little town. Ever since I disembarked at Calais, the grooming has been neglectful. But I apologize, sir—you saved my life, and yet here you are, doing work when I intended to thank you! You must think me most ungrateful.”

Valjean shifted his shoulders uneasily, not quite daring a look at Javert. Surely Javert would not save the final humiliation for the evening? Was it perhaps merely a test—did Javert want Valjean to volunteer the information on his own?

Finally Javert came to his rescue. “There is one last thing you should know,” Javert said, “before you dine with him in public, and as the chief of police of this town it is my duty to inform you that this man is an indentured servant—not for debt, but because of a criminal past. I will assure you that you are quite safe—as I said before, he is under my direct supervision, but you will be dining with a convict if you still want to go ahead with it.”

Blood rushed to Valjean’s face, and he hastily turned away, pressing a hand against the horse’s reassuringly warm flank. A part of him was grateful, even now—for Javert, this was an unexpectedly merciful way of revealing Valjean’s shame, and it was easier to bear than if he had been forced to face Cobbett and make the confession himself.

“A convict,” he heard Cobbett declare behind him, sounding in equal parts shocked and curious. “Surely not—the man saved my life! What crime did he commit?”

“He was in the hulks for theft—a loaf of bread.” Even now, there was a tinge of amusement in Javert’s voice at the recollection. “Later, when he was released, he hid from the police and settled here in Montreuil under a new name. If you had arrived just a year earlier, you would have found him in a different position. He was the mayor of this town. Fortunately, I knew him in the hulks and recognized him immediately when I took the position as chief of police.”

“The mayor!” Cobbett repeated, sounding intrigued. Valjean still did not dare to turn around and face him.

“And he stole a loaf of bread, you say? I shall have no need to fear him then—there will be bread aplenty for all of us tonight, I promise.”

Cobbett laughed, as if the matter was settled—as if all of Valjean’s shame and guilt could be summed up so easily and forgiven so quickly.

Guilt churning in his stomach, Valjean at last turned around.

“That is not all, sir,” he said quietly. “What Inspector Javert left out is that after my release from the hulks, I stole again. A coin of forty sous, from a child.”

“A greater crime than the theft of some bread,” Cobbett agreed, looking at him thoughtfully. “You must have been hungry back then?”

Much of the past was gone, worn away by the unrelenting grindstone that was the hulks of Toulon on a man’s mind. The past was little more than a gray haze, a dim memory of the gaunt faces of children who had to be long dead.

Valjean nodded quietly, then thought of the meal he had been served in Digne. “But I was not hungry when I took the coin.”

“Well then,” Cobbett said, “you stole from a child once, and yesterday, you saved a man’s life at the risk of your own. As far as I am concerned, that makes you a convict I am more than happy to dine with. It is decided then?”

Valjean looked at Javert, who inclined his head in agreement.

“You are very generous, sir. I’m looking forward to hearing more about your travels.”

***

A table had been set for them in an alcove at the back of the inn. Valjean was not certain whether Cobbett had wanted some privacy, given that he was to dine with a convict, or had been able to intuit that Valjean would be embarrassed to be the center of attention in the inn where many of the town’s notables dined.

In either case, while many eyes had followed him as he entered the inn behind Javert, he was out of earshot of most of the crowd when he took a seat, and glad for it.

“I thought that this might be suited better for our purposes than a table by the fire,” Cobbett said as he shook his hand. “I hope you will not mind it? You see, I intend to write a report on my travels, to help others intending to travel through France. It is almost impossible to talk out there; earlier, I was merely inquiring out of interest as to the price of one of those fine cows I saw out on the fields, yet no one would answers my questions. They all wanted to know about my little mishap in the forest last night.”

“One of the milk cows, sir?” Valjean said, who had often been glad to be able to escape into talk about livestock and the harvest when his duties as mayor had forced him into contact with people. “It will surely fetch sixty francs if it is a good cow.”

“Really,” Cobbett said. “What about horses? Do not think that I failed to notice what a fine beast you rode last night, Inspector! These fields must breed fine horses indeed. You would not see our police equipped with such an animal.”

Javert smiled faintly. “Ah, that is something I have to thank the past mayor’s generosity for. I always used to wonder at his generosity; well, not for long, because it quickly became clear to me that he was hiding something. But it is a fine animal indeed, sir, and I do not think that you will encounter another like her in the service of the police, unless you were to visit the stables of the prefecture in Paris and inspect the chief inspector’s own horse.”

“Perhaps you merely have an eye for horses.” Cobbett smiled at Valjean. “I apologize again for making you do the stable lad’s work; I fear I was so cross at his laziness that I quite forgot my manners, and that although you saved me from certain death. I should have offered to do your own work instead; that would have been a much better show of gratitude.”

“If you keep your promise to me,” Valjean said, “I will be grateful. And if, in your travels…”

He hesitated a moment, acutely aware of Javert’s presence. But then, what difference did it make if Javert heard of his regrets? It had never made a difference so far.

“If you meet a Savoyard by the name of Petit-Gervais who was once robbed by a man near Digne, please give to him whatever you would like to give to me. That promise is all the thanks I need.”

He could feel Javert’s gaze on him—it was heavy, quietly amused, but for once the weight of it felt comfortable.

Javert knew the crime he had committed, after all. The last night had proved that. And although he had railed against Javert’s iron hand, in the end, they both knew what Valjean had done—and they both knew that such a sin could not be atoned for, except by a punishment equal to the crime he had committed. Saving a stranger’s life made no difference at all. Javert did not understand much about him, but he did understand that, and the knowledge of it was a comfort.

Cobbett dined them well. He had taken a room in Montreuil’s finest inn, where Javert hadn’t had much occasion to sit and dine.

Even had he wanted to spend such a large sum on dinner and wine, someone like Javert wouldn’t be welcome here. Had he been a wealthy foreigner like Mr. Cobbett, perhaps—a man from Saint-Domingue who’d made a fortune in sugar, sent to study law in Paris, dressed in a fine coat and riding an even finer horse— that was one thing, even for a man like him who stood out wherever he went by the color of his skin.

But a man of his background? A man who’d come from the hulks of Toulon just as Jean Valjean had, as every citizen of Montreuil knew? A man whose own parents had been criminals?

No, Javert had no place in this inn, and he knew it well.

Still, he dined in finer inns now than he had in Toulon. And in time—in Paris, if all went as he intended it would—inns like this would be open for him, for his parentage would make no difference when the title he carried was that of chief inspector of the prefecture.

But for now, he would be content with Cobbett’s invitation. It was a taste of what was to come: the company of well-dressed, well-mannered men who would treat him as one of their own—eventually without the need to first prove himself by saving their life.

Javert emptied his glass of wine, and Cobbett immediately poured him another, smiling as he took hold of his pencil again to hastily scribble a note down into the little notebook he seemed to carry everywhere he went.

“A franc and a half to stable my horse tonight—two francs for accommodation for myself—I might have chosen a cheaper establishment, of course, but after the past night! No, no, I was quite happy here in my bedchamber last night. With the exception of the grooming of my horse, of course—I shall put your suggestion to use in the next town, sir, but I’m rather doubtful it will work; best, perhaps, to prepare any reader of my journey that they can expect to have a wet horse if they ask for it to be groomed.”

Javert smiled a little to himself as Cobbett continued to scribble down notes, muttering to himself. Valjean was eating quietly. The fare was good—better than what Javert was habitually served, though not by much. Still, it seemed that Valjean was not overly appreciative of the roast goose that graced their table, served with the apples and prunes it had been stuffed with, and a bowl of potatoes the landlady had proudly served them, because, as she declared while beaming at them, she knew that all Englishmen loved their potatoes.

Javert preferred a good slice of the baker’s fine white bread to mop up the rich juices of the goose—potatoes were a bland vegetable he had never felt any fondness for, and he was surprised to hear that they were prized highly in England.

He turned to look at Valjean, who was still eating quietly, as though it made no difference to him whether he was eating an Englishman’s potatoes, a roast goose or the beans of the hulks.

His glass of wine was still almost full, Javert noted. He waited until Valjean raised his eyes to him, then nodded at his glass.

“Drink your wine,” he said quietly.

Valjean’s hand went out to it and he lifted it to his lips. Had he merely awaited permission?

What a puzzling man Valjean was. Just yesterday he had shouted at Javert; today he was as obedient as Javert could wish for, as pleasant company as Javert could expect even in the best inn of the town.

What had changed? He had been forced to discipline him yesterday, that was true—but he had been forced to do so before, and while it often improved Valjean’s manners, it was rare to find him so pleasantly deferential, with none of the martyr’s sullenness.

If it had not been the crop, then—which was in any case hardly an especially effective tool of chastisement—what else could it be?

As Cobbett muttered something about the price of sows as he continued to write in his notebook, his own wine forgotten, Javert thought back to Valjean’s tears of the past night. For all that he had shouted at Javert, he had ceased to fight once Javert reminded him of the theft of the coin. Likewise, Valjean had brought up the Savoyard twice today alone.

Could it truly be guilt about his crimes? Valjean had never seemed to accept his guilt before—not for the laughable crime that had landed him in the hulks for nineteen years, nor for the years of lies and deception in Montreuil.

Perhaps it was good to know that he could feel shame and remorse—but how strange that it should be for the theft of forty sous, for the firing of a dishonest woman, and not for the years of stolen power and the mountain of lies that had brought a whole town into disrepute.

“Drink, sir,” Cobbett said cheerfully when he looked up from his little notebook at last, cheeks flushed with excitement. “Please. I’m afraid I’m a terrible host—but don’t you think it is interesting that the price of a colt in Amiens is three hundred francs when near Briarre, it will only sell for two hundred?”

Again Valjean’s gaze went to Javert first, who gave him another small nod, watching as Valjean raised his glass again.

There was no reason Valjean shouldn’t drink Cobbett’s wine. He had saved a man’s life, after all—no matter how stubborn Valjean thought him, Javert didn’t think it a crime to save a man, especially one like Cobbett, who patronized Montreuil’s finest inn. Indeed, if word were to travel, if Cobbett mentioned Javert’s name when his travels took him to Paris, it could only help Javert’s own ambitions, although he doubted that there was much of a chance that Cobbett would run into the prefect of police.

“How about your home, sir?” Javert asked when Cobbett finally looked up from his notes again. “I’ve been admiring your gelding, but would it not have been more convenient to buy a horse here, or to rent one?”

“Had I wanted convenience, I’m told I could have traveled your country by posting-chaise in a fraction of the time, and probably saved some money, too.” Cobbett laughed again. “But I prefer to go at my own pace, and my own horse suits me well enough. Indeed, I doubt that there is as much fascinating conversation to be had in the posting-chaise.”

“You would be safe from storm and thunder,” Javert pointed out, amused.

“Ah, but what an adventure!” Cobbett’s face was flushed. “Just imagine, sir—to slide down a cliff, to find a stone to cling to at the last moment, to be saved by a brave man who risked his own life!”

Cobbett was beaming at Valjean, who hunched his shoulders uncomfortably. Javert smiled to see it.

What puzzle Valjean was. Still heartbroken about some Savoyard, and yet ostensibly unwilling to accept the gratitude of a man like Cobbett. The strangest thing was that Javert couldn’t think of anything Valjean might gain from this display—whereas he could have gained from accepting Cobbett’s gratitude. 

“Come, sir; have some more wine.”

Cobbett refilled Valjean’s glass, and once again Javert felt a certain thrill at the sight of Valjean raising his eyes to his for a heartbeat, waiting for Javert’s nod before he took hold of his glass.

Cobbett refilled Javert’s own glass as well, who sipped his wine slowly, savoring the taste—one of the inn-keeper’s best bottles, a fine Argenteuil, better even than the wine Javert had been able to afford with the former mayor’s generous payment.

There was a thrill to watching Valjean, his lips red from the wine, his manners deferent. Only a day ago he had stared at Javert from blazing eyes, facing him with such fury; now he was calm, content enough to follow where Javert led, his manners everything Javert could wish for.

And all it had taken to turn the rage in his eyes to despair was to mention the little Savoyard. Truly, what a puzzle Valjean was.

It was late by the time they finished. The inn was half-empty, their table laden with empty plates and empty bottles. A pleasant warmth spread in Javert’s stomach, and he leaned back in his chair, watching with possessive pride as Valjean reluctantly volunteered prices of oats, wheat, hay, then the prices of gum shellac and turpentine with which he had once made his fortune.

“If this process interests you, sir,” Valjean said to Cobbett, “I know you will be welcome by the new owner of the factory, Monsieur Robert. I’m certain he would be happy to show you around and answer any questions you might have.”

“You should come with me,” Cobbett said with sudden excitement, “I would love to hear—but of course, I forgot about your situation, and Monsieur Javert. I do not assume you would spare him for an hour or two tomorrow?”

Valjean began to flush when Javert glanced at him, amused by Cobbett’s suggestion and the way the man seemed to fail to recognize Valjean’s status in the town. A heartbeat later, Valjean lowered his gaze.

“I am afraid that won’t be possible, sir,” Valjean said, “and furthermore, Monsieur Robert would not thank you to bring me there. Still, I am certain you would be welcome; or perhaps Inspector Javert might introduce you.”

“Truly? A pity,” Cobbett said with a sigh, although he did not press the point.

It was rather late, and the meal had been plentiful; Javert himself was starting to feel tired.

When they’d finally extricated themselves from Cobbett’s pleasant company, the inn was nearly empty. The streets outside were quiet, the sky dark. There were no clouds; the night was cold enough that their breath escaped in little clouds.

“Come,” Javert murmured, “I’m tired. Let’s go to bed.”

Valjean followed, taking his coat once they’d made it back to Javert’s apartment and quickly building a fire in the stove to warm Javert’s bedroom. It was indeed late; by all rights, Javert should go straight to sleep.

Instead, he leaned against his desk, watching as Valjean undressed in the gleam of the moon and the flickering light of the stove. Here, alone in his bedroom, Valjean met his gaze without lowering his eyes. At a nod from Javert, he turned and went to the bed.

Javert remained where he was for a long moment to admire the view. Valjean seemed calm, only faint traces remaining now of the welts the crop had left while the skin of his back still showed the scars left by the harsh punishments of the hulks.

And yet, the heavy whip had never yielded such a pleasing result.

Javert felt his stomach twist again with yearning, with a deep appreciation of the body that was spreading itself out for him—and an abrupt, furious hunger that made it hard to focus on the whys and wherefores of Valjean’s obedience when he could test it to its limits here, when he could make Valjean yield and lay claim to everything that Valjean was offering up willingly.

He pushed himself off from the desk, then began to strip, his eyes still on Valjean. He took his time, folding his clothes carefully as he put them away, and all the while his cock was throbbing heavily, his throat dry as he thought of the fall of the riding crop, the way Valjean’s skin had colored, the way he’d cried...

Javert ran a hand up Valjean’s thigh when he finally joined him on the bed. Valjean drew in a breath as Javert trailed a fingertip along a remaining welt.

At a nudge, Valjean arranged himself on hands and knees, and Javert ran his palm up the inside of his thigh, not surprised to find Valjean half-hard, although he ignored his arousal for now.

“I’m of half a mind to go find that riding crop again,” he murmured, following another fading line that crossed the muscular buttocks.

The welt ended before it touched the cleft between Valjean’s buttocks, and as much as the thought of leaving his mark on Valjean’s skin roused a fire in him, his aching cock was more interested now in the exploration of his fingertip down the crease, and the way Valjean shivered when he found his hole.

He stroked up Valjean’s thigh again, his eyes drawn again and again to what remained of the welts. He curved his hand around a buttock, squeezing gently, his stomach tightening as he thought of how the crop had come down, how Valjean’s buttocks had trembled with the impact, and before he realized what he’d done, he’d raised his hand and let it come down hard, the way the crop had.

Valjean flinched, a breathless sound escaping him. On the pale skin beneath Javert’s touch, a red imprint of his hand had appeared. Javert swallowed thickly as he stroked it with the pad of his thumb, then let his hand come down again experimentally. He couldn’t say what to call the sound Valjean made—something soft and aching and wounded, not at all the sounds men made when they felt the whip.

Javert swallowed again, staring at the reddened skin. It was hot to the touch when he stroked across it, and when he let a fingertip dip into the crease once more, Valjean’s legs spread as his finger traced lower, his eyes still on the imprint of his hand, red as a brand right there on Valjean’s muscular backside.

Another gasp escaped Valjean as Javert teased the hole without penetrating it, his body trembling although Javert had barely touched him. And when Javert at last relented and reached out to dip his finger into the lamp oil on the nightstand, Valjean made a soft sound, reaching out to clutch the metal headboard with one hand before Javert had even pressed his slick finger against the tight muscle once more.

Was that the effect of all the wine? Javert couldn’t say that he minded, for all this power yielding to him was just as intoxicating as the reddening skin and the despairing tears had been.

Valjean’s hole yielded to him just as willingly, then tightened around him as if to draw him deeper inside.

For a moment, Javert amused himself by watching the tight muscle open up as he slipped a second finger into him, pressing in and out while Valjean gasped and pushed back against him, the rim of his hole reddening. When he at last pulled back, it was only to slip in first one thumb, then the other, gently pulling the digits apart, Valjean’s hole opening for him as Valjean groaned, vulnerable and exposed.

How much could Valjean take? At times, it seemed there was no limit to what the powerful body could bear, and something twisted hungrily in his stomach as he spread Valjean just a little further apart, the ring of muscle stretched wide open around him.

Then the insistent ache of his cock grew too distracting, the image before him too good to contemplate for much longer if he wanted to have any hope of finding his release inside Valjean.

“Turn around,” he said hoarsely when he released him, hastily smoothing another few droplets of oil over his aching cock. He was so hard that even the touch of his own hand was nearly too much; nevertheless, he gritted his teeth, his hand on the inside of Valjean’s thigh to spread his knees apart as soon as Valjean had turned.

He’d thought that he wanted to see Valjean’s face; in truth, he was already so overwhelmed that all he managed was to pant against his throat as he pushed into him, Valjean arching beneath him with a hoarse cry, legs tight around Javert’s waist.

No, there was no reticence in Valjean at all now, no deference, his hands scrabbling at Javert’s shoulder as he sobbed. Javert could feel the heat of Valjean’s own cock, hard as iron between their stomachs. For some reason, witnessing Valjean’s desperation made it easier to keep a tight rein on his own need.

His heart thudding in his chest with a greed entirely different from the mindless ache of his cock, his hips came forward again and again to bury himself deep inside Valjean. He kept his eyes wide open, holding himself up on his arms above Valjean as he watched Valjean moan helplessly, watched as tears of need glistened on his lashes, watched until that wide, generous mouth twisted, his face crumpling, his nails digging into Javert’s shoulder, overcome by pleasure to such a degree that Javert slowed down despite his own need.

Panting for breath, he stared down at Valjean, trying to make it last and last. His hips jerked forward instinctively, his stomach twisting tightly with the heat of triumph and mastery. And when release finally found him, it felt as if something inside him tore apart, pleasure racing through him in such a burst that for a moment, it felt like losing hold of his senses.

Too tired to lift a single finger, Valjean concentrated on the beating of his racing heart. Javert had collapsed on top of him—a warm, not unpleasant weight. He could feel the beating of Javert’s heart as well, his breath coming in little bursts of heat against his throat.

One of his hand, Valjean realized a moment later, was still clutching Javert’s shoulder. Experimentally, he relaxed his fingers. Javert made a soft sound but did not move, and a moment later, Valjean found that his hand had curved around Javert’s shoulder, slowly drawing across the smooth skin stretched between Javert’s shoulder blades.

It was strange that there was something soothing in his touch when it should be abhorrent to be so bare and vulnerable before Javert. Even now, his buttocks smarted a little from the impact of Javert’s hand—and it was hard to forget the sudden, hot pain of the fall of the riding crop.

Valjean knew he should resent him.

But the warmth and weight of Javert had become familiar—and it was the only such sensation he had ever known.

Perhaps it would have been similar if he’d allowed himself such closeness in the hulks. Even then, when he’d lived in the darkness, his mind little better than that of a trapped animal, filled only with hate and thoughts of revenge, there would’ve been men happy to offer warmth and the comfort of touch. He’d known that even then in a part of his mind. But he’d come into the hulks alone, untouched, and he’d left it that way, the walls he’d drawn around his soul the only defense he had against the brutality of that place.

Perhaps, if he’d allowed himself to love someone there, he wouldn’t feel so helpless at the onslaught of emotions. Before Javert, no one had touched him in such a way. Surely that could be the only reason for the way his heart clenched in his chest at the sight of Javert relaxed in sleep, the flickering flame of the candle making the sweat on his body glisten.

To Javert, this meant nothing. To Valjean, it was the only closeness he’d ever known. Sometimes, the way he reacted to Javert’s touch frightened him more than the threat of the whip.

What was a beating, after all? It was nothing. Pain would pass, the sun would rise regardless, and he would go on. In the nineteen long years in Toulon, it had become a mere fact of life, the same way he did not rail against the falling rain. Pain came and went like summer and winter, and man was just as helpless before it.

But the warmth of skin against his own, the way one could come to crave kind touches, the strange sensation of Javert’s kisses…

There was no reason for these things, and no defense against them.

What could be more frightening than the urge to run his hand over Javert’s elegant shoulders and press himself tightly against him for the comfort of his warmth to soothe him to sleep?

Javert’s breathing was slow and regular now, his body limp against Valjean’s, relaxed in sleep. Valjean was tired as well, but after long minutes of running his fingertips over Javert’s skin, he quietly slipped away from beneath him.

The stove had warmed the air in the bedroom; Valjean added another log of wood that should see them through the night. Then he stepped to the washbasin and dipped a cloth into the water.

Javert did not wake when Valjean gently pushed him to his back, washing him with careful, diligent hands, then returned to the washbasin to hastily wash himself as well.

When he returned to the bed, Javert was still resting on his back, although he had now flung out an arm across the empty side of the bed. He was bathed in the moonlight that fell in through the window, and Valjean felt something in his chest ache again as he stood at the foot of the bed, studying Javert as if he held the answer to that puzzling ache in his chest.

Javert did not stir. The moonlight gave his skin a silvery sheen, softening his features, Slowly, little by little, Valjean felt himself approaching the bed once more, as if a force pulled him there against his will.

Javert did not wake. His chest rose and fell slowly, his palm open and relaxed on the sheets.

Hesitantly, Valjean touched Javert’s open palm with a fingertip, following the lines there.

Javert’s fingers curled slowly around him. Valjean did not move away. At last, with a soft sound, Javert turned to his side, his hand still curled around Valjean’s.

Embarrassed, Valjean slipped into the bed next to him. He still couldn’t take his eyes off Javert. He looked different in sleep, and again Valjean thought of the loneliness of the hulks, the agony and the darkness of those days.

I could have been a criminal, Javert had said. Here, now, it was difficult to believe, with the soft bed beneath him and Javert’s brittle pride in what he’d achieved.

Still, if Javert had been in the hulks with him, if he’d shared the agony and the chains and the endless despair…

Slowly, tentatively, Valjean reached out, grazing Javert’s cheek with his fingertips. Javert’s skin was warm, his beard coarse against his skin.

Valjean’s fingers followed the line of his beard, brushed along the indentation above his upper lip, then touched the corner of Javert’s mouth. His lips were warm and soft, and Valjean felt strangely breathless, watching as his finger stroked ever so lightly along Javert’s bottom lip.

“If you’d been there with me,” Valjean said softly, thinking of the dark nights, the small windows, the bars of iron and the hard planks beneath weary bodies, “I think I would have loved you.”

Javert did not stir. The night was quiet. Even the sound of the wind outside had died. It felt as if everything had fallen away, the rest of the world ceasing to exist except for this small space lit by the soft light of the moon.

Emboldened by the silence of the night, Valjean leaned forward, brushing his lips against where moments ago, his fingers had touched.

Then he curled against Javert, thinking of those dark nights when it had seemed as if there was no world outside of the agony of the hulks, until finally the soothing solidity of Javert’s body against his own wore away those memories too, and he fell asleep enveloped by the strange sensation of warmth and safety.

***

Valjean woke before the sun had fully risen. There was a choir of crows cawing excitedly nearby—excited, perhaps, by the market stalls that would soon start peddling their wares, or an imprudent child who had lost a piece of bread to their attack.

The water-carrier had already started his rounds, and once, Valjean heard the sound of hooves clattering over the cobblestones. Apart from that, the town was quiet, most citizens in their beds.

When Valjean opened his eyes, he saw that Javert was still asleep. He looked different in the light of the sun; where the moon had softened his features, the sun showed the line of his jaw and the furrowing of his brow in clear detail. There was a sternness to him now that had not been there the night before—or perhaps Valjean had merely preferred not to see it last night. 

Even so, Javert looked peaceful. It seemed impossible now to imagine him in the hulks—how often had he seen Javert’s face in the light of the sun, glaring at him while he labored in the quarry?

But even that Javert was gone.

Javert was ambitious. Javert the guard was no more. In his stead, Javert the inspector of police had risen, sterner, more earnest, thinking of far greater things than a guard would have.

Was it truly so impossible to believe that Javert might keep changing when he’d already changed so much—that one day, he might even understand Valjean?

But then, Javert had always understood Valjean. There was a part of Valjean, still, that was all fury, that was everything that Javert believed him to be. Valjean had changed, just as Javert had—but that didn’t mean that they weren’t also the men they’d been in the past.

Slowly, the morning sun had begun to travel across the bed. Valjean turned away from gazing at Javert’s face; instead, he held out his hand, watching the way the rays of the sun bathed his skin in light.

He turned his hand this way and that, flushing as he thought of how Javert’s fingers had curled around his own in his sleep. Unsettled, he twisted his hand, stretching out his fingers.

The light illuminated the round scar at the center of his palm. He studied it, then clenched his eyes shut when the boy’s face rose before him. He could still feel the weight of the coin in his palm, the searing heat of it—and even that agony had paled before the guilt piercing his heart…

All of a sudden, something clenched hard around his wrist. When he opened his eyes in shock, he saw that it was Javert’s hand that had shot out and closed around his wrist.

The sun was still shining onto his hand, and Javert turned his wrist this way and that, as if to inspect the shape the scar had taken. He traced the outline of it with his thumb. Then, without releasing Valjean, he turned towards him and asked, “What happened? What really happened?”

Valjean’s throat was dry as he stared at the circle of reddened skin. “It was like I told you. I threw the satchel into the fire. It burned, and the coin fell from it into the embers. I saw it gleam in the ashes.”

“And?” Javert demanded quietly, his fingers tight around Valjean’s wrist.

Valjean swallowed, staring at the patch of burned skin until he thought that he could make out the outline of the emperor’s head.

“And I reached out and took hold of it. And I clenched my hand around it,” he said tonelessly, watching as his fingers clenched now, hiding the brand in his palm. “I’d stolen it from a child. A little boy.”

“You took a glowing coin from the fire and clenched your hand around it?” Javert murmured. “I knew something was off about your story. But why would you do that?”

“Don’t you hear what I said?” Despair welled up once more inside Valjean, his hand still in the relentless grip of Javert as he hung his head, tears burning in his eyes. “I stole it from a child. He called me a dirty thief, and he was right. It’s what I am. I’ve never denied it.”

Javert made a soft, disbelieving sound. “And yet you’ve denied a lot of things. You’ve been a thief for more than twenty years now, Jean Valjean. More than that—you’re a liar, a false magistrate; you’ve stolen power and respect that was never yours to have. And yet, whenever I bring these things up, you act like a martyr—like an innocent who suffers for no reason when all of this is a just punishment.”

“Don’t you see?” Valjean said brokenly. “You claim I broke the law here—but I hurt no one. I built a factory; I gave people work. How can I feel guilty for that? But I hurt Fantine and I hurt her daughter. And I hurt Petit-Gervais.”

“I just can’t figure you out. You seem capable of contrition, of guilt—but only for the things of least importance. So you fired a woman for dishonesty. That’s no crime. It makes you a hypocrite, perhaps, but no criminal. And the theft of the forty sous piece—now that is indeed a crime. And yet, knowing that you are a thief, a convict, you then go on and pretend to be a magistrate! If you truly felt guilt for your crimes, how could you pretend to be a respectable man? You’ve lost all right to think yourself a part of society. You’re a convict; in the eyes of the law, you’re no better than a dead man.”

Valjean bent his head in agreement, his eyes burning. For all that Javert’s unfair punishment had at least sufficed to drive that agonizing memory from his mind, now it reared up once more, the shame and guilt nearly tearing his heart apart.

“To think that you went from the hulks of Toulon to this—from convict to mayor! Don’t you know what I would give to have that position, that respect… And to think that you threw it all away, that you’d be seen defending a woman like that in public.”

“I never wanted it,” Valjean said weakly. “I never—”

“I want it.” Javert’s voice was low and intense with much the same hunger that had so often been focused on Valjean. “That authority. That respect. And you know what? I’ll never have it. They’ll let a convict come from the south, build a factory, make him mayor, all because he’s taken a new name. Do you think they’d have done the same thing for me?” Javert smiled wryly. “I’ve never been dishonest about my past. I’ve never taken a single step wrong. Maybe, if I’d made up a different past, it could have been me owning the factory, owning the house and the fine horse. But I’ll never have the thing you threw away.”

Javert released his wrist. Valjean let his hand drop down onto the sheets. He stared at the red, circular mark in the center of his palm.

A moment later, Javert reached out again to touch the old burn with a fingertip, tracing around it. “Such guilt… But only for the most inconsequential parts of your crimes. That child. The woman. That’s what you feel guilty about. And the rest? You deny it, sullen and angry, just like every other convict in the hulks. You believe that you’ve wronged people—specific people. But you refuse the authority of the state, deny your crimes against society as a whole. That is a strange sort of morality, Valjean.”

Valjean looked down at Javert’s finger, still touching the red mark. Lightly, he curled his own fingers around it.

“Is it?” he said, then raised his head to look at Javert. Javert’s finger was warm against the center of his palm—a reminder both of the crime against a child he’d committed and the fury with which he’d been punished.

The punishment hadn’t been for his crimes—but it should have been.

“Sir,” he ventured after a moment. “If what I did during the storm was wrong—what would you’ve had me do?”

Javert’s lips twitched and he raised himself a little.

“If you really are what you claim to be, you would’ve gone to save him, fully aware of the fact that you’d earn yourself a punishment. And when you’d seen me afterward, you would’ve told me that you deserved that punishment—with none of your shouting, none of your excuses, no acting the sullen martyr. After all, if it’s true that you would go to save a man no matter what, that you don’t do it for recognition—why all the anger when it fails to get you recognition? That’s hardly the selfless act you pretend it was, is it?”

Valjean squeezed his eyes shut, feeling helpless at the truth with which Javert had confronted him.

Javert wasn’t wrong. If he’d spoken the truth about only having done what he’d do for any man, no matter the circumstances—then surely he should have accepted the consequences just as he’d accepted the mud and the ache of his muscles without complaint.

“Next time you think you can just run off on your own and act without my explicit orders,” Javert murmured into his ear, the pad of his finger lightly pressing down on the center of the brand, “I want you to come and confess your crimes to me right away. No anger, no sullenness. Are we understood?”

Valjean swallowed thickly, then nodded. “Yes, sir,” he said.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The nights were long and cold now, the days short and busy, for in the square before the church, a Christmas fair had sprung up, attracting all sorts of vagrants and unsavory folks, so that soon, more often than not, the cell in the station house was in demand over night.

Dourly, Javert had counted the days to New Year’s Day. As much as he’d enjoyed the increased social standing his position as chief of police had brought, he found himself now in the unfortunate position of having to give presents to Gilbert, Delrue and the other agents who worked for him, as well as the postman, the woman who did his cooking, and his washerwoman.

One advantage to his position and background that kept him so firmly out of society was that there had been no need to set aside money to purchase gifts for those whose dinner invitations he had enjoyed throughout the year.

Small presents keep up friendship, large ones increase it is the wisdom that empties the purse of many a poor clerk every year in those last days of December. Javert meanwhile had no friends, and no prospect of striking up friendship with that part of Montreuil’s society that would extend invitations for dinner; the provincial salons that would have stood wide open to Jean Valjean in his disguise were closed to Javert.

Nevertheless, this meant that there was no need to spend ten francs on sugary confections for the women of Montreuil’s bourgeoisie. Delrue and the others would receive five francs each from him, and though he hated the expense when neither Delrue nor Gilbert had worked half as hard as he had when he had been in their position, this was unfortunately a tradition he could not be seen to flaunt.

On the first day of January, Javert woke to the pleasantly familiar sensation of his cock surrounded by the heat of Valjean’s mouth.

Drowsily, he reached down to bury his hand in Valjean’s hair, stroking him as the pleasure built. Even now, after so many months of Valjean’s companionship, there was something to the sight of that wide mouth stretched around his cock that sent a sharp burst of pleasure up his spine.

He arched lazily when he found release, his hand still in Valjean’s hair as Valjean swallowed obediently, and when Valjean let him slip from his mouth, he tugged Valjean upward to roll over him and kiss him leisurely.

“May your New Year be lucky and happy,” he said when he drew back, well aware of the irony of his words, but unable to resist.

He watched as Valjean’s tongue came out to lick his gleaming lips, his mouth swollen and red from the morning’s work.

Valjean looked half dazed, but at Javert’s words, he gave him a long, considering look. Javert was almost ready to believe that he would voice some complaint about his current lack of happiness, but instead, after a moment, Valjean relaxed, his limbs still entangled with Javert.

“I do wish you happiness,” Valjean said softly. “I hope you know that. Even when... I do hope your year will be lucky and happy.”

Javert could not hold back a soft laugh at that. “Do you? Perhaps you do. You must think that life will be easier for you if I go to Paris.”

“It’s not that.” Valjean turned his eyes away, a flush rising to his face.

Javert trailed a finger down his cheek. “Too pious for hate now? Though I do like you better when you’re not shouting at me.”

“I don’t hate,” Valjean said. “I haven’t—not for a long time now.”

“You did hate me.” Javert gently pressed his finger against Valjean’s bottom lip. “When I had you tied up in the guard room—I remember that look in your eyes to this day. The hate. The anger. You still get angry though, don’t you? You’re just better at controlling it these days.”

“What about you?” Valjean said softly. “You hated me in the hulks. You hated me in Arras; that’s why you agreed to this deal. But how can you want me to kiss me when you hate me? When you want to beat me—that I understand.”

Javert’s smile widened. “Oh, I don’t hate you. I quite like you, Valjean—at least when you’re obedient, like this.”

Valjean’s mouth was still swollen and red, his chest bare, his body covered only by Javert’s sheets. It seemed indeed impossible to hate Valjean—not that he had ever truly hated him. Not in the hulks, at least; a man did not hate the wild dogs he guarded for being wild animals, after all.

Had he hated him during those first months in Montreuil?

Yes; there had been times when he’d been forced to watch the mayor parade around, flaunting his respectability, when Javert had been furious. When he’d ridden to Paris and been humiliated in front of the Chief of Police, it was hate that had warmed his blood when he rode back to Montreuil.

But Valjean was wrong. He hadn’t agreed to this deal because he hated him. He didn’t order him back into his apartment at night again and again out of hatred.

He did it because it pleased him. Because some instinct inside him turned sharp and hungry when Valjean’s eyes gleamed with tears, when that cunning mouth trembled, when Valjean could no longer deny who and what he was, even to himself.

And there was pleasure in the heat of his body keeping him warm at night, Javert wouldn’t deny that. Valjean could be civilized enough, if he wanted—and when he wanted to be pleasant, Javert found himself even more fascinated by this puzzle of a man who could sink to his knees so gracefully at the slightest gesture, who could tremble as he kissed Javert, as skittish as a young bride when he’d spent nineteen years in the hulks.

***

It was true that Valjean had seen to it that Javert was paid well. Even so, it hurt to have to hand over five francs each to his agents as a New Year’s gift—not so much because he couldn’t afford it, although he would indeed have rather saved for the expense of finding new rooms in Paris, but because most of the men under his command hardly deserved a reward. It was a fine state of things when Delrue and Gilbert were the best of the lot—Gilbert lacking any sort of drive that would see him advance further than the position he had, Delrue having the drive but not the intelligence to make it to where Javert had.

At least Delrue had refrained from any false familiarity him after their last run-in.

But then, perhaps Javert had done him wrong. Perhaps that was a sign that Delrue was capable of learning after all.

“Success and happiness in the New Year, sir,” Gilbert said, his face reddened from the cold outside. Even so, there was a smile on it as he accepted Javert’s gift, and in return produced a small bag of candied chestnuts. “And a break from this cold; I think we all deserve that.”

“I’ve known worse winters,” Javert said shortly, then forced himself to suffer a minute or two of polite conversation with Gilbert, although he could not care less about the exploits of his three brats.

The arrival of Delrue was almost a welcome distraction from Gilbert’s descriptions of shrieking children. At least it allowed Javert to turn aside from Gilbert to exchange New Year’s greetings with Delrue and hand over five of his hard-earned francs.

Delrue, too, had a gift for him—and instead of twenty sous’ worth of candied chestnuts, it was a selection of bonbons in a proper wooden box that bore the name of the best confectioner of Arras.

Javert eyed it thoughtfully before he thanked Delrue, intrigued that the man had gone to such an effort. Javert himself had brought home a box of sugary treats from the very same confectioner, the last time his duties forced him to travel to Arras—he could not be seen to give the mayor anything less. The content of the box was of little matter, of course, but the fact that Delrue had made certain to procure it from Merlier in Arras, who was to the confectioners of the area what Boussier was to Paris, was what intrigued him.

Perhaps he had indeed been wrong about Delrue.

And then, was it any wonder that the man was trying to curry favor now? Javert might have no influence over who would receive his position when he left, and he doubted that Regnier would earnestly consider any recommendation that came from him. But Delrue wasn’t wrong in desiring Javert’s support. If Javert went to Paris, he would in time have the ear of the chief inspector. Delrue wouldn’t ever get as far as the prefecture—but he might yet make a passable chief of police of a small town like Montreuil.

“Joy and health to you in the New Year,” Javert said, gratified to find that Delrue had no stories of brats to share—which left Javert free to take the box of bonbons and shortly afterwards set out in search of the mayor himself.

Mayor Regnier was a busy man on this first day of the year.

Javert contemplated how he’d have felt if he’d been forced to visit Madeleine this morning. No doubt Madeleine would have offered him a generous gift in turn. Javert rather doubted that Regnier would be generous, but even so, he preferred it this way. At least Regnier wasn’t a criminal.

In any case, Javert had his eye on better things than Montreuil, so Regnier’s opinion did not matter in the long run—and then, so the gossip went, so did Regnier.

“Monsieur le Maire,” Javert said, inclining his head when he entered the mayor’s study, eying the man who had just left—one of the town’s electors who no doubt was a good deal more excited than Javert about the possibility of Regnier leaving the town behind.

“Ah, Javert,” Regnier said. “Joy and happiness in the New Year, and so forth. I have to say, I’m surprised that you are still with us. Surely your success will have opened doors for you in far more suitable places than our humble town.”

Javert smiled briefly. “I have heard the same about your plans, monsieur.”

He had never quite acquired the habit of the sort of conversation the town’s bourgeois tried to cultivate in their provincial salons, even though he knew it would not do to antagonize Regnier. Antagonizing Madeleine, of course, had been an entirely different thing.

Still, there was time to learn, once he was in Paris. It would take years to rise to the position the current chief inspector held—there would be more than enough time to learn.

Nevertheless, he forced himself to smile again as he handed Regnier his gift in its engraved box.

Regnier placed it on a small table next to him, where Javert could see further boxes: ostentatious creations of rosewood and mahogany, a few of them bearing the far more imposing names of the fashionable confectioners of Paris: Boussier, Sirandin, Reinhardt, Gouache, all pointedly arranged on the table to immediately catch the eye of anyone who entered.

Javert pressed his lips together and straightened.

“There’s another matter, sir. I’ll be forced to travel to Arras tomorrow and most likely have to spend the night there. It’s the trial of that man they arrested in Azincourt, who I am certain was responsible for the death of the miller’s lad last summer. Arras has requested my presence as a witness.”

“I’m certain your agents will serve just as nicely in your absence.”

Javert bit back another smile. He rather doubted that Regnier would think the same once Javert had left for Paris—but then, it was not Regnier who would have to deal with the laziness and corruption all too common among his agents. That would be the problem of the next mayor.

Javert was rather determined that he’d be in Paris by that time—no doubt dealing with the same trouble in the offices of the Prefecture. Still, at least there was the hope that in time, if he worked hard enough, he’d eventually be in a position to put a stop to that...

“My agents have been informed and prepared. They will deal with anything that cannot wait for my return.”

“Thank you, Javert.” Regnier said, and Javert bowed, glad that soon, he’d leave this town behind.

***

Despite his words, he hoped that nothing would come up during his absence. It was not that he didn’t trust Regnier or Gilbert to keep the peace for one day and one night without his help—but neither of them were experienced in handling the sort of trouble that might call for the involvement of the mayor.

On the other hand, this was not the first time he’d been called to Arras or Paris, and perhaps it would give them an opportunity to earn his trust—or at least a letter of recommendation to whoever Javert’s successor would be.

The morning was getting late when Javert returned to the station-house. He’d half decided to take Valjean’s gelding out for a quick ride through the lower part of the town, letting Noiraude rest before the journey to Arras and back, when he saw a familiar horse and carriage waiting near the station-house.

It was Robert’s carriage. Javert recognized the two bay geldings, their long manes plaited festively for what was no doubt the busy morning of an elector on New Year’s Day, making his round through the town to visit friends and relatives and hand out gifts to men who might suggest his name for the position of mayor in the coming year.

How very strange that such a man would choose to interrupt his busy morning here, when there was no reason for him to present Javert’s agents with gifts. Indeed, a decree from the year 89 forbade the giving of gifts to agents of the state—although here in the provinces men and women always clung to outdated customs much longer than officials in Paris would like.

Javert’s gaze went from the station-house to the barracks that stood behind it. Then he smiled without humor.

No, he knew very well why Robert might have stopped his carriage here, and he knew that he wouldn’t find him inside the station-house.

It was a curious thing for a man who had the money and influence to rise to a much higher position than the one he held in this small town. Javert had thought Robert smart enough to have reevaluated this friendship after Valjean had been tried and convicted. After all, Robert had been lied to and used like the rest of the town’s electors.

And yet, was it not curious that Javert kept finding Robert close to Valjean...?

When he opened the door he first thought that his suspicions had proved correct. Valjean was holding an orange, his eyes wide and guilty as they came to rest on Javert.

And yet, it seemed that Robert might have a different interest in the barracks of the town’s servants than Javert had first assumed. He was sitting next to Fantine, who held a small basket of oranges in her lap, her hand on a piece of paper—a letter that Robert must have just handed to her, his own fingers still touching it.

Fantine flushed guiltily when she looked up, her eyes immediately narrowing and turning as rebellious as Valjean’s so often did.

Javert smiled to himself as he closed the door behind him and slowly stepped closer. “A happy and joyous New Year to you, monsieur,” he said ironically. “What brings you to the barracks?”

With an easy smile, Robert rose to greet him as if there was nothing suspicious at all about finding an elector in such a dismal place—Javert might as well have encountered him in the officers’ café from the way Robert acted.

“Ah, Javert! May the New Year be happy and prosperous.” Robert reached into the basket Fantine held and plucked an orange from it, which he lobbed at Javert.

Reflexively, Javert caught it, then scowled at Robert.

“A man in your position should be more careful, sir.” Javert did not bother to hide the disdainful turn of his lips. “You know that you are in the company of a dangerous man.”

“Oh, I’m perfectly safe. I know you keep everyone here under control,” Robert said cheerfully. “I was just bringing Fantine a letter from her daughter. I had another warm dress sent to Montfermeil, together with a little doll. Surely you’ll agree that it’s hard for a child to be apart from her family at this time of year?”

“There are many children who would be glad to sleep on the floor of an inn—who’d indeed happily give up all the dolls in the world for work that feeds them and keeps them warm,” Javert said with a sneer. “Those inn-keepers do well enough with what they are paid for her upkeep. But of course, if it pleases you to indulge a woman like that, I understand, sir.”

That was curious, too—Fantine was a pretty woman, but Robert could have his pick of the town. Surely it was less effort to spend his coin on making some grisette his mistress or visiting one of the better brothels than to keep stringing Fantine along with gifts to her brat?

But of course, it wasn’t illegal to pay for the favors of a dishonest woman. As long as Fantine didn’t make a trade out of it, the town had no interest in Robert’s affairs.

“Sir,” Valjean said. He’d stood at Javert’s words and now came forward. “Was there something you wanted? Assistance with your horse?”

He was pale, but there was a fire in his eyes that Javert knew very well—the same spark of rebellion that he’d seen blazing in Fantine’s eyes.

Javert moistened his lips in deliberation. Then, purposely ignoring Robert, he pushed the orange against Valjean’s chest.

“Saddle Doré for me. And make certain he’s groomed to my standards.”

Valjean held his gaze for a long moment, then inclined his head and took hold of the orange. Javert watched him leave, waiting until the door had closed behind him before he turned back to acknowledge Robert.

“May your year be successful and prosperous,” Javert said before he turned, still smiling when he left.

No matter what Robert’s reason for this continued, misplaced interest in the town’s indentured servants was—and it might well be Fantine’s prettiness and loose morals—Robert’s smile had died when he’d seen Valjean come forward to willingly offer his services, as biddable as his golden gelding. And what would Robert say had he seen him this morning, Valjean’s rebellious mouth soft and pleasing and utterly devoted to Javert’s cock?

It truly wouldn’t do to antagonize one of the town’s electors, Javert knew that. But even so, a part of him blazed with a furious triumph as he followed Valjean to the stables.

Thank you to Kainosite for all the 19th century étrennes research!

Valjean blew on his fingers. He’d risen early that morning with Javert and then spent an hour outside in the freezing cold, splitting firewood for the stores of the hospital. Afterwards, he’d made it back to the station-house, drawing water from the icy Canche and carrying it back to the stable bucket by bucket.

His day had only begun, but already he thought with longing of the evening. It would be a rare quiet night for him today. Javert had been called to Arras, and Valjean had promised Fantine that this evening, they would practice her letters together. She had progressed well, but it was very rare that they had an entire evening together where Fantine could work on her reading with his Bible in the light of the small kitchen, except for the occasional Sunday.

Doré made an inquiring grumble when Valjean stepped up to his stall. The stall next to him, where Noiraude spent her days, was empty, as Javert had ridden to Arras in the morning. No wonder that Doré looked discontent. He wouldn’t have any occasion to stretch his legs today.

“He took you for a run yesterday.” Valjean put down the heavy bucket so that the gelding could drink. “He’ll be back tomorrow, and his mare will want to rest. He’ll let you run tomorrow.”

Doré raised his head, water dripping from his nostrils as he snorted. Valjean stroked his neck, a reluctant smile on his lips as Doré’s wet head nudged playfully at his chest.

“I can’t take you out. You know that.”

Even so, he remained with Doré for longer than was needed, stroking his golden head while the gelding nosed at his empty pocket.

The stable was quiet at this time of day. It was still very early, and Valjean had worked on his own, undisturbed by any of Javert’s agents. It was cold enough that his breath formed little clouds in the air—but Doré’s body was warm and his company welcome.

It was strange how a man could grow used to company. For so long, Doré’s company was the only he’d known, for all that Robert had tried so hard to become his friend. Still, during those years in this town, Valjean had felt safest hidden away from everyone in his office or his house, or out riding through the fields and the forest.

“You’ve been a good friend to me,” he murmured softly, stroking Doré’s cheek while the gelding breathed warm air against his chest. “I should have been a better friend to you. Who knows what will happen to you if Javert leaves…”

“Talking to yourself, Valjean?”

Valjean flinched at the sudden words that broke the silence. He hadn’t heard Delrue enter the stable, but when he looked up, trying to hide his dismay, he found him leaning against a stall near the entrance.

“Just feeding and watering the horses, sir,” he said, keeping his head low as he took a step back from Doré.

The gelding exhaled with obvious displeasure, pawing at the straw in discontent as Valjean hastily closed the door to his stall behind him.

Doré had been the last horse to water, but Delrue made no move to leave, and under his watchful gaze, Valjean did not dare to leave the stable. Instead, he walked past the other stalls once more with his bucket of water, making certain that each horse had had its fill of the water, and that everything was in order. One of the horses, he noted all of a sudden, was keeping his weight off his left foreleg—it was an older gelding, one favored by Gilbert, sweet-tempered and near impossible to spook, although not as fast as other horses.

Grateful for the reprieve, Valjean went to check on his leg and quickly found the culprit—a small, sharp stone lodged between horseshoe and hoof. It only took a moment with the hoof pick to dislodge it, but just to make certain, Valjean lifted the gelding’s other legs as well to make certain his hoofs were clean.

All of this had bought him a few precious minutes, but when he finally placed the water bucket in its accustomed place and turned, he found Delrue still in the stable—still watching him.

The back of his neck burned as Valjean warily moved towards the door. It led him past Delrue. There was no reason for the man to choose to spend time here at this time of day—it had never happened before.

Valjean didn’t dare to raise his eyes as he walked past him, keeping them firmly trained on the floor. He wouldn’t give Delrue a reason to mess with his plans—not when it was a rare night he wouldn’t have to devote to Javert.

Delrue’s arm shot out, stopping him in his tracks.

“Where the hell do you think you’re going?” Delrue’s voice was dangerously soft.

Valjean swallowed back a cry of frustrated despair, squeezing his eyes shut. Was he truly not to be allowed one single evening at his own disposal when he’d already given up so much?

“Back to work at the hospital, sir,” he forced himself to say, remaining motionless despite the hand that had grabbed hold of the ragged coat he wore. “The horses are all watered and fed. But if there’s anything else—if you want me to saddle your horse—”

That wasn’t what Delrue wanted, he knew that. If Delrue had need of a horse, there was no way he’d have waited for Valjean to see to all the other horses first.

“Don’t get cheeky,” Delrue said, his grip on his coat tightening. Then he laughed.

“Javert might spoil you, but I’m not so easy to trick. Do you think I don’t have eyes in my head? There’s only one reason a convict would play the grateful stablehand. Your kind loathes work, Valjean. The only time you work hard is if you’re whipped into it—or if you’re hatching some plan. You have far too much freedom here for my taste. Walking around as if this town still belongs to you. But those times have changed.”

“I know that, sir,” Valjean said humbly, fighting desperately against the anger that threatened to bubble up inside him at the continued insults when he’d never harmed a single person in Montreuil. “I was told to look after the horses this morning. If my work wasn’t satisfying I will—”

“You will learn to shut up. I wasn’t asking you a question.”

Fury made Valjean lift his head—but Javert had taught him well enough. He pressed his lips together, swallowing the words that wanted to break free before he could give voice to them.

Even so, Delrue’s mouth twisted into a laugh.

“There. I knew it. You’re hiding something, Valjean. What is it? Out with it.”

“Nothing, sir.” Valjean forced back the rage. This was no different than any other day. This was his life now—and it would continue to be his life until Fantine was free from indenture and his surrender to Javert’s scheme no longer needed. “I was ordered to look after the horses today. I’m sure that when he returns, Inspector Javert will—”

“Javert’s not here. And I think you’re trying to take advantage of his absence. Against the wall. Now!”

Shaking with fury, Valjean obeyed. The wall was dirty; he could feel the dust and grime beneath his hands when he pressed them against the wall.

But if Delrue wanted a reason to beat him, he would find one. He knew hat. He knew that there was nothing he could do or say that would make a difference. Then why was he so upset?

This was the truth of who he was—what he was. Hadn’t he learned that lesson in Toulon? Hadn’t Javert himself taught him that there were far worse things that could be done to a man?

At least he’d never licked Delrue’s fingers in gratitude and nestled against him at night for his warmth.

“You know what I think, Valjean?” Delrue breathed into his ear when he came to stand behind him, his hands sliding up Valjean’s sides. “I think you were tarrying here in the stable because you like being in here unobserved. So many tools left unattended. You must have thought that no one would have noticed if one or two vanished, isn’t that right?”

“No, sir,” Valjean said in protest. “I only—”

“Ah. There we have it.”

Delrue’s hands had found the pockets of his coat, and with a sudden sinking feeling, Valjean realized that he had carried the hoof pick around with him and failed to return it after he’d dealt with the pebble.

It was Delrue’s presence that had caused him to forget about it—Delrue had him so unsettled that all he’d thought about was how to escape as quickly as possible without attraction Delrue’s attention.

Delrue laughed hoarsely when he drew the tool from Valjean’s pocket. “I knew it. You thought you could play me for a fool, didn’t you? But I’m not as easily tricked as Javert.”

A moment later, iron shackles snapped shut around Valjean’s wrists. Valjean closed his eyes in despair, his head coming forward to rest against the dusty wall as helpless tears rose to his eyes.

“Come along.” Delrue roughly gripped him by the arm. “I want a closer look at you—in the station-house, where you belong.”

***

The station-house was empty. Valjean wasn’t certain whether to be grateful for his luck or to be afraid.

Delrue dragged him right past the small desks towards the rooms at the back of the building where the jail was situated.

Was he to spend his time behind bars until Javert returned?

It would be humiliating, but far from the worst that could happen to him, even if it meant that he would not be able to assist Fantine with her letters tonight.

Instead of locking him into a cell, Delrue shoved him forward.

“Always thought it was a bad idea to let the likes of you run around free,” he muttered. “Really, what the hell is Javert thinking? It’s a wonder you haven’t managed to get your hands on a weapon yet—”

“I wouldn’t,” Valjean began, only to find himself roughly pushed against the wall again.

“Shut your mouth. I haven’t asked you a question.”

Valjean hunched his shoulders, trying to force back the rising anger and fear.

Javert, at least, was someone he knew well. He knew what Javert liked, what he disliked, and even when he knew that he’d angered Javert, he knew what the consequences would be.

Delrue, on the other hand, was a different thing. He knew that Delrue had a temper. He’d felt it on more than one occasion.

But so far, he’d never seen what Delrue might do when he thought himself in control...

“Theft of a tool from the stables,” Delrue muttered. “And I wager that wasn’t the first time. What else have you stolen? I bet you have a stash somewhere—a stash of tools and weapons, just biding your time. Am I right?”

“No, sir,” Valjean said, listening to the rapid beating of his heart. His throat was dry. He was still furious, because he hadn’t done anything wrong—he’d only done his work, as he’d been told to.

But at the same time, he knew that there wasn’t anything he could do if Delrue had decided to find a reason to beat him. It had been just like that in the hulks. And back then, it had been easier to bear. Oh, he’d dreamed of getting his hands on one of the men who’d hurled abuse at him and beat him for no reason at all—but he’d known better than to act on it. He’d never have dared to try and argue with a guard.

It was harder now. No wonder Delrue was furious. In those years out of the hulks, he’d learned to think of himself as a person again.

Even Javert, as cruel as his demands could be, treated him like a person now.

A moment later, Delrue grabbed hold of his wrist. Then there was the sound of a key turning and the cuffs fell away.

Delrue took a step back from him.

“Undress.”

Valjean’s stomach twisted with dread. The command was one he’d heard often enough in his life—even so, his days with Javert had developed a certain routine. This was unexpected.

Had he truly started to feel so safe that he’d stopped fearing Delrue or the other agents?

Slowly, he pulled off his clothes. He didn’t dare to look at Delrue. Instead, he stared at the wall of Montreuil’s jail, his eyes following a small crack in the plaster as he stepped out of his trousers.

Once he was naked, Delrue came forward again and handcuffed him once more. Then he grabbed hold of his clothes, rifling through them.

There was nothing in his pockets, of course; he owned nothing, except for the Bible which Javert had let him keep, and which remained in the barracks today for Fantine’s lessons.

Valjean swallowed when the clothes were dropped carelessly at his feet.

“Are you going to tell me what you were planning on doing with that tool?” Delrue murmured. “I’m not a fool, Valjean. I know you’re strong. Were you planning to use it on whatever chains Javert puts on you?”

“Javert doesn’t need chains for me, sir,” Valjean said desperately. “He knows there’s nowhere for me to run. I was merely cleaning the horse’s—”

Delrue shoved him hard against the wall. Valjean groaned, unable to brace himself for the impact with his hands cuffed.

“Shut up,” he hissed. “You want it the hard way then? I’ll teach you not to try your tricks on me. Now hold still.”

A moment later, Delrue’s hands were on him, searching him as he’d so often been searched before. There was nothing unfamiliar about the sensation, his skin crawling as he stared at the wall, focusing on a small crack in the plaster, the sound of his own breathing as loud as thunder in his own ears while he distantly felt hands slide down his sides.

Delrue’s hand closed around his soft cock. Valjean couldn’t quite suppress the small, humiliated sound that escaped at the touch.

With a derisive laugh, Delrue felt his balls as well, his hands rough and lingering for a moment, no doubt enjoying the power he had over the man who’d once been mayor. Then Delrue released him, but only for a heartbeat.

Valjean shuddered when he felt Delrue’s hands on his buttocks. Delrue spread him apart, and when he could see for himself that Valjean had nothing hidden in the crease, his fingers slid to his hole.

They penetrated without warning, as others had before.

Valjean squeezed his eyes shut, listening to the pounding of his heart as for a moment, he could hear the sounds of Toulon again—the creaking of the hulks, the snap of the whip, the shouts of the guards. These were the sounds of nightmares that still visited him, and it seemed that he had never truly left that place behind. Perhaps he never would be free, no matter how far he ran.

“What’s so interesting about you anyway, Jean Valjean, that he keeps an eye on you like a jealous man on an unfaithful mistress, eh?”

Valjean breathed shallowly as two of Delrue’s fingers slid deeper into him, crooking inside him.

There was nothing for Delrue to find.

Valjean knew the tricks of convicts, of course, and once upon a time had made use of those few hidden spaces a convict possessed to smuggle a file into the hulks to work on his chains at night. But what use had he for files now? Javert didn’t keep him chained. There were no chains on him at night—no chains of iron, at least.

What bound him to Javert was far more powerful: it was his own past sins, the torment he’d caused Fantine, and the promise he’d made to protect her and her child.

Javert might not truly believe that he’d spoken the truth about that, but even Javert, who knew the ways of convicts, had been satisfied that Valjean wouldn’t run because there was no way he’d escape unrecognized when he’d once been mayor of this town—and when he was treated so much better here than he’d be treated in the hulks.

But Delrue cared nothing for explanations or promises. Valjean knew men like him. There had been many guards just like that in the hulks: angry at their lack of power compared to their superiors, furious at their lack of status in society, and all too happy to abuse their power over the convicts instead.

That was all this was to Delrue: a way to make Valjean feel his power over him. And just as Valjean had done so many times before, the safest way to deal with it would be to let it happen without protest, to submit to it all like he’d submit to a sudden shower of rain, and to think of how soon it would pass. Even if Delrue would lock him up for the day, tomorrow Valjean would be returned to what little freedom he had.

Then Delrue exhaled against his ear. The sound that escaped him was triumphant and derisive at the same time. Valjean couldn’t quite hold back a pained groan as Delrue’s fingers spread inside him, ruthlessly forcing his already aching hole to gape open for him.

And then there was a small, warm trickle down Valjean’s thigh. His face burning, he realized at last what it was Delrue had found.

“He fucks you,” Delrue murmured into his ear, then finally pulled out his fingers.

He took a step back from Valjean. When Valjean hesitantly turned his head, his stomach roiling with shame and terror, he could see that Delrue had raised his hand—and that there was a wetness on his fingers.

It was the same wetness Valjean could feel running down his thighs and which this morning he had felt filling him, Javert sighing against his skin in satisfaction.

Valjean remembered it well, every single detail of it: The way Javert’s fingers had dug into his thigh. The way Valjean had arched as he felt himself mastered and overcome. The heat of Javert’s mouth against his collarbone, pressing hungry, open-mouthed kisses against his skin as he spent himself deep inside Valjean—and filling him with hot spurt after spurt of his seed that now kept trickling out of him, streaking his thighs as Delrue watched.

Impatiently, Javert reined Noiraude in, dismounting even before she’d come to a stop in front of the stable.

He looked around impatiently when Valjean did not immediately appear to take hold of the reins. He’d thought that he’d made his wishes quite clear—Valjean was to make himself useful in the stables, in addition to his other duties, while he was gone.

Javert had been in a good mood when he’d left Arras. There had been no doubt that the man was indeed the murderer who’d stabbed the miller’s lad, and there’d even been a remark by the prosecutor about Javert’s well-known diligence—the memory of Valjean’s trial was still fresh, of course. It was the most excitement Arras had seen all year, after all.

But the ride had been long, and although his mare ran swiftly and without tiring, there had been little to pass the time but the memories of Valjean awakened by the court of Arras: the way he’d watched Valjean from the moment he’d entered, the way Valjean had finally broken, just as he’d thought he would, the way Valjean had pleaded with him and then signed himself over into his power—willingly.

And it hadn’t been so bad a deal for Valjean in the end.

Javert felt that same, sharp ache that had plagued him during the ride flare up again as he thought of Valjean’s powerful body arching beneath him, giving him everything he’d ever wanted, everything he’d asked for.

Everything but the rusty bit he’d found in Father Boulet’s stable.

Javert’s lips rose into an involuntary smile.

He’d have that too, sooner or later—but Valjean would give it willingly, just as he’d given his mouth before. Javert was patient, and it was sweeter this way, watching Valjean struggle with himself before he admitted his defeat and surrendered himself to Javert’s hand.

The thought of the mouthpiece he’d bought reminded him of the lack of service he required. Annoyed, he pushed the stable door open and led the horse inside.

Within, he found the young stable lad instead of Jean Valjean. At Javert’s sudden entrance, the boy jumped up and hastily came forward to take Javert’s horse.

“Where’s Valjean?” Javert said curtly. “He was supposed to work in the stable while I was gone.”

“I don’t know, sir,” the boy said, staring at him from wary eyes. “They said it would be just me.”

“They.” Javert scoffed. Was that all it took—one night’s absence for his agents to think they could give orders and ignore his commands?

“See to her,” he said before he turned around and left without another word, his annoyance building as he made his way towards the station-house with long strides, frustration thrumming within him. Who was it who had dared usurp his place?

Perhaps it wasn’t what he feared. Perhaps there had been need of Valjean’s strength—a fallen tree, an escaped ox, all of these were good reasons that might have led to Valjean’s absence.

Nevertheless, his mood was still dark when he strode into the station-house a minute later, finding it blessedly empty but for two of his men—as it should be at this time of day when his agents were of far more use keeping an eye on the goings-on in the lower part of town.

Delrue was sitting at his desk, looking far too pleased with himself as he stood to greet Javert. The other man took one look at Javert’s face and immediately rose to all but flee—which was for the best. Javert had no use for idlers. He’d be far more useful trying to catch one of their informants.

“The journey went well, sir?” Delrue inquired, leaning against his desk.

Javert didn’t like the expression on his face. He’d thought that Delrue had learned his lesson, and his gift on New Year’s Day meant, or so he’d assumed, that Delrue was aware of his error and had resolved to put in the work it would take to convince Javert of his earnestness.

Instead, Delrue looked strangely smug. On any other day, Javert might have thought that Delrue had caught a thief single-handed or put a stop to a brawl in an inn without help.

But given the events of the past year, Javert wasn’t filled with high expectations when it came to Delrue. And the fact that they were alone in the station-house now, when Javert was already in a bad mood because Valjean hadn’t followed his orders...

No, something wasn’t right here. He could taste it in the air. Delrue’s little triumph had that sour taste he well remembered from his time in the hulks—the petty meanness of the guards, a hundred small infractions committed for no other reason than to wield what little power they had at the moment, disregarding their future prospects.

“Yes,” Javert said curtly. “As expected. Our murderer is in irons. How did the town fare?”

“Well,” Delrue said. “Nothing of great importance. Three travelers lodged in the inn yesterday; they have already left. And one man, I’m afraid, we had to keep in the cells overnight.”

Javert raised a brow. “Nothing of great importance, you say? That sounds like something I should be informed about.”

“Don’t worry. I had him in cuffs before he could do harm.” Delrue pushed himself away from his desk. “It’s your man Valjean.”

Javert froze, fury bubbling up inside him with an intensity that surprised him. Just as rapidly, he forced the emotion back down, although he was still aware of a faint thrum in his ears, every muscle in his body tense as if Delrue had slapped him instead.

With effort, he banished any sign on his face of the turmoil within him as he turned to face Delrue—but by the way Delrue’s lips twitched, he knew that he hadn’t been entirely successful.

What was Delrue thinking? After the last few weeks, Javert had been willing to give him a chance. But for Delrue to challenge him again...

“What happened?” Javert demanded, slowly advancing towards Delrue.

“I caught him in the stable—stealing a tool. No doubt something he intended to use to escape.”

“You’ll let me be the judge of that.” Javert clenched his jaw as he strode past Delrue towards the part of the building that served as the town’s jail.

Delrue came after him a moment later, effortlessly keeping pace with him.

“Don’t worry,” Delrue said with humor in his voice. “I searched him—very thoroughly. A man like that could hide a weapon on his body—or inside it.”

“Not that one,” Javert said. “He’s learned his lesson.” Then he fell silent, furious that he’d said anything at all.

“Oh, I believe that, sir. I could see the results of your lessons. Right there… dripping down his legs.”

Javert stopped abruptly. He didn’t speak, fury boiling up inside him once more—and this time, he didn’t fight it.

He clenched his fists.

A moment later, he had Delrue pressed against the wall.

“I don’t know what game you think you’re playing, but I’ve had enough of it. I gave orders regarding that man. Orders regarding the work I want to see him do. He’s no use to me sitting lazy in a cell all day.”

Delrue gave him a brazen smile. “I could see that, sir. You must prefer him in a bed.”

“One more word,” Javert forced out through gritted teeth, “and you’ll be out of a job.”

Delrue tilted his head. “How is that, sir? You are a smart man—hoping to move on to Paris very soon. The Prefecture, is what we hear. Would you truly ruin a promising career over a convict?”

Javert wasn’t a stranger to jealousy and the petty machinations of lesser men. By the time he’d climbed up the ladder in Toulon, he’d been well-liked by his men—but that didn’t mean that there hadn’t been the occasional guard, back in his youth, who’d been consumed with jealousy when Javert had moved up the ranks.

He’d thought Delrue better than that—smart enough not to antagonize a man in Javert’s position. But it seemed that he’d been mistaken.

“What do you want to win by this, I wonder,” Javert said coldly. “The man’s a convict from the hulks. If I decide to teach him his place, who cares?”

Delrue shrugged. “Not me. I wager he’s had dozen men or more in the hulks. It’s no wonder he’d try to buy a kinder treatment with his body. It’s no wonder you’re eager for revenge, either.”

“Then what’s all this about?”

Delrue smiled at him, eyes fearless and calculating, despite the harsh grip Javert still had on his coat.

“Never fucked a mayor myself,” he said. “Or for that matter, whipped one. But this isn’t about taking your toy away. I don’t care about your fun—though you might want to keep him on a tighter leash. It’s grating to see him strut around. But what I want is for you to do me a favor in turn.”

“A favor,” Javert repeated in disbelief, his blood still boiling with fury. “And what would that be?”

“When you leave, the town will need a new chief of police.”

Ah. There it was then. Perhaps it shouldn’t have surprised Javert—he’d recognized some of the same ambition in Delrue that had driven himself forward for so long.

But Javert would never have dared to resort to blatant insubordination to get his way—or at least, he wouldn’t have resorted to blackmail. Because this was what this was going to be.

“Even if I were susceptible to blackmail, you have some gall to try it on me. I could have you stripped from work in a second. Do you think anyone in this town is going to listen to a police spy? Against me—the one who exposed their precious Madeleine?”

Delrue regarded him coolly. “You’d be surprised. I was born in this town. And there’s a lot that people are willing to believe if it’s coming from one of their own. You might be famous in Paris, sir… but out here it’s a different matter.”

Javert’s chest was heaving, his pulse loud in his ears as he stared into Delrue’s face. His hands were still clenched around the man’s collar, Delrue pressed hard against the wall—but for all that Javert was in control, he couldn’t help but realize that Delrue was right.

If Delrue spread rumors about him, it wouldn’t help his cause. They might never travel as far as Paris—but then, they might.

Regnier was no friend of his. Regnier wanted him gone. Regnier would be happy to see Javert go to Paris. But if Delrue whispered his words into the right ears, if he found a powerful supporter—someone like Robert, perhaps, a respected elector and owner of much land around the town…

“I can’t help you,” Javert said at last, hating every word he was forced to speak. “You know that. It’s not me who gets to decide who gets the job.”

“You have influence in Paris now, don’t you?” Delrue shrugged. “The golden child of the prefecture. Don’t think I don’t know about all those articles in the paper about your arrest of Madeleine. Someone will listen to you. And if they don’t… Well, there are other towns. It doesn’t have to be Montreuil.”

“I won’t be blackmailed by the likes of you,” Javert forced out, although he at last released Delrue and took a step back.

“Such an ugly word,” Delrue murmured, straightening his coat. “I’d prefer to call it helping out a friend. Don’t worry. I don’t expect anything to happen overnight. You’ll need time to write to your friends and inquire about a suitable position for me, after all. Let us say, a month until you and I shall talk about my future again?”

Javert stared at Delrue, full of fury. He’d worked hard to arrive at this place. More than a decade of hard work to drag himself out of that morass of criminality he’d been born into, another decade to rise to where he now was.

And after all this time, after he was finally in a position that afforded him some of the respect he’d craved all his life, Delrue had managed to wipe it all away as if the foundations of Javert’s life were as flimsy as a house of cards.

“For now, you might want to look after your pet convict.” Delrue chuckled. “I’m sure that a night in a cell will have left him a lot more docile. No need to thank me for it, sir.”

Javert was still fuming when he strode into Montreuil’s jail. Situated at the back of the building, it was usually quiet here, except for those days when a rowdy, drunk vagabond was waiting behind bars until he could be transported away.

Today, the cells were empty—except for one.

Valjean looked up as Javert entered the small antechamber, his brow creased with worry and his mouth an unhappy frown.

Even now, the sight hit Javert with painful force, something in his gut twisting and turning with the memory of how warm and soft that mouth could be, of how Valjean could be coaxed to kiss him, of what he looked like, wet with sweat and trembling beneath Javert.

He’d thought that furious hunger would start to decrease over time, now that he’d sated at it last. But right now, the old hunger was burning as brightly within him as it had when he’d been forced to defer to Madeleine, long before he’d seen Valjean strip for him and go to his knees.

Valjean rose slowly and came towards the bars of his cell. “Sir,” he said softly, something anxious in his eyes.

Javert noted how they flicked away from him almost immediately, lingering on the door behind him for a moment before they returned to him, this time in relief.

Javert unlocked the door to the cell without another word. Perhaps he should send Valjean back to the barracks and keep him there. It would be safer. It would be the sensible choice.

But Javert had never dealt well with having his authority questioned by those beneath him. And to have it come not from a convict but one of his own men...

He drew in a breath, fury still prickling beneath his skin.

“Come along,” he said to Valjean, and then led him up to his small apartment.

Once the door was closed behind them, Valjean came forward without being prompted to take his coat. There was still a worried frown on his face, but he didn’t speak when Javert moved deeper into the room, then flung himself into his chair.

Brooding over the options that stood open to him now, Javert watched silently as Valjean approached and went to his knees unbidden to remove his boots.

Afterward, Valjean remained on his knees, his mouth still twisted unhappily as he looked up at Javert.

Javert found himself reaching out, burying his fingers into the short, disheveled locks, tousling them before he tightened his fingers.

“There’s something about you that brings out the worst in people,” Javert murmured

Valjean’s frown deepened so that Javert thought he’d pull away. Instead, Valjean lowered his head after a moment.

“Delrue told you, sir? I didn’t intend to steal, but I know it doesn’t matter. I made a mistake. I know you’ll punish me for it.”

“What?” Javert tugged Valjean’s face back up so that he could look at him. Valjean didn’t look as sullen as he’d expected, but strangely composed.

Maybe Delrue had been right about one thing—a night in the cell had put things into perspective.

“I don’t care about what you did. I care that one of my own men thinks he can use you to advance his own career.” Javert scoffed. “I wouldn’t believe any promises he made you. Delrue can’t do anything for you.”

“He didn’t promise anything to me,” Valjean said, his brow furrowing again as he looked up at Javert. “He found me with a hoof pick in my pocket. It was a mistake, but I’ll admit to that. Afterward, he searched me.”

Valjean’s eyes slid away from him, and he was silent for a moment before he continued, his mouth twisted bitterly.

“You fucked me before you left. You remember that, sir? That was what he found. But it’s no matter. Surely no one would expect anything else from a man who’d been in the hulks for so many years. And I know that he hates me. I’m not so foolish to believe that a man like that would do something for me. Whatever he told you, sir, it has nothing to do with me.”

Javert had been pacing for much of the evening.

Valjean had served him his dinner, had brushed his coat and shined his boots and made himself useful with every little task Javert thought to give him.

Every now and then, Javert seemed to settle down for a while, brooding in his armchair as he watched Valjean at work—but then he’d jump up again and resume his pacing, muttering curses under his breath.

Valjean knew, of course, what had Javert in such a bad mood. The thought that Javert would submit to blackmail was bizarre—and yet, Valjean could not think of what else might be done.

Another man might have easily brushed off the accusations of a police spy—especially a man in Javert’s position who’d aroused the notice of certain magistrates in Paris with his diligent work.

But Javert was an outsider here just as Valjean was. To the eyes of Montreuil’s electors, an upstart guard from the hulks of Toulon with suspect parentage was no better than the convicts chained in the hulks. Valjean understood that well, and his mouth twisted unhappily as he watched Javert pace, remembering the eyes that had followed him with suspicion and derision after Toulon, no better than a vagabond with his yellow passport.

No, it would not be wise to ignore Delrue—even if those rumors would not travel as far as Paris, they would not make Javert’s life in Montreuil easier. And for a man like Javert, who seemed to yearn for respect with much the same hunger Valjean himself had felt when he’d arrived here…

No, perhaps it was impossible for Javert to accept the mere possibility of such an accusation besmirching his character.

And what would such rumors do for Valjean?

With a bitter smile, Valjean turned his gaze back towards the floor. Wasn’t that what they assumed of him anyway? That he’d had lovers in the hulks; that he was used to trading his body for favors?

Sometimes Valjean now wished that he’d found such intimacy in those terrible years. Maybe then he’d have some sort of defense against what Javert’s closeness did to him. This was perhaps the cruelest thing Javert had ever done—to torment a heart that had never known love with this intimacy that should have been a mockery, and which Valjean still could not entirely bring himself to resent.

Again Javert began pacing: from the window to the wall to the table, then a turn and back to the window before he’d start all over again.

“Sir,” Valjean said when Javert passed him by. He looked up without bothering to suppress the wry smile on his lips. “You seem to be in a bad mood.”

“What gave it away?” Javert snapped. “And if I wanted your opinion, I’d ask for it.”

Undaunted, Valjean kept holding his gaze. “What are you going to do?”

“What do you think? I have no choice, do I?”

He came towards Valjean, who remained patiently kneeling on the floor until Javert reached out to tightly grab hold of a fistful of his hair.

“Maybe you’re more trouble than you’re worth…”

“I think you got your money’s worth out of me,” Valjean said bitterly, “and then some.”

“But who’s the real winner here? You came to my bed freely. Willingly.” Javert laughed softly. “Let’s not forget that. Compared to the hulks, a few nights in a soft bed aren’t that terrible a price to pay for your comforts here.”

“So you will do what he says?” Valjean frowned as he considered the possibility. The mere thought of Javert submitting to a subordinate was absurd.

“Do I have a choice?”

“That must rankle. Worse than when you had to do the bidding of a convict.”

“Watch your mouth,” Javert said, his eyes dark.

Valjean smiled ironically. “None of this would have happened had you gone for my mouth instead.”

Javert’s jaw clenched. A moment later, his fist was on Valjean’s shirt and he found himself hauled up.

“What’s the matter with you? You’re just begging for a beating today.”

“You’re aching for one,” Valjean said. “And we both know that you can’t beat him. But you can beat me. I thought we could get it out of the way.”

“I should shut you up with that spiky bit,” Javert threatened softly. “That would cure that insolent mouth of yours.”

“You like my mouth too much to injure it.”

Valjean wasn’t quite certain why he was doing what he was doing. He knew that it was dangerous to antagonize Javert.

But at the same time, he understood Javert well enough. If Valjean had been alone with Delrue right now, he would have been afraid. He wasn’t afraid of Javert.

Even now he couldn’t say exactly why that was, but it was true—even knowing what he did about the things Javert might choose to do.

It couldn’t be worse than the night in the cell, anyway, when Valjean’s heart had pounded every time he heard steps in the anteroom, wondering whether Delrue might return—wondering whether Delrue might want a taste of what Javert had taken, or whether he’d come back with some flimsy excuse to whip him, the way he must have longed for.

It had been a long, sleepless night. A dark night, in which Valjean had slept curled up in his cell on a wooden plank, thinking of those nights in the hulks, despairing at the man he’d been—that darkness in his soul which he could see so clearly now, and by whose light every small infraction, every act of anger and selfishness came forward to stare at him in the cold light of judgment.

Long before Fantine and her child, had he not shouted in helpless fury at the Bishop, the first man to show him kindness? And the people in the villages he encountered before he even came to Digne, who’d stared at him with suspicion and treated him with open hostility when they saw what he was—had he not shown himself worthy of just such treatment by the way he’d returned their hostility with anger and scorn?

There was no one moment he could point to, no single decision that had made him who and what he was. It was true that the prison hulks had turned him into a monster by treating him like an animal—but had it not been his own choice, day after day, encounter after encounter, to choose hate and anger?

A beaten animal could not help but to lash out in return—but wasn’t it true that he was more than an animal? That there had always been a choice, and that he’d turned away from it in bitterness and contempt for all of humanity?

Once, he’d blindly raged against the grinding system that kept pushing him down into that mire of misery. But during that night in the cell, when those memories rose up inside him again, he’d been able to see with painful clarity the long path of his failings that had led him to that little cell.

Against that night of judgment, Javert’s anger was nothing.

Valjean lifted his chin and looked at Javert. Then he held out his hand towards him, his palm turned up and his fingers spread, revealing the circular brand at the center.

“I’m not afraid of you,” he said. “Can you do worse than this?”

Javert’s nostrils flared as he stared at him voicelessly for a moment. Then his hand shot out and grabbed Valjean’s wrist.

“You know I can. Will I? No. But you’re right about one thing. Beating you will make me feel better, never doubt that.”

Earlier, when Javert had stomped inside, he’d furiously dropped his hat and gloves on the small table by the door, together with his riding crop. Valjean had tidied Javert belongings away quickly. Javert liked for everything to be orderly: everything had its place; the coat, the hat, the gloves.

“Fetch my crop,” Javert demanded softly.

Valjean looked towards the door where the crop’s assigned place was, awaiting its next use. Then he obeyed, retrieving the tool without protest and handing it to Javert.

Valjean wasn’t afraid or angry. He felt strangely calm. He knew that Javert was angry—he could almost taste it, simmering beneath the surface, like the sharp scent in the air when the clouds roll in and the sky darkens, moments before the first strike of thunder.

It felt a little like that: awaiting the rain, awaiting the lightning. It didn’t fill him with fear.

Perhaps it was because he’d felt the crop before. But mainly, he thought as he calmly watched Javert, he wasn’t afraid because Javert’s anger wasn’t for him. It was for Delrue.

This time, unlike that night out in the shed of Father Boulet when he’d despaired at the unfairness of it all, there was no question of guilt or punishment.

Perhaps that should have made it feel more unfair; instead, it made it easy.

Javert took the crop from him and slapped it against his leg as he gave Valjean a considering look. Javert seemed calmer, too, although the undercurrent of frustration and annoyance was still thrumming through him.

Javert lifted the crop and pressed it against the side of Valjean’s face. Then, slowly, he dragged it downward. Even now, the touch felt more teasing than threatening, although Valjean knew what was to come.

“Strip,” Javert then said and took a step backward, watching from dark, burning eyes when Valjean obeyed once more.

Valjean drew off his shirt and folded it. He could feel Javert’s heavy gaze on his skin. Then he stripped out of his trousers as well.

Javert drew in air, slow and satisfied, when Valjean turned from him to put his clothes away. When he turned back to look at Javert, he saw that his expression had changed.

The earlier frustration was gone. Even the anger was no longer visible in his eyes. Instead, there was a familiar, sharp focus that made Valjean tremble.

He held still when Javert stepped around him, circling him slowly as he once had in the hulks, using the tip of the crop to stroke Valjean’s thighs, buttocks, stomach.

“Would you take it standing if I asked you to?” Javert wondered aloud. “Never mind. Bend over the bed.”

Valjean exhaled, then did as he was bid.

The sheets were cool beneath his skin. Valjean breathed deeply, then stretched himself out, his arms in front of him, his upper body flat on the bed.

A moment later, Javert stepped behind him. The crop nudged his thigh, and Valjean allowed his legs to spread, then spread further, until Javert made a satisfied sound.

“I don’t even need a reason for it,” Javert murmured while Valjean’s heart was racing in his chest. “You’ll bend over for it anyway, and I—I enjoy seeing you like this. I wonder, do you enjoy it too? It’s an absurd thought. But you keep offering yourself up for punishment. Either you’re very foolish, or…”

What else Valjean might be he did not say. Instead, after a moment of silence, the crop caressed along his thigh again before it lifted.

A heartbeat later, it came down with bruising force onto his buttocks. Valjean found himself gasping, tears rising to his eyes at the sharp burn. Another stroke of the crop followed almost immediately. Valjean’s fingers dug into the sheets, but he didn’t move otherwise.

“That’s more like it,” Javert said in satisfaction. “This look suits you.”

The crop came down again, hard, this time forcing a groan from Valjean’s throat. Javert laughed before he struck again.

Helplessly, Valjean squirmed—not to escape, but merely because it burned too much to stay still. Javert took that as his cue to let further blows follow, Valjean’s teeth digging into his lip as he could feel hot welts spring up on his skin.

“Yes, that’s a much better look for you. I wouldn’t strike a horse, but you’re just begging for a good thrashing. This is what you’re meant for. Hard work and the whip. You could be as sweet and pleasing as you can be, and you know what, Valjean? I’d want to whip you anyway. Just to see see this impressive arse of yours quiver and redden.”

Valjean gasped wordlessly, keeping himself stretched out and still for the fall of the crop. His buttocks burned, but when Javert ceased for a moment, tapping his hip again, he raised his backside obediently, pushing back towards from where the whip would fall and kept that position even when it came, red-hot lines of pain slashing across already burning skin.

It was nothing against the torment of the hulks—but even so, Valjean’s eyes were burning, his chest tight with sobs he struggled to hold in, and every time Javert let the crop come down hard, pain flared anew.

No, this wasn’t the torment of a whip that would tear open his back until he’d faint—but even so, there was pain, and shame bubbling up from somewhere deep inside him, his face wet with tears as he pressed his hot face into the sheets.

Then Javert shifted behind him. When the crop struck next, it painted a line of fire across his thighs. The shock of it made him gasp, and Javert laughed in turn.

“Still want this?”

Javert was breathless too—but where Valjean’s throat was tight with tears, Javert’s voice was rough with hunger. Valjean knew the sound of it well. This was how Javert sounded when he buried himself deep inside him, taking Valjean with hard thrust after thrust, his teeth rasping against Valjean’s skin as even that wasn’t enough.

Valjean couldn’t see Javert, but he didn’t need to. He knew exactly how Javert looked at that moment: chest heaving from the exertion, eyes flashing and dark with hunger, smiling that small smile of triumph and satisfaction at having Valjean beneath him. It was right there in his voice, words dripping with lust—only for once, Javert had taken his pleasure not from Valjean’s body but from his pain.

“Or do you regret your offer now?”

Valjean gasped for breath through his tears, his backside burning. Even so, he arched his back, spread his thighs, offered his reddened buttocks for more of Javert’s chastisement—and the half-shocked, half-admiring sound of indrawn breath that followed was reward enough, moments before the crop came down once more, the impact forcing a sob from him at last.

This time, the sound that escaped Javert was unmistakable a moan of lust.

Flushing violently, Valjean dug his fingers deep into the sheets, squeezing his eyes shut—but even through the bright red pain of his smarting behind, he could hear Javert’s heavy breathing. His mind was full with images of Javert, the memory of sensation burned into his skin like the brand in his palm: the heat of Javert’s skin, the taste of his sweat, the way arousal made his eyes gleam and his skin shine with perspiration in the light of the lamp. He knew the rasp of Javert’s beard, knew the taste of his mouth and the taste of his cock and how that stern mouth would relax when he was pleased.

“Please,” Valjean gasped, although he couldn’t say what he was pleading for, arching his back as much as he could even as the thought of how he had to look made his face burn with shame.

Then the crop drew another red-hot line across the sensitive skin of his thighs and the pain burned even through that shame, leaving him nothing but the sound of his own heavy breathing, the fire of his buttocks, and an overwhelming awareness of Javert and his pleasure.

The room was quiet. It had begun to grow dark outside. Soon he’d have to stop and light a lamp, but for now Javert found it impossible to tear his eyes away from the sight before him.

Valjean was kneeling, stretched forward across the bed. His muscular backside was raised towards Javert even though it had flushed a bright red, stripe after stripe of skin colored by the riding crop in his hand.

Something about the sight made it difficult to breathe. Javert’s throat was tight, his heart thudding against his ribs as he stood, still panting from the exertion as he surveyed his work.

He was hard. His cock ached mindlessly, pressing against the confines of his trousers with maddening need, but so far he’d refused to give in to it. Not that he didn’t want to fuck Valjean—but that pleasure was familiar, and though it was always pleasing, Valjean had been right about one thing: giving him the thrashing he deserved was what he’d really needed. Javert was still furious at Delrue, still furious at the world that seemed to dangle respect before him only to threaten to take it away at the last moment—but all of that had dulled, safely pushed to the back of his mind while more pressing matters now held his attention.

Matters like the beating Valjean had dared him to deliver, and which he had delivered—so soundly that his blood was thrumming with the special kind of exhilaration caused by seeing someone so powerful on his knees, made vulnerable, beaten into submission—submission to Javert.

“There. That suits you better.”

Slowly, Javert ran the tip of the riding crop up the inside of Valjean’s thigh. He’d made him spread his legs far enough that he could see his hole—clenched tightly for now, but that would not last long.

Javert ran the crop up the crease as well, letting the tip rub against the tight muscle until Valjean trembled and made a soft, hoarse sound. Then Javert dropped the crop with a sigh of satisfaction.

“On the bed. On your hands and knees.”

He pressed a hand against his aching cock as Valjean drew himself painfully up onto the bed. Once on the bed, Valjean remained silent, although Javert could hear his heavy breathing. Valjean’s back was still arched, his chastised buttocks and thighs presented to Javert who stared at the red welts, throat dry at the sight.

At last, Javert sat down on the edge of the bed. Then he reached out, trailing a hand over Valjean’s buttocks. The sensation made Valjean hiss, but he didn’t move away—instead, he pressed back into Javert’s touch, his skin burning hot where the crop had fallen.

Javert swallowed as he stroked Valjean’s bottom slowly, savoring the sensation. Then he dug his fingers in, squeezing the muscular buttocks. In response, Valjean groaned, half collapsing so that he was resting on his shoulders instead, his face pressed into the sheet—his backside still pushed up, at Javert’s disposal.

“Yes. It does shut you up. And it seems to have been just the exertion I needed.”

Stroking down Valjean’s striped thigh, he marveled at the hard muscles flexing against his palm. There was something about the brutal strength of Valjean’s body and the posture of his submission that brought to mind the marble perfection of classical statues—a warrior, perhaps, on his knees in the dust before a Roman hero, vanquished and made to submit, but no less beautiful for it.

Or perhaps beautiful because of it. For all that Valjean had enjoyed strutting around as Monsieur le Maire on his fine Spanish horse, he’d never been more exquisite than he was at this moment, stripped and defeated and humbled—and yet strangely lovely in the way his body bent in willing submission.

“I like you like this.” Javert used his nails to lightly scratch back upwards.

Valjean hissed, muscles flexing again, but he still didn’t move away.

Javert’s smile widened a little. “But I think I’m not done yet. And neither are you.”

Valjean made a breathless sound that might have been assent or denial, his voice rough with tears.

When Javert reached out to grab a handful of his hair, forcing him to turn his face towards him, he could see that Valjean’s cheeks were wet. The sight woke a new hunger in Javert, and he used his hold on Valjean’s hair to pull him up to his knees, tightening his fingers around Valjean’s chin instead to hold him in place for a kiss. Valjean’s mouth opened obediently for his tongue, surrendering as he’d surrender to everything Javert wanted. Javert could taste the salt of his tears on Valjean’s lips, but the only sound that escaped him when Javert’s tongue thrust roughly into his mouth was a breathless, overwhelmed moan that was more pleasure than pain.

Javert drew back, pressing his lips to the tear tracks, tracing the glistening path with the tip of his tongue.

“Over my lap,” he then said roughly. “Your backside needs some special attention tonight if you think you can goad me.”

Now, for the first time today, Valjean’s eyelids fluttered open in shock, and he gazed at Javert with that old wariness.

But even so he did as he was told, hesitantly but obediently arranging his well-disciplined body across Javert’s knees, his buttocks raised over Javert lap. Javert exhaled in deep satisfaction at the view.

“I should have done this from the start,” he said softly. “You need a heavy hand, don’t you?”

There was something about the sight that was even more satisfying than when he’d had Valjean at his disposal earlier, bared for the crop. But this way, with Valjean’s naked body splayed across his lap, his vulnerability was so potent Javert could almost taste it—despite his strength, Valjean was as helpless as a child.

Javert drew in a deep breath, then reached out to grab hold of Valjean’s wrists, gathering them in one hand and holding them captive against the small of Valjean’s back.

Valjean exhaled nervously. Javert could feel the change in him as well. Where he’d offered himself up wordlessly to the crop, unafraid of the pain even though it had hurt enough to drive tears to his eyes, now he was tense with nerves, as wary as he’d been when he’d first come into Javert’s bed.

Perhaps it was because now as then he hadn’t known what to expect.

But then, he had to have an idea of what Javert wanted, or he wouldn’t be so nervous. It couldn’t be fear of the pain, because it was true that Valjean had known far worse. Still, right now, naked over Javert’s lap, he was at his most powerless. It was that awareness that heated Javert’s blood and sharpened his desire until he could barely breathe past the hunger—and it had to be the same awareness that made Valjean’s powerful body tremble despite his willing submission.

Javert smiled as he used his free hand to stroke Valjean’s backside, tracing a hot welt with his thumb. Then he raised his hand.

The well-rounded buttocks quivered at the impact, a gasp escaping Valjean.

“I can’t say what I like more. The riding crop, or merely using my hand. Shall we find out?”

Javert didn’t wait for an answer before he struck Valjean again, the already well-punished skin turning pink beneath his palm while Valjean groaned. He dug his fingers into the skin for a moment, laughing when that made Valjean squirm.

“I think you like this less,” he mused, following it up with another hard slap that forced a new groan from Valjean. “But I like the sounds you make.”

In demonstration, he delivered another sharp blow, coming down on the other buttock this time. Again Valjean gasped and tensed, his hands twitching helplessly where Javert still held them captive.

“I should have brought some leather straps from the stable to tie you. Though Delrue would have found something to say about that, wouldn’t he?”

The thought of Delrue’s impertinence made annoyance flare up inside him again. He released it in a flurry of hard slaps against the underside of Valjean’s round buttocks, watching them quiver and bounce at each impact, the shape of his hand leaving pale imprints for a moment before Valjean’s buttocks began to flush.

It brought forth a groan as Valjean shifted helplessly on his lap. Valjean wasn’t truly struggling to escape; they both knew he could have easily pulled free from Javert’s grasp if he wanted too, although they also both knew what the consequences for that would be. Still, there was something about the sounds Valjean made that intrigued Javert.

He had no doubt that it hurt to be disciplined in this way when he’d already chastised Valjean with the riding crop before. But in the prison hulks, Valjean had been silent. He’d refused to make a sound when Javert had him strung up in the guard room. He’d been all brute strength and sullen resistance.

But there was nothing sullen about Valjean now, nothing obstinate. He was still as strong as he’d been then—but his cheeks were wet with tears, and in the position he was in, Javert could feel every tremor that ran through his body, every flinch and tensing of his muscles when Javert’s hand came down with a resounding slap.

Perhaps he judged Valjean too harshly at times. He’d come far since the hulks. For all his obstinacy, he’d learned to surrender. Who’d have thought, after all, that one day he’d have the beloved mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer across his knees, his backside turning a bright shade of red beneath Javert’s hand—and that he would have put himself into that position willingly?

Javert gentled the fall of his hand somewhat, no longer aiming to bruise but merely to enjoy watching the firm, round muscles bounce at each slap. He could barely make out the red welts the crop had left; all of Valjean’s buttocks were glowing red now, giving off an immense heat when Javert ceased at last and allowed his hand to curve possessively around a cheek.

In the silence that followed, he could hear Valjean’s heavy breathing, his breath hitching when Javert trailed his fingers gently over his skin.

“I can’t say,” Javert said finally. “The crop or my hand—I truly couldn’t say what I prefer. This is more of an exertion, of course, but perhaps a better lesson for you... Still, I like the view.”

He released Valjean’s wrists. Weakly, they sank down to rest by Valjean’s side. Although Valjean’s breath still came in small sobs, he made no motion to move.

Javert smiled. He trailed his finger up the crease between Valjean’s buttocks, circling his hole, the muscle still tightly clenched at his exploration.

“But I’ve worked up an appetite now. Hands and knees, Valjean.”

This time, the sight was even better, Valjean’s backside bright red, his head lowered as he presented himself to Javert. Javert ran his hand up Valjean’s thigh in delight, deep satisfaction warring with an even deeper hunger.

If he wanted, he could probably take him dry; he doubted that Valjean would protest. Or he could take out the riding crop again and see if he could achieve a brighter red—see how far he could go, how much Valjean would take.

Was there anything Valjean couldn’t take?

He stroked up and down his thigh in admiration, listening to Valjean’s gasping breath. Was there anything more rewarding than turning willful disobedience into such pleasing surrender? Even the willing obedience of Valjean’s fine Spanish gelding wasn’t as visceral a pleasure as the sight of Valjean’s sweaty skin and bent head.

Thoughtfully, Javert trailed his hand further upward, running his fingertips along the arched line of Valjean’s spine. Valjean’s hair was dark with sweat where it touched his nape, and when Javert gently drew his fingers through the tousled locks, Valjean didn’t even flinch as he once had at every touch to his head.

Yes, he’d come far. Perhaps this was a time to be more lenient, to reward Valjean rather than harshly demand more.

And yet, for some reason, the sight of such surrender only intensified the ravenous hunger that had kept Javert’s cock hard and aching ever since he’d first taken up the crop.

A moment later, Javert rose, his decision made. He went to his desk where he opened a drawer. Within awaited the bit covered in spikes, which he’d bought from Father Boulet and made Valjean clean and polish.

Thoughtfully, his fingers lingered on it.

Then he took hold of a different mouthpiece he’d kept inside the drawer for several weeks now together with a few straps of leather. When he turned back to Valjean, the iron rings attached to the bit made a jingling sound. Valjean stiffened immediately in response. But from this corner of the room, Javert could also see that despite Valjean’s air of suffering, he’d begun to harden, his cock flushed almost as red as his bottom.

Javert’s smile widened. He gently shook the bit in his hand to let the metal jingle again, pleased to see that despite the way Valjean’s shoulders instinctively hunched, he didn’t look up as Javert approached.

Javert looked down, enjoying the view as he waited for a long moment. Then he placed the bit on his palm and offered it to Valjean as he’d offer it to a horse.

Instinct made Valjean flinch backwards at first, although he remained on his hands and knees. There was something wild and dazed to his eyes. Javert allowed himself to reach out again, gently running his hand down Valjean’s back as he kept holding out the bit on his palm in front of Valjean’s mouth.

He could feel Valjean shudder as his eyes came to rest on it—but even then Javert could feel the surrender in him before he could see it. He knew that Valjean was going to bend this time. His hesitation wasn’t the old obstinacy, but merely the wariness of a horse yet unused to its master.

Javert could feel Valjean’s breath coming in short little gasps against his hand. In his palm, the bit was still waiting—a simple bar of iron with rings at its end to which the reins would attach rather than the cruel bit covered in spikes.

Valjean breathed against his palm. Javert smoothed his hand over his back, watching, waiting.

Then, with a sigh, Valjean’s head bent and his soft lips touched Javert’s palm as he hesitantly took the offered bit into his mouth.

Javert swallowed thickly at the sight, the hunger in his stomach twisting and turning as his cock throbbed, every pulse of blood like the stab of a blade. He ignored his need for a moment, making a pleased sound as he drew his thumb along Valjean’s cheek. Then he took hold of the straps of leather he’d fastened to the rings on each side of the mouthpiece. Shorter than reins, these sufficed to wrap around Valjean’s head. Javert took hold of them now, gently tightening them until he could fasten them at the back of Valjean’s head.

“Good,” he said soothingly, grasping Valjean’s chin to tilt his head up. The bit dug into the corners of his mouth, but not enough to cause pain, merely discomfort.

Valjean’s eyes were dark and wide as he looked up at Javert, his breath coming hot and fast. His cheeks still glistened with the tracks of his tears, new tears brimming in his eyelashes, gleaming in the fading sunlight that fell in through the window.

Javert bent forward to brush his lips against Valjean’s wet cheek, then kissed him lingeringly, sliding his tongue into the gap of his mouth forced open by the cruel steel.

“There. Very good,” he murmured again. “I want to fuck you now. It’ll probably hurt, but I don’t think you’ll mind.”

Valjean exhaled shakily, then shook his head, eyes still dark and dazed like those of a spooked horse, although Valjean didn’t appear frightened at all—just stunned and uncertain and helpless. Javert had never seen him like this before, not even in Toulon where they’d laid open his back with the whip.

“Who knows, you might even enjoy it.” 

Gently, he ran his hand along Valjean’s side. The he reached below him, casually wrapping his hand around Valjean’s cock, not surprised to find that he’d further hardened, his cock curving up against his stomach.

The touch brought him a shocked little gasp, muffled by the bit, and the instinctive thrust of Valjean’s hips forward into his tight hole formed by his hand.

“Shh.” Javert slowly stroked his cock. “You’re not going to come, not today. I want you to remember the beating, and my pleasure.”

Valjean exhaled again, his eyes so wide they almost seemed black in the fading light. Then he inclined his head, the muscular neck bending to Javert’s will, and Javert gave his swollen cock another loving tug before he released him to light the lamp.

His body was on fire. With every beat of his heart, pain seared through Valjean, the skin of his buttocks aflame and pulsing with heat. When Javert touched him again, fingers slick with oil spreading him open, Valjean gasped and moaned, the sound muffled by the iron bit. It dug into the corners of his mouth as he panted for breath. Then Javert slid two fingers inside him and Valjean arched, his body hungry for it despite the pain.

He knew it would hurt to have Javert take him—with every thrust, Javert would bruise already reddened skin. Even so, he ached for it, spreading his thighs wider as he pressed his face into the cool sheets, panting in helpless expectation.

Then Javert’s hands were on his hips, holding him still. A moment later, Javert slid into him. The pain of it was exquisite, Javert’s skin hot like fire as it rasped against his own. Javert’s cock forced him open and filled him, settling hot and solid deep inside him while Valjean arched further. The sensation of it was almost enough to forget the pain of his smarting buttocks—but then Javert pulled back, only to thrust inside in a long, smooth movement, and the moment when his hips met Valjean’s felt like another blow of the crop.

Valjean panted into the sheets, clenching his fingers around the fabric as he groaned and raised his hips higher. With a laugh, Javert obliged him, thrusting into him once more, fanning the heat inside Valjean until the burn of it was almost as fierce as the burn of his reddened skin. Again and again Javert took him, the slap of skin against skin accompanied each time by a burst of hot pain—and yet Valjean was still trembling with need, pushing mindlessly back against Javert to feel him deeper, harder, to surrender everything to him as he’d demanded.

Dimly, Valjean could hear the sounds he was making—moans that were more like sobs, desperate and unintelligible, muffled by the bit so that they seemed more like the sounds a wild animal would make.

His cheeks were still wet with tears. With every thrust, more tears welled up as Javert set his body on fire, inside and out. He could feel himself clenching around Javert, could hear the sounds Javert made: Javert’s own breath coming in quick gasps, exhaling satisfied moans every time he buried himself in Valjean. Javert’s fingers dug into his hips, hard enough to leave bruises, and still Valjean found himself pushing back, arching into the pain and the heat until he was past words, past thought, his entire world concentrated on the heat of Javert’s skin against his own, the scent of his sweat and the red-hot agony of his surrender.

Then Javert’s thrusts began to falter. As if from a distant, Valjean could feel Javert’s release approach, dimly conscious of Javert’s moan of pleasure, the softness of his mouth against his nape, the heat of his spend filling his body. 

His own body was still thrumming with a heat that was sharp like a knife scraping over his nerves, his cock curving hard and wet against his stomach—but the ache of his body’s need for release was just a small part of the sensations pulsating within him, easily ignored as he found himself trembling at Javert’s pleasure, the sound of Javert’s heavy breathing and the agony of his chastised skin.

With a deep, satisfied sigh Javert collapsed beside him at last. A moment later, Valjean found himself pulled against him. He gasped when his erect cock brushed against Javert’s thigh, but then fell quiet. The steady, sharp pulse of his arousal came in time now with the throb of his aching buttocks, steady as the waves on the ocean—like the waves that had once lapped at the wooden hulks in Toulon, soothing him to sleep. Now he found himself floating above it, aware of the pain but not quite a part of it, content to be merely drifting this way and that on the current.

“That was good,” Javert murmured drowsily, pleased.

Valjean closed his eyes when Javert’s lips brushed against his wet cheeks again, then traveled up to kiss the tears from his eyes, Javert’s breath still ragged.

Slowly, Javert made his way downward, following the trail of tears. When he licked at Valjean’s gagged mouth, Valjean found another muffled moan escaping, his hand closing around Javert’s shoulder as Javert licked into his mouth. The iron bar had warmed, and Valjean pressed his tongue against it, moaning again as he tried to seek out Javert’s tongue despite the way the bit still dug into the corners of his mouth.

“I knew this would suit you.” Javert’s voice came low and satisfied in the silence of the room. “The proud stallion, finally broken to my touch. And what a magnificent sight you are like this. All mine.”

Javert’s thumb drew along Valjean’s bottom lip, then touched the iron where it bit into the corner of Valjean’s mouth, wet with saliva. A moment later, Javert reached out for the fastening at the back of Valjean’s head, undoing it and easing the bit out of his mouth with careful fingers.

Slowly, Valjean worked his mouth, shifting his jaw. Javert ran his fingers along his mouth again, then pushing them inside.

His heart still racing in his chest, his cock still aching against Javert’s hips, Valjean opened his mouth obediently to let Javert play with him as he would, wrapping his tongue around Javert’s fingers to suck the salt from them.

“Good,” Javert murmured again, then sighed, a rare smile on his face as he drew back and stretched. “You were right. This has lifted my mood. Now sleep. I want to feel you hard against me when I fall asleep.”

His body was still alight with fire, but Javert was right—he was exhausted. And although his body was still thrumming with the strange pulse of mingled arousal and agony, it was not difficult at all to rest his head on Javert’s chest, his cock still pressed to Javert’s thigh, and let Javert’s heartbeat soothe him to sleep.

***

When he woke, Javert was already up and awake. The experience was strangely disorienting—on any other day, Javert’s movements would have woken Valjean, who in either case always woke with the first rays of the sun to see to his duties.

Valjean blearily pushed himself up, gazing in confusion around the room. Javert turned back to look at him from the wash basin. Javert was still naked, his skin wet with drops of water trailing down his chest, and Valjean found himself blushing at the sight when he remembered what had come to pass the night before.

“Awake at last?” Valjean had thought Javert would be displeased that he had missed his morning duties, but instead Javert sounded unusually happy. “How do you feel?”

Valjean shifted on the bed, then grimaced when his sore skin at last came into contact with the sheets. “Sore, sir. But it’s nothing that would keep me from work.”

“Good. I think I’ll send you to the hospital today. They’re in need of someone who can read and write. You’ll probably regret sitting down for it, but I don’t want you in the stables today.”

“You could send Fantine with me, sir,” Valjean said after a moment. She had to be worried about him after his night in the cells. And he’d never helped her practice, as he’d promised. “She’s been learning to read and write. She knows enough that she’ll be able to help the sisters with their inventory.”

Javert gave him a considering look, thoughtfully licking his lip. “Why not,” he then said. “But take care, Valjean. Don’t make me regret my leniency.”

“No, sir.” Valjean slowly rose from the bed.

“Turn around. Let me look at you.”

When Valjean obeyed, Javert slowly came closer. He drew in a sudden breath, then laughed softly.

“I was thorough last night, wasn’t I?” Javert sounded pleased—almost tender, although new pain sprung up when he ran his thumb along a welt.

“You’ll feel this for a while. But it’ll heal well. No broken skin. Nothing that will leave a scar. Nothing that won’t heal after a few days of discomfort.”

His hand sought out the knotted scars that ran across Valjean’s shoulders. Valjean could feel him follow a line that ran all the way from the tip of his shoulder to his waist, the sensation strangely dull, as was true for most of the scarred skin.

“In the hulks, they scourged your skin,” Javert murmured. “Nothing I’ve done yesterday will be visible for more than a few days. And yet it finally gave me the true surrender I always knew you were capable of. Why is that, Valjean? Is my cock so much better than what you had in the hulks?”

Beneath his touch, Valjean found himself trembling. Javert’s hand trailed downward again, possessively curving around a buttock, pain pulsing through Valjean again. The mere touch was almost more sensation than he could bear on his raw, sensitive skin.

It brought back the sensation of being pushed into position across Javert’s lap, the feeling of his hands pinned at the small of his back, his helplessness—and the adoring way Javert had kissed his face later, tasting his tears, holding him, seeing him, possessing him until Valjean could feel himself dissolve…

“Don’t you know,” he forced out, raw and helpless and trembling as Javert gently stroked the welts he had left, “don’t you know that no one ever touched me before? Don’t you know what you’re doing to me? That no one has ever…”

His voice broke. He couldn’t continue, his throat aching and tight as his eyes burned. He clenched his hands into fists and bent his head. He’d never felt so helpless before.

Behind him, Javert drew in a deep, shocked breath. Then Javert turned him around and grasped his chin to make him look up.

“What are you saying?” Javert demanded in a rough voice. “Do you want me to believe that—but you came to my bed so readily. The way you offered yourself—”

“I thought it was what you wanted. I said I’d surrender myself to you—willingly. And I did.”

“Truly…” Javert gazed at him with shocked hunger that rapidly bloomed into delight.

Even now, Valjean couldn’t look away from him—even now, with his body aching from the discipline Javert’s crop and his hand had delivered, he found himself watching the way Javert’s lips began to form a smile, the way amusement transformed his face, softened his stern expression, his eyes warm and hungry as they gazed at him.

“You know, I don’t think you are lying,” Javert mused as if that was a surprise, his hand coming up to tenderly trace the lines around Valjean’s mouth. “You never said a word.”

“What would it have changed?” Valjean said desperately.

Javert tilted his head as he gave him a considering look. “I was rough with you, wasn’t I? I would have been more considerate... Still, if that’s true, why do it at all? You were in my bed that first night before I’d even said a word.”

Valjean swallowed thickly, nervously searching Javert’s eyes. Could he admit the truth to him? If Javert were displeased, if Javert wanted to punish him, he’d give him the tools to do it...

But there was no cruelty in Javert’s eyes right now, only a calm consideration, as if Valjean were a fascinating puzzle to solve. He’d never gazed that way at Fantine.

“I was afraid you’d rather have Fantine in your bed if I proved too much of a problem, sir,” he said roughly. “And she shouldn’t suffer for my sins. She’s only in this situation because of me.”

Javert exhaled, amused. “Always that woman with you. Am I truly supposed to believe that you’ve come to my bed these many months just to spare her? No consideration for your own comfort, for the food I feed you, the soft bed?”

“I’ve slept on hard planks for nineteen years. The barracks aren’t so bad.”

Javert made a thoughtful sound, slowly circling Valjean again as he trailed a hand over his skin, finger rubbing against a welt so that Valjean couldn’t help but tense and gasp.

“Is that so. So when you spread your thighs, when you arch your back, when you grow hard just from feeling my cock inside you... All you’re thinking of is saving Fantine?”

Valjean could feel heat rush to his face. He couldn’t think of what to say.

Javert stepped back around him, leaning in so that Valjean could feel his breath against his ear when he spoke. “When you go all quiet and bashful when you kiss me—when you moan with my cock down your throat—when your hole is already red and sore and you keep begging for more… That’s all a lie, Valjean? That’s all just sacrifice?”

Valjean squeezed his eyes shut in despair, as if blocking out the sight of Javert would also block out the images that arose in his mind at Javert’s words.

“How can I help but… I told you, I’ve never—how am I supposed to defend myself against something I’ve never known before?” Valjean cried out at last, shivering when Javert’s hand slid around his waist, his fingers seeking out a nipple.

“You like it when I touch you,” Javert murmured into his ear. “You like my cock. You even like it when I’m forced to discipline you. Let’s not lie to ourselves here.”

Valjean cried out brokenly when Javert pinched his nipple, twisting it until he trembled with the strange mixture of pleasure and agony Javert was so skilled at drawing forth. It was impossible to resist the effect Javert had on him—it had always been impossible. Javert’s touch had always had results, there was no denying that.

“I do everything you say. You can touch me however you want, do whatever you want. Isn’t that enough?”

“I want what I had last night.” Javert’s breath came hot against his skin. “True surrender. I didn’t think you were capable of it, but I was wrong. You’ve changed from the man you were in the hulks. I didn’t think it was possible, but it’s true. The whip never taught you a lasting lesson—but this is different, isn’t it? As much as you like to pretend that you hate all of this, I think we both know that this is what you need. A firm hand to keep you in line.”

“It wasn’t you,” Valjean muttered reluctantly. “You didn’t make me change. I learned that lesson years ago—that goodness and kindness can change a man. That I want to be a different man. And that I’m still—that I’m not a good man. That I’m a thief. A hypocrite, you said it yourself.”

“But if you changed back then, why lie again?” Javert’s words were soft but relentless. “Your entire life here was a lie. You know that. You might want to change—I’m truly starting to believe that, Valjean, which I never thought possible—but you don’t have the willpower to do it. I’ve done it. I’ve walked that path since childhood, and let me tell you, it wasn’t an easy path to choose. But you don’t believe in the law, Valjean, in the right of the state to protect its citizens from people like you. You can’t leave behind what you’ve done.”

Valjean drew in a trembling breath and clenched his hand once more, thinking of the coin and the boy’s helpless despair.

“I know that. I’ve been trying to make up for it ever since.” Valjean shook his head, his eyes burning again when he thought of Fantine. “I fail, no matter what I do…”

“You can’t make up for it. You can’t undo what you are, or what you’ve done.” Javert released his nipple, which throbbed, hot and sore. “You need a strong hand to remind you of that. No more hiding behind lies, Valjean. You can’t be trusted to keep yourself honest. I’ll keep a tight rein on you, and if you’re truly honest about wanting to be good, you’ll learn to yield to the reins. And I think in truth we both already know that surrender won’t be such hardship for you.”

Javert’s new-found good mood rapidly worsened once he left his apartment. It was true that the past evening had sufficiently distracted him from the problems at hand—but it was also true that these problems still existed.

Delrue would have to be dealt with. And unless some cutthroat chose to do Javert a favor and slit Delrue’s throat in a dark alley tonight, he could see no other way of dealing with him than by doing exactly what Delrue wanted—procuring him a better position in some other town. He loathed the mere thought of letting Delrue get the better of him. Still, at least he’d be gone...

When Javert made it to his desk in the station-house, he saw to his relief that Delrue had already gone out. At least he’d be spared the sight of his face today.

Quietly, Javert worked behind his desk all morning, reading reports, writing letters, inspecting passports and dealing with the complaints of a woman who accused her neighbor of having stolen one of her chickens.

By the time noon arrived, Javert was glad to leave the station-house behind. The day was cold and windy, the puddles on the street covered with a thin layer of ice, but at least it was neither raining nor snowing. He’d planned on taking Noiraude out to ride through the lower part of the town, but once he was outside, he change his mind and determinedly made for the hospital instead.

It would only take a few minutes to make certain that everything was as it should be—not that there was any reason it shouldn’t be. A few mere welts wouldn’t keep Valjean from doing his work, and if they did, that would be a reason to let him feel the crop some more, until he remembered what punishments in the hulks had been like.

Fortunately, Valjean was indeed at work when Javert entered the hospital.

Inside, it was warm, the stove burning brightly with the wood Valjean himself had chopped for the sisters of charity. Despite the events of the last night, Valjean was seated on a wooden chair. Javert couldn’t quite repress a smile at the sight and the knowledge of how he’d have to be aching.

Fantine was sitting by Valjean’s side, slowly but diligently copying some list, but even that didn’t impede Javert’s sudden good mood.

Valjean spied him before any of the sisters and rose. There was a slight flush on his face, and although he was good at hiding his pain, he moved just slowly enough that Javert knew how sore he had to be. It was a pleasing sight, and a pleasing knowledge.

“Sir,” Valjean said.

At the sound, Fantine looked up, her face immediately guarded. That sight made Javert smile, too.

“Get back to work. I’m just checking that everything is in order here.”

Valjean lowered his eyes, his flush increasing when he slowly sat down again.

Javert had wanted him out of the stable today to make certain that there wouldn’t be another run-in with Delrue. It seemed that he’d made the right choice—the only thing more pleasing would be to have Valjean sit on a hard chair next to Javert’s own desk, flushing and squirming as he was forced to copy Javert’s letters, with Javert able to enjoy every single muffled gasp of pain.

Unfortunately, that was also impossible—at least for as long as he was trying to avoid having to deal with Delrue’s impertinence again. He was sure that the man would find some way to give him knowing looks.

Perhaps once Delrue was gone... The sooner the better. It wouldn’t do to give the others ideas, as absurd as it seemed to imagine Gilbert trying to blackmail him.

“Everything’s fine, sir.” Fantine glared at him from beneath her long lashes. “Why wouldn’t it be?”

His smile widening, Javert slowly made his way over, sitting down on the corner of their desk.

“I don’t know,” he said. “But in my experience, trouble follows you, Fantine Thibault. Indeed, I’m surprised that Monsieur Robert hasn’t found some excuse to visit the hospital today. I’m sure there could have been some reason—a salve for a burn for one of his farmhands, perhaps? But then, it’s still early.”

Fantine’s lips narrowed and she stopped writing. “He’s been sending winter clothes to my daughter. Because he’s a good, charitable man.”

Unlike Javert, her glare seemed to say. Javert laughed softly, then rose again.

“Perhaps. But I’m afraid that there are fewer charitable men in this world than you seem to believe. Though I suppose there’s always more charity for a pretty woman than for a convict. Isn’t that right, Valjean?”

“Monsieur Robert is a good man,” Valjean said. “I’m not blaming him for turning from me. I lied to him. It’s right that he should help a child who’s done no wrong. Would you truly argue with that, sir?”

“It’s not my place to argue how rich men waste their money.” Privately, he did think that it was a waste of money.

They already paid those inn-keepers for the upkeep of the child. She had food and a roof over her head. There were children in Montreuil who could do with a new winter coat as well—but of course Robert would rather spend his money where it won him the favors of a woman like Fantine.

Not that Javert could blame him for it. It was only natural; Fantine was young and pretty and the sort who was better suited to being a rich man’s mistress than to hard work. Still, it proved that Robert was as much of a hypocrite as Madeleine. In the end, Javert had been right about all of them: about Fantine’s dishonesty, about Valjean’s lies, and about Robert’s much-praised goodness.

The only difference between Robert and Javert was that Robert’s position in life allowed him to disguise his attentions to her as charity, while it had taken Javert over a decade of hard work to reach a position where the attention of someone like Fantine was no more than his due.

***

That evening, Javert wrote to Rivette. They had kept up their correspondence, exchanging letters perhaps once a month—Rivette always eager to hear more of how Javert had unmasked the infamous Jean Valjean, and Javert in turn eager for every scrap of gossip Rivette would share.

In truth, Rivette was not much of a gossip; he lacked the edge Delrue possessed and which Javert had initially thought of so approvingly. In character, he seemed much alike to Gilbert—although unlike Gilbert, Rivette appeared to possess Javert’s own dedication to his work.

It was something that would be useful in a subordinate. Loyalty to such a degree was rare; many of Javert’s own agents felt no such loyalty. None of them, not even Gilbert, would voluntarily spend evenings in the prefecture to catch up with reports that had been neglected by their predecessors for months or years.

By now, Rivette seemed to have managed to win the trust of several of the other agents, although it still seemed as if his diligence and work ethos had caused some upset. Not that Rivette said so in his own words—not a single unkind word about the chief inspector had ever made its way into a letter, and Rivette likewise refrained from complaints about his colleagues. Still, Javert could read between the lines and he knew what sort of reaction he himself had faced when being forced to work with colleagues who had depended on being able to get away with the least amount of work possible.

“Rumor is still that you are going to join us this year,” Rivette had written. “I will not pry for details, of course, but I would be delighted to show you around again. There is a new wine-shop that has opened around the corner; it is popular with our agents and the wine is not bad at all. I hope that one day I will be able to invite you over there for a bottle in return for all the stories you have shared.”

The thought made Javert smile. People rarely desired his company. And if they did, it was usually for the same reasons Delrue had decided to blackmail him: advancement.

But Rivette couldn’t hope for that. He was in a much better position than Javert himself was. Javert might be chief of police of Montreuil—but Montreuil was a provincial town, whereas Rivette was right there at the center of power, working in the prefecture of police.

Once he’d made it there, Javert didn’t doubt that he’d continue to rise, but at least at the start, he wouldn’t wield much more power than Rivette himself. Rivette, of course, would soon be left behind, as Javert had left behind so many other acquaintances. Still, if Rivette could deal with that fact without letting jealousy taint their relationship, Javert might for once have the luxury of a capable subordinate who would lighten his workload instead of increasing it with ineptitude…

“Are you free next weekend?” Javert wrote impulsively. “I have some errands in Paris and would love to take you up on that offer of the wine-shop. I will buy the wine if you share that tale of the poisoner’s arrest.”

He would have to make provisions for Valjean—he didn’t want another repeat of Valjean’s run-in with Delrue. Still, Javert had looked at the roster this morning, and it seemed that Delrue would be gone to visit his uncle’s family, as he sometimes did. Gilbert would be tasked with keeping an eye on the town, as well as the town’s indentured servants. Whatever he might privately think of Gilbert’s effectiveness as an agent of police, he wouldn’t have to fear for Valjean’s virtue, at least.

The mere thought was enough to drive a smile to his lips. No, Gilbert would much rather steal Valjean’s dinner than his trousers. Valjean would be quite safe with him.

***

Paris was much as it had been when Javert had last visited the prefecture. He’d left Noiraude in the police stables and gone inside to greet Rivette, who smiled at him in delight from behind a desk overflowing with files and reports. As on earlier visits, other agents were skulking around, leaning against the wall as Javert passed, and looking no different from the men they were presumably protecting society from. None of the other desks showed the same piles of reports, Javert saw.

He bit back a smile at the observation. If he had his way, that would soon change. A lot of things needed to change. While it was useful—necessary even—for a spy to blend in with the criminals he was observing, there was no need at all for the prefecture’s offices to look like a gambling den. If Javert had his way, there would be order here: respectable, neat clothes, tidy desks and men who stood at attention instead of slouching against walls.

No honest citizen should feel like he’d entered a disreputable gaming-house when coming to the prefecture. If they didn’t want to be taken for criminals, they shouldn’t look like it.

Rivette, at least, looked presentable—neither dirt nor creases marred his clothes, although Javert couldn’t help from noting that his coat looked rather shabby. Perhaps that could not be helped on the salary for a man in his position—and yet Javert had often rather gone with no food but bread and cheese for days rather than appear in ragged clothes in public.

In the hulks, at least, a uniform had been provided to the guards—although that, too, had often been ragged and dirty, the guards not much better in that respect that the slovenly convicts in their sweat-stained shirts.

“You came at just the right time,” Rivette said as he shook his hand. “I’m about done here. Well, not done—there’s always more work waiting. We’d need twice the men to deal with it all. But I’m done for the day. Let me take you to that wine-shop I told you about. I could use some food now.”

“An eventful day?” Javert inquired.

Rivette sighed deeply. “I’ve been inside all day. Still, I’m halfway through everything that’s been piling up on my desk.”

Javert glanced around the office again, taking note of the agents idly gossiping in a corner. It was easy to see why reports piled up on Rivette’s desk—because the other agents were smart enough to make sure that was where they would end up, rather than on their own desks.

“This really is a most welcome distraction,” Rivette said, as soon as they were seated at a table in a corner right by the fire.

It was warm, and although the walls were blackened by the smoke and the table old, the establishment was tolerably clean. It was a far cry from Montreuil’s best inn where he’d dined with the Englishman, but for the sort of wine-shop where police spies would gather, it wasn’t bad.

The food, at least, was plentiful, as Javert found out when it was served not much later by a serving girl perhaps half his age with bright eyes and freckled, golden-brown skin, wearing a neat gown of blue wool. She eyed him with frank curiosity and seemed to see something she liked in the cut of his clothes, for her smile widened as she turned towards Rivette with the ease and affection reserved for a regular customer.

“What is that I see, Monsieur Rivette?” she teased. “Making friends, are we?”

Rivette laughed. “That’s Inspector Javert. From Montreuil-sur-Mer.”

“Visiting you?” She gave Rivette a thoughtful look, then turned her charms onto Javert. “Surely you won’t return to such a place, monsieur? Just wait until you’ve tasted mamma’s cooking. You won’t want to go back to the provinces.”

“I’m afraid I’ll have to,” Javert said, a small smile playing on his lips despite himself. “How about you bring us a bottle of Argenteuil to convince me to return?”

She laughed. “Try the Beaune instead,” she said, eyes gleaming, “and I’ll know we’ll see you again. Papa knows best when it comes to wine; he grew up on the vineyards of Burgundy. After Borodino, he could no longer serve in the army, and there’s no work in the vineyards for a man with only one leg. So he came to Bercy and worked in the wine trade—for Mayor Gallois himself. And now, Monsieur Rivette and his friends are lucky enough to reap the benefits of his knowledge. The best wines for little money in the entire quarter, monsieur.”

“She isn’t wrong,” Rivette said and smiled again. “Let her pick our wine. You won’t be disappointed.”

It turned out that Rivette was right. The bottle they shared was good, the wine a deep red, rich on Javert’s tongue, as satisfying as the food they’d been served.

“And?” Rivette said when the girl brought a second bottle, appearing not to notice how she lingered by his side for a moment. “Has she convinced you to return?”

Javert exhaled, amused. “You already know what I’m hoping for. Once a position opens up…”

“It’ll be very different to your life in Montreuil, I’m sure,” Rivette said, then flushed. “Not that I’m saying—I know you weren’t born in Montreuil—”

“Indeed,” Javert said easily. “Not that I wasn’t grateful for the position in Montreuil, but now that Valjean’s no longer a problem, I think I can be of better use to the prefecture right here, in Paris.”

“How’s that going anyway?” Rivette leaned forward. “That man—Jean Valjean. Has he been causing trouble?”

Now, for the first time, Javert almost regretted having informed Rivette of Valjean’s status as indentured servant in his letters, because all Javert could think of was the moment Valjean had exhaled against his palm and then taken the bit into his mouth, wary but willing, every line of his body speaking of his surrender.

It wasn’t something he could ever talk about. Javert knew that, as much as he knew that having Valjean serve him was no different to how any other in his position would have had Fantine serve his meals and brush his coat and warm his bed.

But then, he demanded more of Valjean—and the surrender he received in return was something he had never thought possible, more intoxicating than his power in the galleys, more potent even than the meager respect that was finally his due as chief of police.

Rivette could understand the deep satisfaction of seeing a criminal serve his punishment after years of hunting him down—but no matter what Rivette might say, he’d never understand the thrill of Valjean’s arched back, the vulnerable lines around his mouth, the way his eyes would focus on Javert as if Javert was the only thing in the world that mattered.

That was more than respect. It went deeper than power.

“He’s been no trouble at all,” Javert said. “Some men are like that—thieves, liars, forgers, but too cowardly by nature to turn to murder. Now that all of his lies have been exposed, there’s nothing for him but the work he’s given by us. The town’s getting the labor of three men out of him.”

“And everyone who sees him labor will think twice about whether it’s worth it to turn to theft or fraud?” Rivette said. “A valuable lesson. You’d be confident to leave him behind in the care of your successor then?”

In truth, as much as Javert liked imagining the new responsibilities of a post in Paris, it seemed impossible to imagine Valjean in Montreuil without Javert there to give guidance to his days. No other man knew him as intimately as Javert did. No other man would be able to see the true surrender that could only be wrested from his unwilling nature by the riding crop, the guiding touch of a hand, the intimate use that like no other tool seemed to strip away all the layers of sullenness until Valjean was bare and vulnerable beneath him.

“He won’t be a problem,” Javert repeated. “Unless the man who takes my place is a fool.”

Rivette smiled, the skin around his eyes crinkling. He had beautiful eyes, Javert suddenly noticed to his great consternation—eyes that looked at him with warmth and admiration, and which might, perhaps, go as dark and wet as Valjean’s when spread out naked and vulnerable beneath him…

“In any case, nothing has been made official yet,” Javert said, forcing his thoughts away from that unexpected path.

Was this what Valjean had done to him?

It was one thing to have a convict, an indentured servant, at his beck and call. People might find it distasteful if they knew—but in the end, they both came from a place just as distasteful.

Rivette, on the other hand, had never been to the hulks. He might be in the employ of the police, but he seemed a good, loyal man who knew the value of hard work. He might yet find some pretty grisette or serving girl willing to settle down with a police agent before she aged entirely out of her beauty. He could have children, rise up another rank or two—maybe end up as some minister’s clerk, filing papers all day instead of mingling with the worst of the scum of the city’s streets.

“Speaking of my aspirations… There’s one of my men who seems ready for more responsibilities. Responsibilities which he won’t find in Montreuil. With how the town has grown in recent years, they’ll want an experienced man to follow me. You wouldn’t have heard of any recent openings?”

“Not in Paris,” Rivette said. “Hard to get a foot in the door here. But I’ll keep my ears open. The more provincial towns often find it harder to attract good people. And if the man comes with a recommendation from you, it can only help.”

The thought of having to write a recommendation still stung, but Javert forced himself to show no sign of it. It wasn’t the first time, and it wouldn’t be the last time, that another man tried to make use of him to further his own career. He should have seen it coming; that was the true trouble here.

He’d started to believe that he knew Delrue, because Delrue was like him: a hard worker who knew the wretches they dealt with better than to show any compassion or leniency. But as he had now learned, a man could be a hard worker and still resort to blackmail when he saw an opportunity.

After what had happened the last time Javert had been absent, Valjean had not quite dared to believe in his good fortune—at least until he overheard Gilbert telling another man that he would oversee the goings-on at the station-house due to Delrue and Javert’s absence.

Such an event was rare, and Valjean was all the more grateful for it, following every order Gilbert gave until at last evening came and he was released to the barracks with the others.

Marie gave him a wry look, but for once the other servants remained silent, focusing on their meal instead. Once that was done, the table cleared, Fantine brought out Valjean’s bible and they sat down together by the candle.

Fantine had made good progress, even though they only had so little time together.

“I was only thinking of how I’ll be able to write my Cosette letters,” she said, “but then, once they let me help the sisters, I realized I could be useful. It’s better work, helping with their inventory, than washing shirts in the ice-cold river. And Sister Margaret offered to let me help her with the accounts. I’d learn numbers and arithmetic while I help her. Just think, when I can finally go to fetch Cosette, she wouldn’t have to live in a cold garret with me while I mend shirts for ten sous. I might be some retired gentleman’s housekeeper somewhere. We’d have a warm room, good food—she could go to school…”

The words stung, even now. If he’d done better by Fantine, if Javert hadn’t come to Montreuil, he might still be mayor. It would have been so easy for him to pay a teacher, to make certain that her daughter had warm clothes, a bed, food and toys—

“If I’d been a better man, you would have all that now.”

Fantine turned away from the Bible to eye him. “I don’t think so. People would have talked. And I was never very good with your jet beads. It wouldn’t have been right to treat me differently. The others were working just as hard.”

“I saw the little bird you made. It’s not true that you had no skill.”

She laughed. “Yes, and I got into trouble for it, didn’t I? Let’s not linger on that now. I should have told you the truth from the start, but I was afraid. You shouldn’t have fired me—but I understand now that you were afraid, and why. Even if you hadn’t fired me, Javert would have put an end to your factory anyway a few months later.”

“You’d be working for Monsieur Robert now,” he said.

“And you’d be suffering in the hulks, isn’t that right? Javert said you made this bargain for me. And I’m glad you did. I couldn’t bear to think of you in such a place.”

Valjean looked down, remembering the misery of those endless years. The mere thought of the torment and the constant blows from guards who thought him no better than an animal seemed sacrilegious when sitting next to Fantine, as if his memories of such a place were tainting her.

Fantine reached out and gently covered his hand with her own. “Come. Listen to me read. I’ve been practicing every evening this week. Poor Marie is quite tired of my psalms now.”

***

On Sunday, Valjean did not go to Mass, although he listened to the church bells and thought of the Bishop of Digne, who had died a year ago. Alone in the barracks, he prayed. Later, when Fantine returned after washing her clothes in the cold Canche, he watched as she wrote another letter to her daughter, helping when it was needed, which was less often now.

The day passed slowly and quietly. It was a relief to have a weekend to himself—to spend his nights in a bed of his own, to wake when the sun woke him and not because of his morning duties in Javert’s bed, to be able to sit with Fantine and watch her progress and believe that there was a way he could yet make up for what he’d done.

Even so, when the door to the barracks opened in the evening and Javert summoned him with a nod to see to Noiraude after her journey, he didn’t feel dread. There was a strange relief in returning to the old routine as well—especially now that he felt that something about their interaction had changed for the better.

It was strange that it should be so. The welts on his skin had only just ceased smarting, after all. But for some reason, despite the fury Javert had unleashed on him, it felt as if there was a new honesty between them.

Or perhaps he was only telling himself another lie to feel better about his surrender to Javert, of all people.

Javert lingered in the stable for a few minutes, watching as Valjean eased the bridle over Noiraude’s head and pulled off the heavy saddle. The mare snorted once and shook her head, her ears still pointing forward in curiosity despite the long ride. As Valjean rubbed her down, he could feel Javert’s eyes on him. Even now, there was no fear; it felt strangely peaceful.

Perhaps it was merely because he’d been shown just a few days ago how different an encounter in the stable might go. Still, he didn’t mind Javert watching. He wasn’t afraid of Javert, as he’d once been. It made no sense, but it was true.

Javert was silent too. All that could be heard was the sound of straw rustling and horses shifting in their stalls. Finally, once Valjean had brushed Noiraude and cleaned her hooves, he straightened, not surprised to find Javert’s eyes still lingering on him.

“How was your journey, sir?”

Javert’s eyes were unreadable, but there was no anger or frustration on his face. His mouth was relaxed; he seemed almost thoughtful.

“Uneventful,” he said. “The way I like it. We made good time.”

The mare chose that moment to turn her neck and nudge Valjean with her head, hard enough to make him stumble forward half a step. He trailed his hand down her neck in apology for making her wait for her oats.

“How did things go here in Montreuil? I take it you didn’t cause any trouble?”

“No, sir,” Valjean said. “And I hope Monsieur Gilbert will agree. I worked, and then on Sunday, I helped Fantine with her letters again. You do not object to that, do you?”

Javert’s lips curled into a half-smile. “Why would I? You may waste your Sunday as you wish.”

“It’s no waste,” Valjean said quietly. “You know that as well as I do.”

When had Javert learned how to read and write? How had he learned?

Growing up the son of criminals, had he been able to take advantage of the same monks who’d tried to teach the convicts in the hulks? Or had there been some superior in Javert’s youth who’d seen potential? Had Javert supplemented a few sparse hours of instruction with long evenings bent over a small book, struggling onward with that same relentless force of will that had made him pursue Valjean so doggedly?

After a moment, Javert inclined his head. “Perhaps. Though I’m less certain than you that your lesson will lead to any lasting effect. A woman like that… But suit yourself. As long as it doesn’t interfere with your duties.”

Javert knew very well that it didn’t. Especially given that most of what should have been Valjean’s sparse free time was spent serving Javert instead.

“It won’t, sir,” Valjean said, swallowing the complaint that he knew would do no good.

Noiraude nudged him again, insistently this time, pawing at the ground in displeasure. Valjean used the opportunity to untie her and lead her into her stall where he watered her again and poured her well-deserved oats.

Then he followed Javert into his apartment. He took Javert’s coat and hung it up to be brushed later, then helped him out of his boots, which he also set aside. They were dusty from the long ride and would need to be cleaned before the morning.

Javert stood at his desk meanwhile, glancing at the letters that had come for him although he set them aside without opening them a moment later.

“Heat some water,” he said. “I want to wash. And pour me a glass of wine.”

“Shall I fetch your dinner as well, sir?”

Javert shook his head. “Later. First I need to get the dust of the road off me. And then you can wash yourself; you smell of the stable.”

Obediently, Valjean went to make a fire in the stove and heat water. When he took a wineglass from Javert’s cupboard, Javert stopped him before he could reach for one of the bottles there and instead pointed at the bag he’d brought with him from Paris.

“There’s a bottle of wine in there. A nice Beaune. Open that one instead.”

By the time he had poured Javert’s wine and placed it on a table by the stove, the water had warmed enough that he could pour it into the washing bowl and begin to undress Javert.

Javert stood silently as Valjean drew his cravat free and unbuttoned his waistcoat. By the time only the shirt was left, Javert had turned away from the window to gaze at Valjean, who bore his gaze quietly while he took hold of the hem of Javert’s shirt and drew it off, baring Javert’s body to his gaze. Javert smelled of warm skin and faintly of horse and sweat. The scent was familiar, and so was Javert’s body. Even so, although for once it was Javert who was bared and Valjean who was still dressed, it was Valjean who felt vulnerable.

Javert remained silent, appearing utterly at ease with his nudity. He watched as Valjean dipped the cloth into the warm water. Droplets ran down his chest as Valjean began to wash him. Beneath his skin, muscles shifted. Valjean watched Javert’s collarbone, thought of pressing his mouth to it, then dragged his eyes away, uncertain.

When he went to his knees and carefully washed Javert’s soft cock, smoothing the warm, wet cloth over Javert’s thighs and his balls, Javert’s stomach flexed and his cock began to rise. It was hard to look away from him. 

“Later,” Javert said when Valjean gazed up at him.

“You won’t have this in Paris,” Valjean murmured, dragging the wet cloth down Javert’s leg instead.

Javert’s skin was warm and smooth, his limbs firm. He could still remember how it had felt to kneel before Javert the first time, the humiliation and the shame of it and the terror of what was to come.

Maybe that was the reason it was so much easier now. There was no terror, no fear, because he knew what was to come.

It would be easy to believe that, but Valjean knew that wasn’t right. He felt at ease around Javert now. Perhaps Javert had succeeded in what he wanted. He’d tamed him like a wild animal.

Javert’s hand came down, his thumb tracing Valjean’s cheek, then gently grasping his chin so that Valjean had to cease and gaze up at Javert.

“You’re right,” Javert said. “I won’t.”

The pad of Javert’s thumb lingered, gently pressing down on his bottom lip. Valjean’s mouth parted, his tongue wrapping around Javert’s thumb before he’d even realized what he was doing, and Javert exhaled heavily.

“If you’re trying to make me wonder if it will be worth it to give this up, you’re succeeding.”

Valjean remained silent. He didn’t know what to say. What could he say?


What if you remained here?


But he couldn’t possibly want that—could he? He shouldn’t want it. Once Javert was gone, once Regnier was gone, Robert had promised him his help.

Still, over the past weeks and months they’d settled into a routine, Javert and he. It was almost comfortable now. With Javert, at least, he knew what to expect.

He remained silent as he dried Javert and then wrapped his dressing gown around him.

“Wash,” Javert said as he retreated to his armchair by the fire where his wine was waiting.

Valjean did as he was told, trying not to think about what was to come as he ran the wet cloth over his own body. He used Javert’s soap to wash away the scent of horses and dust until his skin was clean and smelled of Javert instead. He dried himself, and at a nod from Javert, abandoned his clothes to walk over to Javert naked, going to his knees without being prompted.

Javert had opened his letters and started to go through them, but at Valjean’s approach, placed them down onto the table to run his fingers through Valjean’s hair instead.

“It’s been a long day,” he said. “Make it last.”

He took up his letters once more as Valjean’s hands went his belt, slowly pulling it apart and baring Javert’s skin. The scent of his soap was more intense here, but already it was mingled with the warm, heady scent of Javert’s arousal, his cock firm and inviting where it rested against his thigh.

As Valjean moved forward to kneel between his legs, Javert sprawled back in his chair. Valjean pressed his mouth to Javert’s thigh, slowly working his way up until he reached Javert’s cock. When he drew it into his mouth, Javert sighed heavily, the rustling of paper stopping for a moment until Valjean had him fully in his mouth, tracing him with his tongue as if to learn his shape all over again. Valjean could feel the pulse of Javert’s blood against his tongue, the scent of his arousal stronger now, just as the taste of it spread in his mouth.

Valjean drew back a little and lovingly ran his tongue around the tip of Javert’s cock until another bead of fluid welled up. He drew his tongue over it, lapping it up from the small slit, then wrapped his lips around the crown again, circling it with his tongue.

Javert’s hand came to curve around his neck in approval, warm and heavy. When Valjean drew him into his mouth once more, relaxing his throat until he could press his nose into the warm, wiry curls at the root of Javert’s shaft, Javert’s hand returned to his hair, stroking him as Valjean paused, Javert’s cock hot and large as it stretched his throat.

He remained there for as long as he could, then drew back to breathe, the fingers of Javert’s hand still tangled in his hair while Javert’s cock rested on his tongue.

Paper rustled again, then there was the sound of a glass being lifted. Javert’s finger traced along Valjean’s ear, then down to his open mouth. His thumb trailed gently around Valjean’s spread lips until Valjean sank forward again, obediently swallowing around Javert’s cock, his senses filled by Javert’s taste and his scent and the warmth of his spread thighs surrounding him.

“You learn so well when you set your mind to it. Such a mouth... Made for this.”

The wineglass scraped against the table as it was put down again, then the crinkling of paper resumed before fingers trailed through Valjean’s hair once more. He found himself panting when he drew back for breath. Even so he sank back down again a minute later, feeling the smooth, wet glans slide over his tongue, then deep down into his throat, wiry hair tickling his nose. Saliva dripped from his lips and he flushed in embarrassment while Javert released a deep, tired sigh of satisfaction.

Valjean managed to make it last for a few more minutes, Javert as hard as iron when he finally spilled himself in his throat with a gratified moan.

Valjean swallowed all of him, his lips tingling and swollen when he finally drew back with the taste of Javert still heavy on his tongue.

Heavy-lidded and pleased, Javert gazed at him, sprawled in his chair. His dressing gown had fallen fully open, baring his body to Valjean’s gaze. His cock was softening now, still wet from Valjean’s mouth, his nipples tight and erect. In the light of the stove, the thin layer of perspiration on his skin gleamed. Valjean felt a sudden urge to lean forward and press his tongue to the shifting shadows playing across his stomach.

Instead, he sat gazing at Javert, licking at his swollen lips until Javert smiled.

“Such a mouth,” Javert murmured again.

His bare foot nudged at Valjean’s knee, and Valjean settled back onto his heels, spreading his thighs wider so that Javert could see for himself that sucking Javert’s cock had caused him to harden. The thought didn’t even make him flush anymore; Javert had known for a long while now that Valjean’s body had no objections to the things he demanded, no matter what Valjean himself might claim.

“Touch yourself,” Javert said, still sprawled languorously in his chair. He reached out for his glass of wine without bothering to retie his dressing gown, and Valjean found his gaze once more drawn to Javert’s cock and the way it gleamed in the flickering light.

Valjean swallowed, then lightly wrapped his hand around himself. It was good; he’d been aching for a touch, and he hadn’t thought he’d find release tonight, not with Javert already sated.

“You won’t have this in Paris, sir,” he dared to point out—not entirely certain why, when Javert was so mellow today. Not when there was no reason for him to entice Javert to stay. Whatever Robert was hoping for, it would be much harder to achieve with Javert right here, guarding him like a farmer his prize bull.

“No. I won’t,” Javert said softly. For once, he seemed almost troubled.

Delrue was still a problem. Javert was reminded of that fact as soon as he entered the station-house on the following Monday and found himself face to face with him, Delrue’s knowing little smile setting his teeth on edge.

What did he owe Delrue? Nothing. Who would believe the slander of a man like that? What would it matter once Javert was in Paris?

But it was true that Delrue could make his life in Montreuil more difficult if he chose. Delrue had family and friends in this place, Javert had none. Perhaps, if he was summoned to Paris before the month was over...

Still, Javert couldn’t be careless now when he’d come so far. He’d wanted that position in the Prefecture for many years; he’d worked towards it. He wouldn’t let a man like Delrue ruin his plans.

Fortunately, Delrue was out of his sight on most days. It was still cold, which drove men into inns, and the wine in turn drove up theft and quarrels escalating into fistfights more often than not. In combination with the garrison stationed in the town, whose men were just as much given to wine, cheap women and fights, there was plenty to do to keep Delrue and his other agents busy.

It appeared that the cold had not sufficed to keep Robert busy, whom Javert encountered in one of the narrow alleys of the lower town, seated on a chestnut mare who shook her head in displeasure when Robert reined her in next to Javert.

He’d taken Doré out of the stable this morning for his first patrol through the town. Once again a rush of pleasure filled him at Robert’s expression when he found Javert riding the former mayor’s fine Spanish horse with its golden coat.

It was a pity Javert wouldn’t be able to take the gelding to Paris with him, but then it wouldn’t do to kindle jealousy from the first day of his arrival at the Prefecture. Let them grow used to him before his first promotion. In time, he’d have everything he’d ever wanted—even if that wouldn’t include Valjean’s fine horse.

“Ah, Javert. Always busy protecting the town from criminals, I see.”

Javert smiled slowly as he looked Robert up and down in turn.

Robert looked as if he’d just come from his mills, dressed more like a workingman than a gentleman. But then, such a pretense of humbleness had worked for Madeleine. Perhaps Robert was smarter than Javert thought and hoped to employ the same strategy to rise...

And yet, Robert had land and money enough that he could have been mayor before Madeleine, if he’d wanted to.

“Crime doesn’t take a break just because there’s ice on the river, monsieur,” Javert said curtly. “Indeed, the darkness makes it easier.” 

“What would we do without you, Javert!” Robert laughed—because he was a man who could laugh at Javert’s work, as if Javert’s diligence was a joke. As if Javert didn’t know firsthand the things men at the bottom of society were capable of.

“I’m certain you will do just fine. Another inspector would do much the same as I’ve done. You wouldn’t notice a difference if I were gone.”

“Are you planning on leaving us then?”

Javert gave him another noncommittal smile. “It is hard to say where my work will take me.”

Privately, he wondered what interest Robert might have in his departure from Montreuil. Perhaps Javert’s presence was a source of embarrassment to him. It was true that Javert’s pivotal part in unmasking Madeleine would forever remind Robert and the citizens of Montreuil of Robert’s misplaced support for a man who had turned out to be a convict.

“I’m certain you will make it far,” Robert said. “Given your dedication.”

He didn’t look like he meant it.

Robert had always been easy to read. There was something boyish about him, despite his age and the land he possessed. It was no wonder at all that he’d believed all of Valjean’s lies. Robert had the wide-eyed look of a man who was only waiting to be taken advantage of. It was probably only his position in the town that had ensured that Robert had never fallen victim to some fraud before Valjean’s arrival here.

“I’m only doing my duty, sir,” Javert said with as much politeness as he could muster. “Any other man in my position will be just as diligent in rooting out corruption and keeping the citizens of this fine town safe.”

“Still. From what I’ve heard, your dedication and vigilance was met with approval even in Paris’ newspapers. And the way you dealt with the situation here seems to have been most successful. Valjean hasn’t caused any trouble, as one might have assumed. No escape attempts. No attacks on honest citizens.”

Javert felt his lips twitching with satisfaction at the thought of how easily Valjean went to his knees nowadays. It was a pity Robert would never see how that proud neck could bend for Javert.

“It’s because I know men like him. As you are no doubt aware, I knew him in the prison hulks of Toulon. I’ve known men like him all my life. He needs a firm hand. It’s the only way such men will learn.”

Robert gazed at him for a moment before he spoke. “Whatever you are doing, it seems to be working.”

Robert’s brows were drawn together, and there was a pained cast to his mouth. How strange. It was not the sort of reaction one would expect from a man embarrassed by his former friendship with a criminal.

Had Delrue already begun to spread his slander?

Yet even if he had, why would it upset Robert? Robert might be embarrassed to hear such things talked about, but unless he still harbored some sort of ill-placed empathy for Valjean, why would it pain him to know that Valjean was taught his place by Javert? Tradition gave him that right—just as another man who didn’t know Valjean would have had Fantine serve him.

It would be good to leave all of this behind for Paris. Even if that meant having to do without the services of Valjean.

Still, Javert had lived without the luxury of his own private servant for most of his life. He’d adapt to life in Paris easily enough. Even if it meant mornings without Valjean’s soft, well-trained mouth...

***

The conversation with Robert had reminded Javert that he was not a single step closer to finding a solution for the Delrue problem. He’d been nearly prepared to ask Robert whether his factory might not be in need of a new foreman, but something about the way Robert looked at him still made him bristle.

It wasn’t as if Javert wasn’t used to varying degrees of condescension from the notables of the town—yet for some reason when it came from Robert it felt personal, though Javert had no idea why. He’d exposed Madeleine and in doing so tainted Robert’s friendship with him—but could that truly be all?

In any case, Javert wasn’t yet ready to sink as far as to ask Robert for help. He had a month to come up with some sort of way to get Delrue out of his hair. Surely something could be found.

In the end, help came from an unexpected quarter. Neither Robert nor Rivette had found an opening for him, and Javert was not yet so desperate as to write to Gisquet himself—an act, he was certain, that wouldn’t endear him to the chief inspector. One didn’t ask for favors before one had even started a position that as of now was only a promise.

It was with two weeks left of Delrue’s ultimatum that Javert found himself called to Arras once more.

The matter was a case that was easily dealt with—a man Javert could identify, since he had come through Montreuil a week ago. Javert’s signature was on his passport, and the date next to it was exactly one day before a man had been robbed on the road from Montreuil to Arras.

Given the victim’s description of the villain, there was no doubt at all of the man’s guilt, and Javert’s statement took so little time that he was certain to make it back to Montreuil before sunset. Despite the triviality of the case, Arras’ mayor had been in attendance as well, and Javert had felt no small amount of satisfaction at seeing the man acknowledge his presence with a grave nod.

Unlike Regnier, Mayor Maniez seemed to value Javert’s work—perhaps because Arras had gained the glory of unmasking Valjean at court while the shame of having been fooled by a convict rested solely on the town of Montreuil. Javert did not care much for the reason, although the mayor’s respect was a balm for his wounded pride. Let Delrue try to blackmail him; let Regnier sneer at him—there were others who saw the value of his work.

“Ah, Inspector,” one of the police agents waiting outside the court room said when he left after his statement. “Do you have a moment? I could use another pair of hands to deal with the next brute up for trial.”

Javert raised a brow as he surveyed the corridor. There was supposed to be another guard waiting here; it was considered too dangerous to handle a prisoner alone.

“What happened? Did he give you trouble?”

“Ah, it’s not that,” the man said. “It’s just that Ansart wasn’t feeling well.”

He grimaced awkwardly. Javert understood well enough what he’d been trying to say, for the turnkey had a certain reputation well-known to Javert. Without a doubt, the man was drunk again. Last year, Javert had been able to smell the wine on his breath when he’d brought in the prisoner they’d assumed to be Jean Valjean, and who had turned out to be a vagabond named Champmathieu.

“It’s not—you know,” the guard said awkwardly. “He’s been feeling the cold more this winter. Makes his bones ache and his limbs stiffen.”

And without a doubt, Ansart had used that as an excuse to cure his pain with brandy. A foul habit in a turnkey—but then, this wasn’t Javert’s town, and it wasn’t his place to criticize how things were handled here.

It turned out that the next prisoner about to face the judge was the sly, narrow-eyed sort who took one look at Javert before hastening to do as he was told with an obsequious little smile—as if Javert could be fooled by such things. Regardless, it made the task easy enough, and Javert saw no harm in waiting until the prisoner would be called inside. It was still early, after all, and his horse was fast.

When the door opened at last and the man was summoned inside to face the judge, Javert waited long enough to make certain that there would be no trouble subduing the man who’d just been sentenced after Javert had identified him. He was already in shackles when he was led out, followed by a group of several of the town’s notables who seemed to have had their fill of the day’s entertainment.

Among them was the mayor of Arras, Javert saw when he found himself suddenly face to face with the man, just as he’d reached out to make sure that the cuffs on their prisoner were secure.

“Ah, Javert. I am surprised—how is it that Ansart has you do the work of his men?” the mayor inquired. There was no smile on his face; Mayor Maniez was a stern man and of a disposition that Javert had found himself approving of, the few times he had encountered him.

Maniez was well-respected in the area. Javert, too, had never had a reason to complain about him; unlike false Madeleine, the man he was facing now had never preached of compassion and knew very well that the prosperity of his town demanded that men like Javert ensured the safety of his citizens.

Respectfully, Javert inclined his head. “Monsieur le Maire,” he said. “I was merely assisting for a moment.”

The expression on the mayor’s face showed that he did not entirely believe Javert. “How strange. I believe that is the task of our turnkey. Is he so busy that he cannot come do his work here? It’s commendable that you would help out, Javert—indeed, I wouldn’t have expected anything less from a man with your reputation. But that is hardly the impression we want to give visitors of our town.”

The guard was sweating visibly, his eyes going from Javert to the mayor before he finally decided to protect his own hide rather than that of his unreliable superior. “He’s not feeling well, sir,” he blurted out. “Truly, sir, there should be two of us handling a prisoner; it’s the regulations. But what can I do—”

The mayor’s smile grew grave. “Ansart is past the age one should consider retirement, isn’t he,” he said. “Perhaps it is time someone had a talk with him.”

Instead of an answer, the guard hunched his shoulders awkwardly and wrestled their prisoner down the corridor. Javert wasn’t entirely surprised to find that the mayor had followed them when they reached the courtyard, where two other convicts sentenced earlier were already waiting in their chains.

“A word, Javert,” Maniez said when the prisoner was finally handed over. He waited until they were out of earshot of the guards before he continued talking. “How are things in Montreuil? I have to admit, it’s still difficult to believe what has happened. Such a respected man… And to think that we were all taken advantage of in such a way.”

“It’s only natural,” Javert said. “A man like you would have no reason to suspect another magistrate of such crimes. If I hadn’t known him in Toulon, Valjean might still be weaving his web of lies and deceit.”

“I could use a man like you,” the mayor said, eying him sharply, “but from what I heard, you have your eye on a different position.”

Javert inclined his head without answering the question. Perhaps he should not be surprised that rumor carried so far. Still, even if he himself had no interest in moving to Arras, perhaps he might find the solution to a different problem here…

“It seems to me you might be in need of a new turnkey as well.” Javert smiled slightly. “If you have a moment, monsieur, I think I might have a suggestion…”

It was late when Valjean first saw the child, the shadows already long. It was still so cold that there were no puddles of mud inconveniencing a traveler; instead, a thin, brittle layer of ice covered every puddle, gleaming in the rays of the sinking sun.

Valjean had been sent to do the thankless task of digging a hole in the frozen ground of the cemetery. He hadn’t been told the reason for his labor, but it was easy enough to figure out: a pauper’s grave, dug by an indentured servant, during the cold months of the year. Some poor vagabond had died, or perhaps a prostitute. Someone neither the town nor the church wanted to spend money on for a proper burial.

The work had been hard, but he had worked silently and steadily, breaking the frozen earth with a pickax. It had taken hours, but he had not minded. The work was satisfying; he’d had felt a silent companionship with the desolation of the frozen graveyard and the poor soul who would be laid to rest there.

Now, returning to the town, he saw before him a traveler. At first it had only been a small spot in the distance. As Valjean came closer, it gradually increased in size until Valjean saw that it was a boy walking towards Montreuil before him, undeterred despite the cold. The child wasn’t singing; the air was too cold for that. Still, he held a stick in his hand and had a hurdy-gurdy slung across his back, and Valjean felt his heart clench with a sudden, familiar excitement and terror.

“Boy!” he called out, eagerly lengthening his stride. 

When the boy turned around, Valjean saw that he’d guessed right: it was a little Savoyard who was walking towards Montreuil. Old instinct made Valjean reach for his pocket, only to realize with sudden shame that these days, he had no coin to pay off his guilty conscience.

“What’s your name?” he asked instead, although it was late and Javert would no doubt be furious should Valjean arrive late.

“Antoine,” the boy said, watching him suspiciously.

Valjean knew what he had to look like in his worn clothes—at least the pickax had been locked back inside the shed at the corner of the churchyard when he’d been done with his work. He was carrying no weapon, but regardless, with his clothes dirty from digging in the frozen earth all day, it was no wonder the boy was suspicion. He had every right to be; no doubt his wandering life had taught him to quickly appraise the people he encountered. After all, in Valjean he had encountered a man who would rob a child like him—who had done so before.

“Do you know a boy called Petit-Gervais?” Valjean asked desperately. “A Savoyard like you—he was in Digne six years ago. He was perhaps ten at the time.”

“No,” the boy said defensively. “What did he do?”

“He did nothing.” Valjean turned away from Antoine to gaze at the darkening sky, covering his eyes for a moment as he remembered a different sun blazing with all the heat of a southern summer. “Nothing. I did him wrong.”

“What did you do then?”

Valjean laughed softly, desperately. “I stole from him. I stole his forty sous. Everyone in this town will be able to tell you that.”

So many years had passed, and he could still see that moment so clearly. The air had been hot, thick with the scent of baking soil and row after row of golden wheat swaying in the breeze. From above, the sun had glared at him as if it knew the darkness inside his heart that could only be penetrated by force.

And penetrated it had, cutting him open like a knife, illuminating with merciless brilliance the darkness within him, the monster he’d become.


You dirty thief!


Reeling, he found himself staring directly into a glaring light once more. No matter where he turned, white-hot sunlight flared, blinding him until his eyes teared. There was nowhere to turn, nowhere to hide from that hideous truth deep inside him.


Monster! Thief! Scum of the earth!


No matter how he squeezed his eyes shut, he couldn’t escape the light piercing his soul like a knife. 

In the end, it was the child’s voice that pulled him out of his memories. When Valjean open his eyes, the boy was no longer in front of him—he must have rightfully fled, as he should have, as soon as Valjean had admitted to the sort of man he was.

But he had not made it all the way to the town’s gate. The Savoyard had stopped not far away, where three unsmiling men stood—men in the familiar gray coats of the police.

And one of them had a familiar tall, thin stature—Delrue.

Valjean froze for a heartbeat as he watched helplessly, terror at what Delrue might do warring with the fear of what the child might say if he followed it. But then, what might Delrue decide to do if Valjean kept his distance? If the mood struck Delrue, he might just chase the boy away rather than let him enter the town to ply his trade.

Keeping a careful eye on Delrue, Valjean forced himself to approach. He knew Javert wouldn’t be pleased at all if he were to antagonize Delrue—not after what had already happened. Not after Delrue had blackmailed Javert, upending the hierarchy Javert was so devoted to, the status he took such pride in.

“Ah, and there he is.” There was a smile on Delrue’s face, his eyes shining with cruel joy. “Have you robbed another little Savoyard? This one doesn’t look like he has much to steal from. Still.”

“He didn’t, sir,” the boy said. “He was only talking to me.”

“But he told you that he’d robbed a child called Petit-Gervais?”

“He did, sir. That’s why I was trying to get away from him.”

“Are you sure he didn’t take anything? Did he threaten you? I could have him in a cell tonight, just like that. Or—it could be you, if I catch you lying to me. You don’t want that, do you?”

“Leave him alone,” Valjean said. The old, helpless fury rose up inside him once more. “He hasn’t done anything. I was only asking—”

“Mind your manners, Valjean,” Delrue said sharply, his eyes narrowing. “You might think you’ve got Javert wound around your finger, but do you really think he’ll protect you if it turns out you threatened another Savoyard? Or worse—one of his men?”

Valjean swallowed desperately, his pulse echoing in his ears as he forced his gaze to the ground. “I’m sorry, sir. I didn’t mean to be disrespectful. I scared the child, that’s all. I’m sorry for it.”

“Are you?” Delrue chuckled. “You have it far too good here if you’ve started to think you can do whatever you like. It’s a pity you still haven’t learned any manners. And that although the chief is so hard on you.”

Javert wouldn’t like that, Valjean thought, noting how the other agents chuckled—but his body was still tense with the fury that had risen up instinctively and couldn’t be forced back. It could only be contained until he could taste bile in his mouth, standing before Delrue as he had stood before so many other guards: filled with nothing but hate and that sickening awareness of his own impotence.

His hands were trembling. He tightened them into fists, then realized what he’d done and forced himself to relax them, breathing shallowly past the anger and despair.

He wasn’t that man anymore. What good had hatred ever done? It had led him down the terrible path that had caused him to end up here, with a child afraid to remain in his presence.

“Maybe he’s not hard enough.” Delrue’s sickening little laugh left no doubt at all what the words really referred to. “But I doubt that. I very much doubt that.”

His face burning with shame and rage, Valjean forced himself to keep his eyes down.

“Can I go now, sir?” the child inquired. “It’s starting to get dark.”

Delrue scoffed and waved the Savoyard off with a dismissive gesture. Then he took a step towards Valjean, who swallowed back his anger until he felt sick with it, hating himself and hating this town and hating Javert, hating the choices he’d made that had led to him ending up here, unable to help a child in need—and hating how even now, when he could see the darkness inside him with such blinding clarity, he couldn’t stop the hate and the rage from spilling over until he was trembling.

“Anything you want to say to me, Valjean?” Delrue inquired after a moment.

Valjean squeezed his eyes shut, his throat aching with words of rage that couldn’t be allowed to break free.

“No, sir.”

“Then run along. You’ve wasted too much of my time already.”

***

Valjean should have been grateful. He’d escaped Delrue with no harm done but yet another injury to his pride—and a man like him couldn’t afford pride anyway. That was the way it was: Delrue could insult him however he pleased and Valjean would stand there and take it, the way he’d stood and taken the whip and the blows of the guards in the hulks.

But even after these long years, it hurt.

He brushed away Fantine’s concern when he reached the barracks with a brusqueness for which he hated himself as well—but perhaps it was for the best. What good had he ever done for her? Her life would have been so much easier if she’d kept retreating from him with the same fear as the Savoyard boy.

It was in this mood that he climbed the stairs to Javert’s apartment, despair and hate pulling at him with every rapid beat of his heart. He could still see the suspicion on the face of the boy—and why shouldn’t he be suspicious of Valjean? Six years had passed since he’d collapsed on that dusty road north of Digne beneath the weight of his sins, and no matter what he’d tried to achieve in those years, no matter how many Savoyards he questioned, he’d never been able to find Petit-Gervais again.

Inside, Javert was already seated by the stove, his limbs loose and relaxed as he idly read a paper, looking pleased with himself.

On any other day, the sight would have caused relief to rise up in Valjean—perhaps even pleasure to find Javert in a good mood, or at least an appreciation of the elegance of his limbs and the warm hunger of his eyes as he turned to look at Valjean.

Today, all Valjean felt was a sickened despair, the dark maelstrom of his hatred rising once more, this time aimed straight at his own heart. After what he’d been through, after those long years of torment in the hulks, how could he now fall asleep with his head on Javert’s chest when he’d seen that very same man order the shooting of a convict as if his life was worth no more than that of a rabid dog?

Javert’s head tilted back against the headrest, a small, pleased smile on his face when he turned his head to look at Valjean. A moment later, his smile turned into a frown, and although Valjean’s heartbeat sped up with instinctive terror, all he could feel was a savage vindication.

“What’s wrong with you?” Javert said, slowly straightening in his chair. He placed his wine back down with obvious displeasure.

The sight of that pleased Valjean as well.

“Nothing’s wrong with me,” he said viciously, belatedly adding, “sir. Although I’m sure your man Delrue will have a different answer for you.”

He laughed in bitter despair. Perhaps he’d been wrong to play the docile servant for Delrue. Perhaps he should have given in to his rage and let Delrue deal with it. At least then he’d have gotten what he deserved.

And maybe what he really deserved was a reminder that Javert was still the man he’d known back in the hulks. That Javert might enjoy playing at keeping him as a pet for a while, but that even the rare moments of peace and contentedness were bought at the price of Valjean’s willing surrender to the man who’d been the cause of so much misery and suffering back in the hulks—so much death.

Once, he’d refused to bend his neck, staring at Javert in open defiance even though he’d known that Javert could have had him shot just as easily as the poor wretch they’d had standing up against the wall. What had changed to make him surrender so easily now?

Valjean wasn’t the man he’d been. He didn’t want to be the man he’d been. He’d turned his back on hate and rage. Moreover, there were others—there was Fantine and her daughter. He hadn’t willingly surrendered to Javert out of cowardice, but to save them.

At least, that was what it had been at first. Was the same still true?

With shame Valjean thought of how he’d opened his mouth for the bit in Javert’s hand, how he willingly opened his mouth for other things, how he’d let Javert again and again push him to a place where he’d arch his back and beg for it, if that was what it took.

It might have been for Fantine once—but by now, surely they knew each other well enough to do away with that pretense. Javert didn’t care about Fantine. He cared about Valjean—about breaking him, about forcing his surrender in all things.

And Valjean let him.

Javert crooked a finger, still seated by the fire, as secure in his power now as he’d been in Toulon when he’d had Valjean strung up for his pleasure and circled around him.

Valjean stared at him. Then, as if pulled by an invisible force, he found himself moving closer.

When he came to a stop in front of Javert, Javert was still seated. Valjean was towering over him. The smile had been wiped from Javert’s face—he looked displeased, his mouth firm, his nostrils flared, a vertical line between his brows, which had tightly drawn together.

Valjean could still hear his pulse echoing in his ears as his heart beat rapidly. The sound wasn’t so unlike to that of the waves lapping at the hulks at night.

Back then, Javert had thought he was in power as well—and he had been. Valjean had been in chains; Javert had carried a cudgel. Javert could have had him whipped on a whim or shot on a made-up excuse.

Now, standing above him, Valjean became aware of how much stronger than Javert he truly was. Javert was smaller, his shoulders narrower, and for all that he could certainly hold his own in a fight with a thief or a drunken soldier, he was no equal to Valjean’s strength.

Right now, it was Valjean who was in power. Right now, it would be easy—so easy—to reach out and do what he’d dreamed of during those endless moments when he’d stared Javert in the eye while Javert gave the order to shoot as if their lives were truly of no worth at all—as if to Javert they were just vermin to be squashed.

Valjean could feel himself trembling. His chest ached. He clenched his hands, but even so he could still feel the weight of the coin on his palm. It was still burning him, even now, even now...

With a helpless gasp, he fell to his knees. He bent his head, still struggling to breathe, his fingers digging into the fabric of Javert’s trousers.

Dirty thief, the child cried in his memories, and he bit back the desperate sob that wanted to break free.

Perhaps he had every right to hate Javert—but Javert was the only one who knew, the only one who understood, the only one willing to deliver that punishment Valjean knew he couldn’t escape from, no matter how far he ran.

Javert reached out to trail his fingers through Valjean’s hair, considering the man on his knees before him. A moment later, he tightened his fingers and roughly pulled his head up.

“What’s that all about?” he said. “What did you do?”

There was something in Valjean’s eyes he recognized—or perhaps it was merely the way Valjean’s body shook, his powerful muscles tense, like a beast driven into a corner, mindless with rage and just waiting for a chance to strike out. Javert had seen that state before—that unbridled anger was after all one of the most common reasons a man would end up in the hulks.

And yet, despite whatever event had set him off, Valjean was on his knees. He wasn’t the same man he’d been in the hulks—it had taken blows back then to force him to his knees, the constant threat of violence to keep him in line.

Now, Valjean knelt willingly. That was something, even though it it appeared that it would take a while longer yet to cure him of his temper.

“There was a boy—a little Savoyard. I questioned him. When I told him what I’d done, he ran away. I don’t blame him for that.” Valjean laughed bitterly. “But he ran into your man Delrue next.”

Javert exhaled, unamused. He could see where this was going. He’d only just found a way to deal with Delrue, too. He was in no mood at all to let Valjean interfere with his plans.

“So you started a quarrel with Delrue? Is that it?”

Valjean swallowed, then shook his head, Javert’s grip on his hair still forcing him to meet Javert’s eyes.

“No, sir. But he threatened to deny the child entry to the town.”

“And?”

“I apologized. He let the child go.”

“Is that all?” Javert inquired after a moment when nothing else was forthcoming. He gave Valjean’s head an impatient little shake before he released him, leaning back in his chair in displeasure.

“That’s all, sir,” Valjean said hoarsely, still staring up at him with those dark, unreadable eyes that had irked Javert so in the hulks.

He’d thought he’d beaten the obstinacy out of Valjean—but it seemed that wasn’t entirely true.

“What’s all this about then? What do you want? My promise that I’ll keep you safe from Delrue?” The mere thought made Javert laugh.

Valjean straightened, sudden fury blazing in his eyes as he leaned forward, his fingers digging into Javert’s legs as the words erupted out of him. “That you’ll keep the child safe if Delrue fabricates some sort of charge to get rid of him. What do you think?”

“You’re in a mood today.” He was—Javert could see Valjean’s heaving chest, his blazing eyes, the expressive lines around his mouth now deep and firm with an anger that was rare these days. “What if I don’t feel like dealing with it?”

He’d thrown the words out unthinkingly, but it seemed that he had inadvertently hit a sore point, because Valjean’s eyes widened and he reared back in shock as if Javert had slapped him.

It was a curious reaction. Had Valjean come here expecting Javert to immediately take Delrue’s side? Surely Valjean knew that Javert was as displeased with Delrue as he was with Valjean.

But perhaps it wasn’t Delrue this was about. Wasn’t that how it had gone before? After all it had been the mention of the little Savoyard that had ended with Valjean bent over his bed, his backside red from the riding crop. Maybe this mood of Valjean’s hadn’t been brought about by Delrue’s meddlesome nature but rather by the child he’d encountered...

“I could send you back to the barracks tonight,” Javert said slowly.

“You wouldn’t,” Valjean said, although he couldn’t quite hide the insecurity in his voice. “You like fucking me too much.”

Javert shrugged and leaned back in his chair again, taking up the wineglass. “I do. But maybe I don’t feel like dealing with your moods today. That’s what you want, isn’t it?”

“No,” Valjean said immediately, his mouth tight and sullen.

Javert could see him struggle with himself. For a long moment, Valjean remained on his knees, silent, brows knitted together, his eyes as dark as they’d been that day in the hulks when Javert had first questioned him. A minute passed, then two. Javert sipped his wine.

Finally, Valjean bent his head, his face crumpling. “Yes. Damn you. Yes, that’s what I want.”

“Mind your manners,” Javert said sharply. “This behavior isn’t going to get you what you want.”

“What do you want from me?” Valjean snapped, his eyes still furious and his mouth twisted. “Isn’t this what you told me you want? For me to come and confess to you? And now that’s not enough?”

“That’s not what I wanted you to do.” Javert reached out to grasp Valjean’s chin, just because he could. The look Valjean gave him was still sullen—but perhaps that too was to be expected. With Valjean it was always one step forward, two steps back, as if he was frightened of whatever progress in his manners Javert’s discipline had made.

“I told you that I expect you to come confess your sins honestly and accept the consequences when you break the rules. But you didn’t break any rules, did you? I never told you to not talk to Savoyard boys.” Javert shrugged. “In truth, I don’t care if you want to ask every passing child about Petit Gervais. Which leaves Delrue. Did you insult him? Did you attack him?”

“No, sir. I showed him the proper respect. The way you like me to.” Valjean laughed bitterly.

Javert kept hold of his chin as he watched him thoughtfully. “Then I don’t see what you’ve done wrong,” he said at last and released Valjean, who reared back as if stung and watched him from wide, shocked eyes.

It was not at all the look of a man who’d just escaped punishment.

Here was the thing that had puzzled Javert for so long, revealed right there on Valjean’s face. Valjean might enjoy feeling like a martyr, pretending that Javert’s treatment was harsh and unjust—but he’d come here today wanting to be punished. He’d been expecting Javert to give him what he needed.

“I want...” Valjean began, the words so rough Javert could barely make them out. Then he stopped and swallowed, his hands clenching helplessly where they rested on his knees. “Can’t you see—can’t you...”

He shuddered all over, his eyes squeezed tightly shut. Javert watched with great interest as a vein throbbed at his temple, his eyelashes glistening.

“You want to make me beg for it. That’s it, isn’t it?” Valjean said at last, his eyes dark and furious as he finally looked up at Javert again.

Javert smiled. Then he shook his head. “I want you to have better manners. But I suppose this is already a step forward for you. At least you know where you belong.”

It was pleasing to contemplate that Valjean’s first instinct had been to rush towards him and fall to his knees—never mind that his mouth was still as coarse as a convict’s. But then, Javert had always known that it would take time...

Javert stood. Valjean’s head tilted back as he watched him, wary now, although his eyes still blazed with fury and shame.

“Stand,” Javert said harshly. “Strip.”

It was what they both knew Valjean wanted, but even so Valjean made him wait for a moment before he moved to obey. Javert’s lips twitched. If Valjean was trying to provoke him, it was working; his patience was starting to fray.

Nevertheless, the thing that Valjean didn’t understand, had never understood, was that they were not so different except for one thing—control. Javert knew how to exert an iron control over himself, while Valjean would lash out in instinctive rage instead.

Once Valjean stood before him, his powerful body bared to Javert’s gaze, the old appreciation mixed with his annoyance at Valjean’s obstinacy. Even now, after weeks of Valjean’s submission, there was a thrill to seeing all of Valjean’s strength constrained. Javert needed no chains on him—he enforced Valjean’s submission merely by stepping before him, by looking him in the eye, by voicing a command. And despite Valjean’s physical strength, he obeyed every time.

Javert pointed at the corner of the room. “Kneel,” he said. “Face the wall.”

Valjean’s eyes blazed again, but he followed readily enough. It was true: Valjean wanted to be punished. And for what was probably the least of his crimes, at that.

Fortunately for Valjean, he’d annoyed Javert enough by the manner with which he’d disturbed his evening that Javert was only too happy to hand out the discipline Valjean needed. Still—he refused to let Valjean force his hand. Valjean would take what Javert gave him—even if that wasn’t what he’d hoped for in coming here.

“Good. Now wait,” he said once Valjean was kneeling on the floor, eyes on the wall instead of Javert, although he could see Valjean’s shoulder’s tense at the words. “Don’t you dare move a single muscle, or I’ll send you straight back to the barracks.”

Javert left his apartment without another word to head down and into the stables, where he spent some time hesitating over different lengths of leather in the tack room. At last, when he was certain that at least a quarter of an hour had passed, he returned to his apartment with a selection of leather straps, his stomach tight and hungry at the thought that all this time, Valjean had been waiting for him, naked and on his knees.

When he entered his rooms, he found that Valjean had indeed remained kneeling in his corner, his head lower than it had been when Javert had left, although the sound of his return immediately caused Valjean to hunch his shoulders.

Javert smiled. Instead of speaking, he placed the leather straps on his desk, then headed back to where he kept the dried peppers from Cayenne in a drawer. A few minutes later, he’d produced enough of the paste of oil and peppers to suffice for what he’d planned.

The sound of mortar and pestle was familiar to Valjean by now, and when Javert approached Valjean, he could see that he had tensed again. No doubt this wasn’t the punishment he’d had in mind when he’d rushed in here—but he’d learn to take what Javert had to give.

“Cross your hands behind your back.”

After a moment’s hesitation, Valjean obeyed. Javert proceeded to use one of the leather straps to bind his wrists, then used a sturdier length to wrap around his chest, buckling it tightly so that it kept Valjean’s arms against his body.

“Go and kneel in front of my chair.”

When Valjean followed, Javert finally caught a glimpse of his face. The wait had calmed him, as he’d thought it would. While there were still flashes of fury in his eyes, his brows had drawn together now and his mouth had softened, the lines around his mouth those of worry rather than rage.

Valjean knew what was to come, and didn’t like it.

Still, he knew better than to rebel against Javert, which was something at least.

Once Valjean was kneeling before Javert’s armchair by the stove, Javert circled him with another length of leather in his hand, giving him a considering look. In truth, he hadn’t planned this—there was little need to tie Valjean down, after all. Despite Valjean’s moods, he was tame enough, at least in Javert’s hands. But there was something about the sight of his muscles bulging beneath skin gleaming with sweat that reminded Javert of the powerful body of a draft horse—and just like a draft horse, Javert hungered to see all of that strength harnessed to his will.

He ran his hand down Valjean’s back, then pushed. Valjean bent forward. Javert nudged Valjean’s knees further apart until he could see the vulnerable testicles dangling freely, then stood in consideration for a moment.

Finally, Javert tightened a second length of leather around Valjean’s chest, choosing to allow his legs free. Valjean’s arms were tightly pressed against his body now, the leather digging into the muscles of his biceps and again at his elbows, his wrists still tied behind his back. Even for a man with Valjean’s formidable strength, there was no escape.

Again Javert stood back, considering. Then he smiled. An idea had suddenly come to him.

Once more he abandoned Valjean, this time for the shelves that held his sparse personal possessions. There was nothing that looked suitable at a first glance, and he frowned as his fingers trailed past books, pewter tankards and the old ink stand he’d put aside for the bronze horse he’d claimed from Valjean’s former office.

Next, he bent to examine the bottom of the cupboard that held plates and glasses and his own small supply of wine. Here, he was more successful: there was a small ball of twine that would be more useful for what he had in mind than the leather. When he took hold of it, he pushed aside a few trinkets that had been stored at the back because Javert had not seen a present use for them, but had lived for too long with too little to get rid of something that might one day be needed.

This frugality now at last paid off. Among the things he pulled forward was a smooth bottle, not much larger than his hand, with a round body and a long, wide neck. It had been a gift, once—he could not quite remember the person who’d given it to him, although it had come in the aftermath of Valjean’s arrest. A small bottle of brandy, sent, perhaps, by the prosecutor, or perhaps the mayor of Arras. Now empty, it had waited in his cupboard for an occasion to be used.

Javert drew his fingers thoughtfully along the smooth exterior, then smiled. It would suit his purpose well enough.

Valjean was still in position when Javert returned to his side with the bottle as well as his supply of lamp oil. Without bothering to give Valjean a word of warning, he upended it over his buttocks. Javert was not a wasteful man, but today he allowed a good amount of oil to splash down onto Valjean’s buttocks, watching as it slowly ran down his crease. Valjean shuddered, but remained quiet, and Javert set his tools aside before he reached out to run his fingers down Valjean’s crease until they were slick with the oil.

Valjean’s hole offered no resistance when he pressed in. Valjean took two fingers easily; despite his groan when Javert twisted his fingers, the tight muscle, now gleaming with oil, opening almost hungrily for a third. Javert fucked him like that for a minute, leisurely thrusting in and out until Valjean’s hole was well-coated with the oil, admiring the way the firm, round muscles of his buttocks quivered every time he pushed in.

Oil had run all the way down to Valjean’s balls. Javert grasped them lightly, smoothing oil over them as well as he stroked them with his thumb while Valjean shivered again.

Then Javert took hold of the bottle. With his fingers on the neck, he pressed the bottom of the small bottle against Valjean’s hole. Despite Valjean’s instinctive gasp, it didn’t take a lot of force until he was able to watch the slick opening give helplessly way to the penetration.

Distractedly, Javert smoothed one hand over Valjean’s hip, holding him in place as he trembled while Javert continued to slowly, relentlessly press the bottle against his hole, watching as the gleaming muscle swallowed the round glass a finger’s breadth at a time.

The sight was hypnotizing. Javert ran the pad of his thumb lightly around the spread hole, reddened now and convulsing around the glass—but when Javert pushed, it swallowed more of the bottle without protest, even as a thin layer of sweat sprang up on Valjean’s skin and he groaned.

Pleased, Javert stroked down Valjean’s thigh, then ran his fingers along Valjean’s cock in reward. Valjean was already hard, his cock twitching at his touch as his balls tightened. Javert pushed again demandingly, the bottle sliding deeper into Valjean’s hole as Valjean tried to arch his back.

He’d nearly taken all of it, although Valjean didn’t even know what was penetrating him. Something in Javert’s stomach went tight at the realization that with Valjean bound like this, he could make him take anything he wanted—anything at all. And in truth, even if he hadn’t bound him, Valjean would have bent over for it if that was what Javert demanded.

Instead of reassuring Valjean that it was almost done, Javert curved a hand around his buttocks again, fingers digging into the round, hard muscle in appreciation as he pushed and watched the bottle slide in another fraction. It was almost better than fucking Valjean—this way, Javert wasn’t tempted by his own pleasure to cut the experience short. As pleasant as it was to fuck Valjean, there was something just as satisfying in seeing that proud, strong body forced to surrender and driven to his limits.

And today, Javert was in a mood for the latter, especially given Valjean’s sullen mood earlier.

Minutes passed during which Javert gently twisted the bottle, working it deeper and deeper into Valjean’s hole. Valjean was still hard, but Javert ignored his cock, entranced by the way Valjean’s hole clenched and relaxed, so slick with oil that even when Valjean’s body tried to resist the penetration, it had no choice but to allow the bottle to slide deeper, spread open for Javert’s amusement.

Valjean was panting now, his back arching as his muscles bunched against the straps of black leather that held him tightly bound. The sight was intoxicating.

Javert moistened his lips, ignoring the sharp, hard ache of his own arousal as he took hold of the bottle again. With one final push, he shoved it all the way inside. Valjean cried out even as his swollen hole clenched in relief around the bottle’s neck, the heavy body of glass filling him so completely that even now, Valjean’s cock was curving hard against his stomach.

Javert had chosen well. The neck of the bottle was wide enough that while it no longer spread him fully open, Valjean’s hole still twitched around the glass, stretched more than was comfortable.

Javert ran his finger around Valjean’s hole. The muscle was sore and swollen. Then he dipped his finger into the bottle neck instead, the glass smooth and cool, although it was slowly warming.

“You’re quite a sight.” Javert grasped hold of the bottle’s neck and twisted it playfully, and as if on command Valjean groaned, his balls shifting as his cock jerked again. Experimentally, Javert gave Valjean’s buttocks a slap. The firm, round muscles quivered, and Valjean’s hole tried to clench in vain around the bottle’s rigid rim.

Javert smiled. “That’ll do.”

Valjean’s balls had drawn up tightly in response to the penetration. Javert wasn’t gentle when he handled them, and Valjean groaned again and squirmed, his cock remaining hard even when Javert tugged on his balls. Javert wound the twine around their base, tying it tightly as Valjean shuddered. Then he tied the other end to Valjean’s bound wrists, making certain that there was tension in the twine so that whenever Valjean tried to shift and alleviate the ache, the pain of pulling on his swollen balls would force him to hold still.

When Javert was done, he stood and took a step back, surveying his handiwork.

Valjean was quite a sight. Javert’s own cock throbbed hungrily at seeing him bound and exposed.

Valjean’s firm, round buttocks were spread wide enough that Javert could see the bottle neck sticking out of his hole, surrounded by the gleaming, swollen muscle. Valjean was bent forward; with his arms tied behind his back he couldn’t support his weight with his hands, and so every muscle in his body was tense, bulging against the black leather that wound around his torso, skin gleaming wet in the light.

“This will give you something to think about.” Javert trailed his hand over Valjean’s broad, tense shoulders before he moved to retrieve the small bowl with the paste of peppers he’d prepared earlier. He dipped a finger into it, then held it out as he knelt in front of Valjean.

Valjean’s hair was damp with sweat, his eyes closed and his lips parted. It took him a moment to focus on Javert when he opened his eyes, but once he did, his eyes widened and he shook his head, silently pleading.

It was a rather different look from the man who’d come into his apartment earlier with such fury in his eyes. Javert’s smile widened as he waited silently.

It took a long moment before Valjean finally surrendered. There were deep lines around his mouth even before he leaned forward and wrapped his lips around Javert’s finger. Javert could feel the touch of his tongue, soft and hot, as Valjean licked the paste from his skin. Then Valjean drew back, and a few moments later Javert could see his face crumpling, his eyes squeezed shut once more as tears began to well up.

Javert nodded, then placed the small bowl with the rest of the oily red mixture down in front of Valjean. “I expect this to be empty when I’m done with you. Do you understand me?”

Even through his tears and breathless gasps, Valjean managed to bend his head, which Javert took as acknowledgment.

Pleased, Javert returned to his chair, his cock aching as it chafed against his trousers when he sat down—but Javert was good at denying an easy satisfaction where patience would yield much more satisfying rewards. Valjean would learn that lesson yet.

He took hold of the book that had been waiting on the small table next to his chair, then leaned back and raised his feet to rest them on Valjean’s back.

Valjean shuddered again. From his vantage point, Javert had a perfect view of the way Valjean’s round buttocks tensed, the sore hole clenching against the wide bottle neck when the rope that tied his hands to his balls chafed along his crease, jarring the bottle. Valjean made a soft, hoarse sound, his voice thick with tears.

There was a deep thrill in seeing a powerful stallion so constrained, forced to surrender to Javert’s mastery despite the strength of his trembling muscles.

Javert made himself more comfortable, then began to read. It took about ten minutes until he first noticed a change in Valjean. The pain of the hot peppers seemed to have worn off enough that Valjean had realized once more that his punishment was not yet over.

Valjean shifted uncomfortably, the rope digging into the crease between his buttocks once more, chafing against his slick, swollen hole and tugging on his balls until Valjean froze, panting in misery. His balls were swollen, and if his cock had softened from the pain of the peppers he’d licked from Javert’s finger, it had been hardening again in the meantime. Javert could see it curving up against his stomach, as red and wet as if he were indeed a stallion Javert had purchased to stand at stud.

Another minute or two passed before Javert’s patience was finally rewarded. With an exhalation of misery, Valjean’s proud neck bent at last, his chest lowering so that he could reach the bowl while his thighs spread for balance. The twine dug hard into his crease—and then Valjean’s back arched, his cock jerking. As Javert watched, a long string of wetness oozed from the tip of his cock as he panted desperately, the motion shifting the bottle inside him into just the right position to reward him with deep pleasure for his submission.

Javert smiled to himself, the book dropping forgotten into his lap as he watched the proceedings. It was always rewarding to see Valjean struggle with his own pride and obstinacy—especially since in the end, he always broke.

The strain made Valjean’s thighs tremble. When he finally succeeded in lowering his head all the way down to the ground, his hole twitched around the glass bottle while more wetness dripped from his cock. Despite his misery, Javert could hear a moan escaping Valjean, his hips instinctively coming forward as his wet cock thrust into empty air—and then the tug on his balls turned his moan into a pained gasp.

They were swollen a painful red now. Javert had tied the twine tightly enough that he doubted Valjean would be able to find release, even if he had anything to rut against—although the thought of letting him try was tempting.

Still, it was even more pleasing to watch as Valjean held himself still, the bottle relentlessly exerting its pressure inside him, his cock dripping with pleasure despite his aching balls—and then Valjean’s tongue came out as he forced himself to lick the paste of hot peppers out of the bowl, groaning when he straightened afterward.

A few moments later, his groans turned into helpless panting, the large, powerful body trembling all over. It was a pity Javert couldn’t see his face. He didn’t doubt that it would be wet with tears, Valjean’s tempting mouth swollen from the sting of the peppers.

Still, the view he had was worth it. Valjean’s backside truly was as impressive as the hindquarters of a Belgian stallion—and to have all that power forced into submission, Valjean’s hole puffy and sore where it spread wide around the glass bottle, made that sight even more impressive.

Javert took up his book once more, forcing his attention away from that pleasant contemplation. Once or twice, he was forced to adjust himself in his trousers—but he knew that his discomfort paled next to the misery of Valjean, who held as still as he could, Javert’s feet still resting on his back.

Javert kept an eye on the clock in the corner of the room. Every now and then, Valjean’s hips would shift beneath him, buttocks shivering and clenching around the thick intruder inside him, although he would always fall still in submission to the penetration again, his swollen hole unable to expel the object no matter how much it fought against the bottle.

A few times, when Javert reached out for his glass of wine, he quietly stroked Valjean’s hips in praise, and Valjean shoulders relaxed in response for a moment, his head dropping and his hole relaxing, another long string of clear fluid dripping from his cock.

It took half an hour until Valjean had finished the task Javert had given him. By that time, his crease was red from the friction of the twine, his cock leaking incessantly whenever he’d managed to force himself back down to lick up more of the burning paste while his hole spasmed around the shifting bottle inside him. His balls were a tempting purple, taut and swollen, his cock as red and wet as that of an animal in rut.

There was no obstinacy left in him at all—he was all shivering misery, aching for release yet unable to find it and, no doubt, more aware than ever that the surrender he owed Javert was absolute. Most importantly, all fight had left him—his mouth would be soft and respectful, the terrible mood he’d been in earlier driven from him, now that he’d felt the consequences of his disrespect once more.

Javert straightened and lifted his boots from Valjean’s back. Valjean’s legs were still trembling from the strain. His hole quivered when Javert touched it, the sore muscle hot and swollen when he ran his thumb around the stretched rim in appreciation. When he dipped his finger into the neck of the bottle, he found the glass as warm as Valjean’s body.

Experimentally, he took hold of the neck to give the bottle a little twist. Valjean gasped, his hole clinging to the bottle. Javert worked it until he could pull it out a little, then pushed it back inside, and Valjean’s hips bucked against him until he stilled with a cry of misery as the rope pulled on his bruised balls, his cock leaking more fluid despite the agony his balls had to cause him.

“It’s hard to believe you didn’t let anyone fuck you in the hulks when you like this so much,” Javert said, affectionately rubbing a sweat-slick thigh. “Is my cock really that much better?”

He poured more of the lamp oil onto Valjean’s crease, then used the added lubrication to work the bottle in and out until he could fuck Valjean with it easily. The sounds that escaped Valjean had his own cock achingly hard—but the sight of Valjean’s hole stretched so open, so sore and slick and forced to take whatever he gave it, was too tempting to end the game so soon.

As Valjean groaned and arched his back, Javert slowly worked the bottle out of him, his hole gaping open and vulnerable for a moment after the slick bottle popped free.

Then Javert pressed the bottle back against the red muscle. Even though Valjean cried out, his hole stretched hungrily open for it, allowing him to slide the bottle deep inside once more until Valjean’s swollen hole clenched around the bottleneck in relief.

“Maybe I should leave this inside you,” Javert murmured contemplatively. “You’d have such pleasing manners if I sent you to work like this. I’d like that—and I think so would you. Isn’t that right, Valjean?”

He stroked Valjean’s damp skin as he jarred the bottle again, and Valjean’s hips tried to thrust forward as a broken cry escaped him, more fluid oozing from the tip of his cock.

“Please,” Valjean gasped brokenly. “Please, sir, anything…”

“Anything?” Javert smiled. “That’s quite a promise.”

Again he took hold of the bottle. He tested the weight of Valjean’s balls with his hand, prodding the globes inside the swollen sack with his thumb despite the way Valjean shuddered and jerked in agony. There was a puddle between Valjean’s spread knees; despite the way the tightly wound twine kept Valjean from release, fluid had steadily leaked from his cock. For a moment, Javert contemplated whether he could make Valjean come despite his bruised balls, and what sounds Valjean would make if he did—but then he relented. The game had already gone on for long enough, and as much as he enjoyed the sight of Valjean’s surrender, his own appetite had grown sharper.

“Hold still. I already have a gelding in my stable; I don’t need another,” he said as he begun to cut through the twine with a small knife.

The muscles of Valjean’s thighs tensed, but he held himself perfectly still as the knife sawed through strand after strand. Then the twine fell away, blood rushed back into Valjean’s abused testicles, and Valjean groaned brokenly, sweat breaking out all over his body as he trembled in agony.

Unmoved, Javert closed his hands around his heavy testes, and Valjean’s groan turned into a sob.

“I’m not done with you. Let’s see if we can empty these first. They seem to need it.”

This time, Valjean pushed willingly back against him when Javert took hold of the bottle once more—but as satisfying as it was to watch Valjean fuck himself on the implement, his swollen balls now dangling heavy and vulnerable between his thighs, Javert was feeling too hungry himself now to keep it up.

Javert rubbed his thumb against the swollen rim as he eased the bottle from Valjean’s hole again. When it popped free, the muscle gaped open once more, giving him a glimpse of the vulnerable red of Valjean’s insides. He slid his fingers into it before Valjean’s hole could tighten up again, spreading him open easily.

He could fuck him now, and Valjean would be sweet and needy, his hole yielding and soft and slick with oil. It would be good—and Javert needed it too after denying himself all evening.

He slid a third finger into Valjean, and Valjean groaned gratefully, his hole clinging to his fingers. Javert rubbed his thumb against the puffy rim again, then, curiously, tried to add a fourth finger—and Valjean’s hole yielded to that as well, the muscle spreading hot and taut around him as his fingers sank into Valjean’s body, stretching him as Valjean trembled.

“Look at you,” Javert said, his voice low and rough as he fucked Valjean with small, shallow thrusts. “You’d take anything I give you—wouldn’t you?”

Experimentally, he pressed his thumb against his other fingers the next time he pressed in—and Valjean took that too, his hole yielding easily until Javert was in to the second joint. Curiously, he pressed harder. Valjean’s hole tried to convulse around him, but even so he sank in a little deeper.

Javert moistened his lips, unable to look away from the sight. Could Valjean take it? The hardest part was yet to come. The widest part of his hand, even with his thumb folded beneath his other fingers, was much wider than his cock—wider than the unyielding bottle.

Even so, Valjean’s insides seemed to beckon him, clinging to him seductively, hot and soft like silk.

Licking his lips again, he took hold of the lamp oil and poured it over his hand. Then he pulled out a little, pressed back in, watched as Valjean’s hole swallowed another fraction of him, the oil making it easy to press in until he was almost up to his knuckles.

Valjean was silent except for the sound of his heavy breathing. His body was shaking, his thighs spread wide apart. His balls were still a painful purple, swollen like heavy, bruised plums—and his cock was still hard, leaking fluid onto the floor despite the way his hole spasmed around Javert’s hand.

“How much can you take?” he asked Valjean. “Whatever I give you? Isn’t that what you said—that you’ve borne worse than anything I can do to you?”

Valjean panted, his muscles tensing. Droplets of sweat were running down his back.

“Anything,” he said at last, his voice hoarse. “Anything you want—I can take it.”

Valjean couldn’t move. His wrists were still tied behind his back, his arms tightly pressed to his sides, secured in place by leather straps so that even his great strength wasn’t enough to free himself.

Still, his legs were free, and if he had truly wanted to, Valjean knew that he could have escaped the pressure of Javert’s hand by shuffling forward.

Instead, he bent his head, panting for breath. The throbbing of his sore balls joined the ache of his swollen cock as his body stretched impossibly wide, Javert spreading him open until it felt as if he had nothing more to give, as if his body was going to tear—

Dimly, he felt the touch of Javert’s free hand smoothing down his thigh.

“Relax,” Javert said, his voice so hoarse that Valjean barely recognized it. “Let me in.”

Valjean groaned as Javert pulled back and then pressed forward, again and again, a slow, relentless progress that went deeper every time.

He’d never felt anything like it before. It seemed impossible to be stretched open so wide—but Javert demanded and Valjean’s body yielded, as if Valjean’s body was more Javert’s than Valjean’s at this moment, until at last, with a final moment of unbearable pressure, the widest part had pushed through. Dimly, Valjean heard himself cry out as his body sucked Javert’s hand inside in abject relief, his abused hole clinging to the narrower circumference of Javert’s wrist. All of Javert was inside him now, filling him better than the bottle had. Despite the agony of the stretch, the impossible pressure was so intensely pleasurable that tears kept running down his face.

Javert was still stroking his thigh. Valjean found himself absurdly grateful for the touch even as he trembled all over, the slightest shift of Javert’s hand inside him making him moan. The pressure was nearly unbearable—and then, slowly but surely, Javert began to press in even deeper. His hand was filling him and stretching him in a way no one ever had, touching where no one had ever been until it was impossible to deny that Javert owned him, that he was utterly in Javert’s power. All he could do was yield to Javert’s every demand—and still Javert pressed in deeper until broken sobs spilled out of Valjean’s mouth, his body clenching around Javert’s firm, warm hand that opened him up and caressed him from within, stroking all the intimate, secret places inside him that had not been made for touch.

 He could feel the smallest motion Javert made deep inside himself, Javert confidently touching where he had no defenses. Javert’s hand kept moving back and forth as Valjean groaned and shuddered, past words now—and then Javert pulled back.

Javert’s fingers clenched to form a fist. The sensation was indescribable. It was larger than anything he’d ever felt inside him. This time when Javert pressed inward, the sensation of Javert’s knuckles scraping past him made him cry out, his heart stuttering in his chest as he dimly felt a spurt of wetness against his stomach. Again Javert pushed into him, again and again, relentlessly laying claim to him. Every time, the intense pressure against where he was most sensitive made his aching cock twitch and spurt wetness against his stomach—but it was nothing like a release, just unending, unbearable pleasure, drawn out until he was past thought.

It was as if he had ceased to exist. He was nothing but a bundle of raw nerves, shuddering and jerking every time Javert’s hand pushed deep inside him until he could feel him in his stomach, in his chest, Javert’s hand reaching right for his heart and squeezing around it—and then at last everything turned white for a moment as his bruised balls contracted and a final climax rushed through him, so intense that he might have collapsed if Javert hadn’t slung his free arm around his hips.

“Easy,” Javert said when Valjean’s senses began to return.

Javert’s hand was still inside him, slowly beginning its journey out of him. Valjean could feel the moment the widest part of Javert’s palm brushed against his rim from the inside. Then, carefully, Javert began to pull free. Once more Valjean felt himself stretched open with a relentlessness he couldn’t resist, no matter how much his body tried to clench around Javert’s wrist.

“Relax,” Javert said again. “We both know you can take it.” Javert’s voice sounded nothing like himself, still rough with a sharp hunger that hadn’t been sated even by the absolute surrender of Valjean’s body to all his desires.

Valjean panted as Javert stroked his hip, Javert’s wrist twisting a little—and this time the sound that escaped Valjean when his knuckles pressed right there was little more than a pitiful whimper, the sound a wounded animal might make, as his softening cock gave a pained twitch at the stimulation.

Even so, the pressure didn’t ease up—and little by little, his body surrendered once more, spreading open for Javert, the drag of Javert’s fingers against his sensitive insides keeping him shuddering until at last, all at once, the widest part of Javert’s hand had passed and the rest of Javert’s fingers pulled free easily.

The sensation left him strangely unbalanced. He felt too light, his body suddenly achingly empty, his hole still stretched open so wide that sudden heat rushed to his face at the thought of Javert staring at him—staring all the way inside him. Even as he squirmed at the thought, Javert’s thumbs came to play with his hole once more, pulling his unresisting muscle wide open. He could feel the sensation of Javert’s hot breath against the sore skin of his hole when Javert laughed.

“You’re so slick and loose I could put anything inside you at all—anything I want.” Javert blew air against him, still holding him open, and Valjean felt his hole spasm in response as he blushed furiously. “I think I’d like that—putting something inside you all night to keep you stretched and eager for me. You’d be in such a sweet mood in the mornings. Would you like that?”

All Valjean managed in response was a helpless groan. Fortunately Javert seemed in no state to set that plan in motion.

“Maybe some other time,” Javert muttered, at last pulling his fingers free. “I want to fuck you. You’re so loose now you’ll probably barely feel it.”

Javert’s hands at long last undid the leather straps that had held Valjean tightly bound for so long. Valjean’s shoulders were stiff, and it took all the strength left to him to pull himself up onto the bed at Javert’s command. Distantly, he could hear the sounds of Javert stripping. A moment later, Javert joined him where he’d collapsed on the bed, Javert’s hands pushing his thighs apart and propping him up with a pillow beneath his hips.

Then Javert was inside him, and although Valjean was too exhausted to move, the angle at which Javert drove into him put pressure at just the right spot so that his over-sensitive cock twitched in agony. Javert took possession of him furiously, with no thought for Valjean’s comfort or pleasure—but then, none was needed, Valjean’s hole so open and welcoming that it yielded easily to anything Javert demanded. It was strange to feel him now, when minutes ago he had felt Javert’s entire hand reaching into him. Yet even now, with his balls sore and empty after Javert’s fist had milked his body of all he had to give, he kept quivering with a strange almost-pleasure, his nerves raw and pained and his spent cock still twitching in instinctive response to Javert’s possession of him.

Valjean heard himself moaning when Javert at last spent himself, the heat of Javert’s release filling him almost as deeply as Javert’s hand had. He offered no resistance even when Javert experimentally fondled his balls again—they still felt painfully swollen and sore, but seemed to find Javert’s approval.

“All empty,” he said when he collapsed next to Valjean with a satisfied sigh. “Impressive. You make a fine stallion—as long as you have a master who can keep you in line.”

Valjean was too exhausted to answer, but it didn’t seem that Javert expected one. With his eyes half-closed, he was dimly aware of Javert cleaning them up. Then, when Javert settled on the bed next to him, Valjean pushed instinctively close and was rewarded by an arm slung around his waist. His body still ached—in a deep, pleasant way. He still felt strangely light and empty, and he was grateful for the weight of Javert’s arm anchoring him.

Beneath his head, Javert’s heartbeat was reassuringly steady. Javert was warm against his skin, and all of a sudden it seemed very easy to close his eyes and allow himself to slip away into sleep, too exhausted for once to think of all the things he couldn’t change and all the choices he’d made. After all, there were no choices to be made here, in Javert’s bed. Javert demanded and Valjean yielded. It was as easy as that.

***

Valjean was still tired when he woke in the morning. His body ached a little, but fortunately Javert preferred a different morning routine anyway.

Javert was asleep, one arm flung across the sheets, his face relaxed and vulnerable. When Valjean pushed back the blanket and bent to his task, he found him still soft.

Carefully, Valjean brushed his mouth along Javert’s length, then used his fingers to coax back the foreskin so he could lick around the sensitive tip until it was slick and gleaming with his saliva. The act brought him a sleepy moan of approval. When he turned to nuzzle against Javert’s shaft once more he found Javert slowly hardening. He sought out Javert’s balls next, kissing them and carefully caressing them with his warm tongue, then sucking them very gently into his mouth.

The weight of Javert’s testicles made blood rush to his face; it was hard to forget the agony of the past night and what Javert had done to his own balls. Even so, Valjean kept his touch worshipful, licking gently, unable to take his mind off the memory of feeling Javert’s balls slap against his skin—and of how much Valjean had needed to feel Javert’s release inside him.

Was it wrong to feel all of this? He couldn’t help but think that it was—but at the same time, a part of him still felt strangely relaxed and at ease, floating on the hazy memories of the past night. There was a simple pleasure to the warmth of Javert’s skin and the taste of his salt that he was unable to resist, the sleepy, pleased sounds that escaped Javert rousing a similar pleasure in him.

When he sucked Javert back into his mouth, Javert was already half-hard and close to waking. His eyes were still closed but his breathing had sped up. His chest gleamed with a thin layer of perspiration, his nipples firm little peaks, the muscles of his stomach shifting beneath his skin as Valjean worshiped him with his tongue the way Javert liked.

Javert didn’t fully wake until he was thick and hot in Valjean’s mouth, his lids fluttering open as a moan broke free from his lips. Even now, with Valjean’s mouth spread open wide in obedience around Javert’s cock, Valjean felt an ache in his heart that made him breathless for a moment as their eyes met. There was a warm softness in Javert’s gaze that he was usually denied. All the sternness of Javert was transformed into vulnerable, unguarded pleasure, his eyes still hazy with sleep as he smiled and reached out to gently bury his fingers in Valjean’s hair.

Javert didn’t speak, but the caress of his fingertips was enough to make Valjean set to work. Something inside him was aching for Javert’s release even though he knew it would break the spell of these morning encounters, when the world was still asleep and Javert, if only for a moment, a warm, comforting presence Valjean wanted to touch and taste and pleasure.

When Javert’s hips rose, Valjean swallowed him deep into his throat until his spread lips met the warm skin at the base of Javert’s cock in a worshipful kiss. Valjean kept his throat relaxed until Javert’s hand tightened in his hair and his cock throbbed, his morning’s release running thick and hot down Valjean’s throat.

Sunlight warmed the bare skin of Valjean’s back when he drew back at last. He cleaned the last traces of Javert’s come and his saliva from Javert’s gleaming cock with his tongue, licking beneath his foreskin while Javert moaned lazily and then finally nudged him away.

To his confusion, Valjean found himself smiling as he stood to pour water into the basin on the wash stand. There was no reason at all that he should feel happy—and he didn’t feel happy, not exactly. A strange calmness had settled over him instead, the realities of his life falling away so that for a moment, the sensation of sunlight on his skin, a warm body against his own, fingers caressing his hair, Javert’s quiet smile and pleasure, came together to warm him like the morning sun falling in through the window.

Outside, it was still winter; despite the light, the air would be cold. But was it truly so wrong to enjoy a rare moment of peace when it came his way?

Valjean returned to the bed and ran a damp cloth over Javert’s skin, who watched him quietly.

“How are you feeling?” Javert said at last.

It was hard to meet Javert’s eyes, but Valjean answered truthfully nevertheless. “Sore. But I’m not in pain.”

Javert seemed utterly at ease despite the events of the past night as he raised his hand and sleepily stroked Valjean’s thigh. When Valjean’s gaze fell on Javert’s hand, he couldn’t help but flush. There was something elegant about Javert’s hand—it wasn’t quite as large as Valjean’s hand, but Javert’s fingers were long and well-formed. It was a hand that had never broken stones in a quarry; instead, it had held a cudgel. Still, it was hard to think of that now with Javert’s hand resting peacefully on his thigh.

Slowly, hesitantly, Valjean felt himself reaching out, lightly covering Javert’s hand with his own. He had been right: his hand was somewhat broader than Javert’s, his fingers worn and callused from his work. Even so, it was impossible to imagine that this hand he held had reached inside him yesterday until Javert could stroke him from within, deep inside where no one had ever touched.

As if he knew what Valjean was thinking, Javert smiled, then turned his hand. Valjean couldn’t keep from tracing his own fingers slowly across Javert’s palm, following the lines there, the memory of those fingers fluttering against his inner walls making his stomach tighten.

“It was good for you,” Javert said lazily, watching him. “You were dripping with it. I’ve never seen you like it before.”

Valjean’s mouth was dry. He didn’t know what to say. He couldn’t deny it.

“What did it feel like?” he asked finally, his eyes still on Javert’s palm.

Slowly, Javert’s fingers curled, lightly intertwining with his own.

“Inside, you’re all hot and soft. Look at you—strong and scarred, just like any other convict. But I could see you, Valjean—so soft and pink inside. So hungry for me.”

Flushing, Valjean had to turn his face away.

“Get up,” Javert said a moment later, his voice still gentle despite the command. “Bend over the desk and spread yourself open for me.”

His heart beating in his throat, Valjean found himself obeying. He was still sore—his hole felt hot and ached when he pulled his buttocks apart for Javert. He had to squeeze his eyes shut, trying to swallow his shame at what Javert had to see when Javert stepped behind him.

Javert was silent for a moment. Then there was the sound of a drawer opening. When Javert finally touched him, his fingers felt cool and slick.

“Sore, but not hurt. Good.” Two of Javert’s fingers slipped into him, then receded. A moment later, they returned, spreading more of the soothing ointment inside him.

“This will help.”

Javert’s fingers twisted gently, working the salve into Valjean. Javert’s touch was considerate, and Valjean knew he should be grateful.

“How does this feel?”

“Good,” Valjean forced out a moment later, feeling lightheaded when Javert’s fingers teased gently against where his knuckles had tormented him so relentlessly last night. Valjean arched his hips, not quite certain whether he wanted to escape the pressure or push into it.

Javert laughed. “Good, and?”

“Good, sir,” Valjean gasped, his hips rolling back when Javert’s fingertips kept up the light, teasing pressure. “Thank you, sir.”

“What pleasing manners you have.” Javert’s voice was thick with affection and something else. His fingers withdrew again and returned with more of the salve, working it inside Valjean, then smoothing the remnants around the swollen rim of his hole.

“There. That will ease your day. Though I still like the thought of sending you out to labor with the bottle inside you. Perhaps another time.”

It was hard to imagine nowadays how mad the sight of Jean Valjean had once driven him. Jean Valjean the convict had endlessly provoked him with his sullen stares; Jean Valjean as Madeleine had infuriated him with his tight grip on his stolen power.

Even then, Javert had often dreamed of what he’d do to wipe that smug smile of Valjean’s face. Now that he’d had Valjean in his power for months, the change he’d wrought in him was almost impossible to believe. He might have imagined back then how good it would feel to force that sullen mouth to open wide around his cock—but how could he have imagined the overwhelming rush of triumph at seeing Valjean not sullen but yielding, attentive to Javert’s needs, bearing whatever Javert demanded of him? He gave everything Javert demanded, until not only his body had yielded and opened for all of Javert’s hand, but he’d come to rest in Javert’s arms afterward, overwhelmed and trusting—as if he were indeed a wild animal Javert had tamed.

There was one downside to the change he had wrought in Valjean. It was decidedly harder to concentrate on his work now with memories of Valjean bound and helpless, hole spread wide around the bottle inside him.

“Sir. There’s mail from the prefecture.” Gilbert interrupted his train of thought just in time, handing him a small stash of letters.

Javert gave him a nod and waited until Gilbert had returned to his small desk near the door before he began to open the first letter.

A warning about a dangerous man with ties to Montreuil who had evaded an arrest in Paris and might show up here to hide in his brother’s shop. Javert committed the description of the man to memory; he would make certain to keep an eye on the shop, and he had an informant who spent his days begging in a street nearby who could keep an eye on the comings and goings for him.

The next letter was an answer to an inquiry Javert had made into a traveler who had seemed to possess the necessary papers despite suspicious behavior; the prefecture’s archives had yielded no results.

It was the third letter that made Javert straighten before he opened it. It came directly from Chief Inspector Gisquet and was addressed to Javert personally. Javert forced himself to read slowly; once he had reached the end, he read it a second time.

Then he smiled and folded the letter, carefully placing it into his drawer.

It was decided. At last—the goal he had worked for so hard and for so long. In one month’s time, Javert would be on his way to Paris. He’d work for the prefecture itself—merely one of several inspectors, of course, but there was the opportunity to rise in Paris.

He well remembered the cold reception when he’d first entered the prefecture, back when he’d been unable to prove his suspicions about Madeleine. He remembered Gisquet’s desk and the agents loitering about as if there was no work for them to do.

It was a desk that would suit him very well. And why not? Chief Inspector Javert of the prefecture of police... It had a nice ring to it. A few years of hard work, and he’d rise above the men who had stared at him with open derision.

In a few years’ time, he’d have an apartment as nice as the one he had now, perhaps in a house with a garden, where the portress and the other inhabitants would greet him respectfully every day. He’d have the respect of every last thug who worked for the prefecture. And he’d have—

Confused, Javert shook his head, trying to shake the vision of Valjean on his knees worshiping his hard cock in the warm light of flickering candles.

Ne, he’d no longer come home to that warm, soft mouth. He’d no longer fall asleep utterly sated, Valjean’s body warming him at night. He’d no longer start his days with Jean Valjean washing and dressing him with careful hands.

Impatiently, Javert tapped his fingers against his desk, then stood as if to dislodge those troubling thoughts.

He’d known all along that it wouldn’t last—the sweet triumph of seeing Jean Valjean put in his place was always meant to be a short diversion, because there were better things waiting for him.

It was a luxury he’d grown too used to, perhaps—but Paris would bring other, better privileges. He would no longer have Valjean’s service, it was true—but he would also no longer ride one of the finest horses in the department. Perhaps it was no wonder that he was loathe to leave the privileges of his post in Montreuil behind; he’d never had them before, after all.

Still, it hadn’t taken him long to forget Toulon and the power he’d enjoyed there. It would be just the same with Paris. After a week or two, Montreuil and Jean Valjean would be forgotten, as would the horses in the stable.

Until then, he had a few weeks left in which to make the best of what he had here.

***

Valjean was on his knees.

Javert had laid out several strips of leather he’d carefully selected from the stable this morning. When Valjean arrived in the evening after he was done with his work, he’d stopped, startled for a moment to see them. He’d raised his eyes to Javert, and Javert had enjoyed the sight of his wariness that immediately gave way to obedience when Javert told him to clean and polish the leather.

Now that Javert had eaten and written several letters, there was time to indulge himself. After all, if there wasn’t much time left, he’d have to make certain to use it well. Who knew what ill habits Valjean would fall back into without his guidance?

It was a shame that he couldn’t take Valjean with him. But his labor belonged to the town, not Javert. He could only hope that whoever followed him in this position would be firm enough to keep Valjean from relapsing into sullen disobedience.

But right now, there was nothing sullen about Valjean. Javert had made him strip before he’d started polishing the leather; Javert was amused to see that by the time Valjean was done, his cock had stirred from its nest of coarse curls.

Leaving his correspondence for now, Javert knelt down by his side and wrapped his hand around Valjean’s cock to stroke it lightly. His skin was hot, and the unexpected touch made Valjean gasp. He was too well-trained to try and thrust into Javert’s fist, but even so Javert had him moaning within minutes.

From a pocket, Javert now pulled a leather cord.

“Hold still,” he said—and Valjean remained obediently still even when Javert began winding the cord tightly around the base of his cock and his balls.

It was a pleasing sight. Javert’s touch had brought Valjean to full hardness, and the tightly tied leather now trapped the blood, his balls plump and red and his cock standing up large and stiff.

“I’ll let you come later if you behave, but only if you’re good.”

Javert ran his hand down Valjean’s back soothingly, contemplating the leather straps before him. After a moment, he pushed Valjean forward. He already knew that Valjean had the strength to hold himself up even if he denied him the use of his arms, and so he ended up tying them behind his back again and using additional straps to wrap tightly around his torso, black leather digging into straining muscles.

Earlier today, when taking Noiraude on a patrol through the lower part of the town, he hadn’t been able to keep from contemplating what Valjean would look like with arms and legs tied to all four corners of the bed, spread and exposed for Javert’s pleasure. Still, he wanted him on his knees today. And as much as he wanted to watch those powerful thighs strain and tremble, that effect could be achieved just as easily by using time instead of leather.

“Very good,” he murmured, grasping Valjean’s chin.

Despite the way Javert had tied him, there was nothing fearful at all in Valjean’s expression. His eyes were wide and dark, but he seemed calm—calmer than he was most days.

Here was proof that Javert had been right all along. Valjean needed a firm hand—much like an unruly stallion, he had ceased to act up as soon as he was forced to submit to his master’s dominance.

“Kiss me,” Javert said, and Valjean leaned forward immediately, his mouth hot and his tongue soft as he kissed Javert the way he liked it.

There’d always been something sweet about Valjean’s kisses, an incongruous hesitation for man like him—a convict who’d spent half his life in the hulks.

There was something even sweeter now about Valjean’s hesitant obedience, the way his tongue shyly slid into Javert’s mouth, the wariness of his first kisses. Originally Javert had assumed that Valjean hadn’t had much experience with kissing—the pleasures of the hulks were brutal, quick affairs from what he’d observed, although it was true that there was the occasional couple that grew as attached as two lovers in an opera. But if the truth was that Valjean had never kissed anyone but Javert before, that was even more pleasing in its own way.

The thought was enough to make him tighten his hands in Valjean’s hair and slide his own tongue deep into Valjean’s mouth to taste him, possessing him as he’d possessed every other part of him. When he drew back, he was breathless, Valjean’s eyes dazed as he panted as well.

Javert smiled and drew his finger along Valjean’s bottom lip. “Open your mouth.”

When Valjean obeyed, Javert drew a small tin from his pocket and took one of the sugared violets, placing them in Valjean’s mouth.

“Good,” he said warmly. “Now bend forward.”

Valjean’s cock was red with blood now, stiffly jutting forward in the empty air as Valjean obeyed. Javert ignored his tightly bound cock to examine his hole instead.

The tight muscle clenched as he blew air against it, as if it was embarrassed and wanted to hide from him when Javert had already seen Valjean loose and open.

But he’d change that.

Earlier today, chance had led him to something that seemed suitable for this purpose—a dusty length of turned wood in a collection of odds and ends in one of the stalls at the market. It had once belonged to a set of four finials meant to adorn bedposts, but as there were only three instead of four on the vendor’s small stall, he’d been happy enough to let Javert take one for a mere two sous.

After a quick noon-time meal consisting of bread and goat’s cheese, Javert had cleaned the piece of wood. It was smooth to the touch and round and narrow at the tip before it flared into a bulbous shape, after which it narrowed only to widen again into a base that would be affixed to the end of the bedpost. He’d thought that it would suit his idea exceedingly well.

Now the time had come to find out.

Javert dipped his finger into the lamp oil and spread it over Valjean’s hole. At his touch, the tight muscle quivered, then relaxed. Instead of pushing inside and watching Valjean’s body open, Javert took hold of the wooden finial and spread oil over it as well. Then he pressed it to Valjean’s hole, holding him spread open with his other hand so he could watch.

It was an entrancing sight. The wooden ornament did not compare at all to the size of Javert’s hand, but that wasn’t why he’d chosen it. In fact, it was somewhat smaller than his cock. With the help of the oil it slid in easily, Valjean’s hole spreading open for it, then tightening around the narrow base once it was all the way inside.

Javert ran his hand down Valjean’s thigh, noting how his muscles had tensed. The sound of his breathing had changed, too—his breath was coming fast now, and when Javert took hold of the wooden finial again, pulling it out a little before pushing it back inside, Valjean moaned.

Javert smiled. “Sit up.”

The motion forced another moan from Valjean as he tried to comply. His chest was heaving when he’d finally struggled into an upright position with the hard wood inside him pressing just there every time he shifted. He was a sight—his eyes wide and dark, his mouth slack with pleasure, his cock harder than ever, still tightly bound by the leather string.

“Good,” Javert said warmly, pleased by what he saw. Then he stood and returned to his desk without another word, dipping his pen into the inkwell guarded by the bronze stallion before he began to pen a letter to Rivette.

Javert took his time writing. He was aware of Valjean but ignored him for the most part, although every time Valjean tried to shift a little, the motion forced another moan from his throat and Javert felt the warm rush of triumph.

How far Valjean come. He was not at all the same man who’d watched Javert from those sullen eyes, every gaze trying to paint Javert as the villain and Valjean as the innocent martyr in this game they were playing. Now, instead, Valjean’s gaze was soft and yielding—and he’d learned that yielding brought its own rewards.

Half an hour passed until the letter was finished. By that time, Valjean’s torso was gleaming with sweat, his nipples hard peaks, his chest rising and falling rapidly. His cock was still beautifully swollen, an angry, dark red and so erect it smeared fluid over the hard muscles of Valjean’s stomach every time he inhaled.

His tightly bound balls hung beneath his cock like firm, swollen plums, and Javert felt a momentary regret. The sight of Valjean’s tightly constrained virility truly was a glorious work of art that should be proudly shown off—yet no one but him would ever enjoy this display. No, the people of this town would be glad to see Javert leave; not one would ever be able to appreciate that he had taken this rebellious stallion and broken it to his touch.

He stood, stretching, then went to light another lamp. It was getting dark and he wanted to appreciate what was to follow.

When the room was brightly light and the curtain closed, he returned to Valjean’s side. Thoughtfully, he wrapped his hand around his bound balls. They felt hot and full, and Valjean groaned at the touch, his cock giving an involuntary twitch.

Javert smiled and leaned his head against Valjean’s. “Milked yesterday and yet you’re already aching again. Shall I take you for another ride? It seems you need it.”

He reached for Valjean’s cock before Valjean could answer. All that escaped Valjean was another desperate moan when Javert tightened his hand, then slowly slid it up and down. Valjean’s cock was slick with the fluid that had steadily dripped from the tip, and Javert was intrigued for a moment by the thought of leaving him like this all evening. How long could Valjean take it?

He would take it all evening if that was what Javert wanted, there was no doubt in his mind. Perhaps another time Javert might have attempted to see how long he could deny Valjean and keep his obedience—but he couldn’t forget the letter and that the time that remained was limited now.

“Stand,” Javert said.

He kept a steadying hand on Valjean as he led him to the bed. As strong as Valjean was, walking with the ornament inside him was enough to make his thighs tremble and his steps unsteady. 

Once he had Valjean on the bed, he arranged him for his pleasure. Spread out on his back, his arms still tightly tied behind his back, Valjean’s chest had a pleasing arch, the tight buds of his nipples on display, his red, desperate cock arching straight upwards. It was a sight Javert was truly going to miss.

Javert began by leaning over Valjean and kissing him, Valjean’s mouth soft and hot and desperate, sweet with the sugared violet.

“This is how I like you,” he said when he drew back. “You’ve been good so far. If you keep behaving, I’ll let you come. Would you like to come?”

Valjean could barely form words at this point, but even so he nodded, his breathless gasp turning into a moan when Javert gently teased a small, tight nipple.

“Please, sir.”

Javert bent forward and licked at Valjean’s nipple instead, then let Valjean feel his teeth. It won him another moan, Valjean’s hips desperately trying to lift off the bed—but there was nothing for him to thrust into but empty air.

Javert laughed and continued to slowly make his way downward, tracing the muscles of Valjean’s stomach with his tongue and tasting the salty sheen of sweat that made them shine in the light of the lamp.

He could smell Valjean—the scent of his arousal was hot and heavy. When he kept licking downward, he could taste him, too, Valjean’s stomach slick with the fluid that had constantly dripped from his cock, the clean salt of his sweat mixing with the bitter tang of his desperation.

Once he reached the root of Valjean’s cock, Javert nuzzled the nest of coarse hair, breathing in deeply. Valjean reeked of his need, his musk heavy and thick. How long had Javert kept him in this state of despair? Surely it had to be close to an hour now.

Valjean’s cock was dark with blood, swollen and as hard as a rod of iron as it stood up stiff and straight—still as impressive as when he’d seen him the first time. Valjean had been soft then, back in the hulks, and Javert had only been able to imagine what he might look like when aroused.

A brute, he’d thought back then—an animal, with the cock of an animal, large and threatening and brutal.

And it was the cock of an animal he beheld right now—but as threatening as it might appear, Valjean’s cock knew as well as Valjean who its master was. All its thick, virile splendor was constrained, tightly leashed by Javert—and so it would remain for as long as Javert pleased, with the relentless penetration of the wooden ornament reminding Valjean that his body belonged to Javert.

“Look at you, dripping all over yourself,” he said, his voice thick with lust and a certain affection he couldn’t entirely deny. “You just can’t help yourself.”

Another bead of liquid had gathered at the tip of Valjean’s cock. As Javert watched, it began to run down the side, slowly dripping down Valjean’s shaft. Valjean groaned, a vein throbbing.

Javert moistened his lips. Then, irresistibly drawn forward by the sight, he licked up Valjean’s cock, lapping at the small bead of fluid until he could feel it on his tongue, warm and bitter.

Valjean groaned again. His muscles strained against the merciless tightness of the leather that bound him and Javert laughed in response, thoughtfully licking his lips once more to savor the taste.

“You’re not going to come. Don’t even think of it.”

Then he bent over Valjean and closed his mouth around the tip of Valjean’s cock, finally giving into the hunger that had been gnawing at him. The sound Valjean made sent a new wave of heat through him—so desperate it almost sounded like Valjean was in pain.

And of course he might well be with his cock swollen to impressive firmness, the leather cord keeping him achingly hard for Javert’s amusement for close to an hour now.

Javert tightened his lips around the crown of Valjean’s cock, exploring the wet, spongy head with his tongue while Valjean cried out, his hips instinctively trying to jerk up again. Javert pressed his tongue to the small slit at the tip and sucked, moaning in appreciation at the taste that filled his mouth. Valjean’s taste was all animal desperation too—hot and musky and desperate, his cock so painfully swollen, bound as it was, that another man might have shown mercy now.

Javert lightly stroked Valjean’s balls instead, feeling the heavy globes shift beneath the skin as he licked and explored to his heart’s content while beneath him, Valjean’s sweat-slick body trembled. He could taste Valjean on his tongue—an endless, steady flow of bitter fluid that kept welling up at the tip as Valjean’s balls throbbed, again and again, but could not achieve the result they so desperately wanted.

By the time he’d licked and tasted Valjean all over, Valjean’s cock was gleaming wet and a deep, dark red, his balls swollen a pretty purple. Javert’s own cock was nearly as hard as Valjean’s, throbbing steadily, but he knew he’d find release soon enough. It was Valjean, after all, who was truly suffering, his hips shifting with helpless little jerks. Trapped between the wooden ornament inside him and Javert’s mouth on him, the tightly tied leather kept him unable from achieving release, no matter how much his trapped balls throbbed in Javert’s hand.

Javert’s mouth was unlike anything Valjean had ever felt—hot and wet and soft, it played with him, teasing him until he thought he could take it no longer, his cock swollen so hard that the leather cords bit deep into his skin.

By the time Javert finally released him, Valjean was barely able to think, trapped in an endless circle of agonizing pleasure between Javert’s mouth and the wooden tool inside him.

“Look at you,” Javert murmured, eyes hot and pleased as he trailed a finger down Valjean’s chest.

Valjean had barely enough strength left to move, his entire body throbbing. His cock was swollen a deep red, straining upwards, wet from Javert’s mouth—but unable to find the release he needed so badly now.

“Do you want me to fuck you?”

“Please,” Valjean groaned, nuzzling into Javert’s touch when Javert leaned over him.

Javert made an appreciative sound, his thumb teasing at Valjean’s mouth.

“Shall I untie you? Do you think you can control yourself?”

Valjean nearly sobbed with the agonizing need for release. Even so, he shook his head.

“I don’t think I can,” he admitted hoarsely, ignoring the constant, throbbing ache of his swollen balls. And it was true—he ached so desperately that he feared he’d come the moment Javert cut the ties.

Javert made a thoughtful sound as he contemplated Valjean’s cock, then nudged his balls with a fingertip. The touch was enough to make Valjean draw in a sudden breath, his body as tense as a wire as heat raced up his spine, his back arching—but nothing else happened, just the relentless, hot throb of his bound genitals.

“Then you will have to wait.” Javert still spoke softly, but even so Valjean could hear the hunger in it. “I like you like this—straining, but constrained. All that power at my command.”

Javert licked his lips, then bent forward to kiss him. Valjean found himself moaning in surprise at the taste of Javert’s tongue. He knew the taste of Javert intimately well—the taste of his sweat, the taste of his come, the taste of his mouth. But today was the first time Javert’s mouth was bitter with the traces of Valjean’s pleasure, and even though Valjean hadn’t found release, he found himself licking into Javert’s mouth, helpless and hungry, wanting more of his heat, wanting more of him, wanting more of his games.

When Javert drew back, his lips were swollen and wet, his eyes soft.

“Beautiful,” he murmured, his thumb teasing at Valjean’s mouth again. Then he drew in a deep breath and reluctantly straightened, helping Valjean to turn and settle on his knees.

At the slightest motion, Valjean could feel the pressure of the wooden tool inside him, keeping him stretched open for Javert and massaging him right there—reminding him of the pleasure that was to come, if Javert was willing to give it to him. Valjean panted, aching for it now—aching for Javert, the warm, living heat of him instead of the relentless pressure of the wood.

A moment later, Javert returned to his side, running an admiring hand down his back.

“Wet with sweat already,” he said while Valjean trembled, “and I haven’t even started to work you.”

Then there was a faint metallic jingle before Javert’s hand came forward, presenting something to Valjean that he had half expected. Breathing heavily, Valjean had already lowered his head in surrender before he realized just what it was Javert held—not the bit he’d felt in his mouth before. Not the simple bar of metal.

This was the bit Javert had brought from Father Boulet’s stable, the bit he’d forced Valjean to clean and polish.

Valjean stared at the spikes protruding from the iron, instinctive fear making his stomach clench. Javert ran his hand down his back again, slow and patient, the bit still presented on his other hand.

Would it not hurt to have it in his mouth? The bit looked cruel, and the thought of the harsh spikes digging into his lips made him shiver, even though moments earlier he would have agreed to anything at all just to feel Javert in him again.

Javert didn’t speak. He just stroked him, his hand rubbing gentle circles into his sweat-slick back, his other hand patiently showing the bit to him as if he truly was no more than a skittish horse Javert knew would eventually calm and bend to his will.

Valjean exhaled, imagining denying Javert. He didn’t think Javert would force it. He never had, not in this. Javert enjoyed the sight of him surrendering willingly to everything he’d fought against, proving that Javert had been right from the start.

But then, it was true that so far, Javert had always been right. Valjean’s surrender was inevitable. It had always been. What use was it to fight against it?

And Javert had never asked for more than was bearable. Even when he had stretched Valjean open so wide it seemed impossible, Valjean had been able to take it.

Maybe this could be borne, too, and then Javert would have had his will in all ways.

It was a seductive thought, trapped as Valjean was between the wooden toy inside him and the leather keeping his cock hard and unable to find release. Surrender would mean an end to his torment. Surrender would mean peace—and wasn’t there a part of him even now that wanted it, that yearned for that quiet moment when he was trembling and helpless and utterly Javert’s, all thoughts of the past or the future gone?

Javert was still quietly stroking him, and Valjean bit back a despairing sob as he lowered his head in a final surrender, parting his mouth for the punishment of the bit.

He could feel the spikes dig into the corners of his mouth as Javert fastened the mouthpiece with a leather strap that went around Valjean’s head. He was forced to keep his mouth open wide to keep the spikes from digging painfully into his lips, and he panted, aware once more of the leather Javert had used to tie his arms. He was truly helpless now. The bit would stay in his mouth until Javert chose to free him.

And even now his cock was achingly hard, the ties keeping him so aroused so that his cock throbbed with every beat of his heart.

Then Javert took hold of his face again, his thumb stroking along Valjean’s bottom lip while Valjean panted.

“Perhaps I should put blinkers on you,” Javert said, soft and hoarse. “So that you can’t see what’s done to you—only feel.”

Valjean trembled, disoriented by the image Javert’s words conjured in his mind. But instead, Javert next fastened a length of leather to the bit—much longer than the strap of leather that tied it in place around Valjean’s head.

Reins.

Javert smiled when he saw Valjean come to the realization and gave them a slight tug. Immediately, Valjean stretched his neck, trying to escape the painful sensation of the cruel spikes digging into sensitive skin.

“There. So responsive. Is this what it takes to get instant obedience?” Javert asked warmly, and Valjean found himself panting again, confused by the need to press his head against Javert but longing for a touch all the same.

Javert gathered the reins and slung them over Valjean’s back, then stroked his face once more before he moved away.

Valjean could feel the mattress dip when Javert knelt behind him, one hand curving around a buttock. A moment later, Javert spread him open, nudging the wooden toy inside him until Valjean made a muffled sound, the spikes digging into his mouth again as he arched his back at the intense sensation.

“You can have something better,” Javert said with a low, pleased laugh. “I know you like my cock. And this has warmed you up nicely for me. Look how eager you are.”

Valjean could indeed feel himself clenching around the toy as Javert began to work it out of him. It resisted Javert’s grasp for a moment and Valjean was almost grateful, his hips pushing back against Javert for more of the sensation as his cock throbbed, painfully inflamed.

With another laugh Javert grabbed hold of the reins. “Easy,” he said, spikes digging hard into Valjean’s mouth.

Valjean immediately stilled with a sound he didn’t recognize as anything a human would make, his entire body hot and throbbing as he allowed Javert to work the toy out of him.

It had been inside him for so long that the oil must have worn off; his hole felt sore and over-stretched when Javert made his body open for him again, rubbing the swollen rim until he’d relaxed enough for the largest part of the toy to pass through. Then Javert’s thumbs slid inside him instead, holding him stretched open while Valjean trembled.

“You do want my cock, don’t you?”

Shuddering, Valjean heard himself make another sound, low and desperate, spikes digging into his mouth even as he eagerly pushed back against Javert. His thighs were burning with the effort of holding himself up while his arms were tied behind his back, but he would have done worse at that moment—anything Javert asked, anything he wanted him to do.

“Don’t worry, you’ll have all of it.”

Javert stroked his hip approvingly. Then Valjean could feel his cock against his hole, his body yielding easily when Javert pushed forward to possess him with a hard, long stroke that speared him to the core while Javert groaned in satisfaction.

Javert was hot inside him, and deep—deeper than the toy had been, hot and alive and possessing him as if Valjean’s body had been made to pleasure him.

And perhaps that was true—tied as he was, unable to move or find release and painfully aware of the spikes digging into his lips, everything else fell away but the sensation of Javert’s cock inside him, every thrust massaging him from within until he was trembling, aching for more instead of an end.

When Javert took up the reins again, Valjean heard an animal’s plaintive whine escape his throat, the spikes digging deep enough into the corners of his mouth to draw blood. Open-mouthed, he panted. With the bit forcing him to keep his lips parted, saliva had begun to drip from his mouth. Shame burned inside him at the thought of how it had to look, but there was nothing he could do. And when Javert tugged on the reins again, the iron spikes so agonizing they had to have drawn blood this time, he obeyed shakily, pushing back to impale himself on Javert’s cock until he could feel the warm weight of Javert’s balls against the swollen, painfully tied ballsack between his own legs.

Another hard thrust made Valjean’s cock jerk against his stomach, so erect he feared the leather ties might draw blood. Valjean exhaled noisily, throwing up his head like a rebellious horse trying to escape the bit.

Javert would have none of it. He shortened the reins as he thrust back inside. As more saliva dripped from Valjean’s open mouth, spikes piercing the corners of his mouth, Valjean stilled obediently. The reins were so short now that he had to keep his back arched while Javert kept thrusting into him, no stimulation for Valjean except for the steady friction of Javert sliding in and out of his yielding body until Valjean was trembling again, his face wet with tears, the spikes cutting deep into his lips as he allowed himself to be used however Javert liked.

Javert kept the reins short. It was impossible to fight the bit—it had been designed to subdue a headstrong horse, and despite Valjean’s strength, all he could do was hold still, sweat running down his back from the effort of holding the position Javert had forced his body into. Javert took him at such an angle that his thrusts became almost unbearably pleasurably, even with the spikes digging deep into Valjean’s skin. Before it was over, Valjean found himself sobbing with muffled, desperate sounds as he tried to arch even more, desperate for more of Javert, desperate to be whatever Javert wanted him to be, his thighs trembling as he held himself in the position Javert had forced him to hold.

Dimly, he felt Javert’s release warm and wet inside him, Javert’s groan of satisfaction followed by the easing of the reins.

His mouth open, his eyes closed, Valjean continued to gasp for breath. His cock was on fire, a constant, throbbing ache between his legs. With his mouth sore and bleeding, the iron still on his tongue, he’d never been more aware of Javert’s mastery over him. He couldn’t even move without Javert’s assistance now—anything he felt, whether pain or pleasure, he felt at Javert’s leisure.

A moment later, Javert slid out of him. His thumb teased at Valjean’s hole, then there was the familiar pressure of the wooden toy once more. Even hot and sore as his hole was, it opened easily for Javert’s demand, although it forced another muffled moan from Valjean when Javert pushed the wooden tool back into place, the bulbous head causing just enough pressure inside that his cock throbbed miserably once more.

“Come here,” Javert murmured, his voice thick and satisfied. His hand trailed up Valjean’s arched back as he settled next to him. Then Javert reached out to touch his face.

Valjean was still panting, his heart racing in his chest. His face was wet with tears and the saliva he couldn’t stop dripping from his mouth with the agonizing bit forcing his mouth open, but Javert didn’t seem to mind. Instead, Javert’s thumb drew an admiring circle against his wet cheek, then traveled down to where the spikes had cut deep into the corner of his mouth.

Valjean couldn’t speak. Helplessly, he gazed at Javert, ignoring the pain as he pressed his tongue against the spiked iron, the sound that escaped him when he tried to plead nothing more than a muffled, inhuman moan.

Some of the warm trickle of fluids down his chin had to be blood; the corners of his mouth were in agony. Even so he was still helplessly aroused, his body pulsing with need as Javert’s thumb pressed very gently against where the spikes had pierced his lips. Again Valjean made a muffled sound, no longer trying to speak. It was the sound of an animal, low and wounded, but he still turned his head into Javert’s touch, pressing his wet cheek against his hand.

Javert drew in a deep breath. Then his hands went around Valjean’s head, opening the leather strap. He eased the bit out of Valjean’s mouth with his own hands as Valjean watched him, grateful and helpless and hurting with a pain that went far deeper than the cut corners of his mouth or his tightly bound cock.

Then Javert released the straps that had tied his arms, and the return of blood to his limbs forced a groan from Valjean. Javert helped him settle down on his back, Valjean’s cock aching unbearably as the smallest motion made the wooden toy within him send waves of fire through his tormented body.

Javert’s smile widened a little as he drew his hand down the sweat-slick skin of Valjean’s stomach. “I’m going to cut the ties. If you manage not to come, I’ll make it much better for you.”

Dazed, Valjean watched as Javert took up a small, sharp knife. A moment later, the ties dug even harder into his swollen flesh before the pressure abruptly eased.

Valjean drew in a breath. Then blood came rushing in and he groaned again, his hips rising off the bed in agony—and a soft, wet heat enveloped him, Javert’s hands on his hips holding him steady as Javert’s mouth closed around the tip of his cock, sucking voraciously.

Distantly, Valjean could hear himself cry out, the ache in his freed balls so fierce that he was half afraid of what was going to happen. Javert’s hand enclosed him, fingertips rubbing Valjean’s swollen balls while his other hand firmly stroked his cock, and Valjean at last lost all control over himself once more, abandoning himself to Javert’s hold on him just as he had earlier.

Javert’s mouth drew away just in time. Valjean was dimly aware of the wet splash of release on his chest as he arched like a tormented man. After such a long time, his release was almost more pain than pleasure, every nerve in his body raw and flaring into white-hot heat. When it was over, he found himself still trembling, his face still wet.

Cautiously, he raised a hand to his mouth, touching the inflamed corner where the spikes must have cut deep. When he drew it away, he gazed at it in confusion for a long moment. There was no blood on his fingertip. And when he just as cautiously probed his lips with his tongue, he could not find any wounds.

Javert laughed. “You think I’d hurt that mouth of yours? I still have too many uses for it.”

Javert held out his hand again. There was one of the round sugar dragées of aniseed on it, and this time it was easy to bend his head, no shame or resentment, just the warmth of Javert’s skin and the sweetness of the sugar melting in Valjean’s mouth and the appreciative sound Javert made, his thumb stroking along Valjean’s swollen lip.

Quiet and overwhelmed, Valjean watched as Javert wiped them both down. He was grateful, Javert’s touch soothing. He didn’t think he could have stood even if Javert had ordered him to, and his mind seemed to move only very slowly. Then, when Javert joined him on the bed and held out an arm, Valjean came to him immediately, pressing his own body to the warmth of Javert, aware on some level that there was shame in this surrender—more shame than in what he’d let Javert do earlier.

Still, Valjean was exhausted—as exhausted in body and mind as he’d been after a whipping in the hulks, although it was true that Javert had not hurt him in any way.

Perhaps that was reason enough to disregard the shame. He’d trusted Javert not to hurt him, and Javert hadn’t, no matter what form the surrender he demanded took. Valjean was past shame now, too weary to think. He’d surrendered all.

And now, at the end of everything, past shame, past pain, he needed to rest—even if it meant that Javert had won, that Javert had been right about Valjean from the start. Javert truly had tamed him, just as he’d said he would, and Valjean could no longer say whether that was so wrong.

Javert’s hand was slowly trailing up and down his back, Javert’s own breath already slow, his body utterly relaxed. Valjean remained quiet as Javert toyed with his hair for a while. The wooden toy was still inside him, and so was Javert’s release, and Valjean didn’t mind that either.

After a while, Valjean reached out himself, watching the play of shadow and light on his hand as he gently touched Javert’s face. He trailed his fingertips along the line of Javert’s beard, aware of the way Javert was gazing at him, but content for once to be watched so inquisitively.

Javert’s skin was warm and soft, still lightly damp, the hair of his beard coarse against Valjean’s fingertips. Awake, Javert had always seemed a different man; there was little softness in him even now. But there was a calmness in him, as if something deep inside had quieted. It was soothing.

At last Javert sighed regretfully and turned his head, nuzzling against Valjean’s hand. “In three weeks’ time, I’m leaving for Paris. I’ll be an inspector of the prefecture at last.”

In the morning, Javert woke to the familiar sensation of a hot, wet mouth paying homage to his cock. Keeping his eyes closed, he relaxed into the bed, remembering the view he had enjoyed so much during the past night: Valjean straining and wet with sweat, his cock and balls swollen a dark red, the painful bit in his mouth making him responsive to the slightest tug on the reins while his body clenched around Javert’s cock.

This was different, but just as delightful. Valjean’s mouth was slow and reverent, his tongue worshiping him the way he liked it, pleasure building slowly until Valjean finally swallowed him into his throat, all the way down to the root.

Javert moaned in satisfaction and reached out to thread his fingers through Valjean’s hair. He held him in place as he idly rolled up his hips, enjoying the slow, sweet slide into the constricting heat of Valjean’s throat.

Then he released him and Valjean drew back to breathe before he saw to his duties once more, and this time when Valjean swallowed him down, Javert remembered with faint amusement that he’d left the wooden ornament inside Valjean after he’d pulled out last night. The thought of Valjean sleeping filled with his seed had been pleasing then; it was still pleasing now as he was nearing release again.

Idly, he considered pulling out of Valjean’s mouth and coming inside him again to fill him even more—but Valjean’s mouth was sweet and eager and it was early; he was content to let Valjean do the work.

Instead, he buried his fingers in Valjean’s hair again, stroking him as he thought of his body rearing up, spitted on Javert’s cock, desperate to obey. That was how Javert found his release, the first pulse of it going straight down Valjean’s throat before Valjean pulled back a little, catching it on his tongue the way Javert liked it.

Lazily, Javert opened his eyes when he was done, greeted by the familiar but no less pleasing sight of Valjean’s reddened lips spread wide around the head of his cock. Valjean’s eyes were dark and dazed, which was more unusual—he usually only looked that lost in his pleasure after Javert had already spent some time working him over.

When Valjean released him, Javert finally remembered once more the wooden ornament inside Valjean. It had caused a most gratifying effect—Valjean’s own cock was pleasingly firm, curved against his stomach, and whenever Valjean moved, he trembled a little, the sensation of the finial inside him quite obviously pleasurable.

Javert smiled and ran his hand down Valjean’s side before he tugged him upward to kiss him, pushing his tongue hungrily inside when Valjean yielded his mouth just as he yielded all other parts of himself. Javert could taste himself on Valjean’s tongue, which sparked a warm glow of satisfaction within him.

How many mornings had started like this? Here was indeed one thing he’d miss in Paris.

“I see you’ve enjoyed spending the night with my come inside you,” he said and laughed softly when Valjean flushed.

Even so, there was no way Valjean could deny it, especially when Javert reached down and gave his swollen cock a pointed tug.

“Fortunately for you, I’m in a generous mood.”

It was near impossible to wake in a bad mood when for months now, Javert had been roused from slumber by the loving attentions of a mouth devoted to his needs. It would be hard to leave that behind. No matter how appealing the position in Paris was, during all the years that Javert had dreamed of it, he’d never once imagined that one day, there’d be something that position couldn’t give him.

But then, those feelings would pass. Work would keep him busy enough. And he’d still have the satisfaction of having unmasked Jean Valjean. It would be enough.

He nudged Valjean until he got into position—on his hands and knees, facing away from Javert, so that he had a good view of Valjean’s muscular backside. His hole was slightly swollen and reddened, which only increased Javert’s good mood. He truly had ridden him hard last night.

“Let’s make you feel better,” he said generously, dipping his fingers into the lamp oil on his nightstand. “Hold still.”

Not that it would take the command, Valjean was obedient enough these days. Still, his thighs tensed and he trembled when Javert ran a fingertip over his swollen hole, the muscle warm and puffy where it had been spread open around the ornament all night. Javert stroked him until Valjean had relaxed, his head low and his balls drawn up tight. Then Javert nudged the wooden toy, and Valjean moaned, his balls twitching.

It was harder this time to work the ornament out of him; Javert had to apply oil again before it would slide in and out smoothly, stretching the abused muscle open wide with the bulbous middle part. Every time Javert pushed it back inside, Valjean gasped, his buttocks tensing and his cock giving a little jerk.

Javert amused himself with that game until Valjean’s cock had begun dripping incessantly. Then, at last, he grabbed hold of Valjean’s cock, pulling it back towards himself so that he could enjoy the view as he stroked him.

After the long wait, it didn’t take long. The lightest touch of his fingers to the head of his cock made Valjean moan, his hips shifting in a beguiling, circular motion as Javert kept fucking him with the finial.

Finally, when Valjean was hot and throbbing in his hand and gasping for breath, Javert allowed the ornament to pop free. For a moment, Valjean’s hole gaped open, loose and inviting, before a string of Javert’s come seeped from it. The sight made something flare up inside Javert—not hunger, for that had been sated, but another sort of need just as fierce. Javert slid his fingers through it, then shoved them roughly into Valjean two at a time, curling them while giving Valjean’s cock another harsh, demanding pull. This time, the sound that escaped Valjean was almost a shout, his cock twitching helplessly in Javert’s grasp as it shot string after string of warm come all over Javert’s chest.

“Impressive.” Amused, Javert released Valjean, who seemed barely able to keep himself upright. “Looks like you have some cleaning up to do.”

When Valjean had at last managed to shift himself around on trembling limbs, Javert could see that his eyes were still wide and dark. The sight sent a familiar, hungry pang of satisfaction through him. He’d done that. He’d driven Valjean to that point where he became willing and yielding, so pleasing, so unlike the sullen man who used to shout at him.

Valjean was pleasing in this as well, lapping up his release from Javert’s chest with careful licks of his warm tongue while Javert threaded his fingers through his hair once more.

“You’re going to miss me so much,” Javert murmured, rubbing his thumb against the corner of Valjean’s mouth which had been reddened by the bit yesterday, and which was stained with traces of his seed now. “No one else knows how to handle you.”

Valjean froze for a moment. Just as he had the night before, he remained silent and turned his face away from Javert, who kept pondering that peculiar reaction.

“Aren’t you pleased?” Javert said at last. “It’s what you’ve been waiting for. You’ll no longer have to serve me. You can go back to doing—whatever it is you would have done if I hadn’t kept an eye on you. Reading the Bible to that woman, most likely.”

That got him the reaction he thought it would.

“Her name is Fantine,” Valjean said, although even that held less rancor than it used to.

If Javert didn’t know better, he really might have believed that Valjean would miss him.

But then, wasn’t it true that Valjean had changed? Javert had wrought a change in him; it was undeniable. And Valjean wasn’t stupid. Perhaps he, too, could see that without Javert, who knew him like no other, he might slide back into old habits.

“None of those sullen looks of yours.” Javert was surprised by how the words came out—not as the warning he’d intended, but filled with warmth.

He curved his hand around Valjean’s nape to hold him in place, marveling once more at the power of those muscles.

“What do you want me to say?” Valjean said, hesitating a moment. “Sir.”

“I don’t know.” Javert rubbed his finger against Valjean’s mouth again.

Even though Valjean’s brows were drawn together, his lips parted, allowing Javert to slide his finger inside. Javert drew in a breath at the sudden, sharp spark of hunger—he’d thought himself thoroughly sated, but there was something to having Valjean give himself up that never failed to make him want more.

Well, he would soon enough live without. It was a shame—just when he’d broken in his favorite skittish stallion. What other reactions might he have been able to draw forth in the weeks to come?

But it was no use wasting time wondering about things that couldn’t be. Valjean would no longer be able to hind behind the mask of a bourgeois, and Javert had better things to do with his life than guard an indentured servant in a provincial town.

He pulled his finger out of Valjean’s mouth and tapped it playfully against his bottom lip. “But you do see, don’t you, that I was right in everything I’ve ever told you? I told you I’d have your obedience, and I did. I told you you’d take that bit willingly—and you did. And it feels good, surrendering to what’s right. Doesn’t it?”

Valjean’s lips narrowed again. His eyes were still dark, although the softness had gone from them. “What I don’t understand,” he said at last, his voice strangely shaky, “is why you want my trust if that’s all it is.”

“I never—” Javert began, only to be interrupted.

“You have everything from me now—but you could have had it from the start. You could have chained me and taken what you wanted. But you made me choose it—every step of the way. Everything you did, I had to live with the shame of having chosen it myself. And I’ve done whatever you wanted. Whatever you asked for. I let you—your entire hand, Javert.” Valjean shuddered, his eyes pleading and intense, focused on Javert as if he was the only thing left in the world. “It was what you wanted from me. My trust. If you didn’t want it, you could have shoved your hand into me that very first night and enjoyed my screams. You wanted me willing. You wanted me to trust you. Don’t pretend it was just to teach me a lesson.”

Valjean seemed strangely upset when he should have been relieved. Was he worried, perhaps, that the town’s next chief of police would be stricter than Javert? Experience had taught Javert that that was unlikely.

“I wanted you willing because I wanted you to submit to authority, to what was right. Is that so upsetting to you? You, more than any of the other servants, needed strict guidance.”

Valjean laughed—a strange, hoarse sound close to a sob, and then he turned his face away.

“You don’t even know,” he said bitterly, and then he remained silent, no matter what else Javert said.

***

It was rather a pity that Valjean had chosen to revert to sullenness during the final few weeks Javert had of his company. His bouts of moodiness never lasted long—Javert saw to that, too experienced with Valjean’s tricks to allow that to darken his days. Still, these days, even after Valjean had lovingly sucked his cock to hardness in the mornings or washed him reverently or taken pieces of bread or roast goose from Javert’s fingers, Valjean would revert to gaze at him with that pained martyr’s gaze Javert had come to know so well.

It was especially puzzling because Javert had done nothing to bring forth that old reaction. He was too busy preparing his departure to allow Fantine’s rebellious nature to provoke him, and it had been a while since he’d taken out his frustrations on Valjean’s hide.

Perhaps that was the problem. Perhaps what Valjean needed was a good strapping to driven the sullenness out of him. Yet as much as Javert would enjoy the view of Valjean’s impressive hindquarters quivering at the impact of his belt, time was short now. He had to divide his evenings between letters to Paris—trying to secure lodging—and going through his sparse possessions which, surprisingly, had grown more than he’d imagined after his time in Montreuil, which was a problem given the limited space for luggage in the post coach. He had acquired more books he was reluctant to leave behind—and there was also the inkstand in the form of a stallion that had once graced Madeleine’s office and now had a place of honor on Javert’s own desk.

On his last evening in Montreuil, Javert ran a finger down the arched back of the bronze stallion. Then he wrapped it carefully in one of his old shirts and placed it into his valise. Everything was prepared for his departure now, the rooms bare of most of his possessions.

When he looked up, he saw that Valjean had stopped in his work and was watching him from his spot by the stove where he had been polishing Javert’s boots. Javert felt a smile tug on his lips as he watched him. What a change he had wrought in Valjean. It was hard to believe that this was the same man who had once so infuriated him, who had lied and dared to give him orders and rolled his eyes at him.

Now Valjean was quiet, his posture relaxed, gazing at Javert from dark eyes. What was he thinking? It was hard to say, but Javert liked to imagine that Valjean was feeling the same nostalgic appreciation of the time they had shared in these rooms.

Javert exhaled, then nodded towards the bedroom. “Come to bed,” he said softly.

Valjean rose, silent and obedient for all that those puzzling lines of pain still surrounded his mouth.

Valjean had woken early. For a while, he had remained where he was, unable to disentangle his doubts and fears from the soothing warmth of Javert’s limbs. Javert didn’t seem to feel any of the anxieties his touch engendered in Valjean—he never had. In repose, Javert softened, but even so he seemed perfectly at ease where he was, as if he had never known a single moment of confusion at finding Jean Valjean curled against him in his sleep.

Of course, all of this was easy for Javert. He was in control. Any why should he not feel comfortable with possessing a man he had hunted for so long? There was no shame in that.

It was Jean Valjean himself who had sought out his own degradation—who even now couldn’t help but feel himself responding to Javert’s closeness, the smooth warmth of his limbs, inexplicably comforted by the weight of the arm slung across his chest.

All of this meant nothing to Javert. Valjean had given him everything—anything Javert had ever demanded. He’d let Javert pull him open and reach inside him and wrap his fingers around his heart, and now Javert was going to leave without another thought for Valjean. As if Valjean’s surrender, which had been so painful and cost him so much, was nothing at all.

Valjean closed his eyes, unable to deal with the sight of Javert’s face lit by the first rays of the morning sun.

He rested in his arms for a long time, listening to Javert breathe, trying to find in himself the part that had fought for his freedom, escaping from the hulks again and again despite the punishments he knew would follow. He should be glad that he would finally be free. Without Javert, his life would be easier. And then, Robert had promised help. Robert might be mayor soon enough, and then he would have the power to send Valjean to work on one of his farms where people wouldn’t stare at him all day and think of the man he had pretended to be.

But with Javert warm and firm and real against him, all those thoughts seemed like fanciful imaginings. What life was there without the routine Javert had given to his days? What friendship could there be for a man who had surrendered to Javert again and again? If Robert knew what he’d done in this bedroom, would he still want to offer his help?

The minutes crawled by. Eventually, Valjean could hear the sounds of the water-carrier outside. On a normal day, he would have woken Javert by now. Why did he hesitate today?

It wasn’t the act itself. It should have been humiliating to serve Javert in such a way, but Valjean couldn’t deny that despite the shame, there was pleasure in giving pleasure. The act didn’t scare him; Javert had made certain that he grew good at it, and he had.

But once he woke Javert, it would all be over. Javert would rise, Valjean would wash and dress him, and then Javert would leave—and Valjean would be left behind like this apartment, just another piece of furniture that had served its purpose, engendering no more feelings in Javert than the regret it caused him to leave Noiraude behind.

Usually, he woke Javert before the rays of light that fell in through the window had wandered across the bed and reached his face. Valjean knew that he should have his mouth full of Javert’s cock at this point, but he couldn’t tear himself away from the view.

Javert’s face was soft and his mouth relaxed. Every line, every small scar, every dip and rise were intimately familiar to him. Their memory had burned itself into his soul just as much as the outline of the silver coin was burned into his palm. No matter where he went, he didn’t think there’d ever be a day when he wouldn’t be able to recall the rasp of Javert’s beard against his face, the softness of his lips, the line of his neatly trimmed beard or the sensation of soapy suds sliding over his smooth, firm limbs.

Nineteen years Valjean had spent chained side by side with men, afforded no privacy—and yet he had never known another person as intimately as he knew Javert.

He watched as Javert’s lips slightly parted, his eyes moving beneath his lids. Javert was close to waking up now; Valjean should be beneath the covers to let him wake the way he preferred, with Valjean’s mouth hot and wet around his cock. Instead, Valjean watched him for another minute, aching dully in a way he couldn’t even explain to himself before he finally moved into place, sliding beneath the covers one final time.

In the semi-darkness, all he could hear was the echo of his own heartbeat. It was warm, the air thick with the scent of Javert’s skin. Reverently, Valjean pressed his mouth to Javert’s thigh, the confused ache inside him dimming as he allowed the sensations to wash over him.

There was pleasure in serving Javert. Javert was never more beautiful than when he was asleep, allowing Valjean to sink the sensory pleasure of kissing his warm skin, breathing in the scent of his desire, seeing him utterly bare and vulnerable.

Valjean kissed his way upwards, gently pressing his cheek against Javert’s soft cock before he turned his head to take him in. Even soft, Javert was beautiful and of a pleasing length and thickness. Valjean pressed a kiss to his shaft, inhaling his scent, then licking all the way down to the crown of his cock. He took him into his mouth, soft as he was, sucking on his foreskin, then nudged it back so he could circle the glans with his tongue. 

Javert made a sleepy, appreciative sound and Valjean sucked him into his mouth once more, enjoying Javert’s slowly rise towards wakefulness as his cock hardened on Valjean’s tongue.

He could feel the moment when Javert fully woke—his thighs tensed against Valjean for a heartbeat, his body shifting a little. Valjean chose that moment to swallow him down his throat, Javert’s cock filling him fully until his nose was buried in the nest of wiry hair at its base, the warm musk of Javert’s need filling his senses as Javert moaned, low and appreciative.

A moment later, his hand was in Valjean’s hair, curving against his skull. The sensation was familiar and welcome as Valjean concentrated on the weight of Javert on his tongue, the stretch of him in his throat, the mindless pleasure of giving himself over to his task and allowing his senses to be flooded by Javert’s pleasure, Javert’s scent, Javert’s taste alone.

Valjean drew back when he needed to breathe and Javert used that moment to push back the blanket. In the light of the morning sun, Javert’s cock was gleaming wet and standing to attention, his balls tight and heavy beneath. As Javert watched, Valjean bent to nuzzle his balls, lapping at them with his tongue while Javert groaned. Then he licked up Javert’s hard length, lovingly wetting him from root to crown before he closed his mouth around him once more, sucking lightly. This time, Javert’s taste was more pronounced, wetness already seeping from the tip. Valjean swallowed it hungrily, ignoring the urgent throb between his own legs.

Once more Javert’s fingers tangled in his hair. Valjean looked up obediently, meeting Javert’s eyes with his mouth stretched wide around his cock. It had made him flush once; there was still shame in it, but it was a distant, barely noticeable ache, his senses too overwhelmed by the reality of Javert’s desire to pay it any attention.

Javert’s hand came down to touch his cheek, then trace his swollen, stretched lips. “That is a sight I’m going to miss,” he said hoarsely. “What about you? Are you going to miss my cock?”

Valjean closed his eyes at the sudden sting in his chest. Instead, he sucked harder, giving Javert what he wanted: the sight of Valjean hungrily swallowing his cock, sinking down on it until he could feel it slide into his throat, his own need throbbing in time with Javert’s arousal.

Javert laughed softly even as his hips bucked upwards, fucking Valjean’s throat as he groaned again. Then he grabbed hold of Valjean’s hair, using it to tug his head off his cock, saliva dripping from Valjean’s lips.

No doubt it was a sight that pleased Javert as well. This was how low he’d brought Valjean: from respectable Madeleine sitting in his office, looking at Javert across his desk, to Jean Valjean naked in his bed, face wet with his own spit as he swallowed Javert’s cock.

Something about that thought hurt even now, although he’d had months to get used to it. Could this truly be all he was to Javert, after everything he’d surrendered?

Javert tugged him upward, grasping hold of his face, his thumb sliding over Valjean’s wet bottom lip.

“Such a mouth...” he murmured.

Javert’s eyes were glazed, and for a moment Valjean couldn’t believe that he was right. Javert wanted this—for more reasons than just to humiliate him. 

Then Javert smiled, his fingers relaxing their hold on Valjean’s hair. “Last time, Valjean. Where do you want it—in your mouth or your arse?”

Javert’s hand dropped down to his cock, stroking it lazily, and Valjean felt his gaze drawn towards it. Javert was hard and wet. A wave of despair rose in Valjean at the way his stomach tightened with almost instinctive need at the sight. No, it hadn’t taken Javert much work at all to turn him into this—a man who was only too happy to partake in his own degradation.

Then Javert’s fingers tangled in his hair again, tugging gently before they slid lower, cupping his nape. As much as the confused knot of feelings in Valjean’s chest made him ache, there was also still the hunger—a familiar companion now, and one easier to surrender to than the shame that would consume him soon enough once Javert had gone.

Valjean swallowed, then straightened, watching as Javert’s fingers trailed over his own cock without shame, displaying it to Valjean who couldn’t help his own body responding to the sight.

He wanted it—despite all the pain and shame that had begun gnawing at him, he couldn’t help but want the rare moment of peace that could be found when Javert drove him beyond thought. And what did it matter now? In two hours Javert would be gone. Valjean would never see him again. What difference made one final surrender?

“Inside me, sir,” Valjean said, his heart thudding.

He still remembered that very first night when he’d gone to Javert’s bed—his terror, his shame, his ecstasy. It had been the first time he’d seen Javert lose control, his stern features transformed by pleasure. He wanted to see it one last time. He wanted to hold onto that truth: that despite everything, there was humanity in Javert, a well-hidden vulnerability.

“Like this. Please.” Valjean spread himself out on his back, his thighs parted and his knees raised.

Javert rolled on top of him, his body warm and heavy. The slide of his skin over his swollen cock dragged a moan from Valjean.

Javert reached out for the lamp oil and smoothed a measure over his cock. “You’ll have my seed inside you even when I’m gone. You like that thought, don’t you?”

Valjean felt heat rise to his cheeks at the reminder that even after Javert was gone, this wouldn’t be over.

It didn’t matter, he told himself desperately. Given enough time, he’d even forgotten the torment of the hulks. Those memories had paled—they hadn’t left, but they were little more than ghosts. In time, the memory of Javert’s touch would pale like that. Hard work would keep him busy, and eventually, Robert’s friendship would see him through. He’d find a place where he could live in peace—a farm where he would work day and night, until he was so tired that he’d sleep deeply, safe from those ghosts of the past.

“Maybe I should leave you something to remember me by. Now open up for me.”

His face still hot, Valjean reached down to grasp his buttocks, spreading himself open for Javert. It was almost impossible to hold Javert’s gaze, even though Javert’s eyes were warm and amused. When the tip of Javert’s cock brush against his hole, Valjean focused on relaxing his body, willingly opening himself to the penetration. Then Javert pressed inside.

Valjean heard himself moan as the head of Javert’s cock slid in, the stretch deeply pleasurable now. There was more to come, and suddenly he found himself aching for it: the friction, the pressure, the heat of Javert’s cock, the vulnerability of being so utterly open—the pleasure that always followed a surrender to Javert’s domination.

“Please,” he gasped, his hands sliding up to curve around Javert’s buttocks instead as he tried to pull Javert closer. “Please, sir...”

Then Javert’s hips came forward. His cock sank deep into Valjean’s body with one single stroke, the pressure almost unbearable at this angle. With every thrust, Valjean felt the stimulation like white-hot heat. As his body trembled beneath Javert with his knees pressed back against his chest, Javert made him open up, using him with slow, elegant strokes that made Valjean scramble helplessly at his skin, his cock squeezed between their bodies.

He could feel Javert deep inside him, solid and hot. The sensation made him melt. All he wanted was for it to go on forever: Javert’s slow, thorough possession of him, the unbearable pleasure, his body forced to open, again and again, until he seemed made of liquid heat and all he could feel, all he could hear and smell and see was Javert above him, Javert around him, Javert inside him...

His release hit him with sudden force. He dug his fingers into Javert’s buttocks as he arched beneath him, feeling Javert’s thrusts speed up—and then Javert, too, groaned in satisfaction, heat spreading inside Valjean as Javert spilled himself.

For a moment everything was silent, Javert warm and heavy atop him, Valjean’s mind utterly quiet—at peace.

It couldn’t last. When Javert finally roused himself, Valjean thought he saw a shadow of regret on his face. Then Javert stretched and rolled off him, resplendent even after release, his cock soft between his legs now but every fiber of the elegant body aware of the authority he wielded.

He was beautiful, Valjean thought helplessly. Whatever else he was, whatever else had passed between them in these rooms—there was that fact, too: Javert was beautiful. Javert was human. Javert had slept in his arms, vulnerable and at ease.

He couldn’t hate him. Whatever else Valjean might feel—he could never go back to hating him, as he’d once hated in the chains of the hulks.

Javert had found lodgings in Paris not too far from the Rue de Jérusalem. The room was small, situated on the fourth floor, but it was clean and the rent affordable on the salary of an inspector of the prefecture. There was an added bonus: Rivette had a room on the floor above him, and the portress was well used to the hours policemen kept.

All in all, it was as auspicious a start in Paris as he could have hoped for. Nevertheless, Javert allowed himself a moment of slight regret as he surveyed his new home.

His room held a bed, a small table, a desk, a wardrobe and two shelves for his books. In Montreuil, the entire apartment situated above the station-house had been at his disposal, furnished by Madeleine’s money and sized for a man with a family. It would take a while until Javert would be able to afford similar lodgings here. In Paris, it would surely take the salary of the chief inspector of the prefecture.

The days passed quickly at first. There was much to do and much to learn. Many of Chief Inspector Gisquet’s agents were not happy about Javert’s transfer. It was rare that such a short stint in a provincial town lead to a move to the prefecture—at least for a man like Javert with no connections.

Javert ignored the way the men would fall silent when he entered a room and the fact that Rivette had remained the only man to invite him to take their meals together in the wine-shop nearby. This was the way it had always been, and Javert had been under no illusions that it would be different in Paris.

Within a month, he’d arrested a notorious band of criminals who’d set up shop near the Salpêtrière, and Gisquet, who’d assigned Javert that case thinking no doubt to see him fail, begrudgingly praised him for his work in public.

This had two results. Several of the men who had done their best to avoid Javert’s company so far became even more blatant in their disapproval of his success. Javert kept an eye on only two of them: silver-haired Martel, who’d been here longer than Gisquet, and Poulin, younger than Javert but just as eager for advancement, who’d ingratiated himself with both Gisquet and Martel. The rest only followed where they led and were of no concern to him.

A second, more pleasing result was that the remaining agents began to try and involve Javert in their conversations. Although Javert had little interest in their tales of mewling brats or pretty grisettes, it made his work easier to no longer depend solely on Rivette to supply him with information.

Within two months, Javert had achieved a second coup: the arrest of a man who’d murdered the owner of a gambling-house in the Palais-Royal and hidden his loot in a churchyard.

Within three months, Javert had achieved a higher rate of arrests than any other agent of the prefecture, and Rivette, cheeks flushed from the Beaune wine the inn-keeper’s daughter had readily supplied, had leaned forward, emboldened by the wine, and clasped his hand, declaring that he wouldn’t be surprised to see Javert take over Gisquet’s desk within a year.

It was a pleasing thought. It had always been, since that very first moment when Javert had entered the prefecture and found himself humiliated in front of men who had laughed at him as soon as he left the room. He’d have their respect yet—just as he’d had the respect of Jean Valjean, who’d once dared to roll his eyes at him in the guise of Madeleine.

It was late by the time he and Rivette returned to their lodgings. Their portress was already asleep but had left them some bread and cheese in the room where they took their meals with the other lodgers, on those days their duties allowed them to return in time.

The food they’d been served in the wine-shop had been plentiful, but Javert had been drinking enough of the wine to make the idea of cheese and a crust of white bread appealing. Moreover, Rivette seemed clearly disinclined to bid him good night—not that Javert could blame him.

The room Rivette rented was smaller than Javert’s. Although he had a stove to warm him and their portress, who was very fond of him, had given him an old armchair too threadbare to keep in the dining room, Javert could not fault him for preferring to end the evening down here, with food and conversation.

“What about that town you left?” Rivette asked. “Everything going well there? Do you regret leaving? It has to be difficult to start all over again...”

In Montreuil, Javert had called the shots. Here in Paris he was taking orders from Chief Inspector Gisquet.

Javert couldn’t deny that it grated, especially since it was only too obvious that the way Gisquet ran the prefecture could use several improvements. One could hardly blame the public for failing to realize the importance of policing the city when the agents of police looked like ruffians themselves.

Gisquet might not mind working in a room where men sat in idleness and slouched against walls, but if Javert had his way, the duty-room would find itself transformed. There would be no idleness under his command, no slovenliness—no agents looking like cutthroats unless in disguise.

“I’d never planned to stay in Montreuil for more than a few years. Paris is different, of course, but it suits me. I think I’ll do well here.” Javert allowed himself a small smile when he thought of the success he’d already had.

And why shouldn’t he dream of the chief inspector’s position? Gisquet’s former favorites would do their utmost to keep that from happening, of course. Still, the jeweler’s case had aroused the interest of the papers, who had mentioned Javert’s name in approval of his diligence. Furthermore, among the gambling-house’s stolen cache of money, which Javert had recovered, there had been jewels belonging to a man of influence who’d opted to remain nameless, as far as the papers were concerned, but who had expressed the greatest approval and gratefulness for Javert’s work in a letter addressed not to the chief inspector, but to the prefect of police himself.

Javert wasn’t a fool. To rise as high as he’d done had been difficult. The post of chief inspector of the prefecture should be impossible for a man of his background. And yet, despite everything that stood against him, he’d already laid a foundation. The prefect had known Javert’s name thanks to the Madeleine case. Now, a second arrest with just as high a profile had followed, which had won him the gratitude of a man of influence to boot.

Gisquet’s lapdogs might gnash their teeth, but if they wanted to take him on, they’d have to deliver work just as outstanding as Javert’s own, and Javert knew with utmost certainty that no other man in the prefecture was capable of that. Not even Rivette, as much as he appreciated the man for his honesty and devotion to his work.

Rivette would never find the success Javert had. He lacked Javert’s drive; Rivette was happy taking orders and doing his work well. And perhaps that was no wonder—Javert doubted that Gisquet had ever looked at Rivette the way he’d looked at Javert when he’d traveled to Paris that first time to denounce Madeleine. Rivette had not spent his childhood with that choice stark before his eyes at every moment—to climb to higher ground or drown where he was.

Either way, it was no matter. Given the men Javert had to work with, Rivette would do.

“Oh, you do very well indeed.” Rivette smiled at him. “It’s been nothing but a string of spectacular cases for you. I’d ask you how you do it, but—”

“There’s no secret to it,” Javert said with a hint of impatience. “You just have to put in the work. That’s all.”

“Never a day off for you,” Rivette said, half in jest, half in admiration.

There was something to the way the light hit Rivette’s eyes—or perhaps it was merely the wine that had made them go dark and soft in a way that was vaguely unsettling.

Javert studied him curiously for a moment before he realized with sudden shock why that look was so familiar. Valjean had looked at him like that. Valjean’s eyes had gone dark and soft, just like Rivette’s had.

Javert could see it even now: Valjean on his knees, his body gleaming in the light of the candles, his powerful backside reddened by Javert’s own hand. He’d yield himself up like that time after time, once Javert had found out just how to push him. That was what Valjean’s surrender had looked like.

Javert had to drag himself away from the memories to study Rivette, momentarily confused. The memories had woken something else in him: a familiar hunger that he hadn’t felt in a while, his body throbbing between his legs, his trousers starting to feel tight. He allowed himself to think of what he’d done to Jean Valjean and then tried to imagine Rivette in his place.

The image wasn’t unpleasant. Rivette didn’t have the build of Valjean, but he would look well enough on his knees, bent forward, Javert’s belt draped across his back, white buttocks awaiting chastisement. Even if he didn’t have the generous, firm curves of Valjean’s backside, the thought of leaving red marks on him was intriguing enough.

Rivette’s mouth was intriguing too. Would his mustache be soft if Javert kissed him? Javert had little experience in how such things were usually negotiated, but he did not think that Rivette would be averse to it. Not with the way Rivette was gazing at him now, all warm and unguarded. Javert felt himself itching to reach out and touch his lips, to draw his finger along Rivette’s mustache, curious if Rivette would allow him to slide his fingers into his mouth like Valjean had.

For a moment, the urge was almost impossible to resist.

Javert watched as his hand rose and came forward, fingertips tracing over Rivette’s cheek. Rivette’s skin was warm and soft—

He pulled himself away, ignoring the way Rivette’s eyes had gone wide and dark in response.

“It’s late. I should sleep. And so should you, if you want any chance of unraveling the secrets of my success.”

Rivette’s eyes were still wide, his lips slightly parted, as if he hadn’t heard what Javert had said. A moment later, they shuttered and a hectic flush heated his cheeks.

“Of course,” Rivette said. “Goodnight, Javert.”

He sounded perfectly calm, but Javert could tell that something was up from the way Rivette couldn’t quite meet his eyes.

Disgust at his touch?

No—disappointment. Javert was certain of it. He’d never let himself think much about such things before Montreuil, but now that he knew what was possible...

“Goodnight, Rivette.”

Rivette would thank him for it one day.

It was one thing to make a convict bend to authority—but Rivette wasn’t a convict. Rivette was a good man, loyal, hard-working and honest. He might have his faults, but Javert refused to use an honest man like that. Even if Rivette might have wanted it.

Soon enough, Javert would find himself in the position of Rivette’s direct superior. He couldn’t allow this to stand between them. Javert would need someone he could depend upon, and for all that Rivette lacked Javert’s own drive, he was at least dependable, which was more than could be said about any other agent. He’d need Rivette able to look him in the eye. That was more important than the sort of fleeting release Javert had found in toying with Valjean.

Rivette had the opportunity to lead a good life, to be a part of society. Valjean had long since forfeited all those rights. With Valjean, it had been different.

Even so, it was hard to fall asleep that night.

Once, Javert woke up, the room dimly lit by the light of the moon. There was a familiar, warm presence next to him, and when he rolled over, Rivette’s eyes opened, soft and questioning, as they’d been earlier.

Rivette’s lips had parted slightly, his breath had quickened, and he looked at Javert in the moonlight with a hunger Javert knew all too well.

Rivette was hard. Javert could feel him, hot and firm against his own cock. He grabbed Rivette’s shoulders, ground himself deliberately against him, and Rivette’s head fell back and he gasped—

But no, it wasn’t Rivette at all.

Javert knew this body well, better than any other man. It was Jean Valjean beneath him, naked, powerful muscles tense and trembling as Javert held him down. Valjean’s cock was hard, but he wouldn’t come until Javert let him, and Javert wouldn’t until—

He woke to the sensation of wetness cooling on his stomach, pleasure rapidly fleeing. Javert was still so lost in his dream that he shifted, slinging an arm across the bed—but the space next to him was cold and empty, even though he could still smell the scent of Valjean’s sweat and feel the heat of his skin against his own.

Javert slumped back onto his pillow, breathing heavily, then covered his eyes with his hands.

It didn’t help. He could still see Valjean exactly as he’d looked the day Javert had left Montreuil, his mouth swollen from his kisses, the strong body relaxed in his arms, Valjean’s eyes pained and full of reproach.

Javert clenched his teeth and hit the bed, frustrated that the man was haunting him even now when Javert knew him safely in the hands of the law. Then he rose and washed himself, grimacing at the coldness of the water, before he returned to bed.

This time, sleep was even harder to find.

Valjean woke, ate, did his work alongside the other servants, and slept. Day after day progressed in such a way, life in Montreuil continuing as if nothing had changed.

One inspector had left; another had arrived. The new chief of police was a man twenty years Javert’s senior, with a wife who’d taken one look at Fantine before making certain that it was Marie, Fasquel’s wife, ten years older than Fantine and marked by the harsh life she and her husband had led, who assisted her with the household chores in the evening.

The new inspector in turn did not care how Valjean spent his sparse free time. The work they were assigned was long and hard, but as long as it was done without protest, they were not mistreated. They were fed, clothed and had a roof over their heads; Valjean knew that he was lucky and that he should be grateful.

Everything had worked out for the best at last. He no longer had to serve Javert, Fantine was safe from mistreatment and there was enough time now for Fantine’s lessons to progress quickly. Even Caillot, who knew how to read, would join in sometimes these days. And while Valjean thought it was likely Caillot wanted to hone his skills for further crimes, it was just as likely that he might try to find honest work after his indenture was over. There was no harm, after all, in teaching a man to read the Bible.

Valjean should have been relieved. A part of him was.

Another part of him still woke with the first light of the morning, hot and aching, turning in his narrow bed to press himself against a warm body that wasn’t there.

It was an agony Valjean had never known before. In his adolescence he had woken every now and then from half-remembered dreams, but that had long since passed. In any case, he couldn’t remember much of those years, and in the miserable little room he’d shared with his family there wouldn’t have been space to linger on such dreams.

Yet Javert seemed to have awoken something that could not be lulled back to sleep no matter how hard Valjean tried. Prayer did not help. Ignoring it merely meant that he was late for breakfast and that Fantine would give him questioning looks by the time his wretched arousal had abated enough that he felt comfortable leaving his bed.

This morning, so embarrassed he felt himself flushing to the tips of his ears, he had waited until Caillot and Fasquel had left their beds and joined the women for breakfast. Then he’d hastily wrapped a hand around himself, wringing out a miserable release that had left him unsated and ashamed, but at least in a state where he could dress and join the others.

Did Javert suffer the same problems? Valjean doubted it. Javert had been so pleased when he’d left. He’d achieved his life-long dream; he’d taken another step on a ladder that had led him far away from the hulks of Toulon.

Far away from convicts like Valjean.

Valjean bent his head at the thought, staring down at the round scar in his palm. It was a Sunday—a day he had once looked forward to. Even an indentured servant had the right to time of their own on a Sunday, and when Javert hadn’t found other uses for him, he’d always spent an hour or two with Fantine and her letters. Now, without Javert, they had the entire day at their disposal, once they were done with the chores they had no time for during the week.

Valjean had washed his clothes early on while the citizens of Montreuil went to Mass. Now, with his shirts and trousers hung up to dry in the branches of a tree on the banks of the Canche, Valjean listened to the church bells, thinking of the man who had set him on this path many years ago. These thoughts always brought shame with them; Valjean could barely bear to think of the way he had left the bishop, who had saved not only his life, but also the light in Valjean’s soul that had nearly been smothered in the darkness of the hulks.

“I knew you’d be hiding somewhere out here,” a familiar voice said in amusement.

When he found up, he found Fantine standing before him, holding a basket with her own clothes. Embarrassed, Valjean became suddenly aware of his own state of undress. He was still wearing his trousers, but both of his shirts were hanging from the branch above him, baring his scarred back.

He hastily pulled down a shirt that had mostly dried. Fantine watched but didn’t say anything, and he was grateful for it. He doubted that she’d be scandalized by the sight of a man laboring without a shirt after the past year, but while she knew about his past in the hulks, it was quite another thing to feel the eyes of a friend on the scars on his back.

“I want to write another letter to Cosette today,” she said instead. “Will you look it over for me?”

“Of course,” he said. “And we can read together, if you’d like.”

Fantine sat down on the grass beside him, and after a moment, Valjean sat as well.

“I’d like that. It’s getting much easier now that you have more time to read with me.”

Still embarrassed, Valjean remained silent, but that didn’t deter her.

“I bet Javert regrets leaving, now that he no longer has someone to do all of his work for him. He was working you day and night. Marie isn’t happy about picking up your duties now, of course, but—”

She shrugged, her expression saying what can you do. They both knew that the inspector and his wife had every right to give the town’s servants further tasks.

“And it’s not like she has much to complain about. Another two hours every evening of serving their dinner, washing their floors, mending her dresses, and then Marie comes back. He never sent you back. How many hours did he make you work for him? No, she can’t complain now that it falls on her for once.”

Valjean swallowed. “He never sent you back either,” he said softly.

He’d never asked her, not directly—and at first, he’d been sick with fury and shame, thinking that Javert made use of her the way he’d made use of Valjean. But he didn’t think Javert had. As time passed, he began to realize that Javert looked at him in a way he had never looked at Fantine. The pleasure Javert received from bending Valjean to his will was something very different.

Not that Javert hadn’t enjoyed fucking him. He’d been very direct about that. Still, what Javert had enjoyed the most wasn’t just having a warm hole to use—it was having reduced Jean Valjean to that state.

And now that he’d had his pleasure, Javert had gone, leaving Valjean behind used and broken, full of feelings that made no sense and which nevertheless ached every time he tried to pick at them.

Did Javert even know how much Valjean hurt?

“I hated those days,” Fantine said with a scowl. “Cutting his bread and ladling his soup and brushing his coat and cleaning his floor, all with him sitting there watching me with that expression on his face—more than once I was close to just dumping the soup over his head. It would have been worth it just to see his face.”

Valjean stiffened in surprise, although the mere thought of Javert dripping soup was enough to wrest a surprised laugh from him.

That, in turn, set Fantine off, and for a moment, neither of them able to catch their breath, they sat beneath the tree by the side of the river, laughing helplessly until there were tears in their eyes.

Fantine was the first who managed to stop. She raised a hand to wipe at her eyes with the back of her hand, then nudged Valjean with her shoulder.

“But I take it that wasn’t all you did for him?” she said quietly.

Valjean froze, the sudden mirth turning just as quickly to sudden terror, shame flooding him at the thought that Fantine knew exactly what Javert had done to him.

Fantine didn’t press him for an answer. She sat silently next to him, gazing out at the slowly flowing river.

Then, eventually, she said, “When Félix left, it was as if the world had ended. I had never imagined—you see, I loved him. I truly did. And he’d assured me of his love and adoration, every single day. He was a poet. The words he spoke were so beautiful. I thought that no one had ever been loved the way that I was loved. And then he left. He didn’t even tell me to my face. He left a letter, he and his friends, telling us that everything was over and that they were returning home. I was left behind as if I’d been nothing more than a part of his student life—like the books he no longer needed, the clothes he no longer wanted, the rooms that would be rented to someone new. I truly did love him. But I was nothing to him. Cosette and I...we were nothing.”

Valjean swallowed, clenching his branded hand tightly. Then he raised his head to look at Fantine, who was still gazing out at the water.

“I’m sorry,” he said.

She turned to look at him at last. There was a faint smile on her face. “It still hurts when I think of it. But I don’t think of it very often now. There are other things to think about. My work. My friends. My lessons, and the future Cosette and I will have once I’m free of this.”

Valjean was grateful for the change in their conversation. “You’ve made it through the winter,” he said. “Not much longer now for you. In the summer you’ll be reunited with Cosette.”

“And you?” she asked softly. “What will you do?”

Once Fantine had finished her indenture, Valjean would be free as well. Not in the eyes of the law—but in the eyes of his own conscience. He would be able to run, if he wanted. He’d been on the run before, and although it was true that everyone in the area knew the story of Madeleine and the convict Jean Valjean, there were ways of disguising himself.

Still, there was also the help Robert had offered. If Valjean accepted it, he might be able to lead a quiet, peaceful life somewhere on a small farm. In time, people might forget his past. He knew it was an offer he should take. But for so long now, his life had consisted of following the whims of Javert...

“I don’t know,” he finally said, then laughed helplessly. “This is what I’ve been waiting for. For Javert to leave, for you to finish your indenture, for Robert to be able to do whatever he’s been working on all this time... But I don’t know. I don’t know what I want to do.”

What he wanted most was to follow the old instinct—to run, to be free, to leave the horror of captivity behind no matter what with no regard for the future. It had been all he could do in the hulks, when they’d beaten all humanity out of him. But he wasn’t that man anymore. This time, if he wanted to run, he needed a plan.

This time, with everything he’d hoped to achieve in Montreuil ending in such misery, he had none. What was there left to do for a man like him?

“It’s only spring,” Fantine said. “Wait until summer. Everything will be different then. I promise.”

Valjean looked down at his hands again, the scar the coin had left bright in the light of the spring sun. The air felt fresh, the day full of promise. Flowers were in bloom, birds were singing, the sky stretching endlessly above them, and the road before them held a promise that would once have reassured him, even if he couldn’t walk it yet.

But despite all that had changed for the better, he was still aching in a way that did not make sense. Javert had never pretended to love him, which was how Fantine had been hurt. Javert had broken no promises, committed no betrayal. Javert had merely done what Valjean had always known he would.

And still he hurt, in a raw, helpless way he couldn’t seem to fix.

After Javert’s departure, Valjean had kept being assigned to duty in the station-house’s small stable—perhaps because it was an arrangement that had worked well enough during the past year, or perhaps because Carrel, the new inspector, preferred to keep the most dangerous of the indentured servants where his agents could keep an eye on him.

To Valjean, it had felt like a stroke of luck. It was work he enjoyed, and which kept him out of the eye of the people who had once known him as the town’s mayor. The horses did not judge him—and they were free with their affection, especially for the man who fed them every day.

Today, Valjean had been unable to enjoy his quiet hours in the stable. As he brushed Doré with slow strokes, watching the dust dance in the sunlight that filled the air, his heart grew heavy again.

Doré had been a faithful friend to him when Valjean had first purchased the gelding. The finest horse in the department, his golden coat drawing the eye wherever Valjean went, it had been a strange acquisition for a man like him who preferred to avoid all attention. It had taken Robert to make him purchase the horse. He’d pointed out that the town had certain expectations of its new mayor—and he’d drawn Valjean’s attention to the other man at the auction who’d been interested in purchasing the stunning Spanish gelding, a man from Arras known for driving his horses too hard.

The beautiful horse would not last longer in that man’s stable than a year or two, Robert had told him, knowing what Valjean’s reaction would be. An hour later, Valjean had found himself riding home on a horse a man like him had no right to possess.

“Now it’s truly time to say goodbye for good.” Valjean stroked the gelding’s soft nose. “I’m sorry how this turned out. If things had gone differently... You deserve someone who appreciates you.”

Doré nuzzled his shoulder in affection. Valjean wrapped an arm around him and stood with his head against Doré’s neck for a minute, enjoying the silence of the stable and Doré’s warmth.

Then he drew in a deep breath and stepped back.

Bureaucracy moved slowly in certain matters, but with the arrival of the new inspector, it had at last been concluded that the former mayor’s horse, which had been kept in the station-house stable all this time, was to be sold—the money going not to Valjean, but to the state, of course.

It was Valjean himself who had been tasked with bringing Doré into the small courtyard between the station-house and the stable, where the prospective buyers had gathered. Several of the men Valjean saw appeared to have arrived simply for the entertainment and the gossip—even if Doré would bring less than at the auction in Arras where Valjean had purchased him, he would still be too dear for most of the men waiting with the new inspector.

Valjean paid the men no attention until he saw that Mayor Regnier had also come—and that Robert was standing next to him, showing not the smallest sign of friendship as he gazed coldly at Valjean.

“A proud beast,” the mayor said, who had been tasked with the sale.

Valjean would not be surprised if he had also found a way to let some of the proceedings flow into his own coffers.

“I would buy him myself, if I had any use for a saddle horse. Go on, let us see him move.”

The brusque familiarity of the address would have once made Valjean flinch, especially as it came from a man who used to greet him respectfully every day, but so much time had passed that these small humiliations no longer wounded, they only bruised.

Valjean tightened his grip on the reins. Then he began to run, allowing Doré to show off his finely muscled conformation in a fast trot. The gelding carried his head high, intelligent ears curiously moving back and forth as he followed eagerly.

The first to bed was one of Regnier’s friends—a mere twenty francs said half in jest. They all knew that the magnificent horse was worth at least twenty times as much. Others chimed in, bidding in the certainty that someone else would outbid them. At last the bidding began in earnest between two men—the only serious bidders, and the only men Valjean thought had a true desire to own Doré.

“Two hundred francs,” said Maniez, the stern-faced mayor of Arras, who seemed to have traveled to Montreuil just for this occasion.

Once, he too had greeted Valjean with respect, his smile serious but warm, shaking Valjean’s hand as an equal. Now his gaze was cold when it came to rest on Valjean, and Valjean hastily averted his eyes. 

The other bidder was Master Scaufflaire, who no doubt had hopes of selling the gelding on with profit.

“Two hundred and ten,” he said.

The mayor of Arras immediately raised the amount to two hundred and twenty.

At seven hundred, Master Scaufflaire shrugged his shoulders. “He’s yours.”

Valjean sighed voicelessly and turned, pressing his hand against Doré’s neck in a silent goodbye. The memory of Javert’s departure rose again in his mind and he ached anew. How easy it had been for Javert to leave him behind. He must have felt more pain over leaving Noiraude…

“One thousand,” a new voice called out all of a sudden.

Valjean froze, his eyes still on Doré’s pale mane. He knew who it was before he had fully turned around. He knew the voice well.

Robert.

“Eleven hundred,” Maniez said, and a new bidding war commenced while Valjean watched quietly, not quite certain what Robert was playing at.

Robert had a horse—he had no need for another. And it wouldn’t do to make an enemy of the mayor of Arras when Robert was scheming for the mayoral sash himself...

“Fifteen hundred francs,” Maniez said, gazing coolly at Robert while the men around them began muttering in admiration.

In truth, Doré had been worth twice that amount when Valjean had bought him—but even so, it was an outrageous sum for a small town like Montreuil. No horse had ever been sold for so high a price here.

“Two thousand,” Robert said firmly, and this time muttering turned into gasps of surprise and delight.

Now Robert truly had given them something to gossip about for years.

Valjean stared, quiet and uneasy, as the mayor of Arras regretfully shook his head. A moment later Robert came forward, his face hectically flushed. For a moment, Valjean feared that Maniez would brush him off—but then they shook hands, Robert clasping Maniez’s shoulder, and the sound of their laughter carried all the way to Valjean.

Tiredly, Valjean felt his shoulders relax. Whatever it was Robert was playing at, it seemed that he’d had learned at least enough of such public posturing to make certain that the mayor wouldn’t pose a problem on his own path to mayoralty. Not that such a thing was in Maniez’s power. Still, the mayor of Arras was an influential man in the area. If he were set against Robert, there were many of Montreuil’s notables who would be susceptible to a whisper from him.

“Bring him back into the stable and rub him down.”

Valjean tensed at the sudden command; he hadn’t seen the inspector approach. He swallowed his shock just as he swallowed his shame at being addressed in such a way right here in front of the man who’d once applauded his appointment as mayor.

“Of course, sir,” Valjean said quietly, and then proceeded to make use of his time in the stable to truly say goodbye to Doré.

Walking past Noiraude’s empty stall caused another stab in his heart. A mere two weeks into the new inspector’s reign, she had been sold on. Inspector Carrel preferred to use a cabriolet if travel was needed, and had deemed her too expensive a horse for a small town’s station-house in any case.

He hadn’t been wrong. When Valjean had been appointed mayor, he’d been so afraid of being seen for who he was that he’d been more generous than he should have been when it came to the needs of the police. Javert had never failed to point out the irony of enjoying the comforts purchased with Valjean’s own money while he had Valjean on his knees before him, polishing his boots—but the new inspector was of a more practical nature.

Noiraude was a fine horse, more suited to an officer of the garrison than a mere inspector, and that was where she had gone. The amount she had sold for had been used to purchase another horse to draw the inspector’s cabriolet, the rest added to the station-house budget.

Now Doré would leave as well, and although Valjean cared for all the animals in his care with equal consideration, these two he had spent the most time with. For a man who had no friends in this town but Fantine and Robert, it hurt to lose their familiar presence. The horses, at least, had never cared about his past.

When the door to the stable was pushed wide open, sudden light fell in. Valjean hastily stepped aside, lowering his eyes as the mayor walked past him with Robert still by his side. Neither of them spared Valjean a single glance.

Valjean paid no attention to their conversation in turn. Silently, he watched as Robert loosened the knot with which he’d tied Doré. Then Robert took hold of the reins, and just like that the golden gelding was led past Valjean, towards the door and a new life—leaving Valjean behind, just as he’d been left by Javert before.

Valjean knew that he was being unfair. Robert was his friend, and a good man who had never mistreated the animals he owned. Doré would have a good life in Robert’s stable. Valjean couldn’t have hoped for a better owner for his gelding.

Even so, the raw wound inside Valjean kept aching, the way it had ached ever since Javert had left.

Valjean closed his eyes and wrapped his hands around the bars of Doré’s stall, gripping them so tightly that his fingers ached. If Javert had been here, he would have taken one look at him and ordered him up into his apartment to beat his moodiness out of him. Right now, Valjean would be grateful for it. He’d rather have the pain of Javert’s cane or riding crop than the constant, dull ache inside his chest that didn’t cease to eat at him no matter what he did.

At last, Valjean straightened with a bitter laugh. Perhaps it truly was for the best that Javert had left. How pleased he would have been had he heard Valjean give voice to such a thing!

Then Valjean’s gaze fell on a strange spot of white that looked utterly out of place in Doré’s manger.

Frowning, Valjean stepped closer, his puzzlement increasing when he found that it was a small piece of folded paper. He carefully took hold of it, then opened it. On the paper, a single line was written. The sight of it made his heart ache anew.


I bought him for you.


***

By the time summer had arrived in full force, and with it the added workload of the harvest season, Valjean had thought he’d be well past memories of Javert’s demands keeping him from sleep. Unfortunately, it seemed that even cutting hay from sunrise to sunset was no deterrent for his stubborn body and the dreams from which Valjean woke like a man half-drowned, remembering only the heat of Javert’s skin and the seductiveness of sinking deep into his own surrender.

Robert had kept his distance as well, although he, at least, had good reasons for it. Mayor Regnier had now begun to talk openly about the need to move to Paris in the coming months, and Robert was making certain to be seen by his side, smiling and supportive, while Valjean’s factory thrived under his ownership.

Soon enough, it would be Robert’s name put forward to the king. Already Robert was remembered mostly for his factory, his mills and the support of mayor Regnier, as well as his well-known contempt for Jean Valjean, who had once tricked him as he had tricked all the inhabitants of Montreuil.

It made Valjean smile, sometimes, to see Robert do so well for himself. Robert had never put himself forward in those years when Valjean first settled in this town. Robert had been enthusiastic and helpful, but had shied away from assuming greater responsibilities than his own business.

But perhaps this change shouldn’t have surprised Valjean. Robert had never wanted to be the center of attention; he had only stretched out his hands for political power when it became necessary to help a friend.

Perhaps with him as mayor Montreuil would at last truly do well—a mayor who would care for the poorest, with no secrets of the past to ruin him.

“You’re brooding again,” Fantine said, smiling at Valjean. “And on this day of all days! Come now, I demand a smile. I shan’t leave without.”

Valjean swallowed, then turned to face her.

She was dressed in a clean dress of blue linen, a blue cap covering her hair, a fabric-wrapped bundle holding all her remaining possessions resting on the ground by her side. Poorer than she’d been when she’d come to Montreuil and asked him for work—but her eyes were alight with hope and elation at seeing her daughter again at last. The sight of her happiness brought a smile to Valjean’s own lips.

“There. That’s better,” she said, pressing his hands. “In a few days, I will have my Cosette with me again. Just think of that! Then we will go to Paris, and Sister Simplice has promised me that I might have work there in the convent—or else, she will write me a letter of recommendation. Do you not think I will make a proper housekeeper for an old scholar somewhere?”

Laughing, she twirled around for him, a few strands of chestnut hair escaping from beneath her cap. It was an entrancing sight—she was so young still, so carefree after all that had happened to her. Had he ever been that happy?

“If she finds you work in the convent, take it,” he counseled. “Cosette will get a good education there.”

“If they will take me.” Her smile turned wry. “Sister Simplice thinks very well of me, but the truth remains—”

“The truth is that you are a good woman,” he said firmly. “Sister Simplice has seen the sacrifices you’ve made for your daughter. She knows you, better than anyone else.”

She tilted her head at him and gave him a thoughtful look. “I am not the only one who has made sacrifices.”

“But I was never a good man,” he told her. “That’s the difference. I can only atone for past sins. You—you deserve to be happy. You and Cosette.”

She kept watching him for a moment, then lightly shook her head at him with another small smile. “You won’t remain here for long. Even if you wanted it—Robert wouldn’t allow it, and I trust him more than I trust you when it concerns your well-being. He’ll write to me. You must write to me, too. I will send you my address once I find a place in Paris.”

“Write to me from Montfermeil,” he said. “Let me know that all has gone well with Cosette.”

He didn’t trust the innkeepers. They might try and demand even more money, although the inspector had sent a terse letter to Montfermeil together with the final payment, informing them that the child would be collected by her mother now that the arrangement with them had come to an end.

“You worry too much,” she said, still smiling. “But I will write. Of course I’ll write! I’ll tell you everything Cosette tells me. And I’ll tell her everything you’ve done for the two of us.”

Valjean shook his head, embarrassed by the thought. “Just tell me that everything is well with you. That will be enough.”

Javert was where he had always wanted to be. All of Paris was his to give order to, and he had proceeded to make it fear the sound of his boots on cobblestone. They all knew his name, the thieves and the whores and the denizens of illegal gambling-houses, and there was many a tongue behind the bars of La Force and Saint-Lazare that cursed his name.

And still Javert was not satisfied.

He had thought that Paris would sate the hunger inside him. From earliest childhood he had hungered—not for food, but for respect. Now he had it, together with the promise of so much more, and all the same the satisfaction of snapping the shackles shut around a thief’s wrists had turned to ash in his mouth.

During the day, Javert did his work, as dutiful as ever—perhaps even more dutiful, because he knew that all that stood between him and Gisquet’s desk was another sensational case of public interest. At night…

At night Javert tried to find sleep without giving in to temptation, calling up memories of Jean Valjean on his knees, his eyes stubborn and his mouth red. The memories came all too easily, even now. He only needed to close his eyes to see Jean Valjean in his bed, naked and wary and allowing him to touch wherever he pleased, Jean Valjean bound and aroused and worked open around his fingers…

If Javert had thought that the city would burn Jean Valjean out of his blood the same way he’d burned the guards’ vocabulary and the manners of the hulks out of himself, he soon learned that he’d been mistaken. Jean Valjean rarely left his mind. Months had passed, and still Javert woke in the morning expecting a warm body next to him, a worshipful mouth taking care of his needs. And when Javert returned home in the evenings, he still found himself surprised to see the room empty, no former convict kneeling in a corner to gaze at him with a martyr’s quiet suffering.

Summer had arrived with bright sunshine, the parks of Paris full of honest citizens and thieves and prostitutes alike. Even Javert, who rarely had reason to think of anything that was not of immediate concern to his mission, found himself pausing now and then, pleased by the heat and the crowds of the city in some instinctive way, although Paris was far from the azure of the Mediterranean Sea.

Javert was busier than ever before, and more successful, too, so that back in the duty-room at the prefecture, Martel and Poulin exchanged alarmed glances. Javert had ceased paying them much attention once their little intrigues failed. The agents of the Prefecture could see which way the wind was blowing when Gisquet gave Javert more cases, more important work, and Javert without fail produced the highest number of arrests during any given month.

Why should not a man like Javert run the prefecture one day? Surely the prefect would be foolish to appoint some lesser man when it was known that Javert worked twice as hard and was twice as successful as any other. Even a man of Javert’s background with no friends in higher places, no understanding of the political pressures weighing on the prefect, could be a useful instrument. Javert’s arrests, published in the papers, reflected well on the prefect. Every thief behind bars, every murderer sent to the hulks gave the prefect’s agents more legitimacy.

It was a good summer, the first summer Javert found himself so close to the realization of his dream that he could almost taste it: the respect, the fine clothes, the good food and wine, all the markers that divided a man like him from the riffraff of the hulks.

He should have been satisfied.

But even now, there was something nagging at the back of his mind, an uncertainty, a hunger he’d thought sated, and yet...

“Nasty fellow,” Rivette whispered. “Quick with his fists.”

Javert made an impatient gesture with his head. He didn’t need Rivette to caution him. He knew just as well the sort of man they were hunting.

Not a thief, this one—more dangerous. A thief plots, thinks, prepares, then acts. A thief is a creature driven by opportunity, by intellect, weighing possibility against the reality of discovery, arrest, ruin.

The man they were hunting was a beast, a murderer—not the cutthroat who kills without qualms, slashing a throat calmly for a purse full of coin, but the sort of animal infinitely more dangerous.

Javert had traced the phrenology head on his desk this morning, exploring the corresponding parts: weak lips, weak character; the absence of moral strength shown in a retreating chin. The beast’s vices were there to see for the accomplished hunter.

An inborn cruelty that couldn’t be stilled. A love for liquor. A temper roused to madness by the smallest imagined slight, an animal fury and brutality that knew no reason.

Five deaths, Javert thought. Five deaths so far that they knew of, all in the span of a month: a lover, two prostitutes, a man killed in the sort of wine-shop that catered to the lowest of the low—and then, a few days ago, the man’s landlady, which had finally given them the fresh trail they needed.

They’ve traced him to this hovel with damp, drafty rooms where a man who had killed or stolen or run from the state could rent a room for a handful of coin without being asked any questions. Their quarry had tried to lay low for a few days—but it hadn’t taken more than a day until he’d started to head out to the wine-shops again. Javert’s agents had been keeping an eye on likely locales near to where his old landlady had been found dead in her small kitchen, a puddle of blood beneath her head and the month’s rents gone. Last night, they’d found him at last—already drunk and making a racket, although the other men involved in the fight had wisely chosen to leave before more deaths were added to his tally.

Javert had two agents on the street, guarding the entrance, and two other men at the back of the house to raise an alarm if he tried to get out that way. A prison carriage with bars in front of the windows was waiting around a corner.

Two men were stationed before their target’s door, both armed—and across the hallway, hidden in this little alcove, he and Rivette had taken up position, although Javert itched to knock down the door himself and close the irons around the man’s wrists. There’d be a satisfaction in that. There always was.

Once this was over, Javert would sleep well tonight.

But he had to be patient. He had to be prepared.

Better to remain here, where he had an eye on both the door and the staircase, no matter how much he wanted to be in the thick of things. It wasn’t enough anymore to work himself twice as hard, after all. If he wanted to rise further, he needed to prove that the men under his command would also provide excellent results—that he was just as capable of commanding men.

There was a thump coming from across the hallway. Their quarry had risen.

Next to him, Rivette stiffened. Javert ignored him. Rivette would do as he was told; he was reliable like that. Everything now hinged on the actions of the men stationed by the door.

Another thump, then a slurred word—a curse, perhaps, followed by the sound of something crashing to the floor.

Rivette turned to look at him, but Javert ignored him. Everyone had their orders.

Any moment now...

The door burst open with a crash. His agents rushed into the room—out of sight of Javert and Rivette, who now rushed forward in turn to take up position by the door, aiming their guns into the room.

Men in a drunken stupor were dangerous. And by all reports, this man was extraordinarily strong. A convict from the hulks—and that thought still made Javert’s lips twitch with irony—with muscles like knotted rope, the instincts of a brutal animal, the fumes of cheap brandy addling his brain.

Moments before they reached the door, there was a shot, and then a wordless cry of pain and fury, the mindless howl of a wolf coming before the rifle of the hunter at last.

Before them, the door swung open, revealing the events that had occurred inside in just a few seconds.

Blood was spilling across the floor, forming a small puddle of crimson. Javert took in the scene without emotion, registering the most important facts within a fraction of a heartbeat: his agents alive and armed, their quarry on the floor.

It was their murderer who was bleeding. The bullet must have entered his shoulder; there was a hole in the dirty fabric, soaked with blood. The man was alive—his agents were bent over him, and then there was the satisfying, final clang of iron snapping shut. The shackles were in place, his arms bound behind his back.

His agents stepped back. The room was safe.

Javert stepped forward, guns still in his hands, and then went very still.

The man on the floor was facing away from him. His hair was shorn short. His clothes were ragged. Javert couldn’t see his face.

But he could see the strength in his body, the tension of his muscles, arms bunching as he fought in vain against the iron.

A hand seemed to clench around Javert’s heart. It was impossible. It couldn’t be. He’d seen the reports himself—and then, Jean Valjean was safely held in Montreuil, laboring in reparation for his crimes beneath the watchful eyes of the new inspector.

Javert knew he was mistaken. But for a long, heart-stopping moment, all he could see was the powerful body of Jean Valjean on his knees, familiar muscles struggling against straps of black leather, sweat-slick skin gleaming in the light—and all of that strength constrained, subservient, bound at his feet in helpless surrender until Javert’s blood thrummed with the overwhelming awareness of his own power, a harsh, sharp hunger that could only be sated by pushing Valjean further and further, and seeing him surrender even to that...

Breathing heavily, Javert tore himself away from the sudden vision. Rivette had already come forward, weapon still pointed at the man on the ground, to check his shackles himself. No one had realized that anything was amiss.

No one had seen what Javert had seen. No one had found in the curve of broad shoulders and strong neck a familiarity that made them want to rush forward and grab the shorn hair, pull back the head of the subdued man to bare his face and claim his mouth in a harsh kiss—

Javert forced himself to exhale, pushing those memories back into the past where they belonged. His steps were measured and slow when he came forward. Rivette was still kneeling by their captive’s side, one hand on the shackles, one knee on the man’s shoulder to pin him to the ground. The man was howling now, in a drunken rage of pain, his shoulder still bleeding.

Javert stopped in front of him, then knelt. He grabbed a fistful of hair and pulled up his head.

The man’s eyes were bloodshot, unseeing, blinded by drink and impotent fury. His nose had been broken several times in his past. His eyes were deep-set, his brows heavy, his face splotchy, pale skin reddened by years of drink.

Javert smiled and dropped his head, then stood.

“Good,” he said curtly.

It wasn’t Jean Valjean, of course. How could he have believed it, even for a moment?

It was the man they’d hunted since the first body had appeared. Javert’s plan had worked perfectly. The arrest had been made, all of his agents were uninjured, and the carriage that would bring the man to La Force was waiting below.

Another step taken forward on the long, hard road that had led Javert out of the hulks. Another triumph, Rivette would say this evening—and perhaps Javert would allow himself the indulgence of sharing a meal with Rivette, or a bottle of wine after their dinner.

He’d sleep well tonight, the specter of Jean Valjean banished to where it belonged. He’d left Valjean behind like he’d left the hulks behind, after all. That chapter in his life had been closed. Montreuil was the past; all he had to think about was the future, the work that awaited him in the prefecture. Jean Valjean would never again kneel at his feet, bound and helpless, and it was good that way.

That same morning, when Javert returned to the duty-room after they’d delivered their captive to the jail, Gisquet was already waiting for him, holding a letter. Rivette was eager to speak of their arrest, but Gisquet held up a tired hand, cutting him off as he stared at Javert.

“A letter came,” Gisquet said. “From Montreuil. It seems your old friend Jean Valjean has escaped.”

Fifty-five leagues to Montfermeil. Fifty-five leagues, which Valjean had traveled on foot, on a peddler’s cart, in a diligence, and once more on foot when he left the diligence in Gagny, close to Montfermeil.

He’d run from Montreuil as he’d run back in the hulks, without much thought or plan. There’d been no other choice.

He had only one friend in Montreuil: Robert, who would have helped him. Robert would have understood Valjean’s fears when the days passed and no letter from Fantine arrived—but Robert had been gone a week now on business of his own, and Valjean, whose mind painted elaborate scenarios of what might have happened to Fantine, hadn’t been able to wait until Robert returned.

Now here he was, passing through the forest of Chelles that surrounded Montfermeil in workingman’s clothes, with no passport in his pocket, and with the alarm raised in Montreuil days ago. He’d taken care to disguise himself, but how long would such a disguise hold?

Still, unlike his former escapes, they wouldn’t know where to search for him. Robert was the only man who would know where he’d gone and why—but Robert wasn’t home, and would have wanted to help Valjean instead if he was.

Javert would have known. Javert had always been suspicious of Fantine and the time Valjean spent with her. With Javert in Montreuil, Valjean would have been dragged back in chains already, or, failing that, would find Javert waiting for him in the inn where Fantine had hoped to find her daughter.

But Javert was gone as well. No other man knew Valjean as well as Javert did, and Javert had given him up, believing that Valjean could be contained by lesser men.

Valjean smiled without humor. He didn’t doubt that it would please Javert to learn that no man but him was capable of holding Valjean. Still, it had been Javert’s choice to leave Valjean behind in the hands of another chief of police, and this was what came of that.

The forest was quiet. Valjean counted on the fact that no one here would know him, or know to watch for an escaped convict and former mayor. If something had happened, if an arrival had been anticipated, then it would have been Fantine’s, not Valjean’s.

His stomach clenched with fear once more as he imagined her walking through this forest, alone and defenseless in the darkness.

But no, she’d saved up enough of the meager coin from her year of forced service to the town that she’d been able to travel in the diligence—or perhaps Robert had given her some money for the journey, though Fantine was wary of the charity of men. In either case, Valjean knew what her plans had been. Even if she’d walked part of the way, he knew that she’d had enough money to take the diligence from Montfermeil to Paris, sparing Cosette the long and tiring walk.

And maybe that was what she had done. Maybe she’d been so overwhelmed by being reunited with her daughter that she’d wept tears of joy all night, forgetting about her promise to Valjean as they boarded the carriage. Perhaps there was already a letter waiting for him in Montreuil, written in Fantine’s careful script, apologizing and telling him that she and Cosette had made it to the convent where Sister Simplice now lived.

Maybe he’d ventured everything for nothing.

And that after everything Robert had done for him...

Valjean swallowed the guilt that rose inside him and clenched the hand that still bore the brand of the silver coin. There were older debts he carried with him. Deeper wounds he’d dealt. He’d have to make certain that all was well with Fantine and her daughter. She wouldn’t have been in this position without him. There’d never been a choice.

Before him, the forest finally seemed to come to an end. He’d asked Fantine about Montfermeil, back when he’d tried to distract her from her yearning for her daughter. He knew about the inn and the family that ran it, the two happy little girls, the tree with the swing.

He also knew about the letters they had sent, asking for more money until Fantine had been drowning in debt, ending up in court. He doubted that the innkeepers were as good as Fantine hoped they’d be—but they had taken the coin Montreuil had paid for the upkeep of the child, after he’d made his own deal with Javert. Cosette hadn’t been abandoned alone on the streets, sent to a hospice. She’d have been fed and kept warm in winter, and she was young. She’d soon forget her time in the inn, Fantine would see to it.

Valjean drew his brim down as he left the forest. He looked like any laborer, although the people of Montfermeil would immediately know him to be a stranger. Still, the diligence stopped in Montfermeil. They would be used to travelers. He could take a room in the inn and stay for the night, listening to what went on in the tap-room, and perhaps he’d find the proprietors to be good people at heart after all.

Valjean walked slowly as he approached the first houses. These were no more than small hovels, the windows dark. He could see no one he could have tried to talk to. As Valjean continued to follow the path, he soon found himself approaching a street of cobblestone. The houses lining it were larger, several of them with fine balconies, guarded by dogs who barked suspiciously when he went past.

It wasn’t until Valjean had walked on this street for a few minutes that he finally found someone who stared at him in suspicious curiosity. The man who gave him a cautious nod had the looks of a laborer—a road-mender, perhaps. His clothes were dusty from the road.

“Is there a cook-shop in this town?” Valjean inquired. “Or an inn with rooms to rent?”

The man looked him up and down. “The Sergeant of Waterloo,” he said. “That should suit you. Might sleep in the stable for a few sous.”

“I’m looking for my sister,” Valjean said. That was the story he had come up with on his way through the forest. He had to find out what had happened to Fantine—he had to take the chance and hope that no one in Montreuil would think to look for him here. “Have you seen a woman? Twenty years younger than me, with a small child. I was to meet her a few days ago. She might have taken the diligence to Paris when I didn’t arrive in time.”

“What does she look like?”

“Slender. Brown hair,” Valjean said. “Twenty years old. Prettier than me.”

He tried to smile at his joke, but the man just stared at him, the calculating look on his face making it all too obvious what he thought of such a story—a man like Valjean having a young, pretty sister.

“Didn’t see her,” he said after a moment. “The diligence leaves in front of the post-office. Ask around there tomorrow in the morning.”

The inn bordered a square of grass. At the center, a tall tree grew, a swing hanging from it. The summer sun was falling in through the leaves, painting Valjean’s hand in spots of light and shadow as he raised it to shield his eyes.

It was early; the inn was quiet. A few tables stood outside, but no one was sitting at them. In the warm light of the sun, the small town of Montfermeil looked inviting. It wouldn’t have been such a hardship for Cosette to be parted from her mother for so long, surely, when she’d had long, warm summer days playing on that swing with the innkeepers’ children.

Still, Valjean was wary. It had become instinct to expect only mistreatment wherever he went—and there had been the greed of the innkeepers and their excessive demands…

When he went inside, he found the inn just as quiet. A pair of travelers was sitting at a table by a window, a second table held by what seemed to be the inn’s regulars—four men in workingmen’s clothes. Their conversation fell quiet as he entered. They eyed him as if they were wondering whether he could be fleeced at cards.

Before they could attempt to invite him to their table, Valjean sat down at a table in a corner, close enough that he’d be able to overhear the men’s conversation.

“Rosalie!” one of them shouted, banging his tankard on the table. “Customers!”

What next emerged from a door that had to lead into the kitchen was not the proprietor, but a small child, face and hands smeared with dirt, his face curious. After a moment, he was pulled back by an impatient hand and shoved back into the kitchen.

“Get out of my way, brat!” the woman who’d emerged from behind him said. Then her gaze fell on Valjean and she straightened, cleaning her hands on her apron. Her gaze was calculating. When she approached, there was nothing sincere about the smile on her face, her gaze lingering on the dust of his clothes.

“Walked here, did you?” she said. “What can I do for you? Beer? Wine? Bread?”

“Bread and cheese.” Valjean forced himself to smile at her as if he were truly just a tired traveler. “And wine.”

“Bread and cheese,” she repeated, the derisive twist of her lips telling him what she thought of that sort of order, and the sort of customer he was. “Anything else?”

“Is there a room?”

That got her attention.

“We’re fully booked,” she said brazenly, despite the quiet of the inn. “You can sleep in the stable for ten sous.”

“I have money.” Valjean carefully counted out forty sous in five-centime pieces.

The gleam of silver got her attention at last. Her smile was more pleasant when she sat down, although Valjean trusted it just as little.

“Well, if you are prepared to pay for a bed,” she said, “I do have a room left you can have. A fine room it is, a soft bed, all very clean. You must be tired after your long travel?”

She was fishing for information, but Valjean had no intention of saying more than he had to.

“I am,” he said simply. “But I’m hungry too.”

She rose with another calculating laugh. “Your bread and cheese, and your wine, of course. Coming right away, monsieur.”

Her tone made it more than obvious what she thought of a traveler who didn’t want to spend more than a few sous on his dinner. It made him wonder, more than ever, what sort of welcome Fantine had found here.

Still, what could they have said? Cosette’s board had been paid for. Fantine was her mother. They might not have welcomed her kindly, but what could they have done? Fantine had her papers with her—a passport written by the new inspector of Montreuil for her travel from Montreuil-sur-Mer to Montfermeil and then to Paris. She’d paid her debts through her indenture. There was nothing anyone could do to her now.

The room they’d given Valjean was a small, dark chamber right beneath the roof. To pay forty sous for a garret seemed outrageous, but Valjean didn’t complain when one of her daughters showed him up the stairs. The child couldn’t have been more than six years old—around the age of Cosette.

Valjean put down his knapsack on the bed. He smiled at her and then produced a sou she eagerly snatched out of his hand.

“Thank you for your assistance,” he said gravely. “Your mamma must be very grateful for all your help. Do you have any other siblings to help with all the work?”

“Azelma and I help now,” she said with a proud look. “Mamma says Gavroche is too lazy to be trusted. But he has to make himself useful now and do Cosette’s sweeping.”

Cosette. So she had been here, and she was gone. Had he been wrong to worry then? Had Fantine merely forgotten to write to him?

“Three siblings? You must be very lucky to have so many playmates.” He deposited another sou in her outstretched hand, and she eyed the coin with glee.

“Two.” She gave him an outraged look, then counted the names off on her fingers. “Just me and Azelma and Gavroche.”

“So who’s Cosette? Your friend?”

“She’s a toad,” she said, her eyes gleaming as she looked at him eagerly. “A good-for-nothing gutter rat.”

She rattled the words off with childish eagerness—words whose meaning she surely wasn’t entirely aware of, but which she must have overheard often enough in this house to expect praise for the quick delivery.

Valjean’s heart sank. He had been right to worry then. Still—if Cosette was gone, it meant that Fantine had found her and taken her away from these people. Perhaps she’d been so eager to escape that she hadn’t thought to stop and write to him. Perhaps she’d been too upset to put her anger into words.

Nevertheless, the worry that had been gnawing at him eased a little.

He’d been right to come. Something in this inn wasn’t right. Even if it meant destroying Robert’s careful plans, he couldn’t have lived with himself if he’d allowed Robert to buy him a comfortable life while Fantine was left alone with the misery Valjean had caused.

He needed to see that Fantine was well. Tomorrow, he’d write to Robert and then take the diligence to Paris. Sister Simplice would have news for him. Once he knew Fantine and Cosette were safe, he’d return for the money buried in the forest.

He’d have to lead another life using a false name, always afraid that someone might recognize him—but surely that was preferable to tainting Robert with his friendship. Look at the damage he’d done to Fantine! Robert was a good man. He didn’t deserve to suffer as all those Valjean had tried to help did.

Valjean spent the evening in the inn’s tap-room. The inn had filled; men and women had gathered at the tables, loud and boisterous with drink, and Valjean yearned for the quietness of his room as he idly picked at the meat on his plate. Two men had appeared and tried to draw him into a game of cards; Valjean had played along, losing sou by sou until he’d made a show of begrudgingly handing over his very last twenty five centimes. He’d hoped that from listening to the conversation, he might pick up some further clues as to where Fantine had gone, but no one had mentioned her name.

Once or twice, a drunken voice shouted for Cosette to bring more beer or mop up a puddle of wine, but instead of Fantine’s daughter, it was the boy who was sent to do the work.

When the men with the cards had given up and left him in search of prey with fuller pockets, the proprietor of the inn finally came sidling up to him.

“Leaving us tomorrow, I hear,” he said, gazing at Valjean with a genial smile and sharp eyes. “Where are you headed?”

Now was the time to ask after Fantine. Fantine had been here and left with Cosette, forgetting to write; everything pointed that way. The Thénardiers didn’t know who Valjean was. They’d received their money from the inspector of Montreuil and had no idea that a man like Jean Valjean even existed. If he claimed to be Fantine’s brother, why would they distrust him?

Still, something kept Valjean quiet.

Perhaps it was the calculating way with which the Thénardiers had watched him all evening, or the way their children had been accustomed to thinking of Cosette as nothing but a source of cheap labor. Perhaps it was the way Thénardier now paid attention to him, after his wife had measured and disregarded him in the morning when Valjean had counted out his sparse coin. But most of all, there was an old instinct that whispered to him and bade him to keep quiet.

That instinct said to keep still, to watch and observe as he had once watched and observed in the hulks, learning the ways of a hostile land in which no creature, guard or convict, was on his side, and in which a man could only survive by keeping his own counsel. So Valjean watched, and he waited, and he observed the way Thénardier’s eyes gleamed with greed and a furious resentment when Valjean refused to give up any of his secrets.

Later, in the pitiful light of his garret, Valjean labored over his letter to Robert. In the morning, he would send it after having coffee down in the tap-room. He’d ask after Fantine then. No matter how much the Thénardiers had awoken old instincts in him, there could be no harm in it, not with a diligence waiting to take him away. And what reason would they have to suspect him? At most, they would try to fleece him the way the card players had tried.

Valjean folded up his letter—claiming to come from a business acquaintance of Robert, so its arrival would not cause any trouble—and then snuffed out his lamp.

It was hot in the small garret. Sweltering air was trapped beneath the roof, weighing down on him until he felt sweat rolling down his body in the darkness.

Quietly, he rose at last to move towards the window, hoping for a breeze. When he had finally managed to open the latch, the air that came in was just as stuffy. Beneath the window, he now saw, the roof of the stable stretched away, which had been baking in the sun all day and now gave off the heat it had stored.

Valjean exhaled tiredly, gripping the windowsill as he bent his head. He was exhausted. As much as he had once struggled against captivity, he had forgotten that the precarious freedom of flight was just as exhausting, every sound, every man and woman to be met with suspicion.

After a while, the wind picked up slightly. The hint of a breeze caressed his body, bringing a moment of relief from the heat. Incongruously, he thought of Javert’s hands on his hips and his breath against his nape, yearning, just for a moment, for that sensation of letting go and allowing himself to fall, ceasing his struggle until surrender rose up around him and swallowed him and let him rest.

That small moment saved him when all of a sudden, the door opened and three figures cloaked in shadow rushed into the room.

The post-chaise rattled as they took a curve. Impatiently, Javert gazed out of the window. Before him, narrow houses crouched. Montfermeil looked just like any other small town in the north—a sight he’d thought left behind when he gave up Montreuil-sur-Mer for the prefecture.

It seemed ironic that the arrest of Jean Valjean should have led him to Paris, only for Jean Valjean’s escape to lead him back to the provinces.

He needn’t have come, Javert knew that. Gisquet had left the decision up to him, and there was nothing Montreuil could have done had Javert refused to come and look into the matter himself. Even now a part of Javert was still surprised that Montreuil’s new inspector should have invited a rival to poach on his territory.

On arrival in Montreuil, Javert thought that he’d solved that mystery: the man who’d taken over his post seemed unsuited to the task of arresting a man as wily as Jean Valjean, and Mayor Regnier, or so the rumor went, would relocate to Paris before autumn arrived.

Whatever Regnier’s plans in Paris were, it seemed the mayor had no intention of allowing a new scandal to ruin his chances and reputation there. Regnier wanted Valjean arrested, no matter what it took, and Inspector Carrel seemed to have agreed, wisely, that it would be advisable to recall the man who’d known Valjean longest and who’d unmasked him in the first place.

It had taken Javert only one day of questioning to see where Valjean had gone. He wondered if Valjean had planned it all along: wait until Fantine was free and then run to join her. No doubt the plan was for them to settle in Paris under a new name.

It did seem strange that they should have waited until Fantine’s indenture had finished. What was in it for her, when she had everything to lose? She had served her time, her debts were paid. She was free to look for new work.

To risk the chance she’d been given for a convict who’d never lose his propensity for lies and subterfuge...

Perhaps Javert been mistaken all along. Perhaps Valjean had lied to him and he’d fallen for the woman’s guiles after all.

It was the only thing that made sense, and still the theory left Javert uneasy. No matter what reason dictated, instinct told him that he was wrong. Valjean had many faults, but he wasn’t led astray by petticoats. Javert had disproved that theory to his own satisfaction.

Still, the connection between these two events was unmistakable. Fantine had finished her indenture and left Montreuil with a small bundle of belongings and a handful of coin, provisioned with a passport by the mayor and a letter by the inspector to the innkeepers who’d taken care of her daughter.

And then, a few days later, Valjean had vanished, just like that.

Fury rose in Javert at the thought—fury at Jean Valjean who had disobeyed authority once more, and fury at the inspector who had allowed this to happen. Valjean had never dared to try anything like it while Javert had kept order in Montreuil, after all, so surely the fault here rested with the new inspector.

Regardless, Valjean had run just after Fantine had left. The trail led Javert right to Montfermeil. If he wasn’t mistaken, this was where Valjean had gone to meet Fantine.

It was not a reasonable choice—any other convict would have gone to Paris, a city large enough to swallow a hundred convicts and hide them from the eyes of the law. In a town like Montfermeil, every stranger was a curiosity. But then, reason had never been Valjean’s forte.

If Valjean had been here, Javert would pick up his trail. There was no doubt about that.

***

The inn seemed respectable from the outside: a large building, facing a square, with space for carriages to draw up. Javert had taken the post-chaise, briefly missing the fine steed he’d had at his disposal in Montreuil—Noiraude would have been glad for the opportunity to stretch her legs and impress him with her speed and stamina.

Still, spending a few hours in a carriage had given him time to go over the details again, and so, instead of entering the inn first, he paid visits to the Thénardiers’ neighbors. He’d wondered whether it was advisable—in these small communities, word spread swiftly, and often it was better to make use of the element of surprise.

As he found out quickly, the innkeepers weren’t well-liked by their neighbors. It wasn’t merely the noise and the coarseness of their clientele, or so he heard, but the stinginess of the innkeepers, various cases of missing chickens which the Thénardiers had blamed on a fox and which an old woman keeping a small garden bordering the inn blamed on the Thénardier children, as well as a complaint about illegal gambling taking place in the inn at times.

“You will see to that, won’t you, Inspector?” the stooped, thin man with a nervously twitching mustache asked Javert. “My cousin lost all his wages at the faro table more than once. We’ve forbidden him from going back, but you know how it is. His father demanded the police look into it, but every time they tell us there’s no gambling happening in the inn. You would almost believe they are—”

Here the man had fallen silent, looking even more nervous than before, no doubt afraid Javert would accuse him of insinuating that the police of Montfermeil was in league with Thénardier.

Javert felt little loyalty to the agents of police operating in this small town, although it was unfortunate that he wouldn’t be able to trust in backup being available to him, if what the man claimed was true.

Still, backup might not be necessary. The innkeepers might be ruffians, but unless they made common cause with Valjean, Javert had no interest in them.

It was close to noon by the time Javert entered the inn. A red-haired woman gave him a suspicious look, then ignored him, leaning against a table to chat to two guests. Another couple sat at a different table; they had the look of travelers.

Javert walked straight towards a chair by a window, pulling off his gloves to place them on the table as he stretched out his legs. After a moment, the woman straightened with an unfriendly look at him.

“What do you want?” she asked.

Javert couldn’t quite hold back a small smile. No wonder they had to resort to stealing their neighbors’ poultry. They couldn’t turn much of a profit if this was how they welcomed customers.

“Information,” he said, holding her gaze dispassionately.

She sniffed. “I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

“Information about a man.”

Javert steepled his fingers, gazing at the woman whose lips now twisted with distaste before she straightened, hands on her hips.

“And who do you think you are, barging in on us like that? We’re busy people here. Some of us have to work for a living. If you want to take up my time, that’ll cost you.”

Javert kept gazing at her. “You won’t see a single sou from me. You’ve already seen enough money. I’m Inspector Javert of the Paris police—formerly from Montreuil-sur-Mer. Do you remember me now?”

“Oh, you’re the one who made sure that we saw no more money for keeping that brat—a mere three francs per month, and all—”

“Five francs,” Javert said. “Now you will listen and answer my questions.”

She had lost some of her certainty. Javert could see her gaze wandering around the room, settling on the guests who were watching the altercation curiously before she turned towards the stairs. “Thénardier!” she called out at last. “Thénardier!”

Her husband was much as Javert had imagined—the sort of sly fellow who would run a faro bank in the backroom, no matter that the game had been outlawed many years now.

Javert’s lips wrinkled with distaste as he recalled the grasping letters he had received, the lies about the girl intended to fleece the town of Montreuil-sur-Mer. He knew that sort of man intimately well—if this Thénardier had not yet spent time in the hulks, he would soon enough.

“The town of Montreuil-sur-Mer paid you five francs per month to keep a young girl,” Javert said coolly. “Cosette. Where is she?”

Before Thénardier could answer, Javert could make out shocked giggling coming from a backroom—the kitchen, by the smells of it.

“The toad! He wants to arrest the toad!” a young girl’s voice gasped in excitement.

Thénardier turned furiously around and shouted, “Silence!” before he turned back, bowing apologetically although his eyes were staring at Javert with a fury that seemed all too familiar. It was the fury of a thief who suspected another of having taken a larger share of the bounty. Javert had seen a hundred men like him.

“Apologies, monsieur,” Thénardier said, coming forward with an oily smile. “Children—you know how it is. They miss their little friend—Cosette was such a treasure, we—”

“Where is she?” Javert interrupted.

“Why, her mother came! Fantine, her name was. Now, we were suspicious too, monsieur, given what has befallen her. One doesn’t like to see a young child given into the hands of a woman like that—you know what I mean. But she had a letter from the inspector, a passport. We are simple people, monsieur, working hard. What could we do?”

“When?” Javert gritted his teeth. “When did Fantine collect her? Where did she go?”

“Oh, it must have been last week—what do you say, Rosalie? Four—five days ago?”

“It was a Tuesday,” she said. “I’m quite certain. She was rather unfriendly—arrogant, as if she was better than us, and that with her—well, you know.”

Thénardier’s mouth twisted as he nodded. “Paris. She wanted to go to Paris. But that’s all we can tell you, monsieur. As I said, she didn’t stay. She was only here for a few minutes really, the poor child couldn’t even say goodbye—”

“And a man?” Javert demanded impatiently. “Was there a man with her? Tall, broad-shouldered, very strong, with short, brown hair—you might have seen a round scar in his palm?”

She hesitated just for a moment before she turned to look at her husband, but that reaction told Javert all he needed to know.

Valjean. He had been here.

“Now, monsieur, we see a lot of travelers come and go in this inn,” Thénardier said. “Does he have a name, this man? I can check my books for him.”

“He might have arrived after she left,” Javert said. “He would have asked around after her and the child.”

They were still gazing at him, the wife quite obviously disturbed and trying to hide it, the husband—something about the husband disturbed Javert as well before he realized what it was. Here had been another opportunity for extortion, to demand money in exchange for the information they obviously had. And yet they were trying to pretend that nothing was amiss.

Had Valjean bought them? Had he threatened them to keep their silence?

Javert looked around the Thénardiers’ establishment once more, distaste twisting in his stomach. He knew these sort of people all too well. These were the sort of people he’d left behind in the hulks. These were the sort of people he arrested day after day in Paris, trying to bring order to the city.

Valjean wouldn’t make common cause with them. As strange as it seemed to even think such a thing, Javert knew without a doubt that it was true.

Whatever it was about Jean Valjean—and he had no doubt that Valjean would bend the law whenever he felt like it, believing that he somehow stood above it, was unbound by it—Valjean was not entirely lawless.

The twisted thing about Valjean was that he believed himself beholden to a different law—which conveniently allowed him to run from his indenture and disregard authority whenever he pleased. Still, Valjean wouldn’t break the law merely to enrich himself. And he might have a vile temper—and Javert wouldn’t even truly blame him for letting this rat Thénardier provoke him—but it didn’t seem Valjean’s style to threaten Thénardier into silence. If that was even possible.

A man like Thénardier would sell his own family for coin. So why then keep his silence now, with Valjean long gone?

Abruptly, Javert stood. “I will return,” he said. “I’m certain you will have the information I want by then.”

He left the inn. Outside, he paused to breathe the fresh air, eying the houses that surrounded the square. He would stay here for a while. Something was amiss in Montfermeil—something connected to Jean Valjean. Javert wouldn’t leave until he had what he wanted.

The ground beneath him was cold, but even so Valjean had finally managed to fall into a fitful sleep. When he woke, the sensation of his aching, bruised body was so familiar that for a moment, he was shocked to move and find himself unfettered by iron. Had the guards forgotten to chain them last night?

Then he opened his eyes and at the sight of the dismal shack he found himself in, memories came rushing back.

He’d been attacked in his room at the Sergeant of Waterloo. They’d hit him—his body still bore the bruises from their heavy cudgels. Someone had carried a knife that had cut his arm, although the wound wasn’t deep.

He’d been lucky that he’d opened the window and still stood near it. Once Valjean had managed to tear himself free from his attackers, he’d made his escape through the window, falling onto the roof of the stable and from there to the ground. He hadn’t broken any limbs; still, the fall had added further bruises.

Now here he was, in an abandoned shack near the forest, without even the sparse belongings in his knapsack—and still with no idea of what had become of Fantine.

As he straightened with a pained groan, worry rose inside him once more. He’d been right to be afraid. The Thénardiers had mistreated Cosette. Was it not possible that they’d sought to harm Fantine, just as they’d tried to harm him?

And if they had—what had become of Fantine? Could her silence mean that she was dead?

Valjean clenched his fists, then rose from his bed of moldy straw.

He refused to believe it. What would they have gained by it? Fantine only had a small handful of coins—just enough to get her and Cosette to Paris and look for work there. Surely it would be foolish to arouse suspicion by killing her right there in the inn. There was danger in that; people would notice if travelers entered but never left, especially in a place as small as Montfermeil.

Yet if that was true, what was so dangerous about Valjean that they’d dared to risk attacking him right there in his room? Had Thénardier panicked because Valjean had asked about Fantine? If the child Valjean had questioned had told her father that he’d inquired about Cosette...

Valjean’s head ached. His mouth was dry. The cut made his arm pulse dully. He’d torn a strip from his shirt to wrap it around the wound last night, and while there was a large patch of dried blood on it now, it seemed that the bleeding at least had stopped during the night.

Aching, stiff and cold, Valjean finally left his shack in the dim twilight of pre-dawn. It could be no later than five in the morning; the forest surrounding him was utterly quiet.

He tried to gather his thoughts as he walked beneath the trees, taking care to keep his distance from any path. By the time he reached a small rivulet where he could drink and wash, he hadn’t come to any new conclusions.

He was an escaped indentured servant and former convict; he could not alert the police. Fantine had no family who might inquire into her whereabouts. And Valjean only had one friend: Robert. Robert was sure to help, but Robert was traveling. And even if Robert would forgive Valjean for disrupting his plans—which Robert surely would, if only for the sake of Fantine who needed his help now more than ever—Valjean had no means of contacting him.

With sudden dismay Valjean remembered the letter he’d written to Robert. It had been left on the small desk in his room; it would be in the hands of Thénardier now. It meant that Thénardier knew that Valjean was an escaped convict who couldn’t alert the police—and that he’d come looking for Fantine.

Sick with helpless anger, Valjean squeezed his eyes shut, striking the water with his fist.

The splash of cold water revived him a little, even as he clutched his arm, his wound throbbing anew. Nevertheless, the shock of the sudden pain had torn him out of his misery. If something had happened to Fantine here—if there was some sort of ploy, if Fantine was still alive—then now was the time when Thénardier would betray himself. He’d been nearly found out—worse, he’d seen Valjean escape.

As helpless as Valjean felt right now, what would Thénardier feel? He’d want to make certain that everything was in order, that nothing would give his activities away. And if Fantine was still alive...

Thénardier himself would lead Valjean to her.

Valjean needed to keep a watch on the inn. He needed to see who came and went, who Thénardier wanted to talk to in the aftermath of his attack on Valjean. Sooner or later, Thénardier would make a mistake, and Valjean had to be there for it.

***

An hour later, with the sun fully risen, Valjean had found a spot that allowed him to watch the inn.

He was wedged into a shaded corner between a chimney and the wall of a neighboring building. He’d scrambled up onto the roof from the back; it had been early enough that no one in the house had stirred as he scaled the wall. It would be more difficult to escape attention when he wanted to leave. Still, with any luck, no one would be in the garden at the back of the house when he needed to make his escape to follow Thénardier.

Thénardier made Valjean wait. For a long time, nothing happened. Valjean’s arm still ached dully, as did his stomach. There were worse things than a missed breakfast, but if he wanted to escape notice by staying in the woods, he’d need to find food eventually.

He had some money—a few silver coins were left, sewn into the hem of his shirt and his trousers. And there was more money, of course—money hidden in the forest and out of his reach right now. He couldn’t spare the time it would take to return and retrieve it, especially when by now they had to be looking for him all over in Montreuil.

As the hours passed, the inhabitants of Montfermeil began to leave their houses. Valjean took note of them all: the women with baskets going to the market, the water-carrier making the rounds, the occasional carriage with travelers, then the post coach.

Several people left the Sergeant of Waterloo, two of them entering the post coach. The others seemed to be travelers as well; Valjean watched suspiciously as they mounted horses. He was tempted to follow them to see where they would go, but that would mean giving up his post here by the chimney. And who knew what Thénardier might do?

Finally, his patience was rewarded when a man he recognized entered the inn. It was the man whom he had encountered when he’d first arrived in Montfermeil—the man in dust-stained clothes with the look of a road-mender. Valjean had asked him if he’d seen Fantine—which the man had denied. But was it not possible that he had lied and that he’d immediately gone to tell Thénardier about the stranger who’d come asking after Fantine and her daughter?

Tense with worry, Valjean clung to his chimney. He didn’t have to wait long until the man reappeared with Thénardier by his side. He was carrying a small basket now, and as Valjean watched, got into a heated discussion with Thénardier. Valjean was too far away to make out what they talked about, but after a moment, Thénardier made a furious gesture and turned around to vanish back into the inn.

Valjean hesitated, torn between the need to keep an eye on Thénardier and his curiosity about this road-mender. It might have been mere chance that these two men had met here and talked—perhaps all the laborer had done was to buy some bread and cheese to take with him as he went to do his day’s work.

Still—surely it was too much of a chance that it was the same man he had asked about Fantine?

A moment later, Valjean’s decision was made for him when the man turned a corner, walking straight into the narrow alley along the wall above which Valjean sat in hiding behind his chimney. Valjean had a perfect view of the man—and of the way he now looked around to make certain that no one was in sight. Once he had ensured that no one could see him, he hastily moved further down the alley, then climbed the narrow wall behind which stretched the garden Valjean had crossed earlier.

Without thinking, Valjean left the safety of his chimney. Soundlessly, he moved back over the roof, keeping close to the wall. Once he’d made it to the side facing the garden he could see the man amidst the bushes that grew towards the back, forming a natural border behind which the forest began. It was the same path Valjean had taken when he had approached Montfermeil from the forest and had not wanted to be discovered.

This was too strange an event to let pass. After listening for a moment and making certain that the house was still quiet, Valjean hastily scrambled down the vines that grew up the wall. There was no sound, no shocked cry coming from the window, and so Valjean quickly followed the man, his heart pounding at how exposed he was in the garden.

Once he reached the bushes among which the man had vanished, Valjean breathed more easily. He could see the path the man must have been taken—the same path Valjean had taken in the morning, following gaps in the underbrush until he ended up sheltered by a fallen pine tree. Before him, the forest spread. There was no path here, but the undergrowth was thin, and while the trees spread their branches far ahead, blocking the light, he could see movement in front of him.

Keeping the trees between him and his quarry, Valjean began to follow the man. The forest made it easy enough, and it seemed that the man did not expect to be pursued. As soon as they’d left the garden behind, the man picked up speed, making no attempt to hide himself as Valjean did. And why would he? Had Valjean not decided to keep an eye on the inn, no one would have paid him any attention, and he would have slipped off into the forest without anyone the wiser.

They walked for half an hour. Twice, the man changed directions. Valjean was not entirely certain where they were going, for the man seemed intent on staying away from the road that lead to Lagny. At first, Valjean was afraid that someone had seen him earlier and that the man had been sent to the shack where Valjean had slept for a few hours. Fortunately, the man led him deeper into the forest instead—north they went, and further north, until the forest grew denser and the ground beneath them started to rise.

Finally, there was a rocky outcropping right in front of them. On a lonely promontory, there stood a building that might have come to ruin during the revolution; the part that was still standing had the form of a tall tower made of solid blocks of stone. Although it looked weathered and the walls had started to crumble here and there, the tower seemed sturdy enough to hide a band of robbers.

Valjean felt his heartbeat pick up as he scrambled up the steep incline after the stranger. He’d been forced to wait until the man had made it to the top of the promontory and turned around the corner of the building before he’d dared to move—it was hard going, the ground treacherous, for the cover of pine straw was slippery and easily gave way beneath his feet, causing him slide back down every now and then.

By the time Valjean had made it to the top, he was out of breath, his wounded arm aching fiercely once more from the exertion. Ignoring the pain, he pressed himself to the granite, inching forward until he’d made it to the corner around which the stranger had vanished. Valjean took a deep breath, then leaned forward to look around it—only to freeze at the sound of a gun being cocked and the familiar sensation of a cold iron muzzle pressing against his neck.

There was something amiss in Montfermeil. His questioning of the Thénardiers had told Javert as much.

After he’d consulted the books of the diligence that left for Paris from Montfermeil, it had quickly become apparent that Fantine had not booked a journey back to Paris—or indeed to any other place, although her journey from Montreuil to Montfermeil had been noted. All the same, as Javert continued his stroll through Montfermeil, he’d quickly found a woman bent over a small vegetable patch who’d eyed him with shrewd, suspicious eyes as he made his way down the alley. It seemed that she’d watched with the same suspicious attention when Fantine had made her way through Montfermeil a week ago.

“Too pretty, that one,” she said with a knowing look at Javert. “The sort that would make trouble if she stayed. She was headed straight for the Sergeant of Waterloo—it’s not my business, of course, but it doesn’t surprise me at all, with the things one hears about that place. Just last night—” Here she fell silent.

Javert knew what that silence meant and reached into his pocket. He retrieved a one-franc piece, and the gleam of silver immediately caught her eye, although she continued to beat around the bush for a while.

Finally Javert lost his patience. He thought he knew well enough what—and who—could have caused trouble in this place.

“A man arrived,” he said. “A stranger—very strong, broad-shouldered, with the looks of a dangerous man. He was looking for that woman.”

His informant quickly snatched the coin from his hand.

“Oh, you know that,” she said, her eyes gleaming with pleasure at knowing more than he did, “but you don’t know the most important thing. He took a room in the inn; my husband saw him there when he went for a drink in the evening. And then, in the middle of the night—I couldn’t sleep, so I was up and looking out of my window—there was some sort of commotion at the inn. There were guests there who remarked on it too, but that Thénardier told us that it was merely a man who’d had too much wine and fell down the stairs. But do you know what I saw that night? I saw a man running down this very alley, and he looked exactly like the man you’re describing—clad in nothing but a shirt! I was so shocked I nearly fainted. I thought a ghost had risen from its grave! But then, not a minute later, I saw Thénardier and that road-mender come running down this alley as well. Strange, isn’t it, to hunt a man through the night for the crime of falling down a stair.”

“Strange indeed,” Javert said dryly. “In which direction did he run?”

She pointed toward the left. It was not far from here to where Montfermeil ended and the forest began; it was the direction a man would take who was trying to shake off his pursuers and find a hiding place.

“What’s the name of the road-mender?”

“Boulatruelle.” She leaned towards him, continuing in an excited whisper, “A convict! And always around that inn! Thénardier claims he gives him food out of the goodness of his heart, but I tell you, Inspector, he and that road-mender, they’re cut from the same cloth.”

With a thoughtful sound, Javert turned away from the woman to look towards where the alley led. If Valjean had run into the forest, it would be difficult to find him. He’d need many men to search the place, and even then…

But then, would Valjean run? Something had happened in that inn. Something concerning Fantine, perhaps. Had Valjean arrived here only to find Fantine using her charms on the innkeeper? Had jealousy overwhelmed him?

It was the most likely explanation. Still, for some reason Javert could not believe it was true. Valjean had a temper—but knowing Valjean, it was far more likely that he’d threatened violence because he’d thought Fantine had been mistreated.

And as to that… Well, Fantine was a free woman now. It was her choice if she wanted to remain in Montfermeil rather than go to Paris. Nevertheless, if she’d wanted to set up business in Thénardier’s seedy inn, she would have had to register with the police—and that, too, Javert doubted. If she hadn’t sold herself in Montreuil, then why do so here? And even if that had been her plan, there was better money for a prostitute in Paris than in Montfermeil.

Having come to a decision, Javert turned back around to the woman. “Where can I find that road-mender?”

***

An hour later, Javert rather regretted his decision. He’d not found the road-mender—but he had found Thénardier, sneaking away from the inn with the look of a man who wanted to escape the attention of the police. Javert had followed him immediately and had found himself led on a merry chase through the forest. At first he’d thought that perhaps Thénardier had been so panicked by Javert’s sudden appearance that he’d decided to run—but surely a man like Thénardier would have been smart enough to try and disguise himself, and carried some of his possessions with him.

No, Thénardier had the look of a man out to meet his fellow conspirators, and when he at last stopped at a small, ramshackle building next to an old charcoal kiln, Javert was not surprised at all to witness him being welcomed by two men who had the look of brigands preying upon lonely travelers in the forest.

What crowd had Valjean fallen in with?

Frustration rose in Javert, as well as a growing certainty that whatever was going on here, Valjean wasn’t making common cause with these men. He’d been wrong about Valjean in the hulks—but he wasn’t wrong now. Javert wasn’t deluded enough to believe Valjean’s claims that he was an honest citizen who’d been wronged by the state and Javert—but Valjean’s crimes were of an entirely different nature than whatever the crude figures before him were hatching. There were different castes of criminals, and Valjean was no longer among those who took delight in violence and would murder for a handful of silver.

“There’s an inspector from Paris,” Thénardier now said, loud enough for his words to carry to Javert, who’d circled around the shack and crouched down behind the corner. “Don’t you hear me? We have to change plans.”

“What about the other?”

“Yes, what about that brute who gave me a good wallop? You said it would be an easy job!”

“It was an easy job,” Thénardier hissed. “Only a fool would have missed a man of that size, and right by the window too! If you hadn’t let him escape—”

“I don’t remember you jumping out after him.”

“Never mind that now.” Thénardier sounded furious, and Javert, momentarily distracted by what he knew to be a mention of Valjean, strained to listen. “The inspector is what matters. I sent him scurrying off, but with that sort you never know where they reappear. If someone talked...”

“It was your plan! You said that you had everything worked out with—”

“I didn’t know Paris would send their agents after us, fool!” There was a thud, then the sound of grappling. A moment later, Thénardier spoke again, sounding out of breath. “Don’t forget that we haven’t seen any money yet. If you want to leave now, you’re welcome to do so—but you won’t see any of the profits, and if I catch you speaking a single word—”

“Who said anything about wanting to leave?” a sullen voice said. “What’s your plan?”

“The cave near the old Chastain barn. No one will think of looking for her there.”

A moment later, there was the sound of a door opening. The men must have entered the shack; Javert could no longer understand what they were saying. He kept kneeling behind the corner, leaning against the wall, his mind racing as he tried to untangle the threads of Thénardier’s plot.

The man they’d talked about, the brute they’d tried to surprise and who had escaped their attack during the night—that was Jean Valjean. Coupled with the statement of the old woman, there could be no doubt about that.

But who was the woman? Could it be Fantine? What was Thénardier’s plan—a plan that was supposed to make them money? Fantine couldn’t be in on it; the men had talked about moving her. 

Javert hadn’t quite made up his mind yet about how to proceed from here when the door opened again. Thénardier came out, followed by his cronies, and without speaking another word, they went off in different directions.

For a moment Javert remained where he was, frozen in indecision. Thénardier was clearly the main architect of this scheme—and yet, hadn’t he commanded his underlings to deal with the matter?

It was the fact that Thénardier returned into the direction they’d come from that made the decision for him. Hastily, trying to make as little noise as possible, Javert scrambled after the two ruffians instead, hoping that Thénardier would remain at the inn where he could be arrested later.

The two men meanwhile took a path that led deeper into the forest, and after several minutes left the path. Javert followed after them, making certain to always keep a few trees in between them, although it seemed the men weren’t concerned about the possibility of being followed. They talked in low voices. Javert couldn’t make out what they were saying, although their conversation kept them too busy to look back, which he appreciated.

Soon, they arrived at the bottom of a hill. Above, Javert could see the steep incline, the springy pine straw beneath his feet giving way to rock, and where the trees grew lighter, he thought he could see the shape of a building—some sort of ruin, with a tower of dark stone stretching above.

Such ruins made good hiding places for brigands, and Javert was not surprised at all to see his two brigands begin to climb the steep hill.

Javert followed, slower than before when the trees grew sparser. Finally he was forced to change his tactics and try to keep out of their view by circling around the hill, following the sound of their voices rather than his sight.

By the time he made it to the top of the hill where the crumbling building stood, he was out of breath. He could still hear the sound of their steps—louder now as they walked on stone instead of soil. Javert reached into his pocket and drew out his pistol. Slowly, silently, he circled around the building. He could still hear them—they were talking indistinctly, then there was a grinding sound as if of stone and the creaking of rusty hinges.

They were going inside. Were there more of them in here? Might Fantine be inside?

Javert stepped through a gap in the stonework and found himself in what might once have been a courtyard. Low walls of crumbling stone surrounded it on three sides; on the fourth side, the steep wall of the tower rose.

The yard was completely empty.

Javert bit back his frustration. There was a door here somewhere; he’d heard the sounds they’d made when they’d opened it. He’d find it soon enough.

Carefully, he moved closer to the wall of the tower, inspecting it for windows that would allow him a glimpse of what was going on inside.

On this side, there were none close enough to the ground that he could reach, and he began to circle around the tower, still taking care to keep in the shadows close to the walls, making as little sound as possible.

He’d made it more than halfway around before a shocking sight distracted him from the crumbling walls. While he’d kept all of his attention on the tower, hoping to find a hidden door, he’d nearly missed the patch of dirty white that gave away the presence of an unknown person.

Pressed close to the wall near the next corner, a man stood—a man trying to keep out of sight. Was it one of the two ruffians hunting for Javert? Had his arrival been seen from the tower after all?

Javert didn’t hesitate. At any moment the man might turn and see him, alerting his friends with a cry. Silently, Javert came forward, his pistol raised. There was something about the lines of the strong body before him that stirred a memory, but he furiously bit back the instinctive response.

This was no time for distractions.

He reached out to grab the man’s shoulder at the same moment as he cocked his pistol and pressed it hard against the man’s neck.

“Not a sound!” he hissed. “You’ll stay quiet if you want to live.”

Then he pulled the man around, still listening for any sound that would show that his arrival had been noted, and abruptly found himself face to face with none other than Jean Valjean.

Javert stared at him for a long moment, the thunder of his heartbeat the only sound he could hear. Valjean’s eyes were shocked and wide. His face was smudged with dirt, his shirt torn; a bloody bandage was wrapped around his arm.

But it was Jean Valjean before him, there was no doubt of that.

Valjean’s mouth had parted, but he hadn’t made a sound, just as Javert had ordered. He kept staring at Javert with the same sense of dumbfounded recognition, stunned beyond all words. Javert’s hand still gripped his shoulder, and little by little, Javert could feel the powerful muscles relax, Valjean’s shoulders sinking until instead of a hunted, dangerous animal, all that stood before him was a tired man.

“Javert,” Valjean whispered at last.

All of a sudden, fury rose in Javert once more. He gripped Valjean’s shirt harshly and pushed him against the crumbling wall.

“What the hell do you think you’re doing?” he hissed into his ear.

His handcuffs were out and closed around Valjean’s wrists before Valjean had time to react—but even when Valjean finally realized what had happened, he didn’t try to put up a fight.

Javert could feel the strength of him beneath his hands—strong muscle, hard sinew, as tense as steel and just as dangerous. Valjean’s chest was still heaving, his eyes still wide with disbelief—but even so he’d sunk back against the wall where Javert had pushed him, surrendering himself to Javert’s hold on him.

Javert drew in a deep, shocked breath as the thrill of it raced through his body, something within him shuddering to life with recognition. This was the power he’d had. This was the real power he’d once wielded—power that had seen the strong man before him surrender to anything he’d demanded of him.

Javert licked his lips, watching that same deep recognition spread in Valjean’s eyes, the awareness of it thrumming between them.

Javert clenched his jaw and forced himself to take a step back when all he wanted to do was reach out and touch the lines that surrounded Valjean’s mouth.

“What the hell are you doing here?” he repeated in a furious whisper. “Are you working for Thénardier?”

Javert. It was Javert before him.

Valjean still could barely believe it. For a moment, he forgot the danger of his situation, the man he’d followed—even the fact that he still hadn’t found Fantine and her daughter.

Somehow, some way, Javert had come all the way to Montfermeil and found him, right here in an abandoned ruin on a hill in the forest of Chelles. It was impossible—and yet Javert was right there in front of him, furious and handsome, his beard as meticulously groomed as it had always been, his face gleaming from the exertion of climbing the hill.

Finally, Javert’s words broke through the spell his utterly unexpected arrival had woven. Only now did Valjean begin to feel the weight of the iron around his wrists. He looked down briefly at the handcuffs, puzzled, then raised his eyes back to Javert.

“Have you come to find Fantine?” he asked, raising his hands plaintively. How did Javert expect him to help if his hands were bound?

“I have come for you, you fool,” Javert hissed, grabbing hold of Valjean’s ragged shirt and giving him a little shake. “I know you have no understanding of the law, for all your preaching, but is your brain truly so addled that you think you can escape indenture without punishment?”

Valjean’s mouth went dry when he understood why Javert had come. It wasn’t for Fantine—no one but him cared about the well-being of Fantine and her daughter. They’d sent Javert to retrieve him—and Javert had found him, like he always had, a hound that had lived and breathed the scent of its prey for so long that Valjean knew he’d never again be able to hide from him.

“Fantine’s in danger,” he said softly, aware of how any sound carried among the ruins. “I had to. Those inn-keepers... I think they’ve kidnapped her.”

Javert made a scoffing sound, although for all of his bluster, Valjean suddenly realized that Javert, too, had made certain to keep his voice low and to keep both of them in the shadows.

How exactly had Javert found this ruin? Had he merely followed Valjean’s trail—a trail that should have been impossible to follow in this wood? Or had he somehow stumbled across the conspiracy in Montfermeil that had led to Fantine’s disappearance?

Valjean stared at Javert. He could see the changes Paris had wrought in him—they were subtle, but they were there.

Javert had always been proud of what he’d accomplished, proud of his position in Montreuil, and Valjean, who’d come from the hulks just as he had, had never been able to deny the fact that it was indeed an accomplishment that warranted pride.

Paris had given Javert renewed confidence. Only a few months had passed, but they had had an effect. Javert seemed subtly older—sterner, firmer, with the implacable eyes of a man who passed judgment on everything before him.

But even now Valjean remembered how that stern mouth could gentle, remembered the sensation of running his fingertips along the lines of that well-groomed beard, the softness that overcame him in sleep and in pleasure.

He knew Javert—and Javert knew him. They knew each other better than anyone else had ever known them.

With a deep breath, Valjean came to a decision. Humbly, he held out his shackled hands again, meeting Javert’s eyes. “Help me, please,” he said. “I can’t save her on my own.”

Appealing to Javert’s sense of compassion had never worked, nor had reasoning with him. Still, there had been a change in Javert—all those months they had spent together hadn’t failed to leave a mark, just as Valjean in turn had been changed beneath Javert’s stern hands, and been changed before by kindness and love.

He reached out for that glimpse of hope now, allowing himself to believe that Javert was the sort of man who could see that a greater injustice was being done than just the escape of an indentured servant—and for the first time in his life, he saw Javert falter.

Javert stared at him, his breath coming just as heavily as Valjean’s. For a moment, he didn’t move.

Then he reached out for Valjean’s shackled wrists, grabbing the chain between them instead of opening the cuffs. He used the chain to pull Valjean against him so that for a moment, all Valjean could feel was Javert’s hot breath against his face, his eyes boring into his.

Valjean met Javert’s gaze, unafraid. Javert made a frustrated sound. Then Javert turned, and Valjean found himself pulled along by his shackles as Javert moved back the way he must have come, keeping close to the base of the tower to avoid detection from one of the windows above.

Javert led him around the tower without speaking. Valjean stumbled along behind him, wavering between wild hope and harrowing despair.

If Javert forced him to abandon Fantine here—he wouldn’t do it. He couldn’t do it.

Instead, after they’d halfway circled the tower, Javert led him into the ruins of what once seemed to have been a mansion connected to the tower. Impatiently, he pushed Valjean into a corner, pointing at the floor, and Valjean found himself obeying without thought, his knees hitting the stone before Javert could say a word.

Javert seated himself on a crumbled rock next to him, leaning forward once more to grab hold of Valjean’s shirt to pull him close.

“Now talk. What the hell is going on here?”

Valjean swallowed, gazing up into Javert’s eyes. Then he began to recount the events that had led him to the tower. Javert’s eyes grew thunderous when Valjean admitted his decision to run from Montreuil, although Javert didn’t interrupt him. That was new, Valjean thought, clinging to his sliver of hope that Javert would understand—that after all this time, he’d learned enough about Valjean to at least understand that.

“Fantine had been to the inn,” Valjean said. “That much was obvious. From what the children said, it was also obvious that Cosette had been mistreated despite your payments. I don’t know if Fantine grew angry at them when she found out—but something happened to her here. I’d asked around after Fantine when I first arrived, before I went into the inn. There was a man—a road-mender. He denied having seen her. But after I took a room in the Sergeant of Waterloo, he must have told Thénardier that I’d been asking questions. That same night, they came into my room. I recognized him: that road-mender, with Thénardier and a third, all holding cudgels. If it hadn’t been too hot to sleep, they might have surprised me. But I was standing by the window, and I managed to fend them off and jumped.”

“That’s your story?” Javert’s mouth had the familiar, derisive twist that said that he knew fully well that Valjean was a thief and a liar who always had new stories about people in need.

Valjean held his gaze steadily, ignoring the weight of the iron around his wrists.

“That’s my story,” he said calmly. “I ran and hid in a shack near the edge of the forest for a few hours. Once dawn arrived, I found a new hiding-place close to the inn. I thought keeping watch on Thénardier would lead me to Fantine eventually. After a few hours, the road-mender came to the inn—the same man who’d tried to attack me that night. When he left, I followed him. He went into the forest—and he led me straight to this tower. And next thing I knew, your pistol was at my neck.” Valjean smiled wryly. “How did you find me so fast?”

Javert was still watching him thoughtfully. It was strange to be so close to him once more when Valjean had believed that he’d never see him again. Javert was close enough to kiss—and even now, despite the danger he was in, Valjean couldn’t help from gazing at Javert’s face, remembering the softness of Javert’s skin against his fingertips, the roughness of his beard, and wondering if Javert, too, felt the pain of memories that had burned themselves so deeply into his skin that he’d ached with them through all the many lonely nights since.

The corners of Javert’s mouth slanted upwards, but his eyes were still watchful. “I didn’t follow you. I followed Thénardier—because I knew that was where you’d gone. Didn’t take a lot to figure out you’d go to Montfermeil when Fantine left only a few days before your escape.”

Valjean’s heart was still racing, but an inexplicable calm had overcome him. He should be terrified—he’d run and been caught. In the worst case, they’d send him back to the prison hulks—if they didn’t just sentence him to death. And the man who’d caught him was the one man who wouldn’t allow compassion to sway his decision.

There was more than Valjean’s own life at stake, after all. For the sake of Fantine and her child, he should be terrified. But he wasn’t. Having Javert next to him—even with his hands in irons—was comforting in a way he couldn’t explain even to himself. It felt as if a world spun out of control had been returned to run along familiar grooves. Everything was as it should be now.

And perhaps it wasn’t entirely wrong to feel like that. Javert seemed utterly in control of the situation. He wouldn’t be intimidated by whatever Thénardier was plotting. Surely there couldn’t be a better ally found in these woods.

Those reasons might suffice as an excuse, but Valjean knew that he’d be lying to himself. Javert’s presence had touched something deep inside him. Something ragged and aching within him had fallen still. As strange as it seemed—and it was strange, given all the reasons he had to turn and run—Javert’s presence calmed him.

“Did you hear anything in the inn?” Valjean asked at last. “Did they say anything about Fantine?”

Javert was still watching him thoughtfully. Was he weighing the chances of Valjean speaking the truth versus that of the innkeepers?

“A witness saw Fantine arrive. She thought it was curious that she never saw Fantine leave. And given what I’ve heard about those innkeepers, I find that curious, too.”

“They might hold her in this place.” Valjean felt his heart clench again when he thought of the alternatives: Fantine hurt, mistreated, or worse—dead. He half rose into a crouch, leaning forward to grab Javert’s knee in despair with his cuffed hands. “We must find her. Please.”

Javert exhaled a huff of air, looking half amused, half frustrated.

“How did I know that this was exactly how it would go with you?” He studied Valjean’s face in silence again, then briskly inclined his head. “I overheard some of their conversation. They were talking of a woman, who I assume is Fantine. Your escape and my arrival has scared them. They talked of changing their plans—of taking her somewhere else.”

“So you’ll help me?” Valjean was overcome by such a sudden wave of relief that he felt faint for a moment. “Thank you.”

“Don’t thank me just yet.” Javert was still looking down on him with that strange mix of emotions, as if he was just as unsettled by their meeting as Valjean. At last, he reached out and took hold of Valjean’s chin.

Valjean felt a tremor run through his body at the touch, but he held obediently still, allowing Javert to look him over.

“Why did I know that you’d run into trouble as soon as I left?” Javert sounded exasperated—and faintly amused. Was Valjean imagining it? A year or two ago, Javert would have been incandescent with fury if he’d caught Valjean in such a situation. “They really don’t know how to handle you. And you—rushing from one disaster to the next. You make as bad a rescuer as you make a thief.”

Stung, Valjean averted his eyes. Javert wasn’t wrong; it hurt to admit it, but he knew Javert was right. He wasn’t in the best position to help Fantine, and he’d done great damage not only to himself, but also to Robert’s plans, into which Robert had invested so much.

“There was no other way. I knew she was in danger. And no one else would help her.”

“That woman,” Javert said again with a sigh.

This time it sounded more frustrated than derisive, and Valjean for once managed to hold back his own instinctive response.

“I want to get to the bottom of this.” Javert’s lips curled at Valjean’s reaction. “Don’t get too excited. You’re still a run-away indentured servant. I’ll take you back to Montreuil, and you’ll get what’s coming to you. But first I want to know what’s going on here.”

His heart lifting with sudden hope, Valjean dared to raise his cuffed wrists once more. “I’ll be more useful to you,” he said. “And you know I won’t run. Not with Fantine in danger.”

Javert laughed softly. “Don’t take this too far, Valjean. The cuffs stay on. You’re strong enough to defend yourself, cuffs or no.”

Javert rose, his face determined, signaling that the time for conversation was over. Valjean followed, his eyes seeking out the familiar shape of the tower.

“Have you found the entrance?” Javert asked.

Valjean shook his head. “The man I followed went around the tower. I didn’t see where he went—and then you appeared.”

“There were two more men—we approached from the other side of the hill. We passed along these ruined parts of the old building,” Javert muttered. “Then they were gone. I circled around the tower looking for a door. Instead I found you.”

His smile at that final sentenced seemed almost genuine, and despite the handcuffs, Valjean felt his spirits rise.

“Shall we look for that entrance?”

“Make sure to stay in the shadows,” Javert ordered. “They might have a lookout at one of the windows.”

Despite the cuffs, it was less daunting now to approach the crumbling tower once more. Javert had taken the lead without a single word of admonishment to Valjean, expecting to be obeyed in everything he demanded. It was just as it had always been, and for once, that arrangement did not grate at all. Javert had agreed to help him find Fantine; Valjean would happily surrender himself to anything Javert demanded in turn.

Slowly, moving as quietly as possible, they circled back around the tower. Valjean hadn’t seen any opening in the base when Javert had taken him into the ruins—and the man he’d followed had turned around the corner before he’d disappeared, Valjean was certain of that. Neither of the men they’d followed could be seen or heard now, which meant that there had to be an entrance somewhere.

When they made it back to the spot where Javert had found him, Valjean found his heartbeat speed up. Javert was the first to move around the corner, his pistol at the ready while Valjean watched, afraid that someone might have been left near the entrance to look out for them.

After a moment, Javert relaxed, although he didn’t lower his pistol. He took a step forward and motioned for Valjean to follow him.

Valjean’s heart sank when he finally saw what stretched before them.

The view was much the same—the expanse of the base of the tower curving to their left, the green of the hill stretching to their right until it abruptly ended, a rocky promontory rising over the forest of Chelles below.

There was no door that he could see. When he turned to Javert with a frown, Javert shook his head and pressed his finger against his lips, then began to move forward.

They kept close to the tower, trying to escape notice from any lookout standing in a window above. Briefly, Valjean wondered if the tower was entered via a ladder that was pulled up after the men had gone inside, but he could find no imprints of a ladder in the soil.

Javert, too, was alternating his attention between the wall on their left and the ground. Valjean remained quiet; Javert would have had the same idea.

They kept going forward, slowly and carefully, until before them rose a crumbling wall. Valjean examined it carefully. Was the entrance hidden in a shady corner?

Then, with a sudden jolt, he saw that they’d come full circle. The ruined stones and walls before them were those of the destroyed mansion into which Javert had dragged him earlier to interrogate him—and there had been no openings of any sort in the wall of the tower there either.

Frustrated, Javert reached out to press his hand against the wall rising before him. He clenched his hand into a fist, then reluctantly let it drop.

“We must have missed it.”

Valjean’s mouth tightened. He nodded in agreement, giving the tower above them a worried look. “The longer it takes us, the more time they have—”

“They aren’t going to harm her,” Javert said. “If it’s Fantine—and I’m sure it is—the plan was to take her away. If we can’t find an entrance, all we have to do is wait until they emerge again.”

Valjean didn’t look convinced by his words, and Javert had to admit that there were holes in his argument. If the entrance was so well hidden that they hadn’t managed to find it so far, there might be another hidden exit. Furthermore, he didn’t know why they’d bother to kidnap Fantine in the first place. They might well be harming her.

“The windows,” Valjean then said. “If they have a ladder, that might be why we couldn’t find a door.”

Javert had come to the same conclusion but had discarded it. There would have been indentations left in the soil, and surely either of them would have heard a sound if a ladder had been lowered for the men Javert had followed. Still.

“We’ll circle the tower again. This time, we’ll keep an eye on the windows, too.”

Precious minutes passed while they slowly moved forward, making certain to remain out of sight in the shadow of the tower. Javert kept a hand on the stone as they moved, frustrated by the lack of a visible entrance, but even that examination revealed nothing but the dark stone of the tower’s walls.

The windows were no help either. Most of them were too high up; a ladder long enough to reach them would be impossible to conceal, and surely just as impossible to draw inside. A rope, perhaps—but then how had the first man to arrive fastened the rope to a window far above?

There had to be another hidden entrance. It was the only thing that made sense.

Once they’d finished their circle, ending up in front of the crumbling ruins of the former building, Javert turned to Valjean with a grim expression. “Forget about the windows. I’m sure there’s another entrance. Rats like that like to hide in dark places.”

“A tunnel,” Valjean said, turning a little to face the edge of the hill where rocks jutted out. A steep cliff fell away there, the forest of Chelles spreading perhaps a hundred meters below.

Javert shook his head, impatient. “We’ll search the ruins first. Search every nook and cranny. And be silent. They might come back out at any moment, and if they do, we can’t have them know we’re here.”

Valjean still looked like he wanted to argue, his eyes going back to the rocky outcropping of stone looking down onto the forest beneath. Still, it seemed that there was a remnant of that hard-won obedience left in him, and so he went along with Javert’s command without complaint.

After several minutes of search passed without any results, Javert straightened with an irritable sigh. He hated to let Valjean out of his sight when he’d come so far to find him. Nevertheless, it was difficult to argue with the niggling awareness that Valjean wouldn’t run, not now. Not with what was at stake.

“Go search the southern part of these ruins,” Javert said, keeping his voice low despite his frustration.

Valjean gave him a surprised look. He hesitated for a moment, as if contemplating whether to ask Javert to take off the cuffs again, and Javert waved him off with a sharp gesture.

Immediately Javert felt worse. He had to resist the urge to follow Valjean to make certain that he did as he was told. There was no time for that now—they’d have to work carefully, and quickly, or they’d lose their advantage.

A quarter of an hour later, Javert felt sweaty, dusty, and decidedly more irritable than before. The northern part of the crumbling building held nothing but weeds, dust, spiders and the occasional rat that had taken refuge amidst the dirty rocks, which was all that was left of what must once have been a large mansion.

He’d found no trapdoor, no entrance to a cellar hidden in a shadowed corner. His frustration kept growing as he thought of Thénardier, who surely shouldn’t be smart enough to hide from Javert.

When he went to see whether Valjean had been more successful, he found the southern part of the ruined building empty.

Fury rushed through Javert, immediately followed by a strange feeling of betrayal. He forced it back—Valjean was a convict who’d tried to run several times. To see him run again was no betrayal of Javert, but merely another proof of Valjean’s infuriating nature, which seemed utterly unable to tell right from wrong when such truths were inconvenient for him.

Teeth gritted, Javert strode through the building. He stopped short when in the distance, where the hill fell away, something moved. He narrowed his eyes.

Again there was movement, close to one of the large rocks that rose there. This time, Javert could see clearly—it was Jean Valjean, making a beckoning sign before melting back into the shadows behind the rock.

Of course. He should have known Jean Valjean would disobey at the first chance he had.

Annoyed both at Valjean’s disobedience and the fact that he’d trusted him to behave in the first place, Javert circled back around the ruined building to approach the rocky outcropping from a different direction, which allowed him to keep trees and bushes between him and the tower for as long as possible.

“Down here,” Valjean whispered before Javert had even had a chance to voice his displeasure. “Careful.”

When Javert moved closer towards the cliff, he saw that it wasn’t quite as sheer as it had appeared from a distance. Below the edge of the precipice, various rocks jutted forward, forming natural ledges which it was possible to descend if one took care. With one hand on the rocks, Javert silently, furiously clambered after Valjean. At last he found himself coming to a halt when the stony ledge he’d walked along ended abruptly. There was no further rock beneath him to descend onto, only the vertical cliff dropping to the forest far below.

Then there was a sound to his right. From the shadows behind one of the rocks forming the natural stair he’d descended, Valjean appeared, his hair tangled and messy, his eyes wide with excitement.

“Quiet,” he whispered. “I can hear voices.”

That was the only explanation Javert received before Valjean vanished from sight once more.

When Javert followed, intrigued now despite his anger, he saw that Valjean had discovered what appeared to be a small cave. A few steps into it showed him that it was more than that—barely large enough to allow a grown man to stand upright, it twisted and turned, a tunnel that was at first dimly lit by the light from the entrance, then descended from gloom into darkness.

“Valjean,” Javert hissed, keeping one hand on the wall as he stopped.

Several heartbeats of silence followed. Then there was the sound of steps in front of him.

“Hush,” Valjean whispered. “Not much farther. You’ll hear them very soon.”

Slowly, Javert continued to move forward, following the sounds Valjean made. A few more turns, and suddenly he could see again. Javert couldn’t make out the source of the light that had to fall in somewhere in front of them, but he could now make out vague shapes—the walls surrounding them, the figure of Valjean before him.

Valjean turned. Instead of speaking, he stepped close to Javert and lightly pressed a finger against his mouth.

Javert exhaled in anger, but caution made him keep quiet. A moment later he could hear it.

Voices. There were voices somewhere nearby, the sound no more than a soft, indistinct murmur.

This time, when he followed Valjean, he made certain to make as little noise as possible. Valjean took him around another bend, and now at last Javert could see the source of the light: a small rectangle gently illuminated in the wall to their right. Valjean led him up to it, then gestured again for him to keep quiet. Valjean must have already looked through it earlier, for he didn’t protest when Javert moved forward and pressed his face to it.

The opening was small and the angle was awkward, but Javert could see enough to realize that he was looking in on a small room—a chamber situated, perhaps, in the basement of the tower. The opening he was looking through was high up in the wall of the room. Below, he could see three men, lit by the light of a lamp. Two of them Javert immediately recognized: the men he’d followed from the charcoal burner’s hut. The third, no doubt, was the road-mender Valjean had pursued to this place.

They were talking among themselves, and after a moment, Javert could make out words.

“Where to?”

“The cave near the Chastain barn, he said.”

“Bah. Too close. What if someone sees?”

“He’s right; let’s wait until it’s dark.”

“He said as quickly as possible!”

Coarse laughter. “Who does he think he is? I’ve seen no money from Thénardier yet.”

Javert drew back a little and looked at Valjean, who nodded, then gestured back towards the hole.

Once more Javert bent forward, straining to make out their features as he listened.

“—make trouble,” one of them said. “I don’t like this. And they know the lark in the village. If someone—”

“He’s right,” the second man said. “If he wants us to bring them to the cave, it’ll have to be dark. Too many people snooping around after her for my taste.”

“Shows that he’s right though, that Thénardier,” the third says. “You’d think they’d send after her from Paris if she’s really what she claims she is?” He spat onto the floor. “I’m going to have another chat with her. See if I can’t make her talk—”

He rose, and Javert could feel Valjean stiffen in alarm. It was clear now that everything Valjean had told him had been true for once—Fantine truly seemed to have managed to get herself caught in some mischief, although Javert could not quite understand what these men thought they were doing. Had Thénardier fed them some lie about hidden riches? Surely Fantine possessed no more than those wretches below.

The man who’d spoken had already stood before one of the others pulled him back down onto the crates on which they’d been sitting.

“We have until evening,” he said. “No need to hurry. Let her think about what’ll happen to her if she doesn’t give us what we want.”

Javert drew back after a moment, once he’d made certain that the men weren’t going anywhere soon. One had brought out dice, and another had pulled two bottles of wine from a corner. It would keep them distracted for a while if they were lucky.

Valjean was worried; Javert could make that out even in the low light. Still, he merely touched Javert’s arm lightly and then directed him onward.

They didn’t retreat. Instead, Valjean continued onward through the tunnel until they’d followed enough twists and turns to leave the sparse light behind them. Trapped in darkness once more, Javert focused on the soft sound of Valjean’s breathing.

“Not much farther,” Valjean whispered.

Javert didn’t reply, but a moment later, the ground they were walking on began to change. They were walking up an incline now.

Javert almost ran into Valjean’s back when Valjean suddenly stopped.

“What is it?” Javert hissed.

In answer, Valjean moved to the side and took hold of Javert’s hand. He moved it forward—and then Javert could feel it too.

It wasn’t rock or soil that barred their way. In front of them, there was a door.

“This is how far I came earlier,” Valjean said softly. “It might lead us into the tower.”

“Can you break it open?”

“I’ll try,” Valjean said. “Ready?”

Javert nodded, then realized that Valjean couldn’t see. “Ready,” he said, holding his pistols cocked.

He couldn’t see Valjean either, but a moment later, there was a grating sound—stone moving against rock for the first time in decades, perhaps. Hinges emitted a faint metal screech. The sound seemed too soft to carry back as far as the chamber they’d left behind, but even so Javert listened cautiously.

“Come,” Valjean whispered. “Careful. There’s a stair.”

The door was open. In the darkness, Javert followed Valjean through it. In the room beyond, there was a hint of light—enough to reveal after a moment that this was no room. It appeared that they had emerged at the bottom of a stairwell. There was just enough light filtering down to where they stood that Javert could make out faint shapes—the body of Valjean, and in front of him an object of deeper darkness: the stairs.

When Valjean moved towards the stairs, Javert hesitated. They’d left the men behind. They were playing dice and drinking in a room that had to lie somewhere behind and below them. If they explored this space further, no doubt they’d find the door that would lead to the basement rooms the men seemed to use as their hide-out.

But Valjean had already begun to climb the stairs, and after a moment, Javert followed.

For once, Valjean was right. They needed to know what was going on in this tower. If it was indeed Fantine and her child that had been imprisoned here, and why. Afterward, he’d deal with the men.

Carefully, Valjean climbed the stairs, anxiously listening. He could hear no sound but that of Javert following him. Still, he couldn’t forget the danger they were in—three men, perhaps armed, drinking beneath them. At any moment, they could change their minds.

They’d have to find Fantine and the child and free them as quickly as possible.

The stairs continued to lead upward while little by little, the light increased. The first time they passed a window, Valjean paused to look outside. They were already a floor or two above the ground. It had to be one of the windows in the tower they’d seen from the ground. Valjean had inspected the walls from the outside, noting with a convict’s unfailing instinct the crumbling stone and the many small footholds found in cracks. He did not doubt that he could scale the wall and escape—but could Javert? And neither Fantine nor Cosette could make their escape that way.

No, unless they found a rope, they’d have to bring them all the way back to the bottom of the staircase and escape through the tunnel they’d used to enter. Which meant that they’d be perilously close to the three ruffians.

Javert nudged his arm and Valjean obediently continued. The next corner they turned, they finally found a door in the wall 

It didn’t budge when Valjean tried to open it, and from the amount of detritus and undisturbed dust on the floor, it was apparent that it hadn’t been opened in many years.

Javert gave him a curt nod, having apparently come to the same conclusion, and so they resumed their climb. Even now, with Valjean’s senses so entirely focused on the task at hand, his heart beating quickly with fear for Fantine, the sounds of Javert moving behind him eased some of his anxieties. It was as if Javert had never left—every word, every gesture was familiar to Valjean, and it was impossible to not feel grateful for the calm it brought. A year ago, he never would have believed it possible, but as Valjean climbed the stairs, his hands shackled and followed by the man who had been sent to return him to justice, he was filled by a deep gratitude to have Javert here with him.

The next door they passed showed the same signs of having been undisturbed for a long time. This time, Valjean dared to press the handle; the door opened slightly with an unpleasant screech, and Valjean froze in dismay, listening to the sound echoing through the staircase.

No other sounds followed.

After a moment, Javert’s hand came to rest on his own. He shook his head with a pointed look at the undisturbed dust on the floor. Valjean realized what he meant to say: if someone were to come up the stairs, they might see the newly disturbed dust and realize that there were intruders in the tower.

Chagrined, Valjean hastily closed the door again, his heart thundering at the echoing screech of the worn hinges. Then they climbed again.

On the next landing, everything looked different. The door now facing him had a shiny handle of brass untarnished by dirt or cobwebs. The floor, although dirty, showed the marks of many feet. There was no dust.

Valjean turned to Javert, who nodded, his face grim. If Fantine was kept in this tower, this might be the room where she was locked.

Javert leaned in, keeping his voice low. “Be careful. There might be more of them.” He stepped aside, silently cocking his gun and holding it ready.

With a deep breath, Valjean took hold of the door handle. There was no screech of rusty metal. The door moved with a slight resistance, like an old mechanism that had seen enough use in recent time for the rust to wear off.

It felt like an eternity until the door had opened wide enough to afford him a view of the room. Instead of the cry of anger he’d feared or the sight of a man rushing at him, all he found was an empty room.

Valjean exhaled in sudden relief, then found that Javert had already moved, entering with his pistol at the ready. A moment later, after a quick survey of the room, Javert turned towards him and nodded for him to follow. 

Javert didn’t speak, and when Valjean stepped into the room, he quickly saw why Javert was still tense. The room was small, holding mainly broken furniture and crates and a window that looked out at the forest below—but while the room was empty, there was another door in the opposing wall. This door looked more likely to hold a prisoner. It had been reinforced with iron and was closed not merely by a lock, but also barred from the outside.

Valjean and Javert shared a glance, then moved forward. Valjean took hold of the lock, trying to move as silently as possible. It was as he had feared: there was no key, and the lock wouldn’t budge. The iron bar could easily be released by someone on this side of the door, but without the key...

Valjean glanced at Javert’s pistol.

“They’ll hear it,” Javert murmured.

Valjean swallowed, wondering how long it would take for three men to run up the stairs. Not very long—not long enough, in any case, for two men, a woman and a child to make their way down the stairs and into the tunnel. Javert would have enough time to reload, at least, and from what Valjean had seen so far, none of the men seemed armed with pistols. And then, the staircase was narrow. They should be able to hold it, the two of them against three men.

But this was a risk they could only take if they knew it was worth it. They couldn’t afford to waste their one advantage—the fact that no one knew they were here—on yet another empty room.

With a deep breath, Valjean moved closer to the door. Then he called out softly, “Fantine!”

A moment of silence. Then he heard a sound behind the door. There was the soft shuffle of feet, but no answer.

Valjean exchanged a glance with Javert, who looked grim and raised his pistol once more.

His heart thudding quickly, Valjean leaned forward against the door. “Fantine! It’s me!”

Another moment of silence.

“Valjean?”

He exhaled in sudden relief. It was Fantine’s voice. He was barely able to make out the word—but that was her voice.

“Yes,” he whispered back with sudden urgency. “Are you well?”

A soft sound followed that could have been either a laugh or a sob, but when Fantine replied, her voice was firm. “They’ve threatened me, but they didn’t harm us. I have Cosette here with me. You have to be careful. They said they’d be back soon.”

“We’ve seen them,” Valjean said. “They’re in a room underground, drinking and gambling. We have some time—they said they were going to move you somewhere else after dark.”

“Can you open the door?” she asked.

Valjean hesitated a moment. “It’s locked. We can shoot off the lock—but they’ll hear the gun. They’ll be up here in a minute or two.”

Behind the door, Fantine swore softly.

Javert lightly touched his arm to get his attention. “The room beneath us. If we grab her and the child and run down the stairs as soon as this door is open, we can hide down there. They’ll run past us to find out what is going on up here. They’ll be loud and confused. It will give us a minute or two to make our way down and into the tunnel.”

It was a good plan, Valjean had to admit. Better than remaining here and fighting off their opponents. Valjean was confident that he was strong enough to ward the men off—the wound still ached, but it wouldn’t slow him. Still, it was better not to risk a conflict, especially with Fantine and the child at stake.

“I’ll look at the room,” he said. “I’ll leave the door open for us.” A second later he remembered the weight that encircled his wrists. Again he raised his hands plaintively towards Javert.

This time, Javert’s nostrils flared, but all he did was sigh deeply before he retrieved his key and unlocked them.

“Behave,” he warned. “Nothing has changed about why I’m here.”

Valjean nodded. He wouldn’t run—and he knew that Javert knew it, too. How could he, when he’d come for Fantine?

Valjean moved quietly, descending a floor until he found himself in front of the closed door once more. This time, he was prepared for the sound it would make, but even so his heart clenched at the angry screech of rusty hinges. He paused, listening with his heart pounding in his ears. Surely they were too far away from that underground chamber for the sound to carry?

Everything remained silent. A moment later, Valjean squeezed through the half-open door and found himself in a room much the same as the one upstairs. Unlike the anteroom to Fantine’s prison, this room was carpeted with a thick layer of dust. Mice had left their tracks and made nests in the ruined furniture that remained. The walls were bare, stained by dirt and water, the window allowing wind and weather unhindered entrance.

No one had come into this room in a long time. It would serve their purpose well enough.

Valjean moved back towards the door, opening it further when the stairway remained quiet. Again the screech of hinges made him flinch, but once again it didn’t summon the men drinking somewhere far below.

Everything was prepared now. The door was open wide enough that they’d be able to quickly rush inside. Valjean would force it closed behind them, praying that when the men raced upstairs, they’d miss the sound over the clamor of their feet and shouts.

“It’ll serve,” he told Javert once he’d climbed the stairs once more. Through the door, he told Fantine, “Everything is ready. As soon as the door is open, I’ll take Cosette. Tell her not to be afraid. We’ll run downstairs together. We can’t make a single sound once they’ve made it past us. Are you ready?”

There was a moment’s pause during which they could hear the quiet murmur of Fantine’s voice. Then she returned to the door.

“Ready,” she said. “Cosette knows to be quiet no matter what.”

“Step back from the door now,” Javert said. His voice was grim, his mien stern.

Valjean watched as Javert took a step forward and aimed his pistol. He couldn’t help but admire the formidable air of command with which Javert took control of any situation. How often had Valjean fought against that merciless determination and lost? Now, for once, it was targeted at common foe.

Valjean felt his fears quieten a little. For once, he wasn’t alone responsible for the fate of Fantine and her child. Javert was here. Javert had demanded control, and Valjean had allowed him to take charge. An invisible burden on his shoulders had suddenly lightened.

The gun exploded in a flash of light and thunder. Smoke rose from the muzzle—and the lock was gone.

A moment later, Javert kicked the door open. At long last, Valjean found himself eye to eye with Fantine once more, who looked frightened but determined.

A young girl clung to her skirts, her head a nest of pale hair so matted with dirt it reminded him of the nests the mice had made in the furniture downstairs. She, too, stared at him with wide, terrified eyes, and he thought that to her he had to look like a demon, bursting in on them through the smoke of Javert’s gun.

Even so, she remained quiet when Valjean rushed towards her and scooped her in in his arms.

Then they ran.

The flight down the stairs seemed endless to Valjean, the sound of their own feet so loud that surely the men had to hear it far below and realize immediately what their plan was. He knew it had only taken a fraction of a minute when they rushed into the room directly below the one they’d just left—but was it enough? Valjean released Cosette and then threw himself against the door, heart pounding with fear as it closed with another disagreeable screech.

Then they waited.

Valjean could hear sounds from far below now. No one dared to speak. Cosette was in her mother’s arms, her little face pressed into her chest while Fantine hugged her fiercely, her eyes on the door.

Valjean and Javert were watching the door as well, Javert still in the process of reloading his gun. Below them, they heard confused shouting—and then the unmistakable sound of boots on the stairs.

When Valjean glanced at Javert, he found him cocking his gun at last, then raising it at the door.

Javert made an impatient gesture with his head, and Valjean obediently moved out of his line of sight. Valjean waited next to the door, ready to force it back open as soon as their pursuers had made it to the next floor—and ready, too, to throw himself on any man who dared to enter, in case their ruse hadn’t worked.

The sounds outside grew louder and louder. The steps were so distinct now that Valjean realized they were coming up the flight of stairs that led directly to the small landing and the door behind which they were hiding. He didn’t dare to breathe as he kept his eyes on the door, waiting.

Then they were past. The door had remained closed.

Valjean listened intently. Fantine came forward, ready to hand off Cosette once more. The girl had remained as quiet as a mouse—no doubt just as terrified of being returned to the Thénardiers.

The boots stomped on and on, and Valjean listened, aware of every shallow breath he took.

Then the sounds changed. Instead of going up the stairs, they’d made it to the landing and were rushing into the anteroom of Fantine’s former prison. Shouts erupted when they found the door to her cell open—and under the cover of those shouts, Valjean yanked the door open despite the protesting hinges, scooped up Cosette and began running once more.

He didn’t have time to look around, but he knew that Fantine was behind him, Javert covering their retreat. The sound of his own steps seemed as loud as thunder. Surely their pursuers had already realized what was going on?

Taking the steps three at a time, Valjean panted for breath, forcing himself to go faster and faster until the staircase became a blur—and then, somewhere above, there was a roar and the sound of more feet clattering down stairs.

They’d been found out.

Javert could hear the sounds of their pursuers. The men above them were shouting hoarsely—clearly affected by drink, but even so coming after them rapidly. One hand on the wall, Javert held his gun with the other as they raced past turn after turn, the staircase suddenly appearing much longer than before.

Fantine was slowing them. Even after the hard work she’d known in Montreuil, this wasn’t a situation she was used to. Still, she ran as fast as she could without a single word of complaint. Although the men had to be gaining on them, they must have nearly made it to the bottom of the old stairwell now. It was becoming noticeably darker.

How many steps had they taken before they’d encountered the first window on their way up?

Javert took another turn, his hand going out to the wall to stabilize himself—and then the wall was gone. Instead of the constantly twisting stairwell, he stumbled into the gloom filling the small room at the bottom.

For a moment, he found himself disoriented—they’d forgotten in their plan that they didn’t have a light, unlike the men pursuing them. Then something caught his arm and he caught a flash of movement.

“Here—” Fantine’s voice, soft and breathless.

He allowed her to steer him and found himself plunged into utter darkness.

“Close the door.”

That was Valjean’s voice, somewhere before him. They’d entered the tunnel they’d followed to come inside then.

Javert scrambled in the darkness until he encountered wood. Hastily, he pushed at it until it moved and the door fell shut.

“Now quick,” Valjean whispered. “And silent.”

He could hear the sounds of their pursuers as he went forward into the darkness. The dull thuds of steps echoed from above—still on the stairs then. With any luck, the men wouldn’t realize that they’d fled through the tunnel. There had to be another entrance—the entrance the men had used to get inside, and which, perhaps, opened to some shady corner in the ruins of the building or a stone that could be moved.

Javert listened intently, still clutching his pistol. The only sounds he could hear were the sounds of Valjean and Fantine in front of him, fleeing through the tunnel as fast as they could. Behind them, indistinct voices grew first louder, than softer, a swell of anger that came and went.

They must have missed the door. They would have turned once they reached the bottom of the stairwell and rushed back towards their own secret exit.

Suddenly Javert became aware that he could see. There wasn’t a lot of light, but once again he could make out subtle shades of dark against dark. A few more steps, and he knew where they were: close to the opening above the room where they’d first observed the men.

Valjean and Fantine were standing before him, unmoving. In the sparse light, Javert could see the pale face of the child, staring at him with frightened eyes. Then he heard voices and realized why they’d stopped. Someone was in the room below.

“Thénardier will kill us if she got away,” someone groaned.

“I told you we should have done it right away! It was you who wanted to wait until nightfall!”

“Must have been the one who got away—strong like an ox, I tell you. He jumped straight from the window.”

“He wouldn’t have jumped here,” the first said impatiently. “Stop moaning. Quick now—you go back, Boulatruelle, and check the tunnel. You, with me. They can’t be far. And there’s the child. It’ll slow them down.”

They exchanged a look, as much as they were able to in the gloom. They’d have a few minutes until their pursuer would catch up with them—but no more. They’d have to make it out of the tunnel and back up the cliff by then, because the climb back up over the rocks was when they’d be at their most vulnerable. Anyone with a gun would easily be able to pick them off there. And with their pursuers now split up, they couldn’t afford to become trapped between them with no cover.

They waited as the men below them filed out of the room, taking the light with them. Every passing second felt like an eternity.

Then the room was empty, and they started again, once more plunged into utter darkness. Fantine’s breathing was heavy now, but she didn’t complain. Javert followed the sound of it and, softer, the sound of Valjean’s steps somewhere in front of both of them.

The tunnel twisted and turned. Then, somewhere far behind them, there was a dull, echoing thud. Someone had opened the heavy door that led into their tunnel.

They ran faster, blindly forward into the darkness, Javert still clutching his gun, one hand on the wall. The man following them had a lamp—surely they’d see his light in the distance long before he would see them.

A moment later Javert realized that there was indeed a source of light somewhere. He could make out the shape of Fantine, her outline a deeper dark against the darkness of their tunnel.

He clutched his gun and turned—and to discover, dumbfounded, that there was no light behind them. The light came from somewhere in front of them.

Turning once again, Javert hastened to catch up with Fantine once more. He could see more clearly now the next time they turned a corner—there was Valjean in front, carrying Cosette, whose head rested on his shoulder. Before them the tunnel turned once more, and beyond that bend—

Sunlight.

Javert blinked against the brightness of the noontime sun. How much time had they spent in that tower? Could it be that only a few minutes had passed? It felt as if they’d spent an eternity hiding and running, but it hadn’t been long at all since they’d first found the tower.

“Quick,” Valjean whispered, already on the rocky ledge above. “Into the bushes and then the forest, as soon as we’re up on the hill.”

Then he was gone, scrambling up onto the next ledge while the girl stared down at them with terrified eyes, although she’d kept as silent as a mouse.

Fantine wasn’t quite as fast as Valjean, but she scrambled up after him, using her hands and knees before she pulled herself upright. Without a single glance at the steep abyss to their right, she followed where Valjean led.

Keeping his attention divided between Fantine’s progress in front of him and the man they knew was behind them, Javert moved along the rocky ledge. It would be easier to make his way up the precarious path had he both hands free, but he didn’t dare to let go of the gun. At any moment, someone might appear above or behind them. Although he hadn’t seen any pistol when they’d observed their enemies in the small underground chamber, it was possible the men carried guns in their pockets—especially if they were responsible for the mishaps sometimes befalling travelers on nearby roads.

Javert didn’t waste time contemplating the precipice to his right. They’d made it down to the tunnel’s entrance, after all; he knew that although the path that led from ledge to ledge was narrow, it was possible to climb it.

Somewhere above, he could hear the sounds Valjean made. He tried to keep quiet, but even so there was the occasional sound of a stone falling. It took Fantine more effort to scramble up after him, although Valjean carried the girl. Javert found himself eying her progress impatiently, trying to gauge how much time had passed. They’d been halfway through the tunnel when the other man had entered it; how long would it take him to traverse the rest?

Javert gritted his teeth and looked back. He had a clear view of the ledge and the large rock behind which the tunnel opened. Which meant the man would have a good view of Javert, if he looked up...

Spurring himself to greater speed, Javert continued the ascent. He was out of breath, but even so he didn’t slow down. They couldn’t afford to be split up. He could fend for himself—but Valjean was unarmed except for his strength, and that would be of little help if the men carried pistols.

Another ledge to climb. He dared a look back and saw that at last, the end of the path was out of view. Unless the man managed to climb more quickly than they did, they’d be safe from his bullets, at least. Javert still couldn’t see Valjean, but Fantine was once more directly in front of him, her skirts dirty from crawling over rocks.

Before them, the ledge ended. Another rock blocked the path, and Javert hastily thrust his pistol back into his pocket, then grabbed Fantine’s hips and lifted her up to the first foothold.

She was as light as a feather. As he watched, she scrambled for a handhold, then pulled herself further upwards. A moment later, she reached the top of the rock and then vanished from view as she hastily made her path along the next ledge.

For the first time, Javert heard a sound somewhere below.

He didn’t stay to find out who or what it was. Quickly, he pulled himself up, following in Fantine’s footsteps. Without a moment’s pause, he ran along the narrow path straight along the cliffside, taking hold of his pistol once more. It was only when the path beneath his feet changed—rock turning to soil baked by the bright summer sun—that he realized that they’d made it to the top of the cliff at last.

There was no time to orient himself. This was where they’d be at their most vulnerable—with one pursuer behind them and the other two somewhere in front of them. They’d have to find cover as quickly as possible.

He caught a flash of dull blue to his right. He followed without thinking, one eye always on the tower and the ruins that surrounded it. It wasn’t far from where they’d emerged from the cliff to where bushes and trees began to grow, but his heart thudded in his chest with every step he took.

There’d been no shouts, he told himself, no gun shots. Valjean and the child were safe, and so was Fantine.

Even so, they ran for a few more minutes until they dared to stop, Javert nearly stumbling and falling right on top of Valjean as he found him crouching in a little hollow shielded by gnarled roots and large ferns.

They didn’t dare to speak. For a moment, they listened, none of them daring to breathe. All Javert could hear was the thunder of his pulse in his ears and the sounds of the forest—leaves rustling, branches creaking, and the whistling of the wind.

Finally Javert exhaled and gave Valjean a small nod. The child, he saw, was still clinging to Valjean, wide-eyed and terrified. Now that they were at last out of danger—if only for the moment—Valjean released her into Fantine’s arms.

“We’re still to close,” Javert said. “We need to get back.”

“An hour’s walk through the forest,” Valjean said quietly. “They’ll expect us to head back to Montfermeil.”

And there had been the old woman’s insinuation that, if not conspirators, Montfermeil’s agents of police had been bribed by Thénardier to turn a blind eye...

“Lagny then,” Javert said with an eye on Fantine and the child. “It’s a few hours walk, if we don’t encounter a carriage.”

And who would want to take them?

Javert smiled faintly as he looked Valjean up and down. Fantine was just as dirty and ragged as Valjean after their flight. “You look like brigands yourself.”

Then Javert paused as another thought came to him. Might not Thénardier use the chance to flee, now that he knew his game was up? The mere thought was infuriating. At any other time, Javert would have chosen to return to Montfermeil and make an arrest. Still, there was the matter of Fantine and the child...

“Paris isn’t far,” he said. “But first, we have to get out of this forest. We’re still too close.”

Tiredly, Valjean nodded, then reached out to once more take the child from Fantine’s arms.

Fantine pressed a finger to her lips. “You must be very silent,” she whispered.

“Is it Thénardier?” the girl whispered back, her eyes growing wide and terrified.

Fantine nodded and reached out to gently touch her cheek. The girl remained quiet, letting Valjean lift her into his arms without a single sound.

“Lagny?” Valjean said quietly, and Javert nodded.

“Lagny.”

It seemed the best choice, even though all of them were tired. But danger was still very close—they were only minutes from the tower that had held Fantine for so long. At any moment one of the men might come towards them. They’d only rested for a minute, but Javert knew that they’d escaped the tunnel only a few minutes before their pursuer. They could rest—truly rest—once they’d left this accursed tower far behind.

Only belatedly did he remember that Valjean had appeared wounded. Still, a quick glance at Valjean’s arm showed that there was no new blood soaking his bandage, and he carried the girl tirelessly. And while Javert might trust him enough to leave off the cuffs, he did not trust him enough to hand him his pistol and take the girl instead.

Once more Javert let Valjean take the lead. Valjean seemed to have at least had enough sense to study a map before blindly running off to Montfermeil, for he moved towards the south-east, where Lagny was situated, while Javert brought up the rear.

Torn between the need for haste and silence, Javert was acutely aware of every sound they made.

The ground here was soft with pine straw that rustled beneath their feet. In the silence of the forest, every sound carried. Once, they heard an echoing shout that seemed to come from somewhere to their left, and they froze, waiting for several minutes with their hearts pounding for something to come at them—but the forest was quiet once more. Nothing stirred but the wind playing with the leaves far above their heads.

Valjean looked back once they’d reached the bottom of the hill. He could barely make out the distant tower. The trees grew closer together here, and while that slowed them, it helped to hide their presence. Despite the heat of the day, it was cool in the shade of the trees.

Valjean was carrying Cosette again. They moved as quickly as possible, all of them aware that they were still very close to the tower. The trees grew more thickly in the direction they took, which made it more difficult for anyone to spot them. They moved without resting until before them, the thicket of trees and bushes thinned. It was the road that crossed the forest.

For a few minutes, they remained crouching behind the bushes, listening for any telltale sounds. The forest remained quiet.

Javert gestured for them to remain where they were, then rose, his pistol in hand. When he reached the road, he looked around before he crossed it. Still no sound, and no sign of their pursuers. And of course—why should they be here, in the eastern part of the forest, when Paris was in the west?

Valjean watched Javert as he looked back and forth once more, then nodded. Relieved, Valjean and Fantine rose and hurried across the road, Cosette’s arms slung around Valjean’s shoulders. Once more they hastily moved behind a thicket of bushes.

“We’ll be faster if we take the road,” Javert said. “I’m armed, and there’s only three of them. But they should have made it back to Montfermeil at this point, and I suspect that Thénardier has paid off the local police. Do you think Thénardier would risk it to come after us even now?”

Fantine’s face was flushed, her hair tousled by the wind. Even so, she didn’t argue for the easier option of remaining on the road.

“He would,” she said. “Somehow he has become convinced that I have a rich lover.”

She bit her lips and flushed a little, and Valjean saw Javert turn to give him a sharp look.

“I know why,” she admitted. “Monsieur Robert was kind enough to keep sending clothes and toys for Cosette whenever they wrote demanding more. I told them that I had no money, that he was merely a kind philanthropist who wanted to make sure that Cosette had warm clothes for the winter—but as soon as I arrived and Thénardier realized that he couldn’t blackmail me for more money, he overwhelmed me, He and his friends locked me and Cosette in that room in the tower. Every day, he came and demanded I write to my lover to send money. In the end, I…” Fantine’s voice cracked. “I gave in and wrote a letter, just as he wanted, hoping that Monsieur Robert wouldn’t merely think me ungrateful, but that he’d realize something had happened. The letter might not even have made it to Montreuil yet—”

“He was called away from home by business,” Valjean said softly. “Even if it had, he wouldn’t have been there to read it.”

“Instead, you came.” Fantine reached out, and Valjean was aware of Javert’s eyes on him when her small, pale hand squeezed his calloused fingers. “Thank you.”

“You said you’d write,” Valjean said. “I knew something wasn’t right.”

“I don’t know what I would have done if you hadn’t arrived.” Tiredly, Fantine wiped a dusty strand of hair out of her face. Then she turned towards Javert. The soft look in her eyes vanished as her brows drew together. “And you. What are you doing here?”

She showed Javert none of the subservience she’d been forced to show in Montreuil, back when Javert had still had power over them all. Javert must have noted her lack of politeness too, but for once did not react to it.

“I didn’t come for you.” He nodded towards Valjean. “I came for him. It might have escaped your notice, but as an indentured servant, he isn’t free to come and go as he pleases. The state’s already shown more leniency than he deserves. Given his dangerous reputation, they called me in from Paris to retrieve him.”

“But he didn’t do anything.” Fantine’s eyes widened with shock. “He only tried to help me—and you know that he was right. You saw it yourself! It’s Thénardier who’s dangerous!”

Javert smiled slightly. “That’s not for me to judge. I’m here to arrest Jean Valjean. Be grateful for the help you received.”

“All of this, and you’re still—” She broke off, nostrils flaring as she stared at Javert. Then she took a deep breath. “You’re wrong, and you know it, too. You took the cuffs off. You know what a truly dangerous man is—and you know there’s none here with us.”

Embarrassment rose in Valjean at the thought that the child had to listen to all of this. What would she think? She’d clung to him so trustingly. He didn’t think he could bear it to see her flinch away in fear from him.

But when he turned a little, he saw that Cosette had sunk against Fantine’s side, her small face a mask of exhaustion, her eyes closed. They’d carried her for most of their flight, but Valjean knew very well the bone-deep weariness that followed such terror.

“It doesn’t matter, Fantine,” he said softly. “Let it rest. I know what I did when I came here. And he knows I’ll come back with him without protest—once both of you are safe.”

Javert made a little sound that was half amusement, half derision, but didn’t argue with him.

Javert looked tired too. How long had they run? His face was gleaming with perspiration, and Valjean noted again just how much Javert had changed in the months since he’d last seen him.

He’d always been an ambitious man, and he was seeing his ambition come to fruition now. Javert carried himself like a man well aware of his power, pleased with the path his life was taking. No longer merely an inspector in a provincial town, he was now an inspector of the Paris prefecture and surely well on his way to an even higher position. He had every right to be proud.

Javert had triumphed against adversity to be where he was now; who knew that better than Valjean? And perhaps, if Valjean had tried harder, there would have been a similar path for him. He knew very well that one didn’t starve that fast. That one fateful day twenty-five years ago, he could have begged for bread or sat in front of the church and begged for coin, even if he would have been ashamed to be recognized by people who knew him.

He’d been cold, weary, desperate—but even so, he hadn’t thought. He’d merely lashed out like an animal and tried to take what was before him without thinking. He’d made a mistake where Javert had made none. And because of that one small mistake, their paths had diverged.

Javert had reason to be proud, and Valjean, who knew Javert better than any other, could not help but feel glad that Javert was doing well. Javert had earned what he’d worked for so hard. If only, Valjean thought helplessly, Javert could also learn to see how easy it was to make that one small mistake, that little misstep—not for the sake of Valjean, but for the sake of women like Fantine and children like Cosette...

“We’ll be safe once we’re out of this forest,” Javert said curtly. “Enough rest. We’ll find a place to stop soon enough.”

They didn’t dare to use the forest road for fear that it would leave them too exposed. Instead, they walked beneath the trees once more, still keenly aware of every sound, every creaking branch. When they finally reached the edge of the forest after half an hour, Valjean breathed a sigh of relief.

It was easy for a man with a gun to shoot a traveler in the forest. But out in the open, neither Thénardier nor his band of brigands would be so bold, especially now that they knew that an inspector sent from Paris was after them.

From what Valjean had seen of Thénardier, he would by now have cut his losses and fled. Still, for once Valjean agreed with Javert. Thénardier had thought that there was a large sum of money to make from blackmail. And if Javert was correct and the police agents of Montfermeil could not be trusted, then it was safest to go to Lagny. There, Fantine could take a diligence to Paris with Cosette, as she had planned, and Javert could decide what to do about Thénardier—and Jean Valjean.

Would Valjean be sent back to Montreuil, to be punished there? Or would they send him back to the prison hulks or sentence him to death?

No, Javert had been sent to retrieve him. They wanted him returned to Montfermeil. Surely Robert would not allow them to send him to the hulks or the guillotine. And neither, he thought, would Javert…

A careful glance at Javert revealed nothing of what he might think. Still, Javert had dealt with the matter at hand remarkably well. No matter what would happen to Valjean—Javert had not needed to help Fantine, who had so often antagonized him, and yet he had.

Valjean’s heart was lighter at the thought that Javert should have changed so much since he’d given himself over to him in Arras. Whether he knew it or not—Javert had changed, and for the better.

During their flight through the forest so far, Valjean had carried Cosette. Now, after they’d walked across an open meadow and reached several fields spreading before them, it seemed safe enough to set her back down.

“Is the master still angry with us?” she asked quietly, looking back towards the forest as if she expected Thénardier to come bursting forth at any moment.

Anger rose in Valjean when he remembered the small glimpses he’d seen in the inn of how they had treated the girl. Even now, everything about her small body aroused compassion: She was very thin, her hair dirty and tangled, her threadbare dress of cheap cotton ripped in places and mended not by the loving hands of a mother, but by the child herself. If she’d once possessed shoes, they must have been lost when they’d taken them to the tower; her little feet were bare.

Valjean knelt down before her. “You don’t have to be afraid of him anymore,” he said. “Never again. Your mother will take you to Paris, and you will be very happy there. We’ll make sure that you get there safely.”

She looked at him from fearful eyes. Then, at last, she nodded. A small smile appeared on her face, lighting up her eyes. When Valjean rose once more, she reached out and took hold of Valjean’s hand.

Stunned, Valjean gazed at her, his chest so tight that for a moment he couldn’t breathe. But the child seemed to have already forgotten about the danger behind them, and Valjean couldn’t bring himself to admit to her that it was his fault that she’d been parted from her mother for so long.

He avoided the eyes of Javert and Fantine, who both knew that he had done nothing to deserve such trust. Instead, he walked silently as they crossed meadows and walked along fields of golden wheat waving in the breeze, the sun behind them and her tiny, calloused hand in his.

It was afternoon now, the sun no longer directly above them, but it was still very hot. Now that they’d left the protective cover of the trees behind, the sun came blazing down on them with full force. They stopped to drink when they found a rivulet, but did not dare to linger, although they were surely no longer in danger now. Still, Javert drove them on and Valjean didn’t protest. Just like Javert, he would feel better to know Fantine and Cosette safe in an inn in Lagny or a diligence to Paris.

When they reached the end of the field, they found a path that ran south. This time, they gladly followed it, and instead of anxiously listening for any sound of their pursuers, Valjean began to hope that a farmer or a peddler might come their way who might be persuaded to take them to the nearest settlement for a handful of sous.

The path remained quiet. It was not the road that led through the forest and from Montfermeil to Lagny; it was a narrow path, used perhaps by the occasional farmer, but missing the wear of many feet and wheels.

For an hour, they followed it, the path gently curving around fields and the occasional hill or copse of wood until at last they saw a small house by the side of the road. At their approach, a dog began to bark. Soon a door opened and an old woman peered at them, a small child in her arms.

Valjean, who had been carrying Cosette once more, gently set her down. She clung to Fantine’s skirts as Javert approached the woman.

She was distrustful, and Valjean did not blame her; they did look like brigands themselves. Even Javert, who introduced himself as an inspector from Paris, did nothing to change her demeanor, although the handful of coins Javert dropped into her hand did.

A moment later, the old woman called a name. Another woman appeared—her daughter, perhaps, or daughter-in-law, bringing them a bowl of milk and bread, which they shared. At the sound of a fretful infant, the younger woman hastily vanished back inside.

“How much farther to Lagny?” Javert inquired. “Is there a carriage we can take?”

“Not from here,” she said. “And you won’t make it to Lagny if you walk. Not before sunset. If you follow this road further, you’ll come too another house. You might find a carriage there. If you can pay.”

The way she looked them up and down said that she highly doubted they could—and she was right, Valjean realized. Javert was the only one among them who looked respectable—and the only one who had any coin left.

Valjean had fled from the Sergeant of Waterloo with nothing but the shirt on his back. After his escape, he’d been forced to take clothes from a garden where they’d been hung to dry. Javert would not be pleased at all to hear of that part of Valjean’s flight, although Valjean still intended to pay for the clothes—or return them if they could retrieve his belongings in Montfermeil.

Fantine, who’d looked so young and hopeful in the clean dress of blue linen in which she’d come to say goodbye, showed the signs of her kidnapping and imprisonment, as well as their wild flight. The blue linen was torn in places and smudged with dust and dirt. And as for Cosette, the clothes she wore must have been little better than rags even before they’d imprisoned her together with Fantine in the old tower.

With the way they currently looked, Valjean wouldn’t be surprised if Lagny’s police took them for vagabonds.

“We need to wash,” Javert said. “These people ran into brigands in the forest of Chelles.”

“That doesn’t surprise me.” The woman eyed them doubtfully. “That forest’s never been safe. I don’t go there, and neither does my boy.”

“I’ll pay for warm water and soap,” Javert said. “And more bread, if you have it.”

Her eyes went from one to the other, lingering at last on Cosette for a while, who stood tightly pressed against Fantine.

“The woman and her child can come in and wash,” she said at last. “The two of you... If you walk around that hill, you’ll come to a copse of wood. There’s water there. Wash there.”

They walked for fifteen minutes before they found the promised stream. Valjean knew why they had been sent away to wash—the woman did not trust them around the house, with her son gone, and with both of them looking like they’d been involved in a fight.

It was still hot, but Valjean didn’t begrudge her caution. He had always preferred privacy anyway and would much rather walk in the heat than chance that one of the women or children might see his scars.

“Will you let Fantine go to Paris?” he asked quietly when they approached the copse of trees. It was a relief to walk in the shade once more. Now that they were truly out of danger at last, he allowed himself to savor the sensation of a breeze against his overheated skin and the green scents of the forest.

“She’s done nothing wrong,” Javert said. “Why wouldn’t I? You should be more concerned about your own fate.”

Valjean lowered his head in acknowledgment. He had been rash, he knew that—but had he not been right to act as he did? Who knew what would have happened to Fantine had he been just one day late.

“It was already great leniency to take you up on your offer of indenture,” Javert muttered as they strode companionably along a narrow footpath beneath the trees. “Don’t you know what’s at stake for you?”

“You’ve seen what happened to her,” Valjean said in turn. “That’s what I was afraid of, sir. There was no one who would look into it—Monsieur Robert might have, but he has been gone from town for over a week, and—”

Javert exhaled. “He was always soft on that woman.”

“Fantine,” Valjean said, and this time Javert chuckled.

“Fantine.” The name escaped Javert as little more than a sigh, but even so Valjean allowed himself to feel a small amount of hope at the sound of it. Perhaps not everything was lost.

There was a smile tugging on Javert’s lips when they finally reached the small pool, surrounded by trees except for a sun-filled clearing at the other side of the water where buttercups and dandelions grew gold and white among soft moss.

“Wash,” Javert said. “You need it. Truly, you look ghastly.”

Valjean looked down at himself and found himself agreeing with Javert. His threadbare shirt and trousers had become even further stained and ripped during their escapades. It was no wonder the woman hadn’t wanted them anywhere near their house.

He stripped out of his clothes by the side of the pool. The sun was burning down on him. He could feel a drop of sweat slide down between his shoulder blades.

It was a relief to wade into the cool water. Beneath his toes, he could feel stones polished by the water, slippery and cold. On one side, the pool was fed by a rivulet; the pool was deeper there, but Valjean stopped when the water reached his knees. He began to wash himself.

Behind him, he could hear the rustle of clothes followed by the sounds of splashing water. He didn’t turn around, although his heart had begun to speed up as memories resurfaced. How often had he washed Javert? How often had he followed the trail of water on skin with his eyes?

He exhaled slowly, still mechanically scrubbing at his skin, but now even the pleasure of the cold water and the heat of the sun had faded. All he could hear was the sounds Javert made as he moved deeper into the pool.

From the corner of his eye, Valjean saw him approach the deep basin of stone where a steady trickle of water kept refilling the pool. A bird was singing in one of the trees surrounding the little clearing. The air was heavy with the scent of water and honeysuckle.

Swallowing, Valjean at last looked up, only to find the pool empty. There was a ripple of water, several meters ahead of him. Valjean kept watching, unable to breathe as something in his chest kept aching so fiercely that it felt as if an iron band had tightened around his heart. Every heartbeat was agony. Still he kept watching and waiting, even the song of the bird and the rustling of leaves fading away.

Then Javert resurfaced, only a few steps ahead of Valjean where the pool was shallower.

Javert rose, dripping water, his eyes closed, and Valjean could not tear his eyes away. Rivulets of water ran down glistening skin that gleamed a rich, warm brown in the sun. Droplets shone in Javert’s beard, diamond-bright. Valjean felt the ghost of a sensation in his fingertips, the memory of running his fingers over the coarse hair of Javert’s beard, the contrasting softness of his cheeks.

Javert looked as he had always looked—his body all elegant lines, so unlike Valjean’s own powerful build. Javert had the appealing firmness of a man used to long hours on his feet and on a horse while lacking Valjean’s brute muscle. He had changed very little in his time in Paris, save for that his air of confidence was even more pronounced now.

Valjean had touched every inch of his skin. His fingers had followed the path one of the droplets of water now took, down from the hollow of Javert’s throat over the smooth plane of his chest, slowly sliding over the flat, firm stomach that drew attention to the narrow waist, and at last losing itself in the patch of wiry hair between his thighs. Javert’s cock was still soft, but tantalizing all the same with the memories of how it could be encouraged to harden, how the head could be coaxed forth from its hiding place beneath the foreskin, how the weight of it would fit into Valjean’s mouth until the taste of him might fill this desperate emptiness inside him once more…

Utterly unconscious of the vision he was, gleaming wet in the blazing sunlight, Javert exhaled in deep satisfaction.

“That’s better,” he said. When he opened his eyes, his gaze fell on Valjean. A wry smile lifted a corner of his mouth, and he took a few steps closer, rising further out of the cool water until he stood in front of Valjean.

“You look better, too. Go and wash your clothes as well. They’ll dry quickly in the sun. Otherwise we might not find a carriage willing to take you.”

Valjean swallowed and found that he couldn’t speak. Instead, he inclined his head and moved out of the pool. He washed his clothes in the shallow water, kneeling on the rounded stones, the water lapping at his thighs.

“You’re quiet today.”

Valjean looked up instinctively, shocked to hear Javert’s voice so close. Over the splashing of the water as he rubbed his dirtied clothes against the stones, he’d missed Javert’s approach.

Javert was right in front of him. From his position on his knees, Valjean found himself staring at a strong, smooth thigh, glistening with water.

Desperately, he tightened his hands around the shirt, but even so he couldn’t keep his eyes from straying further—the heavy, familiar shape of Javert’s cock right there, appealing in its softness as if it was only waiting for him to kiss it awake.

Javert laughed softly at his silence. “Why is that? Worried after all about what is to become of you?”

Valjean tried to think of what to say, struggling for breath and for words that would express this terrible longing inside him—had Javert not known the torment of these long, lonely nights? Was it only Valjean, who’d never experienced such a thing before, whose body found itself utterly unable to forget the intimacy it had known?

“I think you’re a fool, Valjean,” Javert said quietly, “but I don’t want to see you returned to the hulks. You need a firm hand on your reins, that’s all.”

Valjean’s breath escaped him in a desperate little sound that wasn’t quite a laugh or a sob. Then the shirt was forgotten, his hands on Javert’s skin, his mouth on his thigh, kissing the warm skin and the cold droplets of water and breathing in the scent of him.

Javert didn’t step back. There was no hand in his hair, no reprimand, and so Valjean surrendered to the helpless despair inside him and let his mouth go where it wanted, breathing kisses against Javert’s skin, drinking in the scent and the taste of him until he was dizzy with it.

Beneath his lips, Javert’s skin was hot and soft. Somewhere above, he heard a quiet sound—an exhalation of approval or, perhaps, surprise. It did not matter. Javert had not pushed him away.

All that mattered was the heat of Javert, the warmth of another body surrounding Valjean once more. He pushed closer until he felt Javert’s naked leg pressed against his thigh, Valjean’s tongue hungrily reacquainting itself with a body it had tasted so often: Javert’s hipbone, skin smooth and taut, the crease where thigh met body, the flexing of muscles beneath the skin of Javert’s stomach as Valjean lapped at every drop of water adorning his skin.

The scent of Javert was heavier now, the musk of arousal mingling with the cold-water tang of the pool. When Valjean lowered his mouth, he found him half-hard. Gently, he drew his mouth down the length of Javert’s cock, allowing his lips to familiarize themselves once more with that pleasure.

The foreskin had already pulled back, the head of Javert’s cock bare and wet. Valjean closed his lips around it when he reached it, his tongue learning the texture and the taste of it anew. He circled it slowly before he drew Javert deeper into his mouth, relaxing his throat to allow him to slide all the way inside until the weight of him filled his tongue and the head of his cock stretched his throat. His lips and his nose pressed into the wiry hair where the scent of Javert’s arousal was the strongest. Desperately, Valjean swallowed around him, eyes burning, reluctant even to pull back to draw breath until Javert’s hands close around his shoulders and gently pushed him off.

Valjean’s jaw was aching. Saliva was dripping down his chin. He didn’t dare to think of what he had to look like to Javert, but even now his stomach was tight with a desperate hunger as he panted for breath, his eyes burning with tears not caused by the penetration.

“Not that I don’t appreciate it,” Javert said, his voice rough and unsteady, “but if that’s what you’re in the mood for, we better retreat to less slippery ground.”

Valjean swallowed. When he looked up at last, he saw that Javert spoke the truth. Javert’s own eyes were dark and hungry—but the stones Valjean was kneeling on were slippery with lichen, and Javert had nothing but Valjean’s shoulder to hold on to.

Javert’s lips twisted into a small smile as he looked down at him. As Valjean gazed up, Javert’s tongue came out to moisten his lips.

“So you did miss me,” he murmured.

Valjean nodded, the thing that had taken over the hollow in his chest a violent tangle of emotions he couldn’t put into words.

He followed Javert out of the pool to the stretch of soft moss heated by the rays of the summer sun. Javert made him hang his clothes over a branch first so they could dry. Then Javert stretched himself out in a spot of sunlight, still glistening with water. His cock was wet from Valjean’s mouth and impressively hard, and Valjean found himself on his knees beside him, aching for the heat of a touch that he’d had to do without for so long.

This time, Valjean pressed his mouth to the center of Javert’s chest. Javert’s fingers tangled in his hair as Valjean slowly licked upward.

“They’ve allowed you to keep your hair, I see,” Javert muttered lazily, then made a pleased sound when Valjean’s tongue found his nipple.

It drew up into a tight point at his touch and Valjean gently pressed his tongue to it, circling it, fastening his lips around it to gently suck until Javert sighed.

When Valjean drew back, there was another glistening trail. He followed it with his tongue, tracing the edge where the plane of Javert’s breast met his ribcage, then licked up the droplets of water sparkling further downward, scattered over Javert’s shifting stomach. The water tasted cool and green, and when his mouth trailed lower, the salt and the heat of Javert’s skin grew more intense.

He nuzzled his nose against the dark curls growing at the root of Javert’s cock. Breathing in hungrily, he lapped at the droplets sparkling in the hair like diamonds caught in a net, then licked at Javert’s cock again for the taste of him, hot and heady enough to drown in it.

This time, Javert didn’t reach out for him, and Valjean kissed his way down the length of his cock only to turn and nuzzle at his balls instead, sucking them into his mouth to feel their weight on his tongue while Javert groaned.

Javert’s legs had spread a little. His thighs surrounded Valjean, who couldn’t resist the temptation and turned his head to press his mouth to the smooth, firm skin. A soft fuzz of hair teased his lips as he kissed his way further down. When he reached the point where Javert’s thighs joined his body, Valjean continued in his worship, breathing hungry kisses to where the hair grew thicker and coarser, his tongue licking water and salt from the skin behind Javert’s balls.

Another moan lured him onward. Drunk on Javert’s scent, he licked at sparkling beads of sweat and water until his nose pressed against the firm curve of a buttock and his tongue encountered tightly furled skin. Tenderly, he lapped at the small muscle, pressing his tongue flat against it before he teased it with little licks, wringing another sound of pleasure from Javert while his opening flexed against his tongue.

There was no protest, not even when Valjean pressed the tip of his tongue inside a little, licking and coaxing and breathing in the heady scent of Javert’s lust until he’d forgotten all about where they were and why they were here and what, in truth, they were to each other. All that existed was the salt of Javert’s skin, the heart-stopping delight of Javert lost to pleasure and the knowledge that Valjean had brought this about.

Javert, who’d returned from Paris to him with a new, different confidence, had not changed at all beneath his renewed air of authority. Valjean pushed away all thought of the world he’d have to return to soon enough—thoughts of cuffs and of Fantine and the town of Montreuil-sur-Mer. For a few short moments he lived only for the sensation of Javert on his tongue, this new exploration of Javert’s body that had been spread out for him like a feast, and the pleasure of knowing his body so well. Valjean had touched and tasted and explored every part of Javert until his scent and his heat and his shape had been burned into Valjean’s soul, a deeper brand even than that of the coin seared into his palm.

When Valjean finally drew away, his lips were swollen, his face wet, the taste of Javert on his tongue.

Before him, Javert was stretched out in the moss, his eyes closed and his mouth soft, lips slightly parted. Dandelions swayed behind him. Javert shone; where Valjean had lapped away the gleaming droplets of water, sweat had beaded instead, his body glowing with a golden luster in the sun that still stood high above them.

Javert’s cock was still hard, curving against his stomach where a small, glistening pool of fluid betrayed his growing arousal. Reverently, Valjean bent over him to lap at it. Then he wrapped his lips around the tip of Javert’s cock and sucked him back into his mouth, allowing Javert to slide down across his tongue until his lips were pressed against Javert’s hot skin, wiry curls tickling his nose. Javert’s cock was thick and heavy in his throat, filling him just like Javert filled all of his senses.

It was a rare moment of beauty and peace where everything else fell away. Valjean was unbound and free—no guilt, no shame, no burden to bear, just the heat of Javert’s skin, the taste of his pleasure and that aching hollow of desperation inside Valjean’s chest filled at last.

Javert found his pleasure all too soon, and with it, Valjean saw the end of that fragile peace approach.

Valjean made it last for as long as he could, lapping at the trickle of Javert’s release that had dripped from his mouth. The sun was hot against his back. Arousal thrummed through Valjean’s body, steady and relentless—but at last Javert reached down to bury his hand in his hair, and Valjean found himself pulled away and forced to face him.

Javert breathed deeply. Above him, leaves were swaying in the sunlight, green and gold against the blue sky. No sound could be heard but that of distant birds and the light breeze that stirred the leaves.

He stretched, utterly content after a release that had been more satisfying than any he had found at his own hands in many months.

“That was good. You’re very good at this,” he murmured and reached down.

Valjean was gazing at him, his mouth swollen and red. A trickle of Javert’s release had escaped him, gleaming on his chin. He looked utterly debauched.

Javert slid his thumb along the thick drops, gathering them up and then sliding his finger into Valjean’s mouth, who sucked the seed from his skin without protest.

What a vision Valjean was. He’d grown aroused himself from nothing more than having Javert’s cock in his mouth, and now his body was flushed with it. The pale skin that had once burned red in the harsh sun of the Mediterranean shone with a more becoming golden tinge. With the scars hidden, he had the looks of an honest laborer in the gentler sun of the northern coast.

His hair had grown a little, too. Had he not looked so utterly disheveled and debauched right now, he might have passed for a bourgeois in Paris with the right clothes. Not that Valjean had ever shown much interest in that, given his shabby garb and unfashionable hair even as Mayor Madeleine.

Still, gazing at him now, Javert was struck once more by the change he’d wrought in him. Perhaps, if he’d had the right to take him to Paris with him and continue his work...

“I missed you,” he said, pressing his thumb gently against Valjean’s bottom lip. Then he hesitated. That was not what he’d meant to say.


I missed this.


Although, he supposed, it was true that he’d missed Valjean as well. Surely that was only natural after having had the convenience of his service. Even though Javert had no complaints about his current lodgings, it didn’t compare to the life he’d had in Montreuil.

Valjean was watching him with eyes that had gone so dark with arousal that Javert couldn’t help but think of the occasions when he’d played with Valjean and kept him in that state for an hour or more. How thick his cock had swollen, how heavy his balls had been, straining against tight cords of leather until his need must have been unbearable—and still he’d borne everything had Javert asked of him without protest.

Yes, Javert had been good for him.

Valjean’s eyes fluttered closed. He turned his face, his mouth pressed to Javert’s palm, his tongue lapping at his thumb once more.

“I wondered if you were ever thinking of me.” The words came out hesitantly, Valjean’s voice hoarse. “At night, in my bed, I… I thought of you. Of how happy you must be with your new position.”

“It suits me.” Javert smiled as he thought of the Chief Inspector’s desk and his plans. “It suits me very well.”

Valjean was still gazing at him, his eyes wide and aroused and hungry. Javert had seen him like this before—but Valjean hadn’t even tried to take care of his own arousal. Instead, his eyes were fastened on Javert, desperate and strangely helpless, as if it was something else he hungered for.

Javert tugged him upward, settling his hand comfortably on Valjean’s hip. All of that immense strength still felt intimately familiar to him, and just as it always had before, that strength bent to his will.

He ran his hand up Valjean’s body, then back down, curving around firm buttocks while Valjean’s cock pressed hot and hard against his thigh.

“Kiss me,” he said, to see if Valjean would.

Valjean followed that order, too, the same way he had always followed it, the slightest touch of hesitance before his lips touched Javert’s. When Valjean’s tongue slid into his mouth, a little gasp escaped Valjean.

It was just as sweet as it had always been. Javert wrapped one hand around Valjean’s shoulder to keep him in place, his other hand lightly kneading his muscular backside, kissing Valjean until Valjean was breathless and trembling against him with desperation.

Amused and deeply satisfied that Valjean was still his as he’d always been, he reached between them to lightly wrap his hand around Valjean’s cock.

“Always so eager for me,” he murmured against Valjean’s lips. “I like that about you.”

All Valjean managed in response was a desperate little groan when Javert gave the sensitive tip a light squeeze.

“Too eager, maybe.” Javert slid his hand up and down thoughtfully. “All alone in your bed at night…? You’re not alone in the barracks. Are you certain that Caillot didn’t help you out with this?”

A shiver ran through Valjean’s entire body, his swollen cock throbbing desperately in Javert’s grasp. Javert ignored him and slid his hand lower to gently tease the swollen balls with his fingertips. “Although it’s true that I taught these patience.”

Javert shifted away a little to get a better look at Valjean’s cock. It certainly looked as if it had remained untouched for months—desperately hard and red with blood, Valjean’s balls tight and heavy.

Javert nudged them again with his fingers, watching in amusement how Valjean’s cock gave a little jerk.

“No one!” Valjean groaned. “I wouldn’t...”

“Perhaps. You didn’t in the hulks, after all. That’s a long time with only your own hand for company. Shall I take pity on it?”

Javert slid his hand back up Valjean’s cock, gripping him firmly this time. Valjean arched against him, breathless—and with only two more tugs erupted all over Javert’s hand and his own chest, his body trembling and his chest heaving while Javert kept stroking him lightly through the aftermath.

“Look at you.” With a satisfied sigh, Javert stretched out by his side once more. “You’ll have to wash again.”

Valjean didn’t look like he minded. He was on his back, his shoulder touching Javert’s, his head now tilting towards him. His eyes still had that dazed softness Javert remembered so well, as if he was constantly surprised by what Javert’s touch did to him.

Long grasses framed his head, a dandelion quivering in the gentle breeze. Javert watched as a seed or two were carried away, the rest still clinging to the stalk.

He leaned over Valjean instinctively and blew. The dandelion scattered in the wind in a cloud of seeds, the breeze lifting them. Below him, Valjean shielded his eyes to watch their flight.

It was very quiet. The sun was hot against Javert’s back, bringing back half-forgotten memories of childhood, rare moments of the heat and the sea and the shade found beneath a cork tree. The warmth of Valjean against his body felt good, even now that Javert was sated. He’d almost forgotten these moments of quiet companionship.

Valjean’s eyes closed, then opened again, focusing on his face. Something about the moment felt precious—a spell of quiet and solitude after the encounter at the tower and the flight through the forest. Strange to think that all of that had taken place within a day. Here, in this little sanctuary among the trees, it felt as if it had happened a long time ago, the only thing of pressing urgency the need for the heat of Valjean’s skin.

Valjean raised a hand, his fingertips ghosting against Javert’s beard. His eyes were unguarded, questioning.

What was Valjean asking?

Javert held himself still. He could feel something just out of reach, so close that he could almost touch it, hanging before him in this strange equilibrium where the world had been reduced to a heartbeat of wind and sunshine and the eyes of Jean Valjean upon him, as intent as if Javert was the only thing in the world.

Javert breathed deeply, watching Valjean’s face, Valjean’s fingers trailing along his cheek.

He could have stayed like this forever. All of a sudden, the thought of returning to Paris was no longer as satisfying as it should have been.

He would be in Paris, one step closer to a position that would give him security and respect and enough power to turn the slovenly duty-room of the prefecture into an establishment no honest citizen had to fear to enter. But Valjean would be in Montreuil—or worse, back in the hulks if they decided they no longer wanted the danger of a man like him. He’d never rest next to Valjean like this again—at peace when he’d never felt at peace before.

What was this strange contentment?

At last, Valjean’s hand fell away. They gazed at each other.

“What am I going to do with you?” Javert said very softly. Distantly, he was aware of the beating of his heart. Thud, thud, thud, it echoed through him, every contraction making him ache.

Dandelion seeds were still floating around them. A few of the tiny seeds settled in Valjean’s hair. Javert watched his own hand come forward to gently brush them away.

Valjean’s eyes were so soft he could have drowned in them, his mouth swollen and red and tempting. Javert couldn’t look away from him.

A bird sang in the distance. There was the soft sound of water, a steady, musical trickle.

Never before had he felt the knowledge so acutely, every sinew of his heart aching with it: Valjean was his. Even without handcuffs or chains to bind him, without a crop or a bit of iron, Valjean was his in a way no other had ever been.

Breathing unsteadily, he kept watching Valjean, wondering whether Valjean knew it too.

No, Valjean knew it. There was no doubt of that. It was the reason why he watched Javert like this, the reason why Javert could feel himself sinking into those eyes—the reason this agonizing mood had taken hold of him, a tenderness that had pierced his heart with hooks of steel.

He kissed Valjean, there in the meadow, pressing him back into his bed of soft moss, a new cloud of dandelion seeds dancing around them in the sunlight as he slid his tongue deep into Valjean’s open mouth, tasting him until he was lightheaded and his chest tight with the need for air.

Valjean’s lips looked bruised when he pulled back, gleaming wet and inviting. Javert brushed his mouth against Valjean’s again, gently sucking on his bottom lip.

Valjean was still watching him as he had before—quiet and strangely overwhelmed. Could this truly be the same man who had shouted at him?

Should this man truly be returned to the hulks?

It didn’t seem right. There was no reason for it, but all the same, Javert felt an instinctive revulsion at the thought of Valjean among the brutes he had once overseen. Valjean had changed, he couldn’t deny that. And while that first change, if Valjean was to be believed, had been achieved by Valjean himself and the preaching of a bishop, much of the recent improvement in Valjean’s manners had been Javert’s doing.

Were he to be sent back among those coarse men, back among murderers and the worst of the scum that haunted the streets of Paris, wasn’t it only too likely that the work would be undone?

An unsettling thought. Never before had Javert felt the need to argue for leniency for a man who had clearly committed crimes, who’d indeed confessed to them himself.

And yet, never before had Javert been so utterly convinced that a man had changed. He did not think that Valjean would steal again. Yet at the same time, Valjean broke laws without hesitation. Had he not run from his indenture? He’d done it out of fear for Fantine, but it didn’t change the fact that Valjean seemingly found it impossible to bend to authority. And as long as that was the case, could he ever be truly trusted?

Regretfully, Javert pulled back at last and gestured at the lake. Valjean pushed himself up to his knees, a new cloud of dandelion seeds lifting into the air. Javert watched silently as Valjean washed his release from his limbs, the blazing sun illuminating strong muscles and crisscrossing scars on his back alike.

It felt as if they were very far from Paris, although a carriage could have them both at the Prefecture within hours.

The thought should have been tempting, but it wasn’t. What strange powers did Valjean possess to distract Javert so from his duties?

Javert washed his hands. Valjean had stepped back out of the pool, the heat of the sun drying the drops of water that were sparkling on his skin. When Javert went to check on Valjean’s clothes, he found them quickly drying as well. It wasn’t much—Valjean would still look like a vagabond—but at least he’d be clean.

And once they made it to Lagny, Javert would return to Montfermeil and make certain that Thénardier never harmed another traveler.

Valjean remained silent when they walked back together to the small farm, although every now and then he’d turn to gaze at Javert. What was he looking for? Javert still couldn’t say. If he was hoping that Javert would let him run off with Fantine, he was wrong.

“I’m not putting any cuffs on you,” Javert said in a low voice once they reached the dirty courtyard once more, a suspicious dog announcing their arrival, “but that doesn’t mean you’re a free man.”

Valjean inclined his head. “I won’t cause any trouble, sir,” he said readily. “Not after what you did for Fantine.”

Javert couldn’t hold back a small laugh at that thought. Jean Valjean staying out of trouble? Now there was something new. “We’ll see about that.”

Some of the woman’s suspicion seemed to have eased when she greeted them once more. Thanks to the summer sun still shining down on them with undiminished heat, Valjean’s clothes were nearly dry. Fantine and Cosette had washed as well—he barely recognized the little girl that clung to Fantine as if she was still afraid Thénardier would return and take her back.

Her dirty, ragged hair had been washed and patiently combed; now it shone like gold in the sun. Like Valjean himself, she no longer looked quite as frightful, although the lack of smudged dirt on her face revealed bruises that stood out all the more on the thin, pallid face.

Valjean felt his stomach drop, the moment of peace he’d found by the lake forgotten as helpless fury rushed through him once more. He clenched his fist, aching for a confrontation with Thénardier, even as guilt made the brand in his palm throb fiercely.

The Thénardiers had beaten her—this little child too small to fend for herself. But it was Jean Valjean who had ensured that she’d remained with them for a year. If he hadn’t intimidated Fantine, if she’d told him straight-away about the child—if he hadn’t fired her—

“If you walk down this road,” the old woman told Javert, “in half an hour you reach a little hamlet. My sister-in-law lives there. You want the house with the large chestnut tree in front of it. They have a horse; her son will drive you to Lagny, if you can pay.”

“I can pay,” Javert said and handed her another coin, for which they received half a loaf of bread to share as they continued to walk.

The woman hadn’t lied. After they’d walked for half an hour beneath the sun, fields to both sides of the narrow road they followed, they reached at last a small cluster of houses. The reception they found there was just as cool, although the mention of the old woman who had sent them and the coin Javert carried with him soon had them sitting in the back of a cart that usually seemed to transport produce to the market in Lagny.

A ratty old blanket had been spread out, although in truth it made little difference to the ragged clothes they wore. Javert was the only one of their group who did not look as if he was running from the law, and he made certain to keep the dusty blanket beneath him and the bottom of the cart when he sat down.

They made only slow progress, but it was a relief to be able to sit after the events of the past few days. Valjean knew that he could have easily walked to Lagny if Javert had asked for it, but both Fantine and Cosette needed to rest. The heat grew only more suffocating as the cart rumbled on.

“Didn’t think I’d ever see you again,” Fantine said after a while, eying Javert.

Valjean watched Javert in turn, fearful that another argument would start, but Javert seemed amused.

“I didn’t think I’d ever see you again, Fantine Thibault,” he said easily. “But I shouldn’t be surprised. Trouble follows you wherever you go.”

As if on command, there was a sudden, distant grumble. When Valjean looked up, he could see clouds on the horizon, dark against the bright sky.

“I’ve done no wrong,” she said, straightening. “This time, even you can’t deny that.”

“I’m going to have a chat with that Thénardier as soon as I find some soldiers in Lagny,” Javert murmured. His brows drew together as he eyed the distant sky.

Valjean knew what he was thinking. If the storm didn’t pass them by, it would be difficult for Javert to make his way back to Montfermeil immediately. After the day’s immense heat, a storm like that might bring high winds and a great downpour. The farmers would appreciate the water—but the roads and bridges on the way to Montfermeil would not. And the more time passed, the more likely it was that Thénardier would be long gone by the time Javert made it there...

Then Javert sighed and leaned back, a content smile tugging on his lips as he gazed at Valjean. Valjean knew what he was thinking: He might not have Thénardier, but he had Valjean. 

Heat rose to his face as he thought of the moment by the pool. What was Javert thinking of him now?

But then, did it matter when soon enough, he’d return Valjean to whatever the law held in store for him? After this, he would never see Javert again. The thought still ached when it should fill him with relief instead. But now, having pressed himself to warm skin once more, having kissed Javert, having tasted his body all over, he knew that it wasn’t so easy.

It was Javert who’d made Valjean kiss him for the first time. It was Javert who’d made Valjean care for him. How strange then that to this day, he seemed unaware of what he’d done.

Movement distracted Valjean from the sight of Javert’s lips and his satisfied smile. The girl had left her mother’s arms and came to sit on a small crate between him and Fantine. In the brilliant light of the sun, her hair shone brightly, now that it had been freed from all the dirt and dust. Valjean gazed at the purple bruise beneath her left eye and felt fury well up inside him once more.

She smiled at him, then reached out with a tiny hand that was reddened and callused. Curiously, Valjean waited to see what she would do. A moment later, a finger disturbed a strand of his hair and a few last dandelion seeds blew past them.

Her smile widened, and Valjean smiled back.

Some straw was still scattered over the bottom of the cart. As Cosette watched intently, Valjean gathered a handful and then began to wind the stalks around each other. Little by little, the straw turned into a crude little puppet in his hand. When he held it out to Cosette at last with another smile, the girl reached out for it, then hesitated and gave Fantine a worried look.

Valjean felt a sting in his heart, remembering all of a sudden the furtive look for the guards before a prisoner dared to reach out for a crust of bread.

“Go ahead,” Fantine said and smiled at her. When her eyes met Valjean’s, her smile died, and Valjean could read in them the same guilt tearing at his own heart. The Thénardiers had treated Cosette no better than their dog—and it was Fantine who had left Cosette with them. Fantine who had kept sending money until she was so deep in debt she’d had to face the judge in Arras and been sentenced to indenture.

“Here. It’s for you,” Valjean said gently and handed it over to her.

Awed, the girl cradled the straw puppet as if it was a precious doll of porcelain.

“For me, monsieur?” she asked, as if she still wasn’t certain that the little straw toy was truly hers.

“It’s all yours.” Valjean forced himself to smile. “Did you not have a doll in Montfermeil?”

“Oh no, monsieur,” Cosette said. “Madame would beat me when I played with Éponine and Azelma’s dolls.”

“Madame isn’t here,” he said. “You can play as much as you want. In Paris, you’ll have a real doll.”

Javert made a scoffing little sound, but chose to keep quiet. Fantine rolled her eyes at him, then reached out and pulled Cosette against her, dropping a kiss onto the top of her head.

“He’s right, Cosette,” she said warmly. “You will have a real doll, and clean, warm clothes, and as much food as you want.”

“And you won’t leave, mama?”

“Never again,” Fantine said, her voice tight. “I’ll never leave again. I promise.”

Cosette nestled against her, still cradling the doll, and Fantine lovingly stroked her hair. Then she looked at Javert, her eyes turning hard.

“You see now? All that money I sent to them. Fifteen francs every month, more when they claimed that she was sick—and then there was all that money you sent, and the warm clothes and the toys Monsieur Robert sent last winter. Look at her now.”

“These Thénardiers are scoundrels,” Javert said. “I’m not denying that.”

“They tricked you just as they tricked me, didn’t they? Here, this is what Montreuil’s five francs bought her every month.” Fantine drew her callused hand over the horribly frayed cotton of Cosette’s thin dress. “But I know that’s not why you came. This doesn’t concern you anymore. I know you only came for him.”

“Don’t, Fantine,” Valjean said softly. Now wasn’t the time to watch these two get into it again. “I knew what I was risking when I left Montreuil. And without him, you might still be trapped.”

Fantine looked at Javert again, her own frame just as slender as Cosette’s, although the hidden steel inside her became apparent in the way she held Javert’s gaze.

“You did help us,” she said. “And I’m grateful. But so did Valjean.”

“I’m not denying that,” Javert said coolly.

Fantine’s eyes blazed. “Then why can’t you for once admit that you were wrong and Valjean was right? Just take him back to Montreuil and tell them that he did nothing wrong!”

“Don’t, Fantine,” Valjean said again, embarrassed. “It doesn’t matter. I ran—everyone knows it. It’s not Javert’s fault, in any case. And if they had sent another inspector after us, you might still be trapped in that tower.”

“Save your breath.” Javert sounded slightly amused, which was preferable to having him angry at Fantine. “It doesn’t matter what I think of his foolish ideas in any case. Or have you forgotten who the chief of police is now? All I was asked to do is find him and bring him back. After that, it’s someone else’s problem.”

“Is it,” Fantine said slowly, gazing pointedly at Javert.

At that moment, another peal of thunder echoed in the distance as if on cue. Worriedly, Valjean turned his head to watch the sky. The clouds on the horizon had grown, towering in the distance and moving rapidly towards them. The southern part of the sky had darkened, the cloud cover there an eerie dark gray while the sun was still shining brightly down on them.

How much longer to Lagny?

Fantine had turned to look at the approaching thunderclouds as well, resignation on her face. Just then, a first cloud drifted in front of the sun overhead.

“I should have known,” Javert said, giving them both a dark look. “Didn’t I say that trouble follows you?”

Despite the threat of the rapidly approaching wall of clouds, Valjean felt a momentary relief when instead of resuming their fight, both Fantine and Javert continued to watch the approaching storm. It didn’t take long until clouds covered the entire sky.

The heat was stifling, even with the sun vanished behind clouds. A breeze had sprung up. It carried with it the scent of baked earth, of cut hay and wilting grass. Over the rumble of the cart, Valjean could hear frogs croak, a choir that swelled and fell when they passed a shallow pool, dry reeds beginning to wave in the breeze.

“We won’t make it,” Javert said.

The wind increased, picking up leaves and dried grass from the path they were following. Valjean could feel the temperature drop. All the while, dark clouds built and built until it seemed as if they were driving straight towards a massive wall of near-black that rose up in the sky, lit eerily within by short flashes of light following by low, rolling thunder.

“It’s just a summer storm,” Valjean said, eying the clouds apprehensively. He’d lived in these parts long enough to know how such storms played out. The oppressive heat would culminate in a fierce downpour, more rain coming down in an hour than these fields had seen in a month. The wind would be high, but not dangerously so, and while the sky would turn into a spectacle of flashes of lightning and loud thunder, the storm would move on just as quickly as it had come.

In two hours, everything would be peaceful once more, and the parched soil would have drunk its fill.

Then a first raindrop landed on the back of his hand. He held his hand out, his palm up, and a moment later another drop splashed onto the brand at the center.

“It’s here,” he said unnecessarily as Fantine drew her battered shawl from her shoulders and wrapped it around Cosette.

Then the heavens let loose. Rain came pouring down like sheets of water. They were drenched within moments. With a muffled curse, the driver tried to urge on his horse, but even with the reverberating thunder spurring the poor beast to greater speed, it was no use. They were at least another half an hour from Lagny. Even if they managed to find a shed now, they were already soaked to the bone. They could just as well press on through the rain and hope that Javert would allow them a moment of rest once they reached the town.

Again thunder came rolling. Flashes of lightning lit the sky, and Cosette pressed herself fearfully against Fantine, the little straw doll held tightly in her hands.

Water ran down Valjean’s face, dripping from his nose and his hair, his shirt clinging to his skin.

A moment later, Javert stirred next to him. Without speaking a word, he shrugged out of his greatcoat, rain immediately darkening the slate gray wool of the tailcoat he wore beneath. He shifted forward on the wet blanket, then wrapped his coat around Fantine and Cosette before he leaned back once more.

The look Fantine gave him was halfway between surprise and suspicion, but she gratefully pulled his coat tightly around her and Cosette until nothing was visible of the girl but the small, pale face peeking out at the rain.

Javert had already settled back into the same position he’d sat in before. Rain was running down his face, gleaming in his beard and in his hair and dripping from his nose. The light slate of his tailcoat had turned dark with water. Another flash of lightning rent the sky, thunder following closely behind.

Even though the temperature had begun to drop with the arrival of the storm, after the day’s great heat the rain wasn’t unpleasant. Valjean made himself smile at Cosette’s frightened face despite the lightning and the rolling thunder. Then he leaned back against the side of the cart, warmed by Javert’s gesture, although he knew that Javert would never admit to it. He’d find some excuse for what he’d done, if Valjean were to question him once the storm was over. There’d be no use in bringing it up.

All the same, the sight of Fantine and Cosette huddled beneath Javert’s coat stirred something inside Valjean’s chest again, his heart aching anew, the way it had in the meadow. Whether Javert liked it or not, whether he’d admit to it or not, he’d changed. Perhaps that would be enough to quiet the ache when he was returned to chains and Javert returned to his own life.

Rain was still pouring down by the time they arrived in Lagny. The thunderstorm was no longer directly above them, but lightning still lit the clouds in the distance. The worst of the storm seemed to have passed; it was already getting lighter, and there was hope that within an hour, the storm might have blown past.

But even though the sky might turn blue again this evening, the roads were muddy, the rivers had swelled, and Javert was soaked to the skin. Furthermore, his task was to see Valjean retrieved. As much as he wanted to see Thénardier behind bars, the inn-keeper wasn’t what had brought him to Montfermeil.

The rain turned into a light drizzle as the tired horse pulled them through the streets of Lagny. Javert had contemplated going straight to the town’s chief of police, but in the end had told their driver to take them to an inn instead. The building in front of which their cart eventually stopped looked inviting: the windows were lit from within, the courtyard clean, and their driver promised that there was cheap and plentiful food to be had.

“I have no money left,” Fantine said when she pulled off Javert’s coat and handed it back to him. “Thénardier kept everything I had—the clothes I’d brought for Cosette, my own coat, coin for a carriage to Paris.”

“Get inside,” Javert said and nodded towards the door. “I’ll see if I can retrieve your things tomorrow.”

She gazed at him, surprised and still suspicious, but the rain—and the light coming from the windows—seemed to be better motivation than Javert.

Valjean smiled at him when he rose to follow. The rain had soaked through Valjean’s shirt, plastering it to his torso. Javert could see the outline of his muscles through the wet fabric.

“I had some coin left,” Valjean said softly. “Sewn into my clothes.”

“We can talk about that after we’ve dried and had something to eat,” Javert said brusquely. 

Valjean, no doubt, thought that he’d had a change of heart about Fantine, which was, of course, nonsense. Still, the day had been eventful, and Javert lived a spartan life. His meager Parisian pay easily stretched to two small rooms in a provincial inn.

Inside, it was warm. It was still too early for the regulars who’d surely soon fill the tables and benches, but there was a generous fire going, and the patrons that were already seated had a better look to them than the crowd that had filled the inn of that scoundrel Thénardier.

The child was quiet, desperately clinging to Fantine once more—no wonder, given her experience with inns so far.

Javert paid for two small rooms, wondering at himself as he counted out the coins for the landlord. A year or two ago, he would have been furious at such an act. But it had been an eventful day for all of them, they were dripping wet, and it wasn’t as if he had a lot of other expenses.

“You’re staying where I can keep an eye on you tonight,” he told Valjean, who looked as if he had expected no different. 

Fantine’s eyes rested on Javert, cool and knowing, but he shrugged off the sensation.

“Food,” Javert then said and counted out another forty sous. “For the four of us. I will be back soon.”

“You’re not going to keep an eye on me right now?” Valjean said.

Javert hesitated for a moment, then shook his head. Valjean looked positively indecent, dripping water all over the floorboards of the inn, his shirt wet to the point of translucency, without a coat. Javert wasn’t about to approach Lagny’s chief of police in the company of an almost naked escaped convict.

“Take the food to our rooms. I’ll see if I can find a coat for you.”

Perhaps he was a greater fool than he thought. Now that Fantine was safe, Valjean could easily escape with her. Why should Javert trust him?

“Thank you,” Valjean said quietly, more water dripping from his ragged hair.

***

He really should have at least cuffed Valjean to the bed in their room, Javert thought as he strode quickly through the streets of Lagny. During the time they’d spent in the inn, the rain had nearly stopped. The dark thunderclouds had moved on, and from a gap between the cover of paler clouds, bright sunshine fell in, a faint rainbow casting its arc across the sky.

Javert had been afraid that the town’s chief of police would prove distrustful, angry at what he might perceive as Javert’s intrusion onto his territory—but it seemed that the trouble with the forest of Chelles and the reports of travelers coming to a bad end had long been a thorn in the chief’s eye.

“The inn-keeper, eh?” he said. “Never heard anything good about that inn myself. If you’re traveling through Montfermeil, stay in the Wild Duck; it’s what everyone would tell you.”

“His accomplices are a man called Boullatruelle and two men hiding in an old charcoal burner’s hut, not far from the tower.”

“I know the old tower you’re talking of.” The chief nodded towards one of his men. “Pierru, take two men and some of the soldiers. Get me that inn-keeper in a cell—and his accomplices, if they haven’t run yet.”

“You’re coming with us, inspector?” Pierru asked.

Javert shook his head. “I have something to deal with. I will take a coach in the morning. And take care. They won’t be happy to see you in Montfermeil. Make sure to arrest the whole family—and let no one enter that inn. I wouldn’t be surprised if he hadn’t yet bothered to sell off his victims’ belongings.”

Javert wasn’t in the mood to waste time or coin on clothes for Valjean; a rag-picker let him have an old, ragged coat for a few sous, and Javert did his best to ignore the state of the filthy garment until he’d made it back to the inn, where he handed over a few more sous to have the thing washed until the morning.

By the time Javert entered the room he was going to share with Valjean for the night, he was ravenous, and well-pleased to find Valjean for once right where he should be.

“See. You didn’t even have to cuff me.” Valjean gave him a wan smile.

So his actions of the past few days were at last catching up with him then. That was only right. Valjean should be worried, given what he’d done and what could happen to him now.

Nevertheless, Javert was hungry and tired after the long day and the walk in the heat. He hung his coat by the door, then joined Valjean at the small table. Valjean was still wearing his wet clothes and Javert as well was looking forward to stripping out of the sodden garments that stuck to his body.

But first there was the food—good, white bread with a golden crust, a bowl of stewed rabbit, and coffee, still steaming.

They ate quietly and quickly. Javert finished his coffee, savoring the warmth of it on his tongue, the familiar bitter-sweetness deeply comforting. Then he rose with a sigh, and Valjean followed, hastily collecting the dishes. He looked at Javert, and after a moment, Javert waved him off. Perhaps he was becoming overly confident—but why would Valjean run now, when he’d had a hundred better opportunities today? Fantine and her child were safe now, of course. Still, for reasons Javert wasn’t quite ready to admit to himself, he was certain that Valjean would return.

And he did, within minutes, still drenched to the skin but looking calmer now.

“Strip,” Javert said. “Hang the clothes so they can dry overnight. Have a care with my boots.”

Valjean nodded obediently, his motions fluid as he drew off his wet clothes, revealing the powerful, scarred body Javert knew so well. He gathered Javert’s own clothes, hanging them over the chairs and table and windowsill. The boots he carefully stuffed with pages of an old newspaper so they would keep their shape.

It was soothing to watch him work. There was a certain elegance to it, a quiet sense that everything was right and that things were once more as they should be.

Javert’s brows knitted at the realization, then he shook off the thought and gestured for Valjean to come to bed.

Valjean didn’t hesitate. The warmth of his body settling against Javert was comforting, too. For a moment, it felt as if all the months he’d spent apart had never happened. Javert could imagine it so easily now: in the morning, Valjean would wake him the way he liked it, with his mouth on his cock. They’d rise, he’d let Valjean wash and dress him, and Javert would see to his duties and return in the evening to have Valjean take his coat and serve his food.

It was a strange fantasy that had no right to feel so seductive when it was Javert who had walked away from that life for something better. He did not regret Paris. He enjoyed the city, his duties, the rare chance to rise further than a man born to parents such as his usually could rise. Paris had been the chance of a lifetime, the goal he’d worked hard for his entire life. How could he indulge in fantasies of throwing it all away?

Even so, it was impossible not to cherish the warmth of Valjean against him, and not feel a small sting at the thought of the silent room he would be returning to.

Javert extinguished the candle. Then he closed his eyes, listening to the sound of Valjean’s breathing and trying to force back the emotion that rose up in him when after a moment, Valjean shifted, pressing closer against him before he relaxed into sleep.

***

The inn in Lagny had been built of good stone over two hundred years ago. It had stood and weathered the passage of time and kings and revolution with little damage. During the long hours of sunshine, the stone had soaked up the heat, and while the thunderstorm had momentarily caused the temperatures to drop, enough of the day’s heat had been stored in the stones of the old building that during the night, the air in the rooms beneath the roof grew uncomfortably stuffy.

Despite his exhaustion, Javert had woken once or twice, content to shift around and allow cooler air beneath the blanket before sinking back into dreamless sleep with Valjean a firm, warm presence by his side.

When Javert woke the third time, the room was no longer quite as stuffy. The air smelled cool and clear. It took him a moment to realize why he’d woken, but when he shifted and stretched out a sleepy hand, he encountered only emptiness.

Valjean was no longer asleep beside him.

Blearily, Javert sat up. Before him he could now make out the rectangle of the window, visible in the dim light of the moon. The curtain had been drawn back and the window had been opened to allow the cool nighttime breeze inside.

Valjean stood before the window, gazing outside. The moon’s silver light lit his pale flesh, giving him a strangely ghostly appearance.

Javert rose and padded towards him. Valjean didn’t seem surprised that he’d woken. He didn’t even turn to watch him approach, as if he wasn’t afraid that Javert might take this for another escape attempt and chain him to the bed for the night.

He should have chained him, Javert thought, but was distracted from that thought by the way Valjean’s muscles shifted beneath his skin. Still, Valjean clearly wasn’t considering escape. He was naked, for one thing. For another, their room was beneath the roof, and there was a drop of at least six meters.

Valjean exhaled when Javert curved a hand around his hip.

“It was too warm,” he said by way of apology, and Javert accepted it silently.

He gazed out of the window together with Valjean. The inn was close to the river Marne, along which Lagny had grown over the centuries. The town was larger than Montreuil-sur-Mer, prosperous due to its proximity to Paris, the river a convenient mode of transport for the gypsum from the quarries of Annet-sur-Marne.

Even so, at this time of the night the town was quiet, the river a stretch of darkness below meandering through the moon-lit twilight. The fresh night air felt soothing against his overheated skin, the breeze carrying a faint scent of water.

“I’m sorry I woke you, sir,” Valjean said after a moment.

Javert breathed in, his gaze still on the river, a shape of darkness faintly mirroring the light of stars and moon. If he pushed away all thought of what the coming day would bring, it felt as if he had never left Montreuil. As if nothing had changed. 

As if this was how things should be, and how they should remain forever.

He curved his arm around Valjean, his hand flat against his stomach, feeling the way he breathed. Javert stood there for long moments. When he finally trailed his hand downward, he wasn’t surprised to find that Valjean had started to harden. His own body had begun to rouse as well. Need pulsed slowly within him, a low fire that could yet be banked so that he could return to bed and sink into sleep.

“Come back to bed,” Javert said quietly and moved closer so that Valjean could feel his hardness against his skin.

Valjean shivered. Then he turned and followed willingly.

It was past midnight. They’d slept for a few hours. It wasn’t enough; Javert knew that he’d have no trouble going back to sleep, especially with the cooler night air that now came in through the open window.

Instead, he watched as Valjean stretched out atop the blanket and in turn watched him approach. Valjean was a beguiling vision in the dim silver-blue of the moon, his body contoured in iridescent light, his face hidden in shadow.

But there were no mysteries in Valjean’s eyes. Javert knew him too well for that.

When Javert reached the bed, he stretched out by Valjean’s side and ran his hand down his hip, lingering in appreciation on the firm shape of his buttocks. Javert’s cock throbbed, wanting, and Javert wanted, too.

“I want to fuck you,” he said.

Valjean exhaled, shaky, needful. “Yes,” was all he said.

Javert nudged his shoulder, and Valjean let himself be pushed onto his back.

“There’s no oil,” Javert then said. “Get it wet.”

He moved to kneel close to Valjean’s face, and Valjean came forward eagerly, his mouth soft and hot on Javert’s cock, as good as it had been by the lake in the forest.

Javert closed his eyes, let his head fall back, his fingers trailing through Valjean’s hair as he enjoyed the sensation. Valjean’s tongue was warm and wet and hungry, curling around him with such seductive softness that it was hard to resist the invitation to bury himself in Valjean’s throat. Instead, Javert touched Valjean’s cheek, his thumb following the line of his cheekbone, then searching out the shape of his mouth, the generous O of lips stretched taut, the slickness of saliva.

Valjean breathed through his nose, moving back and forth with a wet, obscene sound. Javert’s heart thudded painfully in his chest—he couldn’t even say whether it was the vision Valjean was, the sounds he made, or merely the velvet-soft curl of his tongue that traced worshipfully over the sensitive crown of Javert’s cock.

“Enough,” Javert said shakily and pulled back.

Valjean was breathing heavily, still gazing at him. Javert couldn’t resist the invitation to slide two fingers into his mouth, finding him wet and eager for it. That sensation was familiar, too. He pushed his fingers in and out of Valjean’s mouth, fucking him the way he’d soon fuck another part of him, and Valjean moaned for him again, sucking on his fingers just as eagerly as he’d sucked his cock.

It was enough to drive any man mad. How had he ever found the will to leave this?

Through the window, the night breeze carried in the scents of the night—moisture from the river, warm soil, a heady whiff of night-scented lilies from a nearby garden.

Valjean gazed at Javert above him, the taste of him still filling his mouth. All of it felt like a dream. Long months had passed since he had last seen Javert, and now here he was, warm and real and relentless in what his touch conjured in Valjean’s chest.

Even now he wasn’t entirely certain what Javert saw when he looked at him. Surely he couldn’t want to touch Valjean, not like this, while still believing that it was merely an unconventional form of discipline he used to keep Valjean in line? Surely a part of Javert longed for the sensation of warm skin against his own just as much as Valjean had?

Tomorrow they would part, one final time. After this night, he would never see Javert again—unless Javert was sent after him once more, of course. Yet who knew if Valjean would even be given a chance to escape after this escapade…

Nothing they did tonight mattered. Nothing they did would have consequences. There was nothing to be done but to give himself over to the sensation, hot skin against his own and the hunger of Javert searing his skin, one more memory for him to carry away.

Javert pulled his fingers free. They gleamed in the moonlight, wet with saliva, and Javert nudged him onto his side and pressed his fingers against his hole as he nuzzled at Valjean’s throat.

“Relax.”

Valjean exhaled deeply as Javert’s fingers slid inside.

It had been a while since he’d last felt that penetration, but yielding to Javert’s fingers was easy enough. He could feel himself clench around Javert, tighter than usual, but it felt just as good as it had always been when the fingers curled inside him.

Javert pulled out. Then his cock pressed against Valjean’s hole, and despite his arousal Valjean had to focus on keeping relaxed and open for Javert. The press inside took longer, the stretch more intense than it used to, but the sound of Javert’s heavy breathing against his ear was a thrill impossible to resist, the unyielding hardness that penetrated him an undeniable proof of Javert’s desire for him.

Despite the stretch, it was good to have Javert inside him, the searing pleasure of it entwining with the discomfort, Javert’s body undulating against him in the darkness of their small room as he slid deeper and deeper. Valjean closed his eyes, arching against him, aching for it, Javert’s own breathing changing to soft moans of pleasure.

When Valjean’s hand drifted down to wrap around his cock, Javert’s hand wrapped around his in turn, guiding him in slow strokes that followed the same rhythm of Javert’s thrust, the night breeze caressing their heated bodies as they strained against each other.

Orgasm came over Valjean like a deep, slow wave, starting somewhere deep inside him with the pressure of Javert’s cock and spreading through him with slow pulses. Javert’s hand was relentless and firm, keeping Valjean from speeding up his strokes as he trembled through his release, Javert’s thrusts coming just as slowly.

Valjean had already slumped against Javert, exhausted, his desire quenched, while Javert still moved inside him, his mouth hot and hungry against Valjean’s throat. Minutes passed before Javert came, minutes during which Valjean listened to the gentle wind outside and the creaking of the old house and Javert’s rapid breathing, Javert’s lips scaldingly hot against his skin.

Javert moaned once, soft and satisfied, when he finally spilled himself all the way inside Valjean. Even the hot pulses of his release seemed to come slowly, the moment lasting and lasting while Valjean tried to hold on to every last sensation.

Then Javert relaxed, nuzzling into Valjean’s hair. He draped his arm across Valjean’s chest. His breath slowed, and he sighed again, sounding utterly content.

“Sleep,” he said, his arm remaining in place around Valjean’s chest, his cock still inside Valjean. He pressed a kiss to Valjean’s sweaty shoulder, then turned his head.

Valjean could feel the damp skin of Javert’s cheek and the faint scratchiness of his beard against his skin. Valjean’s body still ached, Javert still a warm presence inside him, keeping him stretched open. He relaxed into the mattress, breathing in the scent of their sweat and their pleasure mingling on the night breeze, and then he closed his eyes, surrounded by Javert.

Valjean woke early, but realized with faint regret that Javert was already awake and up, washing himself at the little washbasin near the window, which was still open. The light that fell in had the pale softness of the very early morning. Birds sang outside as Javert ran a wet cloth over his body, the quays of the Marne already busy from the sounds the wind carried in.

There was a faint, remaining ache from the past night’s slow lovemaking, but Valjean did not mind the reminder as he slowly sat up. It was most likely the last time he would ever feel it.

“The diligence leaves early,” Javert said by way of explanation. “There’s enough time to breakfast if you don’t dawdle.”

Valjean felt a faint regret as he joined Javert before the washbasin, both of them still naked, Javert smelling of the unfamiliar, sharply herbal soap of the inn. He wouldn’t have minded to perform the task for Javert.

Javert smiled at him. “I don’t have to cuff you, do I?”

“No sir,” Valjean said automatically. It was true; Javert knew that he wouldn’t run. To be in cuffs before the child was too shameful to consider.

“I could hand you over to the chief of police here and leave them with the trouble of getting you back to Montreuil.” Javert was still watching him—naked, gleaming with water, unarmed, no match for Valjean’s strength. Javert smiled. “But they’ve sent me to retrieve you, and I’ll bring you back myself.”

Valjean inclined his head.

“You’re coming to Montfermeil with me. We’ll have a look at Thénardier’s inn. I’m sure the rat will have left the sinking ship, but maybe we can retrieve Fantine’s belongings.”

Fantine and Cosette were awake as well; they shared a breakfast downstairs in the inn’s tap-room, which was mostly deserted except for another pair of travelers. The child was quiet and seemed awed by the experience of sitting in an inn and not be expected to run and sweep and fetch water and serve food. When Valjean broke off a large piece of white bread and handed it to her, she gave him a bright smile.

Javert was eating quietly, and Valjean did not dare to turn and gaze at him. These moments of peace were rare enough, and this might be the last time he would see Fantine as well. Who knew whether Robert’s plan would still work?

Even if it did, could he intrude into whatever life she’d build for herself in Paris? The friendship of an escaped convict would do her no good...

“The diligence for Montfermeil leaves in half an hour,” Javert said. “We have just enough time to walk you over to the chief of police. Someone there will take your statement. Tell him everything that has happened to you, and as much about those villains as you remember.”

“How long will it take?” Fantine said. “It is a long way on foot to Paris, especially for a child.”

Valjean watched as Javert reached into his pocket. He put down several coins onto the table and pushed them towards Fantine.

“Take a carriage,” Javert said brusquely. “Don’t get into trouble again. This time, Valjean won’t be there to come running after you.”

Fantine hesitated, then pocketed the money.

“Thank you.” She gave Javert a curious look. Wisely, for once she seemed to have decided not to argue. “If my belongings are still in that inn, I’ll be able to pay you back.”

Javert inclined his head, disinterested, and continued to sip his coffee. Valjean quickly finished his own, the aroma bringing back sudden memories of the many mornings spent in Javert’s apartment. How strange to find himself suddenly longing for a time when Javert had taken such delight in teaching him his place. And yet, looking back, the ritual of those hours, the firm shape Javert had given his days and nights seemed strangely seductive now.

With shame Valjean recognized the feeling. He’d felt similarly when the first euphoria of having regained his freedom after nineteen years in the hulks had vanished. All of a sudden, the absence of the brutal structure that had beaten him down had turned from freedom to terror. He’d walked through uncounted streets and villages and found himself an outsider in a world that had long since moved on without him, a world in which he didn’t exist. In the hulks, as brutal as the rules had been, they were rules he’d been familiar with. There had been no choices for him to make, only orders to follow.

Maybe that was all it was. Maybe, as time passed, those memories of the year with Javert would fade away as well.

Still, it was difficult to believe it. In the months since Javert had left, the strange, helpless longing had only increased. And hadn’t Javert changed too?

It wasn’t the long, empty road in front of him Valjean was afraid of anymore—merely the absence of warm skin against his own and the familiar rhythm of Javert’s breathing at night.

When they left the inn, the girl slid her tiny hand into his once more, looking up at him with such trust that Valjean’s heart ached anew. Her small face was still bruised, her hand reddened and rough, but still she smiled at him.

“I’ll write to you as soon as we arrive in Paris,” Fantine told him. “Sister Simplice will help us. Don’t worry about me now.”

Valjean didn’t dare to admit that he wasn’t so certain where her letter would find him. Still, Javert himself had admitted that he didn’t want to see him returned to the hulks. Surely that would count for something?

“Be careful,” he said hoarsely, and before he could react, Fantine embraced him, her lips brushing his cheek.

“Thank you,” she whispered emphatically, then drew away and straightened.

She took hold of Cosette’s hand, then entered the station-house and Valjean found himself alone with Javert once more.

The journey back to Montfermeil did not take long. While the downpour of the past day had indeed made rivers rise, they reached Montfermeil without having to take too much of a detour. There were other travelers sharing the carriage with them, so Valjean spent the hour in silence, trying not to think of what might await him back in Montreuil.

In Montfermeil, they found the small town in an uproar. Gossip had spread quickly, and even before they reached the inn they’d heard the news that Thénardier had fled the town together with his family, abandoning the inn.

Javert frowned, but did not say anything until they reached the Sergeant of Waterloo. A soldier stood outside the door, guarding the inn. Inside, they found a man who seemed to know Javert—sent from Lagny the past day, Valjean assumed, but arriving too late to arrest Thénardier.

“I have two men out by that old charcoal kiln you described,” the man said, “and two men who fit your description whom we’re currently holding in the jail here. I’ve sent two soldiers to watch over them, just in case.”

Javert gave him a curt nod. “I’ll have a look at them and identify them once I’m done here. Did you find anything?”

“A faro table in a back room.”

“I’m not surprised.”

“No money, but there’s a stash of letters—all unpaid bills, it seems like.”

“That doesn’t surprise me either.”

Javert turned slowly to look around the tap-room. It seemed to have been deserted in great haste. The tables were greasy; no one had bothered to clear away tankards and plates.

“We’ve taken statements from the few people who were sleeping here last night and awoke to find their hosts had deserted them. The local agents turned surprisingly cooperative when they heard what was going on and that Thénardier was already gone.”

From the conversation, the agent from Lagny seemed to share Javert’s suspicion—that the local police had made a profit from their shares in Thénardier’s illegal gambling back room. They’d made the right choice yesterday, heading for Lagny instead of returning to Montfermeil. Even if it meant that Thénardier had fled, Fantine and Cosette were safe and probably already on their way to Paris now.

“And this arrived for you from Paris, sir.” The man handed Javert a letter, which Javert opened and read, then slipped wordlessly into a pocket.

Valjean didn’t wish the hulks on Thénardier, even after what he’d done—even after the bruises that marred Cosette’s face. All the same, it was a good thing that no further travelers would have to fear the forest of Chelles. And there was yet a chance that Thénardier might choose a life of honest work after his experiences here.

Valjean was glad to escape the journey back for another hour or two. Even though he’d washed his clothes the day before and Javert had bought him a new coat, he knew his looks didn’t inspire any confidence. 

“Show me the room where you stayed,” Javert said once he was done surveying the tap-room.

Valjean led him up the stairs into the room he’d been given. Even now, after the past day’s rain, the air in the small room was stuffy. Javert strode to the window and opened it, then leaned outside.

“That’s the stable’s roof below,” Valjean said. “I jumped.”

“I heard the story. You made an impression, running through the streets wearing nothing but a shirt.”

Embarrassment rose in Valjean once more. “I stole the clothes I wear from a garden, sir. I hoped I’d be able to return to pay for them. If my old clothes are still here, there will be a handful of coins—”

Javert turned away from the window to gaze at him, a small smile playing on his lips. “A thief after all, eh, Valjean?”

There was no heat in the words, just amusement. Could Javert be amused at being proven right after all?

Valjean ducked his head, standing awkwardly before Javert. He hadn’t really thought about it at the time. Just as he always did, he’d acted without thinking. Although, thinking about it now, he still could see no other choice. Even Javert surely would not have wanted him to have come to Fantine’s aid nearly naked.

“There was news from the Prefecture,” Javert then said. “About you. Someone doesn’t want too much noise made about your escape. I’m supposed to take you back as quietly as possible—the less people who know who you really are, the better.”

Valjean frowned. “Why?”

He could think of no reason for such a demand—unless, perhaps, Robert had been meddling, trying to protect him.

“I don’t know. Maybe it’s a good sign. Either way, let’s see what we can find here.”

Together, they searched the small room. There were still no irons around Valjean’s wrists. Moreover, Javert seemed content enough to let Valjean assist him. Perhaps it meant nothing—perhaps all it meant was merely that Javert missed having his new underlings from Paris underfoot and had latched onto the next best person to command around. Either way, Valjean didn’t mind it. After the past night, it was a welcome sign that Javert indeed no longer saw him as he once had. Whatever else Valjean might be, Javert trusted him enough to expect his help.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Nothing.” Javert turned to survey the small bedroom.

He’d found small marks, proof that the fight had taken place here—not that he’d doubted Valjean. It had damaged the small table and rickety chair and left scratches on the window frame. And yet there was no sign of Valjean’s clothes.

It wasn’t until they’d worked their way through all the rooms of the inn and moved on to the back room that held Thénardier’s illegal faro game that they finally had some luck.

The small backroom had been thoroughly searched by the inspector from Lagny, whose attention had been most focused on the faro table. There were several crates stacked against one wall. All of these had been opened and subjected to a cursory search, but from what had spilled out, mostly these served as storage for the inn, holding all sorts of odds and ends, from vegetables to broken mugs and jars to threadbare blankets.

One barrel, opened and pushed to its side, had spilled not a stream of wine but of cloth. Coats, shirts, stockings had tumbled out—stolen, Javert had no doubt, from some of the more unfortunate guests of the inn.

Javert kneeled before the barrel and reached into it until its contents formed a heap between him and Valjean.

“This coat,” Valjean said after a moment and pulled at something at the bottom of the pile. “Fantine’s.”

He laid it out next to him, frowning, then dove into the pile once more. “She had a small satchel. Brown, with—here!”

He pulled it free, then handed it over when Javert held out a hand.

Inside the satchel, Javert found a few letters, an embroidered handkerchief and a little toy of the sort Valjean used to make for the local children when he’d still been mayor. Javert held it up between them with a sardonic smile, then placed it back into the satchel. As he had expected, any money Fantine might have carried with her was gone.

“Here,” Valjean said again a moment later. “These are mine.”

They found all of his clothes—the worn cotton waistcoat, the threadbare coat, the trousers that showed the signs of hard labor and had been mended by Valjean’s own hands several times during the past year. Valjean reached into the pockets of his coat and shook his head, his hand coming out empty.

“He’ll have picked through all of these, took everything he found. Probably kept the clothes to sell them to a rag-picker in a few weeks, once everything had blown over.”

It wasn’t uncommon for this sort of inn. Valjean and Fantine hadn’t been Thénardier’s only victims. The number and diversity of the garments shoved roughly into the barrel showed that many an unfortunate traveler who’d chosen to ignore the coachman’s warning and stayed at the Sergeant of Waterloo instead of the Wild Duck had spent an evening drinking watered wine and found themselves mysteriously short of a shirt or a coat or a pair of trousers in the morning.

Then Valjean smiled at Javert with sudden relief and handed over his coat. “Here—feel along the hemline at the back. They didn’t find all of it.”

“That surprises me,” Javert said dryly. “I didn’t take Thénardier for a man to leave a single piece of stolen property unturned.”

“I caused too much of a racket. And then you arrived the morning after I’d made my escape. He must have been too busy.”

“He had quite a busy morning from what I’ve seen,” Javert agreed, pulling out a small knife and carefully opening a seam. With a little bit of work, three coins dropped into his hand—thirty sous altogether.

“That is all that’s left,” Valjean said, looking genuinely apologetic. “I know it won’t suffice for what you’ve spent on Fantine’s room and the food and her journey to Paris.”

Javert turned the coins between his fingers.

“Not stolen, sir,” Valjean said, his eyes pained.

Javert’s lips twitched a little. “Alms for a convict?”

A moment later, he pushed the coins back into Valjean’s hand.

“Sir?” Valjean said just as hesitantly.

“Keep it.” Javert couldn’t say what had driven him to return the money—save that it seemed a pathetic sum, and even more pathetic for an inspector of the Paris Prefecture to accept money from a convict.

Furthermore, he wasn’t in the habit of spending money on women like Fantine, which meant that he’d managed to save up a nice enough sum in the months he’d spent in Paris.

He’d meant to find nicer lodgings, eventually—his room sufficed for now, but he’d enjoyed the space he’d had in Montreuil. Within a year or two, he’d hoped to rent a better apartment—perhaps on a lower floor of his current lodging house, if something became available. It would be good to have a study again, space for more books, perhaps a set of good plates, a crate of good wine. There was always work to be done, and if he could one day sit at Gisquet’s desk, there would be even more work waiting for him. After coming up as he had done, Javert had a dislike of cramped spaces, of precious books, paper and ink squeezed into an old chest of drawers next to a narrow cot.

The work he did was deserving of respect.

After he’d set aside Fantine’s remaining belongings, Javert watched as Valjean changed back into his own clothes. He felt a vague niggling at the back of his mind, and after a moment he recognized it for what it was.

Valjean had stolen again. He’d admitted to it himself. Javert should be furious—or rather, he should be filled with the same cutting triumph he’d felt when Valjean had at last admitted his guilt in Arras.

Instead, all Javert felt was a small rush of delight when he watched Valjean bare his body. One final time he allowed his eyes to linger. Valjean’s shirt hid his scars, but couldn’t disguise the powerful muscles or the appealing shape of firm buttocks, Valjean’s soft cock outlined enticingly several times as he bent to pull on his trousers.

“What will happen to Fantine’s clothes, sir?”

Javert gave the garments in his hand a considering look. “They’re evidence, I suppose. I might take them back to Paris myself and have Fantine identify them. Once that’s done she can have them back. And one day I’ll have that scoundrel Thénardier.”

“He wouldn’t go after her, would he?”

Javert considered the question for a moment, then shook his head. “He’s seen who has come after her. Not a rich lover, but an indentured ex-convict and an inspector of police. He’ll stay far away from her. He won’t want my attention.”

Valjean inclined his head after a moment, his shoulders relaxing in relief. “And then, she’s going to the convent. She’ll be safe there.”

Javert bit back a soft laugh at the thought of a woman like Fantine in a convent with her child. But then, perhaps the idea she’d come up with was the right idea for once. She’d certainly find the convent much like the barracks she’d only just left. If Montreuil and Javert’s supervision hadn’t taught her the value of hard work and honesty, perhaps the sisters of charity would.

“Always so worried about that woman,” Javert said.

Valjean met his gaze, then averted his eyes, his cheeks suddenly coloring. “You know I have no intention of getting her into trouble, sir.”

Javert took a step closer. Valjean’s hair had grown back in disheveled curls, long enough now that Javert could have buried his hands in them and tugged on it. It would be easy enough for a barber to tidy his hair, although Javert liked the way it looked, the images it conjured in his mind.

He could see Valjean swallow as he raised his eyes to him.

“No. You don’t, do you,” Javert murmured.

There was no reason why the thought should fill him with such furious satisfaction—but it did. Even now, after so many months had passed, after everything he’d achieved in Paris, knowing that no one else had ever had Valjean’s surrender in the way that he’d had was enough to make his heart speed up with triumph.

“I never had,” Valjean said quietly, still watching Javert. The corners of his mouth were turned down, and there was something vulnerable and aching in his eyes.

Javert gazed at him, his fingers aching to take hold of that proud chin once more just for the pleasure of feeling Valjean’s surrender to his touch.

“You puzzle me, Jean Valjean.” Then Javert exhaled and became aware of Fantine’s clothes in his hands.

“Here.” He pushed them into Valjean’s arms. “Come along. We’ve seen all we needed to. If we linger much longer, we won’t make it back to Montreuil.”

Javert left the clothes Valjean had stolen on his flight from Thénardier at the station-house. It took no more than a few minutes to identify the prisoners held in Montfermeil’s jail as the men he’d encountered at the charcoal burner’s hut. Afterward, Javert sat down at one of the station-house’s desks, writing a first, preliminary report to be sent back to Lagny, together with the demand to have further information on Thénardier sent to the Prefecture.

With all lose ends tied up, they finally found themselves in a diligence on their way back to Montreuil not much later.

There were other people traveling with them. Javert had refrained from putting the cuffs on Valjean once more—and not merely because the letter he’d received had asked him to avoid calling attention to Valjean. Valjean was docile enough that even without the letter it would have been unnecessary.

Javert eyed Valjean again, worrying at the strange observation as if it were a sore tooth. Dangerous had started to feel like a lie.

Valjean had run from Montreuil despite all of his promises to the contrary, and yet Javert didn’t feel vindication at seeing Valjean show himself for who he truly was. Javert shouldn’t feel like this, and yet it seemed he’d come to believe what Valjean had claimed for so long.

Valjean wasn’t an honest man, no. But he hadn’t endangered anyone. He hadn’t even sought to escape. He’d wanted to help Fantine.

He wasn’t a dangerous man. In fact, the only one he’d endangered was himself.

Javert’s eyes lingered on Valjean, on the pained lines surrounding his mouth, the deep wrinkle between his brows. Valjean looked downtrodden, subdued even though there were no irons on him. Valjean, at long last, looked worried—and well he should be.

Why, then, was it that Javert couldn’t help thinking that Valjean should have nothing to worry about, save for a few lashes with a strap to teach him that disobedience had consequences? He wasn’t Javert’s to discipline anymore. And yet, if he had been, surely it would never have come to this.

If Javert had still been in Montreuil, Valjean would have come to him. Javert couldn’t say how he knew, but he knew it was the truth. Valjean would have come to him with his worries about Fantine and begged for help. And although Javert would have taken some convincing, if Valjean had laid out his argument reasonably, Javert would have—not ridden to Montfermeil himself, perhaps, but inquired with the Prefecture and the police of Montfermeil, which surely would have made Thénardier abandon his game.

***

It was another warm summer’s day. Halfway through the journey, they left their carriage in Breteuil, a pretty little town situated in the Noye valley around the remains of the old abbey Notre-Dame. The diligence would continue east to Saint-Quentin, and they would take one of the smaller, slower carriages that would take them past fields and farms and through forests from settlement to settlement until they’d reach Montreuil. After all, time was no longer of the essence, now that Valjean was caught.

Their coach’s departure was not for another hour, which left them enough time for a meal. With the sun warming his shoulders, Javert took Valjean down a narrow alley their driver had pointed out to them. At its end, they found a butcher—a shop of the sort that featured a backroom where cheap, filling food could be had, prepared by the butcher’s wife.

“It’s not quite Montreuil’s best inn,” Javert said, smiling as he remembered the dinner with the strange Englishman, “but it will do for now.”

“I daresay it will.” The cook was a resolute woman who eyed Javert with consternation. “A better bowl of tripe you won’t find anywhere, I promise you that. Simmered for fifteen hours with a good bottle of cider.”

Javert’s lips twitched. “Let’s have your tripe then.”

“And I have a nice stew of lamb giblets today, if the gentleman wants.” There was still unveiled sarcasm in her voice, but it was paired with pride in her skills.

The smell that arose from her pots was seductive, Javert had to admit—and there had been their driver’s enthusiasm for the small tripe shop. Cheap food, of the sort that attracted a crowd of workingmen, but good and satisfying.

It was a shame, Javert thought all of a sudden, that he’d never be able to take Valjean to his accustomed wine-shop in Paris. What would Azeline, the landlord’s daughter, make of him?

Then he realized where his thoughts had led him, and he frowned at himself. What a strange idea that was. Valjean was an indentured servant, the property of Montreuil-sur-Mer, and Javert was an inspector of the Prefecture. Why, for God’s sake, would he want to take him to dine where Rivette had so often taken him?

The food was indeed good, just as the proprietress had promised, simple yet filling, the stew rich with onions, thyme and mustard.

“Well?” she demanded after they’d tasted their dishes, standing over them with her arms on her hips.

“It is good,” Valjean said and smiled at her.

She smiled back, satisfied, and Javert marveled at the way the smile lit up Valjean’s face. It was entirely genuine—Javert knew him well enough to know that there was no subterfuge in it.

But then, why should there be? Valjean’s morality worked in strange ways, yet this woman and her establishment were in no danger from him. By all rights, a man like Valjean should be in cuffs right now—but what sense was there in that when Javert knew with absolute certainty that no matter what the state had to say about it, Valjean was not a dangerous man?

Given his escape and the consequences that might follow, Valjean was a danger only to himself. Javert didn’t doubt that had Valjean chosen to stay and fight that night in the inn, he might have stood a chance to overwhelm all of Thénardier’s thugs.

Instead he’d fled into the night.

“It really is good,” Valjean said, nodding at Javert’s plate when the cook left them to their meal again. “Thank you. This is... different than the last time we shared a carriage.”

“You’re more talkative, for one thing,” Javert replied, but only half-heartedly. He preferred it this way. Perhaps he shouldn’t—but what difference did it make, in the end, whether Valjean had a decent meal and didn’t wear cuffs during their journey? Javert was returning him to Montreuil, and that was all that mattered.

“It’s different now,” Valjean said slowly. “Isn’t it?”

Javert had no interest in dwelling on why that might be.

“That woman is on her way to Paris,” he said curtly, “and there’s no one left you can pretend to sacrifice yourself for. That’s what’s different. This time, you only have yourself to worry about.”

Valjean’s brows drew together again, but then he shrugged and raised another slice of tripe to his mouth.

Javert couldn’t even say why Valjean’s lack of concern annoyed him so much.

The tripe dish Valjean and Javert are eating is Tripes à la mode de Caen, if anyone wants to cook it...

Valjean watched fields and forest pass by as the carriage rattled along the road that would take them back to Montreuil. He knew that Javert was right—he should be worried about what was going to happen to him. Instead, all he felt was guilt at having destroyed Robert’s plans, when Robert had already done so much for him.

For much of their journey, they shared the carriage with other travelers. Valjean kept his eyes on the window, keenly aware of how he looked. He might be clean now, but his clothes were ragged. He didn’t look as if he belonged in this carriage, and he didn’t want to answer questions about who he was and where he was going.

It wasn’t until they were close to Montreuil that the other travelers left. Valjean had expected others to take their seats, but instead, the carriage halted for a while, and he heard low voices and the squeals of animals outside.

Finally, the door was opened, and the coachman stuck his head in. He looked at Valjean and then gestured at the empty seat next to Javert. “I’m sure you won’t mind sitting next to that gentleman there, will you?”

So far, they had been sitting opposite each other, no doubt so that Javert could keep an eye on him. At the coachman’s words, Javert made a little gesture with his head towards the seat by his side, and Valjean rose obediently to settle next to him.

Then the coachman turned away, but only to reappear a moment later and heave a cage into the carriage, placing it on the seats opposite that Valjean had just vacated. Inside the cage, three little piglets squealed—excited or indignant, Valjean couldn’t say.

“What’s that?” Javert demanded.

“Piglets,” the coachman said as he lashed the cage into place with a length of rope.

“I can see that myself.”

“They’re going to Montfermeil, just like you. Don’t worry, they won’t expect you to make conversation.”

The coachman chuckled at his own joke while he finished tying the cage in place. He gave it a little pull, then smiled, pleased when the rope didn’t give. Then he left them to their own devices once more, humming a little tune. Less than a minute later the carriage began to roll, and they found themselves alone for the first time since they’d left Lagny, with only the piglets for company.

Javert sighed deeply, then leaned back against the carriage. Valjean watched the piglets for a while, but after a few moments, the excitement of their new surroundings seemed to wear off and they settled down, sniffing curiously at the bars instead of squealing at every jolt that ran through the carriage.

“I suppose they’re better company than what we’ve had so far.”

Valjean turned towards Javert, taken by surprise by this sudden sign of humor. Javert was smiling, and Valjean found himself relaxing at the sight.

“You did not enjoy the conversation of the butcher and his wife, sir?”

Javert’s smile widened. “Did you?”

Valjean found himself smiling back. “Not at all, sir.”

Strange that he should feel so at peace when they were drawing closer and closer to Montreuil and to whatever fate awaited him there. But it was a rare treat to find Javert so at ease, and after the many months that had passed, it was good to have his company—especially now, when he knew that Javert had missed him. It might not be much, but it eased the worry that had gnawed at him. Whatever else they might be, Javert hadn’t merely made use of him to break him like one broke a horse. Javert had missed him. It was enough.

For a few minutes, they sat in companionable silence.

“How is Paris?” Valjean asked at last.

“Good,” Javert said.

He was silent for a moment, so that Valjean wondered whether that was all Javert had to say on the subject. But when Valjean turned his head to look at him, he found that Javert had tilted his head, a strange look in his eyes as he gazed at the window.

“The room I rent is clean and warm, and not too far from the prefecture. The landlady is a good cook—and not averse to renting to the police at all. Perhaps I have to thank Rivette for that.” Javert chuckled softly. “Still, it doesn’t compare to the apartment you were so kind to furnish for me in Montreuil.”

“Rivette, sir?”

Javert turned back around to look at him, a slight smile still on his face. “A man I work with. He showed me around—put me in touch with his landlady.”

“You’ve made friends in Paris.”

Valjean couldn’t say why that surprised him, nor why it stung. It wasn’t as if he hadn’t had Fantine and Robert to talk to—but somehow, when he’d thought of Javert, he had imagined him sitting at his desk, alone in the light of a lamp, just as Valjean sat alone on his bed in the barracks at night. During his time seeing to Javert’s needs in Montreuil, Javert had never shown any inclination to spend his evenings in an inn, and there had been no invitations to dinner from friends either.

Javert frowned, as if he wasn’t quite certain whether that was the correct term. “I suppose. He’s the best out of the lot I have to work with. Dependable, for the most part. Honest. More than can be said of most men.”

He smiled at little as he looked at Valjean, but Valjean found that he didn’t have it in him to return the smile.

“Why are you so interested in what I do in Paris anyway?” Javert asked softly. “You should be worried about yourself. I can’t understand you. I know you aren’t entirely foolish—surely you don’t want to return to the hulks?”

Valjean exhaled, thinking of the hard planks and the chains and the beatings. “No, sir. Of course I don’t want that. Who would?”

Javert’s lips twitched. “You liked it well enough when you were in my power. But that was different, wasn’t it?”

“Yes,” Valjean said, gazing down at his hands. “That was different.”

The brand at the center of his palm stood out, a pale, raised scar. Idly, he rubbed it with his other hand, his thumb following the lines of it until Javert’s hand clenched around his wrist.

“You know what I want, Jean Valjean?”

Javert’s voice was so soft and hoarse that Valjean couldn’t help but look up and meet his eyes, finding himself trapped by the heat in them.

“To take you with me. To continue where we left off. I had you well in hand when it was I who was in control of you. And look what has happened now.”

Valjean found that he couldn’t breathe, his chest aching as he kept looking at Javert. Javert’s thumb traced over the mark of the coin in his palm, and something inside him seemed to come loose. He shuddered, helpless, feeling naked before Javert’s eyes—but he couldn’t have pulled away even if he’d wanted, not with Javert touching his brand with careful fingers, his face close enough to touch.

“Then maybe you shouldn’t have left,” Valjean said softly, even though he knew he didn’t mean it—couldn’t mean it. How could he want it, when it was Javert who’d caused his misery? And yet a part of him mourned even now for the sensation of falling asleep pressed against warm skin, of waking to watch rays of sunlight make their way across Javert’s face.

“Is that what you want?” Javert asked.

Valjean shook his head, even though the tightness in his chest was aching again, the truth right there weighing down his tongue like a heavy stone. He swallowed against it, desperate.

“You don’t know anything of what I want,” he said instead, half bitter, half amused that this was how he should end up—trapped in a net Javert hadn’t even known he’d cast.

“Don’t I?” Javert said, a small, ironic smile on his lips.

Valjean knew what he’d say next. He could read it in his eyes. He’d reach out and take hold of Valjean’s chin, and then he’d command Valjean to kiss him, and Valjean wanted—he wanted to be free of Javert, free of this ache, free of the terror that was facing a life where he’d wake up every morning longing for the warmth of a man next to him who had long since abandoned him like one abandoned a horse that had been sufficiently broken and sold on.

Before Javert could utter a single word, Valjean had already leaned forward. He brushed his mouth against Javert’s, noting the way Javert’s eyes widened, the way his mouth softened. Then Valjean closed his own eyes, the squeals of the piglets and the rattling of the wheels falling away as he kissed Javert, desperate, yearning, knowing even while he slid his tongue into Javert’s mouth that it wouldn’t last and that within an hour, he’d be in chains again.

Still. As much as he regretted many of the things he’d done in his life, he didn’t regret this. One day, perhaps, he’d learn to live without once more, that longing long forgotten. Yet those breathless moments of his lips against Javert’s, the heat and the wetness of his mouth and the way all of Javert’s harshness could melt away, those would stay with him, he thought, just like the brand, and it didn’t seem so cruel anymore that he should have one more burden to carry when along with it, he’d carry that memory of sweetness, too.

Javert’s arms came around him, gripping him, and Valjean willingly pressed himself closer. As Javert’s fingers dug into his shoulders, he moaned against Javert’s mouth, his fingers reaching out to trace over his cheek, stroking the rough texture of his beard, then curving lightly around his head. Javert’s grip on him tightened almost desperately, pulling him closer, closer, until one of Valjean’s thighs was between Javert’s knees and he was half on top of him, Javert’s hard grip never faltering for a second, and Valjean allowed himself to think that if they just didn’t let go of each other, this journey would never come to an end.

But eventually, they had to part, both breathless. Valjean bent his head, breathing heavily, feeling Javert’s harsh grip soften until his hands traced along Valjean’s shoulders in a caress.

Then Javert released him. Slowly, reluctantly, Valjean retreated, returning to his seat next to Javert. It took a moment to catch his breath, longer to wait out the heat that had started to build inside him.

When Valjean was finally able to keep himself under control once more, he looked up.

Javert had leaned back against the corner of the carriage. He was breathing deeply, his lips wet and swollen. His eyes were closed, and Valjean used the chance to let his eyes linger, taking in the vision that was Javert undone. The rarest of sights: Javert overwhelmed by emotion. Who would have thought that one day such an intimate sight would be so familiar to Valjean—that he would know Javert at his most vulnerable and find himself able to love him for it?

He shivered with the realization. Was it love? He had never loved before, save, perhaps, in his childhood, and those years had long since vanished from his memories. And yet there was a tenderness in him in those unguarded moments when Javert allowed him to glimpse him at his most vulnerable—a tenderness so sharp that Valjean could barely bear it.

Slowly, Javert exhaled, then opened his eyes. For a while, they gazed at each other. Javert looked thoughtful, weighed down by something, as if he’d only just realized that they would part for good within the next hour, never to see each other again.

But surely that couldn’t be. Javert might have admitted to missing him and it was a relief to know that whatever he was to Javert, it was more than just a convict to be taught a lesson—but Javert had made his choice easily enough. Whatever this was, it wasn’t worth more to him than the life and respect he’d found in Paris.

And why would it be? Javert could have had a pleasant life in Montreuil—but it was Valjean’s fear that had made him pay the town’s inspector so well once he’d been made mayor. Javert wouldn’t have accepted a lower pay—not in a provincial town, not even if it came with Valjean’s company.

Strange that he should even think of wanting such a thing. Javert had found what he’d wanted in Paris, and in Montreuil, Robert had patiently worked out a plan that should see Valjean regain some happiness very soon.

Why then did it ache so much to look at Javert?

With sudden tenderness, Valjean became aware that during their encounter, Javert’s cravat had begun to unravel.

“Here. Let me, sir,” he said softly and reached out.

Javert frowned at him but remained silent, even when Valjean took hold of the soft linen and began to tie the ends anew, taking care with it—more care than he’d ever taken with his own even when he’d been mayor.

He could feel the heat of Javert’s skin, the rapid throb of his pulse when the side of his thumb brushed Javert’s throat by accident. Javert exhaled softly, but made no move to stop him until Valjean was done and had straightened once more.

Javert’s hand went to his cravat, lightly touching it, but his eyes were still on Valjean, his brows lightly drawn together. His moistened his lip, his mouth parting as if he wanted to speak, but then frowned and merely gazed at Valjean.

“Thank you,” he said after long minutes had passed.

Valjean looked down at his hands, clasped in his lap. As close at they’d been moments ago, he could feel the rapidly widening divide between them. They were approaching a crossroads once more. Once they reached Montreuil, their paths would diverge for good.

It was for the best. He knew that. What reason had he to mourn the loss of Javert’s company?

And yet his heart cared nothing for reason. A bitter laugh rose in him at the thought that he should have learned to love at his age only to find himself in love with the one man he could not love.

His hands tightened around each other until his nails bit into the brand at the center of his palm.

A moment later, Javert’s hands closed around his, forcing them to open. Valjean refused to look up. Instead, he watched as Javert’s fingers smoothed out his own, Javert’s thumb gently tracing the coin-shaped brand.

“Don’t,” Javert said quietly.

Outside, trees moved past so that inside the carriage, light and shadow played upon their clasped hands. The piglets snuffled quietly in their cage, the wheels of the carriage rattling in the grooves of the road.

Soon they’d be in Montreuil. And what would happen then? Perhaps, if Valjean could find words for this tangled thing of thorns and yearning in his chest, it might lighten the burden. But what could he say when he couldn’t even make sense of it himself?

“I hope you will be happy in Paris,” Valjean said at last, the words aching on his tongue. “I’m grateful for all you’ve done for Fantine. I really am.”

Javert slowly shook his head, and Valjean couldn’t keep himself from looking up, watching Javert for what might be the last time they’d ever be alone together again.

“I meant what I said,” Javert murmured. “I don’t think you belong in the hulks. I’m starting to believe that nothing will be able to cure that stubbornness of yours—but I do believe that you only ran because of Fantine. But I’m not stupid, Valjean. Would you have returned if I hadn’t caught you?”

Valjean swallowed, then slowly shook his head. He knew that he wouldn’t find compassion upon his return. No one in Montreuil would care about what had befallen Fantine—no one save for Robert and her old friends.

Javert sighed. “I don’t know what to make of you. I shouldn’t feel like this—your actions need to have consequences, or you’ll never learn. But I tell you, I—”

He broke off and laughed—a deeply troubled laugh.

“Sir?” Valjean asked softly after a moment had passed and Javert remained quiet.

“I would take you with me, if I could,” Javert admitted, reaching out again to lightly touch Valjean’s cheek before his hand sank down once more.

“But that’s impossible. You’re no longer my responsibility. And you have other things to worry about now. You should be very worried, Valjean—and not about what I think of you.”

Valjean silently inclined his head in acknowledgment.

“And then that letter... Let us hope that it’s a good sign. If Regnier is loath to have your escape become public knowledge in Paris, perhaps he’ll be just as loathe to drag you before a judge. Perhaps you’ll get off with a flogging.”

Valjean laughed bitterly, but didn’t protest. What did a few more scars matter? Javert was right. Anything but the hulks. As long as they’d keep him in Montreuil, there was still hope for Robert’s plan. If Robert was still willing to risk so much for a man who’d run and endangered all Robert had worked for...

The final part of their journey passed far too quickly, the bends of the road as familiar as the fields and meadows that went by outside the window.

Valjean was silent, his shoulders hunched—but he was no longer staring at his hands. Instead, he’d leaned back and was watching Javert with the quietness of a man who had accepted his fate. And yet he still didn’t look as worried as he should be. Valjean’s eyes rested on Javert, silent and unfaltering, as if things were still as they had once been between them, Javert’s opinion the only thing that should matter to Valjean.

How seductive it was to hold this power he’d had once more!

For the first time since he’d left for Paris, Javert felt strangely naked beneath Valjean’s gaze. It was Valjean’s fate that was at stake, they both knew it—yet why was it Javert who felt so vulnerable?

His fingers ached with the need to reach out and touch. A voice whispered in the back of his mind that if he were to ignore the law and take Valjean back to Paris with him, everything would be well again. Valjean would have the firm guidance he needed, and Javert would have everything he deserved. Why shouldn’t he have Valjean serve him in Paris? Even Valjean knew that was how things should be.

But Javert was not a thief, and Valjean had never been his possession, just like he hadn’t owned the fine horse and the generous apartment in Montreuil.

As they passed the ramparts, the wheels now clattering over cobblestone, Javert reached out one final time and grasped Valjean’s hand.

“Be quiet when we get back,” he said in a low voice. “Let me do the talking. You’ve assisted Fantine, and you haven’t resisted me; that speaks in your favor. Keep your temper under control, and perhaps I’ll manage to talk the mayor into leniency. He’d be a fool to lose a hard worker like you to the hulks.”

Valjean laughed once, a helpless, bitter sound, but bent his head in assent. “As you say, sir.”

Javert watched him during those final moments of their journey, unsettled by the way his throat had closed up, by how difficult it was to breathe all of a sudden.

There was nothing unusual about the situation he found himself in—he’d returned hundreds of criminals to justice. And yet, something was different, just as Valjean had said. Javert didn’t want to hand Valjean over to the law. Worse, he no longer believed that Valjean deserved to be under the control of the law.

The carriage came to a rattling stop, and Valjean exhaled. Instinctively, Javert found himself reaching out one final time to touch his arm.

“Remember,” he said. “Stay quiet. And none of your shouting this time.”

Valjean smiled bitterly but nodded. He followed Javert out of the carriage. As the letter had instructed, Javert had tried to avoid attention; instead of exiting the carriage where it would usually halt in front of Montreuil’s best inn, for a few sous the driver had taken them straight to the station-house, halting in the courtyard in front of the stable.

Javert bid a happy farewell to the squealing piglets in their cage and then found himself retracing steps he had taken so often that they still felt entirely natural.

The station-house was quiet. Gilbert was working at the desk by the door. At the large desk towards the back, a stranger was seated. That desk had once been Javert’s; the man who looked up at their arrival thus had to be Montreuil’s new chief of police.

“Ah,” the man said without much surprise. “You’ve brought back the convict.”

He was in his fifties, of a stocky, compact build. Instead of the order Javert had always kept, his desk was covered in papers and letters. That alone was enough to tell Javert with what sort of man he was dealing. It no longer surprised him that he’d been called in to hunt down Valjean. He rather doubted if the new inspector had ever journeyed further than the three leagues to Étaples if he could avoid it.

“Inspector Javert of the Paris police” he then introduced himself.

“I know,” the man said tiredly. “I’m Carrel, chief of police of this town. Gilbert, fetch the mayor. He’s been expecting you. And I think he’d rather you wait for him in the back with that one.”

Carrel nodded at Valjean. “Never understood why you’d keep one like him around, but then that’s the mayor’s problem, not mine.”

It was indeed no wonder that Valjean had escaped without any trouble, Javert thought, though he made certain to keep his face blank as he ushered Valjean into the backroom.

Through an open door, Javert could see that the cells were currently empty. He refrained from locking Valjean up. Valjean would go nowhere right now, bars or not, and if the mayor wanted him jailed, then he could say so once he arrived.

Javert remained curious as to what was going on. Judging by the inspector’s show of indifference, it couldn’t be so bad. Javert wouldn’t be surprised at all to hear that the mayor was merely worried about his standing in the town if it became widespread knowledge that Valjean had escaped and run. And yet, in a provincial town like Montreuil, experience had taught Javert that it was impossible to keep rumors from spreading...

Regnier did not make them wait long, which was another sign that made Javert believe his theory was correct. Within ten minutes Regnier was with them—and along with him, Robert had entered, Javert noted with a frown. That did surprise him.

“Ah, you retrieved him,” Regnier said. “Good, good. No less than what we had expected, of course.”

Javert inclined his head coolly.

“Well, now that that’s done with...” Regnier hesitated, his eyes refusing to meet Javert’s. He didn’t appear particularly triumphant at having Valjean in his power once more, or angry, as might have been expected.

Instead, Regnier seemed embarrassed. Javert narrowed his eyes. Was that then the reason why Regnier had instructed him to keep the whole affair quiet? Interesting. Regnier had nothing to fear in Montreuil. Surely no one would blame the mayor for Valjean’s wrongdoings...?

“If I may, sir,” Javert said slowly, testing a theory. “You have no doubt asked for my assistance because a dangerous convict roaming at large would be a public danger.”

Here Regnier flinched. Javert continued before he had a chance to speak.

“I am relieved to report to you that there was no danger to the public at all. The convict had merely become attached to a young woman, and upon hearing that she was in peril, acted without thinking, as such men often do.” Javert smiled slightly. “The woman had in fact been kidnapped by an innkeeper, and I took it upon myself to free her. Jean Valjean did not try to resist me in any way, and was indeed helpful on occasion. The innkeeper is the true danger. He has fled, although we arrested his accomplices. I am certain that he is responsible for the death of several travelers in the forest of Chelles during the past years.”

“Not a danger, you say?” Regnier said, Javert’s words about Thénardier as his tense shoulders relaxed. “That is a relief. That is, of course he is not—who would know that better than we do?”

He gave Javert a conspiratorial smile, which was rather off-putting, given that just half a year ago he surely would never have lowered himself to think of himself and Javert in the same sentence.

“There was never any danger at all, of course, but you know how it is—in any case, I am grateful for your assistance.”

Javert inclined his head without speaking, and Regnier looked at Robert as if searching for assistance before he continued.

“Ah, Javert, a word before you leave us…”

Regnier motion for him to follow, and Javert had no choice but to obey, although he disliked the thought of leaving Valjean with Robert. Then the new inspector entered the room, and now Javert truly had no reason to hesitate to leave Valjean behind.

Even so, Javert found himself pausing on the threshold and half-turned for one final glimpse of Valjean. He found Valjean watching him as well, his shoulders hanging down and his eyes wide and unguarded.

Was this the last time Javert would ever see him?

He should hope that would be the case. There were no good reasons for why an inspector of the prefecture and an ex-convict should meet, after all.

Then Javert took another step forward and closed the door behind him. Now this chapter, too, was done.

“Here, if you please.”

Regnier did not appear nervous, exactly, but something in him seemed ill at ease. He was—awkward, Javert concluded with some surprise. What reason was there for a magistrate to feel awkward in his presence? Javert was still merely an inspector of police, even if he no longer worked for Montreuil.

“I’m sure you will be eager to leave us,” Regnier said with a forced laugh. “Let me once more say how grateful we are for your help; you must be a busy man. I’m grateful indeed for the speed and efficiency with which you’ve solved this trifling problem.”

Trifling problem—now that was new. Little by little, things became clearer in Javert’s mind. Regnier was doing his utmost to keep Valjean’s escape and his retrieval by Javert a secret, or at least downplay it. Why?

“I’m certain the chief inspector will find similar words for you—no doubt they must be appreciating your work in Paris. Let me assure you that with the post coach tomorrow, a letter to the chief inspector will follow to impress upon him our gratitude for all you’ve done”

Javert inclined his head solemnly, although he doubted that it would do much to change Gisquet’s opinion of him. In any case, he hadn’t come to win Gisquet’s approval—what he wanted in the long run was Gisquet’s position, and he doubted that Gisquet would be in a position to help him to it, even had they been friendlier.

“One final thing, if I may.” Regnier was idly playing with a ring on his finger—a gold ring, with a fine, green stone in it. Regnier’s clothes, too, looked better than they had, back when Javert had worked in Montreuil. Regnier appeared not at all like a provincial magistrate anymore. The cut and color of his clothes were of the latest fashion and would have drawn admiring looks even from the most discerning audience judging the promenading gentlemen in the Luxembourg on a Sunday.

Like Javert, Regnier was an ambitious man. And from the looks of it, it seemed Regnier’s ambitions had come to fruition...

“I would be obliged to you,” Regnier said, keeping his voice low, “If you would refrain from mentioning the exact nature of these events. The papers are always hungry for such stories, and one does not want to see one’s name on the pages of disreputable publications. No doubt you feel the same concern for the reputation of Montreuil-sur-Mer—and your own name, of course, which was mentioned so favorably when you arrested that man. Let us not besmirch it. The task is done and he is back in custody, and your superiors will know what you’ve done for us. Surely that will be the best for everyone involved.”

Javert bit back a small smile. There it was—it was all very simple in the end. Regnier was afraid for his good name, or for that of the town. Regnier had no desire to find his name all over the Parisian papers in connection with the name of the former mayor and convict who’d fooled the town yet again.

Well, Javert had no objections to such a thing. For once, he agreed with Regnier.

“It was indeed a trifling matter,” Javert said. “I see no reason to have it blown up out of proportion. As I said, monsieur, that man was merely misguided and harmed no one. Put him back to work and I’m certain this event will soon be forgotten.”

Regnier was so relieved to find him amenable that he even shook Javert’s hand without flinching, and soon Javert found himself back inside a diligence, watching the once familiar fields pass by outside as with every passing moment, the carriage took him further and further away from Valjean.

***

“Ah, Javert. Back at last.”

Gisquet looked much the same—in fact, Javert wondered for a moment whether he’d risen from his desk at all during the days Javert had spent on the trail of Jean Valjean.

“I take it that problem is dealt with?”

“Yes,” Javert said. “Which means I’m back to work on the Petit-pont case—there’s another body in the morgue I want a look at, if there’s nothing else you have for me?”

Gisquet made a tired motion with his hand. “Just one more thing—about that Montfermeil case—”

“News about that innkeeper, sir?” Javert couldn’t help asking, triumph welling up in him at the thought that Thénardier should have made a blunder so soon.

“What? No,” Gisquet muttered. “It’s the prefect.”

From the corner of his eye, Javert saw Rivette curiously lift his head. Had Rivette not yet learned how to listen without giving the impression that he was eavesdropping? The other men in the room kept studiously busy, but Javert knew that at the mention of the prefect, ears had pricked up everywhere.

“He’s happy about the speed and efficiency with which you’ve dealt with that little problem,” Gisquet said. “Asked me to thank you.”

Javert inclined his head in acknowledgment despite his surprise. The prefect rarely took any interest in the day-to-day work of the inspectors at the prefecture, much less thanked them personally for something as inconsequential as the retrieval of an escaped indentured servant.

“And, Javert,” Gisquet murmured. “Given that the little favor you did the mayor wasn’t truly of any consequence, the prefect would prefer to keep it that way. There are more important things for the prefecture to worry about, after all. You understand?”

“Perfectly, sir,” Javert said and smiled a sharp smile as the last pieces of the puzzle fell into place.

So Regnier had made it far indeed—far enough to be able to ask the prefect of police for a favor, to have Valjean retrieved, and to have the men involved in his retrieval keep the affair quiet.

Well, Javert was not one to run to the press in any case, and he did in fact agree with Regnier and the prefect that Valjean’s escape wasn’t worth mentioning. Valjean had done no harm, whereas Thénardier and his accomplices were behind several murders in the area.

“Good, good.” Gisquet waved his hand again, then returned to staring at the pile of reports before him, intending, no doubt, to spend the rest of the day going through them as slowly as possible.

Javert smiled and returned to his desk to take the note that had come from the morgue for him.

“Rivette,” he then said with a sharp nod at the door, and Rivette smiled and sprang up, so eager to follow Javert out to the morgue that he had to run back from the door to fetch his greatcoat.

“I’m sorry.” Robert looked down at the iron shackles surrounding Valjean’s wrists. “It won’t be for long, I promise—”

“It’s no matter,” Valjean said, although he couldn’t bring himself to smile. “You’ve already done too much for me. You shouldn’t stay. You don’t want people to think—”

“Oh, curse those people!” The words escaped Robert with uncharacteristic force. “What do they know? In any case, it doesn’t matter. Regnier’s departure has been announced. In a month’s time, he’ll be in Paris. Regnier himself favors me as his successor—as well he should! Do you know how many afternoons I’ve spent listening to him prattling on and on about those new in-laws of his—but never mind. It was all for a good cause.”

He smiled shakily as he interrupted himself. Robert was ill at ease, and Valjean knew the reason for it. Robert was a good man at heart—had always been. He paid his workers fairly, and Valjean’s old jet factory was doing well in his hands. Robert had never before stooped to taking advantage of the misery of others and using the labor of indentured servants. And yet, here Valjean was, standing in his newest mill, his hands shackled so that Robert couldn’t help but feel that he, too, was complicit in Valjean’s misery.

“A month is not so long,” Valjean said lightly. “I don’t mind hard work. Don’t concern yourself.”

Robert didn’t look convinced by his words. “My most experienced foreman will oversee this mill. I trust him implicitly,” he said. “The workers respect him. He’s a fair man. I’ve impressed upon him that I don’t want to see you mistreated. I can’t say more—I wish I could! But I trust him. He’ll treat you like any other worker. Just—try not to get into any trouble.” Robert smiled this time. “Or at least, tell me first if there’s something amiss. I wish I’d been here when Fantine—”

“That wasn’t your fault,” Valjean interrupted gently. “Now go, before people start wondering what’s keeping you in here with me.”

“One month,” Robert repeated and clasped his shoulder. “I promise. Then everything will get better.”

Valjean looked around the small room he’d been shown to. Apprentices and those journeymen without a room in Montreuil itself slept in a small dormitory; Valjean would be kept separate from them, in a room that could be locked for the night, his hands shackled. That was the solution Robert had found for him—a place for Valjean where he’d be out of sight of the town, and out of the mind of Regnier, who was working his way higher up society’s ladder and didn’t want any scandal tainting his name when he was just about to embark on a new life in Paris with in-laws he needed to impress.

It was a good deal better than the hulks, even with the chains around his wrists. And a month truly wasn’t very long. Perhaps, by the time Robert was made mayor, the town would have all but forgotten about him...

***

The foreman was, as Robert had promised, a fair man, and Valjean soon learned that it was concern for the apprentices in his care that made him keep Valjean shackled after his work was done. Valjean told himself that he did not mind, but in truth, after those few, precious days in Montfermeil and the surrounding forest, it was difficult to get used to being locked and shackled once more, even though he slept on the same straw mattress as the apprentices and ate the same bread they did.

It was in many regards a much better life than that in the prison hulks—yet even so, he wasn’t free, and the awareness weighed constantly on him.

Within a few days, a letter from Fantine arrived, which did much to lighten his burden. Cosette had been given a place in the convent school—and Fantine, who could have remained in the convent herself as a lay sister, had after some hesitation found work in a nearby shop instead with the help of the sisters of charity, whom the shop supplied with some of those things the convent could not produce in its garden.

“It is not a bad life,” she wrote to him. “And to say the truth, for now I am just grateful to rest. Cosette is doing well in the convent, too. You would like it there. I have never felt so at peace before. There is an old gardener who works for the sisters—he has his own little hut in the garden, behind the walls, and he will retire soon.”

She had said no more—she knew that it was possible that someone else might find the letter and read it, but Valjean knew what she was trying to suggest to him. The thought was tempting—to work in a garden, behind the walls of a convent, where nothing of what had hurt him would be able to touch him...

Yet Robert had risked so much and worked so hard that Valjean couldn’t risk it all to run again. For now, it was enough to know that Cosette and Fantine were safe.

Just as Robert had promised, within a month Regnier left behind the town of Montreuil-sur-Mer to move to Paris, where his daughter had made a very advantageous marriage that combined Regnier’s money with the renown and political connections of her husband’s name. And a mere week later, Robert appeared, surprising Valjean where he had sat down with his bread and cheese for a few minutes of solitude before the work began once more.

“It is done.” Robert beamed, sliding so hastily from his horse’s back that he almost stumbled. “It’s all official now—they made me give a speech and everything, and I barely remember what I said, but here, look!”

Robert was indeed wearing the mayor’s sash, the elegant sign of his new office so at odds with the wide grin on his face that Valjean found himself smiling with Robert.

“Congratulations,” he said honestly. “I know you never wanted the office, but I do in truth think you will be good for this town.”

Half-embarrassed, half pleased, Robert waved him off. “Most importantly, I’m the one who decides what to do with the town’s indentured servants now. I assume it won’t take you long to pack up your things?”

Valjean still possessed no more than his bible and two sets of clothes, and he told Robert so. “I’d be ready within minutes—but do you think it’s a good idea to make your electors think that I’m your priority? Won’t they ask what made you ride to your mill, straight after your appointment?”

Robert’s face fell, but then he perked up again. “Why, I’m here to take care of my business, of course!” he said. “I need to talk to the foreman about the next shipment. But very well, you have a point. In two days’ time, I will send someone to take you to my farm. We might have to keep the shackles on for the journey, just for appearances—but I will come meet you on the farm, and then we can truly talk, and everything will at last be well!”

Still beaming, he turned at the sound of voices and began to lead his horse up to the mill instead before they could be discovered in conversation. Valjean took up his bread again, gazing at the swiftly flowing river and the water wheel that moved the millstone, smiling as he listened to the apprentices’ cheers as they discovered the mayor’s sash that now decorated their master.

***

“Don’t worry,” the man who had introduced himself as Matthieu said. “I’ve known Monsieur Robert since the day he was born. He trusts me—and he tells me that I can trust you.”

Reluctantly, Valjean held out his hands as the man produced a key and proceeded to unlock his shackles.

“There. That’s better.” The man stowed the irons neglectfully in a drawer. “Robert will come for dinner tonight. My wife’s been cooking all day. I’m sure you will have much to talk about—but until then, let me show you the farm.”

The farm was run as well as could be expected from one of Robert’s businesses. The stables were clean, the animals well taken care off, the stable lads happy and curious about the new arrival. The harvest had been brought in weeks ago, and the hayloft was ready for the winter. Most of the grain had already been transported to one of Robert’s mills.

As they walked, Valjean could see that one of the small tributaries of the Canche wound around a meadow, providing ample water. A lake gleamed not far beyond—offering good fishing, Matthieu promised. Soft-eyed cows grazed in the distance, and Valjean spied several horses out for pasture—mares of the elegant harness horse conformation Robert preferred, with foals at foot.

When they approached, there was another surprise waiting for Valjean.

One of the horses threw up its head, sunlight glinting on a coat of gold. With a triumphant whinny, the horse came cantering towards him, snorting as it halted right in front of him before its head nudged his stomach hard enough to make him gasp.

“Doré,” he said in disbelief, instinctively reaching out to stroke his head.

“Robert told us that this one was just a guest—waiting for someone special.” Matthieu laughed heartily. “Well, now we know.”

Valjean smiled as he stroked the Spanish gelding’s neck. Robert had told him that he’d bought Doré for him—but that had been so long ago, and so much had happened since then that he’d all but forgotten about it.

“Look at you,” he said softly. “You’ve been doing well.”

Doré nudged his arm, and Valjean smiled. He’d fallen out of the habit of carrying treats with him. It looked like he’d have to start saving the crusts of his bread again.

“I don’t know what Robert has told you,” Matthieu said slowly, watching Doré greet Valjean, “or what he’s planning on telling you this evening. To say the truth, out here, my wife and I don’t hear much of the town’s gossip, and we like it that way. We’ve heard about you, of course, but...”

Matthieu shrugged. “There’s work to be done from morning until evening, and a good worker’s worth his weight in gold out here. That’s what is most important to me. My wife and I aren’t the youngest, and we have no boys to help with the work. So if you think you are suited to this life, then that is what matters to us—not the past.”

Robert truly had thought of everything. As the weeks passed, Valjean’s fears gradually eased. The farm was just one of Robert’s many properties. Of those farms that grew wheat for his mills, it was the one furthest from the town, situated along a narrow path that ended not far behind the farm, used only by carts that brought supplies to them and grain to the mills.

Valjean, as an indentured servant of the town, had officially been sent to the farm to work hard, far from the town’s concerned bourgeois who didn’t want a convict in their midst. Robert truly had planned it well. There was no one in the town who cared about Valjean’s fate, and those who had opposed his presence were pleased by Robert’s initiative that kept Valjean away from where he might harm their daughters or wives.

“No one ever finds their way here by accident,” Robert had told Valjean that first night, when they’d gone for a walk to the shores of the small lake after an excellent dinner. “And if someone you don’t know should arrive, just grab the nearest sack of flour or a bale of hay and pretend that we’re working you hard day and night here.”

He grinned, then sobered. “I’m sorry. I know it’s not the same—it’s not what you must have hoped for. But it’s the best I can do. I promise, as long as you’re on this farm, you’ll be able to live as you please.”

“I don’t deserve your friendship,” Valjean said. Why had Robert done all of this for him? He’d taken such a great risk. Valjean, meanwhile, hadn’t even trusted him enough back then to tell him the truth about who he was.

“You’re my friend,” Robert said firmly. “And to say the truth, now that it’s me sitting at your desk, having to deal with everyone’s complaints, I admire you more than ever. You’ve done so much for us—the hospital beds, the teacher for the villages, the factory. Even the new station-house and the new inspector, whom you’ve paid very well, despite what he ended up doing. The town repaid you very badly for all you’ve done. The least I can do is try and make up for their behavior as best I can.”

Robert clasped his arm, there beneath the moon and the stars, the lake before them reflecting their light like a mirror. Robert’s eyes were shining. The moonlight was bright enough to see his face. He gazed at Valjean with an expression that made Valjean’s throat tighten and forced him to turn away, hating himself for it even as he turned.

Robert must have been disappointed—unless Valjean had read his eyes wrong. It might have been merely a trick played by the darkness and the reflected gleam of silver from the silent lake.

But when Valjean turned back, Robert was still standing next to him, just as patient, just as quiet—sadder than before, Valjean thought helplessly, and still he couldn’t force himself to raise a hand and touch Robert’s arm.

“You are a good man, Robert,” he said softly. “And I cherish your friendship, even though I know I don’t deserve it.”

That night, he slept badly, tossing and turning in his bed, although the mattress was as soft and the blanket as warm as Javert’s bed had been.

Perhaps that was the trouble. Perhaps his body knew that he didn’t deserve such comfort, that he belonged on the hard planks of the hulks.

When he woke at first light, it was with a confused longing at the taste of heat and salt in his mouth, casting about the bed for the touch of a warm, hard body that wasn’t there, aching and bewildered—and wishing, just for a moment, that a familiar hand would bury itself in his hair and force him down to the place they both knew he belonged.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Congratulations, sir,” Rivette said, beaming as he leaned against Javert’s new desk. “I cannot think of anyone more deserving!”

Javert raised an eyebrow, and Rivette hastily straightened.

Rivette looked good in the new uniform: a blue frock coat, buttons embossed with the coat of arms of Paris, blue trousers and tailcoat, a bicorn hat, and a cane with a white knob also bearing the coat of arms. For the first time in history, agents of police were now visibly declared to carry the authority of the prefecture. It gave Rivette a gravity he had lacked before—and it certainly gave the duty-room of the prefecture a more respectable air.

Javert leaned back in his new chair, surveying the room from the vantage point that had once been Gisquet’s. He well remembered his first impression when he’d entered the prefecture the day he’d thought to have finally gathered enough evidence to unmask Madeleine. Back then, the men who’d slouched against desks and walls had looked as disheveled as the ruffians they’d been tasked to bring to justice.

Now, under Javert’s watchful gaze, the men stood straight in their uniforms—no more dirty coats, no more slouching. There would be discipline in this room with Javert as the new chief inspector of the prefecture. There would be no more bribes, no more blackmail, no more embezzlement. He knew what the men in this room got up to when there was no watchful eye on them, after all. If they hadn’t yet learned that Javert was going to put an end to it, then they soon would.

Javert reached out and straightened his phrenology skull, then took hold of the inkwell he’d brought with him from Montreuil—confiscated from the old mayor’s desk almost three years ago. A trophy, Valjean had once called it in accusation—and at first, it had been.

As Javert gazed at it now, his eyes following the graceful lines of the stallion’s powerful body, all he felt was wistfulness. Taking Madeleine down had been a triumph—the first step on a path that had led Javert to this position. An enormous rise for a man who had started out as a mere guard in the prison hulks. But that triumph had been long since turned into something different. Now, what arose when he gazed at the inkwell was the memory of snapping his fingers and pointing at the floor and watching Valjean sink to his knees without protest. Now, he remembered a kiss in a carriage, desperate and yearning, and the moment when Valjean had taken his hand in a dark cave and Javert had entrusted his life to him without hesitation.

The inkwell was a symbol indeed, but for what Javert could no longer say. Perhaps it had become a symbol for change—because things had changed. Valjean had changed.

And something inside Javert had changed as well, whether he liked it or not.

“Think you might make prefect yet, sir?” Rivette asked with obvious affection.

Javert scoffed, but Rivette continued, undeterred.

“Be that as it may, sir—I was wondering if you had any plans this evening?”

That’s right, Javert thought. A man in his position would be expected to buy his men a few bottles of wine on the eve of his promotion.

He steepled his fingers and looked at Rivette, who smiled at him.

“Vannier’s?” Rivette said. “Shall I inform the men?”

Javert relented. “Once the work is done.”

“Of course, sir.” Rivette was still smiling. “No one would expect differently from you. Nice inkwell, by the way.”

“Yes,” Javert said softly, reaching out to run a finger along the elegantly arched back. “Yes, it is.”

“A gift?”

This time, Javert’s expression was enough to make Rivette concede defeat.

“I’ll see you this evening, sir!”

***

It hadn’t been a bad evening at all, Javert decided as he returned to his lodgings, Rivette walking by his side.

He couldn’t make a habit of it—if he expected discipline from his men, he had to hold himself to even higher standards than what he expected of them. Still, perhaps an occasional indulgence could be allowed. As Rivette had pointed out, it was the eve of his promotion, and Javert doubted that seeing him share a few bottles of Vannier’s excellent Beaune wine would lower him in the men’s esteem.

If it became a habit, of course, that would be rather a different thing—but the very idea of him developing a habit of drinking with his subordinates seemed even more bizarre than the trust he’d placed in Valjean.

Javert’s lips twitched when he realized that even on this day of days, his thoughts had returned to Jean Valjean once more. For some reason, no matter what the day brought, hardly a day went by when he didn’t think of him.

It wasn’t merely that his body missed the easy pleasure of waking to the sensation of Valjean’s mouth around him. Even today, sitting in the wine-shop and listening to his men admiringly retell the story of Javert’s latest arrest of an infamous cutthroat while Rivette gazed at him with affection in the warm candlelight, Javert found himself wondering how Valjean would like the place.

On this day, would Valjean have gazed at him with affection in his eyes as well? Would Valjean have been proud of him?

How ridiculous to expect it of Valjean, of all people. And yet... Valjean had been sincere when he had wished him luck in his new position. If Jean Valjean were here, right now, a part of him would be glad for Javert.

Ridiculous to even think of it. Why should Javert waste his time wondering what an old convict would think of him when today was the day Javert had at last taken over the office of chief inspector? It was Javert who ran the prefecture now. This was the day he’d worked so hard to achieve for most of his life. Today was supposed to be the triumph that made all of his earlier sacrifices worthwhile.

Still, the thought of Valjean was tempting. If Valjean were here—if Javert had done as he’d told Valjean, if he’d taken Valjean with him to Paris...

Valjean wouldn’t be here, for one thing, not with Javert’s men. Valjean might have come to like Rivette—he was that sort of man—but Valjean wouldn’t have wanted to spend an evening drinking with police agents, and neither would Javert have wanted to bring a convict and exhibit him to his men.

If he’d brought Valjean to Paris with him, he would have taken Valjean to this wine-shop alone, just the two of them, to celebrate with Vannier’s finest vintage and a good meal cooked by his wife. Valjean would have gazed at him in the candlelight with soft eyes, a comfortable, familiar presence, their shoulders brushing against each other as they walked home together in the darkness...

“Another drink, sir?” Rivette said when they reached the house where they both rented rooms.

Javert hesitated, but the thoughts of Valjean had made him maudlin. He knew that if he returned to his lonely room now he would find no rest—memories of Valjean had a habit of lingering, worming their way into his day.

“Just one,” Javert said. “Don’t forget, I’m still your superior. I’ll be as hard on you as I’d be on anyone if you show up for work tomorrow in a disgraceful state.”

Rivette laughed as he poured them each a glass of brandy in the empty sitting room. The table had already been set for breakfast for the next morning. They settled in armchairs by the fireplace that still emitted a faint warmth.

“To you, sir,” Rivette said and raised his glass. “Chief Inspector Javert.”

Javert smiled and raised his own glass. “To a successful year.”

The uniforms were only a first step, after all. He doubted that Gisquet would be much of an ally in Javert’s mission to mold the prefecture and the agents beneath him into men that could command respect instead of open derision—but all the same, Gisquet wouldn’t stand in his way either. Gisquet was the sort of man who managed to cling to his seat for an astonishingly long time by sheer inertia. As long as Javert didn’t rock the boat too badly, Gisquet couldn’t care less how Javert ran the prefecture.

Javert had no interest in interfering with Gisquet’s political career, and Gisquet had no interest in how Javert did his job—it was an arrangement that would work well for both of them, at least for a time.

Everything was going well. This was the time to enjoy the rewards of hard work. Why then, even on this day of all days, did he keep wondering how Valjean was doing in Montreuil…?

***

Two weeks after that evening, Javert moved into his new lodgings. Rivette had been sad to see him go—although Rivette had also been given new responsibilities as Javert’s right-hand man. With the small increase in pay that came with it, he could now afford to take over Javert’s former room a floor below.

The rooms Javert had found were a little farther from the prefecture. While the house itself was small, it meant that he had an entire floor at his disposal, which jutted out in a rather crooked fashion above the neighboring house’s stable. Nevertheless, with only the animals beneath him it was quiet at night, and the apartment at last gave him the separate study he had long dreamed of.

Two shelves were soon filled with books. A cupboard held plates and glasses and a few bottles of wine. The desk Javert purchased was large and sturdy, with roomy drawers. Javert spent a weekend equipping it to his heart’s content until at last everything had found its place. Illuminated by the light of a lamp in the evening, it looked just as he had imagined for so many years: a thoroughly respectable room, a room in which every detail showed the importance of his work and the care Javert devoted to it. This was a place where he’d be able to spend long evenings working without distraction.

And yet, as he turned around, gazing at all the accoutrements of bourgeois respectability he couldn’t have dreamed of in his childhood, surrounded by the dark wood of authority, he found that something was missing.

He should feel content. He should feel triumphant—today, he hadn’t just triumphed against a forger or a cutthroat. Today, he had triumphed at last against the class of criminality itself from which he’d come.

Javert frowned as he turned. His achievements suddenly felt hollow and worthless. Even when he sat down to work at last, he found himself looking up every now and then in displeasure, frustrated by the niggling feeling that something was subtly wrong, that his triumph hadn’t been achieved for some reason that continued to elude him.

A week later, he brought home the bronze inkwell he had taken from Madeleine’s office and placed it on his desk. The figurine of the stallion gleamed in the light of his lamp, and Javert felt something inside him relax. He drew his finger along the arched back and proud neck, then finally set to work once more with a smile.

Perhaps the figurine was what had been missing all along. It made sense; he was so used to working with it on his desk that his new study had seemed empty without it. His desk in the prefecture could do without.

Pleased that he had at last solved the puzzle, Javert worked until it was late. But when he rose at last, extinguished the lamp and went to bed, sleep was hard to find, and he kept staring into the darkness for a long time.

***

Javert’s gaze swept over the men gathered before him as the prefect slowly affixed the medal to Javert’s uniform. Then Gisquet stepped back and applauded, and so did the men.

It was a cold day, the sky overcast, but even so warmth rose up in Javert, and he felt a small smile tug at his lips.

It was a good day indeed. To imagine that a man with his beginnings would one day stand in this place! He had every right to be proud—and he was proud, not merely of the medal, but of the change that was slowly taking place. The men in their neat uniforms, for one thing, were almost unrecognizable from the slovenly ruffians who’d stared at him when he’d first entered the prefecture.

Change was possible. It might be slow and it might be hard—but with enough determination, even the prefecture itself could be changed.

As his gaze moved over the gathered men, lingering for a moment on Rivette’s rapt face, he thought of Jean Valjean. What would he have to say to Javert’s realization?

Javert frowned when he became aware of where his thoughts had taken him once more. What was it about Valjean that allowed this man to worm his way back into Javert’s thoughts not matter what the occasion, so many months after he’d last seen him?

Autumn was coming to a close. Valjean would have been worked hard to help bring in the harvest. By now, the station-house’s small stable would be filled with hay and straw for the coming winter. Valjean would certainly not have spent any time thinking about Javert; his days would consist of hard work, as they should.

Still, Javert was relieved that in his bid to keep public attention from the incident, Regnier hadn’t forced Valjean to appear before a judge once more, to be sentenced to death or a return to the hulks. Javert had kept an eye on the reports from Arras, and in the weeks following the event, there had been no mention of Valjean anywhere.

A flogging and hard work, that was how it would have gone, and although he personally might have even spared Valjean the flogging, Valjean certainly couldn’t complain about such light consequences for his flight.

“Sir?” Rivette said, and Javert found himself abruptly returned to the courtyard.

Rivette held out his hand, smiling at him. There was something about Rivette’s smiles he’d always enjoyed. Not many men had smiled at Javert that way in his life, but from the start, Rivette had offered friendship with that easy-going charm of his—a charm that worked because there was no artifice in it. The uniform gave Rivette a solemnity he’d lacked before, but when he smiled, there was still a hint of that boyish charisma in it.

“Congratulations,” Rivette said warmly. “It reflects well on all of us, sir.”

Javert shook his hand while he allowed his gaze to sweep over the assembled men once more, then slowly nodded. “Thank you, Rivette.”

It did mean something—to receive the medal of honor for his hard work showed that what he’d always believed could indeed become reality. To guard society could be respectable. They were not at all like the men they hunted, and the authority they wielded was indeed deserving of respect.

“Congratulations, Javert,” Gisquet then said, giving him another slow nod.

Although Gisquet wore the uniform of the prefect of police now, his gaze seemed disinterested as it swept over the gathered men. Javert doubted that Gisquet had been pleased by the occasion. With his new position, no doubt Gisquet hated to be reminded where he’d risen from. After all, unlike Javert, he’d never felt any ambition to form the men beneath him into something reputable.

Still, what mattered was that Gisquet wasn’t actively trying to obstruct his efforts. Any other prefect with the ambition to rise further and leave the embarrassing connection to policing behind would surely have been harder to deal with. Gisquet’s disinterest wasn’t at all a deterrent—although even now Javert found it hard to ignore his frustration at the thought that it would be utterly impossible for him to rise to Gisquet’s position, no matter what good he’d be able to achieve in it.

In the evening, Javert once more found himself sitting in Vannier’s wine-shop, sharing a few bottles of wine with a few of his men. He still wasn’t entirely at ease in these situations, for all that they were truly far removed from his early memories of following his fellow guards into disreputable brothels and gambling dens. In any case, so far these rare excursions hadn’t had a detrimental effect on his men. Perhaps Rivette had been right in convincing him to share a glass of wine or two with his agents when the occasion called for it.

It was as good an opportunity as any to observe the men under his command, and it had indeed proved useful to know who was prone to a tongue loosened by drink, and who could hold his own and perform to the high standards Javert expected even after emptying a few bottles of wine with a superior.

Today, though, when Javert found himself paying the bill at the end of the evening with only Rivette still lingering, he thought of the empty study and the cold bedroom that awaited him. As much as he liked his new apartment, he almost regretted that he would no longer walk home to his lodgings with Rivette by his side, and that Rivette would no longer tempt him to while away another hour in their landlady’s sitting room with a glass of brandy by the fire.

He couldn’t say why all of a sudden the thought of his respectable apartment was no longer appealing, when he’d worked so hard and for so long to come to this place.

He should have been content.

Instead, as yellow leaves fell onto the wet pavement, he spent the walk back home thinking of the last autumn spent in Montreuil, the warmth of the cozy study as rain thrummed against the window, and the quiet hours of work at his desk accompanied by the soft sounds of Valjean mending a shirt or polishing his boots or quietly kneeling by his side, his head resting on Javert’s knee as he dozed off after a long day of work.

The timeline of the BBC adaptation isn't quite clear about the exact dates for the change to police uniforms we see in episode 4 versus the un-uniformed prefecture of episode 3, so I've taken a few liberties with the dates here as well to keep the theme of this change happening during Javert's years at the prefecture, as well as Gisquet's rise to prefect and Javert's own promotion to chief inspector. Historically, this first introduction of a uniformed police, the sergents de ville, happened in 1829 under the then-prefect of police Louis-Marie de Belleyme. The description of Rivette's new uniform is taken from the book Ville de Paris: Histoire du corps des gardiens de la paix, and is indeed the uniform we see in the adaptation as well.

Summer had passed, and with it the glorious, long days of sunshine which Valjean had spent out in the fields and meadows, bringing in the last of the hay with Matthieu and his farmhands.

Valjean hadn’t minded the work; it was work he’d done since he’d been old enough to hire himself out, and for as long as the farm’s lands stretched, he was—almost—a free man once more. The old couple that ran the farm for Robert were good people and treated him with a kindness that only increased when they saw that Valjean was well-acquainted with all the labor of running a farm, and that he did the work of three men without complaint.

As summer turned into autumn, the fields of wheat and barley changing from golden eaves swaying in the wind into bare fields of stubble on which rabbits and shrews made their home, the conversation at the Matthieus’ dinner table turned towards plans for the coming planting in the spring and the foals that were expected.

More and more, those plans had come to include Valjean, Matthieu asking Valjean’s opinion and giving his response the same consideration he might have given a son expected to take over the running of the farm after him.

This was the loophole Robert had found for Valjean. A new home, a farm of his own, situated at the end of a path rarely traveled by anyone from the town. As long as Valjean remained here, it would be easy to pretend that he was a free man once more.

The work suited him. He spent his days beneath a blue sky. Even the farmhands who might have been suspicious of him had soon forgotten their doubts and showed him the same respect they’d show any hard worker who didn’t shirk his duties in the stables and on the fields.

Robert had truly done him a great kindness. It was the sort of life Valjean had once dreamed of. He’d sleep in a soft bed every night, he’d never have to worry that he’d be unable to find work, there’d always be enough food—and he didn’t have to fear that in every shadow, an agent of police might be hiding.

Valjean was free—almost. He was still an indentured servant, doing the work given to him by the mayor, and so the state took no interest in him.

But as summer passed and autumn arrived, the days turning from sunlight dancing on leaves of red and gold to gloomy days of incessant rain that kept them all trapped in the stables and the house, Valjean found himself spending more and more of his nights clutching his old Bible, trying to turn his thoughts to prayer, and yet finding no relief from the emptiness that seemed to stretch before him.

Robert’s frequent visits always brought joy to the household, but now Valjean found his heart clench when he observed the Matthieus gathered around the table with Robert. How happy they all were for him.

He knew that there was no reason for why he shouldn’t be happy, now that he had regained as much freedom as a man with his past could expect. Yet as the days turned darker, and as there was less and less menial work to distract himself with, his thoughts turned dark as well, and he began to dread Robert’s visits for the guilt they brought.

After all Robert had done for him, after everything he’d risked, Valjean couldn’t even bring himself to be grateful. Any other man in his position would be happy—yet Valjean, kneeling before his bed at night, could find no peace even now. Robert’s hand coming to rest on his arm during a meal while he laughed at the story Matthieu told woke different memories—memories of a time when, as unhappy as Valjean had thought he was, at least he hadn’t found himself constantly tormented by his own mind.

Maybe Javert had been right, he thought bitterly, clenching his hand until his nails dug into his palm, the pain affording him a blinding flash of clarity and the memory of Javert’s hand coming to rest on his own, unfurling his fingers.

Don’t, Javert’s voice demanded in his head, and Valjean’s bitter laugh turned into a sob.

He pressed his hands against his face, his eyes burning with tears, aching helplessly for what felt like an easier time now—a time when he hadn’t felt so utterly lost. At least while he’d been in Javert’s power, he hadn’t spent every waking moment tormented by the knowledge that he should be happy and grateful for what had been done for him.

***

“Are you certain this is what you want?” Robert gazed up at him, and Valjean felt a new stab of guilt in his heart. “I’d never keep you against your will—but in Paris, you’ll have to be careful. Even with the letter I gave you—”

Valjean touched his hand to where he carried the letter. “I’ll be careful,” he told Robert with a small smile. “Aren’t I always?”

They both knew it wasn’t true, but Robert let it pass with another sad look.

“I’m sorry,” Valjean said. “I know you worked hard to give me a new home, but... I think this is for the best.”

“If you think that you’ll be happier in Paris, you must go.” Robert bravely tried to smile at him, but failed. “Give my regards to Fantine. She will be happy to see you again.”

“I will,” Valjean said softly. “She found work near the convent. It will be good to see her and Cosette.” 

He left Robert like that, riding away from the promise of happiness with a feeling of both dread and a terrible relief on an overcast autumn day. He didn’t know what was waiting for him, but as faithful Doré made his way past barren fields and desolate forests beneath low-hanging clouds, Valjean breathed in deeply. The gloom of these late autumn days seemed a lighter load to bear than the light and cheer of the Matthieus’ warm kitchen.

Robert had made certain that Valjean was well-dressed for the new life that awaited him in Paris. On the fine Spanish gelding with the rare coat of gold, he looked like a gentleman out for a ride in the country. It was as easy for him to travel as it had been when he had still been Madeleine, the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer. No agents of police questioned him, no magistrates demanded to see his passport, and when Doré at last strode through the streets of Paris, ears curiously pricked forward, Valjean had not once been forced to resort to the letter he carried in his coat.

Paris was a disorientating crowd of faces and bodies, stalls and vendors, people crowding around him in such numbers that Valjean felt the weight on his shoulders lift further.

A man could easily vanish in such a crowd. If he wanted, he could shed the good clothes, the fine horse and Robert’s letter and emerge an hour later in workingman’s clothes, with a new name and a new passport, to spend what remained of his life within this city without ever hearing the name Jean Valjean again.

Doré snorted and shook his head, as if he knew what Valjean was thinking. Valjean ran a soothing hand down his neck as he guided him towards a larger boulevard.

He’d be a fool to discard the gift he’d been given. In Paris, where no one knew his name, he’d be as free as he could be while still having the protection of Robert and his letter to fall back on. Furthermore, Doré had been a gift from Robert, too. How could he leave him behind?

“Don’t worry,” he said in a low voice. “You and me, we’ll find a place here. I won’t let them sell you again.”

Just then, Doré’s head reared up and he whinnied—the warm, familiar sound with which he’d always greeted Valjean.

Surprised, Valjean craned his head, his heart suddenly racing. His first thought was Javert. Yet no matter where Valjean looked, he couldn’t find a trace of him in the rush of carts, carriages and riders that swept along the broad boulevard with the irresistible force of the tide.

“What is it?” Valjean said, loosening the reins.

Doré eagerly moved forward—only to find his way blocked by another carriage, drawn by four white horses. By the time the carriage had passed and Valjean could thread his way into the crowds, whomever Doré had spied had to be long gone, although for a moment, Valjean thought he’d spied a glimpse of Noiraude ahead of them on the boulevard.

The horse had been too far away for him to be certain of it, and there were too many carriages and riders in their way to get a good look. When he finally reached the spot where he’d first seen the horse, it had vanished, although by this point Valjean was certain that he’d been mistaken. The horse had drawn a cart, whereas Noiraude was a saddle-horse. Furthermore, she’d been sold for a tidy sum to an officer of the garrison in Montreuil, whereas the horse he’d seen for a heartbeat had a neglected appearance and moved slowly, head low and back sunken.

No matter how much Valjean turned, he could see no sign of the cart now. If anything, the traffic was even worse here, more and more carriages and riders passing their way.

“You must have been mistaken,” Valjean murmured to Doré.

Although he kept searching the crowd curiously as they continued, he could find no sign of the bay mare—nor of Javert.

What would Javert say if he were to see him again?

He shouldn’t hope for an encounter. Nothing good would come of it. Even though Valjean had the protection of Robert’s letter, he knew that Javert wouldn’t approve to find him like this, moving through Paris like a free man.

Still. Even knowing that any encounter would be dangerous for him, Valjean couldn’t help but study the faces of the uniformed agents of police he passed. Although he told himself that it was an old habit born from caution, every time Javert failed to materialize, there was a twinge in his heart.

***

The convent into which Sister Simplice had moved was situated in a quiet quarter. Valjean had taken a room in a small inn nearby, and while Doré was contentedly settling in with his oats in the inn’s stable, Valjean made his way towards a shop situated two streets away from the convent.

From the outside, the shop made a friendly appearance. The sign gently swinging in the wind was freshly painted, the windows clean, bolts of brightly colored cloth arranged inside.

As Valjean looked in through the windows, he could see a young woman with several bolts of fabric beneath her arm bend over one such stack to rearrange it. When she straightened afterward, she turned towards the window, and Valjean smiled when he recognized Fantine.

She’d written him weeks ago to tell him that Sister Simplice had helped her to find work in one of the shops that delivered to the convent the things the sisters could not produce themselves. She looked... content, he thought to his surprise, watching as she raised a hand to brush a strand of hair out of her eyes, then turn back, smiling, to talk to an older woman behind the counter.

This was not at all the Fantine he remembered from her time in the factory in Montreuil—she’d been shy then, quietly doing her work with the other women. Her time as an indentured servant had changed her. There was a new confidence in her—a hardness Valjean recognized from their escape in Montfermeil. Fantine had been bruised by life, but her wounds had healed, and she’d come out on the other side stronger.

Contemplating that thought, he found himself hesitating all of a sudden. What good was his visit going to do her? She’d found work—respectable work. She was building a new life for herself and her daughter.

Fantine had washed away her past with a year of hard work. She had the chance to begin anew. Yet would she be able to keep her work if the shop’s owner found out that she was close to a convict?

Perhaps he shouldn’t have come.

At that moment, Fantine looked up and spotted him standing outside the window. A smile lit her face, and she came running out towards him before he could do anything.

“Valjean!” she said breathlessly, her face lit by a brilliant smile. “It’s you! What are you doing here?”

A heartbeat later, her face fell and she hurriedly looked around—wondering, no doubt, whether she’d given anything away by using his real name. She had to think that he’d run again, and Valjean hastened to reassure her.

“I’m working for Robert now,” he said. “He sent me to work in Paris.”

“Truly?” Fantine said. “But that’s wonderful! Surely there’s no one to watch you here? As long as you can avoid Javert, that is. I doubt he’d be happy to find you here. He returned the things those inn-keepers stole a while ago, but fortunately I haven’t seen him since.”

“Javert…” Valjean was shocked by the sudden swell of emotion in his chest. Desperately, he fought it back. He truly couldn’t afford to run into him. Not now, when he was so close to leaving the shackles of his past behind.

Even so, he couldn’t resist to guiltily ask for more. “How is he?”

Fantine scrunched her nose. “Doing well. Would you believe it, he is chief inspector of the prefecture now—he came to bring back my clothes himself, in a carriage and uniform and everything. I could barely believe it. He was almost... nice about it?”

She smiled wryly. “He didn’t insult me, in any case. And he asked about you.”

“About me?”

The thought should fill him with alarm, but for a moment, all Valjean could see was the inside of the carriage rumbling inexorably towards Montreuil, the piglets in their cage, Javert’s unraveling cravat, and the way Javert had looked at him when their lips had parted.

“He wanted to know if you were doing well.” Fantine gave him another searching look. “He seemed... different. Almost agreeable. Who knows, maybe now that he has all those inspectors to order around the prefecture, he no longer cares about small fish like us.”

Valjean forced himself to smile. “That’s probably it. What did you tell him?”

“That you wrote to me, and that you were well—busy with the harvest. That seemed to satisfy him.” She hesitated a moment. “And then he—he gave me his card. In case I ever had need of contacting him.”

She reached into her pocket and took it out. Valjean took it from her hand, turning it in his fingers as he tried to ignore the way his heart contracted at the familiar sight of Javert’s elegant letters.

He’d given Fantine his address—not the Rue de Jérusalem, but his own address.

Valjean exhaled at the sudden, desperate desire to see him again. He couldn’t even say why. What good would it do?

Perhaps he merely wanted Javert to tell him what he knew was true in his heart: that he didn’t deserve this sort of freedom. That he had no right to lead a happy life in Paris after everything he’d done. That no matter what he tried to tell himself, he couldn’t run away from the past—it had been burned into his skin by the lash and the coin.

Valjean swallowed and returned the card to Fantine. “I think he means it. Keep it. If Thénardier ever shows his head again—or if there is some other sort of trouble—go to him. No matter what Javert says, if you are stubborn, he’ll believe it. He’ll help you.”

“I’ve been wondering,” Fantine said slowly, “if he gave it to me in the hope that I’d come tell him about you...”

Valjean forced himself to smile. “He’s probably still worried I might run off again. But come, tell me all about what you’ve done. How is Cosette?”

“You think you can just drag me away from my work like that?” Fantine laughed, although she proceeded to pull him inside the shop, where the woman behind the counter had been curiously watching them.

It turned out that Fantine had already told her all about how Valjean had rescued her from a villainous innkeeper, and so Valjean found himself treated with more respect than he was used to these days.

Fantine seemed utterly at home in the shop, although she had only worked there for a few weeks. Yet she was laughing freely with the proprietress. And, after she’d retold the story of how Valjean had found her locked into a crumbling tower in the forest to his great embarrassment and the older woman’s great delight, she was shooed off by the woman to show Valjean around their quarter.

“Ignore her,” Fantine said in embarrassment when they were walking down a street that led towards the convent. “It’s just that she worries about me—there’s Cosette, and I’m still young, and she thinks—well. If she had a son, I have no doubt she’d send me off to go walking in the park with him every afternoon. In any case, the work is fine—much better than the work I had to do in Montreuil, after your factory. She says it helps that I already have an understanding of the fabrics she sells, though to tell the truth, I never was much of a seamstress. But she has me help around the shop, and with the arithmetics Sister Margaret taught me and your lessons, there’s a lot I can do, and a lot I can still learn. For now, I have no interest in going on walks with anyone.”

Fantine truly was doing well. It was a great relief to see her so content. Valjean remembered very well how miserable she’d been in Montreuil. Today, her face was animated, and her eyes gleamed when she talked about the shop and how Madame Martineau was letting her help with the bookkeeping and orders.

Perhaps he’d been wrong. Perhaps it was possible to find a new life in this place—even for a man like him.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Autumn passed, and along with the leaves falling from trees and turning streets near Petit-Picpus red and gold, Valjean began to settle into his new life.

Every Sunday, Cosette, who had entered the convent’s school thanks to Sister Simplice, left the walls behind which she remained during the week and spent the day with her mother. And every Sunday, Valjean would join them, and together they would take a fiacre to the Luxembourg, where they walked if the weather was good.

Cosette as well had changed since Valjean had last seen here. As summer had turned into autumn, Cosette had lost the hunted look of an animal caught in a trap. Instead of dusty rags, she now wore the simple black dress of the convent school, her hair combed until it shone in the sunlight. When she’d first seen Valjean again, she’d run towards him with a smile, and Valjean had felt struck to the core as he watched her small hand take his without fear.

“You’ve come back,” she said happily.

Helplessly, Valjean found himself smiling down at her, his heart aching anew as he thought of her bruised face and reddened little hands in his when he’d carried her from the tower near Montfermeil. Back then, the child had looked out at the world with the fearful wariness of a prisoner who knew that the guards’ cudgels could fall at the slightest provocation. Now, she ran through the Luxembourg, full of laughter and delight, trying to catch every falling leaf and exploring every pavilion and statue.

Valjean had never been able to find Petit-Gervais again, no matter how many of the Savoyards passing through Montreuil he’d asked. But here was one child he had saved. Perhaps that was enough.

One day late in autumn, when the branches of the trees in the Luxembourg were bare already and they’d returned from their walk to warm themselves with large bowls of hot chocolate and milk in a small crémerie before taking a fiacre back, Fantine reached out to rest her hand on Valjean’s.

“This morning, when I collected Cosette from the convent,” she said softly, “I spoke to Sister Simplice. She told me that their old gardener had left the convent, and that his hut stands empty. Come spring, there will be much planting that needs to be done. And no men are allowed behind the convent walls—save for a gardener. If you wanted, Sister Simplice would talk to the Mother Superior for you...”

Valjean had not expected those words. He’d never truly considered the idea, although they had often walked past the convent, and he knew how high those walls were. Not unlike the walls he had once scaled—but unlike those walls in the past, they would not imprison but protect from the outside world. No man could enter the convent. No police agent would ever find him there.

“Think about it,” she then said. “She doesn’t need an answer right away.”

The thought was appealing, Valjean couldn’t deny it. He hadn’t felt safe in a very long time now—he might have Robert’s letter to protect him, but even so he could not pass a police agent without his heart clenching and his breath speeding up. He had recovered the fortune he’d hidden in the forest, but hadn’t done anything with it for fear that it might arouse unwanted attention.

Sometimes, back in Montreuil, when he’d thought about what he might do, he had imagined that he might start a new business in Paris. He would give work to many people—foremost Fantine—and she and Cosette would never have to feel hunger or cold again.

Instead, he’d arrived in Paris to find that Fantine had done as she’d promised she would. Where Valjean had once learned to read with the goal of using his new knowledge to exact revenge on society, Fantine had used her lessons to try and secure a better life for her daughter. And she had succeeded—without his help, she had found work that suited her, and the convent had taken in Cosette to give her an education that was far above what Fantine could have provided on her own. Fantine wasn’t rich, but she had work, food and shelter. She seemed happy.

Perhaps she didn’t need him. The thought was a relief, although it brought guilt with it as well—would he ever be able to repay her for what he’d done to her?

Still, if he were to vanish now, if the police should arrest him once more, he wouldn’t need to worry about her and Cosette.

Perhaps he could truly accept the offer. In the convent, he’d see Cosette every day, and he’d be able to leave now and then and visit Fantine. Sister Simplice already knew who he was; he wouldn’t be forced to carry the weight of his secrets.

It was a seductive thought—at long last, perhaps he would indeed be able to relieve himself of the burden that had been weighing him down even after Robert had brought him to his farm. 

It would be a simple life in the convent, but that did not frighten him. To work beneath a blue sky, to prune and plant and harvest and weed was merely a return to the earlier years of his life—and he would have a bed, and food, and live without chains or fear of the cudgel. Dimly, he could still remember the garden that had grown behind the bishop’s house in Digne; he had stolen away through it in the night like the thief he was. Would not that bishop be pleased with him to see him spend his remaining years in a place of worship, finally finding the peace he had so longed for?

“I will think about it,” he told Fantine and smiled.

It was on their return after their excursion to the Luxembourg that the carriage they had taken ran into trouble. Perhaps the coachman had taken a turn too closely; when they rumbled over the cobblestone, all of a sudden there was a crack. The carriage swayed and came to a halt. The coachman cursed, and when Valjean opened the door to see what had happened, he saw that one of the wheels had splintered.

Earlier, it had rained; the streets were still wet, but the rain had slowed to a drizzle. Valjean looked around. They were not far from Petit-Picpus; it was a quiet street where it would be difficult to quickly find another carriage, and so he paid the coachman and lifted Cosette up into his arms.

“I know a shortcut,” he told Fantine. “It’s not far from here if we take that alley.”

Between a house and a large, walled garden, a narrow alley opened. A rivulet of dirty rainwater ran through it. The alley was steep, lined at one side by the walls of houses and on the other by the moss-covered, crumbling wall bordering the garden.

The alley would lead them right to the top of the hill, and when they descended through one of the small streets on the other side, they’d emerge only a few streets from the convent.

Fantine pulled up her skirts and followed him while Cosette wrapped her arms around his neck. The ascent was steep and the stones were wet, so he walked slowly. After a few minutes, Cosette wriggled free of his grasp.

“I can walk,” she said and laughed. “Look, I’m faster than you!”

As soon as he had set her down, she began to run ahead.

“Be careful,” Fantine called out. “You’ll slip.”

Cosette paused once to admire a cluster of small flowers growing from a crack in the wall to their right, then continued to run towards the top of the little hill.

The sun was sinking towards the horizon. It would not be long until sunset now. As Valjean and Fantine followed Cosette through the alley, the sun reached a spot where it hung perfectly framed between the walls bordering the alley on each side, the top of the hill they were walking towards bathed in bright light.

The sun was so strong it was difficult to see. Valjean shielded his eyes, seeing that Cosette was still skipping merrily ahead, jumping over puddles in her little boots and pausing to inspect the overgrown wall every now and then.

In the distance, Valjean now heard a strange sound. There was a creaking of wood and a clank of metal. It was so soft he could barely make it out, but all of a sudden, terror griped his heart and he hastened his steps without even realizing.

“Not so fast,” Fantine said behind him, laughing like Cosette, but Valjean barely heard her words.

As if pulled forward by a magnet, he found himself approaching the top of the hill. He could barely make out the alley in front of him; the sun was so bright that he moved forward with his eyes half-closed, like a man sleepwalking.

He could no longer see Cosette. Instead, the sounds had increased in volume. He could make out voices now, hoarse and authoritative, and the sounds of many feet.

“Cosette,” he said, then louder, panicked, “Cosette!” when there was no answer.

Without regard for Fantine, he began to run. The light blinded him; all of a sudden, he found himself back in the quarries of yellow stone, choking on dust and burning beneath a harsh sun, his back aching from the lash as he took step after step, knowing that there was no rest, no water, just the cudgel if he faltered.

When he burst out at the other side of the alley, the sight that awaited him stopped him in his steps as if he’d run into a wall.

From his right, a column of men approached. It was a miserable sight, the men wretched and clothed in rags, all of them chained to each other. Guards forced the men onward, cudgels ready in their hands. As Valjean watched, his heart racing so fast he thought it was going to burst, one of them raised his hand and let the cudgel come down onto the back of a man who had stumbled.

Something made a small, frightened noise nearby, and all of a sudden Valjean remembered once more where he was.

“Cosette!” he said, reaching out to hastily draw her against him.

She’d stood pressed against the wall, watching the chain-gang approach with wide, terrified eyes; now she pressed herself against him, trembling as she once had trembled when they’d fled through the forest, trying to escape from Thénardier.

“What are they?” Her frightened voice cut him like a blade. “Are they... are they still men?”

“They are convicts,” Valjean heard himself say hoarsely.

Cosette hid her face against his neck. “I don’t want them to look at me. I want to go home,” she said, and Valjean could feel the wetness of her tears against his skin.

Dazed, he stood staring at the sight before him with unseeing eyes as the chain-gang passed. One of the guards, on catching sight of Valjean, gave him a respectful nod—taking him, no doubt, for one of those bourgeois who would come out to watch the chain-gang pass just as one might go to the theater or the opera.

A moment later, Fantine caught up with them. Valjean could barely understand what she said, but he let her take Cosette from his arms and soothe her, still staring in the direction the chain-gang had taken.

“Are you all right?” Fantine asked him at last. “Valjean—you look as pale as a ghost.”

Valjean swallowed and forced himself to nod.

“I’m sorry,” he said tonelessly. “I didn’t think—I should have found another carriage. We would—”

“It doesn’t matter.” Gently but firmly, she took hold of his arm. “Come. I know where we are now. You were right; we’ll be home in a few minutes. Come, don’t cry, Cosette. Those poor men. No one deserves that.”

“No one?” With a bitter smile, Valjean finally found the strength to turn away from where the chain-gang had vanished.

“No one,” she repeated firmly. “I wouldn’t wish it even on Thénardier.”

Valjean looked away. He remained silent as they crossed the remaining streets that at last brought them back to the shop above which Fantine lived.

“Come inside,” Fantine said with a searching look. “Madame Martineau will have coffee for you. It’s getting dark; take a carriage back to your room after you’ve warmed yourself up.”

Valjean shook his head. He knew she meant it kindly, but his stomach was still twisting, his chest aching. He felt strangely breathless, his ears ringing. He couldn’t bear to stand still; if he sat down and tried to listen to Fantine, he knew that before long, the maelstrom inside him would overwhelm him and pull him down into the abyss.

“I’ll walk. It’ll do me good.”

Fantine reached out and grabbed hold of his arm before he could flee. “Don’t,” she said. “Please. Come inside for an hour—”


“I said no!”


He found that he’d taken a step backwards, his arm ripped free from Fantine’s grasp. His words were still echoing in his ears while she stared at him in shocked surprise.

His heart still pounding, he realized all of a sudden what he’d done—he’d shouted at Fantine, who’d only wanted to help him. He’d lashed out again, the way a trapped animal did, acting without thinking—just as Javert had always told him.

Despair rose up inside him as he turned away from her. “I’m sorry,” he said, choking on the words. “I’m sorry, Fantine.”

Then he ran before she could reach out for him.

The sun had set. The streets were dark and deserted. It had begun to rain again, although he barely felt the water soaking into his clothes as he ran.

Streetlamps passed, brief, blurred halos of light that couldn’t illuminate the terrible darkness that had surged inside him once more. He’d run from it for so long—but it had always been there, deep inside his heart, just waiting for a moment of weakness to break free.

He’d lashed out at Fantine, anger and terror exploding out of him as if he’d never left the prison hulks behind. He’d spent nineteen years lost in that haze of darkness. The bishop had lit that gloom—a brief light that had suddenly let him see the man he’d become. For so long he’d struggled to leave that man behind, to force back the darkness within him—but it rose again and again.

Valjean sobbed as he ran without direction. Rain kept pouring down onto deserted streets until he was soaked to the bone, aimlessly following dark, twisting streets until he was utterly lost. And even then, when he was out of breath, his legs aching as much as his heart, he couldn’t stop reliving those moments—the chained men, their groans of pain, the fall of the guard’s cudgel, Cosette’s tears.


Are they still men?


He clenched his hands into fists, pressed them against his eyes as he blindly stumbled forward, trying to hold back the agonizing sob that wanted to break free.

She’d trembled and cried, flinching back from the sight of the chain-gang as she’d flinched back from the Thénardiers.

This was who he was—a monster, a thief, the man who’d been responsible for everything that had happened to Fantine in Montreuil. How could he have imagined even for one moment that he had the right to be a part of their life, to enter a convent, to insinuate himself into their happiness—he, a convict, who could ruin their reputation so easily? All it would take was for one single person to recognize him, to point at him and cry out Jean Valjean...

He came to a stop in the middle of a quiet street, rain and tears dripping down his face, his chest heaving as he struggled for breath.

When he looked up, he saw that he was standing in front of a house. There was no one else out in the street as the rain continued to pour down. Several windows were lit. He stared up at them, unseeing, remaining motionless as the rain continued to fall as heavily as before, the street lamps flickering.

His chest ached. He couldn’t breathe. He wanted to run, to get as far away as possible, to find a place to shed his name and his past, to tear himself apart until no one would ever recognize the pieces of him.

At the same time, he couldn’t look away from the handful of brightly lit windows, aching to take a step forward towards that beckoning door.

Valjean stood in the rain, struggling to breathe, barely noting the tears that continued to run down his face together with the heavy raindrops. His coat and shirt were plastered to his skin, his hair sticking to his face. Water kept dripping from him. An hour might have passed. His body had begun to shiver, but he barely noticed it. He still stood gazing at the illuminated windows.

Then the door opened and a man came walking towards him through the rain. When he came closer, Valjean recognized the familiar features of Javert without surprise. Something seemed to have at last fallen into place. When Javert halted before him, Valjean met his eyes.

Then, there on the deserted street in the pouring rain, Valjean fell to his knees.

This scene is one I've been imagining from when I first began writing this - Valjean returning to Javert in the pouring rain, and instead of Valjean shouting desperately for Javert and Javert already gone towards the Seine, this time they are reunited, and they both know how much they want each other. It's been a long journey.

Javert stared at the man before him, still barely able to believe that it was truly him.

Jean Valjean.

Rain came pouring down on both of them. The cobblestones beneath his feet gleamed black. Even with the illumination of the streetlamps, it was difficult to make out Valjean’s features—but Javert had known, from the first moment he’d looked out of his window.

What had brought Valjean here? He should be in Montreuil. Had he run again?

Nevertheless, when Valjean had gazed at him, lashes wet and that beautiful, tormented mouth he remembered so well tightening with helpless anguish, all of Javert’s concerns had faded away.

And when Valjean had dropped to his knees, something had at last fallen into place, the world that had shifted off its axis at last returned to its rightful state, warmth streaming through Javert even with the cold November rain that soaked into the heavy wool of his greatcoat.

Javert looked down at Valjean and smiled despite himself. A moment later, he reached out and hastily pulled him to his feet. “Don’t be a fool. What will the neighbors think?”

Valjean was shivering, but didn’t even seem to realize the state he was in when he let Javert drag him inside without protest. The porter had been content to remain inside by the stove with his bottle of wine, and now Javert was doubly glad of it. He wasn’t certain how to explain the presence of a rain-soaked Jean Valjean who seemed unable to utter a word, gazing at him in despair, his eyes wide as if shocked by a calamity.

It wasn’t an unfamiliar sight, Javert thought, but whatever it was, it could be dealt with in the morning. For now, he wanted Valjean out of those clothes that made him tremble violently.

“You’ll be the death of me some day,” he muttered as he began stripping Valjean. “If you knew my address, why did you not knock on the door? How long have you been out there in the rain?”

He didn’t ask what he really wanted to know—what the hell are you doing here in Paris?—but he feared he already knew the answer to that, and he had no desire to deal with it tonight. Tomorrow, perhaps, he might be able to think of a way to save Valjean from the consequences of his thoughtless actions once more. Tonight, he wanted Valjean out of his soaking wet clothes before he caught his death.

Valjean didn’t react. He stared at the floor before Javert, water incessantly dripping onto the floorboards, allowing Javert to strip him without speaking a word.

As he spread the drenched clothes over a chair near the stove, Javert couldn’t help but realize that the clothes were of a good quality—far better than the old workingman clothes Valjean had worn in Montreuil. Had he stolen them to facilitate his second escape?

Javert knew that he should be outraged, but he couldn’t muster the energy to confront Valjean about it—not with the sight Valjean was, bedraggled and despondent. There’d be time tomorrow to untangle whatever mess Valjean had got himself into this time.

He rubbed Valjean dry as best as he could, then pushed him into his bedroom and made him crawl beneath the covers.

“Is there anything I need to do today?” he asked. “Do I have to go to the prefecture to try and deal with whatever it is you’ve done?”

Voicelessly, Valjean shook his head, his eyes still wide and dark, his cheeks still wet.

It wasn’t just the rain, Javert realized all of a sudden. Valjean had been crying.

“Then we’ll deal with it tomorrow,” Javert murmured, suddenly no longer trusting his voice.

He turned away from the bed to add wood to the stove, then poured brandy into a glass and brought it back to the bed—only to find that Valjean’s eyes had closed at last, tear tracks still glistening on his cheeks, although his body had relaxed into sleep.

Javert watched him for a long time, unable to help the smile that kept tugging at his lips.

There were a hundred reasons for why he should be concerned. Just a year or two ago, he’d have been convinced that Valjean had committed some terrible crime. Even now, with the unshakable belief inside him that whatever it was Valjean had done, it wouldn’t be anything worth the hulks, he knew without a doubt that Valjean was at the very least a man who had fled indenture—not once, but twice now. By all rights Javert should have put cuffs on him and taken him right to the next station-house.

Instead, Javert found himself sitting in a chair next to his bed for two hours, sipping the brandy and watching Valjean sleep while the fire crackled inside the stove.

Valjean hadn’t changed much. His hair had grown long enough to curl—if he hadn’t stood in the rain for hours, it would have been an entirely respectable length. Now, out of the rain, and after Javert’s vigorous toweling, it stuck up in all directions so that Javert had to fight the urge to reach out and comb it into order with his fingers.

Valjean’s sleep, at least, seemed easy and free of nightmares—the sleep of an exhausted man. Valjean had slept just like this whenever Javert had been forced to discipline him, his hand or his belt or the riding crop leaving Valjean pliant and exhausted.

What could have driven him to such a state?

Javert turned to look towards the window. Rain was still falling down incessantly. How long had Valjean been running through the rain? How had he even known to find Javert? What had happened to make him seek out Javert’s home, when by all appearances he’d succeeded in breaking free of his chains once more?

Javert frowned, raising his glass again to drink the last of his brandy, his gaze coming to rest on Valjean once more, asleep in his bed.

He knew he should be worried. There were a hundred reasons for it. But with Jean Valjean asleep in his bed right here, all he could feel was a deep sense of relief and gratitude.

Jean Valjean had come home to him at last.

He rose and put his glass away, then began to strip. Carefully, he folded and hung his clothes; just as carefully, he avoided interrogating that eerie sense of rightness.

Jean Valjean wasn’t his. He’d never been.

But perhaps, just for tonight, Javert could give in to the warmth that had spread inside him. Whatever had sent Valjean here in such a state could be dealt with tomorrow.

***

In the middle of the night, Javert woke. He often woke during the night, wasting an hour tossing and turning until he finally managed to fall back asleep. But tonight, the sensation was different—he didn’t feel wide awake, frustration gnawing at him even before he’d opened his eyes.

Instead, he felt strangely content, warm and comfortable while rain was still lightly pattering against his window. A warm body slept nestled against him, slow, regular breathing audible next to him, the sensation of breath against his cheek and bare skin against his own.

Silver moonlight glinted on Valjean’s eyelashes. In sleep, his features had relaxed. His head rested on Javert’s pillow, his breath regular and deep. When Javert turned slowly and propped himself up on his elbow to gaze at him, Valjean shifted slightly towards him but remained deeply asleep.

Jean Valjean... Here, in his bed.

How many nights had Javert lain awake, thinking of this very man? Even now, it felt like a dream to have him here next to him, warm and alive. Just like that, it seemed as if the many months they’d spent apart had fallen away, as if they were still in Montreuil, as if Javert would wake to this sight every morning of his life.

Troubled, Javert reached out, gently brushing Valjean’s unruly hair away from his face.

Valjean didn’t stir. Javert’s fingers threaded through his locks, lingering as Javert watched him sleep bathed in soft moonlight.

What troubled him the most was how right it felt to have Valjean here. He couldn’t keep him. It was impossible.

But he wanted him here. He wanted him the way he’d had him before. He wanted it more than he’d wanted the promotion.

“What have you done to me?” he murmured into the silence of the room.

There was no answer. Valjean continued to sleep. But Javert watched him for a long while, uncertain of this thing that had spread its roots inside him without him even realizing it, and deeply troubled—not by Valjean’s escape, but by his lack of concern about it when at last, everything seemed to be as it should be.

***

Warmth surrounded him. In his dream, Javert was in his old bed back in Montreuil once more, waking to bright sunlight and a seductive, wet heat surrounding his cock.

Quietly, he moaned in approval, keeping his eyes closed to linger in the dream. A soft tongue swirled around him, then that mesmerizing mouth sank down on him once more until he could feel himself swallowed into Valjean’s throat, the tight, hot massage of it dragging another moan from him.

Javert reached down to bury his fingers in Valjean’s hair, holding him in place as his hips lazily pumped towards him. Valjean’s lips were burning hot as they slid up and down Javert’s cock, his throat stretching around him, unresisting and welcoming as Javert kept sliding deep into his throat, knowing that he’d wake any moment but he was so close, so close...

Then orgasm washed through him and he relaxed back into the mattress, panting in satisfaction. For a few, precious moments he knew nothing but the bliss of feeling his release swallowed down by an eager, worshipful mouth.

A minute later, when Javert was beginning to soften, his racing heart slowing at last, he realized that his fingers were still buried in soft hair, the hot mouth that gently cradled his softening cock undeniably real.

Javert opened his eyes. It hadn’t been a dream.

Jean Valjean was right there in bed with him, mouth red and wet and stretched wide around his cock, only releasing him with reluctance when Javert tightened his grip on his hair and tugged him upwards.

Javert watched as Valjean swallowed again, his tongue swiping over his bottom lip. The sight was another to send another twinge of desire through Javert—but he was sated, and it was easy to ignore it for the moment.

Instead, he made Valjean settle on the bed next to him once more, ignoring as well the way Valjean’s cock slid eagerly across his stomach, leaving a damp trail.

“You didn’t have to do that,” Javert said at last.

Valjean gazed at him. “I slept in your bed tonight.”

Javert exhaled, unable to keep from smiling as he reached out once again and cupped Valjean’s cheek.

“I didn’t set any rules last night. I took you in because you were a mess. Because I couldn’t very well let you run around like that.”

Valjean was still watching him quietly. “I wanted to,” he said. Then he swallowed again. A moment later, he leaned forward and tentatively brushed his lips against Javert’s.

Javert groaned. His hand slid back into Valjean’s hair, holding him in place as he deepened the kiss, tasting himself on his tongue, Valjean eagerly pressing against him. By the time Javert drew back, he was panting for breath once more, Valjean’s eyes wide and dazed.

Javert glanced down at Valjean’s pitifully hard cock. “I’m not going to touch that until I know what’s going on with you.”

He couldn’t help but feel regret. He knew what the answer would be. Valjean had escaped from indenture once more—had come to Paris, presumably because Fantine had yet again managed to find trouble for herself. And in the end, Valjean had come to Javert as he always did, and Javert would be left with the task to bring order to Valjean’s rebellious nature.

It was his duty, in the end. It shouldn’t trouble him.

But it did trouble him, because he didn’t want to let go of Valjean. Because just for one night, he’d allowed himself to pretend that Valjean was his again—and he found that having had Valjean where he belonged once more, it was almost impossible to let go of him.

With a deep sigh, Javert sat up in bed, looking down at Valjean. “Speak,” he said. “How did you get to Paris? And what the hell were you doing in front of my door last night?”

“I didn’t run away. That’s what you’re thinking, isn’t it? But Robert is mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer now. I’m in Paris on his business. I have a letter to prove it.”

Valjean laughed, but it was a despairing sound—not triumphant at all, as it should have been, given that he had at last managed to find a loophole to wiggle through.

“I’ve rented a room. I visit Fantine from time to time—she has found work with good people, and Cosette has been taken in by the convent school. Every Sunday, I take them for a walk in the Luxembourg.”

Javert frowned at the picture Valjean painted. “That has worked out very well for you, hasn’t it? You finally have everything you wanted. So what brings you here? You weren’t trying to show off your new-found freedom last night.”

Valjean looked away from him. He didn’t look happy at all. He looked smaller than he’d been, his shoulders hunched. After a moment, he slipped out of the bed before Javert could grab hold of him, pacing back and forth for a moment, hands pressed against his eyes before at last, with a despairing sound, he threw himself to his knees before Javert’s bed.

“I don’t!” he said hoarsely. “I should have everything I want, but I don’t. Robert’s done so much for me, but I can’t even be grateful. It’s not—it’s not what I deserve.”

“It’s not what you need.” Javert’s eyes narrowed as he reached out and tightened his hand in Valjean’s hair, pulling him up by it, roughly enough to hurt.

The look Valjean gave him was more grateful than pained, enough to show Javert that he was on the right path.

“I can’t do it,” Valjean said. “They don’t understand—even Fantine doesn’t. She doesn’t know me. But you do. You always did. Yesterday, we ran into the chain-gang. Cosette cried. How could I have thought to taint them with that?”

Javert ignored his story for the moment. “You sold yourself into indenture yourself. You yourself made that deal. I was there. I heard you say it. And I’ve kept my end of the bargain, haven’t I?”

Valjean swallowed thickly and nodded.

“And Robert now thinks he has the right to set you free, to roam around Paris as you like.” Javert felt a faint fury rise up in him, but he was too distracted by the way Valjean’s eyes rested on him, wide and relieved. “I told you, I don’t think you belong in the hulks. But it’s not right that you should be able to do as you please—and in Paris, too! And you know it. You know that you have no right to such freedom. That’s why you came to me.”

Despite Javert’s harsh grip on his hair, Valjean nodded silently.

Javert exhaled, then made an amused sound, his grip relaxing slightly. “How did you even know where to find me? Don’t tell me you went to the prefecture first?”

“Fantine showed me the card you gave her,” Valjean said softly. “I hadn’t planned to come here. I just ran, without thinking.”

“Yes. That sounds like you.” Javert felt his lips twitch again.

“This is where I ended up.” Valjean was still quietly watching him. “A part of me must have known that—”

“You wanted me to take care of your problems. The way I always did.”

Now Valjean’s mouth curved into a small, half-bitter, half-amused. “Wasn’t that what you told me, sir? If I break the rules, come and confess and accept my punishment.”

Valjean swallowed again. A shiver ran through him. Then he bent his head. “Here I am.”

Valjean squeezed his eyes shut, his heart racing as he listened to the silence stretch between them. He was afraid—legally, Robert was still in control of him, but surely, if Javert wanted, if he informed the prefect, Valjean might soon find himself in a cell once more.

Still, it was a distant fear. He had no control over what was going to happen to him now. Just as he had once forced himself go to Arras, he had made himself go to Javert’s house. And now the truth was out at last. He no longer had to keep his secrets.

All that was left was for Javert to decide what to do with him. The thought was strangely comforting. The weight of those choices no longer rested on his own shoulders.

Javert sighed deeply before he rose from the bed. Valjean listened to the sound of his bare feet on the floor.

He could still taste the bitterness of Javert’s release in his mouth. How easy it was to fall back into that old understanding between them. It was comfortable, settling on him like an old coat—the way his life on Robert’s farm had never been. Still, as Valjean waited in silence, doubt rose as well. What had he been thinking, coming to Javert? Javert now had the life he’d always wanted. What use had he for Valjean?

He heard a soft, rustling sound, and when Javert at last stepped in front of him once more, Valjean could see that he had pulled on a beautiful dressing gown—a deep, red silk embroidered in an oriental pattern of golden flowers and exotic birds.

Valjean looked up and took in the view, a sudden warmth spreading inside him when he realized how well he knew Javert in truth.

Javert’s apartment was adequately furnished, with a few small indulgences here and there that his position now allowed him—a sturdy desk of quality wood, shelves filled with books, a cupboard that held a few bottles of wine. Still, for the most part, Javert lived humbly, spending his money on just a few items of good quality instead, like the silken dressing gown, which he was certain to wear for a decade to come.

Yes, they knew each other—better perhaps than anyone else knew them. Surely, despite Javert’s success here in Paris, that was still true.

Valjean’s gaze was drawn back to where the robe gaped open. When Javert moved, Valjean could admire the long, smooth line of his leg, the firm thigh, the shape of his cock, soft now but all the more appealing for how it nestled half-hidden behind the silk, only waiting for a pair of hands to spread Javert’s robe and kiss it awake once more.

He’d done all of those things, and more.

Instead, Valjean waited as Javert seated himself on the bed in front of him. Javert hadn’t told him to rise, and so Valjean remained on his knees, the floor cold against his skin.

Then Javert reached out and grabbed hold of Valjean’s chin once more. Thoughtfully, he gazed at him.

“Jean Valjean. What am I going to do with you?” Javert murmured. Then he sighed deeply, his thumb slowly stroking along Valjean’s bottom lip.

Valjean could hear his heart thudding in his chest as he gazed up at Javert, his earlier fear receding. This was familiar. This was what he’d needed.

Once, back in Montreuil, Javert had seemed to him a harsh cliff against which he threw himself in fury and shame like the ocean itself, waves crashing into granite that couldn’t be washed away, unyielding, merciless, inhuman.

Now, as he looked into Javert’s eyes, Javert’s fingers firm around his chin, Valjean felt nothing but relief. How good it was to know that Javert still stood as straight and firm as he had before. How comforting to see Javert’s granite, and to know that he could throw himself against him again and again, knowing that Javert would neither shatter nor yield.

Javert slowly shook his head. Then he exhaled and leaned forward, kissing Valjean, who found himself gasping and clutching at Javert’s arms as if he were a lifeline. When Javert drew back at last, Valjean was breathless, but still the maelstrom of his mind that had so tormented him yesterday was absent.

“I ran from Fantine,” Valjean said a moment later, shame welling up inside him when he remembered how he’d left her. “She must be very worried. I have to send her a note and apologize.”

Javert inclined his head. “And I want to look at that letter from Robert you mentioned. What the hell did he think he—but never mind. You’re here now. I’ll deal with it. Get up, get dressed, then fetch that letter—No, wait,” he interrupted himself. “I’ll go with you. Otherwise who knows where you might run to next.”

“I wouldn’t run from you, sir,” Valjean said quietly. “I came here, didn’t I?”

He’d made his choice yesterday—or rather, something inside him had made that choice when he’d run through the pouring rain, through dark streets he didn’t know.

He’d made his choice. And now it was for Javert to decide what to do next.

It truly was strangely comforting to be able to abandon himself to Javert once more.

***

“You really said the truth. I didn’t think you were lying, but—”

Javert broke off to study the letter again that declared Valjean to be Robert’s servant, sent to Paris to do business for him, complete with the mayor’s seal and signature.

“What the hell was he thinking? Oh, he planned this well,” Javert said darkly.

Javert was seated in an armchair by his stove. It was dark outside. He’d made Valjean draw the curtain and light the lamp and add wood to the stove, and Valjean had followed his orders, sinking into an old, familiar routine that felt comfortable. Now, he knelt before Javert as Javert read, and although Valjean was faintly worried at what Javert might choose to do with this confession, it was difficult to worry too much when everything felt suddenly right—as if this was how it should have always been.

“How long have you been running around Paris unsupervised?” Javert demanded.

“Six weeks,” Valjean said.

“Six weeks...” Javert slowly shook his head.

Valjean hadn’t dared to imagine what would happen once he found Javert, but he knew that it would mean a surrender of his new-found freedom that Robert had worked so long and so hard for. Still, he’d thought that Javert would be angry—as angry as he’d been that one day in the storm, when Valjean had disregarded his orders and saved an Englishman’s life.

Instead, Javert’s eyes kept returning to him again and again through the day, as if, just like Valjean himself, Javert needed to reassure himself that he wasn’t imagining things, that Valjean had indeed returned to him.

Even now, when faced with the fact that Valjean—a convict, a criminal, a man sentenced to indenture—had found his way to a freedom that wasn’t his to claim, living among ordinary citizens as if he was one of them, Javert looked puzzled, not enraged.

Javert moistened his lip, then looked away for a moment, and all Valjean could think was that Javert seemed shy.

What a bizarre thing to imagine. And yet, as much as it felt that his body had merely settled into an old, familiar routine again, something was different.

Valjean felt content. Valjean felt grateful.

Perhaps it shouldn’t be so strange then that things had changed for Javert as well.

“You came to me. Why?” Javert demanded.

Now it was Valjean’s turn to feel shy. In the light of day, his arrival was a burden he was placing on Javert. What had he been thinking, to simply appear in front of Javert’s door like that?

Then he thought of their last ride in the carriage and the words Javert had spoken, heavy with regret. If I could take you with me, I would.

Valjean drew in a breath.

“If you want me to leave, I will,” he said quietly, although he didn’t know where to go. To Fantine, most probably, to apologize in person, and then...

His mind came up blank. Paris, the one goal he’d clung to for so long, now seemed as wretched a prospect as returning to the hulks. After all, no matter where he went, he’d take the brand of the coin and the burden of his guilt with him.

“But if you don’t want me to leave, sir, then...”

Valjean pleaded with his eyes, uncertain how to put this ache within him into words. There was nowhere else to go. This was the only place where he’d ever felt at peace. There was no one else like Javert—no one who knew him so well and who’d remain standing, hard and harsh like granite, no matter how much Valjean threw himself against him.

“You’ve told me you wish you could take me with you. Now... Now you could.”

Javert drew in a sharp breath. He must have suspected that this was what had led Valjean to search him out in the rain. Still, perhaps, just like Valjean, he wasn’t quite certain how to put this thing hovering just out of reach between them into words.

At last Javert leaned forward and grabbed one of Valjean’s wrists.

“Do you know what you’re saying?” Javert demanded. “Oh, Robert has planned well, but it’s not watertight. Still. You’ve got a chance at freedom now. If you want to stay here...”

Javert stared into Valjean’s eyes, and Valjean found himself transfixed by the sight before him. Everything was as he remembered—everything, save that a few gray hairs had appeared in Javert’s beard. Javert always been a formidable figure; now, Valjean’s stomach clenched helplessly and he shivered when he felt the full extent of Javert’s authority come to bear on him once more.

“If you stay here, there will be rules,” Javert finished, his voice low and intent.

Valjean nodded shakily, unable to speak.

“I want to hear you say it.”

This time, Valjean could clearly hear the hunger in Javert’s voice, cutting through the air sharp as a knife.

“I won’t let you say later on that you didn’t know what you got yourself into. If you want this, then I’ll have all of you. As I did before.”

Valjean drew in a shaky breath as he looked up into Javert’s eyes. “I want it,” he said hoarsely. “All of it.”

He wanted to throw himself against Javert’s impenetrable granite with all the fury of the ocean, again and again, until he shattered into pieces, until there was nothing left of him but the broken shards in Javert’s hand and he soared free of his shackles at last.

“It’s why I came here. It will be just as it was before.”

“And you won’t run the second you and I first disagree about something? The first time you find another Englishman in a storm; the first time I decide you’re in need of discipline and you disagree?”

Silently, Valjean shook his head, his stomach twisting in on itself with sudden, overwhelming hunger.

“I won’t run,” he said. “I don’t...

He fought against the lump in his throat, terrified, balancing on the edge once more, only that one final step away from the freedom of the fall.

“I don’t want a way out,” he said at last, then exhaled, listening to the words he spoke as if another had spoken them. “Keep the letter.”

Javert didn’t move. His nostrils flared as though he’d caught a scent, his eyes hungry and sharp. Valjean felt himself swallowed by relief now that he’d taken the step, now that he’d allowed himself to fall—now that he was Javert’s once more so that he could tremble in his grasp and know himself safely pinned, no matter how much a part of him raged and struggled.

***

Arrangements would have to be made. Valjean still had the room he’d rented, after all, and Doré was stabled at the inn. Fantine wouldn’t be happy for long with the note he’d sent her; he’d have to go and meet her in person eventually to apologize.

Could he tell her what he’d done? What would she say to hear he’d handed himself over to Javert just when she’d found a place for him where he’d be safe from pursuit?

And then there was the matter of the money he’d hidden. One last precaution, even beyond Robert’s letter. It was tempting to keep it a secret even from Javert—but Valjean was tired of the secrets he’d carried for so long. To surrender himself in full meant to surrender even that final safeguard.

He couldn’t give it to Javert—he could imagine the contemptuous look Javert would give him. Javert was too proud. After what Javert had achieved, for Valjean to hand him six hundred thousand francs just like that would be to render his hard work and success meaningless.

Then there was Doré. Javert might be happy to take Valjean in and feed him, but Valjean couldn’t expect him to pay for an unnecessary luxury like a horse both of them had little use for in Paris. Still, Valjean wouldn’t abandon Doré. He had bought him and made himself responsible for his well-being. Doré had been saved once; Valjean wouldn’t chance a second sale and risk Doré.

Furthermore, Cosette had been taken in by convent out of charity, no doubt in the hope that when she grew older, she’d choose to remain in the convent as a novice. The tuition was high; the pupils of the convent were the daughters of the nobility. Fantine would never be able to afford it. If Valjean were to donate five thousand francs to the convent in her name, then Cosette would truly be able to make her choice freely later on, without feeling beholden to the sisters’ charity.

And Fantine... perhaps it was Fantine who should have the rest of the money.

***

By the time they returned to Javert’s apartment after having seen to Doré, and after Javert had thoroughly pondered Robert’s letter, they’d ended up in Javert’s study once more. Valjean had fed wood to the stove until the fire had warmed the room, and Javert had settled in an armchair close to it.

The apartment was cozy and quiet. Valjean had carefully brushed Javert’s coat before cleaning the mud of the streets from Javert’s boots, then polishing them until the leather was spotless and gleaming. Javert was pretending to read, but whenever Valjean looked up to try and sneak a look at him he found Javert watching him as well, his eyes warm and a half-smile tugging at his lips.

Valjean couldn’t help from smiling back, flushing with embarrassed warmth when he lowered his gaze once more to the task before him. Had it truly only been a day since he’d found himself lashing out at Fantine before running through the streets, soaking wet, with as little thought as a terrified animal?

It seemed impossible now. He felt sheltered, safe, surrounded by an indescribable feeling of rightness. This was familiar. This was as it should be.

Who could have known that at the end of his fall, he’d find himself caught and held—the hand he’d once struggled against so hard now wrapping around him with infinite care.

When they went to bed that night, Javert’s eyes were still warm, even when he caught hold of Valjean’s chin once more to give him a pointed look.

“Last night was different,” he said. “I told you why. But you know my rules; they haven’t changed. From now on—”

“Yes, sir,” Valjean said readily. “I choose your bed.”

Javert smiled again, the sight so strange and new that Valjean found himself reach out in wonder to lightly touch Javert’s cheek.

Javert made an amused sound, although his eyes never lost their softness. “You’re in a good mood today. Let’s see how long that lasts. You’ve always needed a firm hand on your reins, and I doubt that has changed.”

“I doubt it as well,” Valjean said ruefully. He would rage against Javert’s harshness sooner or later—but he trusted that Javert would deal with him, firm and unyielding, just as he always had.

“We’ll deal with that when we get to it.”

“Strip,” Javert said, then nodded towards his bed.

He watched as Valjean undressed. Every item of clothing was folded orderly and put away with care. Despite the many months that had passed, Valjean hadn’t forgotten everything, it seemed. And his mouth had performed well enough this morning...

Javert lingered, leaning against his dresser to watch instead of disrobing as Valjean’s body was bared once more to his gaze. The pleasant thrum of heat between his legs turned into a more urgent throb when Valjean at last grasped the hem of his shirt. Slowly, he drew it upward, revealing first the powerful thighs, then the cock nestled between them, already half-hard just from having Javert’s gaze on him, and at last the broad chest and pronounced muscles.

As Javert kept watching, Valjean arranged himself on the bed.

Javert motioned with his hand. “Hands and knees, Valjean.”

Valjean followed obediently. Javert could see the slight flush that crept up his neck, and he smiled.

“Spread those thighs. Wider.”

Valjean’s flush deepened, but he remained obedient, baring himself to Javert’s gaze.

With a deep breath, Javert allowed himself to linger on the flawless tableau before him, his eyes following the perfect curve of Valjean’s buttocks. Round and firm, they were begging for a touch—or the corrective strike of cane or crop.

Javert moistened his lip as he took in the view, lingering too on the dusky crease in between, Valjean’s legs spread far enough that he could catch a glimpse of Valjean’s hole, the muscle tightly furled, and the vulnerable weight of the balls hanging below.

“How long has it been since something has been in there?”

Valjean had to swallow before he could answer, his voice uncertain. “No one since you, sir. No one since Lagny. Except... except for—”

He broke off, and Javert at last pushed himself away from the desk, his curiosity piqued.

“Except for what? Did you let Robert fuck you?”

“No, sir,” Valjean said hesitantly. “But there was a night or two when I...”

His voice trailed off again, and Javert’s smile widened with the hungry satisfaction of the hunter who knew he was on the right track.

“Did you miss me so much you fucked yourself?” A new, sharp heat rushing through Javert at the image his words conjured in his mind.

“Yes,” Valjean admitted, still gazing at the bed beneath him.

“With your fingers? Perhaps I should have left you that wooden finial to remember me by.” Javert watched as Valjean’s powerful body shivered.

“Yes, sir,” Valjean said shakily. “It wasn’t as good as your fingers.”

Javert laughed, low and amused. “Wrong angle. I’ll have to find another of those and teach you how to use it.”

Another shiver ran through Valjean, and his head lowered slightly.

Javert couldn’t keep his eyes off him as he drew off his silken gown, although he forced himself to go slowly. He wanted to prolong the pleasure of seeing Valjean waiting for him, vulnerable and exposed and willing to do anything Javert asked of him.

“Let’s see how tight you are,” Javert murmured when he finally sat down on the bed behind Valjean, the flask of lamp oil with him.

He grabbed Valjean’s buttocks, squeezing them in admiration, then spread him open with his thumbs so that he could get a good look at him. Beneath his gaze, the small muscle clenched.

Javert poured a small measure of oil onto his fingers, then gently rubbed around the rim of Valjean’s hole. When he pressed inside, there was some resistance, but he slid in easily enough.

Another low laugh escaped him. “Remember when I had you for the first time? It will be like that today.”

The thought of that first night made his throat close up, the memory made more potent by a knowledge he hadn’t had back then—he’d been the first to fuck Valjean.

“Almost as tight as a virgin again. To think that once, your hole was hungry enough I could fit my entire hand in here...”

He pushed a second finger inside, and the added pressure was enough to make Valjean groan and clench around him.

“Relax. There’s a lot more to come. As long as you stay with me, you’ll never be this tight again. I’ll make sure of it.”

He pulled back out, watching Valjean’s hole contract helplessly as if it was already missing the penetration. The view was without equal, Valjean’s firm, round buttocks utterly at his disposal.

Still, in the end he nudged Valjean and made him turn. The view that awaited him made up for the loss. Valjean’s face was flushed, his skin shining with perspiration, his breath already coming in little pants as he spread himself out obediently following Javert’s instructions: thighs spread wide, hands clutching his knees, his gleaming hole and swollen cock exposed and available.

Javert drew in a deep breath, his hand shaking a little as he hastily smoothed the remaining oil over himself. He moved over Valjean and lined up his cock with his hole—and then he pressed inside, a surprised gasp dragged from him as vise-like heat squeezed around the sensitive head of his cock.

Had it always felt like this? Had it merely been so long that he’d forgotten how good Valjean had felt?

Javert almost lost control right then and there, but the constricting warmth around him was so sweet that he wanted to make it last for as long as possible.

With slow, careful strokes he began to rock deeper into Valjean, opening him up little by little while Valjean panted helplessly beneath him. By the time he’d fully buried himself inside Valjean, Valjean’s body was still clutching tightly around him—and Valjean was clutching just as tightly at his shoulders, his thighs around Javert’s waist, helpless moans escaping him every time Javert pushed into him.

Javert slowed down even more, although his own body was aching to finish. But they’d both been waiting for this moment for so long that he didn’t want it to end. He was still half-afraid that it might all have been a dream, that any moment, he’d wake as he had before: his release cooling on his stomach, his bed cold and empty, the few blissful moments of the dream already fled beyond his grasp.

Valjean moaned almost pitifully, but even so his eyes remained open, riveted to Javert as though he, too, had to constantly reassure himself that this was real, that he was indeed at last in Javert’s bed once more, where he belonged.

Shaky, fever-hot fingers reached towards Javert’s face, Valjean caressing him with clumsy fingers until Javert leaned in with a groan and kissed Valjean.

Javert had thought that he’d revel in his triumph. He’d wanted to taste the dizzying power of Valjean’s surrender down to the very dregs—but instead, he found himself gasping for air, clutching at Valjean just as Valjean was clutching at him. The relentless rhythm of his thrusts deteriorated into helpless jerks of his hips as he kissed Valjean until he was light-headed with the lack of air, buried deep within the trembling heat of Valjean’s body. Every now and then, he drew back only so that he could stare at Valjean in wonder—and in turn Valjean gazed up at him with swollen lips and wide, disbelieving eyes that hid nothing from him.

Even after they’d found release, Javert was reluctant to let go of Valjean.

Outside, it had begun to rain again. His bedroom was still warmed by the wood crackling in the stove. Valjean’s arms tightened around him, and Valjean leaned in to press worshipful lips to the hollow of Javert’s throat, ignoring the mess that had spattered across his stomach.

How long had it been since Javert had been able to rest like this? Not since Lagny... And never in this bed, where he’d lain awake many nights, sleep refusing to come as he stared into the darkness with open eyes, thinking of a man whom he just couldn’t forget.

Javert turned his head and brushed his lips against Valjean’s ear, his fingers tangling in Valjean’s sweaty hair. When Valjean drew back, there was an unguarded smile on his lips—and Javert found himself smiling back as he reached out once more to trace a fingertip along Valjean’s lips.

Valjean truly had returned. Valjean was his once more.

***

The day had started out so well.

Javert had woken to the sweet, familiar sensation of Valjean’s mouth hot and hungry around his cock and the even sweeter sight of Valjean smiling at him, lips still glistening with traces of his release. Afterward, Valjean had contentedly settled into his arms while Javert savored the slowly fading aftermath of pleasure.

He’d watched as Valjean licked away his come, eyes warm and worshipful, his cock resting half-hard against Javert’s thigh and content to remain so unless Javert chose to reward him.

Javert did choose to, eventually—and perhaps that was where the trouble had started.

Javert was the first to admit that he’d been nearly blinded by the overwhelming relief of finding Valjean suddenly on his doorstep. He’d missed Valjean. That was a truth he could no longer deny even to himself.

But in the nostalgia-tinted recollection of days heady with Valjean’s surrender, Javert had all but forgotten how utterly frustrating the man could be. And it appeared that two blissful nights with Valjean by his side and two blissful mornings with Valjean as well-behaved and attentive as Javert could wish for were about as much as Valjean’s stubborn mind could stand without a reminder of who held his reins.

Javert had given Valjean no orders for the day. Perhaps that was the second mistake he’d made that day. Valjean’s return was still so new and unexpected that they hadn’t yet found time to settle into a comfortable routine.

When he left for the prefecture, Javert thought that Valjean might spend the day seeing to Doré, who was still stabled in the inn he’d stayed at, writing to Robert, perhaps going for a walk in the park if the rain let up, and apologizing to Fantine. Javert had imagined that he would come home to rooms warm and welcoming, the stove burning, Valjean ready to take his coat and to hold still for a kiss before Javert would send him to fetch his dinner. As it started to rain again, Javert had looked out of the fiacre’s window as the wheels rolled over wet cobblestone and imagined an evening in his study, Valjean on his knees by his side and Javert’s hand in Valjean’s hair, rain thrumming against the window as he went through his remaining work.

Instead, what met Javert when he returned home was a cold, empty apartment. His heart suddenly racing, he hastened to his bedroom, opening the door—and found the room empty as well.

Valjean wasn’t home.

Had he run again? Had he run so soon, when only two days ago he’d dropped to his knees in the middle of the street?

Javert was already halfway down the stairs when he heard the sound of steps below him. Moments later, Valjean finally appeared, trudging up the stairs dripping water.

Javert stared at him. There was no doubt that Valjean was in one of his moods again. His brow was furrowed, the lines surrounding his mouth deep, his shoulders hunched tightly.

For the first time since they’d woken next to each other again, there was no immediate smile spreading across Valjean’s lips, no warmth making his eyes shine when he raised his head and saw Javert.

Javert stared at him for a long moment.

“Inside. Now,” he said sharply, then turned to enter his apartment without looking back to make certain that Valjean was following him.

A minute later, they were staring at each other inside Javert’s apartment, the door closed behind Valjean. Water was still dripping from his sodden coat. Javert looked him up and down, not bothering to hide his deep dissatisfaction.

“Coat,” he snapped when Valjean made no move to reach out for it.

Valjean’s eyes narrowed, but at least he still did as he was told, even though his movements were jerky instead of careful as he took hold of Javert’s coat and hung it by the door.

Javert waited, but there was no apology or explanation—just that deeply frustrating, stubborn set of Valjean’s mouth.

Very well. If Valjean was looking for a reminder of just who it was he’d surrendered himself to, Javert would be happy to give it. He hadn’t thought that moment would come so soon, but even a well-broken horse might test its master’s limits sometimes. And Valjean was far from well-broken, they both knew that.

“The portress has my dinner waiting. Go and fetch it,” Javert said. “And mind your manners with her when you do.”

He turned away from Valjean then, flinging his wet gloves onto the table. It was a pity he didn’t have the old riding crop at hand; in Paris, it was easier to simply take a fiacre to go about his work.

It was an oversight he’d have to remedy tomorrow.

While Valjean was fetching his dinner, Javert frowned and surveyed the room. His eyes alighted on the silver-topped cane, part of the new uniform—a symbol of his new authority, and as such perhaps particularly suited to discipline Valjean’s ill mood.

He placed it on the table. Then a new thought came to him, and he took a wooden ruler from a drawer in his desk. Finally, a small, grim smile now taking the place of his earlier frown, he fetched one of his belts from the bedroom. He folded it and rested the length of leather next to cane and ruler on the table.

Then he sat down and waited.

It didn’t take long until Valjean returned, carrying a tray that held his dinner and the carafe of coffee his portress knew to brew for him in the evening. He could see Valjean’s eyes widen slightly when he caught sight of what Javert had laid out on the table. Although whatever mood had taken hold of Valjean hadn’t quite vanished, the stubborn cast to his mouth at last turned into something more vulnerable as he served Javert his dinner.

“Make a fire,” Javert said. “Hang the coats by the stove.”

Valjean’s nostrils flared, and Javert could hear him inhale, but he went off without protest to reluctantly do as he was told. When he returned several minutes later, the stove was going and the room was beginning to warm.

Javert pointed at the floor next to him, then continued to eat without glancing down to make certain that Valjean followed his order.

He felt wistful and bitterly amused when he thought now of the fantasies of coming home to warmth and a sweet, biddable Valjean. It was easy, perhaps, to remember only the good times, but the truth was that Valjean had never been easy.

Javert had never minded the challenge Valjean had posed—there was a particular satisfaction in pushing back against that stubbornness until he got the surrender he wanted. Still, he’d forgotten that these setbacks were just as likely to happen on cold, rainy days after a tiring day of work, when he’d been looking forward to nothing more challenging than a quiet evening with Valjean by his side.

He kept eating silently. For once, Valjean didn’t make a sound, although Javert found his shoulders still tense when he glanced down at him. No doubt Valjean was still frowning—a martyr once more, forced to suffer beneath Javert’s heavy hand.

Javert smiled without humor. Wasn’t that exactly what Valjean had come back to him for?

Tonight, he’d reassure him that Javert was still just as willing to set those boundaries it seemed Valjean couldn’t do without.

Javert ate without hurry, as if he didn’t have a care in the world.

The room was warm now, although the floor was hard beneath Valjean’s knees, but Valjean barely felt it. He stared at the worn wood beneath his knees, trying to keep his fists from clenching, the earlier turmoil in his mind slowly making place for dread—and an abject relief that Javert had really spoken the truth when he’d said he’d take him back, that everything would be as it had been before between them.

He hated the thought of what waited for him on the table, the neatly aligned line of cane, ruler and belt. He hated that Javert made him wait for it like this, on his knees while Javert ate, ignoring him—and he hated even more that he hadn’t been able to help it.

He truly had brought this on himself. He’d lingered, walking without aim past darkness, distraught and vaguely sickened by his own actions. He’d known that Javert would be upset to come home and find him gone without explanation—but then, an insistent voice in his head had whispered, what did he owe Javert? Javert didn’t own him. What man would throw away his freedom and willingly bend beneath Javert’s yoke?

That was what Fantine had thought. She hadn’t exactly said so—not in words. But it had been enough to watch her face when Valjean had apologized for his behavior. She’d wiped away his apology with a smile, the way he’d treated her instantly forgiven—but when he’d haltingly admitted to having sought out Javert, it had been difficult to bear her disbelief.

Oh, she’d been gentle when she’d interrogated him, but with every word she spoke it had been obvious that she thought that there was no possible reason for why he should have admitted it all to Javert. It had taken Robert over a year of hard work to bring about his freedom—and now Valjean had thrown it all away, just like that.

She must have thought Valjean was mad. And perhaps she was right.

What else but madness could it be to throw away everything good that had happened to him and come knocking on Javert’s door? Robert had offered him a new life—his freedom, a farm to live on, his old horse, and that moment of vulnerability by the lake in the moonlight when Valjean hadn’t been able to keep from hurting him.

Valjean had thrown that gift in his face and returned willingly to let Javert degrade him. What would Robert think if he were to see him kneeling before a table that held Javert’s choice of discipline?

What would Fantine think?

Valjean squeezed his eyes shut, wondering what Javert would do were Valjean to stand now and walk out.

Would he come racing after him with anger in his eyes, grab Valjean by the wrists and push him against a wall? Would Valjean find himself tied once more, cuffs taking away his choice until Javert’s belt had beaten him into submission?

Even now, even after seeing Fantine’s face, Valjean found himself praying that he would.

Javert didn’t speak as he finished his dinner. On an ordinary day, Valjean would have sat at his table and shared his meal.Today, he didn’t even bother to reach down and feed Valjean a few bites of his bread.

Once Javert had finished, the carafe of coffee empty as well, he sent Valjean to return his dishes to his portress. When Valjean entered Javert’s apartment once more, Javert was still sitting in his chair, cane, ruler and belt still laid out in front of him.

“Strip,” Javert said. “Hang your clothes by the stove so they can dry.”

Valjean obeyed, the unhappy frustration that had gotten its teeth into him after he’d visited Fantine slowly falling away with the clothes he drew off. When he at last sank to his knees before Javert once more, even the tormenting need to run away, to blindly grasp for a freedom he’d voluntarily relinquished, had grown faint.

He bent his head and stared at the floor once more. This time, Javert’s hand came to settle in his hair, toying with it for a while before his fingers suddenly tightened.

“I have heard no apology so far,” he said. “Well? Do I not deserve at least an explanation? You know my expectations, Valjean. And your behavior today was highly disrespectful.”

Valjean choked back a bitter laugh. Despite knowing better, there was still enough of that dark mood inside him that he blurted out, “Disrespectful? Because I arrived a few minutes after you?”

Javert made a displeased sound. “Very well. If it’s like that, let’s get your punishment out of the way first.”

Again something inside Valjean bristled, although the dark promise in Javert’s voice was a strange comfort. Javert wouldn’t let him run away from this.

“It appears that I don’t have a riding crop,” Javert said. “Tomorrow I will give you some coin and you will go and purchase one. I expect good quality and craftsmanship. Something that feels good in my hand. Something that will serve me well for years, even if it turns out that it will see daily use on your backside.”

Valjean didn’t answer, although his shoulders hunched instinctively at the thought of being forced to purchase a crop meant for himself—and with his buttocks bright red beneath his clothes, most likely.

“Today, as I don’t have a crop, you have a choice. Get up. Pick one.”

Valjean rose reluctantly. He couldn’t say what he’d expected when he’d come back so late, a part of him aching for a confrontation with Javert. Anger, perhaps—he’d imagined Javert furious, pushing him against a wall, and he’d wanted to be angry with Javert in turn when Javert brutally subdued him.

What he’d received instead was a coldly displeased Javert. Javert didn’t have to resort to anger to deal with him, as much as Valjean had wanted to throw himself against Javert’s rage and be consumed by it. In turn, Valjean’s own shame and fury had begun to turn into apprehension.

Before him rested the implements Javert had chosen.

Valjean knew the belt well. He hesitated for a moment, then reached out and ran his finger over it. He knew the bite of it, the dull heat of the leather as it covered his backside with formidable stripes. The mere memory of Javert with the belt in his hand made heat bloom in his stomach.

The ruler was new. The firm, wooden length stared at him, a tool of precision. The thought of Javert using it to correct him was enough to make him shiver with shame—not because of the humiliation it meant, but because he wanted it, fiercely and helplessly.

To the left of them rested the cane.

Valjean had seen the uniforms that now distinguished agents of police. It had been a strange sight at first, but one he’d immediately come to appreciate. The blue uniforms made it easy to see them in a crowd and evade them, although, of course, he had no doubt that there were still just as many spies around.

During the day, agents of police now carried a cane topped with a white knob. During the night, they carried a sword on their patrol. As chief inspector of the prefecture, Javert’s cane symbolized his rank. It was topped with silver, and as he warily eyed the long, slender length, he saw the coat of arms of Paris engraved on it.

Valjean knew what a cane felt like, but this cane seemed sturdier than what Javert had used on him so far. The pain was different to that of the belt. The unyielding wood would deliver bright, punishing pain.

He looked up, clenching his jaw as he looked at Javert. Somewhere inside him the furious stubbornness still lingered that Javert had so often disciplined him for. In the year that they’d been apart, it had taken root again, growing unhindered despite his struggle to become better than what he’d been. Now, it whispered inside him, wanting to shove cane, ruler and belt off the table and tell Javert that he had no right to demand this of him.

All the same, Valjean had taken that first step and flung himself into the abyss to find annihilation—and what he’d found there once more were Javert’s arms catching him.

He wanted those arms to hold him so firmly that there was no escape. And he wanted the punishment that would root out that old fury from his soul and make him fade away beneath the pain and the onslaught of sensation until there was nothing left.

Valjean swallowed, his eyes glancing at the ruler again. Then he lightly touched the cane.

Javert raised a brow. “An interesting choice. You liked the ruler.”

It wasn’t a question, and so Valjean only nodded, still embarrassed that the mere word was enough to make him shift uncertainly. He liked the thought of it in Javert’s hand. He liked the thought of being pushed down and made to take it.

But he was afraid that it would be too easy to take. He knew the cane wouldn’t.

“You’ve caused me some trouble tonight,” Javert said. “I’m glad that at least you have sense enough to agree that a severe punishment is appropriate. When I came home to find you gone—”

Now, for the first time, Valjean felt a sudden sting, startled by the realization that while he’d spent the evening mired in his misery over Fantine’s reaction, he’d completely failed to think of Javert and what his fears must have been when he returned home to find the apartment empty.

Shocked, Valjean raised his eyes to Javert, the darkness that had taken hold of him suddenly dissipating as guilt rose inside him.

No wonder that Javert had been upset with him.

Moreover, Javert looked weary. Had Valjean been so preoccupied with his own worries that he’d forgotten once again that Javert had worries of his own? Javert must have been tired after a long day. He must have hoped to return home to find more of what they’d shared these past two days—the almost giddy disbelief, the overwhelming sense of rightness, the warmth within whenever their eyes met.

And now Valjean had ruined that too, just as he’d ruined the life Robert had built for him and the chance for happiness in the convent that Fantine had offered.

Valjean swallowed and hung his head. “I’m sorry, sir.”

Sudden terror gripped hold of him. What would he do if Javert sent him away? Javert had taken him in—but why should he continue to do so when Valjean had proved that he couldn’t even stay out of trouble for more than two days?

“Yes,” Javert said. “You will be.”

Javert took hold of the cane and pushed the other implements to the side. Then Valjean found himself unceremoniously shoved down over the table.

“Don’t move,” Javert warned.

The old, bristling fury threatened to rise once more, but Valjean bit down on it, clenching his hands around the table’s edge as he waited, helpless and exposed. He prayed that the cane would hurt, because nothing would be worse than giving in to the anger and acting out against Javert when he wanted so desperately for Javert to crush the guilt and the shame and the anger out of him.

Without Javert, there was nothing. What other man would ever want to take that place? Javert was the only one who understood.

And this time, too, Javert understood well enough to let Valjean feel his own displeasure—not hot anger but a cold, calculated fury.

The cane came down hard onto Valjean’s unprotected buttocks with enough force to wrest a small, shocked cry from Valjean. He clenched his fingers around the table until they ached to keep himself from reaching back and trying to shield himself with his hands.

Again the cane fell. This time Valjean sobbed, the pain sharp and sudden. It went deeper than the bright pain of the riding crop, vibrating through him, and before he’d managed to recover, a third followed, more tears springing up at the sudden burst of agony.

Javert could have held back. Valjean knew him well enough to know that most of the time, even in situations like these, Javert kept an iron control on himself.

Every stroke was intentional. The force and the angle of every stroke was exactly as Javert desired it—and he wanted to make Valjean’s first encounter with his cane memorable, there was no doubt about it.

Valjean endured, clutching at the table until at last the fierce pain burned away the remnants of that old, bitter fury. Then he merely sobbed, agonized and grateful, when surrender overcame him, the old, bitter rebellion beaten out of him so that all he had to do was lie helplessly on the table and endure. Every strike was a reminder of Javert’s mastery over him and nothing more, all else wiped away.

Three more strokes he took like that, having surrendered to the pain that came throbbing through him at each stroke, until at last Javert ceased.

Javert gave Valjean a moment to compose himself, then he ran a hand up his hip. Valjean groaned, his voice still hoarse and thick with tears, when Javert’s palm curved around a reddened buttock. His thumb followed a welt and Valjean felt new heat pulse through him.

He drew in a sharp breath, and Javert laughed softly.

“Yes. Now I believe that you’re sorry.”

Despite the pain, Valjean was almost sad to lose Javert’s touch when Javert finally moved away.

Slowly, Valjean pushed himself back into an upright position. He felt shaky, unmoored; Javert had cast him loose from the riverbank, and now for once, he was drifting free, no ballast weighing him down.

Javert had returned to his chair, the cane placed out of reach. He crooked a finger, and Valjean readily approached.

Slowly, he moved to his knees before Javert with another hiss of pain, and Javert reached out and buried his fingers once more in his hair. Valjean’s throat suddenly went dry when a furtive glance revealed that Javert’s cock had begun to harden and now pressed with interest against his trousers.

It would be a good way to show his penance, ending the evening with Javert deep in his throat—but Javert gripped him too tightly. He was in no mood, it seemed, to end this interrogation so quickly.

“And now I want answers. What made you think you could just run off on your own? I’d thought you’d remember my expectations for you well enough. I made it very clear then, I believe, when I told you that if you stayed here, it would be according to my rules. Coming home late in one of your moods is not at all acceptable. I will have your respect, even if I have to beat it into you.”

Valjean felt lightheaded, the hot welts pulsing with pain in time to his heartbeat, and he struggled, just a little, against Javert’s tight grip on his hair—both because he really did want to feel Javert’s cock in his mouth, and because he delighted in the sensation of Javert’s fingers tightening, keeping him in place.

It was true. He could always trust Javert to remain firm and unyielding, as dependable as granite.

“Is that it?” Javert said in a low voice. “Are you testing me? Well, even a well-trained horse will test his master’s patience now and then. Did you need a reminder that I will suffer neither rebellion nor disrespect? You have it now.”

Valjean exhaled and lightly nodded, still feeling a little dizzy. “I met Fantine today, sir. To apologize for my behavior—when I shouted at her, and then ran without another word. That was unacceptable behavior.”

“And that has you in such a foul mood today?” Javert said. “What, did she end up not accepting your apology? I would have thought that woman would forgive you anything, the way she used to glower at me.”

Valjean shook his head. “It’s not that, sir. I told her I couldn’t accept the offer to come and work in the convent. I told her… I told her that I’d confessed everything to you.”

Javert made a thoughtful sound, his grip on Valjean’s hair lightening. His thumb traced over Valjean’s cheek, then came away; Valjean could see that it was glistening with his tears.

“And she doesn’t like this, I imagine. And why would she. She never liked it much in Montreuil either. Neither did you.”

Valjean hung his head.

“She must think I’m mad to throw away my freedom.” He laughed, the sound half a sob. “Perhaps I am. I ran away from Robert. I ran away from Fantine. I ran from the convent.”

Valjean took a shuddering breath, then looked up to meet Javert’s eyes. “You’ll never let me run from you. That’s why I came to you.”

A short description of animal cruelty in this chapter. Spoiler: Roll mouse over "link" for popup text

Snow had begun to fall. The streets were miserably wet, a slurry of gray gathering in corners. Javert wrinkled his nose in disgust.

These days he earned enough to be able to afford a fiacre wherever he wanted to go, but for some reason, he and Valjean had developed a habit of a lunchtime walk before sitting down in one of the many small shops that served nourishing bouillon and bread.

Despite the slurry of snow, it was good to keep an eye on Valjean, he told himself—worth even the spatters of dirt on the polished leather of his boots. In any case, it was Valjean who would clean them tonight, making up for the trouble of spending his lunchtime keeping an eye on him.

He found Valjean waiting beneath the portico of a building that overlooked the square. Valjean was still wary of the Rue de Jérusalem, and probably for a good reason—Javert couldn’t even imagine what the prefecture’s spies would make of him. Better not to draw any attention.

Still, Valjean looked unassuming enough. While Javert had kept Valjean in simple workingman’s clothes during their time in Montreuil, Valjean had come to Paris dressed like a retired gentleman, thanks to Robert’s meddling. Valjean, for as long as Javert had known him, had never shown much of an inclination to better himself in the eyes of the world through the clothes he wore. Yet so far, Valjean’s bourgeois mask hadn’t seemed to slip.

No spy’s report had landed on Javert’s desk to inform him about a suspicious gentleman newly arrived in Paris. And of course, ever since Valjean had surrendered himself to Javert, Javert had tried to make certain that Valjean spent his days staying out of trouble—as much as that was possible for a man who was in Paris under the pretext of working for Robert. From what Javert could see, this work seemed to have consisted of nothing but spending his days wandering around Paris, handing coins to beggars.

Javert hadn’t yet found a solution for that problem. In Montreuil, it had been easy. He’d liked to see Valjean worked hard, and there had never been a lack of work for Valjean.

Now, although Valjean did the tasks Javert gave him readily enough—serve his dinner, dress and wash him, brush his coat and polish his boots—it was hardly enough to keep a man like Valjean busy all day. And none of it was the work Valjean’s body was so suited to.

Across the square, Valjean had at last spied him. Javert inclined his head, speeding up his steps. At the same moment, somewhere behind him, he heard a sudden call.

“Sir! Chief Inspector!”

The voice was familiar. What was Rivette doing, coming calling after him during lunchtime? Whatever it was, it couldn’t be good.

Scowling, Javert turned to await Rivette.

“Well? What is it?” he demanded when Rivette came to a halt in front of him, out of breath.

“Sir, that thief you brought in this morning—”

“What about her? I let her go.” A moment too late, Javert realized what he’d just said.

Rivette reared back almost comically, stunned as much as Javert, it appeared, by the words that had escaped his mouth.

“Oh,” Rivette said weakly, then blurted out, “But—why?” before he caught himself.

Javert didn’t like to be questioned by a subordinate, they both knew that, and Javert was half-tempted to send him his way with a curse.

Still, Rivette’s words had brought back a memory he’d already managed to suppress—the girl’s wrist in his hand, as frail as a stick, when he’d caught her with her fingers clenched around an apple lifted from a vendor’s cart.

Most thieves fought, instinct causing them to try and tear free. She’d frozen, looking up at him with her eyes full of despair, as if she’d known from the moment she’d reached out for the apple that she was sealing her fate and yet hadn’t been able to keep from doing it anyway.

She must have been very hungry, was what he’d thought, incongruously. All the way back to the Rue de Jérusalem, he’d held the frail wrist in his grasp and kept thinking of Fantine, of all people, escaping through the forest with him.

“None of your business, Rivette,” Javert said darkly, then added a begrudging explanation. “She’s one of my informers now. I need a new pair of eyes near the Halles.”

“Oh,” Rivette said, his confusion slowly changing into relief, as if the world at last made sense again.

Javert’s scowl deepened. There was no need at all to make such a fuss about a single wretched girl. Rivette truly should know better than questioning him. Javert ran the prefecture, not Rivette.

“Is there anything else?” Javert demanded, making no secret of his displeasure. He’d only recently begun taking his lunch outside the prefecture, but the men knew better by now to try and interfere with this new habit.

“No, sir. I’m sorry, sir,” Rivette said, chagrined. “You must be on your way to eat...”

He was watching Javert with a half-hopeful expression, as if he was wondering whether Javert might invite him to walk with him or share his lunch, the way they sometimes used to back when Javert had been one inspector among several, and Rivette had taken him to Vannier’s.

“Yes,” Javert said curtly. “I’ll see you on my return.”

Rivette’s smile faded a little, and to his surprise Javert felt a moment of regret. Rivette had offered his friendship from the start, when no one else had. Did he think that Javert was suddenly rebuffing him because of his change in position?

Even if that were the cause, Javert would be right to. As Rivette’s superior, he could hardly go to lunch every day with only one of his subordinates.

“But you were right to come and ask,” Javert added gruffly. “Well spotted. Now run along, you must be wasting your own lunch break.”

Just like that, Rivette’s eyes lit up once again, and Javert had to hold back a sigh.

Perhaps it was unavoidable that Rivette should run into Valjean eventually. Still, Javert preferred to have it happen later rather than sooner. He still had no idea what reason he could give for why the criminal he had so often told Rivette about was now living in his apartment.

By the time Javert had at last made it over to the portico where Valjean had been waiting, it had begun to snow once more. Valjean’s brow was furrowed, and when Javert stepped next to him, brushing snow off his coat with a frown, Valjean gave him a wary look.

“Was that Rivette?” he asked before greeting Javert.

Javert looked up in surprise—not so much at the question, because he’d mentioned Rivette to Valjean several times, but rather by the tone he’d taken.

Was Valjean upset because Rivette had almost run into him? Perhaps.

“Don’t worry. He doesn’t know about you. What do you take me for?” Javert chuckled at the idea that he should keep a file on the man now living with him among the other files at the prefecture. “Even if he’d seen you, he’d never recognize you. He’s heard of you, but for all he knows, you’re still in Montreuil. And then, you have your letter. There’s no reason to glower like that.”

Valjean’s lips tightened and he turned away. Javert raised a brow—these days, Valjean was much better behaved than he used to be, although it was true that his inexplicable moods returned every now and then.

“Don’t make me take you home,” he warned lightly. “Save your moodiness for the evening. I’m cold and hungry. I came out into the cold just to walk with you.”

He could see Valjean’s shoulders tighten from behind. A moment later, they relaxed, and Valjean turned back around to face him with his face softened and his eyes contrite.

“Of course, sir,” he said. “I’m sorry.”

“Come. Let’s walk.”

The weather truly was ghastly today, but after a few moments of walking in silence, Javert felt himself inexplicably relaxing. And so had Valjean. Usually, when he was in one of his bouts of sullenness, he didn’t let off until Javert had beaten his moods out of him. Today, as they walked across the Pont Saint-Michel through the slurry of snow and the cold wind, it seemed that for once, the walk itself was enough to cure Valjean’s mood—or perhaps it was merely Javert’s presence and the promise of the evening.

It was not far to the small park where they usually walked, else Javert might have preferred to forego the walk altogether. Even Valjean’s skilled hands could only do so much against the mire of the streets, and Javert could hardly expect his men to be groomed to his standards while returning spattered with mud.

They could already see the gate that opened to the small rectangle of grass and trees when Javert became aware of a disturbance. The street than ran from the Pont Saint-Michel to the Place Saint-André was busy with carts and carriages at this time of the day. One such cart appeared to be the culprit that had momentarily caused the flow of the street to stop, causing coachmen to shout in anger and groups of curious passersby to assemble.

Javert frowned in displeasure. He had no intention of cutting his hour with Valjean short only to lower himself into the mud and argue with a cart driver. Where were his agents when they were needed?

Valjean had already hastened his steps, instinctively wary of being caught up in a commotion, even with the chief inspector by his side. Then they heard a horse scream.

Both of them froze at the same time.

It was Javert who arrived first by the cart that had caused the upheaval, fighting against a strange sense of premonition that tightened his chest. Something about the horse’s agonized whinny had stabbed right to the heart of him—but it was impossible. It couldn’t be.

He turned around one of the waiting fiacres and came to a sudden stop, rooted to the ground with disbelief.

One of the cart’s wheels had broken. The horse that had drawn the cart was trapped beneath the shafts. The cart’s driver was standing above the animal, whip in hand. Every time the whip came down, the horse screamed, its coat wet with lather, its mouth bleeding.

Noiraude. Javert would have recognized her anywhere.

It was unmistakably Noiraude—although the formerly so proud horse, once one of the finest in the entire department, had undergone a terrible change. Her coat and mane was dull and matted, her legs stiff and swollen, her back sunken in. Javert could count her ribs as she shuddered, eyes rolling, fighting to come up and yet too weak to shift beneath the shafts. Already the cart driver’s whip was rising once more—

Javert took a step forward, but he was too late. It was Valjean’s hand that closed around the man’s wrist, wresting the whip from him.

“What the hell do you think you’re doing?” the man shouted, whirling around with his fists raised.

One look at Valjean was enough to make him instinctively back away. Even in his bourgeois clothes, Valjean looked dangerous. With his jaw locked and his eyes ablaze, Javert found himself suddenly reminded of the way Valjean had glared back at him, a long time ago, when he’d had him strung up in chains in the guard-room.

Javert stepped forward. “What is going on here?”

After a look at Javert and the uniform he wore, the man scowled but seemed to visibly lose some of the fight in him.

“Nothing,” he said. “Can’t you see the old nag fell? I’ve been trying to make way for the carriages—until that man assaulted me.”

Javert gave him an unimpressed look.

“You were beating the horse to death. How is that going to help?” Javert gave Valjean a sharp nod. “Lift the cart so that she can stand.”

He took the man aside, just to make certain that Noiraude would come to no further harm. Valjean stopped by the mare’s terrified head for a moment, and she seemed to recognize him. Although her body continued to shudder all over, her eyes rolling in terror, she quieted, and Valjean could set to work.

“Bah,” the cart driver said and spat. “Should have sold her to an abattoir a week ago. How am I going to get my cart to the market now?”

“That’s not my problem,” Javert said coldly. He watched as Valjean eyed the cart and the harness attached to it, then crawled beneath the shafts that kept Noiraude pinned. “She’s never going to pull a cart again. Look at her swollen fetlocks—those legs are ruined.”

“What’s it to you?” the cart driver said. “You’re going to buy her?”

Javert reached into his pocket. “She’s worth no more than five francs. Not much meat on her. Here. Ten.”

“And the cart?” the man demanded, although he hastily took the coins—a good price for a half-dead nag, although Javert’s heart ached when he thought of the price she’d fetched when she’d gone to the officer in Montreuil, two years ago.

“That’s your problem.”

The man scowled, about to protest again, but then fell silent when a murmur ran through the crowd.

Slowly, Valjean had begun to lift the shafts, straightening the broken cart and freeing Noiraude from the weight that had held her captive. Ignoring the driver, Javert now quickly came forward. He took hold of her head and spoke to her, encouraging the trembling mare to stand.

“Come on, Noiraude,” he murmured, glancing down into her pain-glazed eyes. “Stand up.”

She snorted, blowing hot air and blood-flecked foam at him. The ill-fitting bridle and cruel bit had cut her mouth. Javert’s heart ached again when he thought of how soft-mouthed and responsive to the reins she’d been. Still, at his words, she calmed. Javert stroked her wet neck and waited patiently. After a moment, while Valjean kept the cart pushed up, she gathered her trembling legs beneath her.

Then, shakily and to the surprised murmuring of the crowd, she managed to get back up to her feet. Javert kept a hand on her neck, whispering soft encouragement to her as she blew out air and stood with her head hanging low, her nose pressed against him.

Valjean released the cart again. Without further encouragement from Javert, he began to loosen the straps that kept her harnessed to the cart.

Snow was still falling. Valjean’s clothes had been ruined by the gray sludge he’d been kneeling in to lift the cart weighing down Noiraude. Although Noiraude had managed to come back up onto her feet, her legs were still trembling. It was a long walk back to the inn where Valjean still had Doré stabled—but for now, they’d have to get her out of the street and into a warm stable as quickly as possible.

Perhaps there was nothing that could be done to help her. Even so, Javert couldn’t bear the thought of condemning her to death. She’d recognized him. She’d fought with all her strength to stand, just because he’d asked her to.

The least he could do was to bring her somewhere warm and safe where he could have a good look at her—and if there was nothing else that could be done, then at least she wouldn’t end her life alone and forgotten out in the snow.

“This way,” a voice suddenly said.

When Javert looked up, he found a man standing before them who looked vaguely familiar. The way he looked at Javert suggested that he knew him—although with all that had happened, Javert couldn’t quite recall where he might have seen him before.

“Chief Inspector,” the man said. “I saw what happened. I was about to run for help—wouldn’t have thought it possible that one man alone could lift that cart enough for her to get back up. She won’t get far like this. You can bring her into our stable for today, if you want.”

All of a sudden Javert remembered where he’d seen him before—he belonged to the corps of firemen stationed close to the prefecture. The large stable that held the powerful fire horses and their wagons was just across the bridge.

“Forgive me,” the man then added. “Lieutenant Delamare, third company of the corps of firefighters.”

Javert inclined his head. “Thank you,” he said, his hand on Noiraude’s neck, encouraging her forward.

It took much longer to cross the bridge than it had taken them earlier—but despite Noiraude’s pitiful appearance and her trembling, she followed him trustingly, and Javert began to hope against all hope that perhaps, there was still a chance that she might recover.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Valjean hastily rubbed Noiraude down as soon as they’d found a stall for her. The other stalls in the stable were occupied by enormous white horses that would swiftly pull heavy wagons through the streets of Paris whenever a fire broke out.

The stable was quiet, although several of the firefighters had gathered around their stall. By some stroke of luck, the farrier had been in; now he stood with a Javert in a corner, deep in conversation, while Valjean tried to make Noiraude as comfortable as possible.

“It depends,” the farrier now said. Despite a gruff exterior and broad, calloused hands, he was a soft-spoken man who’d run his hands down Noiraude’s legs with exquisite gentleness earlier. “She’ll recover, no doubt. But as to whether she’ll ever be of use to you again—”

“She’ll never draw a cart again,” Javert said, his voice soft with fury.

Valjean slowly stroked Noiraude’s fine head, bending his brow against hers as he listened to their conversation.

“She was a saddle-horse, once. A fine horse.”

The farrier made a thoughtful sound. “Whether she can bear a rider again—impossible to say at this point. Her legs are very bad. You’re lucky she can still walk. It would be best if you don’t put too much hope in her recovery. Perhaps all she’ll ever be fit for is pasture. And you might still have a foal out of her in that case.”

“She’ll heal,” Valjean said, surprising himself. “I’ll care for her until she heals.”

The farrier gave him a long look, then nodded. “You can try. She’ll need a lot of care. Rub her legs several times every day with a liniment of the nine oils. Her hooves are bad. I’ll take off the irons; let the hoof regrow. We can make her more comfortable. But no matter how much work you’re willing to do, don’t forget that it isn’t up to you. You can try—but she might never bear a rider again.”

“It doesn’t matter,” Javert said.

Valjean looked up, surprised and relieved.

The Javert who’d been so proud of the horse he’d ridden in Montreuil—would he have done the same for Noiraude back then? Now, Valjean didn’t doubt even for a moment that if Noiraude would never do more than spend her days out at pasture, Javert still wouldn’t mind.

“It doesn’t matter if I’ll never ride her again. She’s a good horse. If you’d seen her two years ago—the finest horse I’d ever ridden. One of the finest in the entire department.”

“She was sold to one of the officers of the garrison,” Valjean said. “He paid a large sum for her. I don’t know how she ended up like this...”

Javert’s eyes came to rest on him for a long moment before they returned to Noiraude.

“Some people,” Javert said quietly, “are blind to the precious thing they own. They never know what they’ve squandered until they’ve lost it.”

Valjean looked up. Javert’s eyes were still on Noiraude. Something inside Valjean seemed to expand, his throat suddenly tight and his eyes burning so that he hastily turned back, facing Noiraude to hide the rush of emotion.

“Some people,” he said hoarsely. “But not all of them.”

Valjean ran his hand down Noiraude’s neck again. She blew out air contentedly, no longer trembling when she pressed her head against his chest, although her coat was still marred by scars.

She would heal. No matter what it took, he’d see to it.

Valjean’s life, which had slowly begun to settle into an easy routine, now changed once more. In the early morning, after he’d woken Javert and they’d had breakfast, they left the house together, Valjean sharing Javert’s fiacre for much of the journey, although they’d briefly halt at the fire horses’ stable close to the prefecture, where he would leave Javert.

The stable was busy in the morning, when the powerful fire horses were fed and watered and curried. Valjean had quickly become a familiar sight in the stable, and none of the stable lads and firefighters took particular notice of him anymore when he slipped around the horses getting readied for their exercise. Everyone knew about the mistreated horse that had one day at the beginning of winter appeared in their stable. Lieutenant Delamare had spread the story of how they’d rescued the mare from the cruel cart driver, so that Valjean found himself treated with a quiet respect from the start.

Noiraude, so starved that Valjean had been able to count her ribs, had started to slowly put on weight. The generously-sized stall with clean straw and hay had helped as well—her coat had already recovered some of its old luster.

Her legs had improved as well—slowly, but there was progress. Untiringly, three times every day, Valjean massaged her legs and rubbed the liniment into them. Noiraude, who’d at first stood with her head hanging low, ignoring everything around her as she quietly endured Valjean’s touch, had regained her interest in what went on around her, watching curiously as the massive fire horses were led past her stall.

After a few weeks had passed and the stable master had seen for himself Valjean’s devotion and his quiet, confident manner around the horses, he came forward and offered Valjean a deal.

“We have a few free stalls,” he said, “and it makes no difference if she’s kept here for a while longer. But, if you were willing—instead of paying to have her stabled here, I’d let you have the stall for free if you were willing to help out with the horses. They’re used to you already, and I’ve seen you help with the new gelding yesterday. You have a gentle manner with them, and I could use an additional hand.”

“Give me a day to think about it,” Valjean said, surprised—but finding himself rather liking the proposal.

For all of his worries about Noiraude, he’d come to enjoy the quiet hours spent here with the fire horses. The horses were treated well—the firefighters respected them as their comrades in arms. And no one in the stables cared about who he was. All that mattered was that he was strong and hard-working, and good with the horses.

Would Javert approve of it? Valjean rather thought he would. Javert had always liked Valjean to make himself useful, and there wasn’t enough work around Javert’s apartment to keep him busy the way Javert liked it.

Still, Valjean knew what he’d done when he’d come to Javert’s doorstop in the pouring rain, hoping that Javert might take him in. He’d wanted Javert to hold him once more in that firm, implacable grip. It was Javert’s choice to make, not Valjean’s—and instead of railing against it, Valjean felt comforted by that truth.

Javert, as Valjean had thought, was pleased by the idea. The fire horses were close enough to the prefecture that Javert could come and keep an eye on him at noon, and when Valjean returned the following day, asking only that Doré might be stabled there as well, the stable master happily accepted his deal.

Now Valjean’s days truly developed a firm routine which pleased Javert, and which allowed Valjean to sink once more into the soothing rigidity of a day where all his tasks were set out for him.

Unlike in Montreuil, there were no onlookers sneering at his fall. In the stable, the other workers had already grown to know and approve of his manner with the horses, and Valjean’s strength was no cause for jealousy now, but rather a welcome addition that made their labor easier. Valjean handled the large bales of hay and straw that filled the hayloft with ease and would carry heavy sacks of oats and pails of water without protest. He was calm with the fire horses, his mornings spent currying and brushing the powerful beasts which, at the sound of the fire alarm, would be rapidly harnessed and then drew their heavy wagons through the streets.

There was enough time left to continue to carefully rub Noiraude’s swollen legs with liniment every day, and to exercise Doré, who’d at last been reunited with his old friend. On Sundays, after Mass, Valjean would visit Fantine and Cosette, who was allowed to leave the convent school on this day to spend time with her mother, and although Fantine still seemed doubtful about Javert, she knew Valjean well enough to not bring his decision up again.

***

Javert was seated in his armchair by the stove, his fingers firm around Valjean’s chin as he gazed at him thoughtfully. “It’s good to have you close to the prefecture at all times. I like being able to keep an eye on you.”

Javert’s thumb pressed lightly against Valjean’s mouth, and Valjean allowed his lips to part for it.

Javert gave him a small smile before he finally released him. “Add more wood to the fire. It’s getting cold tonight.”

Valjean inclined his head and did as he was told. When he returned to Javert’s armchair, he found that Javert had been watching him, instead of paying attention to the book that was resting forgotten on his lap.

“How go things with Fantine?” Javert asked quietly.

Valjean lowered his gaze, even as he settled back onto his knees in front of Javert.

“I don’t think she understands why I... Well. Perhaps there’s not much to understand,” he said, some of the old bitterness welling up in him.

What would Fantine say, to see him on his knees in front of Javert—willingly? What would Robert say?

“We do not speak of it now. That is easiest.”

Javert merely nodded.

“How are things going at the stable?” he then asked. 

Valjean offered him a smile. “Noiraude is doing better, truly. Even the farrier agrees. You’ll ride her again, sir. She’s not ready yet to retire to pasture.”

“It would be good to ride her again,” Javert said. “We would be able to ride together... We never did in Montreuil.”

In Montreuil, Javert had taken great delight in the fact that both Doré and Noiraude were at his disposal now. On paper, Doré could never be his—Robert had purchased the Spanish gelding, although he’d given him to Valjean. Still, if Javert had asked it, papers or no, Valjean wold have ceded the golden gelding to him as well.

But Javert hadn’t asked it, although Valjean had surrendered himself to him, together with all that was his. Instead, Javert had offered that promise of a future where they might ride side by side.

“In the spring, sir,” Valjean promised softly. “I know she’ll recover. She misses you. In the spring...”

“In the spring, I’ll take you riding in the Bois de Boulogne on a Sunday,” Javert murmured roughly, reaching out to slide his fingers into Valjean’s hair, and Valjean nodded, breathless and overwhelmed. “Now fetch my bag. I believe I promised you a lesson a while ago...”

Valjean swallowed. What had Javert promised him?

Javert’s bag held no hints as to the promise, but when Valjean presented it to him, Javert merely smiled and took a cloth-wrapped parcel out of it.

“Fetch the oil.”

Valjean’s mouth went dry, but he once again obeyed, still uncertain what lesson it was that awaited. Once he had returned to his position by Javert’s armchair, the lamp oil in his hand, Javert unwrapped the parcel with a small smile.

Valjean’s mouth went dry when he saw what the fabric revealed.

There was no doubt about what the length of polished wood in Javert’s hand was meant to be. Smooth cherry wood had been whittled into the form of a phallus—even the appearance of the glans at the tip had been formed with great care. The smooth, long shaft had been polished to perfection, ending in a small base that would allow it to stand upright.

“I think this will work better than your own fingers, don’t you think?” Javert inquired mildly, and Valjean had to swallow again before he could answer.

“Yes,” sir, he said quietly, unable to look away when Javert drew his fingers over the smooth shaft.

“Use oil.” Javert handed the phallus to him, then settled back in his chair with a satisfied smile. His legs fell open and revealed the arousal that was already stretching his trousers. “Let me see you fuck yourself with it.”

The wood was smooth in Valjean’s hands. He almost spilled the oil, his fingers trembling slightly. Instinctively, he looked up at Javert as he smoothed the oil over the polished wood and found Javert’s eyes on him, warmly amused.

“It’s a gift,” Javert said softly. “You may use it in case work calls me away for a day or two. I don’t want all my hard work to go to waste.”

“Yes, sir. Thank you, sir,” Valjean managed. He flushed at the idea of being expected to use it, all alone in Javert’s bed, while Javert was miles away, thinking of him while he slept in an unfamiliar inn.

“You like that thought well enough,” Javert murmured.

To his chagrin, Valjean found himself unable to deny the accusation, his own cock firm and eager, as it had always been for Javert. Shakily, Valjean moved to his knees and leaned forward. He reached back and spread himself with one hand, but was interrupted by the nudge of Javert’s boot.

“Turn around,” Javert commanded. “Let me see.”

Valjean obeyed, heat rushing to his face once more as he reached back again. This time, he imagined Javert’s eyes on him as he spread himself open, baring his hole to Javert before he pushed the dildo against it.

The wood was slick with oil, but even so it was firm wood instead of the warmth of Javert’s cock. A groan broke free from Valjean’s lips as he tried to work the head of the dildo inside himself—his body yielded, eventually, but the stiffness of it filling him was different.

“Look how hungry for it you are.” Javert’s laugh was low and satisfied.

At Javert’s words, Valjean’s body clutched eagerly at the dildo despite the earlier reluctance, trying to draw it deeper inside. Panting, Valjean pushed, feeling it slowly slide deeper, stretching him open inside. Then the sensation of being stretched gave way to the pressure he knew so well, a fullness that made his body ache and his balls tighten, his back arching instinctively as he clenched down in it with a gasp.

“Don’t stop. All of it, Valjean.”

Moaning helplessly, Valjean pressed down on the base of the phallus while his body shuddered. The wood relentlessly worked him open, exerting pressure deep inside him with every breath he took.

“Good,” Javert praised, and Valjean body contracted helplessly around the phallus in pleasure. “Now come here.”

It was awkward to move, impaled on the wooden shaft, but Valjean crawled shakily back to his place between Javert’s feet. Javert grabbed hold of his chin and made him look up at him, then slowly slid his thumb over his lips before pushing it into his mouth.

“I have no intention of ever leaving you untended to again,” Javert murmured, “but this will do, just in case.”

Valjean made a hungry, broken sound around his thumb, sucking on it while Javert watched him without moving. He could see Javert was hard—but so far Javert had made no move to free himself and push Valjean’s mouth to where he must surely be wanting it.

Javert’s lips rose into another smile, his thumb pressing gently down onto Valjean’s tongue.

“No,” he said. “I have a letter to write.” His smile widened when he withdrew from Valjean’s mouth, his thumb stroking down Valjean’s throat until Valjean had to close his eyes, shivering with need.

“Go and kneel by my desk. I want company while I work.”

The "nine oils" were a 19th century horse liniment; the recipe can be found in The Dictionary of Practical Receipts; Containing the Arcana of Trade and Manufacture; Domestic Economy; Artistical, Ornamental & Scientific Processes; Pharmaceutical and Chemical Preparations, Etc.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert deliberately took his time with the letter.

Every now and then he paused to bury his fingers in Valjean’s hair and instruct Valjean in rising before sitting back down on the phallus. Valjean’s own cock was as hard as the cherry wood of the toy, droplets of his despair smeared over his stomach. The sight made Javert smile. He thought of how warm and stretched Valjean’s hole would be for him, how grateful for his cock—and then he thought of how the swollen muscle had once spread open for his hand, offering no resistance even when Javert slid inside him up to the wrist, exploring him from within with his fingertips until Valjean came utterly apart.

It had been sweet. He wanted that again. He wanted to curl his hand inside Valjean, to savor how soft and yielding he truly was and feel him tremble from the inside.

And he could. Now that Valjean was his once more, he could do as he pleased. He could explore however he liked, torment however he wanted.

But for now, this was enough.

In truth, the letter wasn’t very pressing. He could just as well have written it tomorrow. But there was something particularly delightful about Valjean kneeling next to him, filled to the brim, his cock hard and dripping and his eyes dark and soft as he trembled. His head was resting on Javert’s knee, and he had buried one of his hands in Valjean’s hair.

Back in Montreuil, he’d sometimes indulged in fantasies of sitting in the mayor’s chair, with Valjean on his knees just as he was now.

But having Valjean like this was even sweeter. Javert hadn’t known then that it was possible to tame him, or that Valjean might one day gaze at him with helpless worship as he knelt before him.

Javert sighed, the letter half-written. Valjean had moved forward, his cheek pressing lightly against the bulge in Javert’s trousers. When Javert reached down again to tousle Valjean’s hair, Valjean turned his head and breathed hot air against him before he pressed his mouth to Javert’s clothed cock.

Javert suppressed a moan, his gaze falling once more onto his letter before he reached down.

“Very well,” he murmured. “You’ve earned a treat.”

He freed his cock. As soon as it sprang forward, Valjean’s hungry mouth was on him.

He let Valjean suck him into his throat before he threaded his fingers through his hair once more, gently but firmly setting the pace. Valjean gave way immediately, swallowing around him, his tongue hot and soft. He took him in so deep that Javert could feel the softness of Valjean’s lips nestle around the root of his cock.

Javert touched him with a pleased moan, lightly tracing the bulge in his cheek and then the vulnerable curve of his throat with his thumb before he loosened his grip and allowed Valjean to draw back and breathe.

Valjean was good at this. He knew exactly what Javert liked, and Javert thought for a moment about drawing it out—Valjean was good at that as well. Or else Javert could push him over the desk, pull out the phallus and put Valjean to use—but Javert had spent too long polishing the phallus not to want to see it brought to the end he’d envisioned.

Breathing heavily, Javert pulled Valjean off his cock, his desire rising once more at the sight of Valjean’s swollen lips and glazed eyes.

“Open your mouth,” Javert commanded breathlessly.

Valjean obeyed, gazing up at him. He was shivering with need despite the undignified position.

Slowly, Javert slipped two fingers into that tempting mouth, teasing Valjean, then withdrew to wrap his fingers around his aching cock instead. Valjean watched hungrily, his wet mouth open for him as Javert began stroking himself, making sure to keep his cock just out of reach.

With that alluring sight before him it didn’t take long at all until Javert found release.

The first pulse of his come came spurting across Valjean’s face, dripping down his cheek. The next found its target, ribbons of white spattering over Valjean’s swollen lips and landing on his tongue. Helplessly, Valjean moaned as Javert milked the rest of his release from himself, watching as thick, white droplets spattered all over Valjean’s face.

Javert sighed with deep satisfaction. When he had finished, he reached out and swiped his thumb gently over Valjean’s swollen lips, gathering up some of his release and pushing it into Valjean’s mouth. Valjean’s tongue immediately wrapped around him, hungrily sucking on his finger.

“Now,” Javert said, “now you can finish yourself with the phallus.”

He relaxed back into his chair and took up his pen once more. When he glanced at the half-finished letter, the words began running into each other at the sounds Valjean was making.

Javert stared at his letter for as long as he could, listening to Valjean’s labored breathing, then found that he couldn’t keep up the pretense any longer.

When he looked back down, he saw that Valjean had closed his eyes. Still on his knees, Valjean was now rising and falling, fucking himself on the phallus so that Javert’s stomach clenched with sudden hunger at the thought of Valjean, hands tied behind his back, being made to ride Javert’s cock like that...

Valjean’s eyes flew open, meeting Javert’s, wide and helpless. Then Valjean’s release came spurting over his stomach, Javert’s own seed still glistening on his upturned face.

Javert exhaled heavily, putting his pen away as he looked down at Valjean with a small smile. It was useless to pretend. There would be no more work tonight.

“Look at you,” he murmured affectionately, reaching out again to touch Valjean’s cheek. “You are a mess. It seems you like my gift?”

Valjean swallowed heavily, still gazing up at him. “Yes, sir.”

Javert’s smile widened. “Get yourself cleaned up. It seems I’m not going to get any work done tonight with you around. I’ll find a way to have you make it up to me tomorrow.”

***

All day, snow had been falling. Earlier that week, it had turned into gray slush on the ground; today, it covered houses and streets with a pristine blanket of white.

It was the week before Christmas, and Javert, who usually had little time for such distractions from the work on his desk, had found himself walking more slowly than usual, stopping every now and then to gaze at market stalls and decorated shop windows.

His portress had invited him and Valjean to share their Christmas dinner, and for a moment Javert had found himself struck by the kindness of her offer. A year ago, he would have brushed it away and spent the evening in his apartment, sitting at his desk. This year, he made himself smile at her and come up with an excuse.

It was true that there was always work waiting for him—yet at the same time, now that he was where he’d always wanted to be, was he not at last in a position to indulge himself?

He watched as a small girl came rushing out of a shop, clutching a willow battledore. She was a pretty sight in her little black scholar’s dress—a girl from a convent school, no doubt, her clothes clean and proper, the very image of all Javert labored to protect.

Then she turned around and her eyes widened as she stared up at him.

“Monsieur Javert,” she said breathlessly—and Javert found himself staring in turn.

He hadn’t seen Cosette when he’d visited Fantine, months ago, to return her stolen belongings. But the girl before him was Cosette. There was no doubt of that, although the trembling girl in his memory with her blackened eye and unkempt hair had little in common with the girl before him. His eyes had already skipped over her—a bourgeois family visiting the shops wasn’t the sort of sight that aroused his attention. If anything, he’d kept an eye open for the pickpockets he knew lay in waiting for such families in the days before the New Year’s Day.

A moment later, Fantine appeared. She, too, was wearing clean clothes of good quality. Her dress was made of blue wool, and a warm, woolen cape settled around her, her head covered with an unadorned bonnet. She looked more a governess than the mother of a little convent scholar—but then, Javert knew that Fantine wasn’t paying for Cosette’s tuition.

Strange how fast their fates had turned. For Javert, it had taken a lifetime to drag himself away from his beginnings. For Cosette, it had taken only a year to change from a wretched beggar child into a bourgeois scholar he’d instinctively watched over with approval.

“Good day, Cosette,” he said earnestly, still struck by the strange change.

It should feel wrong to address her with respect, just as it had felt wrong to show Madeleine respect. Instead, it seemed completely natural, as if Cosette had indeed changed from one thing into another—as if such change were possible and not against all he’d once known as truth.

Cosette smiled at him with a dazzling happiness that should have unsettled him even more. Then she turned to greet Valjean with even greater delight, while Javert at last found himself facing Fantine.

The last time they’d met, she’d been guarded. Javert had brought her the clothes Thénardier had stolen, and while she’d been cautiously grateful, he’d known just what her opinion of him was. It hadn’t bothered him then—how many women of her kind had glared at him before?

Today, she was staring at him thoughtfully. Her mouth was tight and narrow—he’d displeased her, and he wondered how until he realized that it had to be Valjean.

Fantine had offered Valjean a new life of freedom behind the convent walls. And instead, Valjean had turned and run straight to Javert, throwing away the freedom they’d all been working for so hard, and for so long.

She blamed him for that. Javert found himself smiling a little—not from triumph, although it was true that to this day, there was little that delighted him more than the daily truth of Valjean’s surrender to him. Still, it was amusing to realize that as much as Fantine wanted Valjean’s happiness, she failed to see the truth that Javert had seen long ago.

Valjean wanted to be owned. Valjean wanted to be able to struggle against Javert’s dictates, all the while feeling perfectly secure in his knowledge that Javert would never loosen his grip on him. Without Javert holding his reins, he might run for a while, like a horse broken free from pasture—but eventually he’d come to a halt, and the misery of being without a master would catch up with him.

“Fantine,” he said. “Good afternoon.”

“Good afternoon, Javert.” She inclined her head, her eyes wary, but also determined.

Cosette wasn’t the only one who’d changed. Fantine had changed, too. There was a new confidence in her—a quiet strength that Javert knew well, as much as he hated the comparison. It was the confidence of a man who’d finally grasped hold of something after clawing his way up, the determination of one who’d known just how far one could fall, and just how little safety there was.

Fantine had made her way out of the misery she’d known in Montreuil, and looking at her now, had found an honest life, a stability she didn’t want to lose.

Javert had felt like that when he’d had his first taste of the comfortable apartment in Montreuil and the fine horse.

“You have been well, I see,” he said.

She looked at him as if she was uncertain whether it had been meant as an insult. “So have you, from what I’ve heard.”

What had she heard, he wondered—what had Valjean told her? Not much, knowing Valjean. Still, she’d known them in Montreuil. Knowing that Valjean had willingly sought out Javert was probably enough to infuriate her, given how much she’d always chafed at taking his orders.

“I have.” Javert have her a smile. When he turned, he could see that Cosette had taken Valjean’s hand, beaming up at him. He turned back to Fantine. “I hardly recognize her. How does she like the convent life? I hope she is working hard.”

“Oh, I am, Monsieur Javert,” Cosette said earnestly before Fantine could answer. “Sister Simplice always tells me that I’m working very hard.”

“She reads as well as I do already,” Fantine said. “Sister Simplice really has been very kind to us.”

Javert inclined his head, not certain where else to take the conversation. Valjean, meanwhile, had lifted Cosette up into his arms, carrying her with ease.

“I was wondering, Javert,” Fantine said after a moment, “whether you might want to share our réveillon after the midnight mass? Madame Martineau has promised us good food and wine.”

Despite her invitation, Fantine looked wary. No doubt she’d been hoping to have Valjean around for her dinner, but knew well enough that he wouldn’t come without Javert. Perhaps not even if Javert told him to. As much as Valjean adored the child, he was certain to feel guilt at leaving Javert to spend the night alone, even if Javert told him that he was used to quiet evenings spent over his work.

For a moment, Javert felt amused when he thought of how Fantine had glowered at him when he’d made her serve him dinner on the rare occasions he hadn’t chosen Valjean to serve him. What would the Fantine of those days think if she could see herself inviting Javert to share her Christmas festivities now?

The thought of dinner wasn’t particularly appealing to him. Still, he thought, Valjean loved the child, and there was no harm in indulging him in that—especially now when Cosette had the strictures of the convent to keep her honest.

“I’m afraid that dinner isn’t possible,” he said lightly, seeing Valjean look up from the corner of his eye. “But perhaps you will allow us to accompany you to mass at midnight, and share a lunch on Christmas Day instead?”

Fantine was still giving him the same wary look he’d once been so used to from Valjean. Was she suspicious because Javert hadn’t agreed to join them for the réveillon, or suspicious that he’d voluntarily offered to spend time together on Christmas Day?

Either way, Valjean had remained quiet, letting Javert make this decision for him although he must have wanted to spend time with them. The thought of that warmed him. Perhaps Valjean merely thought that Javert was exerting his power for the thrill of it—but even so, he’d bend for Javert even in this, without one of the tantrums he’d once been prone to.

“Yes,” Fantine said, her gaze going from Javert to Valjean. A smile appeared on her face at last as she met Valjean’s eyes. “That will do.”

***

It was late in the afternoon, the duty-room in the prefecture lit by the light of lamps and candles while outside, the sun slowly sank towards the horizon. One after the other, streetlamps were being lowered and lit while snowflakes danced in the air. It would be cold tonight—and by the time Javert left, it would be completely dark outside. Still, unlike so many years before, he had a fiacre to take him home, a comfortable apartment to settle in, and Valjean to take his coat, gloves and boots and light the stove for him.

These days, it was good to come home.

Most of the men had already left, those with families eager to return home in anticipation of the Christmas dinner that was awaiting after midnight. For once, Javert had seen no need to keep the men for longer than necessary.

He finished signing a last incident report that had landed late on his desk, then was surprised to see the door open once more and a familiar figure enter.

Javert frowned. He’d thought Rivette had already left—although now that he thought about it, he couldn’t remember him taking his leave.

“Rivette. You’re still here. Is something the matter?”

Javert had hoped to leave early today himself, but of course a pickpocket had no respect for the chief inspector’s wishes.

“About to head out sir,” Rivette said cheerfully, coming to a stop in front of his desk. “I won’t see you tomorrow, so I wanted to wish you a merry Christmas before I leave.”

He held out his hand with a smile. Javert gazed at it, then slowly stood before he took it.

Javert had always worked on Christmas Day for as long as he’d been part of the prefecture—every year, he’d taken Gisquet’s place. This year, Rivette would stand in for Javert for the first time. Surely Rivette wasn’t worried about that? Traditionally, those days were full of incidents that were a nuisance to deal with, but easy enough to handle—drunkards, mostly, and fights that broke out in taverns or brothels. Nothing Rivette couldn’t handle.

“In fact,” Rivette said, “if you’re about done with your work, sir, I wondered if you wanted to go down to Vannier’s for a glass of wine or two. Azeline promised me to hold back a last bottle of the Beaune you liked.”

Javert looked down at Rivette’s hand. He smiled, wondering all of a sudden what might have happened if he’d allowed himself to reach out for Rivette, that one evening in their old lodging house. It was a strange thought. Would he have been content? Would his room have been less empty if he’d invited Rivette into it?

It would have been easier to explain, perhaps, that he was fond of his second and enjoyed his company. Valjean, on the other hand... How would Javert ever explain the fact that he had a former convict living in his apartment?

Still. Javert had spent the afternoon thinking of Valjean’s eyes, shining in the light of lit lamps, that vexing mouth relaxed into a smile.

There was something to return to now. Javert might have no explanation for it, but that didn’t make it any less real.

“I would have liked that, Rivette,” he said, remembering the way Rivette had offered his friendship from the very start, undemanding and hopeful. “But I’m afraid I already have plans. Still. Merry Christmas to you. It’s been a very good year.”

Javert paused a moment to study Rivette’s eyes, noting the disappointment and the quickness with which Rivette sought to hide it behind a smile.

He released Rivette’s hand and gently touched his shoulder. “I know that I can always depend on you. I appreciate that very much. You do good work.”

Rivette’s eyes lit up helplessly, his smile stretching across his face. “Thank you, sir.”

He kept studying Javert for a moment, then slightly nodded. “It has been a good year. And if I may say so, sir... You seem content. And I am glad to see you doing so well.”

Rivette nodded lightly at the Medal of Honor gleaming, as always, on Javert’s breast—but Javert felt quite certain that this wasn’t what Rivette was truly referring to.

“I hope the coming year will be just as good to you.”

Christmas in France in this era is celebrated with a visit to midnight mass on Christmas Eve, after which one returns home and celebrates with a feast that lasts until morning: the réveillon. Children receive little gifts in their shoes (like the golden coin Valjean drops into Cosette’s shoe in Montfermeil in chapter 2-3-8), but adult gift-giving (étrennes) happens on New Year’s Day. Christmas trees are not a custom yet, instead, crèches with their little santons are popular after 1803. Likewise, the bûche de noël is not yet a cake, but the actual wooden yule log which is burned in the hearth and kept burning all night.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Snow was falling in heavy flakes when they left the small church of Petit-Picpus after the midnight mass. Valjean found himself looking around in delight to see the city transformed into something new and strange on their way back, quietness reigning where usually, streets and quays were busy and loud at this time.

Javert had not told him what his plans were, and Valjean had not asked. He would go where Javert led him; it would be enough to walk by his side tonight, enjoying the snowflakes and the crisp, cold air. Still, he thought that Javert must have plans. He didn’t think that Javert would have rejected Fantine’s invitation merely because he didn’t want her company, and when Javert at last stopped before a familiar tavern close to the prefecture, Valjean knew he’d been right.

“I know you would have enjoyed spending the rest of the night with Cosette,” Javert said, “but I’d already asked Azeline to set an alcove aside for me. I thought it would be good to have your company tonight.”

Javert smiled a little wryly, as if he knew that such sentimentality was entirely uncharacteristic for him. There was no need for Valjean to ask—in past years, he was certain, Javert would have worked late on Christmas Eve and then returned home to his room for a quiet dinner on his own.

“We will see her tomorrow,” Valjean said lightly. “I gave Fantine a coin for her shoe—tomorrow, she’ll be less distracted. A child will fall asleep after the first course anyway. I wouldn’t have seen much of her tonight. And you know I’ve never been one for public events.”

“Hardly a public event, is it, to share her landlady’s réveillon,” Javert said, although he sounded as if he, too, found the thought not very appealing.

When they opened the door and entered the wine-shop, they found Vannier’s less busy than might have been expected. At this time, past midnight, it was usually filled with men deep into their drinks, although there was rarely any trouble. It was well-known that it was a favorite spot of the spies of the Rue de Jérusalem, and although Vannier’s wine was good, there was no gambling to be found here.

“Ah, Chief Inspector,” Azeline said, currently cleaning a table near the door. “Papa has two bottles of an excellent red Mâcon for you tonight, and mamma is excited to have you here for our réveillon.”

“Monsieur,” she then greeted Valjean.

She knew him—Javert had brought Valjean to Vannier’s a few times, although Javert had refused to indulge her teasing requests about Monsieur Javert’s mysterious new friend. 

“Merry Christmas,” she said, smiling widely. “You’re wine’s coming in a moment, and I’ll let mamma know you’re here.”

Valjean saw Javert watching her as she abandoned them, her fine linen skirts swirling around her legs as she made her way over to the kitchen.

“I like that girl,” Javert said thoughtfully. “Very pretty too, wouldn’t you agree? She used to be sweet on Rivette. I wonder...”

Valjean had felt his brows knit together, a sudden, inexplicable fear spreading through his chest as he followed Javert’s gaze. It was true that Azeline was pretty. Moreover, she wouldn’t be someone whose existence Javert would have to hide.

Now, his shoulders relaxed a little, as much as he usually felt unsettled by talk of Rivette as well. Javert hadn’t had such close bonds in Montreuil—in Montreuil, all Valjean had ever had to listen to were Javert’s complaints about Gilbert.

Then Javert turned back to him, relaxing in his chair, all thought of Azeline or Rivette already gone from his mind, or so it seemed. Valjean allowed himself to take a deep breath and look around them with renewed interest.

“So this was your plan for the night?” Valjean asked.

“I’d already asked Vannier to reserve this little alcove for me when we ran into Fantine. I didn’t think you’d mind. It’s been a long year—for both of us. The thought of a quiet night and a good meal was appealing.”

There was a small smile on Javert’s lips that kindled new warmth in Valjean.

“It is,” Valjean said softly. “Thank you, sir.”

The wine-shop was warm, a fire crackling in the hearth, the interior illuminated by many candles and lamps. The wine was excellent, rich and deep, and even more than the warm, oaken notes on his tongue Valjean enjoyed Javert’s obvious pleasure. In Montreuil, Javert had clung to what he’d achieved with a furious pride—but now, at last, he seemed at ease, comfortable in the position he’d carved out for himself.

They started with oysters, as was traditional, which they washed down with champagne. Even so the brine of the sea lingered on Valjean’s tongue, but for once it brought not memories of the waves lapping against the prison hulks, but of the salt of Javert’s skin. The oysters were followed by the fine turkey Madame Vannier had roasted for her guests, stuffed with apples and onions and chestnuts. Despite the lateness of the hour, time passed quickly, the bottles of red Mâcon wine emptying steadily as they ate and talked. Through a window across the room, Valjean could see in the light of a streetlamp outside that snow was still falling, and he realized with sudden surprise that he’d never spent a Christmas night feeling so content before.

In Montreuil, he’d secretly distributed coins to the houses of the poorest; there had been meaning in that. Now, he looked up to find Javert gazing at him, eyes warm and his mouth curving into a small smile, and there was meaning in that, too.

For dessert, Madame Vannier served candied chestnuts, as was the custom, together with a selection of figs, brandied fruit, apple and quince jellies as well as apricot and peach ices, followed finally by hot, strong coffee. His fingers wrapped around his cup, Valjean found himself watching Javert again, entranced by those first silver hairs that had appeared in his beard. Had they been at home, Valjean might have given in to his fascination and sought them out with his fingertips, but now he merely smiled helplessly and lowered his head.

“It’s been a good year,” Javert said quietly. “Even with Gisquet in office.” He laughed softly. “To think that it’s been over a year for him—before him, we had five prefects of police within the span of one year. Ah well, I shouldn’t complain. Gisquet has little interest in how I run the prefecture. Another man might be worse.”

Valjean looked around again, realizing once more where they were—a wine-shop favored by the men of the prefecture, where such talk might carry. But the room was half-empty, and their alcove well chosen. No one was sitting near them, and Valjean turned back to Javert with relief.

Javert was watching him, his lips quirking into another small smile. “Don’t worry. Vannier isn’t in the trade of selling rumors. Otherwise I’d hardly have brought you here.”

“Even so,” Valjean said slowly. “Don’t you worry, sir? The chief inspector of the prefecture—if you’re hoping to rise to Gisquet’s position, I would be a liability. If someone were to look for blackmail material...”

Javert toyed with his wineglass, then set it back down. He looked at Valjean, tilting his head a little. The small smile that tugged at his lips had a hint of bitterness.

“No matter how well I perform, a black man will never rise to the position of prefect, and you know it. Perhaps, during the Directory, an American might have found himself prefect. When I was a youth, boys like me were given scholarships for the National Colonial Institute, took the exam for the École Polytechnique... But all that has changed. Even for a man like Gisquet… They’ve given him the Legion of Honor, but you know very well how he earned it.”

Not for his work, Valjean knew that. It took money—money to buy respect and influence, money for Gisquet to buy a house, to be known in his quarter as an eminent and respectable figure.

For Javert to become prefect of police, it wouldn’t take commendable work. To rise there from a position as chief inspector, as Gisquet had, was already exceedingly rare. It took political influence, not experience, and experience was all Javert had.

Then, suddenly, Valjean remembered that there was that final secret he’d kept from Javert. The offer he’d never made.

“Sir,” he said softly. “If it is influence you want... You know my factory was very successful.” Valjean swallowed. “You must remember the six hundred thousand francs. If you were to purchase a house in a good quarter, choose a business to invest in, impress the electors—”

Javert laughed. “Impress them? Do you think that very likely? No, you know as well as I that it won’t happen. But, to come back to that certain sum...”

Valjean felt heat rise to his face and he averted his eyes. Even now, when he’d given himself to Javert so completely, when his surrender was as absolute as he could make it, old instinct made his stomach twist at having that final lifeline threatened.

“I told you,” he said roughly. “I don’t want a way out. I’m yours. I don’t want anything else. I paid for Cosette’s tuition in the convent, but that is all I used it for. I thought perhaps I should give the rest to Fantine—”

“Ha!” Javert said darkly. “Always that woman with you.”

Valjean ignored him. “I didn’t think you’d want the money, but it is yours—just as I am. Just as Doré is.”

Javert exhaled heavily, leaning forward. The alcove shielded them from view, but even so Valjean found himself shivering and looking up in sudden shock when Javert’s hand closed around his wrist.

“I don’t want you to be mine just because you don’t have a way out. I want you to be mine completely.”

Javert wrapped his hand lightly around Valjean’s wrist. Valjean didn’t dare to move. Then Javert’s thumb pushed down, hard, and Valjean found himself breathless, unable to move even if he’d wanted to as his stomach tightened and something throbbed low between his legs.

Javert was watching him intently, and now his lips curved into a small, satisfied smile.

“You already are mine,” Javert said quietly. “If I asked you to go down to your knees, right now and here, you would.”

Valjean nodded shakily, unable to look away from Javert’s eyes. They both knew he would, if Javert asked it—even here, where everyone could see.

The thought was horrifying, and utterly arousing.

“That’s what I want,” Javert murmured. “Whether you have the money or not, you’re mine already.”

Javert’s thumb slowly relaxed against his pulse, but kept resting in place, slowly stroking the inside of his wrist. It took a moment until Valjean had gathered himself enough to talk.

“Then—you do not want it, sir?”

“It’s tempting,” Javert admitted, “but no. I don’t want your money. I have the respect I want now.”

“You could have a carriage, sir, and an opera box.”

“Oh, I want all of that,” Javert said. “You know very well that I do. But I won’t take it from you. I won’t spend every day looking at you and remembering that everything I have I owe to you. I think—I think you wouldn’t like the man I’d become very much.” A small smile played on his lips. “I prefer having you the way I have you now. You’re all mine. And that is never going to change, Jean Valjean.”

Valjean inclined his head, strangely heartened by Javert’s declaration, even though it hadn’t resolved his initial conundrum.

He was content with what he had. Perhaps he could have been just as content if he’d vanished into the convent instead, never to emerge again from behind its walls—but that was difficult to believe now when he no longer woke at night to darkness weighing down at him until he felt himself crushed beneath it.

These days, he woke to the presence of Javert, the warmth of his skin, the demands of his hands and his mouth, and the discipline he kept struggling against until all the terror passed and he found himself at peace beneath Javert’s hands.

Perhaps Fantine would never entirely understand, but it felt right, the same way the happiness offered to him before had felt wrong.

It was shortly before sunrise when they returned to Javert’s apartment. They could hear the church bells ringing, the sound quieted by the still falling snow.

Valjean took Javert’s coat and hung it by the door before he took off his own coat, then went towards the stove to add wood to the embers to warm the room.

When he turned away from it, he saw that Javert had already taken another bottle of wine from the cupboard, and, instead of waiting for Valjean to serve him, filled two glasses.

“Here,” Javert said, holding out his glass to him. “I was saving this one.”

They drank quietly, the room illuminated by the fire in the stove and the candle Javert had lit, standing together by the window and gazing outside as the sun began to rise. The snow fell heavily enough that not much was visible. It was a comforting feeling. All the world had fallen away. For a moment, nothing else seemed to exist but the warmth of their room and Javert’s presence beside him.

“I won’t take your money,” Javert said all of a sudden, “but there is something you will do for me.”

Valjean gazed at him curiously.

Javert took a step forward, one hand still holding the wineglass. The other now curved around Valjean’s face, the pad of his thumb pressing against Valjean’s bottom lip.

“You are not allowed to give all of it away,” Javert whispered. “Give some to Fantine—half of it, for all I care. But you will keep some, and you will keep it somewhere you can access it—I know there are ways for men like you. You don’t have to tell me where and how. But when something happens to me—or if someone were to recognize your face somewhere, if Robert loses his appointment as mayor, or his fortune—you will have that money hidden somewhere.”

“I don’t need it, sir—” Valjean began, and Javert immediately tightened his grip around his chin.

“It was not a question,” he said, his eyes sparking with sudden displeasure. “Do you understand me?”

Valjean drew in a trembling breath, a shudder running through him at the hard cast of Javert’s mouth and the fierceness of his voice.

“Yes, sir,” he said, holding himself still while Javert looked at him, his brows still drawn together in a half-frown as if he were accessing Valjean’s truthfulness.

Then Javert nodded and released his chin.

“You will never run from me,” Javert said, his eyes intense. “I will not let you. You have no choice in that.”

Valjean exhaled and nodded shakily. A moment later, Javert’s hand twined in his cravat and Valjean found himself pushed against the wall.

Snow kept falling as Javert kissed him until Valjean had forgotten all about his fears, all about that old burden of guilt, even about the coin that had branded itself into his palm. He wrapped his arm around Javert’s shoulder, allowing himself to be kissed until he was breathless, Javert’s body hard and relentless in his embrace—as dependable as granite. Valjean yielded himself to it joyfully as the warmth of the stove filled the room, while outside, snow was continuing to cover the roofs of Paris and the church bells kept ringing.

In the late 18th century in France, "American" was used as a synonym of "man of color".

I'm assuming that BBC-verse Javert was also born around 1780, which means that he would have been old enough to experience the period during the Directory when black and mixed-raced legislators were elected and the government established an elite boarding school where not only the children of wealthy black and white families were educated, but also black scholarship students were accepted. Given Javert's age, he would have grown up during a period of diminishing racism, only to suddenly find himself an adult in a France of growing racism (e.g. in 1801 the government refused to keep paying for black students at the Institute and sent its students of color to orphanages instead).

For more information about this period I can recommend The Black Count, Tom Reiss.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The new year had started well. Rivette had for once far exceeded Javert’s expectations with an arrest in a notorious gambling den that had proceeded perfectly. Baudelot, who had slipped through Javert’s fingers for years like an eel, was now safely behind bars in La Force. For a long time now, Javert had been certain that Baudelot had paid off the police. It was common enough, after all. Many a chief of police made their living more from blackmail and embezzlement than the salary paid to them. Javert, too, could have long since put away enough money to afford larger rooms or expensive dinners, and the thought had risen in him every now and then when he contemplated Gisquet’s Legion of Honor and his rise to prefect.

And yet, Javert was content enough with what he had now. The power he held at the prefecture was immensely satisfying. The changes he’d made were beginning to pay off—especially now, when it seemed that even Baudelot was no longer able to pay his way out of the prefecture’s investigations. And the power Javert held at home was even more satisfying. These days, he was no longer tempted to spend all of his evenings at his desk in the Rue de Jérusalem, now that a more pleasant task was awaiting him at home.

But no matter how well the year had started, it could not last.

Javert stared down at the report on his desk, then grabbed it and crumpled it up in his fist before he furiously threw it at the wall. Rivette, who’d brought the report to his desk, had wisely chosen to stay out of his way.

The entire duty-room was silent, none of the men willing to make a sound for fear of drawing his attention to them.

Javert reached out for his cane, clenching his jaw. Baudelot had escaped La Force. Impossible to make such an escape without helpers.

He’d worked day and night to make the prefecture respectable, at last managing to root out corruption among his own men enough to be able to arrest Baudelot without someone tipping him off—and yet it wasn’t enough. All that work for nothing.

Who knew how far that corruption spread. Had it been only a watchman that had been bribed? Or did Baudelot’s influence spread further—the superintendent of the jail? The prefect himself?

Javert’s cane came down hard onto his desk. Even Rivette jumped at the sound.

“I’m going out,” Javert said. “I expect all incident reports of this afternoon on my desk when I return.”

“Yes, sir,” Rivette said.

Javert ignored him when he strode out.

***

The stable of the fire brigade was situated across the street from the prefecture, near the Quai des Orfèvres. 

Javert was no stranger to it; his work meant that he had often had occasion to interact with the fire fighters. Nowadays, though, Javert’s visits came more often. It was, or so the men of the fire brigade thought, because the chief inspector’s own horses were stabled in the barracks with the powerful, white draft horses, while the man they assumed to be Javert’s groom had found additional work in the brigade’s stable.

The fire barracks seemed quiet when Javert entered the courtyard. The stable, too, was mostly empty. Only two of the immense horses watched him stride past their stalls. At this time of the day, most of the horses were outside for their daily exercise with the wagons and machinery they pulled whenever the fire alarm was sounded.

Javert halted and looked around.

Dust was dancing in the air. A cat gazed at him, perched on a beam where it enjoyed a ray of sunlight. It yawned indolently, then closed its eyes.

Javert took a deep breath. The air smelled of horses and straw, and the fury and frustration he’d carried with him ever since he’d left the prefecture changed into the slow throb of anticipation.

Doré and Noiraude were stabled at the end of the long corridor. No one else seemed to be about.

When Javert approached, Doré’s ears turned towards him. He made a low rumble of welcome, watching Javert with eager eyes until Javert strode past him, Doré’s ears turning back when he picked up on Javert’s mood.

In the neighboring stall, Noiraude stood. No one who had seen her collapse in the snow at the beginning of winter would recognize her now. She’d regained some of the weight she’d lost, her ribs no longer protruding. Her formerly dull coat now shone a deep, spotless brown.

Javert wasn’t surprised to find Valjean kneeling next to her, carefully rubbing liniment into her legs. When she saw him, Noiraude nickered in welcome, and Valjean looked up, unsurprised.

“Sir,” he said warmly before his eyes widened, no doubt picking up on Javert’s mood as well.

Not that it would do him much good, Javert thought with that deep, old pleasure spreading inside him. Valjean was trained well enough these days to submit to Javert’s commands. It had taken a long time to get to that point—and today was the sort of day when Javert would take great delight in testing his obedience.

“How is she?” Javert asked with a nod at Noiraude.

“Doing well, sir.” Valjean rose, gently running his hand along her neck. “I haven’t put a saddle on her yet, but I had her trotting around the barn today. Her legs didn’t trouble her. Next week, we might start her with a rider, see how that goes.”

Noiraude curiously nosed at Javert’s hand, but he had forgotten to bring her a treat. He stroked her head in apology.

“You are done here?” he asked instead.

Valjean straightened with some of the old wariness, although his answer came promptly and respectfully. “Yes, sir.”

Javert drew in a deep breath, then nodded at where a ladder led up into the hayloft. “Up there.”

Javert watched as Valjean immediately climbed up without protest. The ladder creaked at every step, and Javert nodded in satisfaction. The stable might be empty right now, but he would hear if someone else were to use the ladder.

Idly, Javert twirled his cane between his fingers as his gaze passed over the empty stalls. Then he smiled when his eyes alighted on a familiar tool.

Next to a sack of oats, a riding crop was leaning against the dusty wall. It was longer than Javert’s own crop—designed to give commands to the large fire horses from the ground instead of underlining a command from horseback.

Still, it suited his purpose very well, and Javert felt the thrill of anticipation growing when he went to fetch it.

It felt good in his hand. He weighed it, then gave it a tentative swoosh. It was thinner than his own riding crop but flexible, the leather grip smooth and soft from use. It cut through the air with a satisfying sound that resonated deep in Javert’s stomach.

He moistened his lip as he looked at it. Then he went up the ladder himself.

Valjean was awaiting him, standing in front of the bales of hay and straw that filled half of the hayloft. After the past summer, the loft would have been filled up to the rafters; now, after the long winter, the supply had dwindled, although enough remained that a man could hide behind the small towers and walls formed by the bales.

Valjean hadn’t hidden. He knew better than to provoke Javert in such a way—although if he had, Javert thought with furious hunger, he’d have taught him such a lesson that he wouldn’t dare to do so again anytime soon.

Instead, Valjean quietly awaited him, eyes wide and dark despite the deep lines of worry that lined his mouth.

Javert smiled at the sight and bent the riding crop between his hands, testing the flexibility. Then he slapped it against his boots, gratified to see Valjean flinch at the sound. Valjean was already breathing faster; soon enough, those eyes would be furious and resentful, before, in the end, he’d give himself over anyway.

“Strip,” Javert said. “Don’t make me wait. I’m not in a good mood.”

The earlier frustration still burned through him. Even watching Valjean obey before he’d even finished his sentence wasn’t enough to get rid of it, although the throb of anticipation eased the anger gnawing at him and made it easier to keep in control if it.

Last year, perhaps, he’d have taken it out on Rivette—or Martel, perhaps, who’d never entirely let go of his resentment that it was Javert who had risen instead of him. But now, there was a better alternative than shouting at the useless sluggards under his command.

Valjean hastily folded his clothes and put them aside, and Javert gestured at the bale of straw behind him.

“Bend over it,” he said curtly.

Light fell in through a round window at the back of the hayloft. Dust was dancing in the warm light when Valjean arranged himself, his scarred back and the powerful, round buttocks bared to Javert’s gaze.

It had been a while since he’d taken his mood out on Valjean’s hide. There were no warm, red marks decorating the tempting swell of his backside, marking him as Javert’s and reminding Valjean of that truth as he worked. But that was going to change in a moment.

The earlier seething frustration and fury about events out of his power had turned into something hot and throbbing and sharp, a hunger that had taken root deep in his stomach, pulsing with every beat of his heart.

Slowly, Javert allowed the tip of his crop to slide up Valjean’s thigh.

Valjean exhaled when it teased against his balls, a shiver running through him, but he didn’t move or try to protect himself. A moment later, Javert lifted the crop, stroking the side of Valjean’s buttocks with it instead as anticipation kept building inside him.

His heart was racing, his stomach tight, the earlier frustration all but forgotten now at the sight of the seductive curve of Valjean’s buttocks.

“Keep silent,” he said.

Then the crop came down the first time with a satisfying swoosh. At the impact, a ripple ran through Valjean’s buttocks and he flinched. Immediately, a red welt sprang up, and Javert drew in a sharp breath at the heat that struck him at the sight with as much force as the crop had struck Valjean.

He raised his arm. Once more the crop cut through the air, biting into Valjean’s skin. This time, Valjean gasped, and if he’d allowed him to turn around, Javert was certain that he’d be able to see tears build up in Valjean’s eyes.

Instead, he raised the crop and let it fall again, heat rushing through him at the welts that now decorated Valjean’s buttocks.

He didn’t ease up. Instead, he slightly changed his stance to switch attention to the other side of Valjean’s backside.

By now, he could see that Valjean was struggling to remain quiet, his breath hitching and rough, his shoulders shaking. The thought to keep going until Valjean was sobbing was tempting—never more so than when he was confronted with the full physical splendor of the powerful body, the muscles as impressive as the heavy draft horses stabled below, and all of it subject to Javert’s whims.

Javert licked his lips, allowing the tip of the crop to slowly slide down the crease between Valjean’s buttocks to tease against the tight hole, then rubbing warningly against the heavy balls. Valjean’s breath hitched again and he trembled, but he didn’t move. If Javert were to strike here, he’d have the sobs he wanted. How satisfying it would be, to be able to mete out that kind of punishment on a whim and have Valjean yield to it, to make him kiss the crop with tears in his eyes afterward—

Javert reached down to press the heel of his hand hard against his aching cock, resisting to urge to take himself into hand. Instead, he raised the crop once more and delivered two harsh, decisive strokes to the upper swell of Valjean’s buttocks, bright red welts springing up immediately. Valjean’s entire backside was now decorated with thin stripes of hot red.

Then Javert let go of the crop and approached.

“I bought a present for you,” he murmured. “I wanted to give it to you this evening—but I think I shall let you have it now.”

Valjean was too overcome to speak, but it was gratifying enough to listen to the rough breathing, the hitch of tears, to feel him tremble when Javert cupped his aching buttocks and felt the heat of the welts against his palms.

“Look at you,” Javert said in quiet satisfaction, his thumb straying towards the crease to search out Valjean’s hole.

Valjean trembled again when he rubbed against it, but there was no resistance; even without oil, the tip of his thumb slipped in easily enough with a little pressure.

Javert smiled at the sight, teasing the tight rim of his hole before he pulled out and reached into his pocket. He drew out a length of string, attached to which were several beads, each a little larger than his thumb.

He slicked Valjean’s hole with his spit, then pressed the first bead against it and watched as the stretched muscle swallowed it greedily.

“I knew you’d like this,” he said, then pushed the second bead against the ring of muscle.

This time, he could feel Valjean shiver, his hole contracting in surprise before it yielded to him again, spreading wide around the polished bead before Valjean’s body hungrily pulled it inside.

Tenderly, Javert stroked Valjean’s buttocks, feeling Valjean’s breath hitch again when his fingers ran over the red-hot welts. Valjean did not even know what was penetrating him—but he would surrender to it all the same, because what went inside him was Javert’s decision to make, not his own.

There were five beads in total attached to the string. By the time Javert pressed the last one against him, Valjean was trembling, his breathing shaky and labored not from pain but from undeniable pleasure.

Javert watched as the swollen muscle obediently spread open for him, then closed tightly around the bead once it was inside. He rubbed his thumb against it in approval. This time, Valjean couldn’t hold back a soft, tortured moan.

“Get up,” Javert said and took a step back.

His own arousal was still pressing distractingly against the confines of his trousers, but it would be easy enough to deal with that. Valjean’s mouth was right here, after all—although perhaps it would be more satisfying to draw it out until the evening, so that he could spend the remainder of his day at his desk, warmed by thoughts of Valjean carrying the heavy beads inside him.

When Valjean turned around, his eyes were indeed glistening with tears. His mouth had a familiar, sensitive cast to it and was surrounded by deep, pained lines. But there was none of the old stubbornness in him.

Although Valjean’s chest was heaving, his skin glistening with perspiration like a horse that had been put through its paces, he was loose-limbed, his eyes wide and dark as he gazed at Javert with that strange, overwhelmed softness that could only been drawn forth by Javert’s discipline.

“Come here,” Javert commanded.

He watched with the deep glow of satisfaction as Valjean took a shaky step towards him only to tremble and gasp. His tear-wet eyes widened as the beads inside him provided a firm massage at every step, the round beads moving inside him and rubbing against his inner walls, every motion reminding Valjean of their pleasurable presence—and of the fact that it was Javert who had done this to him.

He’d learn today that Javert could touch and torment him even if he wasn’t there.

“This will stay inside you until I take it out myself. Do you understand me?”

Another shaky nod as Valjean swallowed. “Yes, sir.”

His voice was rough with tears, and at last, Javert gave in to his desire and came forward, burying his hands in Valjean’s disheveled hair. Javert kissed him slowly, savoring the desperation with which Valjean yielded to him, his tongue sliding against Valjean’s until Valjean moaned.

Below them, a horse nickered quietly. Warm sunlight filtered in through the dusty window, small pieces of straw dancing in the rays of light.

Javert released Valjean’s hair to curve his hand around his glowing buttocks instead, squeezing the firm, round muscle in appreciation so that Valjean flinched against him and gasped, melting against Javert—a finer possession than any horse in the stables below. Finer than Noiraude, finer than Doré—finer even than the Legion of Honor on its scarlet ribbon on Gisquet’s breast.

Javert took a deep breath and released Valjean, thinking once more of the smooth, heavy beads sliding against each other deep inside him.

No one would be able to tell from looking at Valjean, once he’d dressed. No one would know—except for Javert, sitting in the prefecture with the day’s remaining work, thinking of Valjean currying the massive fire horses in the afternoon, aware of Javert’s beads inside him with every move he made.

Perhaps it would be a good day after all.

Only the epilogue left now!And please check out the incredible beautiful art MagicFishHook drew of these two: https://archiveofourown.org/chapters/70329324


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


On a bright Sunday morning in spring, Valjean woke to the familiar sensation of warm skin against his own and an arm slung around his waist. He smiled, even before he opened his eyes, awash with the awareness that it was Sunday, that Javert would not go to the Rue de Jérusalem today and Valjean would not go to the fire brigade’s barracks, that a leisurely breakfast was waiting for them before they’d go to mass at Petit-Picpus’s small church, and that the rain he had so feared had not materialized overnight.

Instead, the morning light that fell in through the window was already warm and bright. He could hear a chorus of birds singing in the bushes that lined the yard beneath their window, mingling with the sound of hooves as visitors arrived or neighbors left to visit friends in turn.

When Valjean opened his eyes, he found Javert still deeply asleep, relaxed in his arms. Awed, he gazed at him, unable to look away from the usually so stern features, now soft and vulnerable.

There were a few more silver hairs in Javert’s beard than there had been when Valjean had arrived at his doorstep in the rain a few months ago. Valjean raised his hand to touch them gently, then brushed his hand against Javert’s cheek before he leaned over him to let his lips follow where his fingers had strayed.

Javert’s skin was warm against his lips, his beard rough. There was a slight remnant of the cologne Javert preferred. Valjean trailed his lips downward, kissing Javert’s bared throat where his pulse throbbed beneath the skin.

Javert sighed softly but didn’t wake, and Valjean raised himself up on his arms to gaze down at him in deep affection before he gently pulled back the blanket.

Warm morning sunlight poured over Javert. Valjean followed the path it took, kissing his way downward to a small nipple, across the firm plane of Javert’s chest, down the smooth skin of Javert’s stomach to the light scattering of hair below his navel.

He kissed his way further down, brushing his lips against Javert’s inner thighs, then mouthing gently at his balls, breathing in the warm scent of him as Javert’s slumbering cock slowly began to stir. Before he’d fully risen, Valjean drew him into his mouth. He kept his eyes open, fixed on the vision of Javert spread out before him in the golden sunlight, waking to pleasure—as he’d wake every morning, as long as Valjean was by his side.

Javert’s cock was hardening in his mouth as Javert moaned sleepily. Valjean drew back a little to fasten his lips around the crown, sucking on it in encouragement before he dipped back down. He could already taste the first traces of Javert’s coming pleasure, the salt of him spreading in his mouth as Javert slowly began to stir.

Lovingly, Valjean moved up and down, Javert hot and heavy on his tongue. Then he bobbed down once more and swallowed Javert into his throat, ignoring the burning of his eyes as he relaxed for Javert until he could feel him stretching his throat, his nose buried deep in the wiry curls at the root of Javert’s cock.

With a sleepy sound of approval, Javert’s hand came to rest on his head. His fingers twined into Valjean’s hair as he kept him in place, Javert’s hips lazily pumping against him a few times before Javert’s grip relaxed and Valjean drew back to breathe.

Droplets of pleasure were leaking from the tip now, and Valjean kissed them away worshipfully, Javert’s thumb idly rubbing against his lips. Valjean turned his head to kiss Javert’s fingers before he returned his attention to Javert’s swollen cock, licking it attentively from root to tip, heat rising in him at the heavy, approving gaze resting on him.

Hungrily, he drew Javert into his mouth again. Valjean could feel the thick, heavy presence of his cock slide down into his throat as Javert moaned, his fingers twining into Valjean’s hair once more.

When Javert came moments later, Valjean swallowed convulsively around him as he pulsed in his mouth. Valjean kept his eyes upon through it all, watching Javert come undone in the warm light of the spring sun, spread out in their bed—glorious in the abandon with which he gave himself over to his release, his damp skin gleaming in the sunlight, his head thrown back.

Valjean swallowed all Javert had to give, lapping up anything that had escaped him until Javert sighed and nudged him away from his softening cock, smiling at him.

“Good morning,” Valjean said, smiling back, perfectly content to settle against Javert once more when Javert’s arm wrapped around him.

“Good morning.” Javert nudged Valjean’s hard cock with his thigh but ignored it otherwise as he leaned over Valjean and kissed him slowly. 

This time, it was Valjean who raised his hand, lightly stroking the back of Javert’s head before he let his hand rest against his nape, his mouth opening for his exploration.

“Shall I do something about this?” Javert asked when he drew back at last, lightly trailing a finger along Valjean’s neglected length. His eyes gleamed, a corner of his mouth turning up. “It will be your choice today. I can deal with this now—or you can choose to wait until this evening, and there will be a surprise for you.”

Valjean shivered, his cock eagerly pressing against Javert’s hand. He had to swallow before he could speak.

“It can wait, sir,” he said, a warm glow of a different satisfaction filling him when Javert gazed at him with quiet pride.

“In that case, you’d better get up.” Javert laughed quietly, so that Valjean’s chest ached with the wealth of emotion that filled it at the sound. “It will be a long day. You’ll need your breakfast.”

***

It was noon by the time they left the small church of Petit-Picpus, and another hour until they reached the Bois de Boulogne, the generous forest that spread west of Paris. Formerly a royal hunting ground, now it was where much of Paris gathered on the weekends, carriages with elegantly-dressed people promenading up and down, gentlemen on fine horses eying the ladies and their dresses as they slowly cantered past.

One such carriage seemed eager to escape the bustle of Paris’s bourgeoisie turned out to impress, taking the first turn opening up that led away from the crowds and towards a quieter stretch of meadows and forest. Within the cabriolet, a well-dressed woman in her early twenties sat, wearing a crape bonnet, a pelisse of sarcenet silk and a cape made of black damask. By her side sat a young girl in the sober brown and gray of a young convent scholar.

Behind the cabriolet, two men rode side by side, one on a fine horse with a rare coat of gold that gleamed in the spring sun, the other on a lively, bay mare eager to stretch her legs. A sharp-eyed observer might have noticed old, pale scars that ran across her croup and flanks, but they were covered by the gleaming coat of dark brown that had been brushed to a shine.

“She has held up well,” Valjean said, who had been keeping an eye on Noiraude during their ride from the city to the forest.

So far she truly had performed well, although they hadn’t yet let her go faster than a trot. She had recovered very well from the ordeal of her former life as a cart horse—with a lot of patience, Valjean had proved the farrier wrong and nursed her back to health. While perhaps she’d never again make the ride from Paris to Montreuil under Javert as she once had, her fine features had drawn many eyes as she trotted through the Bois de Boulogne with Javert on her back.

Javert too looked fine today, the first silver hairs in his beard giving him a becoming appearance of sternness that was softened by the pleasure warming his eyes and by the smile that softened his features every now and then when he looked at Valjean or remarked on Noiraude’s fine form.

Javert had acquired a new riding coat of a cool slate gray that paired well with the sea foam silk of his cravat. Today, on the occasion of Noiraude’s first outing to the Bois de Boulogne, he wore it for the first time. Valjean felt his eyes drawn to him again and again, lingering on the elegant image he made on the spirited mare.

Valjean had dressed well for the day at Javert’s urging, wearing the clothes in which Robert had sent him to Paris. Seated on his golden gelding, Valjean had drawn admiring eyes as well—although in truth, he felt more at ease when currying the powerful fire horses than dressing up as a bourgeois, even at Javert’s behest.

“She’s as energetic as a filly,” Javert said and ran an admiring hand down her neck. “Look at her. She’s eager to run.”

“You two go ahead if you want,” Fantine called out from her cabriolet. “Wait for us by the lake. We’ll meet you there.”

Fantine looked just as fine on this sunny spring day as Javert. It had taken some arguing to get her to accept Valjean’s money, and when she had finally agreed, Valjean had imagined her leading the life she should have had, if her past lover hadn’t betrayed her: the beautiful dresses she’d once worn, many friends with whom to laugh, a box at the opera, a suitor who wouldn’t abandon her.

Instead, Fantine had chosen to buy half the business that had employed her when she’d returned to Paris with Cosette, with the agreement that when the old couple would retire in a few years, she’d purchase the remaining half from them.

“There’s much I have still to learn,” she told Valjean, who’d been stunned and uncertain that she still thought she had to work. “I’ve already lost everything twice—it’s not going to happen again, not when I have Cosette to care for. And my bookkeeping is atrocious, just ask Madame Martineau. I’ll be glad to have her to learn from for a while yet!”

Fantine had, at least, given up the small room beneath the Martineaus’ roof she’d lived in so far, and now rented a spacious, bright apartment on the second floor in the same street. She did not keep a carriage, although she had at least acquired a new wardrobe and would rent a fiacre on the weekends she spent with Cosette.

She had even twice succeeded in arguing Javert into accompanying her to the opera—less, Valjean knew, because she enjoyed Javert’s company so much and more because she wanted to keep an eye on how Valjean was treated.

Still, knowing Javert, he must have enjoyed the chance of accompanying a beautiful young woman to the opera in his best clothes, with the Medal of Honor on its green-and-white ribbon gleaming on his breast. Valjean, in turn, had enjoyed the chance to see Fantine so happy. This was the life she had deserved all along, and despite the brand of the coin that would forever mark his palm, some of the burden he’d carried with him for so long had lifted when he’d watch her walk on Javert’s arm beneath the gleaming chandeliers with a glass of wine in her hand, laughing freely, drawing many admiring eyes which so far she’d been happy to ignore.

Noiraude snorted, prancing next to him and playfully shaking her head to protest against Javert’s hold on her reins. Javert, for all that he still kept the spiked bit in his bedside drawer, always was exceedingly gentle with her mouth, even after her injuries had healed. Still, so far, he’d made certain to rein her in nevertheless while they patiently waited for her legs to recover.

“Shall I let her have her way?” Javert asked, nodding towards the meadow hat stretched before them.

Far ahead, they could see trees where the forest began once more. If they followed the path through it, they would eventually reach another meadow next to a lake.

The ground was soft with new grass, easy on Noiraude’s recovering ankles. Valjean took another look at Noiraude who was eagerly mouthing her bit, straining against Javert’s hand. No one who saw her now would have recognized in her the half-starved horse that had collapsed in the snow half a year ago.

“Let her run,” Valjean said. “She’s ready.”

Javert drew a hand over her neck, then loosened the reins. Just like that, Noiraude sprang forward, foam flying from her mouth as for the first time in many months, she was allowed to stretch her legs with Javert on her back—first a canter, then her neck came forward as she broke into a full gallop, her brown coat gleaming in the bright light of the sun.

Doré gathered himself beneath Valjean, and after a moment’s deliberation, Valjean gave him his head as well. Soon, both of them were flying after Javert and Noiraude, Doré’s body stretching beneath him as they raced towards the forest. Valjean buried his hands in Doré’s mane, breathing in the scent of grass and warm soil as the powerful body labored beneath him.

The sun shone brightly, warming his face. Before him, Noiraude and Javert ran, straight as an arrow. By the time they caught up with them, Valjean had taken up the reins once more, gently holding Doré back just a little, his head in line with her hindquarters, so that she wouldn’t feel pressed to overexert herself by competitiveness.

The forest loomed ahead of them now. They slowed to a canter, then to a trot. Although patches of Noiraude’s coat had darkened with sweat, she seemed just as energetic as before, snorting with deep satisfaction as she mouthed the bit, moving with wide, elastic strides as Valjean watched her legs carefully.

At last, they slowed to a walk when they entered the shaded path that wound beneath the boughs of the forest. They’d left Fantine’s carriage behind and were content to walk slowly now, letting the horses recover.

“In the summer,” Valjean said, “we might send her out to pasture. There’s a small farm near Saint-Cloud the farrier told me about—he used to work there a few years ago.”

“Oh?” Javert said. “Do you think she needs more time to recover?”

Valjean shook his head, watching Noiraude again who looked utterly content, her ears curiously pointed forward, moving with clear, long strides.

“She did well today,” he said. “It’s not that. It’s the stud they own—a fine Arab, fast as lightning and gentle as a doe. Our farrier reckons he’d sire a very fine foal with Noiraude as the dam.”

Javert tilted his head, considering.

“I want to see the stallion first,” he said, although he looked pleased at the thought, just as Valjean had imagined he would.

He didn’t say what else he’d spent the past week thinking about—Javert’s order to make certain he’d have a hiding-place, somewhere to run if ever Javert or Robert were unable to keep his past buried. The old farrier had not simply advised him on the Arab stud, but also encouraged him not to wait too long with his decision, for while the stallion was very fine and of excellent lineage, the small farm was mainly kept afloat by its small orchards, and had been doing badly after the farmer’s only son absconded with much of his parents’ money.

If Valjean were to buy the farm and employ the old couple to keep it running for him, not only would they be able to send Noiraude to pasture there or breed her to the red Arab and have her foals reared on the farm’s meadows, but Valjean would have a place where he could hide if anything were to happen.

Not that it was very likely, with Javert the chief inspector of the prefecture and Robert mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer. Nevertheless, while Valjean had come to cherish the knowledge that he would never again be able to run from Javert, the farm wasn’t an escape from him. It would be something they could share, and if Valjean bought it under a fake name, no one would ever be able to connect it to the chief inspector.

And perhaps, one day, when it was time for Javert to retire, they might see Noiraude’s grandchildren race over their own meadows...

The thought was beautiful, although Valjean could not, in truth, imagine Javert away from the streets of Paris.

Still. It was what Javert had asked of him. The farm would be a promise of security—the knowledge that no matter what, Valjean would never again return to the hulks. Valjean would be free.

He looked up and breathed in the spring air, listening to the rustling of leaves around them and the quiet sounds of the forest. He was free. He truly was free, despite the brand in his palm. The knowledge no longer frightened him, for Javert was beside him, ready to remind him with a warning tug on Valjean’s own reins whenever Valjean forgot the most important truth of all.

“Next weekend, sir?” Valjean asked. “If the weather holds. We could ride to Saint-Cloud and take a look at that stallion.”

“Next weekend,” Javert agreed, his eyes warm as he looked at Valjean, his lips turned up—proud, Valjean thought, helplessly in love; proud of all he’d achieved and of all that belonged to him. Proud of his fine horse and his fine clothes and most of all, proud of Valjean.

Valjean nudged Doré closer, and Javert’s smile turned into a soft laugh, as if he knew what Valjean wanted. The forest was still silent. They were still all alone, their horses contentedly walking forward.

Then Javert leaned towards him, his hand cupping his cheek, and Valjean found himself pulled into a kiss. Javert’s lips were soft and warm against his own as Javert’s thumb gently caressed him.

Valjean raised his own hand—his right hand, the hand that would forever bear the brand of the silver coin at its center—and covered Javert’s hand with his as he allowed himself to be kissed beneath the whispering trees, with their horses standing still beneath them and a path of dappled green-gold light opening before them.

After two years, it's finally done. Thanks to everyone who stuck around until these two finally managed to find their way to happiness, and to E without whose encouragement I doubt I'd have had the stamina for it. <3

Also, make sure to check out MagicFishHook's new art of the first time Javert uses the spiked bit!