Title: The Best Sport in Kalos
Work ID: 31769443
Author: Kaleran
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: this is very stupid, Magikarp Jump AU, M-sur-M AU, Alternate Universe - Pokemon Fusion, I have backstory for both Valjean's meowth and Javert's lampent, Third Party POV, the people of Karp Town ship it, Fluff, for those that don't know Kalos is pokemon france, pokemon knowledge not required to read, Barricade Day 2021, No one dies this time!
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

The mayor of Karp Town was a very particular sort of man. For one, he loved magikarp, which is a thing in and of itself. Magikarp are useless, only able to flop about on both land and in water, yet this man adored them. He adored every living creature, person or pokémon, useless or not, good or bad, regardless of it's history. When he first came to town, the people of Karp Town were perplexed at this odd man. Who would devote themselves to raise magikarp if not to evolve them into gyarados? The man was nice enough, despite his odd quirks, and so they shrugged and continued on with their lives. After many years, this man was elected mayor for his generosity and devotion to the people of the town. He was fair and quick to make improvements for the benefit of all.

There are surprisingly few wild pokémon around Karp Town other than magikarp and their natural predators of pidgeotto. In fact, most people don't have a single companion pokémon at all. In this the mayor is different, as he came to town with a meowth who had stayed by his side for as long as anyone knew. There was the occasional pikachu or skitty, but nothing as exciting as what could be found in other towns. The children of the town quickly grew bored of their games and wanted something new, like their own pokémon like most children of the region had. Mayor Karp quickly thought of a solution; the magikarp. Magikarp are useless in battle, but if trained correctly, could leap high into the air even from solid ground. He designed a competition where children would face off with their respective magikarps to see who's could jump the highest. It quickly became a success, multiple magikarp jumping leagues forming to celebrate the new sport. Fishing rods soon became a well sought after item and every pond in the town was full of magikarp. There was a certain charm to them, they found, and soon nearly everyone owned at least one magikarp to the great confusion of the surrounding towns.

A man with a lampent came into town to investigate what was going on in Karp Town as it magikarp jumping computations had drawn so much attention that the police wanted to regulate it. He was a tall man with an ever present scowl as if he had never known joy in his life with thick, bushy sideburns and thick eyebrows. The lampent was similar, all hard angles and took the form of a rectangular old-style Kalosian lamp rather than the classic round shape and it's metal body was scratched and dented, evidence of many battles. The man's name was Inspector Javert.

"Valjean," Inspector Javert said upon meeting the mayor.

"Javert," Mayor Karp said upon meeting the Inspector.

It was clear they had met before. Mayor Karp's usually easy smile was strained and Inspector Javert was fighting a snarl, his hands in tight fists at his sides. The mayor's meowth cowered before the lampent's glare.

The townspeople watched the two of them circle each other for weeks. The Inspector watched the magikarp competitions, observed what techniques were used to train them and implemented measures to protect the pokémon from unnecessary strain. No one fought him when he put forward a measure to retire a magikarp after it had reached a certain level. The trainers could always catch more magikarp; the oceans and ponds and rivers were full of them, all sporting different patterns and colors on their scales. No one wanted to bring harm to their beloved fish pokémon.

What confused the townspeople the most was how the Inspector seemed to treat Mayor Karp with barely restrained fury. Why would someone as nice and as good as Mayor Karp be under such suspicion? They loved their mayor as much as they loved their magikarp and could not understand how anyone could possibly dislike him as much as this new Inspector did. They would defend the mayor in passive ways; coming to him with some problem only the mayor could fix when it looked like Javert wanted nothing more than to tear him to shreds, distracting Javert for a day when it it looked like Mayor Karp was driven to anxious panic under his stare. No one dares directly approach the scowling Inspector.

There is an argument in the streets one night, their words quiet but flung at each other like sharp knives before retreating to the mayor's home. Few overheard what they had said to each other. Rumors abounded that Mayor Karp had once been a member of Team Rocket, that the meowth who adored him so fiercely was actually stolen, that he had been arrested and thrown in prison which is why he still carries a slight limp. They heard that Javert was the one to arrest Mayor Karp the first time and he was the one that went after him with his lampent when he escaped prison. The town buzzed with these supposed truths, although no one was quite courageous enough to ask either one of them to confirm what they had heard.

After that incident, the mayor did not seem to be so afraid of the Inspector and the Inspector watched the mayor with thinly veiled curiosity instead of the pure rage that had previously been a common sight on his face. Some even said he looked pensive, even confused. Sometimes they even walked the street together, debating some new regulation for magikarp jump competitions or even the new sport itself. They were opposites of each other. Mayor Karp's hair is wavy and prematurely white while the Inspector's is long, straight and jet black with only a few hints of silver-grey at his temples. The mayor is shorter and broader in stature while the Inspector is tall and lean. There is no doubt that both are powerful men, but in vastly different ways.

"Why magikarp?" Javert would ask, usually about once a week. "They are utterly useless. What is the point of this?"

"Everyone deserves to feel useful and wanted, Javert," Mayor Karp would always respond. "They're happy to be appreciated and loved. Even magikarp."

"Why do you like them so much?" Javert would grumble, crossing his arms. Floating beside him, his lampet would mirror him. Like human like pokémon. There is never any doubt that they are partners.

"I once knew what it felt like to be treated as useless, disposable even. I could never inflict that upon someone else." Sometimes he'll look fondly down at his meowth at this and smile sadly.

"Why Mayor Karp? Why keep that name?" His tone is exasperated, almost fond. It's strange to hear him fond since he is always so severe.

"Why not?" Mayor Karp answers with a shrug and a smile.

Javert will huff, and they will move onto other things.

The townspeople speculate about them. What could have transpired to cause the tension between them to disappear? Whatever it was, they are grateful and turn their attention back to doting on their magikarp. There are eight leagues to conquer and many magikarp to train. The magikarp training community thrives. It is Mayor Karp who starts giving golden nuggets and coins to trainers he sees working especially hard and taking good care of their pokémon. The trend catches on quickly, and soon money is changing hands quickly and easily from those who can spare some and those who need it.

Mayor Karp knows every trainer and every one of their magikarp by name. He manages to be the only one in town to know how to give a fish a massage and often returns them to their trainers when they get lost. He comforts trainers who's magikarp are stolen by pidgeotto and scolds the ones who work their magikarp too hard or puts them in danger. The Inspector crosses his arms and rolls his eyes at this, accusing the mayor of mollycoddling them, but never steps in himself unless there is a clear disregard for the regulations he set in place. When that happens, he strikes down with a vengeance like a wrathful dragon-type. No one dares cross him twice.

It is some months later when the townspeople realize that any tension between the mayor and the Inspector has dissolved completely. In fact, it is long past the time when they no longer need any more regulations for their magikarp jumping leagues. There is no reason for him to stay, unless he wishes to. Mayor Karp smiles in his presence and trusts him to look after his retired magikarp when he is called away. He doesn't participate in tournaments anymore, instead taking on the role of a mentor and cheerleader for everyone. The two of them are close and some wonder how close they have become.

Javert is the only one in town without a magikarp, despite how the mayor thrusts them onto him. They always end up with someone else or released back into the wild.

"I don't want a magikarp, Valjean," he is heard grumbling one day. "One Pokémon is enough for me. What would I do if it evolved into a gyarados? Fight it with Lampent, a fire-type? I think not."

Mayor Karp pauses, looking between the lampent that Javert is never seen without and the man himself. "How long have you had her?"

"Since I was a boy," Javert answers. His lampent gives a ghostly warble that is not entirely comforting, wrapping her wire arms around his shoulder in a show of possessiveness.

"Don't they, well, live off of human energy?" the mayor asks hesitantly. It is a minor concern of the townspeople as well and they often give Javert and his partner pokémon a wide breadth.

"She uses myself and small amounts of the people around her. Never enough to be noticed. There is no need for concern; the population here is enough to keep her healthy without it affecting anyone."

The mayor frowns. "I am concerned about you. Are you not fatigued by the energy drain?"

"I am well used to it," Javert waves off, but his face had reddened slightly at the concern. "She worse as a litwick. Now she has learned control."

"She could use me," the mayor offers.

"She could not!" the Inspector objects strongly, looked horrified at the thought. "You are depressed enough as it is, no matter how much you hide it. She takes none from you; I have for forbidden it."

The lampent makes an eerie sound that echoes her trainer's opinion, her purple flame sputtering for a moment like a physical display of of concern for the mayor's health.

"Take care of your magikarp, Valjean," the Inspector suggests, although it is spoken as a dismissal. "Arceus knows why you enjoy it so much, but clearly it does you good."

The mayor's meowth chirps his own agreement, pressing himself against Javert's pant leg and leaving a few white hairs behind that are easily visible on the dark fabric. The Inspector scowls at it, the hairs ruining his pristine appearance, but does not scold it.

After the story of that interaction is spread around, the townspeople are more accepting of the Inspector. He clearly has turned around and now cares for their mayor, and the townspeople would not accept any less than that. Without Mayor Karp, they would not be as prosperous nor as happy. They greet the Inspector in the street, no longer wary of his lampent, often leaving him baffled and confused.

Occasionally the Inspector will accompany the mayor to competitions, always citing that he is there to enforce regulations if they are not being followed. He does not cheer or even look pleased to be there, his constant scowl on his face and his arms crossed over his chest. Beside him, the mayor is the complete opposite, beaming at everyone competing and wishing all the magikarp good luck. The fish seem to take his words to heart, making small leaps into the air in happiness. The mayor's meowth cheers as well and the Inspector's lampent floats beside him, simply watching. It is difficult to judge her emotions, as she is mostly glass and metal, but some think that she is trying to understand why such a sport has gathered so much attention.

The mayor is always the one to go to when one has lost their magikarp. It happens sometimes. They leave their ponds to play with the other Pokémon and get lost, or go out in search of more berries to eat and can't find their way back. The mayor gives easy comfort and always seems to know just the places to look. He knows the forest intimately, walks the plains often, and visits the beach frequently. It is not often he is actually in his office, which can make locating him an adventure in itself.

Of course, not everything flows smoothly. The surrounding forest and plentiful wild magikarp population is a haven for pidgeotto. They don't differentiate between a trainer's magikarp and a wild one and often swoop down and dig their claws into some poor trainer's magikarp right in front of them and carry it off. Occasionally the magikarp can be recovered and are forcibly retired to recover from their wounds before being released back into the wild, but more often then not they become a meal for a lucky pidgeotto. Sometimes when the mayor cannot be found, trainers will go to the Inspector. He doesn't, or can't, give comfort like the mayor does, but he'll make an attempt to find the stolen magikarp. Pidgeotto are no match for the fire-type attacks his lampent uses. He attacks without mercy, but the magikarp are never burned even the slightest bit.

The mayor praises him for recovering the stolen magikarp. The Inspector huffs, muttering something about how he's always chasing after thieves, and the mayor smiles fondly at him.

There's a memorable incident where a pidgeotto tries to take a magikarp in the town square, quickly swooping down and grabbing the fish before anyone knew what was happening. The mayor moved, yanking the pidgeotto down by the foot and wrestling it to the ground, pinning its powerful wings with his body weight.

"Javert," he says, barely winded at all, "would you be so kind as to free this magikarp? I'm afraid I don't have a hand to spare."

Javert sputters, a look of fury coming over his face that had been long absent.

"You can't just do that!" he exclaims. "There's a reason people have partner pokémon! You can't just take on a pokémon with your bare hands, Valjean!"

The mayor flinches at his words, but his grip on the pidgeotto remains firm. "Javert--"

"You idiot! Did you even think before you went after that thing?" Javert continues, gesturing with his arms in sharp movements. "You have your meowth right here; why didn't you use him?"

"Meowth only knows pay day and cute charm," the mayor explains in a mutter. "It's not like I haven't done this before."

"You have done this--" The Inspector pauses, rubbing his face with one hand. "I cannot believe you. Of course you have. Why wouldn't you."

"Can you at least help the magikarp?" the mayor pleads. "You can lecture me about legalities later."

The Inspector huffs a breath through his nostrils, pulling his bangs roughly away from his face in frustration. "Fine. Move."

The magikarp is extracted quickly, although there are deep claw marks on its scales. The mayor releases the pidgeotto, which takes a moment to fluff its feathers and glare hatefully at him for stealing its dinner before taking off again. He pulls a potion out of his satchel and treats the magikarp, muttering soothing words to it.

"It is not about legalities, although why am I not surprised to see you breaking the law again," the Inspector says to the mayor in a low voice that's barely heard. "You could have been hurt, and it would have injured you far more severely than this magikarp. There is no hospital for miles. Jean, you could have--" he cuts himself off with a sharp jerk of his head.

The mayor's hands pause on the magikarp' scales.

"I would have been fine," the mayor assures him after a moment. He resumes his work, carefully spraying the potion on the magikarp's wounds. "You shouldn't worry about me."

"Someone has to worry about you. You have absolutely no regard for your own wellbeing," the Inspector grumbles.

"And you will?" The mayor's voice is hesitant, his eyes fixed on the magikarp even though the potion can do no more to help it.

"I'm always worrying about you," the Inspector responds irritably. "Give me the damn fish. I will walk it back to your pond."

The mayor does not move for several moments, then flushes and allows the Inspector to pick up the magikarp. It wiggles a bit in his arms, but after a quiet "shush" it settles and allows itself to be carried.

"Stay here with the kid," Javert tells him, standing. "I know the way."

The mayor watches him leave with a strangely blank look on his face, then scrambles to his feet.

"Javert," he calls after him.

Javert's lampent circles around her trainer, pulling on his sleeve to turn him around. He shoots a glare at her for manhandling him. She stares defiantly back and warbles softly. It's almost as if she's scolding him.

The mayor takes quick steps towards him. He lays a hand on the Inspector's arm and presses his lips to his cheek. It's over in the blink of an eye, but the mayor is smiling widely at him.

"Thank you, Javert," he says. It is said so quietly that it was probably meant only for Javert's ears, but it was overheard anyway.

"Valjean," the Inspector protests, scowling as usual but his face flushes immediately. "Did you really just--? Is this honestly the time?" He hugs the magikarp close to his chest like a shield.

"I don't see why not," Mayor Karp says with a smile.

The Inspector searches his face for several moments. An expression that has never before been seen on his face slowly appears: a smile. It's small and quiet, like he is unfamiliar with how to arrange his mouth to curve upwards. His eyes are not as hard as they usually are.

"You are a fool," he says, but his tone conveys something soft and fond.

There is no doubt in any of the townspeople of what exists between their mayor and the Inspector now. It had been building for months. No one can honestly say they didn't see this coming, but they all want their mayor to be happy. If the irritable Inspector does that for him, than they can accept that.

"Oh," the mayor adds as the Inspector turns to leave again. "Can you feed the gyarados for me?"

The Inspector stops again, closes his eyes and takes a breath before responding. "The what now." It is not a question.

"The gyarados. There's two of them," the mayor adds calmly. "Don't stir up the water too much and you'll be fine."

"Why do you even-- no, don't answer that. I do not even want to know," the Inspector says irritably. He glances upward in exasperation. "The things I do for you."

The mayor beams at him, then turns to the injured magikarp's trainer.

"Don't worry. I'll take good care of your magikarp, but I think he should live with me for a while. Why don't you take my fishing rod and catch yourself another?"