Title: The Icarus Experiment
Work ID: 6344071
Author: stvrkey
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Enjolras/Grantaire, Les Amis de l'ABC Friendship, Combeferre & Courfeyrac, Bahorel & Feuilly, Cosette Fauchelevent & Éponine Thénardier, eventual Cosette/Marius, Javert/Jean Valjean, Joly & Bossuet Laigle & Musichetta
Additional Tags: Growing Up Together, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Alternate Universe - High School, Codependency, Childhood, Mental Health Issues, Dysfunctional Family, Alternate Universe - Maximum Ride Fusion, Crossover, Disabled Character, Alternate Universe - Teenagers, Alternate Universe - Childhood Friends, Found Family, Alternate Universe - Wings, Superpowers, Family Dynamics, Fluff and Angst, Angst with a Happy Ending, Depression, Violence, Childhood Trauma
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 6/6

- The premise of this fic is completely ridiculous. It kinda goes without saying but you don’t need to have read Les Mis or Maximum Ride to read and enjoy it. In fact I would recommend that you don’t read the Maximum Ride books because they are very deeply bad- This fic deals heavily with some pretty triggering themes, which on reflection I don’t think I’ve warned particularly well for in the past—I would like to rectify this! If you in any way experience triggers or are sensitive to topics related to child violence or mental illness please read the footnote. I've listed general, unavoidable triggers that you might wanna take a look at before you start, and also flagged specific graphic scenes with superscript notes throughout the fic in case people wanna skip.- It might be a bit hard to believe given this extremely intense note but this fic isn’t just angst and it does have it’s fair share of fun and snark. The main, ultimate focus of the story is this lil found family and how much they love each other, and how that gets them through all the bad shit. (Also everything gets better, I promise)- Chapter playlist for anyone that wants it!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


“I notice you’ve been reading Homer recently, Grantaire.”

“Sure. The Iliad, The Odyssey, they’re okay.”

“They’re unusual choices, don’t you think?”

“Not really.”

“Enjolras focuses his reading time on more current works, on non-fiction, doesn’t he?”

“I don’t know. I guess.”

“What is it you like specifically about the Greek myths?”

“The happy endings,” Grantaire says with an awful smile.

&

Grantaire’s front baby tooth is loose. He wiggles it with his tongue, in time with his dangling, swinging feet.

“I’d like you to fill this questionnaire out, please. If you have any questions, don’t hesitate to ask.”

Grantaire scribbles black marks down the left-hand column. He gives the sad faces hats and monocles and wings. He hands it back for the man to inspect and file.

“Can I go now?”

The therapist smiles dispassionately and says, “Of course.”

Grantaire jumps off the chair and runs out the room.

&

"'Taire," Enjolras half-whispers in his ear. "'Taire, wake up."

Grantaire makes an indistinct noise that sounds something like, "Enj," and cracks his eyes. Enjolras's hair is stuck on end in a way that rivals Grantaire's own post-sleep fluff, and his eyes are rimmed red. Grantaire doesn't bother asking any questions, just closes his eyes and catches Enjolras's hand to pull him under the covers. Once there, he smooshes Enjolras into the bed and lies half on top of him, falling asleep with a face full of blonde curls only moments later.

Enjolras doesn't sleep well, is the thing. He tosses and turns and fidgets. He has nightmares that he doesn't talk about and wakes up out of breath, like he's been running, or else crying. Somehow having Grantaire nearly flatten him is the only thing that lets him get a full night’s sleep. Grantaire doesn't really know why someone who needs freedom like most people need to breathe air would be comforted by dead weight, but he's not going to ask either.

&

“It looks like an apple on its side, see? The circle with the little curly bit. Ah.”

“I can’t do it right.”

“Sure you can, you just got to do it lots. Your hand learns slower than you.”

“How’d you do the circle so well?” Enjolras is pouting, jaw stuck out, eyebrows furrowed.

“It’s just like a tiny sun. Draw it faster, don’t worry about wiggling and you won’t.”

Enjolras scowls and leans further over the table, pencil clutched awkwardly between four finger tips and writes a a a a a.

&

He wakes up before Enjolras in the morning, as usual, and carefully disentangles himself from the other's octopus limbs. Then he retrieves his sketchpad from under the pillow that Enjolras has appropriated.

He sits back against the dorm wall, crosses his legs and considers how the dawn light from the windows falls across the shapes of Enjolras. His wings are soft curves tucked loosely against his back, the same colour as the sun when it hits the lake in the evening. It's the kind of gold that looks liquid in its hundred hues of caramel and honey and ochre, and it throws off a trembling, dancing brightness that Grantaire never tires of. Enjolras’s hair has the same uncanny gold-leaf beauty. His skin is warm bronze and his eyes, when they're open, are like amber stuck in glass. Grantaire loves him. He loves him in that same overwhelming, all-encompassing way that he loves flying: the smell of the air and the whistling, biting wind and the wet of the clouds, the way the trees and hills look like fluffy rumpled blankets and the hard, shining blue of the lake. It’s the same with Enjolras, every single one of his senses is in love. Maybe sometimes he finds himself staring too long at Enjolras, with too much fascination. He doesn't worry that Enjolras will notice - Enjolras hardly notices anything - but he's wary of how far the scientists can see into his heart. He’s only little, he’s all too aware of how easy it would be to destroy him.

&1


“Why have you got us both in here?” Enjolras demands, “We’ve both already talked to you this week. What more do you want?”

“Careful, Enjolras, I’ll start to think you don’t enjoy our little chats.”

“I don’t,” he replies bluntly. Grantaire winces and makes a half-suppressive gesture. Enjolras quietens instantly and the man’s eyes follow the exchange, unblinking.

He smiles, snakelike. “In answer to your question, Enjolras, I thought it would be valuable to do a joint interview. That way, if one of you is feeling uncommunicative, I can focus my attentions on the other.”

There are cuffs on their arms and round their chests and little tabs on their finger tips. They know a polygraph when they see it, but the metal bars under their palms are new.

“The only unacceptable answer is a lie, I just want to know the truth, okay?”

“Not okay, I don’t consent.” Enjolras found the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in a book about the United Nations when he was seven. Since then, he’s precluded every single interview and test and experiment with those words. He’s spat them in the face of every doctor and therapist and scientist in the institute. Today though, he’s being especially vitriolic. “Why should we tell you the truth? You’re worthless, sitting torturing kids to see what happens. Is your mother proud? Go ahead and hurt me, I don’t care.” Grantaire stiffens and shoots Enjolras a look that he promptly ignores.

“Oh no,” said the man, with a polite frown, “I’m afraid we know you a lot better than that, Enjolras.”

Grantaire’s body understands the pain before he does. He doubles over with a choked-off groan and the pain soaks into every part of his body. It’s shocking, unbearable, and he’s nearly unaware of Enjolras’s desperate, “No, no, don’t. Stop it, please stop it.”

The pain lifts and Grantaire slides down his chair, numbed with the active pleasure of relief. Enjolras is stretched as close to him as possible within the confines of his bindings. His face is full of remorse.

“Now,” says the man, with a cold smile, “I just want to know the truth, that’s all. Nothing harmful. I’m going to say a series of words to you, and I want you to reply with the first word that comes to mind.”

“Word association test. Really?” mutters Enjolras, then glances nervously at the button under the man’s thoughtful fingers.

“Really, Enjolras,” says the man, “We’ll start now. Grantaire, I think you’ll go first:

“Reward.”

Grantaire knows that he can’t answer honestly. He doesn’t quite understand his reasoning but he’s sure that sincerity is the worst thing he can give these people. Thankfully his own mind isn’t as much a mystery to him as it is to others.

“Midas.”

The man blinks but continues, “Punishment?”

“Eagle.”

“Leader?” - “Lightning.”

“Anger?” - “Stone.”

“Obedient?” - “Pandora.”

“Puzzle?” - “Labyrinth.”

“Dream?” - “Morpheus.”

“Limitation?” - “Pomegranate.”

“Flying?” - “Hermes.”

“Falling?” - “Icarus.”

“Enjolras,”

Grantaire raises his eyebrows and looks from the man to Enjolras and back again. The man’s fingers hover over the switch and Grantaire blurts out, “UhhApollo.”

The man barely contains his expression of irritation, but the polygraph hasn’t beeped once. “What a metaphorical mind you have, Grantaire.”

Grantaire shrugs, but doesn’t say anything. The man turns his eyes on Enjolras, whose expression is, as always, challenging. His answers are quickfire, aggressive in contrast to Grantaire’s hoarse drawl.

“Reward?” - “Biased.”

“Punishment?” - “Cruel.”

“Leader?” - “Dictator.”

“Anger?” - “Righteous.”

“Obedient?” - “Slave.”

“Puzzle?” - “Distraction.”

“Encourage?” - “Manipulate.”

“Dream?” - “Sleep.”

“Limitation?” - “Cage.”

“Flying?” - “Mine.”

“Grantaire,”

Grantaire starts, but the man’s still looking at Enjolras. Enjolras bares his teeth and leans forward, the way he does when he knows he’s going to win the argument. “Mine,” he says, with finality, and the man actually looks disquieted, for a moment.

&

The worst of them, the very very worst, is Phillips. He has a way of looking that’s less detached that the others, less clinical. His smile makes Grantaire’s stomach twist and leaves him feeling shuddery and miserable. Enjolras hates him. He comes out of his individual sessions spitting fury and hate in a way that makes Grantaire worry. Today, Enjolras marches the two of them out to the flying field, utterly wordless, and somehow Grantaire worries even more.

They take to the air, and Grantaire suggests the dancing game, because that always makes Enjolras smile. He starts humming a tune, something snatched and scrambled from one of the Invigilators’ radios or break-room tv shows, he’s not sure what. After a moment Enjolras smiles and falls backwards, his back to the ground and his face to the sun, pulling Grantaire with him. Grantaire follows, wings dark like a cloud above their heads, and then he tips them further, pushing down so they're both swooping downwards headfirst, and then Enjolras folds one wing in, brushing Grantaire’s face, and they keel off at another angle altogether. They arc and twist and spin through the air, hands clasped, whooping and laughing when one of them gets the wing-tilt off or the speed wrong, causing them to crash together or spin apart.

By the time they’re exhausted, Grantaire can’t remember why they started. They lounge back on the updrafts, savouring the quiet security of the sky. Then Enjolras says, “The laundry shoots aren’t always locked.”

Grantaire has never had the pleasure of not understanding Enjolras’s mind. “You don’t think they’ve thought of that?” His voice is hoarser that usual; the air is dry up here.

“If they’d thought of it, they’d be locked.” Enjolras’s face is lit up with the terrible, joyous ferocity that Grantaire loves more than anything in the world. He’s not convinced, but he’s never going to be the one to make that smile go away

&

When they’re next playing with their basketball in the corridor leading up to their dorm, the ball knocks one of the security cameras slightly askew.

They keep playing without seeming to notice, Grantaire cackling as the ball slips from Enjolrass’s fingers and finds its way into his arms. They skitter off in the direction of the play room.

Just before curfew Grantaire sticks a bit of gum (scrounged from a wastepaper basket) into the lintel of the door, where the lock clicks into the wall.

The next day, they build a blanket fort close to the camera blindspot and play in it all day before falling asleep, exhausted, under the sheets.

At 3.07am they leave the dorm by way of the unlocked door, hug the wall as they make their way down the corridor, and stop by one of the laundry shoots. Enjolras opens it and they both peer down into the black space.

“You go first, if an alarm goes off, just make sure you get out,” Enjolras says, because when it gets right down to it, his hero complex reduces his IQ by about a quartile. Grantaire’s already shaking his head.

“I won’t leave without you.” Grantaire can count the times he’s said no to Enjolras on one hand, but when he does, Enjolras always listens. He’s big on consent.

Enjolras nods, and it takes a few minutes but eventually the two of them are lodged together at the opening of the shoot, heads tucked in, wings folded back, arms clasped tight around each other. “One,” Enjolras whispers into Grantaire’s hair, “Two. Three.”

Then they’re flying through the dark cramped space of the shoot, banging off the walls. They spend so much time flying in their day-to-day lives that neither of them is as scared as they should be, but really, there’s no way their wings will be of any help in this tight a space. Grantaire realises this belatedly, with a lurching in his stomach, and then they’re flying out into the light, onto a pile of laundry bags.

It’s a struggle to sit up, to disentangle themselves and work out which way is up. When they do, Grantaire is the first one to spot Phillips, sitting on a fold-out chair with a tablet on his lap, smiling at them. His whole body washes cold.

&

Enjolras hits the ground with a thump and Grantaire blinks down at him.

“How are you so good at this?” Enjolras groans into the grass.

“High levels of kinesthetic intelligence,” says Grantaire, drifting to the ground.


“What?” 


“Nothing, sunshine.”

Enjolras clambers to his feet and eyes the nearby oak tree with intense dislike. Then, up he climbs again, foot braced on the knot, five fingers white on a broken branch stump.

Enjolras is nothing if not detemined.

“You don’t need to get your primaries out fast, it’s more important that they’re out together. Stop trying to pick a fight with the air.”

The next time Enjolras manages to get his wings synchronised enough to slow his descent. He lands a little further away in a rose bush with a high pitched yelp.

Grantaire winces and scrambles over to help extract him.

&2

“Whose idea was this?” Phillips asks, mildly.

“What?” says Enjolras at the same moment Grantaire says,

“Mine.”

Enjolras makes and effort to stand up and face Phillips, “No, no it wasn’t, it was mine, I thought of it.”

Phillips looks at Grantaire, who meets his eye stone-faced and says, “He’s lying,”

Phillips nods thoughtfully and says, “Alright, follow me please.”

They pin him down, flat out on his belly on a surgical table and he knows he's breathing too fast but he can't seem to get enough air. They ask him again, and again, and again. "Whose idea was it, Grantaire?"

Except for the ragged, tearing, inhale-exhale pattern of his breathing, “Mine" is the only sound he makes. Enjolras is screaming words Grantaire doesn't want to or can't understand, crying in a heaving, rolling noise that makes Grantaire feel physically ill because he can count on one hand the number of times that Enjolras has been incapable of making himself understood.

Then the unbearable grinding of a buzz-saw starts up and his wings are pinned. They ask him, one last time, whose fault it is and for some reason the definitiveness of the moment, the stark ultimatum, lets him breathe again. He laughs into the surgical bed, tears leaking from his eyes, and remembers the words that Enjolras mouths to himself at night, when he thinks Grantaire's asleep.

"All humans are born free and equal in dignity and rights," he says as they lower the buzz saw to his wings.

"Everyone has the right to life, liberty and security. No one shall be held in slavery or servitude. No one shall be subjected to torture..." he's forgetting them now, words slipping out of his memory like ink down the sink. "No one shall be subject to arbitrary arrest. Everyone has the right to a nationality..."

"Whose idea was it, Grantaire?"

"Mine."

The pain is indescribable.

&

It's not until later they find out that their clothes have button-microphones in them, and that any conversations they've had under the cover of clouds have been recorded and planned for accordingly. But if their plan had been to punish Enjolras into obedience - because it was never about Grantaire, he will eternally be collateral damage - they couldn't have failed any more spectacularly. Sure, Enjolras didn't go around openly plotting escape now, but his movements had adopted a kind of stilted, barely-contained fury. He was no longer interested in escaping; he wanted war.

&

The stars are sharp and close in the blue-black sky. They fill Grantaire with silent wonder.

Enjolras is staring at his knees, folded down and in, arms wrapped around, bottom lip quivering.

“What if we’re here forever?” he whispers.

They’re not touching but Grantaire feels the weight of Enjolras’s trust all along his left hand side, down his cheek and jaw and neck, pressed to his chest, his thigh, his knee.

“Forever is a stupid word, Enjolras, it isn’t real.”

“What?”

“Forever doesn’t exist. Nothing is forever. People get born and die, stars go out, even the darkest night ends, Enjolras.”

“So we won’t be here forever?”

“I swear to God, Enjolras. I swear to God and Zeus and I swear on my life and yours. We won’t be here forever.”

“So you think we’ll be free? That we’ll be happy?”

“I’m promising you that forever doesn’t exist, Enjolras, I can’t give you any more than that.”

Enjolras is quiet for two beats, three. “I want to be your friend forever.”

“I promise to be your friend forever, sunshine.”

Enjolras tips sidey-ways and then he’s all along Grantaire’s side, warm and soft and sad, and Grantaire hugs him tight.

&3


Phillips takes a special interest in Grantaire, afterwards. He sits in a single chair in one of the many plain white rooms, and focuses his gaze on Grantaire.

"Do you know that you're worthless, Grantaire?"

Grantaire nods wearily into the wall. There’s a mirror bolted to the wall opposite him. He staunchly avoids making eye contact with his own reflection.

"Tell me that you're worthless."

"I'm worthless."

"Tell me why you're worthless."

Grantaire shakes his head like he's been called to answer in maths class. Pick a number from one to infinity.

"Start at the top, work your way down. Surely you have lots to work with." Phillips gestures to the mirror with a broad, generous sweep of his arm.

The man openly enjoys these sessions. There's no bustling background of scientists or tests being run. It's just him, Grantaire, and the white room. Between the two of them, they do damage enough.

"Uh, my, uh," Grantaire closes his eyes, ". "My hair."

"Your hair?" Phillips prompts.

"It's, it's messy, it's tangled and, and."

"It's disgusting, Grantaire."

"Yeah."

“Can you even brush it?”

Grantaire shakes his head tiredly.

“What’s next?”

Grantaire’s wings are black, with a purple-green sheen that looks like oil, and they are destroyed. His coverts are the only feathers left intact - his primary and secondary feathers are a mangled mess of roadkill-proportions. His skin is wall-white, with shadows pooling in his eyes and his cheeks. He’s too short for his ten years, too stocky.

And so it goes on.

&

Combeferre and Courfeyrac arrive at some point in the following winter when the snow has started to form a thin film of soft white. Enjolras is instantly enthralled because here, finally, are two people who believe in the world he lays out for them - broad sweeping strokes that Grantire finds all too easy to see the gaps in. The three of them sit together, cross-legged, and plan for the downfall of the institute, plan for the future, plan for freedom. Grantaire swallows the warm lump in his throat and tries in vain to shake off the feeling that he's missing some crucial part of an optical illusion. Look, there's the amorality and injustice, right there. That bit that you think is "just the way it is" is actually systematic cruelty and oppression when you look at it with your head tilted. Grantaire tries his best not to resent Enjolras's two new friends, he honestly does, but when he's sitting in the snow of the flying field, the cold seeping up through his whole body in theatrical little shivers, they are diving and flipping and flying, up there above him, and he feels so appallingly lonely that he wants to dissolve into the snow at his feet.

Grantaire's words now leave his mouth in a slow drawl, like he can't quite work out how to form sentences until they're already gone. His movements are slow and his facial expressions are eerily blank, flat in a way that makes Courfeyrac and Combeferre look unnerved, sometimes. He's not one half of a whole anymore - to his pained surprise Enjolras can cope quite well without his constant presence. Not belonging, it turns out, hurts more than anything Phillips can do.

It's not fair to say that they don't make an effort. Courfeyrac is wiry, with a mess of dark hair and olive skin and a thin, smiling mouth that never stops talking. He seems to assume that Grantaire comes ready-included in the whole friendship-with-Enjolras deal, because he's just as talkative when it's only the two of them. Combeferre, with his mousy brown hair, thick eyebrows and even thicker glasses, might not be brimming with social enthusiasm, but he demonstrates the polite, wordless kindness of naturally shy people that Grantaire can hardly find fault with. Still, he avoids their company, never lets himself get dragged into their coded breakfast-table conversations. He's jealous, he knows, and it lowers his own opinion of himself even further. And if sometimes he walks into rooms and they don’t see him, well, all the better for them.

&

They're sitting in the lunch room when a small, painfully thin boy is lead to their table and left to stand awkwardly beside them, staring at the floor.

"Hello!" says Courfeyrac, and the boy visibly jumps.

Hi he mouths, then clears his throat, licks his lips and says again, "Hi."

"You can sit down, you know," says Enjolras.

The boy nods jerkily and nudges the chair next to Grantaire with his foot, grips the back in a hesitant curl of fingers, pulls it out, slowly, and sits down.

"So," says Courfeyrac. "What's your name?"

The boy has long, long auburn hair and he tilts his head forwards so that it falls in a curtain in front of his freckled flick of a nose, "Jean Prouvaire," he says, without looking at any of them.

He's still staring at the table, eyes red rimmed, and something about the way his body is fixed in space sits oddly with Grantaire, an experienced practitioner at avoiding eye contact. Jean isn't shy, he's...

"You can't see," blurts Grantaire and a half-curl smile edges up Jean's face.

"No," he says.

"What?" demands Enjolras, and Grantaire sympathy-cringes as Jean shrinks back. Enjolras's voice is strident at the best of times. "Did they do that to you?"

Jean shrugs, "They were trying to get night vision right, post-embryo. Eyes are tricky, they say."

"See!" Enjolras turns to Courfeyrac and Combeferre in indignation, "This is exactly what I'm talking about! This kind of behaviour is expressly outlawed in the Geneva convention, for a start."

Grantaire snorts and rests his hand on Jehan's small, pale one. Clearly, this meeting needs an intervention if Jean's ever going to speak to them again. "Don't mind him - that's Enjolras. He lacks emotional intelligence, if you couldn't tell. But he's pretty so everyone lets him away with it." Enjolras is staring at Grantaire's hand with a baffled horror that would make more sense if Grantaire had grabbed a live scorpion. Grantaire doubts he heard a word, otherwise he would be profusely negating any importance of his looks re: his political ideology.

"Courfeyrac is across from you," Grantaire says.

Courfeyrac gets with the program and trills, "That's meeeeee."

"...He talks all the time. If you don't recognise his voice now, don't worry, you will soon." 

Jehan laughs quietly, turning his palm up to fit his fingers into Grantaire's. Courfeyrac laughs as well, if only because all he normally sees Grantaire display is stony silence and this departure into the land of communication delights him.

"And Combeferre's across from Enjolras."

"Hello," says Combeferre quietly. "Nice to meet you, Jean."

Jean smiles into his hair and murmurs to Grantaire, "Who are you?"

"I'm Grantaire. No one important, I promise." Grantaire says, smiling. 

Jean smiles back without looking at him and rocks his arm into Grantaire's, bringing his mouth level to Grantaire's ear. "I don't believe you," he whispers. And Grantaire laughs.

&

Jean’s hearing is uncannily good. He can place asleep or not asleep by the sound of the quiet, breathing dorm, he can differentiate the numbers being typed into a keypad by the distance between the beeps (Enjolras nearly explodes when he lets that slip, but most of the main doors are opened with a biometric/keycard/pin code combination, so unless he’s intent on getting into the kitchens Grantaire can’t see much use in the skill besides sheer awesomeness). Jehan sits with his ear pressed to the dorm window, listening to the wind when it’s howling at night and he prefers the sound of Jehan, to Jean, when Grantaire says it by accident.

One day he says conversationally, “Enjolras hates me.”

“He what?” sputters Grantaire, before instantly negating, “No he doesn’t.”

“He does,” says Jehan serenely. They’re sitting under a tree in the flying yard, while the others swoop and swirl above them. Jehan is threading flower stems together, forming a long string, although just how he’s doing it is entirely beyond Grantaire. Every time he tries he ends up tearing the tiny stems, and he can see them. His quiet suspicion that Jehan might actually be capable of sorcery keeps him from pressing.

“I can hear it,” continues Jehan, threading one more flower onto the chain. “In his voice, when he talks to me, or when I’m around.”

Grantaire sputters, completely at a loss, “Have you heard him speak to the people he hates? The theme of non-consensual experimentation tends to come up, just a bit.”

Jehan laughs in the quiet, pretty way he has.

“Maybe he doesn’t hate me,” he allows. “But he really doesn’t like me.”

“I don’t believe you,” said Grantaire. “If there’s anyone he doesn’t like, it’s me.”

Jehan looks him dead in the eye in a way that thoroughly implies exactly how much of an idiot he thinks Grantaire is.

Grantaire’s sure of it now. How does a blind kid look you in the eye? Sorcery.

“I annoy him recently, I can tell.” Grantaire dumps his chin in the peak of his folded knees and hugs his shins. “He wants me to be more dedicated to getting out.”

“You can’t feel what you don’t feel,” says Jehan sagely, dropping his completed flower ring on Grantaire’s head with eerie accuracy.

“If we ever get out of here you have a big future ahead of you in fortune-cookie writing,” says Grantaire and Jehan beams at him.

“Now that’s the kind of optimism Enjolras wants!”

“Why doesn’t he like you?” Grantaire asks, after a pause. He’s secretly, very secretly, not that upset. He likes having Jehan all to himself.

Jehan just smiles and starts another flower crown, humming quietly.

&

It starts with a weighted feeling in his limbs, an unwillingness to stand up from the breakfast table, a strange, sleepy draining of concentration that stops him from reading even his favourite books. And then some days Grantaire can’t make himself leave his bed. It’s a weird feeling, he reflects from his cocoon of starchy white bedsheets, and he can’t quite put his finger on it. It’s a kind of numb paralysis that clicks into place in his brain and jams up all the gears, stopping them dead. He doesn’t feel bad per say, at least not in any other way that he’s ever felt bad: upset or worthless or scared or bitter. It resembles the feeling he had the morning after they took his wings, if he had to compare it to anything: waking up, remembering, and feeling a cold heaviness settle in his stomach - the emotional antithisis of gulping tea on a hot day. But now when he wakes up there’s no remembering, the feeling’s just there, waiting for him in a fist-sized lump below his ribcage. The feeling horrifies Grantaire to the point that he doesn’t even want to look at it, even if he can’t always help the wobbly-tooth instinct to flick.

Enjolras, for the first time in their ten years living the same life, gets up before him and stands over the bed. At first he's bemused, then concern rapidly free-falls into anxiety, something Grantaire rarely sees Enjolras openly display. A nurse is brought in to look at him after several imperious, monologueing demands from Enjolras to the security cameras, and the child-lab-rat equivalent of a union strike taking place in their dorm. The nurse looks him over, takes his temperature, checks his pupils, takes some blood. She sighs, glances at her folder, then at the security camera, and then at the miserable huddle of Grantaire.

“There’s nothing physically wrong with him,” she says, in a strange kind of way that seems to induce a reaction in the Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Jehan.

Enjolras just scowls, “Of course there is, look at him.”

The nurse shakes her head and leaves and Enjolras rails for hours until Courfeyrac says quietly, “Enjolras, we’re valuable to them. If Grantaire was sick, they’d treat him.”

Grantaire ignores them and curls tighter.

So from then on Enjolras directs at least part of his furious anxiety at Grantaire. “Get up,” he orders and sometimes Grantaire will, shakily, as if expecting the floor to disappear from under his feet.

Sometimes Grantaire just looks at him with a kind of incredulous humour, eyes big and dark and agonised. At these moments, Grantaire feels Enjolras might as well order him to fly for all the obedience he’d get. He’s not Houdini, he can’t escape the impossible.

Eventually, after countless entreaties, demands and actual physical tugging, Enjolras screams at him, bursts into tears, and storms out. Grantaire, with an unfamiliar sensation of determination, gives the cold lump under his diaphragm a shove. "What?" he screams at it, and it feels like it echoes through his empty body. "What do you want?"

 It teeters, like a tooth on its last bloody string, and Grantaire realises with a tiny ah hah moment exactly what it is he wants. Quite simply, he wants to die.

&

The glass bulbs in the bedside lamp are easily broken into shards and if Grantaire stares at them for a little too long sometimes, his only excuse is that pain would be a nice break from nothing.

&

At this point Jehan proves himself not just unnaturally perceptive for a kid with no functioning optical nerves, but potentially mildly psychic. He climbs into Grantaire’s cocoon with him and hugs him tight and Grantaire feels something loosen from around his ribs. He dissolves into violent, silent sobbing, and Jehan just cuddles closer. They stay like that for most of the day, with Jehan occasionally venturing out for food. He doesn’t say anything, just plays with Grantaire’s curls and stares off into space.

Come the evening Enjolras is standing over them with grim determination on his face and Ovid’s Metamorphoses in his hands. “Get up,” he says, to Jehan this time, and Jehan clambers out of the bed with that mild, I’m not saying anything look he gets when he’s annoyed. Enjolras ignores him and lies down in the warm space left behind, moving Grantaire, floppy and doll-like onto his chest. Grantaire abandons the foetal position and octopuses himself to Enjolras, arms round his chest, legs tangled with his, head in the cradle of Enjolras’s neck.

Enjolras clears his throat, ignores the audience of Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Jehan with the dismissiveness of a true leader and says into Grantaire’s curls, “God reduces Chaos into order. He separates the four elements, and disposes the several bodies, of which the universe is formed, into their proper situations. At first, the sea, the earth, and the heaven, which covers all things, were the only face of nature throughout the whole universe, which men have named Chaos; a rude and undigested mass, and nothing more than an inert weight, and the discordant atoms of things not harmonizing, heaped together in the same spot. No Sun as yet gave light to the world; nor did the Moon, by increasing, recover her horns anew. The Earth did not as yet hang in the surrounding air, balanced by its own weight, nor had Amphitrite stretched out her arms along the lengthened margin of the coasts. Wherever, too, was the land, there also was the sea and the air; and thus was the earth without firmness, the sea unnavigable, the air void of light; in no one of them did its present form exist. And one was ever obstructing the other; because in the same body the cold was striving with the hot, the moist with the dry, the soft with the hard, things having weight with those devoid of weight.”

Grantaire falls asleep somewhere around Juno putting Argus’s eyes in the peacock’s tail and the next morning, he gets up with the first rays of light. He shuffles into the bathroom to wash his face, studiously avoiding his own reflection in the mirror. Instead, he watches the water swirl endlessly down the drain and brushes his teeth.

Enjolras bends over his shoulder and spits toothpaste foam into the sink and Grantaire wonders when he got up, and how slow, exactly, his brain is working that he can’t keep up with Enjolras, whose activity levels more closely resemble a tree sloth than a human in the morning.

“I think your teeth are clean enough,” Enjolras says imperiously, removing Grantaire’s toothbrush from his mouth and sticking it, along with his own, in the glass by the sink.

“Probably,” Grantaire mumbles.

Enjolras turns him, so they’re facing, and Grantaire curls forward against his chest because he doesn't want Enjolras looking at him right now.

Enjolras pulls away, takes Grantaire’s face in his hands and stares him down. Eventually Grantaire looks up, if only because he can’t bear the implicit disappointment.

“I can’t do this without you,” says Enjolras quietly. “Please don’t leave me here.”

Grantaire startles, nearly pulling away. “I would never leave you!” he says, mildly offended, because there’s not much he wouldn’t do in the world but Enjolras is right up there with oxygen, his five senses and clean water in terms of necessity.

Enjolras just looks at him with those big, anxious eyes, like he’s fresh from a nightmare and crawling into Grantaire’s bed, and Grantaire can’t do anything but shake his head and repeat, “I won’t leave you, Enjolras. I promise, I’ll never leave you.”

Enjolras accepts this without hesitation because there’s nothing and no one in the world that he trusts like Grantaire. “I won’t leave either you, you know,” Enjolras says firmly, “Never ever ever. I’d die first.”

A solitary chill run down Grantaire’s back, like a drip of water, and he crumbles forwards into Enjolras’s chest. Enjolras grabs Grantaire close and hugs him, like he can keep the outside world from existing if he just holds on tight enough.

&

Combeferre and Coufeyrac have always been easily startled by him, always half as likely to see him as not in the canteen, in the playroom or the dorm. Grantaire puts this down to them not really liking him all that much. He knows as well as anyone: horrible things that won’t go away are best ignored. At least he’s learned to conceal the worst of the poison in his head, at least he can leave his bed now, if only because he doesn’t care enough to stay in it. Pity is infinitely worse than being ignored.

Four months later, Cosette, Eponine and Gavroche arrive. The girls are a study in opposites, Eponine with her choppy, shiny-black hair, dark almond eyes and tiny, ferocious pout of a mouth and Cosette, with her flyaway golden ringlets and tall, willowy child-grace. Gavroche is a one-child wrecking ball, with soft baby cheeks and Eponine's hair and eyes and spirit.

And here’s the thing: they can’t see him. He doesn’t notice, not really, but when he speaks - some half-hearted drawl of welcome - they jump and stare.

Gavroche opens his mouth and out spills, “What’s wrong with you?”

Grantaire hunches, dark, wild eyes behind an even darker, wilder fringe, and looks down at himself.

“What are you talking about?” Enjolras asks, offended as if he’s the one who’s being stared at. He’s holding tightly onto Grantaire’s elbow.

“You’re all…” Gavroche waves his hand in Grantaire’s general direction. “You’re dark, you’re…” He stops and looks at the girls in frustration.

“That’s so weird,” says Eponine, moving her head back and forth like he’s an optical illusion. “What is wrong with you?”

“There’s nothing wrong with him!” Enjolras exclaims at the same time as Coufeyrac bounds into the conversation with,

“Oh, it’s fine, he always looks like that.”

Enjolras and Grantaire turn to look at him with equal bafflement.

“Like he’s on a bad radio reception,” says Combeferre quietly.

Coufeyrac nods enthusiastically as Eponine says,

“Yeah, exactly like that.”

“I’m what, I’m invisible?” Grantaire asks, because he’s not usually this oblivious and he didn’t realise that Combeferre and Coufeyrac had an actual metaphysical problem with him, rather than a conversational one.

“No,” Cosette muses, “it’s more like my eyes don’t want to focus on you, they just kind of-”

“Skip over you,” Eponine finishes. “I can see you when I concentrate.”

Grantaire is speechless. As usual, Enjolras fills the space, “You’re all being ridiculous. I can see him just fine.”

“Me too,” says Jehan quietly, then blushes to his roots when people give him incredulous looks. “I mean, I can’t see him. But I know when he’s in the room.”

“I always tap you,” says Grantaire, comprehension dawning. “I touch your arm or back. So I don’t spook you. First thing I do when I come in a room. Otherwise you do jump.”

Jehan smiles shyly and Enjolras scowls a little.

Combeferre looks fascinated, “I can’t believe you didn’t know. We thought you just didn’t want to talk about it.”

The look Grantaire gives him is more than a little wide-eyed. “No, I didn’t know I was invisible.”

“No invisible!” Coufeyrac objects. “Just-”

“Semi-transparent, right, I get it,” Grantaire mutters.

“If I had to describe it as anything, I’d say it was the exact opposite of whatever Enjolras is.” Combeferre said thoughtfully.

Grantaire and Enjolras look at each other again.

“I have no idea what you’re talking about.” Grantaire says blankly.

He’s met with five identical looks of incredulity.

“You have to be joking,” Eponine sneers. “He’s practically got sparkle, sparkle, look at me! Written across his forehead. It’s like ignoring a really bright light.”

Eponine is officially Grantaire’s favourite, after that. After Enjolras. And Jehan.

But they don’t get any closer to solving the mystery of Grantaire’s ghostliness.

&

Enjolras is the one who decides they need a collective name for themselves, but it's Courfeyrac who comes up with 'the flock'. The need for this distinction comes from the fact that they are not the only experiments at the Institute. There is another cohort, an experimental group of ten children who got the decidedly shorter end of the genetic-splicing stick. Instead of wings, they have teeth, and instead of careful observation and opportunity for self-education, their development was marked by obedience training and brutal, indiscriminate violence. The flock call them the razers, a name Grantaire had coined years ago—a dark, un-funny pun on their razor sharp teeth and their tendency to raze nice things to the ground.

The existence of the razers is a constant source of fury to Enjolras because he truly cannot understand why they obey the Invigilators, the people directly responsible for their awful, terrible, fucked up lives. Why they fall into line for the Institute as perfectly behaved guard dogs, but terrorise each other for entertainment and take genuine pleasure in being the constant hammer-fall threat that keeps the flock from getting too unruly. They’re supposed to be on the same side, Enjolras shouts. Grantaire’s answer: that after a certain degree of brutalisation, disobedience would quite reasonably just stop occurring to people, goes on deaf ears. That doesn’t mean he particularly likes the razers but he can kind of see where they’re coming from.

One overcast Thursday the flock are let into the yard adjacent to their usual one. In this enclosure, the caged roof is too low for flight, just higher than the height of a normal ceiling. It limits their movements drastically, Gavroche most of all—he’s is a frenetic tangle of energy even when he has the space to move—when he doesn’t, he resembles a human-sized pinpong ball. Eponine and Jehan entertain him with a racing game. Cosette, Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Enjolras sit in a circle, playing another endless game of ‘how to escape’. Grantaire naps in the sun. A few hours later the razers stroll in leisurely and the gate relocks behind them with an electric buzz. Three of them circle Enjolras—the biggest, brightest target in any given area—but slowly, and from a distance. Grantaire eyes them lazily; he’s faster, let them fucking try. 

Montparnasse trundles over to Grantaire and, on getting no reaction whatsoever, gives him a half-hearted kick. Grantaire turns slowly to his friend and says drily, “Sup ‘Parnasse.”

Montparnasse sniffs dismissively and crouches down at Grantaire’s side. The razers have weird anatomy, short powerful limbs that bend strangely. “You look like shit.”

“I am glowing,” says Grantaire, without taking his eyes off of Enjolras, who is talking to Cosette but looking tense, aware of his circling audience.

Grantaire can always be abrupt with Montparnasse, can tell him the honest, no-bullshit truth. He doesn’t have to bite his tongue or measure out his poison.

“Uhuh,” says Montparnasse, fishing a half-eaten Twizzler out of his pocket and handing it off to him.

Grantaire crams the whole thing in his mouth. They don’t let the flock have sweets.

Whatever the experiment was about (integration, the potential for semi-humanoid cannibalism on the part of the razers, Grantaire just killing everyone) the Invigilators are probably disappointed in the results. Apart from one small scuffle—Eponine kicking out at a razer who gets too close to Gavroche, Montparnasse snarling low to prevent retaliation—very little in the way of drama unfolds. Grantaire continues his nap on the ground, one eye always half open.

&

Enjolras and Grantaire are six years old. They are lead up a ramp into a small room with four gridded walls and a ceiling and left there. Squares of colour scatter out into rows along the walls, some dull, others bright, iridescent. They’ve both been in there before - individually and together – and they won’t get out until they solve the puzzle. Grantaire sits and scowls at the wall, chewing his lip. Enjolras jumps about, touches one square only for it to multiply into a cross, as across the room another two squares edge into existence. The aim is to get rid of the squares, but they keep dividing until the wall is a blur of colour. Enjolras grits his teeth and keeps going until there’s only four squares left, ones he’s wary to touch, lest they spawn more. Grantaire’s eyes have by this point narrowed to slits.

Enjolras has tears of anger in his eyes when he says, “You could help you know!”

Grantaire gets to his feet and tilts his head to one side, then the other. After a moment he shakes his head, “You can’t solve it, it’s a game.”

“What?” Enjolras sputters, before rolling right over himself, “Of course you can win it, it’s a game, that’s the point, games are for winning. I just have to work it out!” He spins on his heel, back to the wall, and knocks one of the squares hard. It bounces twice and splits into five more squares, one of which goes rolling off to be pink and square in the uppermost corner of the room.

Grantaire shakes his head again, follows Enjolras with his eyes, “No, Enj- don’t, listen.”

Enjolras kicks another square and the walls are starting to hurt Grantaire’s eyes they’re so bright.

“You’re not the one playing the game,” Grantaire says with a sigh, slumping back down to sit against the wall.

Enjolras ignores him and hunts down the pink square.

When they’re eventually allowed out, Enjolras has fallen asleep in Grantaire’s lap, his legs tucked up awkwardly to his chest. Grantaire looks at the scientist who’s there to escort them, who’s been recording, if not personally watching them for the last six hours, and hates.

&

Before Enjolras, before Courfeyrac and Combeferre and Jehan, Grantaire is alone. He’s snarling, and tiny, and wild-haired and so very alone. He’s lead inside the gates of the Institute, and the gates close behind him with a rattling bang, and he’s alone but for the children pressed against the wire fences on either side of the walkway.

At least, Grantaire assumes they’re children. Their faces have too much bone, too many teeth. Their eyes are yellow, slitted. Most importantly, they are trying to claw him to death through the wire. That’s fine. Grantaire isn’t exactly domesticated himself.

He runs his eyes over the crowd, finds the one he’s looking for out of some half-feral instinct: tall, controlled, dangerous. Grantaire springs forwards, crosses the walkway in four steps and presses himself against the mesh: teeth bared, eyes black, fingers claws.

The boy assesses him for one long moment before grinning - too many teeth - and turning away.

Grantaire doesn’t have any problem with the razers after that.

Montparnasse, the boy in question, is also the first thing he ever has resembling a friend. He’s cruel sometimes and annoying always, a ferocious combination of playfulness and amorality. Grantaire only seeks him out when he’s in desperate need of company, which, honestly, is more often than he’d like.

The two of them are there, in the yard, when Enjolras is brought in.

The rain cascades out of the cloudy evening skies, drenching everyone and Grantaire would really rather be anywhere else. He hates the cold, hates the way the rain soaks his feathers, making them drag. A boy is pushed into the walkway, the door is shut, the razers prowl to the edges of the yard, up against the wire fence. They growl, throats revving like some awful engine from hell. It’s the same play for dominance that Grantaire had been subjected to, way back when he’d first arrived, and he’s curious to see how this new kid reacts. It always bodes badly if they’re too jumpy or too submissive. The razers are not a pack; they destroy the weak for entertainment. The boy stutters to a stop, face blanched of colour in the floodlights. He’s small too, blond hair plastered to his head in thick, miserable curls. Then he turns and Grantaire sees the golden arcs of his wings, just like his but so much more beautiful. Like something from a dream. All the floodlights go out with a pop.

By the time Grantaire has recovered from his surprise, Enjolras is a blur of gold disappearing into the doors of the institute.

&

Grantaire doesn't like feelings, is the thing. Somewhere in his tiny, emotionally detached psyche, he understands on a fundamental level that other people hurt you and cannot be trusted. But now he's lingering in the doorway of the playroom (which Grantaire knows is the playroom because of the sign on the door, not as evidenced by any fun he's ever had there) listening to Enjolras cry like the world is ending, and he’s having feelings. He’s appalled and utterly confused by this development.

He doesn’t want to go in, but the idea of walking away makes him feel like someone is twisting something important inside him, and it’s such a horrible feeling that he’s three steps inside the door before he notices he’s moving.

“Hey,” he says, then, “hey,” again, because he can’t think of anything at all that’ll pacify those tears. He kneels to Enjolras-level instead, hands drifting uselessly.

Enjolras looks up, and Grantaire’s heart breaks more than a little, “Hey. Everything will be okay, you know.”

“Really?” Enjolras asks with a sniff.

“Uh…” No, Grantaire wants to say, nothing will ever be okay, what planet are you from, exactly. Instead he says, “Sure. Everything's going to be okay."

“I’m Enjolras.” His eyes are big and sweet and earnest and Grantaire’s getting that sinking feeling he gets when he knows he’s in trouble.

“I’m Grantaire.”

Enjolras nods solemnly and then launches himself into Grantaire’s lap. He has an arm locked around Grantaire’s neck and his face buried in the warm slope of his neck before Grantaire can properly react to his fight-or-flight options.

“You won’t leave me, will you?” Enjolras mumbles into Grantaire’s skin.

And Grantaire says no, because he’s an idiot, apparently.

&

Enjolras turns up subdued in the playroom with grit-burns on his face and a split lip and Grantaire feels something dark and cool and awful sweep up inside him.

Later he presses the boy responsible into the wire fence, stubby nails dug into his neck, and lets a little bit of the chaos in his head slip out.

The boy screams so loudly he goes hoarse before subsiding into hysterical sobbing. Grantaire flinches like he's been scalded and backs away.

He ignores how incredibly, mind-blowingly good it feels to take just the smallest edge off the pain that he had up till now assumed was just a normal deficit to having a soul.

&

Grantaire doesn't know what is done to the others in their individual sessions, but he doesn't think it's this.

They won't stop hurting him.

It drives him crazy, for the first while. He can feel his thoughts warping under the pressure: Why are they doing this? Does he deserve it, truly? Is Phillips right, is there something about Grantaire that people just want to hurt.

Then he works out that they're testing his pain threshold, and he feels better after that.

They always give him the option to swap out with someone else, just say the word and we'll hurt Jehan instead, we'll hurt Enjolras. Grantaire thinks that for people who watch him all day, every day, they're pretty clueless about what's going on inside his skull. They actually seem to think he's a stranger to pain.

Eventually they work it out.

"Grantaire, are you in pain?" She's a woman, faceless and white-coated, the same as the rest of them, Grantaire thinks maybe she's aiming for trustworthy, understanding.

"You're not doing anything to me yet," Grantaire drawls.

"No, I mean right now, with nothing else going on. Are you in pain?"

Grantaire laughs, more than a little hysterically, and when he stops she's still waiting patiently. "Just a bit," he says.

"I see."

&

He shouldn't have told them. They start giving him codeine, tramadol, morphine and he fights like a feral cat every time because he can’t stand them alleviating his misery only to bring it crashing back down on top of him. He’s got an addictive personality, he knows, he can feel the potential for unbounded obsessiveness inside himself. He just has to look at Enjolras to know he shouldn’t be trusted with good things.

&

"How long do you think it would take you to leave the compound?"

All the hairs on the back of Grantaire’s neck stand up.

"The locked and barred compound I've been imprisoned in my whole life, that the compound you’re, uh. Referring to?” Grantaire asks.

Phillips smiles in that way he does that makes Grantaire want to commit acts of violence upon his person. "Well we both know that's not quite true, don't we Grantaire?"

Grantaire doesn't answer but that's okay. Phillips loves monologuing.

"I think you could get out of here, Grantaire. I’ve seen your IQ scores. I think you could have left years ago."

"I don't agree," says Grantaire politely.

Phillips nods thoughtfully like they're having a conversation about nothing over a bar.

"How about I give you some incentive, would that help?"

Grantaire swallows, shakes his head.

Phillips nods decisively, "No, I think it would. You're very intelligent Grantaire, but you're lazy, you lack motivation."

"I have plenty of-"

"Alright, I'll give you half an hour to get out of the compound, and for every minute after that, I'll show Enjolras that game with the electricity that you and I enjoyed so much.”

"Thirty minutes," says Grantaire hollowly. "That's"

"A perfectly acceptable starting point."

"-impossible."

"Well I hope not,” Phillips says, insincerity pouring from his lips, his eyes, “We wouldn’t want Enjolras to get hurt.”

Grantaire feels a sudden and urgent desire to cry wash over him.

&

When Phillips starts the timer, Grantaire darts from the room.

He hums one of the songs that falls to the bottom of his head and blows around like a dust ball. 30 minutes. Nearly ten loops of the song.


Why did you throw the Jack of Hearts away? Why did you throw the Jack of Hearts away? It was the only card in the deck that I had left to play


He thinks about how dark the world is, how much the pain in his head tastes like blood on his tongue, thinks about staring into the mirror and saying over and over again, “I’m worthless, I’m worthless, I’m worthless.”

He walks right past a set of guards heading in the other direction.

For the first time, Grantaire wonders if Phillips had had other motivations than mindless sadism in that particular exercise.

He runs once he’s round the corner, down an echoing white corridor, left, left, right. He knows this place almost as well as he knows Enjolras’s profile in the sun, knows it far better than the exact shade of his own eyes.

He ducks into a staff bathroom—left unlocked, because why wouldn’t it be—and levers himself up onto the sink, then pushes a ceiling tile up and in, following it into the dusty spine of the ceiling. He crawls along the girders, skitters down an empty elevator shaft with his heart in his throat, mouthing to please the lions this day. He finds himself in the staff quarters, follows some intuitive baseline to the door that leads to the parking garage, then out into the bright, clear light of day. He’s reaching the ninth repetition of the song as he walks calmly across the empty open expanse of concrete between the institute and the outside gate.

He reaches the gate on and I’ll say it again, I need a brand new friend.

Phillips is waiting.

“Twenty nine minutes, forty seconds,” says Grantaire, feeling something victorious and golden spark in his chest.

Phillips douses him with his cold, pleased smile, “Excellent, Grantaire, excellent. We shall have to try a shorter time limit.”

Enjolras can never know, Grantaire thinks.

Never ever ever.

&

Feuilly and Bahorel arrive in a tumble of bickering and disaster. They snipe and snicker at each other in a near-constant rush, all grins and shoves. They prefer Grantaire's custom brand of distraction and prevarication over Enjolras's make-war-with-the-problem style of coping. Feuilly has orange hair and freckles over every square inch of his body. Bahorel has a floppy dark fringe that never stops getting into his smiling brown eyes. They both have endlessly scraped knees—trademarks of their favourite game, which involves divebombing a stationary Grantaire as fast as possible without hitting him or the ground, a feat they say is made harder by how difficult it is to see Grantaire in direct sunlight.

They stop when Feuilly kicks Grantaire in the head—trying to avoid a wandering Jehan—and Enjolras dives out of the sky like an avenging angel, pulls up in a perfectly executed flick of wings and screeches at them with enough fury to flay skin.

Grantaire blames it on Enjolras, then, when Feuilly and Bahorel go off in search of trouble and come across the razers. They honestly haven't got a chance in hell but that doesn't stop them from trying. Grantaire thinks that anyone stupid enough to fight humans with actual claws isn't exactly the pinnacle of evolution but he likes Feuilly and Bahorel, likes their humour and warmth and how they make even Eponine smile. So when it looks like they’re close to losing limbs he charges in after them, finds the ring-leader and makes him scream until no one is focused on hitting anyone, they're all too busy staring at him in him in horror. Grantaire loosens his hold on the boy’s upper arm and he drops to the ground like a doll.

Grantaire doesn't notice when the rest of them scatter or when Feuilly uncurls from his ball on the ground. He's too busy sucking in air, staring at the spinning clouds above him as the dizzy high rushes through him, so much better than morphine.

Feuilly gives him a shaky smile and Bahorel pats his back and they don't talk about it. It's for the best.

That night Enjolras curls into his neck and whispers, "Could you do that to anyone?" and Grantaire pretends to be asleep because he knows how ruthless Enjolras could be, if he was given half the chance.

&

No more than a fortnight afterwards, Enjolras and Grantaire get into what counts as a fight between them. That is, Grantaire says something glib and lighthearted at the wrong moment and Enjolras bursts into tears and storms off to hide in Grantaire's bed.

He's pretty sure the others think he's the devil when this happens. Enjolras is not a crier, not unless Grantaire disagrees with him. He takes that badly.

In this case, Grantaire has reminded Enjolras that escape is impossible if your captors listen to your every word, and that the mikes are probably definitely whisper-sensitive because if the people running this place are intelligent enough to create genetically spliced bird-children then they are smart enough to ensure their careers aren’t ruined by said children lowering their voices.

Normally Grantaire lets Enjolras have his plans, but he's tired and frustrated and he can't stand to see Enjolras rave on and on in the face of such hopelessness. And now Enjolras is quiet and moody and tearful and somehow Grantaire feels even worse. The next day when Enjolras, Combeferre and Courfeyrac are sitting in a circle of crossed legs, Grantaire drops a heavy textbook into the middle of their hexagon of limbs. It lands with a bam, and they all lean forwards to squint at it curiously.

"What percentage of US scientists do you think speak a foreign language?" Grantaire asks them casually. On the other side of the room, Eponine and Cosette look up in interest: Grantaire does not contribute to constructive conversation, as a rule. He answers his own question, "It's not high."

Enjolras looks up at him like Grantaire's just given him the best present in the whole wide world, not an old book of French verbs.

Combeferre adjusts his glasses and says, "Even if they don't have someone who speaks it, they could bring in a, a-"

Eponine cuts in with, "-There's hardly any staff, and they hardly ever change."

And Cosette continues, "They haven't, not the whole time we've been here."

Grantaire bends low and looks into Enjolras's wide gold eyes, “Even if one of them does speak French. We could adapt it, make it our own language.“

”Won’t they be able to keep up with us? Learn as we do?” Courfeyrac asks and Grantaire grins.

”Not if we’re faster.”

&

They rip the book into pieces; everyone gets a certain number of pages. It takes the staff three months to find all of them (Grantaire sticks his beneath Phillips's desk) and by that time they're all speaking in nothing but their own special brand of French. Grantaire, Jehan and Gavroche pick it up fastest, followed by Cosette and together they develop a fast-evolving dialect mixed in with made up words and other phrases they find in German and Arabic and Russian textbooks. The library is emptied of every book on language and by the end of the month anything with a glossary is gone. Bahorel and Feuilly's fluency trails in behind Enjolras, Courfeyrac and Combeferre, who spend every spare minute diligently writing verb tables out, and Eponine, whose instructions Gavroche has hitherto been ignoring on the grounds that, "Je ne parle pas Anglais, Eponine!"

Someone up top has obviously given the order to stop fretting about a bunch of captive children learning archaic languages because the staff stop trying to discipline them back into English. Grantaire is willing to bet the higher-up has never seen footage of Enjolras monologuing because there's goal oriented and then there's Enjolras, whose determination is an ungodly and destructive force that's actually slightly supernatural, if the rest of the flock are to be believed.

Nevertheless, Phillips is pissed. He's vicious with the pain tolerance tests and he makes Grantaire sit with his hand wrapped around the wrist of some razer girl for more than half an hour. Hours later her screams are still spiralling in his head like waves in a sea shell. The tests get stranger and stranger, hallucinogenics and interrogations about meaningless data - "What fruit was on the desk in the other room?" Fitness tests, repeatedly, till Grantaire can sprint from one end of the flying field to the other in minutes. Strategy and puzzles and memory games. A silent man with a straight back and cold, disinterested eyes teaches him how to fight.

Grantaire is very concerned.

&

Montparnasse is lounging in a long line against the wall of the examination room, his eyes sharp and glinting, when Grantaire is led in. The tester leaves, the door clicks behind her, and Grantaire asks, "What's all this about?"

"You tell me, boy genius," Montparnasse drawls. "I never know what the fuck's going on around here."

Grantaire joins Montparnasse against the wall, "Hows tricks?"

"They've started starving the weaker ones to see what happens. Social experiment or whatever."

Grantaire doesn't ask what happens. Montparnasse spits and says, "Why does every little bird around here suddenly not speak any English?"

"It's a cunning plan," says Grantaire. "To keep our hopes and dreams secret from the examiners."

"What, a diary isn't lame enough for you?"

"No, we have unlimited supplies on lame."

Montparnasse snickers and Grantaire grins back. As much as he loves his friends, he finds their boundless delusional optimism grating and, frankly, offensive. If getting out was that easy, he'd have got them out already, no matter how much Enjolras sparkled.

A speaker in the wall crackles to life. "Through the doors there is a maze. The quicker you navigate it, the quicker you get dinner."

A wall panel slides back and Grantaire and Montparnasse are confronted by a huge warehouse-like space, filled with towering white walls. The morass of halogen and plaster-white makes them both flinch.

"A maze," says Montparnasse, successfully fitting an eternity of contempt into one bitten off sentence.

Grantaire rivals him with a sigh. "Left or right?"

"What?"

"Nevermind, left is better, keeps our dominant hands free."

Montparnasse gives him a dry, "Whatever."

"Keep your left hand on the wall. If it's a static maze, we'll eventually come to an exit."

"How do you know? What if we miss it?"

"We can't miss it, mazes are circuits, idiot."

"You're an idiot." Montparnasse shoves him and they descend into a brief kicking fight before they agree that neither of them is an idiot, the Invigilators are idiots, and face the entrance to the maze again.

They’re reaching the fourth corner in the left hand side wall when Montparnasse puts a foot down and gets 30 milliamps of electrical current poured through his body. He freezes, mouth open in a silent cry of pain, and Grantaire hooks his leg round Montparnasse’s and knocks him off balance backwards, onto the floor behind them. The charged ground looks exactly the same as the rest of the ground they’ve been walking on.

“Fucking, bastards,” is the first thing Montparnasse manages to say, hissing through gritted teeth. “I fucking hate these people, I swear to God ‘Taire, I want them to die so fucking slow.”

Grantaire says, “I know,” but his attention is with the rest of his face, an inch from the wall. “It’s not humming,” he mumbles, then gingerly touches the plaster. He pulls his fingers back unscathed.

“What are you doing?” Montparnasse drawls, composure dragged back together.

“We’re going up and along,” Grantaire says decisively, “The wall’s broad enough to balance on.”

“Or we could just… Go another way?” Montparnasse suggests, looking queasy. “Any other way? Backwards? Hell, I’ll start digging.”

“It’s not even twice your height you idiot,” Grantaire laughs. “Give me a boost and I’ll help you up.”

“You’re wings haven’t magically started working again, have they?” Montparnasse asks with just a bit of desperation.

“No but if we fall I’m sure they’ll glide us to safety.”

“Really?”

“No, ‘Parnasse. The wall isn’t even seven feet, you don’t glide from seven feet, you fall. Quickly. With minimal bodily harm.”

Montparnasse narrows his eyes, “Fine. After you, Birdy.”

Grantaire springs from Montparnasse’s interlinked fingers and gets his elbows on the lip of the wall before pulling himself up. He has to straddle the wall and pull Montparnasse’s dead weight up with two hands, because wolf-human hybrids are not, it turns out, especially upwardly mobile. He tells Montparnasse as much when he’s finally managed to flop him, ragdoll-like, across the width of the wall. “Honestly do your people, like, eat rocks? What the fuck, Montparnasse?”

“Whatever, loser,” Montparnasse says sourly. “We can’t all be fucking Legolas.”

“What?”

“Ugh, you are wasted in a world without pop culture. Why don’t they let you lot watch TV, we would have so much fun together.”

“Control experiments, nature vs nurture, they hate us, I don’t know, pick one.”

They scootch along the walls, pulling with their arms, legs dangling. After a bit Grantaire says, “Well tell me, then. Who’s Legolas?”

Montparnasse’s resulting attempt at explaining The Lord of the Rings trilogy gets them another 10 bends further along the wall. Grantaire’s in the middle of saying, “So wait, wait, the creepy things have wings now?” When he’s abruptly out of breath and dizzy and tipping off the wall to the ground. His stomach barely has time to lurch before his head cracks off the ground. Well they didn’t mean to do that. Is all that can swim through the sudden fog of Grantaire’s thoughts because hello, head injury.

And actually, on reflection, he thinks. I don’t think that fog’s in my head. 

“Stay up there!” he manages to half-slur, half-shout at Montparnasse, who looks like he’s about to have a stroke, scrabbling around trying to find a way to get down without actually dropping from any heights. “Stay up there,” he says again, “I think there’s oh shit.”

Grantaire’s eyes aren’t blurry, they’re streaming with tears and the back of his throat is on fire and his heart is beating out of his chest. He tries to sit up and slides right back down again, all the while thinking oh my god I’m going to die and Enjolras won’t be able to sleep again ever and this really isn’t as peaceful as I would have imagined it. 

He hears a hissed, “For the love of—,” and a thump and then someone, Montparnasse is dragging him along the floor. Eventually, the awful pressing burning sensation diminishes and Grantaire can look up and wipe his stinging eyes.

Montparnasse is glowering at him.

“How didn’t you-” Grantaire starts.

“It’s in the air, dum-dum, you have to breathe it. I held my breath like a not-stupid person.”

“Like a not-stupid pers-”

“Shut up, my words are great.”

“Sure,” Grantaire says agreeably, standing back up. He doesn’t thank him—he doesn’t want to draw attention to Montparnasse doing a selfless thing for the benefit of another person in case Montparnasse has a breakdown and tries to kill him to reset the balance. “Anyway,” Grantaire continues.“That means we can run through it, as long as we hold our breaths.”

Montparnasse looks at him with utter disgust, “And we know when we no longer have to hold our breaths… How?”

“Well, I can hold mine for like, what, a minute? That’s a few hundred metres at least.”

“And what happens if the gas goes on for a thousand metres, but you’re 300 in and you can’t move, genius, how do we fix that?”

“Leave me to die?” Grantaire suggests. “It’s not like they’re going to do any permanent damage to us.”

“To you maybe,” Montparnasse mutters, which… Is actually a good point.

“Fine, we’ll count it as a dead end, take the other route from the left turn.”

Montparnasse’s hair hasn’t returned to his scalp since the last time he got electrocuted but somehow he still finds that preferable to getting abandoned on top of the wall again, so they walk. Carefully.

“So how’s things in the land of winged experimentation?” Montparnasse asks as they shuffle along. “Enjolras any less of an idiot?”

Grantaire gives him a resigned, suppressive look.

“I’m taking that as a no,” Montparnasse informs him.

“Take it as whatever you want,” says Grantaire, “Oh, hello.”

Set into the wall is a mechanism that most strongly reminds Grantaire of a giant three-wheeled padlock. Beside them is a metal lever.

Gingerly he pulls the lever down and, unsurprisingly, his body washes first cold then hot with the pain of an electric shock. He lets go and the lever lights up red and resets itself.

“How do you feel about potentially getting shocked nine hundred and ninety-nine times?” asks Grantaire, shaking his hand out.

“Unfavourably,” says Montparnasse shortly.

“Next turn it is,” says Grantaire.

When they stagger out of the maze, four hours later, Grantaire is half-dragging Montparnasse.

&

Montparnasse and Grantaire are in a shooting range, firing fake bullets from realistically heavy guns. Grantaire’s arms are unbelievably sore, weaving up and down as he tries to still his muscles through sheer force of will.

Montparnasse is much better, he’s been hitting the target for the last hour now. They’ve said they won’t let them out till they’re consistently getting bullseyes, and Grantaire believes them.

Montparnasse is sullen and miserable, “Three days, the headache from that gas lasted. This is your fault.”

“How,” Grantaire asks through gritted teeth, “Is this in any way my fault?” He fires three bullets, all of which go wide.

“Used to be I was left alone to mind my own business! But suddenly they’ve taken an interest in sticking me in weird, painful situations with you? Your fault.”

“I’m sorry the shit-hole of my life is making you sad, ‘Parnasse, is that what you want me to say? I’m sorry.”

“That is not an apologetic tone, Grantaire,” says Montparnasse, “and you’re doing that all wrong, look.”

Montparnasse grabs his arm then pauses. “What the fuck?” He jiggles Grantaire’s arm up and down, “Seriously, what the fuck? How are you so light?”

“Hollow bones?” Grantaire says, “I don’t know, they haven’t given me a primer on bird-kid physiology yet.”

“Well no wonder you can’t lift anything,” Montparnasse says indignantly, “That’d be like me lifting a bazooka.”

He turns sharply and hammers on the observation window moonlighting as a mirror, “Hey! If you want him to hit anything solid, you’re going to have to give him a gun he can lift!”

There’s silence and then a smaller, thinner gun gets delivered through a metal drawer in the wall. “Much obliged,” says Grantaire drily.

It takes another two hours but finally Montparnasse gets Grantaire to the point where he can hit the target nine times out of ten. They drop the guns back in the drawer and wait for the doors to unlock.

“Sorry,” says Grantaire, “You’d have been out a lot faster if not for me.”

Montparnasse sneers, “It’s not your fault. It’s theirs.” The face he makes at the nearby invigilator is more than a little toothy.

&

They’re taught how to fight using each other as punching bags. From overhearing the Invigilators through the years Grantaire thinks all of the flock are probably stronger than your average pack of free-range children, but the razers are stronger still. On more than one occasion Montparnasse has sent Grantaire flying across the room, something Montparnasse blames on Grantaire’s intrinsic aerodyanmic-ness and something Grantaire attributes to Montparnasse being an idiot. To balance out the strength differential, Grantaire is incredibly fast and—much to Montparnasse’s eternal disgust—not always entirely visible.

They’re trained in what feels like an endless array of fighting styles: Krav Maga, Karate, Judo, Boxing. Grantaire returns to Enjolras at the end of most days with bruises and cuts and a whole-body ache.

They ask him what’s going on, why he’s gone for so long during the day, why he misses lunch when the rest of them only have short sessions. He ignores them or distracts them or tells them some vaguery and Enjolras looks as worried and angry as he ever does.

Eponine sits down next to him, one day when he’s so sore from training that even his hair hurts. “Did you know that in a ten minute conversation with a stranger the average person tells three lies?” she asks abruptly. Grantaire starts, winces, and looks at her.

“No, Eponine, I did not know that. I don’t meet many strangers though. You might find this difficult to believe, given my many charms, but my circle of acquaintances is actually pretty small.”

“I read it somewhere. But I’d have known it anyway. You watch Invigilators who don’t know each other talk. They lie about stupid things. What they did at the weekend. What they thought about a movie. I guess it just makes the conversation flow better or something.”

“Okay?” Grantaire says.

“Invigilators lie to us all the time, obviously. This won’t hurt, I don’t know what this test is for, expect a sharp scratch, this is just procedure. Whatever. It’s just easier for them to lie to us that tell the truth. Maybe they lie to themselves too.”

“Sure…” Grantaire doesn’t much like where this is going.

“And we lie to each other. Not as much, but, like. Everything’s going to be okay. We’ll get out of here soon. Maybe they’re not 100% lies, but they’re not the truth, are they?”

“No.”

“Doesn’t it bother you?”

“No? Not really. I guess my default is disbelief so when it turns out something’s a lie, I’m not too cut up about it.”

“So I say something to you right now, you won’t believe it?”

“Well I won’t not believe it, I just don’t, like, discount the idea that it might be a lie.”

“But you can’t tell, for sure, when something’s a lie or when it’s not, right?”

“No…” Grantaire says.

“Right, so. I can.”

“You can what?”

“I know when people are lying. It’s like… Pebbles in my shoes. I feel it. I can’t ignore it.”

“You know when people lie?”

“Yes.”

“Like, guaranteed, 100% of the time, human-lie-detector-style?”

“I mean, yeah. I just think it’s really obvious. It’s like, the way people blink, the way their mouths move, where they take their breaths. It’s like… Out of key music.”

“Huh,” says Grantaire. “That’s cool, I guess?”

“It’s horrible. I’ve never told anyone but Cosette and Gav.”

“Really, why?”

“People trying not to lie is even more painful to watch than people actually lying.”

“Sure, I could see that,” Grantaire says. “So you know when anyone’s hiding anything?”

“Yep,” says Eponine. “Like with you, for example”

Grantaire looks at her out the corner of his eye, “I thought you said everyone hides stuff?”

“They do. But you hide a lot more than anyone else. What’s that about?”

“Are you telling me that the way I talk makes your head hurt?” asks Grantaire, amused.

“No, what I’m saying is, everything that you say is prevarication. Even just there, that was a distraction. You change the subject, you don’t answer questions, you make jokes. What I’m asking is why?”

Grantaire digs the toe of his shoe into the dirt. “I’ve got a whole lot of stuff inside my head that I don’t want getting out.”

“Why not?” Eponine asks, her eyes dark and steady on the side of his face.

“It’s not nice, I don’t want anyone getting hurt.”

“Like that thing you do, where you hurt people?”

“Yeah, like that.”

“So, you’re scared,” she says after reflection.

Grantaire nods slowly.

“Well, that makes more sense,” Eponine says with a sharp nod. She springs to her feet, “I was wondering.”

“Well, now you know.”

His tone seems to give her pause and she turns back, “If it helps any, I don’t think you’re scary at all.”

He smiles a small, crooked little thing, “Sure, it helps a bit.”

“Good,” she says, before running off to join Cosette.

&4


Grantaire has set foot outside of the Institute a sum total of five times, which is also the number of times it took for him to escape under close supervision before his timing plateaued to the a level that even threats to Enjolras couldn’t dip.

He’s seen real people though: people from outside the Institute. These people don’t wear blue coats, and they look normal, no genetic mutations to be seen. Grantaire is told to extract information from them sometimes: “Where’s Amelia?” over and over again, until his voice is hoarse, fingers tremulous, feather-light on the arcs of their wrists. They always break eventually.

Grantaire has heard the invigilators talk about him: “capable of inducing intolerable neuropathic-like pain,” and “creating the perception of negative stimuli in test subjects, without any evidence of cellular or tissue damage.”

All Grantaire knows is the people he hurts would give up anything rather than feel the pain he gives them. He knows that they’re living the last, worst hours of their lives… He knows that their brains are sawn out and sliced up and stared at. He knows he’d rather be dead than live like this, all things considered.

One grisly Thursday evening, he and Montparnasse are loaded into a van and taken out of the Institute. Grantaire is a complete mess, “Where are we going?” he asks the driver, again and again. “Hey! You! Where are we going? I won’t stop shouting till you tell me, fair warning.”

Eventually they tell him they don’t know, presumably just to get him to shut up. He sinks onto the rattling floor and meets Montparnasse’s eyes, glinting with unfamiliar life.

“Don’t worry birdy, they’re not going to separate you from your beloved.” Montparnasse stretches out on his back, arms thrown up behind his head. “It’s the only way they’ve got of keeping you in line. And they don’t want you out of line, believe me.”

They’re in the van three hours before it rattles to a stop. Orange light from the street outside filters through from the front windscreen in strange triangles and stripes. The door clicks open and a sweep of cool night air rushes in. A broad man follows, the climb audibly exerting him. His button-like eyes are hidden behind small, squint glasses. He sits down on a narrow bench built into the side of the van and eyes them.

“I’m here to deliver your objective,” he says matter-of-factly.

There’s a long pause. Montparnasse laughs soundlessly from where he’s leaning against the wall of the van.

Eventually, out of awkwardness more than anything else, Grantaire asks, “What?”


“You are to retrieve the contents of the safe in the sitting room and kill the inhabitants of the house.”

Grantaire freezes.

The man looks, for one fraction of a moment, unnerved. His eyes skirt around Grantaire, seemingly unable to focus.

“What if we say no?” Montparnasse asks with idle curiosity.

The man clears his throat and reaches into a pocket, taking a deep rattling breath. He withdraws a piece of paper, and squints down at it. Grantaire wants to hit him in his squishy, horrible face. 

“The information I have, is that if you,” he nods his head at Grantaire, “do not comply, then ah-Enjolras will be used in an upcoming experiment. Its aim is to determine whether your powers are inducible when you are unconscious. If you do comply, the other participant will be a stranger.”

Montparnasse rolls his eyes, “The Enjolras card, I’m shocked. Grantaire, aren’t you just, like, astonished?”

Grantaire is too locked down in terror to process the words but he flashes Montparnasse a smile for the rallying call anyway.

“And, uh, you,” the man says to Montparnasse, completely unfazed, “I’ve been told that if you refuse to comply, you’ll be going without food for two weeks.”

“Oh fuck you,” Montparnasse spits, suddenly wielding a mouthful of exposed teeth, “Fuck all of you. That’s a fucking death sentence in that place.” He goes silent for a few moments, collecting himself. Then. “Fine,” he says emotionlessly. “Fine. Kill the inhabitants, how exactly??”

The man presents him with two guns, one smaller and lighter than the other. Grantaire chokes back a sudden, shocking sob.

“You will arrive at the target location in 47 minutes, at which point you will find the doors unlocked. If you fail to complete your tasks, the stated punishments will be carried out. If you are caught, you will be retrieved by the Institute and the punishments will be carried out.”

The man heaves himself to his feet and slams the door of the van behind him. The silence for the next 47 minutes is deafening.

The van stops outside a house on a quiet suburban road. Trees line the wide street, cars sit snug in their drive-ways. Every so often there’s a quiet hiss of a sprinkler jumping to life. The street lights are amber and steady, casting strange shadows. When Grantaire exits the van, shaking out the sleep from his legs, a monstrous shadow sprawls out in front of him, limbs frighteningly long and sinister. Montparnasse alights from the van behind him like a big wary cat.

“This the one?” Montparnasse murmurs, nodding at the house.

“Guess so,” mumbles Grantaire.

They walk up to a huge, spreading white gate. Its ornate swirls provide perfect foot holds and within 30 seconds Grantaire is dropping silently to the ground on the other side. Montparnasse takes slightly longer, and swears the whole time.

They both creep up the dark driveway and the brash surreality of the situation bursts suddenly onto Grantaire. He has to stuff his fist in his mouth to stifle the giggles that creep up his throat from the nausea in his gut. Montparnasse spins on the spot to demand, silently, disbelievingly, just what the fuck Grantaire thinks he’s doing. This makes Grantaire laugh even harder, bent double, a horrible high-pitched whine escaping through his clenched teeth. Montparnasse scowls, hesitates, and then smacks Grantaire hard across the face. The sound rings out in the quiet. “Get it the fuck together, Grantaire,” he hisses. “We do the job, we get out, we have an existential fucking breakdown about it later.”

Grantaire sobers like he’s had ice water thrown over him, nods shakily, and stands up. “Okay,” he says. “Okay.”

Montparnasse eyes him warily but seems to take his word for it.

Halfway up the drive, the area floods with awful light. Grantaire pulls Montparnasse into his arms, envelops him in his shroud of opacity, and they slip up the edge of the driveway, their combined shadow a strange, many-limbed monster looming behind them.

They arrive at the big white front door and find it helpfully unlocked. A glance at the inside wall determines that the whole house uses an electronic locking system which has now been disarmed.

Grantaire heads for what he assumes is the sitting room - that is, the room with the most furniture for sitting - and starts scouring it for a safe. Montparnasse slinks off in the direction of the kitchen. Montparnasse has ever-present priorities that aren’t at all swayed by the prospect of murder in his imminent future. And all of them involve food.

Grantaire abruptly realises that even though he’s caught glimpses of sets on TV, he’s never been in a real house—a real home before. Looking around at the soft, worn couches, the bright red rug with its corner turned up, the family photos, he feels like he’s in an alien landscape, stranger than any maze or mirror room the Institute has locked him in. Grantaire avoids the photos lining the walls with the same studiousness that he avoids his reflection in the mirror. Unfortunately, like his reflection, they’re unshakeable from his peripheral vision, even while he concentrates on searching for a safe. He eventually finds one tucked under a low coffee table and gets down on his belly to pull it out. It’s been electrically disabled too, four zeros blinking stupidly at him.

The door swings open silently to reveal a small pile of passports and a stack of loose cash. Montparnasse reappears, crunching on an apple, and between the two of them they manage to stuff the contents of the safe into their pockets and the waistbands of their regulation institute pants.

Once that’s done they don’t move. Grantaire stares at the floor and Montparnasse gazes out the window, expression strangely thoughtful. Eventually Montparnasse blinks and starts to life, picks up Grantaire’s gun from where he’s left it on the coffee table, and hands it back to him. Then he leads the way up the stairs on tiptoe, stilling at every stray creak before moving on. When they reach the top landing, they’re confronted with a hallway of identical white doors. Their soft, curving door-handles gleam in the dull light. Montparnasse tries the first door on the right - a storage cupboard - and Grantaire cracks open the first on the left. Two twin-sized beds are tucked into opposite corners of the room. One is covered in pink flowers that seem grey in the darkness. The other has black and blue zig-sag patterns. There are two tiny breathing lumps under the covers. Grantaire’s blood runs cold in his veins, freezing his fingers and the tip of his nose and his lungs. He looks at his hands and feels like he barely exists. The tip of his shoe stutters on something and it’s a door stopper with a big cartoon flower at the end. He snatches it off the floor, closes the door, takes a moment to thank whatever God might be listening that the door opens outwards, and kicks the stopper under the door crack. Montparnasse, creeping back out into the hall from what Grantaire can see is a bathroom, gives him a slitted, suspicious look that he ignores.

There’s only one door left in the hallway. They approach it together and Montparnasse opens it. There’s a man asleep in a big double bed, chest bare, arm thrown up over his head, mouth open in a snore. Grantaire backs down the corridor, away from the room, and slumps down against the wall. He can’t get his breathing under control, he feels like he’s about to die, just reach the end of everything in this strange, perfect home, finally get to sleep without being scared. Montparnasse is above him looking down, face mostly expressionless. Then he sighs and walks away, down the hall towards the master bedroom. Three long, stretched out moments later there’s a bang like a door slamming, and Montparnasse walks back out. He grabs Grantaire by the arm and pulls him up and along. He gives Grantaire’s hand - loose on its own cold metal gun - a quick, assessing look before pulling the gun free, clicking the safety on, and transferring it to his pocket. They stagger out into the driveway, past the entrance to the sitting room, and the blinking, useless security light. This time the darkness presses in on them tightly, oppressive, and the floodlight doesn’t seem to turn on.

The van is still idling by the curb and they open the doors and climb in. Almost instantly, they’re on the move again. Grantaire curls up into a ball and stays there for some long, indeterminate amount of time. Eventually he looks up. Montparnasse is sitting on the bench, head tilted back, eyes closed, possibly asleep.

“What was it like?” Grantaire asks, finding his voice surprisingly steady.

“Easy,” says Montparnasse shortly, “I don’t give a fuck about that guy. I give a fuck about myself.”

Grantaire feels his face crumple with the urge to cry, feels grief swell in the back of his throat, “I’m sorry,” he chokes.

Montparnasse sighs, “Go to sleep, Birdy,” and pulls Grantaire’s head down into his lap, not without force.

Grantaire drops immediately into a restless, nauseous sleep.

&

Grantaire doesn’t get punished for letting the children live. He has a feeling that the whole thing was a test to see how far they could push him and Montparnasse. He has a horrible feeling they passed with flying colours.

Phillips has him in their little mirrored room and Grantaire feels sick and like he wants to crawl out of his own skin.

“Do you feel like a pessimist, Grantaire? A cynic?”

Grantaire scowls at him from under his eyebrows.

“Your friends think you are. Enjolras thinks you are. He thinks you see the worst in everything, but you don’t, do you?” Phillips coos. Grantaire makes no attempt to hide his recoil as Phillips approaches, skirting the table between them. “You’re a realist, aren’t you? You see everything exactly as it is.”

Grantaire follows him with his eyes until he can’t any more, until Phillips is directly behind him, breathing on his neck.

“And isn’t this just the worst place in the world, to be a realist,” Phillips laughs.

The hairs on Grantaire’s neck shoot up, his back hunches, bile rises unpleasantly in his throat.

Phillips makes his way around the table again and Grantaire’s back aches as the muscles relax from their collective spasm.

“How did you feel?” Phillips asks, “When you were standing in that doorway, trying to convince yourself to kill an innocent man? How did you feel?”

Grantaire levels him with a dull stare, “Peachy keen, sir.”

“I saw the tape, it looks to me like you had a panic attack. Tell me, Grantaire, did it feel like you were going to die? Did you think your heart was going to stop?”

Grantaire pushes down on the unexpected wave of nausea that comes sweeping up from his gut. “Sure, why not, whatever gets you off, sir.”

Phillips raises his eyebrows but says nothing, smile firmly in place.

Grantaire hates this man. “So, what’s the plan?” he derails, trying for flippant, hitting panicked.

“What plan?”

“The plan that involves me and Montparnasse being taught how to kill people, what’s that about? Are you selling us off or something?” Grantaire’s brain catches up faster than Phillips can reply. “Oh fuck, you are selling us off. To who?”

“I imagine it will be to whomever bids the highest. And after that demonstration, there will be plenty of bids.”

“I thought the aim was to experiment on us until we all died from genetic defects or old age,” Grantaire says, to mask his building panic.

“Mmm,” Phillips smiles, amused, “That’s broadly the aim. But it’s been decided that some of you present a more valuable set of assets. Assets that could yield exactly the kind of capital gain that the Institute requires to fund more projects.” Grantaire can’t dwell on how angry, how disgusted, how guilty that makes him feel. He doesn’t want to be sold off to fund the ruination of more children’s lives. He’d rather kill himself. It would be the decent thing to do, the only right thing left to him.

He aims some of that disgust at Phillips, “So what will you do, once some rich fucker buys me? I thought torturing me was your life’s work. How will you cope?”

“Oh, don’t worry Grantaire,” says Phillips, “Whoever wins the bid for you will doubtless employ me as your handler. After all, I’m the only one who understands you. I’m the only one knows how to make you do as your told.” Phillips’s eyes are that horrible gleaming way they get when Grantaire’s a weeping mess.

Grantaire’s future stretches out in front of him, and he never ever wants to see it unfold. 

&

They’re in another maze. The walls are covered in electrified netting so they’re walking slowly. And carefully. So far Grantaire has accidentally burned his fingers and Montparnasse has nearly lost one.

“Why didn’t you run?” Grantaire asks Montparnasse. “That night at the house. You had money, I wouldn’t have stopped you. You even had a passport. Even if they could find you they’d have had difficulty actually catching you. I mean, you’re like an alpha or whatever, none of the razers would be able to bring you back in. Why didn’t you run?”

Montparnasse looks at Grantaire with every single ounce of his derision. 

“Fine, Birdy, let’s walk that one through,” Montparnasse snarls. “I run away. You go back because golly, what is life without dearest Enjolras? They tell you, this is where Montparnasse is, you know, that guy who used to be your only friend. Be a doll and go get him for us or we’ll give Enjy a hangnail. You can’t even argue with me, I can see it in your face, I know exactly what you’d do.”

Montparnasse doesn’t look very bothered but Grantaire feels awful, and guilty, because he knows exactly what he’d do, too.

Montparnasse continues, “And you know what, I’m not even angry. I just feel sad for you. That kid is going to be the death of you, and you’re not going to fight it or complain, you’re just going to let it happen. But you know what I really don’t get? Why the fuck you think he’s so much more important than you are. Like, me? I’m the centre of my own fucking universe. There’s no one looking out for me but me. That’s how we survive in this world, Birdy, we fight for ourselves. God knows no one else is going to do it. So why does Enjolras deserve to be the most important person in your world? He’s just a kid, just like the rest of us, he’s nothing special, you don’t need him.”

“I do need him,” says Grantaire, “He’s my friend.”

“No he’s not,” says Montparnasse. “I’m your friend. See—we banter, we have our little jokes, we even look out for each other sometimes. I hold your fucking hand to fall asleep at night. I don’t need you. I need, like, air. And food. And water. And I need to sleep sometimes. I don’t need any person but myself to live.”

Grantaire shrugs his shoulders and for some awful reason feels his eyes fill with tears. “How could I possibly rely on myself, ‘Parnasse? Have you seen me? You know sometimes when I close my eyes at night I feel like I don’t exist? I feel like I’ve dropped out of the world, like I’m made of nothing, like smoke or a shadow or something. I feel like I can just slide away.”

Montparnasse’s face starts out annoyed and twists into incredulity, “You feel like you don’t exist? Jesus Christ, Grantaire, this is why we don't talk about feelings. What’s wrong with just feeling sad? Why’d you have to make it weird?”

Grantaire laughs and they make their way round another corner, poking their heads round first, then their feet, tentatively.

“Anyway,” Montparnasse says shrugging. “I’m not running away from here if there’s any chance of them dragging me back. Which means I’m not going while you’re still here.” He pauses, then directs the next shout at the ceiling, “You hear that? Not a threat! So give me a fucking break already!”

Montparnasse catches Grantaire’s amused gaze and wrinkles his nose, “And don’t get me wrong. I don’t give a single fuck about you. But I won’t get away from here if you’re still here to drag me back. And as we’ve already established, you’re not leaving without your lame little winged posse. And that’s definitely not happening.”

Grantaire closes his eyes, “Believe me, I know. If I have to hear one more escape plan that involves disguises I’m going to start screaming.”

“So they’ve never come up with a good escape plan?” Montparnasse asks, idly sliding his foot out in widening circles in front of them, testing carefully for electric charges. “You think they’d come up with a few workable ways out, just out of pure chance.”

“Well the real problem is the numbers. Enjolras would never consider splitting up to get out, leave no man behind and all that. And as a strategy that’s… Well it’s useless. It makes escape impossible. We’re under supervision 24/7. You would literally need to blow up the building to create a distraction big enough for that to be feasible. But, I’m not going to be the one to break it to them.”

Montparnasse shrugs, amused, “Seems to me there’s lots of things you don’t tell them. Maybe they’re not as stupid as you think.”

“They’re not stupid,” Grantaire says, defensively. “That doesn’t mean I want them to know how fucked we are.”

“Maybe they’re not as weak as you think either.”

“If they weren’t weak they’d have worked it out already,” Grantaire snaps. “Because they’re not stupid.” Grantaire regrets saying the words before they’ve even left his mouth, not because he doesn’t think they’re true, but because they seem even truer once they’ve been said aloud. 

Montparnasse just raises an eyebrow into his customary mocking arc, “Whatever you say, Birdy. Must be lonely all the way up there in your tower.”

Grantaire ignores him until they find the exit.

&5


The sun is warm and huge in the sky the day that Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta arrive. Musichetta is, besides Enjolras, the most beautiful person Grantaire has ever seen. Her skin is a warm, smooth sepia, her eyes a deep dark brown. Everything about her reminds Grantaire of the warm summer evenings that have started to fold in. Bossuet is taller than any of them, even some of the Invigilators, and his dark hair is shorn so close you can see the delicate shape of his skull. As far as Grantaire can see he doesn’t speak a word, but he has a huge, dazzling smile, rich dark brown skin, and eyes that mimic the smooth ochre of the acorns Jehan collects. There’s gentleness in his every movement. Beside them, Joly looks small and shaky and pale. His mussy, bark-brown hair falls heedlessly into his eyes, often causing him to shake his head vigorously in the middle of conversation. He has a gap between his front teeth and big, startled blue eyes and he’s absolutely terrified of something. Grantaire doesn’t know what.

They are friendly and warm, and completely inseparable in the needy, desperate way that Grantaire recognises from himself and Enjolras. They push their bunks together and sleep in a tangled pile, they keep crashing into each other in the flying grounds because Joly doesn’t seem to have the most accurate grasp of his wing span and Bossuet somehow manages to fall over while in the air.

Grantaire, Jehan, Feuilly, Bahorel and Eponine are lying on the ground underneath the acorn tree. Enjolras, Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Cosette are standing a bit away, talking enthusiastically. Grantaire watches Enjolras sweep his arms around in huge, hopeful arcs, and he can’t stop the smile that melts onto his face. Feuilly and Eponine are engaging in a thumb war of such epic proportions that Bahorel has been elbowed in the ribs seven times and counting. Jehan is dodging every stray limb that comes his way, which Grantaire isn’t thinking too hard about, because thinking about Jehan’s spatial awareness makes his head hurt.

Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta are attempting to fly in a tumbling mess of wings and limbs above them. “How are they doing?” Jehan asks, tilting his face up to the warm sky.

“Well,” Eponine says, without looking up. “They’re not falling.”

“Yet,” adds Feuilly.

Grantaire snorts, “Someone needs to explain primaries and secondaries to those guys. Pronto. Also, gliding.”

Eponine rolls her eyes and struggles to pin Feuilly’s wiggling thumb down, “Whatever, penguin.”

“That’s insensitive Ep. You’re insensitive,” Grantaire says.

“I’m very sensitive,” Eponine says.

“No, you’re not,” Bahorel and Feuilly say in chorus.

“That being said,” Bahorel muses. “I disagree with the premise that Grantaire is a cute, cuddly penguin.”

Feuilly nods and nearly breaks his wrist trying to launch an attack on Eponine, “Maybe, like, a chicken.”

Bahorel points his finger at Feuilly, “Definitely a chicken.”

“Jehan,” appeals Grantaire. “They’re calling me poultry, Jehan.”

“You’re a beautiful swan, dear,” says Jehan distractedly. He’s sorting his acorns by colour. Somehow. Then he looks up, distracted, “Here’s a question. What’s up with the boy who talks?”

Bahorel frowns and looks at Feuilly, who clarifies, “Is that a philosophical question or…”

“No. Joly, right? The one who talks.”

“Ah,” says Grantaire, “Yeah, he’s freaked out. I don’t know what that’s about.”

“Definitely hiding something,” Eponine says.

“Wait what?” Bahorel asks, “You guys are so weird. Is anyone not a bit freaked out, like, all the time? Because that’s pretty much my baseline.”

“He’s more freaked out, idiot,” says Eponine, “That kid flinches every time Gavroche moves and you can tell that most of what he says isn’t what he’s thinking.”

“I mean, I agree with you,” muses Grantaire, looking up at the sky to where Gavroche is darting back and forwards in a zig-zag pattern. “But I’m not sure that flinching when Gavroche moves isn’t actually the soundest option available to us all.”

Jehan nods enthusiastically.

“What are we talking about?” chirps Cosette, sliding gracefully onto the grass next to Eponine, who wins the thumb war at that moment and lets out a crow of glee into Feuilly’s disgruntled face.

“Revolution!” Grantaire shouts. Enjolras huffs wordlessly and drops next to him. “Hello, sunshine,” Grantaire says cheerfully.

“Which model for revolutionary change do you support, ‘Taire?” asks Courfeyrac with a wicked smile.

“I didn’t know there was going to be a quiz,” says Grantaire blankly. “Enjolras, help.”

“No,” says Enjolras, lying back so his head rests on Grantaire’s lap and closing his eyes.

“What is even the use of you?” Grantaire asks Enjolras seriously, running his fingers through Enjolras’s mane of blonde curls.

“We have a problem,” says Combeferre as he cleans his glasses, “How are we going to teach Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta our language, without also teaching the Invigilators?”

“Well Bossuet doesn’t seem to speak so that’s a third of the problem gone,” says Eponine matter-of-factly from where she’s pulling Cosette’s hair into a plait.

Cosette turns to look at her reprovingly, “He still has to understand us, Ponine.”

“Otherwise how will we effectively plan our escape?” asks Grantaire over-earnestly, immediately receiving a sightless swat to the head from Enjolras.

Courfeyrac grins at Grantaire, “Bet you can’t think of a solution.”

“I can too,” Grantaire says, appalled. “You just have to strip down to your underwear and teach them in the air.”

Courfeyrac laughs, Feuilly says, “Our underwear?!” and Enjolras mutters, “That wasn’t even discrete reverse psychology, ‘Taire.”

“There are microphones in our buttons,” says Grantaire to Feuilly, ignoring Enjolras.

Feuilly looks down at his regulation coat, evidently deeply offended.

“That’ll work,” says Combeferre with a smile, “Thank you, Grantaire.”

“Where’s my thanks?” yelps Courfeyrac.

“Combeferre loves me more than you,” Grantaire tells him seriously. “This is his way of telling you.”

“’Ferre!” whines Courfeyrac, “Tell him you love me best.”

“Yes dear,” says Combeferre absently, looking at Enjolras and Cosette. “How do you think we should structure our teaching? Teach them grammar and rely on immersion for the rest?”

“And verb tenses,” Enjolras says, opening his eyes and sitting up because Combeferre obviously deserves his complete attention. “I still have difficulty with tenses.”

“Oh, I know you will,” quips Grantaire.

“Oh, do we tutoyer now?” Enjolras asks, quirking an eyebrow and Grantaire laughs in delight.

“I found immersion to be the most useful,” says Cosette, “But then we were all learning together, maybe it’ll be different for them.”

“Maybe they don’t want to learn French,” mutters Feuilly. “I hate learning French.”

“Everyone in the world knows that, Feu,” says Eponine, rolling her eyes.

“Well everyone can stand to hear it again.”

”Is it even French when it’s so garbled?” Courfeyrac muses. “Like, we use Russian swear words.” 

”Are you saying we should come up with a different name for our language?” asks Grantaire. 

”Ooooh yes, now that you mention it, I think I am,” says Courfeyrac. 

”Flockish?” Grantaire asks. Enjolras wrinkles his nose in amusement.

”I like Flockish,” says Jehan neutrally. 

”Does Flockish still have verb tables?” Bahorel asks.

”I bet it does,” says Feuilly mournfully.

“Shit!” Eponine shouts, jumping to her feet, nearly ripping Cosette’s hair out by the roots. The rest of them follow her wide stare upwards to see Bossuet plummeting headfirst towards the ground. Courfeyrac and Bahorel are the fastest to react, taking off from the ground with such force that Eponine is knocked back to the ground by the force of their wings. Gavroche has rocketed to Bossuet’s side and is nearly tearing his own wings apart trying to slow his descent. Musichetta and Joly are frantically trying to work out how to dive, it’s a different technique from the slow decline and no one’s bothered to teach them yet.

Courfeyrac and Bahorel nearly collide with the Gavroche-Bossuet tangle and Gavroche instantly spins off towards the ground, into Cosette’s open arms. Feuilly catches up with Courfeyrac and Bahorel but can’t safely get near Bossuet, what with their collective wingspans. Instead he stays beneath them because Bossuet seems to be struggling and he could easily jerk his way out of their grip. When they get to within three metres of the ground they’re able to drop Bossuet into Enjolras and Grantaire’s arms. They lower Bossuet, arms twitching, wings trembling, onto the ground. His eyes are rolled back into this head and there’s a string of saliva down the side of his face. Feuilly, Bahorel and Courfeyrac thump to the ground at a reasonable distance from each other and speed back over to the group.

Grantaire makes a move to grab his head and Combeferre stops him with a hand to the elbow, “Don’t. He’s, ah, I think he’s having a seizure. We shouldn’t hold him down. I read it somewhere.”

“Is he dead?” asks Gavroche, who’s being fussed over by Eponine and Cosette because he’s torn both supracoracoideus muscles in his chest and can barely stand up straight.

Joly and Musichetta land painfully hard nearby and run towards him. “Don’t touch him!” Musichetta snaps and Grantaire holds his hands up in surrender. Joly has tears pouring down his face and over the bridge of his freckled nose. They both kneel down next to Bossuet in protective hunches, Joly sobbing and Musichetta saying over and over again, “It’s okay, it’ll be okay, it’s okay Sweets.”

“Has this happened before?” Combeferre asks, his voice a steady comforting weight. Grantaire is convinced Combeferre’s a little magic, sometimes. Somehow he makes you feel better through sheer proximity.

“Yes,” says Musichetta, “But obviously we’ve never been flying before when it happens. This was our first time going to any kind of height, the last place we were in was- Oh this was so stupid I should never have let him go up there, of course this would happen.”

“You weren’t to know,” Combeferre says gently. “And we caught him, he’s fine. How long does it normally take him to recover?”

“A few minutes,” says Joly. “See, the tremors are gone now, he’s fine. It’ll just take him a little while to stop being groggy.”

“Heads up,” says Feuilly. Everyone except Joly, Musichetta and Bossuet look up sharply. A group Invigilators are making their way across the flying field.

“Shit,” says Courfeyrac emphatically.

Musichetta looks up at that and her big dark eyes go round with horror. “No,” she says blankly, “No.”

“It’s okay,” Cosette says soothingly, kneeling down next to them, “They’ll just take him to medical to make sure he’s alright-”

Joly jerks and looks up at her. His entire face has gone patchy white except for his eyes which are rimmed red. He blinks frantically. “No. He can’t go to medical. He can’t. Musichetta, they can’t.”

“I know, Joly!” Musichetta replies, a little shrilly.

“What are you afraid is going to happen?” asks Enjolras, steadily meeting first Musichetta, then Joly’s eyes.

Musichetta just shakes her head, bends double over Bossuet’s chest. Joly folds in on himself, trembling all over.

The Invigilators are five metres or so away and Enjolras strides over to meet them, followed by Courfeyrac and Combeferre. “Stop,” he says, and they look at him with amusement and annoyance and disbelief, which is pretty much the standard reaction that Invigilators give Enjolras. “Where are you taking him?”

“We’re taking him to the hospital room to recover,” says the Invigilator who is marginally more tolerant of Enjolras. “It’s nothing to be concerned about.”

“Lie,” says Eponine.

“He just had a fit or something, they said it happens all the time,” says Courfeyrac. “Nothing to worry about!”

“They’re very distressed already,” says Combeferre reasonably, “We know you’ve not got anything sinister planned but they’ve obviously experienced some trauma already. Wouldn’t it be better to leave this for another day?”

“No, it wouldn’t-” starts one of the Invigilators and Enjolras talks right over him with certainty,

“Well you’re not taking him. You’ll have to go through us first.”

The Invigilators look behind Enjolras and see that Jehan, Grantaire, Feuilly, Bahorel, Cosette, Eponine and Gavroche have formed a line blocking Bahorel, Musichetta and Joly from view.

Grantaire sees the authoritarian certainty slide from the Invigilator’s faces along with, presumably, their desire to engage in a brawl with thirteen winged children of various temperaments, including one who can initiate neuropathic pain on a whim.

Yeah, he thinks that last part is pretty important actually. Most of the Invigilators’ eyes fall on him in a way that makes him feel gross, like a monster or a really nasty, insectile bug. Like they’re scared of him.

Grantaire meets the eyes of every single one, face carefully blank. Maybe being a monster isn’t the worst thing in the world, after all.

One of the Invigilators turns to Combeferre, that eternal voice of reason, and says decisively, “If the situation is as you say, we will leave our medical examination of Bossuet to another day.” The others are still looking at Grantaire as if they’re afraid to break eye contact. Grantaire does his best to creep them out further by smiling cheerfully. They don’t like that.

They shuffle off, and Grantaire swings an arm around Enjolras’s neck, heart swelling with relief. “Will there ever be a fight you won’t charge into without looking back?” he asks, nose and mouth full of blonde curls.

“You were behind me, weren’t you?” Enjolras asks, titling his head into Grantaire’s in a gentle nuzzle. “Why would I need to look back?”

&6


Grantaire isn’t sure whether it’s to do with them literally catching Bossuet out of the sky, or their stance with the Invigilators, but Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet seem much more trusting of them from that point on. To the point that they let Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Combeferre and Cosette teach them Flockish, sotto-shouting lists of verbs back and forth over the wind, dressed in nothing but their standard-issue underwear. When they come down they’re frozen from the wind chill and breathless from shouting. Everyone helps them practice, speaks slower and corrects tenses, and very quickly Musichetta and Joly are at a communicable level of fluency. Bossuet still hasn’t said a word to any of them, but he seems to understand them fine, so they don’t worry too much about it.

They save their concern for Joly.

Monday to Thursday are the experimental days. A timetable is posted at the beginning of the week that determines where they each spend their morning and afternoon sessions. For most of them it’s a case of testing flight capacity, psychological evaluation and health check ups. Grantaire knows that Jehan has to take part in strange, obscure experiments that involve navigating rooms with obstacles and estimating the width of corridors without touching them. Combeferre and Courfeyrac are the darlings of the sociology department and come pack pale and hoarse: “They just want us to talk to people,” Courfeyrac says tiredly. “But for hours. And then answer questions about them. It’s so weird.” Grantaire, well, he doesn’t talk about the experiments responsible for his day-long absences.

Most of the Invigilators have their own personal research projects. Some of them are relatively innocuous, like the tests they make Eponine do: flat, inflectionless voices sound out over a loudspeaker, and she responds with truth or lie to every statement she’s given. Others are brutal and invasive. When they were ten, an Invigilator had used Feuilly to test regenerative skin capacity by repeatedly burning the soft skin of his forearms, then covering the wounds with foul-smelling clay masks. But sessions are almost always timetabled and confined to the hours of the Invigilators’ working days.

Joly is taken in on a Tuesday morning and by Wednesday hasn’t returned. Musichetta scuffs long black polish lines into the floor of the dorm, her pacing a relentless, monotonous movement, and her nails are bitten and bleeding. Bossuet, if possible, is even quieter, his movements tiny and stifled. Jehan nearly sits on him twice.

“Where is he?!” Musichetta demands of a helpless Courfeyrac. “Is it normal for him to be gone this long?”

“Grantaire sometimes is,” Courfeyrac says weakly. “And he’s always…Okay.”

Musichetta darts a look at Grantaire, who does his best to nod reassuringly. She does not look reassured. Combeferre halts her mid-pace with gentle hands on her shoulders, “Worrying about him won’t make him any safer. It’s not productive. Be ready to look after him as best you can, don’t waste your energy on the worst case scenario—it hardy ever happens—and keep yourself busy. We’re brainstorming escape plans right now, join us.”

Grantaire swallows and tucks his chin into his chest, because those words are just a little too quick, too rote, when they roll off of Combeferre’s tongue. Come to think of it, Enjolras has been practically on top of Grantaire for the last 24 hours. What does he look like, when Grantaire’s the one that doesn’t come back?

Joly doesn’t reappear until late Wednesday evening and when he does, he is accompanied by a heavy limp. 

Musichetta and Bossuet are beside him immediately, but seem strangely afraid to touch him, their hands hovering uselessly. Joly is the one who throws himself into their arms, chest heaving with sobs. The three of them drop to the ground in a barely controlled fall. Under his trousers, Joly’s legs are plastered with bloody bandages.

The next day they come to take Joly away again and Musichetta absolutely loses it. She claws one Invigilator across the face, kicks another and comes away with a chunk of one woman’s hair. 

“Sedate her,” the now-partially-bald Invigilator snaps, and they push a long cold needle into Musichetta’s thin, brown, thrashing arm. She drops liquidly to her bunk.

Bossuet is towering protectively over Joly, looking about as threatening as a long blade of grass. “You want jabbed too?” demands the Invigilator and Joly scrambles out from behind him.

“No,” he says tearfully. “No, I’m fine, Bossuet, I’ll be fine. Look after Musichetta, I’ll be back soon.”

Bossuet doesn’t let go of Joly’s hand, just gives him a wide, pleading look.

Enjolras looks like he wants to stride right into the fray and get himself sedated. At some point Grantaire has secured a firm grip on his elbow.

Joly mouths something at Bossuet and he reluctantly lets go. Joly is ushered out and Bossuet crumbles next to Musichetta’s prone body.

The rest exchange glances and Combeferre is the first to volunteer himself as counsellor. “The sedation will knock her out for a few hours,” he says gently. “To her, it’ll just be like she’s asleep.”

Bossuet nods jerkily in reply, not taking his eyes of Musichetta.

“And Joly will be fine too,” adds Courfeyrac, prompting Eponine to squirm in her shoes and wander away.

“Would you like to come out to the flying grounds?” asks Cosette, intense niceness overcoming her awkward, coltish shyness. Her eyes hold the open kind of sympathy that makes Grantaire cringe whenever it’s directed his way.

Bossuet shakes his head and Cosette smiles understandingly. Her, Enjolras, Combeferre, and Courfeyrac wander on outside.

Bahorel, showing his customary lack of emotional sensitivity, flops onto his bed in disgust, “I hate drama.”

Feuilly scowls at him and says, “Emote better, freak,” then worms his way between Bahorel’s legs to find a place to sit. (My shins, Feuilly!) Eponine pulls Grantaire’s pillow off his bed and settles on the floor with her back against Bahorel’s bunk.

Jehan says, “Grantaire, tell a story,” and curls up on the bed above Bahorel’s head in a way that can’t possibly be comfortable.

Grantaire sits down next to Bossuet, because if Enjolras were unconscious or taken by Invigilators for ominous, unknown reasons, the very least he would want is a hug. More realistically, a blow torch so he could just burn everything in the whole world down but a hug wouldn’t be unwelcome. He doesn’t know Bossuet’s feelings re: contact with strangers, though, so he makes do with leaning in so their arms are touching. Bossuet leans back helplessly.


So our man Odysseus is still trying to get home from the war, which, honestly, I would have just given up by this point, but I guess the moral here is, if you give up, Western canon doesn’t happen, make of that what you will. Anyway, he’s already chilled with the Cyclops – that’s the one-eyed thing that you like, Rel – and a lot of his friends got eaten, which was sad, but also, you wander into a Cyclops cave, yanno? You take your chances. Now Poseidon is pissed off with him because oops! Cylops was his son. Talk about bad luck. Anyway he destroys all the ships except the one Odysseus is sailing in. Which, good aiming, Poseidon, ten out of fucking ten. And then so they’re on this wine dark sea, which is interesting because, like, was the sea purple in Greek times? Was wine blue? Was Odysseus colour blind? Literally no one knows. And then they found an island. Let's all place our bets about the nature of this island. Is it a delightful haven of flowers and food and pretty ladies and purring, fluffy kittens? Odysseus thought so. Unfortunately for him, it was actually an island where a witch turned everyone into pigs. But it’s nice that Odysseus is still optimistic about these things, right?


Grantaire rambles about the Iliad, interjecting and backtracking, adding commentary and sound effects. Musichetta’s eyes open a few hours later but she stays still, tears drizzling down her cheeks, and listens to Grantaire recite myth after myth.

Joly doesn’t return until the next day and when he does, he can’t walk.

&

Joly is given a wheelchair that he refuses to use. Instead, Bossuet and Musichetta give him piggybacks everywhere. Grantaire is half convinced Joly’s insisting on it just to keep them busy, because Bossuet and Musichetta have paled and thinned since they arrived, dark shadows pooling under their eyes. Joly actually looks better than Grantaire has ever seen him.

“Stop fretting love,” Grantaire hears him say to Bossuet. “They’ve already done the worst they could possibly do. This is what we were afraid of, wasn’t it? Well they’ve done it now. See, it’s not as bad as we thought… Well, maybe for your back,” he laughs and it’s a strange, ringing thing to hear in the flatness of the dorm. “Really, Sweets, it’s all going to be alright.”

Musichetta is folded at the bottom of the bed, head in her arms, “They can always do worse,” she says blankly. Her arm is stained a horrible blackish-blue colour from the needle.

“That is not the spirit, Chetta,” Joly says disapprovingly.

“If they take you again I don’t know what I’ll do,” Musichetta says seriously. “I think I’ll go mad, I can’t stand it Joly.”

“I know Chetta,” Joly says with a sigh. “But there’s nothing we can do about it, is there? Come up here and give me a hug, I seem to have recently lost the use of my lower body.”

Musichetta lets out a smothered sob and flings her skinny body over Joly’s. He runs his finger down the individual strands of her braids, plays with the ends of her hair.

“I can’t,” she says into Joly’s knees. “I can’t, I can’t, I won’t.” Abruptly she switches to stilted Flockish, “We have to leave. We have to get out.”

Joly’s brow crumples, “I can’t, Chetta, I can’t walk, how am I supposed to run away?” Grantaire is quietly impressed at Joly’s grasp of complicated sentence structure and a small huff from where he knows Eponine is, indicates that she is too.

Enjolras, of course, has other things on his mind, “You could fly.”

Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet look up sharply. Grantaire, conversely, flops down onto Jehan’s bed, next to where Feuilly is sprawled, and groans into the pillow.

Musichetta stares Enjolras down with red-rimmed eyes. “How?”

“We have some ideas,” says Enjolras, nodding back to Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Cosette. They’ve been doing their pow-wow thing on the floor by the window. “We’ve been thinking about this for a long time. No plan is guaranteed, obviously. In fact, most of them have very low chances of success-”

“They have no chances of success,” mutters Grantaire into the pillow, only to be summarily ignored.

 “-What we’ve lacked, all this time,” continues Enjolras. “Is a sense of urgency. Humans will always avoid short term pain in favour of long term detriment. It’s basic behavioural psychology. Try and escape, get punished. Try it enough times and eventually the threat of pain gets too much, you stop trying. But in this case, the short term repercussions of staying are direr than that of escape. Joly could lose his arms. The Invigilator in charge of his experiment might not stop until he’s dead.”

“They haven’t killed anyone yet,” says Eponine, because she’s Grantaire’s forever girl.

“Not yet,” Enjolras concedes. “But what’s the point of living in a cage? Where is the life in having your body taken away from you piece by piece, where is the life in Grantaire’s wings or Jehan not being able to see?”

Grantaire flips onto his back and sits up, mock outrage on his face, “Thank you, sunshine, for summarising to the group how little you think my life is worth.”

“Not your life,” Enjolras argues. “All our lives. This isn’t living!”

“Maybe my standards for living are lower than yours,” Grantaire muses. “I literally need like, food and water. And air. I arguably have six limbs, losing a few didn’t make my life a worthless hole of nothing. It’s still a life. I can break out the French dictionary if you need me to.” Next to him he feels Jehan suppress a laugh, the humour of which is easily diffused by the could have fooled me look Enjolras gives him. 

“This is a stupid argument,” Courfeyrac says, and Combeferre, right on his tail says,

“Without delving too deeply into the nature of life, it’s inarguable that our quality of life would be vastly improved by freedom from the Institute.”

“Would it though?” Feuilly says, “Like ‘Taire says, we only need water and food and whatnot. Who says we’ll have that if we get out?”

Grantaire points at him, “Yes, important, sustainable life,”

“Better to live a day as a lion than one hundred years as a sheep,” says Courfeyrac and Grantaire boggles at him.

“Did you just misquote an Italian fascist at me, Courf? The man’s last words were ‘shoot me in the chest’, Jesus weeping Christ, let’s not pay too close attention to his inspirational proverbs!”

Bahorel, Feuilly, Jehan and Eponine all howl with laughter as Courfeyrac digs out the book on quotes he no doubt acquired this sparkling gem of wisdom from. “Benito Mussolini,” he allows sheepishly, “Well who knew he was a fascist? Not everyone’s read the whole library, ‘Taire.”

Enjolras is ignoring them all with profound disdain and Grantaire isn’t sure how much of the rabble Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta are catching. They’re looking at each other with wary hope. “What he said,” Musichetta asks of Enjolras, nodding at Grantaire, “About there being no chance. Is it true?”

“His name is Grantaire,” Enjolras says reprovingly and Jehan laughs into Grantaire’s shoulder only to receive a flashed scowl he is either unaware of or, more likely, ignores. “And no, there’s no such thing as no chance.”

“Opinion,” pronounces Grantaire. “Similar to a belief in unicorns or benign and just monotheistic gods. Not necessarily fact.”

“Do you want me to prelude every statement with, in my opinion?” Enjolras demands, “It’s coming out of my mouth isn’t it? That’s generally considered to be shorthand for in my opinion, it’s what most people assume!”

“You say things very assuredly, sunshine, I’m providing a post note for the as-yet unenlightened.”

Enjolras tries to argue with that and Combeferre speaks over him, “To be fair, Grantaire, saying that there’s no such thing as a certainty-”

“-Apart from being excellent irony-” Courfeyrac cuts in.

“-Is about as close to certainty as we are likely to reach. Are you honestly saying there’s absolutely no chance of us ever leaving the institute?” Combeferre continues, looking a little fearful of the answer.

“I didn’t say anything like that!” Grantaire exclaims, “Jehan did I say anything like that?”

“You did not,” Jehan confirms.

“See,” Grantaire says, “I just said that it was Enjolras’s opinion. I didn’t say that it wasn’t also mine.”

“So… You do think we’ll get out?” asks Cosette, looking bemused.

Bahorel mutters to Feuilly, Eponine and Jehan, sotto voice, “It’s amazing to me that they still try and have debates with him.”

“It’s like trying to catch one of those tiny bouncy balls,” Jehan says philosophically, to collected snorts.

“Enough,” Enjolras snaps, and everyone quietens. “This isn’t a joke. Joly lost his legs last week. He can’t walk. We only have one option left: we have to get out of here. Even if it kills us.”

Enjolras is staring at Grantaire the whole time, big beautiful eyes filled with fire that Grantaire doesn’t ever think he’ll be able to say no to. He sighs quietly and says with near seriousness, “Sure, fine, whatever. Just call me Cassandra.” He folds back to the bed, tuning them out.

Distantly he hears Eponine say, “It’d be more entertaining if he could maintain eye contact with his debating partner without folding.”

Grantaire gives her the middle finger without opening his eyes.

&

The plan is so stupid it makes Grantaire angry which is a novel and not entirely pleasant experience. They’ve stopped doing whatever the fuck to Joly, and it’s not like there’s any way he could lose more function in his legs. This plan is asking for more trouble, and it puts everyone else in danger. But he’s outvoted along with Eponine, Joly, Feuilly and Combeferre. He tries not to be too annoyed by the fact that Enjolras looks significantly more disconcerted by Combeferre’s nay than his own.

At 2pm there is series of echoing booms from the medical bay. This, Grantaire knows, is the noise of Bahorel, Feuilly and Gavroche causing as much chaos as is physically possible within the confines of one small hospital bay. Last Grantaire heard, they’d been talking about defibrillators with the kind of glee that spelled possible accidental homicide for any Invigilators that happened to get in the way.

The plan is for them all to split up and investigate possible ways out of the Institute. Grantaire thinks seriously about wandering down to the staff kitchens and chowing down on as much high fructose corn syrup as he can get his hands on, but Enjolras’s earnest, crestfallen face is a constant annoyance in the back of his head. Grantaire is aware that the Invigilators will react to today’s mutiny with a drastic display of force, particularly towards Feuilly, Bahorel and Gavroche, and if he can avoid breaking Enjolras’s heart just a bit more, it’s probably worth it. Even if he has to, like, try.

He walks past three running Invigilators, including the chief of security, and muses on where in the Institute he hasn’t fully explored before. Then he stops dead, looks back at the running staff members, and breaks into a run.

The administration area is deserted Marie-Celeste-style, computers left unlocked, half-drunk coffees leaving circle-stains on the desks, and Grantaire is fucking gleeful. He picks the head of security’s desk—because if Feuilly and Bahorel have taught him anything, it’s go big or go home—and settles into the plush office chair.

Grantaire has used the computer in the library maybe four times in his life; it’s disconnected from even the intranet and the most useful programmes on it are paint and solitaire. So it takes him a while to work out how to navigate the operating system. Even the dash, square, cross system at the top right of every window takes him a while to work out. Eventually he orients himself enough to find a file directory. He knows his own Institute ID code so he types that into the search bar. A whole database of information about Grantaire scrolls onto the screen, headed by the name of the scientist in charge of his genetic coding and artificial insemination, one Ruben Grantaire.

Grantaire reads through his own file, then minimises it and uses the linked series of ID numbers at the bottom to open the rest of the flock’s profiles. He spins through Enjolras’s, then Combeferre’s, then Courfeyrac’s. When he reaches Cosette’s, he freezes like an idiot on a gorgon island. 

#024-06-001

Head Researcher: Marie Cosette

Birth Name of Subject: Euphrasie Fauchelevent

Egg Donor: Fantine Fauchelevent, dec.

Sperm Donor: Felix Tholomyès, dec.

PINNED ALERT:

Mlle. Fantine Fauchelevent was dispatched after foetal donation with minimal difficulty as per the Waterloo Institute directive. When selected for this programme, Fauchelevent fulfilled the criteria necessary for donorship. Namely, she was without familial or community ties, living in monthly rented accommodation, and without a steady employer. Evidently, these are features that are favourable to the Waterloo Institute, as it allows for straightforward termination of the donor after use. Unfortunately, Fauchevelent had not disclosed her true work status to us, and in actuality she was an off-the-books employee of a M. Madeline, the reputed business mogul, entrepreneur and CEO of Fabre Industries. This was not something discovered during the initial investigation, nor was it something suggested by Mlle Fauchevelent’s credit history or financial status. After the foetal harvesting of subject #024-006-001 and termination of Mlle Fauchelevent, M. Madeline reached out to several of the Waterloo Institute’s shell corporations, querying the subject of Fauchevelent’s disappearance. Over the years he has initiated several investigations and prompted several of his associates in the business, political and print industries to further inquire into the existence of the Waterloo Institute. It is believed that Mlle Fauchevelent breached her disclosure agreement to M. Madeline prior to her admission to the Institute’s secure unit. This is a issue that any subsequent researcher’s in charge of #024-006-001’s case should bear in mind, as it requires careful handling.

More detailed reports of M. Madeline’s correspondence with the Institute’s various shell companies and his known inquiries into the subject are detailed in document [#024-006-001/55].

Sincerely,

Marie Cosette.

Grantaire sits in the spinny desk chair, nose nearly touching the desk monitor. His right hand is clenched, ice-cold on the computer mouse . He doesn’t think he’s breathed in the last minute. He clicks on the link and scans down the documents, finding the details he needs. Steadily, he reaches out for the mouse and moves the tiny arrow to the web browser. Google comes up as the homepage so he navigates to the “Gmail” link on the top right and clicks. He sets up an account, filling in a form with the only accurate information being his newly-discovered date of birth. As it turns out, he turned twelve last month. 

First Name: No

Second Name: body

Username: grandR

Password: EnjolrasIsAnIdiot

He gets a kick out of the Welcome, Nobody banner that comes up and then clicks continue to mail.

There are already three emails in the inbox from the Gmail Team, whoever they are, which he ignores. Instead he clicks on “compose” and begins writing an email.

It starts,

To: [email protected]

Subject: Urgent and Confidential re: Fantine Fauchevelent & Her Daughter Euphrasie

Grataire becomes aware of people filtering back into the office: evidently the immediate panic initiated by Bahorel, Feuilly and Gavroche has subsided somewhat. Thankfully, they don’t seem to become aware of him. Their eyes slide off him and onto their neighbours, or their cold coffee, or how much work they have left to do before home time.

He keeps working, sending the email to Madeline and to his secretary, for backup. Then he finds and compresses the files for all thirteen of the flock and sends them, barely daring to hope that they’ll find their desired recipient, that they’ll find someone who can help. 

It’s getting later, the sun has set behind the office blinds, and he’s starting to hear people saying his ID number in phones nearby. He guesses he’s the last one to be caught.

Phillips is not going to pleased.

Before he leaves, he follows the last bursts of optimism to an online store, where he makes an account and several purchases available for pay on delivery. It won’t work, he tells himself, it really really won’t work. It’s just for fun.

It might work.

&

Courfeyrac once tried to explain to Grantaire what he looked like to other people. “It’s not that you’re invisible. There’s just something about you that makes my brain not want to pay attention.” Grantaire has come to understand that he is the human equivalent of keys on your desk or glasses on your head. People just… Miss him. Some people are less sensitive to the effect than others; Enjolras, of course, is completely immune. But Phillips doesn’t seem bothered by his semi-ephemeral existence either.

Grantaire doesn’t know how to hide his footprints on a computer. Could they see everything he had done? He didn’t know. On his way out of the office he finds a tiny novelty magnet attached to the staff fridge and doubles back. He is swiping it back and forwards across the hard-drive when Phillips lays a heavy, dangerous hand on his shoulder.

He is, for all intents and purposes, thrown into the dorm. Twelve pairs of eyes look up at him with varying degrees of alarm and relief. Enjolras grabs him by the arms and hisses, “Where have you been?”

At which point all the long halogen lights in the dorm flare to an excruciatingly bright white and pop out, one by one.

“I’m so glad they’re hitting us where it hurts,” says Feuilly drily.

“Oh no, not the light fixtures!” Bahorel gasps, clutching his hand to his chest.

Grantaire is still looking up at the ceiling, eyes narrowed, when Enjolras gives him a little shake.

”Why were you gone so long?” he asks desperately.

“Time is variable continuum,” Grantaire says musingly, aware that literally every ear in the institute is on this room right now. Now would not be a good time for one of the Invigilator’s to spontaneously develop an understanding of Flockish. “Literally, it’s different in one place from another. How weird is physics, are all physicists just mad or do you actually get to a level of cognitive understanding where time being a variable quantity actually makes sense to your brain. Cause let me tell you, I read all one and a half books they have on astrophysics and I still don’t get it.”

Enjolras closes his eyes as if he is in deep pain, opens his mouth, closes it again, then pulls Grantaire into a hug so tight his airway is in real and pressing danger from Enjolras’s shoulder. He shifts and manages to coordinate a controlled two-person fall onto the nearest bed. “He’ll probably be like this for a while,” he says to a baffled Joly, Musichetta and Bossuet. “Mind if we use the bed?”

“By all means,” says Joly, natural politeness covering his confusion at Enjolras and Grantaire’s abrupt 360 from arguing to intense cuddling.

One of the three must look around for understanding because Courfeyrac says, “I’d like to say that you’ll understand with time but…”

“Nah man, they’re just complete freaks,” Bahorel finishes. “Don’t look too hard at crazy.”

“I can hear you,” Grantaire says, his words muffled by Enjolras’s enthusiastic hair.

“We don’t care,” Eponine informs him.

&7


Grantaire is once again in his favourite room, slouched in his chair, staring at a metal desk he is brutally familiar with. To say Phillips is unhappy with him would be an understatement on par with saying that Enjolras is by nature determined.

“What did you do?” he asks for possibly the one hundred millionth time, Grantaire has by this point lost count.

“I couldn’t work out how to use it, I played solitaire,” Grantaire drones faithfully. The lie had had a ring of truth the first time round—Grantaire really might just be that lazy—but after the fiftieth repetition it had started to sound a bit forced.

“I don’t believe you,” Phillips says, “You didn’t sit in front of that computer for five hours and play solitaire. You solve and grow bored of military grade puzzles on a regular basis, don’t you dare lie to me, I know you better than you know yourself. What. Did. You. Do.”

“I couldn’t work out how to use it, I played solitaire.”

“You IQ is currently testing in the 150s, Grantaire, are you honestly trying to tell me that you couldn’t work out how to move a mouse?” Phillips is spitting, Grantaire notes with interest. He allows himself a quiet smile at that.

“I couldn’t work out how-”

Phillips slams around the table and has a fist in Grantaire’s curls before the back two legs of his chair hit the ground. “Say it again,” he hisses into Grantaire’s ear, “Say it again and I promise you that Enjolras will never see sunlight again.”

Grantaire’s fingers shake as he grips his knees, and stays silent. He spent most of his earliest memorable years playing and fighting with the razers, but Phillips is the predator he reacts to. Phillips is the one who gives him the sensation of spiders crawling over his feathers.

“Answer. Me.” Phillips grits out. His breath is warm on his neck and smells like peppermint.

Grantaire finds himself growing slightly indignant on behalf of Imaginary, Truthful Grantaire. What if he was actually telling the truth? What kind of fucked up Catch 22 was that? He rides that illogic train right out of the station.

“What do you want me to say?” Grantaire demands. “You want me to say I what, phoned the police? Can you even phone on a computer? And wouldn’t they be here by now if I had? You think I’ve come up with some kind of master plan? Seriously? You say you know me, okay. Have I run away? Have I ever given anyone any trouble? I could leave any time I want. I could literally walk out his door right now and not one of your guards would see me. But I won’t, because Enjolras can’t exist in a room without being the centre of it, and I know that’s not just me. So he engineers this big escape attempt because you spooked them all with Joly, and I wander about and I find a computer and I play with puzzles on it. What do you want from me? I like puzzles!”

Someone sticks their head in the door and motions for Phillips to go out. The door is left ajar and he hears a sharp muttered discussion on the other side. Phillips says, “No,” adamantly at one point.
Grantaire hears the other Invigilator say, in fragments, “Least useful from a testing stand point,” and, “already experienced trauma.”

Grantaire is starting to get a horrible, heavy, sinking sensation.

The two of them enter the room together and Phillips looks at Grantaire with something like pity. His arms are pinned across his stomach and his brow is heavy.

“Follow me please,” chirps the other Invigilator, and Grantaire follows shakily. At least whatever they’re going to do to him, they’re not planning on doing to Enjolras. Enjolras hasn’t already experienced trauma. Enjolras is useful.

They stick him in one of the Invigilator booths, looking into an examination room through what he knows appears to be a mirror from the other side. Phillips sits behind him, exuding a kind of spidery menace.

And they bring Joly in.

Grantaire’s sure he stops breathing. His pulse sounds thundering in his ears and his eyes blur with dark spotty shadows.

“Please don’t,” he’s saying, he’s looking at Phillips, when did he get on his knees. “Please. Please don’t.”

Phillips just looks at him impassively, like stone, and Grantaire wants to obliterate every contour and pore of his face.

“What did you do on the computer?” asks one of the Invigilators calmly, as if there isn’t a child screaming three feet away, separated only by mirrored glass.

 Grantaire thinks they’ve given him something, psychotropic somethings, neuropathic somethings, because Joly isn’t even there behind the eyes any more, he’s just a writhing mass of terror and pain and fight or flight, except he can’t do either. There is sharp, corrosive pain in Grantaire’s lungs and throat and behind his eyes. He shakes his head and keeps shaking it, “Nothing, nothing, nothing.”

“This is your fault,” says the Invigilator, “Tell us and we’ll stop.”

“It’s not,” Grantaire gasps, clawing at his own face, at his hair, “It’s not, I didn’t do anything. I swear to God, I swear to God. Please, please stop.”

They. Don’t. Stop.

Grantaire is pressed to the window, fingernails pressed white-tight into the glass, and his whole body is a whirl of horror and guilt and rage and he can’t take his eyes off of Joly’s huge white-rimmed ones.

Joly is mouthing incoherently, silent, choking sobs escaping from his lips and Grantaire can’t hold the trembling, flashing awfulness inside himself any more. “STOP IT!” he screams and all the lights in the building go out in breathless, squeezing silence. Everything goes quiet, like diving under water. Grantaire looks around and Phillips and the other Invigilator are groping, disoriented, as if through a thick fog. They’ve stopped hurting Joly, he’s curled into a ball on the floor, pulled his legs in tight against his chest with white-clenched hands. Grantaire can see his own reflection in the dark glass, over Joly’s figure like some kind of ghostly monster. He looks wild, hair standing straight up, eyes a solid shiny black. He can feel sweat trickling down the curve of his spine. A shaky breathlessness.

“Experiment terminated,” says Phillips coolly to the shaken Invigilator. “Get them back to the dorms. Now.”

&

“We are all of us machines, dearest sunshine, and in being so programmed, so determined from birth, so controlled, we are by our very definition non-free beings. We’re all Judas Iscariot, we’re all just fulfilling a function of a greater will, and whether that will is God or some scientist who didn’t have the moral compass to get into medical school is irrelevant! Everything has its own causality and not one of those causalities can be given to you, so-”

“No, but you’re wrong!” Enjolras shouts, “Everyone is morally responsible for their own actions, everyone has a choice to make-”

“And how, exactly, do you know that this is your choice, after all-”

“I thought we were talking about the new dessert puddings,” whispers Cosette, eyes wide.

“We were definitely talking about the dessert puddings,” says Feuilly, face smushed against the table, voice the verbal embodiment of weariness.

Eponine’s eyes are glazed and her face is nearly melting off her hand, “Really? I could have sworn that conversation happened years ago when we were all still young and had a will to live.”

Bahorel nods in dazed agreement as Grantaire says, with his most annoying smile, “Sunshine, you have been engineered right up to this moment to hate the taste of jelly mixed with pineapple chunks, by not liking it you are, in fact, playing the part that has been written for you.”

Jehan’s mouth is a bit slack with incredulity when he says, “Grantaire, what-”

Enjolras runs right over him with, “That’s absolutely ridiculous, by that logic we couldn’t have any likes or dislikes and-”

“You’re not understanding me at all, sunshine, I’m not denying the presence of preferences, I’m saying that you don’t have any free will over them.” 

Combeferre groans loudly into his palms.

 The vein in Enjolras’s temple seems to be throbbing, “You’re just wrong-”

“And you know,” continues Grantaire, “For someone who is so insistent on understanding his tyrannical overlords, you’re being quite short-sighted about the whole thing. They are the ones responsible for your visceral dislike of gelatinous food textures. Tear them down from their golden thrones, Enjolras!”

“THAT’S SO STUPID, GRANTAIRE!” Enjolras shouts, and all three halogen lights above them flare brightly. Out of the corner of his eye, Grantaire sees a small commotion in the kitchens, involving a misbehaving stove.

Grantaire grins, “You know what? You’re absolutely right, Enjolras, your desert preferences are absolutely of your own devising, you are a magical snowflake of chance and self-determination.”

Enjolras’s mouth is open to shout more arguments into the sink-pool of Grantaire’s logic when that sentence catches up with him. He forgets to close it and just stares at Grantaire in utter bafflement.

“Is he brain damaged?” Musichetta asks Eponine seriously.

“It’s a viable theory,” she replies, eyes narrowed on Grantaire, who winks at her.

&

“What in the name of everything holy are you trying to do to Enjolras?” asks Jehan, voice pitched slightly high.

“Shhhh,” hisses Feuilly, looking completely horrified. “Jehan don’t engage him in conversation, he might start talking again.”

“Me, talking?” asks Grantaire looking wide eyed at Feuilly.

Feuilly makes the sign of the cross with his fingers, “Bahorel…” he says with trepidation.

“If you start talking about determinimison or what the fuck ever, I swear Grantaire, I’m going to put all of these leaves into your mouth,” says Bahorel seriously.

“All of them?” asks Grantaire.

“Every single one,” Bahorel says, without the slightest hint of amusement.

“Wouldn’t it be more efficient to just kill him?” asks Eponine. “Then he wouldn’t ever be able to talk.”

“How to solve a problem, the Eponine way,” says Grantaire sagely.

“It’s a sustainable solution” she says grimly.

“Your efficiency is one of the things I admire most about you,” Grantaire tells her seriously.

“Seriously though,” says Jehan, not to be deterred. “What’s the deal?”

“I’m trying to get Enjolras to light things on fire with his mind,” says Grantaire.

The silence that follows is the judging kind.

It’s Feuilly who takes the bait, “You’re what?”

“It’s relaxing,” says Grantaire.

“To you and literally no one else in the world,” says Bahorel.

“You’re all too sensitive,” says Grantaire, “If Enjolras didn’t have someone to argue with he’d go crazy.”

“Going, going,” mutters Feuilly.

“Gone,” finishes Bahorel.

Jehan puts a crown of leaves on Feuilly’s head, the brown and green-gold tangling with his red waves.

 “Where’s my laurel wreath, Jehan?” asks Grantaire.

“You don’t get one,” says Jehan matter-of-factly. “Don’t be mean to Enjolras.”

&

Grantaire is hauled in again for questioning.

“Who did you contact?” they demand. “What did you say to them?”

“Nothing, nothing, no one,” says Grantaire in what feels like an invisible voice.

Eventually one of them blurts out in a tide of frustration, “We know it was Madeline, what did you say?”

Grantaire doesn’t know what reaction he has to that, but he knows he has one. Their expressions change.

“What did you say to him?” they ask.

“Nothing,” says Grantaire, but now his lips are pressed together to swallow the laugh that he can feel bubbling up from inside, because they’re panicked and it’s the best thing he’s ever seen. He holds his elbows and jiggles his knee and they don’t know what he said but they know who he said it to because, because, Madeline got his message? Because Madeline knows?

He says nothing over and over again, but they’re looking at him with open suspicion and they’re tracking his movements in a way that most people don’t normally manage.

Courfeyrac does a double-take when he sees him that evening, “You’re looking particularly observable today, Grantaire, oh my god you have freckles, Enjolras why didn’t you tell us Grantaire has freckles?”

“He has seventeen,” says Enjolras absently, not looking away from his conversation with Combeferre.

Grantaire makes a face at the back of Enjolras’s creepy head whilst simultaneously trying to duck around Courfeyrac’s flailing hands. Eventually he gives in and submits to: “Three, fourish, five, ‘Taire stop moving.”

Musichetta is hunched woodenly on her bunk, eyes fixed on the sleeping forms of Bossuet and Joly. Joly hasn’t stopped trembling since they brought him back from the other side of the mirror. Grantaire can’t bring himself to look, but the constant quiver is a perceptible vibration just outside of his field of vision nonetheless. Cosette has her skinny pale arms wrapped around Musichetta like a quiet, determined vice and is rocking gently. Musichetta’s only allowance to this is to tip her head onto Cosette’s shoulder.

&

Grantaire takes a wander to the flying grounds on the other side of the Institute, the ones beside the razer’s enclosure. On both sides, the overhead mesh is high enough to allow them a reasonable amount of air space to fly in, but they rarely use this one due to its proximity to their wolfy genetic siblings.

He loiters for maybe thirty seconds before Montparnasse appears on the other side of the wire fence, eyes suspicious.

Grantaire doesn’t say anything, just raises an eyebrow and then, slowly and deliberately, winks. Montparnasse stares at him for a moment, tilting his head to the side. Then he grins, and his expression is as close to the meaning of feral as Grantaire could imagine.

&

“We’re leaving,” says Musichetta. Her voice wavers dangerously before keeling off pitch. She clears her throat but doesn’t look down. Bossuet is at her elbow, determination in his jaw. Joly is on the bed behind them, looking at his knees. His clasped hands are visibly trembling.

“How?” Enjolras asks, glancing from one to the other. To his credit, he isn’t using the same intonation Grantaire’s using in his head. Grantaire is lying face down on Jehan’s bunk; Jehan is twisting his wild hair into tiny curly plaits.

Musichetta shakes her head, “It doesn’t matter. I don’t care how many times we have to try. I don’t care if I get killed. We’re leaving, we have to.”

Enjolras nods his head, “Then we’ll come with you.”

It takes a second.

Then Courfeyrac, who’s half asleep and has his head nestled on Combeferre’s belly says, “Wait. What?” (Simultaneously Bahorel grunts, “Huh?” from the tangle of his and Feuilly’s limbs and Grantaire yelps, “Democracy!” and sits up so abruptly he nearly loses half his head of hair. Jehan gives him a dry look that he ignores.)

Enjolras looks sheepish for maybe half a second before he tries to justify himself, “The more of us try to escape, the higher the chances that one of us will manage it.”

“That’s not how you statistic, sunshine,” says Grantaire, probably more snarkily than is, strictly speaking, productive, “Thirteen times zero is still zero.”

“If it were up to you, we’d rot here forever,” Enjolras fires back.

“You’re right,” says Grantaire. “I love torture and bodily mutilation. Seriously, Enj, my wings look so fab right now.”

Enjolras opens his mouth to argue back and Combeferre claps one of his big, gentle hands down onto Enjolras’s shoulder. “No one wants to stay here,” he says, giving Enjolras a reproving look, “And this isn’t something any one of us can decide on behalf of the others. We all have to come to a decision ourselves.”

“No, but-” Enjolras begins, and Combeferre raises an eyebrow at him. Enjolras’s voice shrinks to a fifth of its normal size, “I can’t go if Grantaire doesn’t,” he finishes beseechingly.

“Then talk to Grantaire,” says Courfeyrac incredulously.

“Privately,” clarifies Combeferre.

Eponine and Cosette are currently embroiled in what counts as an argument between them. Cosette is mumbling in her own dulcet, persuasive way and Eponine is snapping back and trying not to listen too closely.

Bahorel and Feuilly are muttering together and Bahorel is frowning.

Courfeyrac and Combeferre sit beside each other on a bed and survey the room. Grantaire sometimes wonders what they see.

“Grantaire,” says Enjolras, standing over him.

Grantaire looks up at him from under his eyebrows and says back evenly, “Sunshine.”

A ripple of annoyance passes over Enjolras’s face. He’s much less tolerant of Grantaire’s teasing, of late, which might have something to do with how hard Grantaire’s been pushing him. But it’s for the greater good: Enjolras started a small fire in the library the other day. He has none of Grantaire’s ability to manipulate or direct—he doesn’t even seem to be aware that he’s doing it. But, baby steps. Grantaire had tiptoed down to the storage room the other day, and found something he hadn’t dared hope for. This, though. This new attempt at escape could ruin everything.

Right impulse, wrong time, terrible plan.

He doesn’t dare say anything about the right plan, though. He’s read about the Enigma. He’s not counting on those scientists not being able to pick up on their mangled French dialect.

“We need to leave,” Enjolras says. “Now’s as good a time as ever.”

“Now is not a good time, Enjolras. We don’t even have a plan.”

“We can get out by the roofs.”

“That’s not a plan, Enjolras, that’s a direction. You aren’t selling me on this with the word vertically.”

“Why won’t you at least try?” asks Enjolras desperately. “All I’m asking is that you try, that you act half as keen to get out of this place as the rest of us.”

“Enjolras, we live in an endless hellscape of misery, of course I want to get out of here. But our lives are more important. You can’t be free when you’re dead.”

“I’d rather be dead than spend any longer in this place,” Enjolras says seriously.

Grantaire scoffs at the dramatics, “Of course you would, but would you rather me be dead?”

Enjolras freezes and Grantaire rails on, “Would you rather Courfeyrac and Combeferre dead, than having to live here for a while longer? This is not the worst thing in the world, Enjolras. It’s not even close. Grow up.”

Enjolras shakes his head, “No. I’m going. And. And you’re going too. You promised you wouldn’t leave me, you promised.” He doesn’t sound half as sure by the end of the sentence as he did at the start.

Grantaire grits his teeth and breathes through the complete aggravation that is Enjolras, “Can’t you just trust me? Just this once? Can’t you give me the benefit of the doubt that I’ve got a better handle on what’s going on here than you do?”

“No,” says Enjolras simply. “If you can’t prove to me that not one of us will get out, that not one of us will find their way to a better life, then no. This is too important to just trust you on.”

“As opposed to all those other times when you’ve trusted me,” Grantaire says bitterly.

“I’ve always taken your advice!” Enjolras says, voice shrill.

“Sure, sunshine, sure. How about the laundry shoot? How about that as a way out? I’m sure they won’t have thought of that.”

Enjolras’s mouth opens but no words come out. He looks stricken. Grantaire glances up and everyone’s looking at them anyway, there wasn’t much point in giving this conversation even the veneer of privacy. Everything they do is public. Everything they do is on display.

“I won’t let them do that again,” says Enjolras, tears in his eyes, suddenly, which is never what Grantaire wants.

Grantaire rolls his eyes but softens his voice, “Enj. You don’t have any power here. You are a victim, isn’t it easier to come to terms with that, than to keep losing the same battle over and over again? You can’t do anything.”

“I can get us out,” Enjolras says, definitively.

Just as adamantly, Grantaire says, “No, you can’t.”

There’s a moment of dull silence and then Eponine says, “Then we’ll vote. Majority rules.”

“That’s not fair,” Combeferre says. “Then people will be taking a risk they aren’t willing to take.”

“Well apparently none of us can do anything alone,” says Feuilly, with just a touch of bitterness. Bahorel eyes him warily. “So it’s the only thing that makes sense, right? If the vote’s a no, then we leave it for now, if it’s not, hey we probably all end up in serious shit but at least it’s a democratic process right?”

“All in favour of trying to get out tonight,” says Enjolras. His eyes don’t leave Grantaire as he puts his hand up, so it’s up to Combeferre to count the yays: Enjolras, Combeferre, Courfeyrac. Musichetta and Bossuet. Bahorel. Gavroche, in spite of both his sisters, has his hand higher in the air than anyone. Grantaire’s surprised that Jehan hasn’t voted yes, he has a feeling that it might have something to do with him. Joly doesn’t look happy about the situation either.

Grantaire turns back to Enjolras and turns up the corner of his mouth in a tired smile, “The yays have it, sunshine. Your plan better be a good one.”

&

The plan is terrible.

They’ll get headed off by the razers before they even get to the roof.

Once they get to the roof they won’t be able to get far enough fast enough without at least one of them getting shot.

None of them can outfly a helicopter; the Institute is equipped with four.

And not one of them, when it gets right down to it, has the kind of survivor’s instinct required to save themselves in spite of everyone else. Musichetta might make it out with Bossuet and Joly—Grantaire has a feeling that when it gets right down to the wire, that girl knows how to prioritise. But the rest of them, they’ll fall back the second one of them goes down. They’ve clung to each other in the Institute because having each other—having a family, even one you might bicker with constantly—protected them from the worst of the Institute’s privations. But it makes them weak; Grantaire’s always known it—loving other people weakens you.

And to top the whole disaster of a plan off, Grantaire can’t even fly.

“We’ll carry you,” says Enjolras and Grantaire bites his tongue so that he doesn’t ask how Enjolras intends to carry him, fly faster than a helicopter and avoid bullets simultaneously.

If Grantaire knew that he could get even Enjolras out, the entire venture would be worth it. But Enjolras will be the first one spotted running down the corridor, the first one picked out by binoculars in the woods, the first one mown down by tranq darts or rubber bullets from a helicopter. His wings are the gold of the sun, and the strange optical illusion that Enjolras carries with him gives him less than no chance. His is not a body built for subterfuge.

But he’s doing this anyway. So Grantaire needs to manufacture a chance.

&

Grantaire slips away fifteen minutes before they make their move. It’s not difficult, he just has to wait for Enjolras to look in a different direction.

He walks fast along corridor after corridor, the echoing white giving him vertigo and nausea all at once.

He’s almost in the East wing, where the razers are held, when a buzzing alarm starts to hum through the walls and through his bones. Two guards run past him and nearly knock him over. Grantaire guesses the others have started their escape. There’s a screeching scream of metal ahead and Grantaire speeds round the corner, only to nearly collide with a wall of metal bars. They’ve come down in the middle of the corridor and Montparnasse is on the other side. His wide eyes meet Grantaire’s and his long cold fingers close around Grantaire’s wrists as Grantaire reaches out impulsively.

“Is this it?” demands Montparnasse.

“No,” says Grantaire, “Well, maybe. I don’t know. They’re trying, anyway. It’s not my plan.”

Montparnasse sags slightly, “I really wish you’d told me that before.”

“It was news to me too,” says Grantaire, “Why, what’s happened?”

“The razers are rioting,” says Montparnasse, “They won’t chase your feathered friends. They’re too busy tearing Invigilators’ throats out.”

“And that’s…”

“Nothing to do with me,” says Montparnasse briskly, “Officially.”

“Right.” Grantaire nods and pulls at the black steel separating them, “What the fuck are these?”

“New installations, I’d bet,” says Montparnasse, “After you went AWOL that one time. Even you can’t walk through walls.”

“Shit,” Grantaire hissed. “Well, you have to get out.”

“Yeah?” sneers Montparnasse. “How?”

Grantaire looks closer and sees that there’s fear there, around Montparnasse’s eyes and mouth. His stomach lurches: Montparnasse doesn’t show fear.

“Well there has to be other ways between the west and east wings,” says Grantaire, “Try the roof tiles.”

“Already did, at a different barrier on the second floor. These things are welded into the cement.”

“The bathrooms?”

“All the ceiling space has been filled. It’s blocked off.”

“What about the windows on the fourth floor, there’s a ledge outside, you could slide along.”

“You used that on one of your weird pretend-escape runs, remember? They put bars on the window.”

“The rooftops-”

“Don’t join up any more, you used that one too.”

Somewhere inside the steeples of Grantaire’s ribs, something is twisting painfully. His mind is an awful barren blank.

“I…” he says, and trails off. “Shit.”

“You can’t think of anything?” Montparnasse says, his voice climbing a register, “Are you kidding me, boy genius? Think of something.”

Grantaire shakes his head, “I am,” he says, “I’m thinking.”

“Don’t leave me here,” snaps Montparnasse and Grantaire gives him an impatient look.

“I’m thinking, Parnasse.”

But nothing’s clicking into place. Grantaire pulls the building apart in his head, turns it over, twists it sideways like a Rubik's cube. He’s staring at the white of Montparnasse’s knuckles but he can’t find an answer. A room filled with coloured squares jumps to mind and he pushes it back violently.

There’s a noise behind him, a slapping of rubber soles on the linoleum, and he twists around. It’s Gavroche, gulping air. He gives Grantaire and Montparnasse a sweeping look, visibly disregards the weirdness and says frantically, “Enjolras is in trouble, Grantaire. You gotta come quick.”

Gavroche speeds off again down the corridor and Grantaire turns slowly. There’s a ringing noise in his ears. His brain has ground to a screeching halt. He feels heavy, like he’s being tied down on the earth by more than just gravity.

“Don’t you dare,” hisses Montparnasse, “Don’t you-”

“I have to-” Grantaire starts, his shakes his head and keeps shaking it, his hands are trembling violently, “I can’t-” A soft noise escapes him then, something between a sigh and a sob.

“You can’t!” says Montparnasse frantically, “You can’t leave me here!”

“You have to let go,” says Grantaire’s mouth. His lips feel numb. His whole body feels numb. “Let go.”

“No,” snarls Montparnasse. “No. You leave me now, you leave me here and you’re a fucking monster, don’t you fucking dare, you’re my friend.” 

Grantaire’s head is still shaking. He tries to get it to halt but it feels like one of those perpetual motion machines. He’s not in control of his body right now. 

“You have to let go,” he says again.

Montparnasse grips tighter and Grantaire’s bones grind and pop and a sharp burst of pain cascades up his arm. He barely notices, just pushes the pain back and down, and Montparnasse cries out and flinches back in the same moment, cradling his own hand to his chest.

“I have to,” says Grantaire again in no more than a whisper. “I can’t.”

“No.”

Grantaire turns around and runs, and doesn’t look back.

Montparnasse’s howl chases him up the corridor, “I hope he’s dead! I hope you both die!”

&

Grantaire reaches the roof in a span of time that will forever go unmeasurable in his head. It is at once endless and the fastest he has ever moved.

He stops like he’s hit a wall when he sees Enjolras striding towards him. “There you are,” Enjolras says, sounding aggrieved. “For God’s sake, Grantaire.” He snatches Grantaire’s hand out of the air. Grantaire’s wrist spikes with futile pain.

“Gavroche-” says Grantaire, lungs on fire, throat a hoarse, metallic sting, “He said you were-”

Enjolras waves his other hand, dismissing the end of the sentence, “I lied, you disappeared, there was only one thing guaranteed to make you come fast.” Enjolras spins on his heel and opens his arms, et voila, “And look! You’re here.”

Grantaire feels like his lungs have caved in.

“You did. You. What?” he asks, his gaze is unfocused. The rest of the flock are on the roof, ranged out. The Invigilator’s are too busy dealing with rioting razers in another part of the building, because, because. Because Montparnasse prepared for this, prepared for the flock’s escape. Because he took Grantaire at his word.

The rage that swoops in to fill Grantaire’s lungs in place of oxygen is thick and cloying. Enjolras is pushing him backwards towards the edge of the roof, everyone’s in the process of taking off. There’s gunfire from the roof of the East wing. Grantaire’s blood pounds in his ears but he doesn’t know how to be this angry at Enjolras, he doesn’t know how to deal with this thumping, twitching heart beat and this clouded vision.

“No,” he mutters. Then he shouts “No!” Enjolras pushes him closer towards the edge of the roof.

Enjolras rolls his eyes, “Move, Grantaire.” The heels of Grantaire’s trainers nudge against the lip of the building.

“No!” Grantaire shouts over the thudding in his ears. “Let go of me. I do not consent.” 

Enjolras’s furious, horrified expression is the last thing Grantaire sees as the building behind them explodes in a cacophony of fireworks.

&

Grantaire’s wings howl with pain.

He drops several feet before he can beat hard enough to stay level. Muscles and tendons pull at his chest and back and neck, taught and ready to snap.

Enjolras has his arm in a vice-like grip and Feuilly’s shouting, “What the hell? What the actual fucking hell?”

“THAT was my plan!” Grantaire screams at Enjolras, because he has to scream something right now, he can’t keep this shrieking roar inside himself.

Enjolras looks at him in bewilderment. Which, alright, a building just blew up with him on it, he might not be in the most comprehending of places right now. The whole Flock is backing away towards the treeline as the entire North and East wings fall in on themselves in a rumbling groan of concrete and steel. The East wing.

Grantaire lunges out of Enjolras’s grasp, dips towards the rapidly disappearing building and is yanked back again by Enjolras and Courfeyrac. Courfeyrac looks a little singed and a lot confused.

“Let go!” Grantaire screams at them.

“Where are you going?” Enjolras shouts back, utterly unglued.

Grantaire’s eyes are blurred with tears. “There are people in there!” he screams into Enjolras’s face, “The razers are still in there!”

Enjolras and Courfeyrac boggle at him.

“Grantaire,” says Enjolras soothingly. “Grantaire, they’re not our concern. They’re…”

“They deserve a chance to escape, as much as any of us!” says Grantaire.

“They’re monsters,” says Enjolras in complete disbelief.

Grantaire recoils from him, or tries to. His wings don’t have the strength to hold him up, let alone pull away from Enjolras’s grip.

“Let go of me!” Grantaire shouts, for what seems like the thousandth time this evening.

Courfeyrac lets go, eying him warily, but Enjolras ignores him completely and continues to pull him along in their wake, towards the treeline.

“I don’t want you touching me!” Grantaire’s voice is hoarse and broken and he uses the last of his strength to wrestle out of Enjolras’s grasp. He concentrates on the beat of his wings. One, two, one, two, one, two, until he reaches the treeline where the rest of the flock are, and hits a tree branch and clings to it.

Enjolras is opening and closing his fists uselessly, eyes huge in his face, just staring at Grantaire.

“What’s happening right now?” asks Eponine, never one to shy away from the awkward question. Enjolras makes some gesture at Grantaire, who ignores him. There are fireworks still popping and whirling behind them. Jehan is looking particularly disoriented, face twisting in discomfort. The majority of his sensation is phonic and like the rest of them, his ears are probably ringing. Grantaire struggles towards him and taps his elbow. Jehan rests his head against Grantaire’s shoulder momentarily.

“So… We should go?” says Bahorel, eyes flitting from Grantaire, to Enjolras then back. “Before they work out how their guns work again?”

“Dead men can’t fire guns,” says Grantaire with all the poison of the last hour in his voice.

Bahorel looks startled but says nothing.

Combeferre says gently, “We should go anyway.”

I live at starkey.tumblr.com, feel free to leave a comment and/or come yell at me





~





So, a note on triggers:

A lot of the general triggers are inextricably intwined with the fic and difficult to individually tag for. I’ve only specifically tagged the most graphic sections that I think people would potentially want to skip. This story is one that overwhelmingly focuses on love and family, and I tried to ensure that the bad bits were 100% necessary to the plot and not gratuitous. That being said if you’re somebody who finds these themes particularly triggering I would recommend being very careful about reading this fic, taking care of yourself, and finding greener, less-angsty pastures if necessary.

General trigger warnings (for the entire fic):
- Disability generally, and specifically: paraplegia, blindness, epilepsy and seizures, and delayed speech development
- Disability as a result of punishment and experimentation
- Disability (specifically blindness) mitigated by supernatural powers - I wouldn't do this one if I were writing the fic today, but as it is, it's subverted in a later chapter. 
- Suicidal ideation and thoughts
- Depression
- Self destructive thoughts
- Panic attacks
- Death/murder (not main characters) (flagged when explicit)
- Codependecy/unhealthy relationships
- A romantic relationship in the setting of a family - Enjolras and Grantaire never think of or refer to each other as siblings, but they both come to refer to the rest of les amis as their family/siblings. I've (hopefully) managed to sidestep most of the associated weirdness from that but it's something to be aware of 

General triggers for this chapter:
- Child abuse - the main characters are children, therefore all of these warnings are relevant to them.
- Child imprisonment and experimentation—the premise of the fic and the basis of the first chapter (NOT the second)
- Torture (flagged when explicit)
- Physical abuse (flagged when explicit)
- Emotional abuse (flagged when explicit)
- Verbal abuse (flagged when explicit)
- Mutilation (of wings) (flagged)
- Non-consensual drug use (flagged)

Section specific trigger warnings (detailed with spoilers):
1. Brief (explicit) torture of Grantaire to ensure Enjolras complies with an experiment - electric shock through fingers.
2. Brief, explicit mutilation of Grantaire’s wings as punishment for trying to escape.
3. Verbal and emotional abuse from Philips to Grantaire - appears from Grantaire’s pov to be for no reason. Actually an experiment to test how Grantaire’s powers respond to his unhappiness and self-loathing.
4. Brief reference to Grantaire being made to torture people. Montparnasse kills a minor character with a gun off-screen as a test for the institute. Grantaire has a panic attack.
5. Bossuet has a seizure while flying but is caught safely.
6. Off-screen Joly becomes paraplegic. Musichetta is sedated to stop her fighting invigilators.
7. Grantaire is questioned by the invigilators who want to know who he’s contacted. They non-consensually administer Joly drugs which cause him to have an anxiety attack while Grantaire watches. Grantaire blows all the lights in the Institute out and the experiment is terminated.

So this kind of looks like I'm remaking SAW for a YA audience. I would say that this fic isn't MUCH more graphic than something like the Hunger Games. The characters are only under 13 for the first chapter and (spoiler alert) they leave the Institute and go somewhere safe.

- Detailed trigger warnings in the footnotes. This chapter is like 80:20 hijinks:angst which can only be an improvement ¯\ _(ツ)_/¯- My chapter playlist for anyone interested.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


They stay just above the tree line, spaced out in wingspans.

Sweat beads on Grantaire’s temple, down his nose and into his eyes. He can’t think past the whirling rage in his head and the pain that shoots from his shoulder blades to his wing tips. Enjolras is pulling ahead in spurts, like his wings can’t move fast enough, like he’s dragging the full weight of them all behind him. Combeferre is on Enjolras’s immediate right, steady, oriented like a compass needle. Courfeyrac is on the left, talking breathlessly, words spilling out in a way which sounds like nonsense to Grantaire.

“Do you feel that? It’s amazing, it’s like there’s invisible rails in the air, I can feel which way is north, I can feel how hot the air is, how fast it’s blowing, it’s like touching electricity.”

Somewhere, distantly, Grantaire recognises what Courfeyrac is saying. The sky’s smooth surface scatters away and Grantaire is aware of an underlying system - invisible lines, like white crayon on a blank page. On any other day he would wonder at it, delight in it, swoop down and then up to feel the tug of currents and air temperature, even with his wings howling at him. As it is, he hooks his wings into the white crayon rails and holds on grimly, teeth clenched, bile a burning presence at the back of his throat.

Jehan and Joly take the spaces immediately next to Grantaire at the very back of the formation. Every ragged breath Grantaire takes, he is aware of Jehan teasing the sound from the rushing air around them, Joly’s gentle eyes are on his wings, his clenched fists, his set face. He loosens his jaw to stop the whistling, hissing noise that’s started to come out, and ignores them both.

Their attention means that when Grantaire hits his breaking point like a wall, between one beat of his wings and the next, he only falls as far as the top branches of the trees before Joly and Jehan have their hands locked around his wrists. Grantaire’s arms stretch up over his head with a snap, he yelps, and pain tsunamis from some point between his scapula to the tips of his wings. He yanks his arms out from Joly and Jehan’s grip in a thoughtless retreat from the pain, and falls through the first canopy of trees below. He half-catches, half-collides with a thick branch about a metre down, and hunches there, the lump in his throat too big to swallow around.

“Grantaire?” Jehan’s voice calls down through the dappled green, then, quieter: “I heard him hit the branch, he isn’t far down.”

“Grantaire?!” shouts Enjolras, in a much less collected register that Jehan. His golden-haloed face is visible if Grantaire cranes his neck back. He stops doing it immediately.

“I’m fine,” calls Grantaire, his voice breaking on the second syllable.

Feuilly and Bahorel drop fast and startling through the foliage and grab hold of branches with the agility of monkeys. “On a scale of 1 to 10 that I’m fine was a solid 0,” Feuilly informs him.

“Told you all that dive-bombing practice was strategic,” says Bahorel, “We can find little miserable you in shadows now. Hoorah.”

Feuilly hangs one-handed out of his tree to give Bahorel a high-five.

“Is he dead?” Eponine’s voice drifts down.

Feuilly pulls a face and Bahorel says, “She cares really,” without much conviction.

Grantaire snorts and buries his face in his knees.

It’s decided, eventually, that they should continue on foot. The conversation is strained by pockets of Grantaire’s stony silence. He contents himself with the petty victory of climbing quickly down the tree and watching them all struggle to follow his lead, until Combeferre nearly tumbles backwards off a branch and Grantaire feels guilty enough to give them all instructions about foot placement.

“You ever notice,” muses Courfeyrac, finally on the ground, examining his armfuls of tiny scrapes, “That the first line is white, then the next one is red, then it goes all white around it?”

Everyone ignores him, except Combeferre, at his shoulder, who mumbles, “Wheal and flare response.” Combeferre got a branch to the face on his descent through the trees and now one of his eyes is a bloodshot mess, which he keeps rubbing absently.

The woods are soothing on their collective nerves, their footfalls soft on the pine-carpeted ground, the canopy of trees above a welcome shelter. There is absolute silence but for the whispering leaves and their muted voices. No shouts in the distance, no alarm bells or howls from the razers. With the clamour of the exploding Institute still ringing in their ears, it’s a welcome peace.

They walk for an amount of time that will forever go unmeasured in Grantaire’s head. Bahorel has a sleeping Gavroche on his shoulders, his tiny pudgy face is buried in Bahorel’s dark hair. Next to them is Feuilly, whose face has fallen into a blank default of exhaustion. Eponine and Cosette are holding hands, tripping over their own feet. Courfeyrac, demonstrating some kind of previously-unheard-of quantum anomaly, is not talking, just sticking close to Combeferre’s side, one fist clenched around the hem of Combeferre’s shirt. Musichetta is at the front, plunging on into the half-sun, half-gloom of the woods with a ferocity of feeling none of the rest of them have left. Bossuet, and Joly on his back, are right behind her. Jehan is walking with his eyes closed, arms stretched out to brush the rough barks of the trees, expression serene. He mumbles, “There’s so much space, it goes on forever.”

Grantaire is watching clouds of light drift across the warm forest floor. Enjolras is watching Grantaire and Grantaire is steadfastly ignoring him.

Minutes or hours later, Jehan stops dead. Courfeyrac walks flat into him, Bahorel and Feuilly stumble to an ungraceful halt, and Musichetta ploughs straight on ahead until Joly calls her back.

Jehan's fingers are splayed across his ears, lips pressed white together, eyes over-bright. “I can hear a helicopter," he says, "It’s churning up the air.”

Courfeyrac bursts into tears.

The hopelessness descends on them all like a cloud passing on the forest floor and Grantaire thinks suddenly that they all seem intolerably young. Somehow it’s not at all strange to him that their fiery determination would carry them just past the gates of the Institute and no further. Enjolras looks at Grantaire helplessly and Grantaire drags his hands down his face to dislodge the lump from his throat and chest. He is twelve years old. The world should not feel this towering and terrible. But it does, so fuck it all to hell.

Grantaire uncurls his spine, pulls himself up straight and tall, and takes a deep breath. Then he says, “Which direction, Jehan?” with a resolve that seems to come from the very bottom of him, off-white trainers grinding into the dirt, traction built out of nothing except grim, vindictive stubbornness.

Jehan points wordlessly up and forwards, in the direction they have been walking. His finger drops, slowly, with the descent of the helicopter.

Grantaire nods, and says, “Okay.” He takes a breath, “So, I’m going to go over there and find out who it is. If it’s the Institute then we go around them, if it’s someone else-”

Eponine interrupts, “Uh, no-”

as Enjolras gathers enough latent fury to spit out, “Of course you’re not-”

and Bahorel says, “Who else would it be?”

“The police,” suggests Cosette.

“Grantaire did just explode a building,” says Courfeyrac.

“Somehow,” mutters Feuilly.

“-CaBOOM,” finishes Courfeyrac throwing his hands up in an explosiony kind of way.

“We’ll all go,” says Enjolras decisively.

“Erm-” Combeferre starts, “That might not be necessarily the wisest-”

“All those in favour of not bringing the human fog-horn-” Eponine says, looking pointedly at Enjolras, causing Feuilly and Bahorel throw up their arms in unison.

“Ah-” comes Joly’s timid voice, “I hate to interrupt but-”

They turn around to look at him in unison. Joly smiles sheepishly.

“Grantaire and Musichetta are gone already.”

“Shit,” says Bahorel.

&

“How long before they notice, do you think?” asks Musichetta.

“At least ten minutes,” says Grantaire, “Debates take a lot longer when there are thirteen of you and everyone has to get their own one-liner in.”

Musichetta snorts and Grantaire decides that he really does like her. Maybe the stress of the day is making him emotional, but she’s goal-oriented and practical, features that are shockingly lacking in the rest of the flock.

They hear the helicopter within minutes, a thundering judder that gets louder as they creep towards it. They overshoot their mark and come out on the other side of the helicopter, on top of a huge ravine, overlooking a massive expanse of shrubby grass and grey-red dust. Grantaire is remind forcefully of the bobbly green cushions in the play room. Keeping the fall to their right, they edge back along the slim margin between the forest and the drop. They help each other wordlessly over fallen tree trunks and eye the sharp drop below them with a kind of wistful fascination.

“What do you think it’d be like to fly with that much space?” Musichetta says, “It’d be good, huh?”

“Yeah, if I can get my wings to work again,” Grantaire says quietly.

“You will,” Musichetta says. And then, “He shouldn’t have pushed you.”

“Nope.”

“Did you really have a plan of your own?”

“Yep.”

“Why didn’t you say anything?”

“They listen to our every word, I didn’t want to ruin our chances. I had it all worked out. No kid fatalities, someone on the outside. Now, I don’t know what we’re going to do.”

Musichetta shrugged, “We’ll do what we have to, I guess.”

“Profound,” says Grantaire, softening it with a sideways grin, because the kind of utterly deadpan sarcasm that he, Feuilly, Bahorel, Eponine and Jehan have developed for their own entertainment sometimes makes them come across as assholes.

Musichetta smiles and doesn’t say anything more because at that moment they stumble across an open clearing that cuts into the forest and faces out over the vast expanse of desert. There is a gleaming silver helicopter in the middle of the glade, its blades still spinning idly. There are two men standing beside it. One is holding a large gun. He's stocky, dark, scanning the perimeter from behind a pair of even darker sunglasses. The other is-

Grantaire lets out an undignified yelp and sprints forwards into the clearing, across the open space towards the men. He hears Musichetta swear viciously behind him, then a pause before he makes out the sound of her following, her trainers thudding on the dirt.

That’s a surprise—he thinks, absently—he would have bet cash money on her staying in the tree-line.

Out of the corner of his eye Grantaire registers a blur of movement: the rest of the flock has caught up with them, thanks to Jehan's superior navigational skills, and in an utterly bizarre twist, Enjolras is winning the race towards the Grantaire and Musichetta. Grantaire slows to appreciate the fact that Enjolras—who resents getting out of bed before noon and whose favourite sport is rousing debate—is outstripping Feuilly and Cosette, the flock's all-time sprinting champions, solely for the purposes of shouting at Grantaire. Enjolras collides with Grantaire at speed, nearly topples them both to the ground, and throws his arms around Grantaire in a half hug, half full-body-shake.

"You -” Enjolras begins.

Grantaire eyes Enjolras's sweaty, scarlet face and tries unsuccessfully to get his broken wrist out of the crush zone.

“You-” Enjolras continues, into Grantaire's neck, with even greater venom.

Feuilly and Cosette reach them next, then Bahorel wheezes to a stop with a delighted Gavroche jiggling on his shoulders shouting ‘Giddy-up, Rel.”

Bahorel scowls, “I totally would have won if I wasn’t playing Pegasus.”

"Hey, Greek reference!" says Grantaire.

The others catch up and slow to a stop, Bossuet last with Joly wrapped around his back like a koala bear.

They’re still a good 200 metres away from the helicopter, but the two men have walked out to meet them half way. To Grantaire's relief, the threatening one has holstered his gun. They stop an easy distance away - unthreatening, safe.

“Hello,” says the other man, eyes bright like stars. “Now. Which one of you would be Grantaire?” 

&

The fact that the flock wordlessly climbs on board an—objectively very threatening—strangers’ helicopter at the prompting of nothing but a muffled grunt from Grantaire would probably horrify him if he hadn’t just reached the very end of his capacity for thought and movement.

They all cram into the fancy leather seats, mostly on top of each other. Grantaire settles between (and mostly underneath) Cosette and Enjolras. The air is dark and tingly on his face, his lips are strangely numb and his wings are an agonised mess of pain that he’s stopped trying to look too closely at. He drops his head forwards and loses track of time for a moment or five. He wakes up to Enjolras shaking him, and a ringing silence in the helicopter. Cosette’s big eyes are so filled with worry she looks like a cartoon character.

Grantaire clears his throat, “Uh. Sorry?”

“What’s wrong with you?” demands Enjolras.

Grantaire gives him a dead stare and says slowly, “My wings hurt.”

“May we take a look?” Madeline is standing in the doorway to the cockpit, his whole face gentle and leathery - brown eyes, brown hair, smile creases. The other man is standing just behind him. He has dark features, black swept-back hair, a hooked nose and startlingly grey-blue eyes that are examining all of them with open hostility.

“No,” says Enjolras shortly.

as Courfeyrac says simultaneously, “Excuse me but who are you? And how does Grantaire know you?”

and Eponine says, “So, what, are we supposed to trust this guy or something? Why, exactly?”

and Musichetta demands, “Who’s driving the helicopter?”

“Autopilot,” rumbles the man who isn’t Madeline, to what he obviously regards as the only sensible question.

Grantaire shakes himself free of Enjolras and Cosette and stands up. The noise of the helicopter is loud and throbbing in his ears and there are tiny dark stars at the corner of his vision.

The man who isn’t Madeline steps forward and steadies him by the shoulders, sending a suppressive glance over Grantaire’s shoulder as he does. Grantaire can just imagine what Enjolras’s face looks like.

“I’m Javert,” he rumbles, index finger pressed between the tendons on Grantaire’s wrist, eyes on his watch.

“Pleasure,” says Grantaire, with only a little sarcasm. His lips feel numb.

Javert ignores him and looks back up after half a minute, his eyes sharp and accusatory. “One to ten, ten being the worst pain you’ve ever felt, how bad?”

Grantaire considers and says, “Seven. But you should bear in mind that I’ve been tortured a lot.”

The ringing silence returns. Javert’s lips thin.

“You never told us that,” says Feuilly, inflectionless, from behind him.

Madeline gives Grantaire a look so full of sympathy and sorrow it makes him flinch. “We have some pain killers you could take,” he says gently, “They’re very strong… They might actually knock you out. I’d understand if you didn’t want them, given the circumstances, but it would stop the pain…”

Grantaire thrusts his arm out and says without hesitation, “Shoot me up.” He turns back to the rest of the flock as an afterthought. “Famous business tycoon billionaire, called Madeline, been trying to figure out the Institute for ages because he knew Cosette’s mum and she disappeared. I found his details that time when we all tried to find different ways out.”

The rest of the flock stare at him in stunned silence. Then Combeferre says carefully, “Uh, where?”

“In the administration building,” Grantaire turns abruptly back to Madeline as the whole world rocks under his feet. He taps urgently on his brachial pulse. “Seriously, shoot me up or I’m going to throw up all over your private helicopter.”

Javert sits him down, withdraws a large green box from an overhead cabinet, and ties a stretchy band around Grantaire’s upper arm. He does all this without smiling, or even looking remotely like he wants to be here, but his hands are gentle and his, “Sharp scratch,” is calming. The needle sinks in and Enjolras looks like he’s about to cry.

&

Grantaire opens his eyes and his first thought is, I thought I was meant to fall asleep. Then he stretches and realises he’s lying in the nicest, biggest cot he’s ever seen, wrapped in sheets that move like water over him, soft and cool. Beneath his head is something hard and lumpy.

“Explain me a thing, sunshine,” Grantaire says, wiggling his toes further into the bed. “I have access to pillows like clouds and I’m on your bony knees.”

Enjolras looks down and his eyes are red rimmed. His hands are still stroking idly through Grantaire’s wild mane. Grantaire struggles up and sits next to Enjolras against the head of the cot. There’s a black-screened tablet, like the ones the Invigilators at the Institute have, lying on the sheets next to them

“What time is it?” Grantaire asks.

“Six,” Enjolras answers.

“Wait, it’s tomorrow?” Grantaire feels like he closed his eyes a few seconds ago. He ignores how much the sensation of losing time thrills him.

“It’s tomorrow,” Enjolras confirms. “You woke up a couple of times. I suppose you don’t remember. How do your wings feel?”

Grantaire shifts. His wings are bound up in white material. It’s not uncomfortable but pretty much all movement is limited. “Fine, they’re not sore at all really. How did that happen?”

“They have a doctor; he was waiting for us at the airport when we arrived. He looked you over, and gave you some painkillers. He said it’s a mix of tendon, ligament and muscle damage. He said he’s surprised you were still conscious when they found us.” Enjolras’s voice has something in it like accusation. Grantaire fights down the dull impulse to hit him and searches for something neutral to say.

“So, you think we can guilt any food out of this lot?”

“Dinner is at seven, I was to wake you up if you weren’t awake by then.”

Grantaire is silent for a moment, then. “Dinner? Enjolras, I thought you meant six am, I was out for 18 hours?!

“Oh, no,” Enjolras clarifies, “It’s ten am to us. But we’re in England.”

“We’re where?”

&

The walls of the living room are a light, warm wood that arches high above their heads. Wooden beams slope up to meet the ceiling and a narrow fireplace is set into the wall, running the length of the room. It crackles gently underneath their voices and through any silence. Big caramel-brown couches are set around low tables. The floor is a shiny chestnut colour and the windows along the left side of the room are floor-to-ceiling and pitch black with the night outside. Sitting nearly enveloped in the cushions of the couch, Grantaire is the safest he has ever felt.

The rest of the flock are not so relaxed. There’s an element of hysteria to their laughter and chatter, with nonsense coming out just as often as sense. They’re all crashing through sleep deprivation and jet lag, high on their escape, thrumming with anxiety at what to do next, and starving-hungry. Madeline orders pizza for them all and it’s the best thing any of them have ever tasted. Compared to their normal meals - essentially nutritionally-approved dog food - stringy cheese and pizza sauce is an utter revelation. They clear the boxes of anything resembling food in a matter of minutes and when Joly politely asks, “Is there any more?” Javert looks frankly alarmed.

The doctor - Doctor Myriel, Grantaire learns from the smiling man himself - says cheerfully, “This lot probably have a very different metabolic system from us. It’s possible they need more food than the average teenager - which, incidentally, is more than adults need anyway.”

More pizzas are ordered and after munching his way through one with vegetables on it, and another with what tastes like ham and fruit, Grantaire finally feels full. He sips an icy cola out of a tall glass and closes his eyes. Beside him, Enjolras tucks his head in against Grantaire’s neck, soft, sweet-smelling curls tickling his collarbones.

They sit on top of each other, piled on the couches like puppies, and Madeline stands in front of them, the light of the fire behind him outlining his silhouette. He looks a little nervous with all their eyes on him. Dr Myriel is sitting by one of the big windows and Javert is lurking somewhere behind them, in the darker corners of the room.

“We haven’t really had a chance to talk yet, and I can imagine you’re all somewhat confused, in spite of Grantaire’s brief run-through in the helicopter. I’d like to fix that, if you’ll all hear me out.”

There’s a silence in which Joly nods encouragingly, Feuilly raises his eyebrows and Grantaire gives him a deadpan thumbs up.

Madeline takes a deep breath and says, as if he’s rehearsed it, “My real name is Jean Valjean. I am known to the world as Ultime Madeline and I am, as Grantaire has said, a businessman. Fourteen years ago a friend and employee of mine, Fantine, went missing. I had been protecting her from her husband, an abusive and dangerous man called Thylomes, and had provided her with a false identity under the name Fauchelevent. She was pregnant, which was what had led her to seek help from me originally—she desperately wanted a better life for her child than that which had been given to her. When she disappeared, I was very concerned, and used all my resources to try and find her. There was absolutely no trace. It was as if Fantine had simply stopped existing. Her possessions were all gone, no one who knew her had heard from her, her ex-husband had also vanished overnight. The only lead we could find - and it was one which was hard-bought - was the Waterloo Institute.”

Valjean had been meeting their eyes individually but here he breaks off and loos away. “No one had heard of it. Or, so they said. Some people seemed to know enough only to know it was a dangerous subject. And then there was the matter of the missing, abusive ex-husband. Logic said that he was responsible, not some shady agency inaccessible to even myself. Or so I… Allowed myself to be convinced.”

He looks mournfully back at them, “I gave up, stopped looking. And for that, I will never forgive myself.”

There is silence for a long few moments and then, again, he seems to pull himself out of his own reverie, a bemused smile curling his lips, “Then two months ago I received an email from someone claiming that he was imprisoned in a place called the Waterloo Institute with Fantine’s daughter and a number of other children. He sent details of the building and the practical difficulties of escape as he saw them, as well as full profiles of each child kept there.” His smile widens and he looks with Grantaire with a kind of abject admiration that makes Grantaire squirms in his seat.

“This was Grantaire, as you all know. And these,” here he withdraws a stack of report files from one of the low tables, “Are your profiles.”

He passes them out. Instantly, half of them start rifling through them.

“A moment more of your time, please,” asks Valjean politely, and they look up. “These files are your property and it is now absolutely your right to disclose or not disclose any of the information therein at your own discretion. However, I should inform you that in my efforts to understand the situation and prepare for your possible rescue, I have read over the files in some detail, as has Dr Myriel. I felt and still feel that this was necessary, but it was an invasion of your privacy regardless and I apologise for that.”

“You know,” drawls Bahorel. “I think my privacy will survive.”

Eponine snorts with laughter. There’s a scattering of nodding and eye-rolling from the flock.

“I’m glad,” says Valjean gently. He shuffles his feet a little, looks at Dr Myriel, then at Javert, then back at all of them, “Unfortunately, although Grantaire was able to get out a huge amount of information, he wasn’t able to give any precise location as to the Institute. He knew the Institute was based in the USA, and could give some details about the seasonal weather and visible constellations, as well as what time he had sent the email at, which helped us narrow it down to the midwest. With this information we renewed a more focused search and travelled to Iowa to find more information personally. We were flying back from visiting a colleague in Wyoming who we had hoped would be able to shed some light, when another friend forwarded us a police report on a huge explosion that had just occurred in rural South Dakota. The interesting thing was that the explosion had been immediately reassigned to an obscure three-letter agency with very little explanation. There was little reason to believe this had anything to do with the Waterloo Institute, but I had a feeling… Five hours later we picked you up at the edges of the Black Hills National Forest.”

“Then we smuggled thirteen government-owned children across the prickliest customs border outside of North Korea,” rattles Javert behind them. “Spending tens of thousands of pounds in the process, breaking more international laws than I would have believed possible in a twelve hour stretch and causing an ulcer the size of a small European country to grow in my stomach.”

“Thank God for capitalism,” says Dr Myriel drily. “Otherwise those tens of thousands of pounds might not have made for such a happy ending.”

“Capitalism is what is going to send the powerful billionaire’s accomplices to Guantanamo, let’s not start gushing pre-emptively Charles,” drawls Javert. Then mutters, as an aside, “This is the most compelling reason I’ve ever heard of for blocking your exes numbers.”

“Patrin…” starts Valjean reproachfully.

There is a sullen silence from the back of the room in reply.

“I won’t hold you all for much longer,” says Valjean, addressing the flock again, who all look about as bemused as Grantaire feels. “Then I’ll leave you to talk together, and decide what you want. This situation is a difficult one. Your biological parents are all dead and the normal means for finding guardians—foster care—would, I think, not be ideal in this situation. I don’t know how far up this Waterloo Institute goes, I don’t know how international the power structure is, but I have a suspicion that it is extremely well connected. I don’t think waging war with faceless government agencies is the best thing for any of you at this time. I have the financial means at my disposal to support you all comfortably. You would have the run of this house, be able to go to school, stay together, and live in comfort. And most importantly, you would be safe. In return for this you would allow me guardianship over you and I would take responsibility for your wellbeing. You don’t have to decide now. If you would rather go off on your own, I will give you financial aid and advise you as best I can. This is not an ultimatum, and your freedom is guaranteed. For tonight, there are bedrooms, showers, and spare clothes just down the hall. You are welcome to all of them.”

There’s silence for a long moment then Enjolras speaks into the space. He’s more hesitant than he’s ever been, his assurance displaced, and it hurts Grantaire’s heart. “What do you gain from all this? Why did you spend all that money, and risk everything and come and get us from halfway across the world just because of an email? Why do you care?”

Enjolras seems to hear himself a half-beat after everyone else and recoils a little at his own cynicism.

“Alright, Grantaire,” mutters Eponine.

Valjean looks at them, one after the other: Bossuet, silent, eyes half-lidded; Joly, small and huddled, hair greasy; Musichetta, jaw set, tiny fists clenched; Jehan, eyes on the floor, fingers playing with his own hair; Eponine, shadows pooled beneath her wild eyes, in her prominent cheekbones; Gavroche, asleep, thumb tucked into his mouth; Cosette, hair frizzing, face soft and pale and exhausted; Feuilly, pizza sauce on his cheek, face still as pooled water; Bahorel, scowling, eyes too-bright; Combeferre, desperation creeping round the edges of his mouth; Courfeyrac, exposed like a live-wire; Enjolras, hesitant, unsure; Grantaire, visible, just and no more.

Valjean takes a visible breath. “You are children,” he says simply, sadly. “You’re just children. You won’t understand, perhaps, why that is a reason for help to be offered freely, but it is a valid reason. You are alone in the world, and you have been treated abhorrently, and you are children. For me, there is no question. Here is a home, please, use it. You have a right to be safe, to be happy, and to be free.”

Dr Myriel and Javert leave the room and Valjean goes to follow them, but falters, “Cosette,” he says, with a smile. “You look so much like your mother. If you like, I’ll tell you about her tomorrow.”

Tears plop down Cosette’s face onto her dirty clothes, “Yes please,” she whispers.

He smiles, “Goodnight, all of you. Sleep well.” And then he’s gone.

“Eponine,” says Enjolras sharply, rubbing his eyes furiously to keep sleep away.

Eponine looks at them all, abject confusion on her face and says simply, “Truth.”

&

Grantaire showers in the ensuite bathroom of his and Enjolras’s appropriated bedroom. He turns the heat right up, till his scalp and shoulders turn red under the hammering water. His wings droop heavily under the weight, his muscles unroll under his skin, and for the first time in what seems like forever, it feels like there’s air filling his lungs. He uses lemon and orange shower gel, coconut shampoo and strawberry conditioner, loves how soft his hair feels, chases bubbles down his arms. The bathroom door is snibbed behind him and he’s enclosed in steamed-white glass. He swirls doodles on it and doesn’t try too hard to find words for how he feels. Warm, safe, happy, free. They’re small words for the bigness of the feeling inside him. Mostly, he just feels realer than he ever has before, shut inside a room with no one to not-see him.

He reluctantly turns the huge shower off after some wonderfully taffy-long stretch of time, towels himself dry, and climbs into clean, soft, dark clothes. He’s never worn clothes that weren’t bleached white and starched dry before. Cotton-polyester is a revelation.

Grantaire drags himself out of the stifling bathroom and into the bedroom, only to find the whole flock bundled onto his and Enjolras’s bed.

Enjolras makes a face from where he’s wedged between a nonsensically-chattering Courfeyrac and half-asleep Combeferre. “They won’t leave,” he whines, and Eponine kicks him in the shin. She’s plaiting Jehan’s long wet hair down his back as he lolls against her.

“Shut up, Enjolras,” Bahorel says good-naturedly. Cosette is asleep on top of him. Feuilly is drooling on her knee but wakes up long enough to mutter,

“Shut up Bahorel,” sleepily defaulting to his conversational mean.

Bossuet, Musichetta and Joly are curled up asleep in a tumbleweed of limbs; it looks extremely uncomfortable

“Where’s Gavroche?” Grantaire asks.

“In bed asleep,” Eponine says. “I had to fight to get his shoes off him.”

Grantaire nods and surveys the bed for any point of ingress. The sleepy pile of bodies doesn’t yield much space. He edges round and lies flat-out over Courfeyrac, Combeferre and Enjolras. Enjolras immediately starts playing with his hair.

“Coeur,” says Grantaire tiredly into Combeferre’s knees

Courfeyrac loses track halfway through his latest tangent, “Yeaaah buddy?”

“I love you, I do. But please, for the love of all that is good and holy in this world. Stop talking.”

Courfeyrac audibly pouts somewhere above Grantaire’s head and Grantaire pointedly ignores him.

“Someone get the lights,” he hears Eponine say, deep in his dreams of big warm lakes, filled with orange-smelling water.

And then he sleeps.

&

Grantaire eats two bowls of chocolate cereal, three slices of toast and a family-sized pot of yoghurt for breakfast. When he eventually—reluctantly—looks up from his plate, Enjolras is there. He’s sitting on the edge of his seat, staring at Grantaire unblinkingly. Grantaire raises an eyebrow and goes back to fishing out the last of the yoghurt with his spoon. 

“I’m sorry,” Enjolras blurts out, apropos of nothing.

Grantaire continues in his pursuit of yogurt, licking it off his fingers. There is a long pause.

“About the roof, and not listening to what you were saying.”

Grantaire looks up, both eyebrows making a bid for his hairline. He literally cannot recall the last time he heard Enjolras apologise.

“But I don’t think I was wrong,” Enjolras continues.

Grantaire rolls his eyes so hard he thinks he might actually sprain something, snorts, and throws his pot in the bin.

“I think I did the best I could with the information I had. And really, it all worked out fine, so…”

Enjolras stares hopefully at Grantaire’s face for several moments before his expression free falls into irritation.

“Will you say something, or,”

“I’m not sure,” Grantaire interrupts, channelling Combeferre at his most reasonable, “What it is you want me to say.”

“Well I,” Enjolras opens and closes his mouth several times. This conversation has clearly veered way off his agenda. “Maybe that it’s all okay? That you forgive me?” He’s half-smiling, hopeful, like now that Grantaire’s caught on they can finally return to their regularly scheduled programming.

Grantaire doesn’t meet Enjolras’s eyes, but his voice is satisfyingly steady when he says, “But I don’t forgive you.”

He opens the dishwasher to load up his collection of breakfast utensils. Enjolras’s stunned silence is a palpable weight behind him.

&1


“So apparently,” muses Feuilly, stretching back onto the hill of grass behind him, “I’m Polish. Huh.”

“Angola?” says Musichetta, “I don’t even know where that is.” She’s been drafted in to the small daisy-chain chain-gang that Jehan is overseeing. Somehow.

“Africa,” says Combeferre absently.

“You’re making the stem cuts too big,” says Jehan to Eponine, who scowls at him. He smiles back serenely, “Also, I’m from France!”

“Lots of us are from France,” says Grantaire, hanging upside down from a tree branch. “Pretty sure I’m from Marseille.”

Combeferre has everyones’ profiles spread out around him. He hasn’t looked this excited since this morning when Grantaire caught him on all fours talking to a moth in the communal bathroom at the institute. “I think the original scientists in charge of our… Well, our insemination and subsequent kidnapping, I suppose, are all from France - that explains our names, at least. What interests me is that you picked French from every other language you could have chosen in the library, Grantaire. Could there be a genetic predisposition to languages? How did you decide which language to pick, when you first came up with the idea?”

Grantaire swings thoughtfully on his branch, stretching his memory back to that particular in-the-moment whim aimed at making Enjolras happier.

“It was the easiest except from Spanish and there was a higher chance that some of the scientists spoke Spanish.”

Combeferre looks a bit disappointed, “It wasn’t because the language sounded nicer or more natural to you?”

Grantaire gives him the win, “I mean, yeah, sure, that too probably.”

“Why didn’t you choose a more difficult language to learn, if you were so concerned about the Invigilators understanding?” Enjolras asks, speaking up from his relentless silence and sulky glances.

“I thought it would be nice if Bahorel and Feuilly understood us when we talked. I mean. It’s not exactly imperative, but it’s nice for them to feel included.”

“I resent that,” says Feuilly, eyes closed.

Bahorel swings down from his tree branch and shoves Grantaire, with probably a bit more force that intended. Grantaire loses his grip on the tree and flips down towards the ground. He lands with a satisfying ka-thup, crouched on all fours, like a ninja. He says as much, “Like a ninja, Bahorel, like a goddamn ninja.”

Bahorel crows in admiration only to look sheepish when Enjolras barks his name a half second later.

Grantaire looks at the others expectantly, waiting for applause, or at the very least some mild appreciation for his super-cool acrobat skills. Instead, everyone looks mostly uncomfortable. Jehan is staring decidedly at his flower chain and Enjolras looks like he’s about to start asking questions, which is a frankly terrible omen for Grantaire’s immediate future. He should have known that - now they were free from the institute - his family would start to expect answers re: his mysterious training at the institute.

Joly clears his throat, “I’m from France too, Combeferre. Somewhere called Normandy?”

Grantaire gives Joly an exaggerated salute for his conspicuous diversion and flops back on the grass.

Bossuet continues, “I’m from Niger.” His voice is quiet and sonorous and Courfeyrac nearly decapitates himself, he spins around so fast.

Musichetta and Joly both look unsurprised, but they are in the profound minority.

There’s an abrupt silence into which Bahorel tramples elegantly, “Wait, he can talk?”

“Ask him yourself,” says Musichetta acidly, the idiot going loudly unsaid.

Bahorel has the grace to look a little shame faced, “So…” he tries again, this time looking at Bossuet instead of wildly around himself. “You can talk?”

Bossuet’s eyes widen in amazement and he claps his hands over his mouth. He holds the expression for a moment before his lips tip into a wry grin. Grantaire, Eponine and Feuilly crack up, laughing in Bahorel’s pouting, chagrined face.

Bossuet seems to take pity on Bahorel and says, “I can talk,” with only a little amusement.

“He just doesn’t like to,” says Musichetta. Her expression makes it very clear that she sympathises with Bossuet’s choice re: talking to Bahorel.

“Cool, man,” says Bahorel, waving his hand vaguely, “You do you, or whatever.”

“You have a nice voice,” Jehan non-sequiturs.

“Thank you,” Bossuet replies, smiling.

&

 “Valjean was telling me all about my mother. Apparently she used to work for Valjean’s company in France, but her supervisor fired her even though she hadn’t done anything wrong. Valjean never knew, he hadn’t known her very well, and he’d been told she’d quit. But five years later she tracked him down and asked him for help.”

“Looks like you got the best of a bad bunch,” says Eponine sourly, “My parents weren’t even killed, they just sold me off. And then they sold off Gavroche five years later. What kind of shitty people do that?”

“Shitty ones,” Feuilly agrees.

“We’re staying with Valjean, right?” Cosette asks anxiously. “I mean he’s really nice, and he offered us the whole place to ourselves. And he came to rescue us.”

“Go straight from being owned by one set of people to another set?” asks Enjolras bitterly. “What an excellent idea.”

Cosette visibly crumples and Eponine snaps, “Could you stop being such an asshole for like ten seconds and actually act like a human person?”

“I’m just trying to think rationally,” Enjolras retorts.

“Grantaire,” Eponine calls imperiously, waving her arm in a kind of deal with this manner that Grantaire honestly resents.

“You’re being pedantic, Enjolras, not rational.”

“Hey,” interrupts Combeferre, before a nuclear-level crisis can erupt over Grantaire daring to question Enjolras’s reasonableness. “We can have a vote, and see where we stand afterwards. Who doesn’t want to stay?”

Enjolras thrusts his hand into the air. Bahorel raises his hand with a lot less enthusiasm straight after. No one else moves. There’s a ripple of surprise around the group. Normally Eponine can be counted on to be distrusting, Musichetta’s shown nothing but wariness in the face of adults, and Courfeyrac and Combeferre vote in line with Enjolras.

“He’s telling the truth,” Eponine says, “And not in an avoiding-the-lies kind of way. I trust him.”

“Me and Ferre like him,” Courfeyrac admits to Enjolras sheepishly, “We think he’s good people.”

“I think this is the right thing to do. And, also, I trust Grantaire,” Musichetta says bluntly, and everyone looks at her in surprise, not least Grantaire.

“You do?” Grantaire asks, with no small amount of judgement in his voice.

“Yes,” Musichetta says, without explaining herself or her strange life choices.

“Alright,” says Grantaire, doubtfully. 

Feuilly asks, “So we’re staying?”

“Yes,” says Eponine, “A majority without Enjolras is still a majority.”

Enjolras scowls at her but says nothing.

Cosette looks delighted and that in itself makes Grantaire smile. She’s a person constructed with happiness in mind, just as much as he is designed for discontent.

“I honestly think we’re in the right place,” she says to Enjolras earnestly. “I think this is where we’re supposed to be.”

&

“So, much as I love ignoring things,” Courfeyrac says. “Are we going to talk about the fact that we have, like, superpowers?”

“I’m in favour of ignoring!” calls Grantaire, raising an arm straight up from where he’s lying flat out on the grass.

“We know,” drone Feuilly and Eponine in unison.

Combeferre’s low-level vibration of excitement bursts out into a torrent of words, “It’s so interesting, have you read it Grantaire?”

“I’ve read it ‘Ferre,” says Grantaire. “Inspiring stuff.” The pages and pages of detailed case reports on experiments done to the flock are nothing short of horrifying, and Grantaire would really rather never think of them again.

“For those of us that haven’t?” says Eponine, raising an eyebrow.

“Basically, it says that lots of us have demonstrated characteristics that haven’t really been documented in humans before and are difficult to explain scientifically. Mostly the abnormalities are in the domain of information processing or altering other people’s perception of us.” Combeferre looks around at this point, as if waiting for everyone to break into a chorus of amazement.

Cosette chimes in encouragingly, “So… Like Enjolras and Grantaire?”

“Yes!” he says, throwing his arms out, “So they’re the most obvious example, because they alter other people’s perception of them to such an extent that it’s actually noticeable as abnormal. But it’s purely a human illusion. Look, here’s photographs of them, look how different they look!”

Courfeyrac peers at them and then visibly recoils, “Whooaaaaah! That is the single freakiest thing I’ve ever seen.”

Everyone gathers around with a morbid fascination that Grantaire strongly disapproves off.

“I don’t approve of this gawking,” he says to the group at large, who unanimously ignore him and continue to gasp and go slack-jawed.

Courfeyrac is trying to explain the phenomenon to Jehan, “It’s difficult to describe. I mean, it’s kind of like Enjolras is super un-photogenic and Grantaire is super-photogenic? Sort of?”

“That’s so weird,” Joly says over Combeferre’s shoulder. “There’s no scientific explanation for the difference? No indication whether it’s behavioural or anatomical? Because that suggests that-”

“There’s an entire range of perception that we can’t account for,” finishes Combeferre with equal enthusiasm, “And that’s what’s altering how we see them. The notes suggest that a single codon repeat in a relatively un-researched gene is to blame, because that’s the only mutation that Enjolras and Grantaire share that the rest of us don’t have.”

“Is anyone else super disturbed by how good looking Grantaire is?” Feuilly mutters, “I thought he was the ugly one but now I’m thinking it might actually be me.”

“Gee,” says Grantaire. “Thanks.”

Enjolras gives Grantaire a look of bewilderment, “You’re not ugly.”

Feuilly looks briefly sheepish, like maybe he’s just realising that telling people they’re ugly might be construed as rude.

“Grantaire does has freckles!” Courfeyrac shouts gleefully. Grantaire covers his nose with a hand, keeping only his panicked eyes on show.

“They’re just looking at a picture of us?” Enjolras asks Grantaire, who gives a bewildered kind of shrug in response.

“Here,” demands Combeferre, thrusting the photos at the two of them, “Look.”

The photo is of Enjolras in one of the exam rooms. The walls are white, and so are his Institute-issued clothes. He looks exactly the same as he always does. Same pouty bottom lip, same pinkish tinge to his eyelids, same imperious scowl, same golden skin and soft, fluffy curls.

Enjolras is examining a photo of Grantaire in a similar situation. “He looks exactly the same,” Enjolras says decisively.

“That’s so interesting,” Joly enthuses, to Combeferre’s excited nodding, “They’re immune to the effects of their own mutations, but it’s not a visual thing, because Jehan’s said that he hears a difference? Oh! I wonder what recordings of Enjolras and Grantaire would sound like to Jehan?

“You know,” says Musichetta, “Just because there’s no Invigilators around doesn’t mean we have to immediately take over their jobs.”

Joly flinches like she’s slapped him.

“That’s not fair,” says Combeferre, brow creasing. “The institute took something from us. We’re taking it back. We’re trying to understand ourselves, I don’t think that’s unreasonable.”

“You’re trying to understand Grantaire and Enjolras,” Eponine points out. “And they don’t look like they’re that interested.”

Enjolras shrugs and Grantaire ignores the whole situation in favour of throwing sticks and tiny pebbles at Bahorel.

“They’re not the only ones in this report,” says Cosette, “You’re in here too, Ep. Don’t you want to read it?”

“Lies give me heartburn,” says Eponine shortly, “It’s not exactly complicated.”

“Okay, but how about the fact that Cosette can kind of maybe see the future,” says Courfeyrac, “That’s not complicated?”

“She can what?” Joly exclaims, riffling through the report.

“Precognitive awareness,” says Combeferre, “That presents as statistically improbable good luck. It’s most obvious in things like coin tosses.”

Joly and Musichetta turn to look at Bossuet in unison. He smiles and twirls a daisy between his fingers.

“What about Jehan?” says Bahorel. “There’s nothing about him in the report, but he’s weird.”

“Thank you,” says Jehan seriously.

“You know what I mean,” Bahorel says, “In fact, you always know what we mean. That’s kind of what I mean.”

“Not your finest sentence, Bahorel,” says Grantaire, as Feuilly pats him on the back. “Besides, I didn’t necessarily get all of the files out. There might be stuff about Jehan missing.” 

“What about you two,” says Cosette to Courfeyrac and Combeferre. “I don’t think I understand this bit about intra- and extra-personal intelligence.”

“Yeah, they did, like, a scored test somewhere…” Courfeyrac flips back through the pages.

Grantaire crawls over to Jehan and drops his head in his lap, lying flat out on his stomach. His nose smushes into Jehan’s bony knee. “Christ it’s not difficult, ‘Ferre knows how people feel and Courf knows how to get people to like him. They’re people persons.”

“That doesn’t sound like a superpower,” says Feuilly doubtfully.

“They’re not superpowers,” says Combeferre patiently, “We’re just improbably good at obscure, difficult-to-quantify traits. We’re statistical outliers, that’s all.”

“We have wings,” says Jehan quietly, “We are a statistical borderland into which men were never meant to step.”

There’s silence, which Bahorel breaks awkwardly by engaging Cosette in a reluctant game of rock paper scissors, which she wins five games of in fast succession.

“How did we never know about this,” Bahorel says in wonder, “I’m on your side on everything for ever, Cos.”

“Thank you dear,” she says, trying for dry and failing because she’s Cosette.

&

Cosette clambers out onto the rooftop through the insulating skylight and Grantaire recognises the expression on her face as one related to Serious Things.

He groans, “How did you even find me?” Grantaire has had enough of Serious Things. A lifetime’s supply. He would happily never think seriously about anything ever again.

“Can I tell you something?” Cosette sits down next to Grantaire on the sloped rooftop.

Grantaire looks at her ruefully, “I wouldn’t recommend it.”

Cosette says, “I want to tell Eponine, but at the same time I don’t, and I don’t know what to do.”

“Did you find me by accident while you were looking for Combeferre?” Grantaire asks. “Because don’t stay here out of politeness, really, my advice is universally recognised as not great.”

“She hates lying but I don’t see the point in hurting her for no reason, you know? And then there’s Gavroche, and he’d just pretend to be fine but I know he’d be hurt.”

Cosette’s straggly curls are tucked behind her little round ears and there’s are spots scattered over her forehead. Her and Musichetta are a good head taller than the rest of them, and all three of the girls look older, less like kids and more like really lost, awkward teenagers.

“Cos, I love you, but I honestly have no idea what you’re talking about. Also, I think you should talk to Ferre.”

“Ferre would tell me to tell the truth,” says Cosette, “And he doesn’t get Ep like we do. She likes being angry, she gets something out of it. If I could tell her stuff without knowing she’d hold on to in for the rest of forever, I’d be happier telling her the truth.”

“What do you not want to tell her?” Grantaire asks reluctantly.

“Well if I don’t tell her I really shouldn’t tell anyone else, should I?”

“Cosette.”

“Those people in the reports, the ones who were supposed to be her parents? They were involved in the facility me, Gavroche and Eponine were at originally, before Waterloo.”

Grantaire drops his head into his hands for a long moment.

“Ep and Gav’s parents worked for the Institute?” he asks.

Cosette nods, big eyes filling up with tears. “The last names are different - we called them the Thernadiers - but the first names are the same. I found them buried in some of the notes about my mother. And it makes sense. Everyone else’s parents were killed right after they were born, but Eponine’s parents had Gavroche years later.”

“Whaaat the fuck,” Grantaire groans into his hands. “Is wrong with these people. Someone needs to write a How To manual for mentally and emotionally impaired parents-to-be. Like, don’t do science experiments on your children, don’t sell them to shady military agencies of questionable morality, don’t be a fucking asshole, you fucking assholes.”

Cosette drops her head onto Grantaire’s shoulder and curls up there. Grantaire pats her on the head absently.

“Don’t tell her,” says Grantaire decisively. “She’ll know you’re not telling her something, but she won’t ask, you know she thinks its rude. And this way she won’t convince Feuilly and Bahorel to go on a revenge mission with her, it’ll be better for everyone.”

“You’re sure?” Cosette’s voice is shaky.

“I’m sure. I’ll take 100% of the accountability for not providing Eponine with a super-villain origins story.”

“Thanks ‘Taire,” say Cosette with a little laugh. “I can always depend on you.”

“That is the least accurate thing you’ve ever said ever, I’m frankly embarrassed for you.”

Cosette laughs and moves to slip back through the skylight and into the house. But then she pauses for a moment, in the square of light. 

Grantaire groans, “What?”

“I used to… I used to get such an awful feeling about you, you know?”

Grantaire squints back at her. Her face is hidden, her hair, backlit, is a halo of frizzy gold. He doesn’t say anything.

“I’d sit next to you and I’d get that feeling, you know, when you miss a step going down the stairs. Or, like, when you wake up from a nightmare, and you’re convinced that some shape in the corner is a person, standing there. That feeling, just, pouring off you. All the time.” Her voice sounds shaky, like she might be on the verge of tears..

“I know what you mean,” says Grantaire quietly. “About the feeling.”

Cosette shakes her head and her halo trembles, “I just thought you should know. It’s gone away now, the feeling. The foreboding or whatever. It’s stopped.”

Grantaire smiles at her and her eyes track the movement perfectly. “Good,” he says quietly.

“Good night, ‘Taire,” she murmurs back. “Love you.”

“You too, Cos.” Grantaire lies back on the roof, eyes wide open.

The stars and void above him make him want to believe that tomorrow will be better for them all.

&

“You have allergies,” Dr Myriel tells Joly, who has been sneezing unceasingly for the past 48 hours.

“So he’s not dying?” asks Eponine, only a little regretfully.

Dr Myriel looks at her out of the corner of his eye.

“She gets testy when she’s tired,” says Bahorel cheerfully. “Ignore her.”

“Why are you tired?” Dr Myriel asks her, concerned, “Are you having trouble sleeping?”

“Joly’s allergies make him snore,” she says.

“I’b sowee Epondine,” says Joly sadly, then sneezes. His eyes are puffed red and bloodshot, and he’s pathetically phlegmy. Feuilly eyes him dubiously and shuffles further away.

“Are allergies infectious?” he asks.

“No,” says Combeferre.

Joly sneezes and says, “Doh.”

Dr Myriel confirms with a smiling shake of his head. “This is the first time you’ve ever suffered from them? Because they’re quite severe to be presenting this suddenly.”

“They give us medication at the Institute,” says Grantaire, who is currently opening all the cupboard doors one by one and looking inside. Dr Myriel is patiently ignoring him, as one would a cat. “Every morning. And they were all different. Probably gave him anti-allergy stuff then, huh?”

Dr Myriel nods, “Ah yes, that’ll be it.”

He gives Joly a box of pills, eye-drops and a nasal spray.

Thus commences a standoff involving Musichetta, the eye-drops, and Joly’s inflamed eyeballs.

“I will sit on you,” she threatens, as Joly’s face remains a good two inches away from the bottle, in spite of his body being contorted backwards over his chair in a reverse banana shape.

“I’ll sit on him,” Bahorel offers cheerfully.

“Bahorel will sit on you,” Musichetta affirms.

“Maybe it would be best to do the eye-drops later,” says Dr Myriel placatingly.

“Fine,” says Musichetta, narrowing her eyes at Joly. “But I will get you.”

“That’s terrifying,” Courfeyrac observes from where he and Combeferre are sitting on the examination table, “Also, doc, is it normal to have tiny hospitals in your house? Because I’m no expert on normal but it seems weird.”

Dr Myriel nods, “It’s unusual, yes. Valjean had this room made up when he realised you might be coming to stay with him, for the same reason that he asked me if I’d consider coming to help out. You need medical care but you also need strict confidentiality. Also, it’s not really so much a hospital as it is a small exam room.”

A ripple of unease goes around the group and Dr Myriel holds his hands up, palms out, “But tiny hospital is obviously fine.”

He looks around bemusedly at them all. “Does anyone else have anything they want to ask? We can talk privately if you’d rather.”

“What would any of us talk privately about?” Courfeyrac asks, honestly bewildered.

“We’re not big on the privacy thing,” Grantaire clarifies, “We’re more into the co-dependence thing.”

“Really?” Dr Myriel asks with more than a touch of irony, eyeing all thirteen of them crammed into the small room. “Well whatever you prefer. Joly, I’d like to look at your legs at some point, if that would be okay with you. Knowledge about your own body is power. If we know the extent of the damage, we will know how to deal with it. Same to you, Jehan. I’d like to know what the source of your visual impairment is.”

Jehan makes the small humming noise of assent that counts as his nod.

Dr Myriel frowns down at the box of anti-allergy medication he’s still holding in his hands, and takes a deep breath. “I just wanted to say,” he begins. “That you’ve all been treated abhorrently by people who had a responsibility to protect you. By doctors. That is the worst-” He breaks off, clears his throat. “To me, that is repulsive. As doctors we take an oath to do no harm, to protect our patients, and they have broken that oath in ways that are completely beyond my comprehension. I need you all to know that I will never touch any of you without your consent, unless you are unable to give it, in which case I will wait for the consent of your family. I will never hurt you, I will only ever try to help you. Your bodies are your own, always and forever. That’s my oath to you.”

More than a few of them have tears in their eyes.

“You’re really not going to hurt us?” Enjolras asks, eyes on Grantaire, voice horribly small.

Dr Myriel’s eyes are wet but his voice is steady and emphatic, “Never.”

&

“We’ve decided we’d like to stay,” says Enjolras to Valjean. All thirteen of them are sitting on the sofas in the huge wooden-beamed living room. Valjean looks both exhausted and delighted. Javert just looks exhausted. Behind them both the sun is setting over the huge green expanse of the gardens.

“I’m so relieved to hear you say that,” says Valjean, and he looks it.

“We just have a few questions,” says Combeferre.

Grantaire experiences the sudden and specific feeling of foreboding he gets when Combeferre is about to list things. From the looks on Feuilly, Eponine and Bahorel’s faces, they’re experiencing something similar.

“I mean, I assume it’s unusual for thirteen children to just appear out of nowhere. Will we need documentation? Are we to be officially adopted? How will we work schooling? I mean, we all read books to a greater or lesser extent, but I imagine there are some substantial gaps in our knowledge. Or health care? I suppose you have Dr Myriel for that, but our full medical records are still at the Institute and we have some complex medical issues. Jehan’s sight, Joly’s legs and Bossuet’s epilepsy are the obvious ones, but we don’t know what else could emerge. We may not even have had our vaccinations. Would Dr Myriel be employed full time? Discretion is obviously a top priority - is there any feasible way we can appear normal in public, so that we don’t attract attention? Otherwise we would be as trapped here as we were at the Institute.”

To Valjean’s everlasting credit, he doesn’t interrupt Combeferre, or try to slow his thought processes to a more comprehensible rate, or even seem particularly overwhelmed. Four down from Combeferre, Bahorel’s eyes are as round as saucers and Joly looks like he’s about to have a panic attack.

“Ferre, you think way too much,” says Bahorel. Beside him, Feuilly nods numbly.

“Not at all,” says Valjean soothingly to Combeferre. “These are all excellent questions that we’ll need to think and talk about together to come to solutions that work for everyone. Documentation is the simple part - it’s easily bought if you have enough money. What we need is a backstory that will hold up to common-sense scrutiny and not set off any alarm bells.

“In terms of schooling, you could be home tutored by a vetted teacher, or go to one of London’s private international schools—they cater to the children of diplomats and international business leaders so you’ll stand out much less than you would in a standard UK public school. I would advise a combination of the two. The first to cover the basic curriculum and see if there are any gaps in your knowledge—which I would be shocked if there were not. The second with time, if you wanted to, as a way of meeting more people your age and making sure you don’t become, to use your term, trapped here.

“Dr Myriel is a highly qualified medical doctor who I have asked to leave retirement to attend to you all full time. He assures me that although this is an unusual situation, blindness, paraplegia and epilepsy are all very common conditions that he is confident he can help you manage. While your chances of future medical problems may be higher than the rest of the population, you will have a personal family doctor, which probably resets the balance quite a bit. You’ll all get vaccinations if you want them. Dr Myriel has said to me—several times—that he will act from here as if you all have full adult competency and that I will not be given any say in your medical decisions. I fully agree with his judgement on this.

“I have also reached out to several old and trusted staff members about coming to stay in the house with us. They will act with the utmost discretion and will help us all with the day-to-day running. As for appearing in public, I imagine there must be a relatively simple way to cover your wings—possible a binder of some kind? Apart from anything else, we are currently in England. Layers, in general, are encouraged here.”

Combeferre seems very impressed by the thoroughness of the answer and even Enjolras looks satisfied. Grantaire thinks Valjean’s calm, measured speech sounds like something he uses in a boardroom to talk down excitable shareholders, but from Eponine’s lack of comment, the man must be telling the truth.

Bahorel raises his hand, “I have a question. How rich are you exactly?”

Javert snorts from his corner. Valjean smiles, “I’m… Comfortably well off,” he says. “I’ve been very lucky in life.”

“That’s not, uh, strictly speaking, an answer,” says Combeferre politely, shuffling his glasses up his nose.

“Valjean is one of the top 300 richest people in the UK,” says Javert bluntly, “Money is not the problem.”

Courfeyrac narrows in on Javert like a heat-seeking missile. “What is the problem?”

“The problem,” says Javert, speaking over the sound of Valjean saying his name warningly, “is that Valjean is a man whose last experience with children was when he was one, and he is seriously suggesting that he is the best person to look after thirteen probably traumatised, definitely abused children with completely unknown biologies and at least three major disabilities between them.”

“We can look after ourselves,” says Eponine acidly. “We just need money and a roof over our heads. And protection from the Institute. We’ll keep our trauma and our disabilities to ourselves.”

Valjean looks absolutely stricken, but before he can say anything Jehan speaks, looking Javert dead in the eye, “The thing is,” he says. “He’s not suggesting that he’s the best choice. He’s suggesting he’s the only choice available to us. And he’s right.”

“We need someone we trust,” continues Enjolras. “Who has provably good intentions, who has the means and the will to support us, and who can protect us. That’s our list of requirements. And we don’t see anyone else lining up to fill that spot.” Grantaire shouldn’t be surprised, Enjolras will never stop going to war for his friends, even for the decisions he doesn’t approve of.

Valjean somehow manages to shoot a quelling look at Javert and a look of utter heartbreak at the rest of them simultaneously. “You think like strategists,” he half-murmurs to himself. “Like little soldiers, the whole lot of you.”

“That’s Grantaire’s influence,” says Bahorel lazily. “If it makes you feel any better Cosette just felt like we were in the right place and no one likes saying no to her.”

Cosette glances at Valjean, embarrassed but smiling.

Valjean looks utterly charmed. The moment of defeat is interestingly visible on Javert’s face.

“You should know though,” begins Enjolras, with all his terrible steel.

Grantaire isn’t susceptible to Enjolras’s light, not in the way the rest of them are but he senses the change in the room. The flock sits up straighter, looks more determined, like fighters instead of survivors-by-chance. Valjean acknowledges them with open respect. Javert looks wary.

“There are things about us that you don’t know. We see the world differently, or make it different just by being in it. We’ll know if you lie to us, or if you sell us out. We know what you’re feeling and we’re pretty good at guessing what you’re thinking. We can kind of tell the future and if we need to, we can hurt you.”

The silence after that rings.

It’s broken by Javert groaning loudly into his hands, scrubbing them roughly across his face. “Super-powered teenagers. With wings. Thirteen of them.” He pulls his face down till he looks like that scream painting that Grantaire saw in a book once, and turns blindly out of the room.

Valjean gives them a frantically apologetic look and follows after Javert.

There’s a rumbling noise in the corridor and they all look at Jehan.

“He says…” Here Jehan’s voice drops to a raspy growl, “You are the worst of the psycho exes, I should have gotten a fucking restraining order on you.”

“They’re together?” Bahorel asks, amazed. Jehan waves him quiet.

“Now Valjean’s saying that he needs Javert to stay, that he needs his help.”

Javert’s next sentence is a clearly audible shout from down the corridor, “Well fucking obviously, Jean!”

&

When evening comes again, and they all start to droop with their ongoing transatlantic fatigue, they try to arrange the furniture in a way that will accommodate thirteen people. Grantaire woke up this morning with every part of his body still asleep, and he isn’t keen on repeating the experience. They’re on their third tetris-ing of the mattresses when Valjean knocks, probably alerted to the presence of a problem by the combined noise of a loudly complaining Bahorel, the heavy thwumping of mattresses, and Eponine and Enjolras bickering.

“I don’t see why we all need to be in the same room,” Enjolras is sniping. “This seems excessive.”

“You can’t sleep unless you’re cuddling Grantaire, literally just shut up Enjolras.”

Valjean mercifully interrupts Enjolras’s inevitable counter-argument with some careful diplomacy. “Why don’t we take all the mattresses downstairs to the living room? There’s more space down there.”

Valjean doesn’t let them carry their mattresses (Bahorel groans gratefully and flops down on the floor) but he does consent to them sliding on the mattresses down the big set of polished wooden stairs at the front of the house.

It starts accidentally, with Bossuet tripping over nothing, landing on one of the mattresses and going flying down the stairs. He only narrowly avoids squashing Cosette at the bottom. His face, when he finally manages to upright himself, is one of the funnier things Grantaire has ever seen. From there, still bent double with laughter, Bahorel grabs his own mattress and surfs down the stairs, knocking Bossuet down once again. The next half hour is a chaos of laughing, falling, jumping, shrieking madness. Grantaire goes down once in a surfing duet with a cackling Courfeyrac and a second time sitting, with a pale-ly determined Enjolras clutching his ribs. Cosette, Eponine and Combeferre go down like they’re in a bob sled, pulling the mattress up at the corners. Joly goes down head-first with Musichetta, shrieking the whole way. Jehan goes down in the Lotus position, giggling. Gavroche goes down four times, running start, backwards, sideways, and standing, and has to be physically stopped from dragging a mattress back up the stairs to do it again.

Valjean and Dr Myriel are watching them with open amusement, and even Javert looks like he’s smiling somewhere deep down.

Valjean tells them, “When winter comes, you can go sledging at the back of the gardens, there’s a huge hill there.”

After he’s explained to them all what, exactly, sledging is, they’re all pretty on board with the idea.

They shuffle their mattresses onto the floor of the living room and cover them with blankets, rugs, pillows and cushions till Valjean’s fancy living room resembles nothing more than a large nest. Valjean sets the fire on low and comes in with a tray of hot milky drinks that taste like chocolate. They have cream and something Valjean calls marshmallows on top.

(Enjolras plunges his fingers into the drink, scoops out the marshmallows and crams a handful into his mouth in one of those extreme lapses in decorum that only Grantaire ever seems to see. He then turns his woeful eyes on Grantaire’s intact mug.)

Sitting with Enjolras’s mangled hot chocolate warming his hands, watching Enjolras suck the remains of his marshmallow goo off his fingers, Grantaire knows, because he doesn’t exactly have a huge selection of memories to choose from, that he’s the happiest he’s ever been.

&2


 Grantaire should know better, really, than to go about feeling things like happiness. That’s the first thought through his mind when Eponine shakes him awake, mouth turned down in a grimace, eyes huge and wild and scared.

“You’ve got to come,” she whispers, her voice alarmingly raspy. “’Taire I think we’re dying.”

Grantaire shoots up so fast he smacks Enjolras in the face and doesn’t even really notice, he’s too busy staggering out of the nest and half-running after Eponine, who’s shuffling out of the living room at speed. He reaches the bathroom right behind her and blinks frantically in the bright white light.

Musichetta is hunched over the sink, water running. In the mirror her eyes are panicked. Cosette is sitting in the bath tub, face washed completely white by the light; bright, violent red on her white capri shorts.

Grantaire feels like his veins have frozen over.

“Where are you bleeding from?” he asks, urgently.

“We don’t know,” says Cosette. “We’re not hurt and I don’t feel bad, but…”

Musichetta wordlessly shows him her underwear, stained red.

“Shit,” he says, “Shit. Okay. It’s okay.” He puts his hands on Eponine’s skinny shoulders and squeezes, “I’m here, okay.”

“Promise?” says Eponine, sounding small.

“Cross my heart,” Grantaire answers.

“My tummy hurts,” she says, pushing herself against him. He enfolds her in a hug.

Over her shoulder, Enjolras is standing silently in the door, lips pressed white and eyes searching Grantaire’s for any sign of a clue. Grantaire doesn’t know what his face shows but Enjolras pales.

“What’s going on?” asks a sleepy Courfeyrac, running a hand through his wild tufts of hair. Then what he’s seeing catches up with him. “Oh shit.” He gesticulates wildly and leaves the bathroom in a whirl of limbs.

Moments later he reappears, physically tugging a bewildered, worried Combeferre by the hand (”Coeur tell me what’s wrong, why are you upset, what’s-”). Joly is right behind them, and his gaze only loses its frantic edge when he catches sight of Musichetta, now curled against the wall. Jehan is behind him, grasping the door lintel hard. (”Why is there blood,” he murmurs, nose flaring).

“It’s just the girls,” Combeferre reasons, “It could be a girl thing?”

“Yeah but is it a normal thing or a not normal thing, because it looks like a not normal thing,” says Courfeyrac. He climbs into the bathtub to sit with Cosette, too intent on cuddling her to notice he’s getting blood on his own t-shirt.

Feuilly, Bahorel and Bossuet appear in the hall and squint in. There’s no more room left in the bathroom but Bossuet slides in anyway, elbowing Enjolras in the side (”Bossuet, for the love of-”) to give him his second injury of the morning. He sits down beside Musichetta on the white tile floor and takes her hand.

“Should we, uh, get help?” asks Bahorel helplessly.

“No, I don’t want anyone,” says Eponine into Grantaire’s chest.

“Come on, Ep,” Grantaire tries to look her in the eyes but she squirms away. “You said yourself he’s trustworthy. He can help.”

“He’s just like them,” she says, voice thick with water.

“He’s not, you know he’s not,” he soothes.

“We’re going to get help,” says Feuilly decisively. “Oh crap, Gav, go back to bed.”

“Where’s my sisters?” comes a reply from down the corridor.

There’s a familiar pretend-roar, as Bahorel picks Gavroche up bodily. “They’re fine, chick, just feeling a bit sick. Nothing to worry about. Back to the nest with you.”

There’s a sound of a thump and giggling, as Gavroche is dropped heavily on the mattresses.

Feuilly disappears out of the doorway and less than three minutes later, a completely dishevelled Javert makes an appearance at the doorway. He looks inside, stares for a long few seconds, then hides his face in his hands with a long groan.

Grantaire sees Enjolras take a breath, a tirade on the tip of his tongue, but Javert regroups just in time. 

“It’s fine,” Javert says abruptly, “You’re fine, this is normal. No one is dying.” He glances back at a thoroughly unrepentant Feuilly, “Except maybe you.”

Feuilly shrugs, “I had to wake you up.”

“You did not have to give me a stroke,” he snarls back.

He withdraws a phone from his pocket and makes a call.

“Charles,” he says, “Add the pill to the list of the things they’ve been giving the kids.”

There’s muffled talking at the end of the line, then Javert replies, “Yes. And this is very much what you were hired for so please make an appearance in the downstairs bathroom ASAP.”

He ends the call and stares at them all mournfully. He seems to make up his mind about something.

“Right. All bird-children who are not Cosette, Eponine or Musichetta, please get out of the bathroom.”

Grantaire does not envy the looks he gets for that.

“We’re not leaving,” says Enjolras stubbornly.

“Yes, you are,” says Javert simply. He gets Enjolras by the collar of his t-shirt and drags him out of the room like a very irritated kitten. To the rest of them he says, “Valjean and Charles might be treating you like glass, but I won’t. I’m officially bad cop. Get out.”

Along with a truly impressive number of scowls in Javert’s direction, there’s a series of meaningful glances directed at Grantaire as the others leave. Grantaire steps into the corner, thinking be one with the wall but Javert turns around and gets him by the scruff. “You too,” he snaps. “Out.”

“Wait,” says Combeferre, pausing at the door. “You can see Grantaire?”

“I can count,” says Javert sardonically.

Combeferre looks for a moment like he’s going to question Javert further, so Grantaire gets him by the shoulders and pushes him out ahead, saying, “Not the time.” He looks back over his shoulder at Eponine, Cosette and Musichetta. Eponine gives him a nod that roughly translates to, “I’ll holler if we need you.” Musichetta sets her jaw hard.

They sit along the wall opposite the bathroom. Enjolras slips his hand into Grantaire’s.

Dr Myriel comes hurrying down the corridor not long after, holding boxes in his hands. He gives them all a reassuring smile, and says, “Everything’s fine, nothing to worry about,” and goes into the bathroom. Javert comes out, leans against the wall, and eyes them all narrowly. Enjolras scowls at him.

After that, there’s quiet except for the low sound of voices in the bathroom. Gavroche, who has stubbornly reappeared, is nodding off on Bahorel’s knee. Bossuet is cupping Joly’s small hands in his own. Jehan is on Grantaire’s other side, under Courfeyrac’s arm. In times of stress, Courfeyrac is a cuddler.

The silence is shattered after five minutes or so by the sound of Eponine shrieking, “Every month?!”

&

Valjean comes down and takes the rest of them into the big kitchen. They sit on stools at the breakfast bar and on the big kitchen table, legs swinging. He makes them more hot chocolates and then sets about, only a little bit awkwardly, trying to give them something Javert refers to as ‘The Talk’.

Halfway through, Combeferre gets very embarrassed, in the way he normally does when he’s forgotten a verb conjugation. “I really should have known, but it’s one thing to read about it in theory and another to see it. I panicked.”

“Blood is scary,” says Valjean. “It’s supposed to be. In any situation except this one it’s a warning sign.”

They all traipse back to bed. The sun has started brightening the sky outside, like a torch through dark blue tissue paper. They curl up and not long after that, Eponine, Cosette and Musichetta crawl back into the pile, wearing clean clothes. Musichetta is immediately enveloped by Joly and Bossuet. Cosette climbs in between Courfeyrac and Combeferre, and Feuilly and Bahorel sleepily make room for Eponine. Cosette mumbles, “Love you guys.”

They all sleep till the afternoon.

&

The next day, the house starts to fill with people. First to arrive is an old man with longish white-and-grey hair, who takes absolutely no notice of any of them. He nods to Valjean, picks up a set of keys to his own suite of rooms, and goes on his way. He is Mr Levent and the look he gives the huge green lawn outside makes Valjean spontaneously offer to raise his salary and Javert cackle.

Next is a thin, tremulous lady with a stutter called Louise, who bats around them like a giant, overly-concerned moth, but asks no questions whatsoever about Valjean’s sudden acquisition of more than a dozen children. She’s much more concerned by the state of the upstairs bedrooms, in which she finds several medium-sized spider colonies that she promptly goes to war with.

Then comes The Hauches. Mr Hauche is a big, angry-faced man with a bushy moustache and a huge, booming laugh. Mrs Hauche is marginally smaller than Mr Hauche, is inclined to scowl at the things her husband finds funny, and wears an expression of almost constant irritation combined with a less-bushy but still significant moustache. They are both extremely Irish. They are, respectively, the cook and the nanny.

Not that Valjean admits to hiring the flock a nanny.

“She’s just coming to help out,” he says serenely, as the flock revolts. Grantaire has faint admiration for Valjean not only being able to process thirteen children shouting simultaneously, but also being able to reply. It’s the best indication Grantaire has seen that Valjean might actually be able to do this.

Enjolras: “We don’t need another grown-up telling us what do do.”

Bahorel, with an optimism that even Feuilly rolls his eyes at: “We can look after ourselves!”

Grantaire: “Way to hari-kari your cause, Bahorel.”

Eponine: “We’ve been looking after Gav and ourselves our whole lives. We don’t need people to do it for us.”

Valjean: “You shouldn’t have to, Eponine. I know you’re all capable. But you shouldn’t have to be.”

Javert, shortly, cutting off at least four protests: “You’re getting a nanny, kids. Get over it.”

&

Myriel bandages Grantaire’s wings every other day and presses big squishy icepacks in sunbeams out from his shoulder blades.

The exam bench Grantaire is currently lying face down on is covered in a hideous floral pattern. Grantaire gives Myriel credit for veering as far away from sterile as possible, even if it means a departure from all forms of tasteful aesthetic.

“So,” says Grantaire, casting around for something to say. He finds himself strangely quiet in the doctor’s presence. Myriel isn’t a foe but he’s not a for-sure friend yet, either. Unknown quantities make Grantaire quiet, watchful, and liable to be overlooked by wandering eyes.

“So?” prompts Myriel with a smile, turning from where he’s binning the old bandages.

“You’re doing your reading,” Grantaire says, nodding at the pile of books on ornithology, stacked on the corner of Myriel’s desk.

Myriel smiles, looking a bit embarrassed.

“Ah, yes. I’m trying to get up to speed on some of the eccentricities of your anatomy. Gavroche stood on those scales the day before last and almost gave me a heart attack. You’re all much lighter than you look. Lots of lean muscle, very little fat. But that doesn’t necessarily mean you’re starving. It might just mean what’s healthy for you is different from the mean.”

“You can say normal, you know,” says Grantaire, trailing his fingers through the air under the bench. His nose is pressed to the horrifying floral pattern. “We know we’re not normal. We’ve suffered enough for it, at any rate.”

Myriel sits in his desk chair and regards Grantaire thoughtfully. “Normal has unfortunate connotations, don’t you think? One could almost think that to be normal is a success, and to be not normal is a failing.”

“Isn’t it?” asks Grantaire, gesturing his hand vaguely at his whole person. “I’m pretty sure this is somebody’s failing. Maybe not ours. We couldn’t have helped being born.”

Myriel shakes his head sadly. “In a purely mathematical sense, to be normal is to be the mean, the average. It is nothing but the middle of the bell curve. To be less or to be more than the mean is simply another point on the curve. People can be of above-average weight, of below-average height. There are no intrinsic goods or bads, it’s just natural variation. And evolutionarily, variation helps us survive.”

Grantaire both likes what Myriel’s saying and can’t find any logical argument to it. This strikes him as immediately suspicious, so he disregards it entirely.

“No offence, but I think kids-with-wings is probably on a different bit of graph paper entirely from normal.”

Myriel smiles, “We’re all on the same line, Grantaire. We’re all human. Having wings doesn’t take that away from you.”

“I never said wings did,” Grantaire says sullenly. Then, fidgeting irritably, “Who cares about lines anyway. It’s about how people treat you. It doesn’t matter if you’re small or a tall, no one’s going to stick you in a science facility and do experiments on you for being a weird height. You’re a freak if people think you’re a petri dish instead of a kid, like, by definition.”

“How other people treat you does not reflect what or who you are,” says Myriel calmly. “It only reflects who they are.”

“I don’t think that’s right,” says Grantaire.

“Alright,” says Myriel, in the tone of someone about to have a philosophical debate, rather than an argument about the legitimacy of Grantaire hating himself. “Valjean treats you all well. He’s kind to you, he gives you access to all his resources, he loves you, though I’m sure you don’t quite realise that yet. How do you account for this, assuming he doesn’t have any kind of secret agenda?”

Grantaire sees the trap and walks into it anyway, “He’s a nice person. He’s good.”

“So, the way he treats you is a reflection of who he is as a person. What’s so different about him, compared to the people who hurt you?”

“There’s only one of him. He’s not the average. Even adding in you and Javert and the Hauches, the tutors and Levant and Louise. That’s still less than ten. A whole institution was built around the premise that we’re not human, that we don’t deserve to be treated like humans. They outvote you.”

Myriel nods slowly, “Well how about this. Do you think the way you were treated—the way your family was treated. Do you believe it was just or fair?”

“No,” says Grantaire, “Obviously, but-”

“Then that’s all that matters,” says Myriel. “People do not have the right to vote on whether or not to treat you well. It’s your right to be treated fairly. It is unassailable, it isn’t something that can be toppled by majority rule. Everyone matters. Everyone deserves to be treated with dignity and respect. This isn’t just my opinion, it’s a guiding rule of civilised society. There are people who ignore the rules of civilised society but their actions reflect nothing about you, and everything about them.”

“You sound like Enjolras,” says Grantaire, “He’s obsessed with the unassailable rights of man. It doesn’t change how people treat us.”

“That’s not the point,” says Myriel gently, “People have treated you like you are less that human. What Enjolras’s unassailable rights mean, is that he doesn’t deserve it.”

Grantaire shrugs and looks away.

Myriel pauses, then smiles, “It means, to be clear: People can be, and frequently are, wrong, cruel and stupid. So who gives a fuck what they think?”

&

The two tutors that Valjean finds for them are called Mabeuf and Plutarch.

Mabeuf is a dreamy but kind man, a little rounded, dark haired, balding, bespectacled, who talks to them about books, history, art, geography, and British and French politics. He seems to regard American politics as something far too gauche to talk about, which equally frustrates and intrigues Enjolras. He keeps a collection of potted plants by the window, which he waters daily, and shows Combeferre and Cosette how to look at the leaves under his microscope. 

Plutarch is tall and well dressed and blonde, an older lady with good taste and very little patience for stupidity. She teaches them maths, chemistry and physics.

Or at least, she tries to.

As it turns out, only Grantaire can do anything past basic arithmetic.

&

Ms Plutarch’s definition of stupid is as follows: Feuilly, who takes a whole fortnight to learn the three times table, but sits dutifully with a paper and pencil every night, is not stupid. Grantaire, who can rattle off every times-table up to twenty but ignores his Intro to Algebra textbook in favour of drawing the lost city of Atlantis, is a complete and utter moron.

People who don’t want to learn, in her book, are the very worst and strangest of people. People who try and make Grantaire do tests, he thinks, deserve the eternal disappointment that he will happily deliver them. It’s a bit of an impasse.

Mr Mabeuf escapes this awful catch 22 by appearing to let Grantaire learn whatever he likes under the banner of self-improvement, and leading informative but loosely-controlled class conversations around him. He seems happy with their overall grasp on spelling and grammar, renounces punctuation as a loser’s game, and tries to field out the worst of their knowledge gaps regarding major cultural events that hadn’t made it into the Institute’s library. These tend to loom up, unexpectedly large, in relation to more recent developments. The Iraq war comes as a surprise to everyone. On the other hand, he is delighted by Flockish, and has long conversations with Combeferre about the intricacies of the linguistic rules they’ve developed over the years.

It’s in Ms Plutarch’s class that problems start to arise. Grantaire would be the first to admit that Ms Plutarch is a fairly nice woman who’s been given the unenviable job of cramming six years’ worth of maths education into the brains of twelve thoroughly-uninterested pre-teens. That doesn’t mean he’s going to fill in all four hundred of the little answer boxes on his exercise sheet.

Mostly, the flock does fine. Joly even says that he finds maths relaxing, which earns him one of Feuilly’s very best incredulous expressions.

“Maths is about repetition,” Ms. Plutarch says for the fourth time that day. (”You don’t say,” mutters Bahorel.) “Maths is about practice. Some people are born with an innate grasp of how numbers fit together-” here she gives Grantaire a dirty look, which he misses because he’s making tiny people out of blutack, “-But for the rest of us, it’s about learning rules and practicing them. It’s about repetition.”

Unfortunately, it’s the rules and the repetition that are the sticking points. Eponine reacts to authority like Joly reacts to large pollinated flowers, Jehan is easily distracted by passing thought-butterflies, Bahorel has historically had a problem with any activity involving the application of thought, and Grantaire doesn’t like people testing him. He’s passed the point in his life, he decides, of doing things that he doesn’t want to do. Feuilly, whose default setting is imperturbable, has so much difficulty with anything involving numbers that he quickly develops a genuine loathing for the subject.

(”Taire, come quick!” Eponine snickers, “Feuilly’s having an emotion!” Bahorel’s head jerks up from where he’s been sleeping on the desk. “Where? Did I miss it?!”)

Ms Plutarch suggests he has dyslexia and Feuilly gets given coloured glasses to wear that seem to help his maths a little, but don’t change the hatred.

All five of them start to conveniently forget about the existence of maths lessons in their lives and focus their energies on more important things, like exploring the huge, tangled gardens around the house.

&

Valjean corners them with hot chocolate and an apologetic expression a week and a half into this academic avoidance strategy.

Javert is, as usual, scowlingly present in the background.

“We’ve heard from Ms Plutarch that you’re having difficulty with maths,” Valjean says, gently. “She tells us you’ve not been going to her classes. I just wanted to ask if you were having problems and if there was anything we could do to help.”

His gentleness—so effective on Cosette—and his reasonableness—which makes even Enjolras stop to consider—are perceived as a signs of weakness by Grantaire and Eponine, and an indication to not pay too much attention by Bahorel (who tends to react to unavoidable things like loud noises and bright colours). While Jehan is by most accounts all-hearing, he listens selectively and his thoughts are an obscure and mysterious thing. Only Feuilly looks honestly conflicted by the direction of the current conversation.

“I’m shit at it,” says Feuilly bluntly. “I can’t do it, what’s even the point?”

Valjean looks sympathetic. “Maths is, admittedly, fairly useless in day to day life. You’ll see this the further along you get with it. Basic arithmetic has its uses, but the more advanced mathematics is basically just a series of thought exercises, which schools use to test your brain. It might make the whole ordeal of learning it less frustrating, if you remember that it’s mostly about getting your brain to work hard.”

“Seems like my brain isn’t so good at that,” Feuilly grumbles.

“There are lots of different types of intelligence,” soothes Valjean. “Having difficulty with numbers doesn’t make you stupid. Unfortunately, if might mean that you have to work harder, which can be a scary prospect.”

“I’m not scared to work hard,” Feuilly says. Eponine rolls her eyes and mouths to Grantaire: gotcha. The ghost of a smile is visible over Jehan’s mug of hot chocolate.

“Of course not,” Valjean says.

“Seems like a shit lot of work,” Bahorel chimes in. “Why does he have to play the game at a harder setting than everyone else? Why not just… Not play the game, if you don’t need maths all that much?”

Valjean gazes at him sorrowfully, “In the long term, because you will all eventually grow up and want your independence, and to get jobs or places at university or college you will need certificates that prove your brains can work hard. In the short term, because I genuinely think the best thing for you all would be to go to school with other children, and the schools you will go to require entrance exams to join.”

Bahorel opens him mouth, looks for an argument, then closes it again when he can’t find one.

“And what if we still just… Don’t want to learn maths?” Eponine says. It sounds like an innocent question. It is not.

“Then I won’t make you,” says Valjean ruefully. “I couldn’t make you, even if I wanted to. You can’t make someone learn something.”

“Yes you can,” drawls Grantaire. “You just need the right incentive.”

Valjean looks at Grantaire, a full-eye-contact, I-see-you kind of look that makes Grantaire’s extremities go vaguely transparent.

“I suppose you’re right,” Valjean says quietly, “I apologise.” He turns back to Eponine and says with weary finality, “If you don’t want to learn maths, Eponine, then you will not learn maths. That’s all there is to it.”

&

“We’re gonna go to class,” says Feuilly regretfully. Bahorel nods in sad agreement.

“I think I will too,” says Jehan thoughtfully. “Mr Mabeuf was talking to me about something called the golden ratio—he says that maths can speak poetry. That’s not too bad.”

Eponine and Grantaire exchange a look that reads clearly: amateurs.

They overhear Valjean and Javert talking in the kitchen, later.

“They’re children,” says Valjean. “Moreover, they’re children with a very clear reason to distrust of authority, rules, arbitrary measurements of their worth, and institutions in general. It’s completely understandable that they wouldn’t fully appreciate the consequences of their actions in the long term, or find those consequences particularly compelling. I won’t punish them. The question is how to protect their best interests without alienating them - how to communicate to them the concept of bad consequences without overstepping their boundaries.”

Javert, who looks for all the world like he hasn’t been listening, mutters, “Eponine and Grantaire aren’t going to sit and learn times tables without a fight. They’re the kind of people who fight like they breathe.”

Valjean looks sadly down at his own clasped hands, “I know, but they need to learn! They’re the ones that will want independence the second they can feasibly have it! They need to have grades!”

Javert scoffs, “When did I imply that you shouldn’t fight back?”

“You’re suggesting I physically restrain children with wings?” Valjean says, sounding exhausted. “Children with a long history of imprisonment?”

Javert rolls his eyes at Valjean’s melodrama, “There’s such a thing as disincentivization. And you can do it without being cruel.”

Valjean gestures wearily, “Be my guest.”

&

The next day, Eponine and Grantaire are sitting on the hill outside the house, throwing grass cuttings at each other lazily and sucking on the candy-necklaces that Mr Hauche had delivered to them covertly, beneath Mrs Hauche’s watchful eye. Mrs Hauche didn’t approve of adding E-numbers to the garbage fire that was the flock.

Eponine has just thrown a clod of grass – which feels more like a half-acre worth of plant-life—straight into Grantaire’s face, when Javert sits down beside them. They eye him sidey-ways, waiting for an explanation, but he doesn’t give them one, just looks at them with raised eyebrows, like, what?

They get up and move, he follows. They ask him what he’s doing, he says things like, “Sitting,” or “Enjoying nature’s wonders,” in such a deadpan voice that it kind of kills any other questions.

Eventually Javert’s disincentivization strategy becomes clear: annoy them back into the classroom.

Grantaire and Eponine stick it out for two days, sitting in the awkward silence that Javert seems to be consciously generating, wandering around the garden with Javert as a long, constant shadow. When they try to take refuge on the old iPad Valjean had given them, the wifi suspiciously stops working. Javert inspects the ceiling as Eponine rhymes off every swear word she knows and some she’s just made up.

“A vicar is a man of God,” informs Javert. “Though I grant you it does sound like a swear word when you say it like that.”

After the two days, Eponine explodes with, “If we go to class will you stop following us everywhere?”

Javert looks over the top of his dark sunglasses at her and grins widely, like a shark.

&

Mrs Hauche takes one look at the pile of mattresses on the floor of the living room and says, “No,” with finality.

She then proceeds to make Valjean, Mr Hauche and a very grumpy Javert lug all thirteen mattresses back up the stairs.

“We’ll just put the mattresses together in a room upstairs,” says Enjolras imperiously, (”Changed his tune,” mutters Eponine), “You might as well let us stay down here.”

“No,” she says again, almost chirpily, like a woman who’s used to saying no to people. “Two to a room, max.”

Grantaire can feel without looking the panicked glances the unholy trinity of Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta must be giving off.

Sure enough. “Three,” says Musichetta, with the gravity of a hostage taker.

Mrs Hauche peers at Musichetta appraisingly, seems to sense in her a worthy foe, and agrees with a nod.

“How am I supposed to choose my favourite?” Courfeyrac exclaims at a supremely unimpressed Mrs Hauche, “That’s like asking me to choose one pizza topping to eat forever! What if I get bored? What if I want to sample the Feuilly-esque weirdness of pineapple on ham? What if I want little Joly fishes, what then? Have pity Mrs Hauche, I don’t have a favourite!”

“It’s Combeferre,” says Grantaire, Feuilly and Eponine simultaneously. (Bahorel looks supremely put out, ”Did you plan that? You’re supposed to tell me when we’re going to do that.”)

“Can I have my own room?” asks Jehan politely. Only after a moment of silence in which Courfeyrac stares at him in horror and Bahorel and Feuilly exchange well then glances does he tack on, “No offence.”

“Offence taken!” shouts Courfeyrac, only to be quietly shushed by Combeferre when Jehan winces minutely at the noise.

“Of course, dear,” says Mrs Hauche, looking approvingly at Jehan as if he’s the only beacon of sanity in this awful new world inhabited only by bratty children.

Javert collapses to the ground at the bottom of the stairs. His long black hair is pulled back in a bun; escaping whisps are plastered to his face by sweat.

“I hate every single one of you,” he tells them seriously. Gavroche takes his prone body as an invitation to accost, and begins to climb Javert’s knees, using his stomach as a footstool. “Especially you,” Javert clarifies to Gavroche, lying down in complete surrender.

Valjean drifts serenely past, asking, “Drinks anyone?” and Javert scowls disgustedly at his back.

&

“They need things,” says Mrs Hauche to Valjean one night, maybe a fortnight after they’ve arrived.

The flock is shlurping down spaghetti bolognese as if, in Mrs Hauche’s words, they’d never seen food before. A huge pot sits on the table, waiting for refills to be needed.

Javert is watching them, his face a study in abject disgust, “You don’t need to know table manners to understand that that’s vile,” he says to Feuilly, who is picking bits of mushroom out of his sauce and flicking them at Bahorel. Who is eating them.

Valjean gestures to Mrs Hauche to continue, which she does, after rapping Feuilly’s hands with a wooden spoon and snapping, “Use your cutlery you little cretin.”

(Bahorel jeers and Feuilly makes a threatening gesture with his reclaimed fork.)

“They need more clothes,” she continues. “Individual clothes, because right now they’re all wearing each others.” She looks pointedly at Bahorel, who is currently wearing one of Eponine’s pleated skirts.

“Not very liberal of you, Mrs Hauche,” muses Javert, contemplating a tomato on the end of his fork.

“Listen you,” she snaps, brandishing the wooden spoon in front of Javert’s nose. He goes cross-eyed to evaluate the threat. “He can wear all the skirts and dresses he likes, as long as they’re an appropriate length. There will be no bare backsides in my kitchen!”

Bahorel, Feuilly and Courfeyrac howl with laughter and she silences them all with a look.

“Also, something to keep the little one occupied. And phones for them all, or else I’ll be forced to keep them on leaches so they’ll come in for their dinner. And maybe some laptops? Or books? Anything, Valjean, I’m at my wits end. Five of them almost set fire to the garden yesterday, Mr Levent nearly murdered them with his rake!”

Javert takes the time to individually scowl at Eponine, Feuilly, Grantaire, Bahorel and Jehan. He doesn’t seem to mind that it’s entirely lost on Jehan, and mostly lost on the rest of them too.

Not Feuilly, though. His sense of moral outrage temporarily overshadows everything, including objective facts. “I resent the accusation you’re making right now,” he sniffs

“You resemble the accusation I’m making,” Javert growls. Feuilly’s hair is still a bit singed at the ends.

Valjean breaks in to the ensuing people’s trial (Enjolras’s mouth is already open to incriminate at least Grantaire) and says to Mrs Hauche, “Absolutely. Clothes, books, games, phones. Those are wonderful ideas, Mrs Hauche, I’ll arrange it immediately.”

&

What Valjean arranges is thirteen kiddy bank accounts into which he deposits an amount that makes Javert’s eyes water, when he sees it.

First, though, they have to decide on a last name.

“You don’t want to take your original parents’ last names?” asks Valjean, curiously.

“Our parents were shit,” says Feuilly. Eponine nods in dark agreement.

“Well,” allows Joly. “All except Cosette’s.”

“We already have creepy human-rights exploiting scientists for our first names,” says Grantaire. “If you suggest taking our awful parents' last names in homage, Enjolras will definitely explode.”

“We should all have the same surname anyway,” says Enjolras. “We’re the only family we’ve got. Why shouldn’t we share a family name?”

“We could use Madeline!” says Cosette brightly.

(“Mr Muffin,” mutters Feuilly to a snickering Bahorel.)

Valjean rubs his neck, “Ah, I wouldn’t recommend that, dear. It’s a fairly well known name. People might question where my sudden influx of heirs came from. Best to use one of your own, just for the flock.”

This, it turns out, is easier said than done.

In amongst the avalanche of pastry puns from Bahorel, Feuilly, Bossuet and Joly—(”Mr Croissant,” “No, Mr Baguette, it’s also the word for wand. We could be like wizards!” - “Personally I’m a fan of Mr Cinnamon Bun.”) Courfeyrac goes down the route of naming parts of birds in French. Mr Plume, Mr Bec, Mr Coin-coin.

“The bird puns are even worse than the bread puns,” says Enjolras to Grantaire in a tone of muted horror. Louder, he says, “It does actually have to be something vaguely recognisable as a name!”

Combeferre clears his throat and everyone goes quiet, “Jehan has an idea,” he says.

“How about Amis?” Jehan says quietly.

“Like friends?” says Courfeyrac, wrinkling his nose, “But Jehan! I thought we were family! Next you won’t even tutoyer me! Are we vous, Jehan?! Are we?!”

“Like the last name,” says Combeferre, with an eyeroll, as Eponine flicks Courfeyrac in the ear.

“And no one said you can’t also be friends with your family,” says Joly with a smile. “Joly Amis sounds so happy! I like it, well done Jehan!”

"Amis comes from amicus, amare," clarifies Grantaire. "So it really means love. The classics knowledge in this family is shocking, Jehan."

Valjean, who’s been quietly watching the whole ordeal unfold, smiles. “So, Amis, then? Is it decided?”

“Vote,” declares Combeferre.

Twelve hands raise in unison. Gavroche, on the ground, is busy trying to stuff his entire fist into his mouth. Enjolras gives him a disapproving look for opting out of his democratic rights.

Combeferre smiles back at Valjean, “It’s decided.”

&

“You don’t give an unlimited amount of money to twelve years olds and tell them to ‘have fun’,” Javert is hissing at a completely unperturbed Valjean. “You don’t give them any money, at all, if you can help it.”

“Javert, if you would like to personally supervise every individual purchase they make throughout the next six years, you are my honoured guest,” says Valjean serenely. “I, however, have a healthy respect for my own mortal powers.”

“If one of them tries to bring home an elephant,” threatens Javert. “Then hell mend you, you’ll be getting no help from me.”

“Don’t be ridiculous Javert,” answers Valjean. “Where on earth would any of them get an elephant?”

“This is London,” Javert hisses, half-hysterically.

&

They’re divided into supervisable groups, for the purposes of visiting the shopping mall.

Grantaire, Feuilly, Bahorel, Eponine and Jehan—the group that Javert has taken to calling Category Five while in their hearing (and That Fucking Five when he’s only within range of the grownups and Jehan)—have been put with the man himself. He doesn’t look happy, but Grantaire is unsure if that’s because he’s been given by far the hardest job, because Bahorel has stolen his sunglasses and is wearing them on the back of his head, or if it’s just because that’s who Javert is as a person.

The tetrarchy that is Enjolras, Cosette, Courfeyrac and Combeferre go with Valjean. Grantaire still isn’t sure how Courfeyrac ended up getting tarred with the same brush of innocence as the rest of them, seeing as he’s almost always the one with the worst ideas.

The unholy trinity of Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta, plus Gavroche, are accompanied by the Hauches. Gavroche has been persuaded to be responsible for Joly’s wheelchair-pushing, which only minimally reduces the absolutely colossal risk of loosing him in the huge building, and more than slightly increases the risk of Joly coming to injury.

It’s the first time any of them have been out in public before. Their wings are held down by tight-fitting tshirts, and covered up by baggier hoodies. Jehan is simultaneously spooked and fascinated. He holds Grantaire’s elbow tight, something he does almost never, but stops outside certain shops and underneath the domed roofs, head craned up. He halts them for a good five minutes outside the food court with a bizarre expression on his face. “There’s so many people,” he says to Grantaire in amazement.

“Yep,” Grantaire agrees. He’s never seen this many people in his life. He’s never experienced a crowd before. He can’t imagine what it’s like for Jehan.

Javert herds them onwards and says, “No trying anything on. Go with the sizes Valjean gave you. I’m not having any awkward confrontations in changing rooms today. Keep your feathers to yourselves.”

He takes them to what feels like hundreds of clothes shops, demonstrating a surprising amount of patience for someone who is loco-en-parentis of the dual human hurricane that is Bahorel and Feuilly.

Feuilly likes checked shirts and trousers, trainers and light neutral-coloured jackets. Grantaire gets the feeling that this is where the normal clothing choices end.

Bahorel finds a truly shocking selection of Hawaiian shirts, board shorts, thick neon trainers, and at least three pairs of flip flops. He also leads the charge towards the brightly-coloured underwear.

After a while, Javert eyes Eponine and Grantaire’s nearly-empty hands, and carts them off to a shop with much more black in it.

Here Eponine piles black tshirts, shirts, skin-tight jeans, cargo pants, and jackets into both her own basket and Grantaire’s.

“We’re dressing Grantaire?” Bahorel says excitedly, “Why didn’t anyone tell me?”

“You are dressing no one,” says Feuilly.

“How bad is it?” Jehan asks gleefully.

“So bad,” says Grantaire.

Grantaire really doesn’t care much one way or the other. He’s in the uncomfortable situation of not really knowing enough to have an opinion. He errs for the safety of monochrome colours and simple designs.

Eponine, he guesses, is trying to get as far from starched white as is physically possible.

“Remember to get socks and pants,” says Javert, “I mean- Underwear. And you should all get a bag of some sort too.”

“What’s the bags for?” Eponine asks, frowning.

“To carry things,” says Javert, slowly and clearly. Eponine narrows her eyes and flounces off to find a black backpack.

Jehan is wandering the shop, running his fingers over everything. Javert, who’s been watching him too, catches him by the sleeve. “This way,” he says, and leads them all out across the mall to a shop that’s painted in magentas and golds. Inside, the customers are mostly youngish women, trying on floral dresses and pointy shoes.

Grantaire understands a bit better what’s going on when they actually go into the shop. There are silk shirts and bright corduroy trousers, delicate ballet shoes tied with ribbons, crepe dresses and a velvet coat that Jehan comes to a dead stop when he touches. He pulls it off it’s hanger and nuzzles his face into the soft material, then pulls it on. The sleeves come down over his fingers and the hem is below his knees.

“How does it look?” he asks, doing a twirl. The coat is a royal purple, with gold fastenings down the front.

“Awesome,” says Eponine, on behalf of everyone.

“You look like a wizard,” says Feuilly seriously.

The ensuing competition between Feuilly, Bahorel, Grantaire and Eponine, to find if not the nicest, then at least the tactile materials in the shop, earns them some very judgemental looks and at least two significant coughs in Javert’s direction. Javert thoroughly ignores them.

They leave the shop with four magenta bags and a beaming Jehan. Bahorel, spotting a lull in the conversation, immediately starts to make grumbling noises in defence of his poor under-nourished stomach.

Instead of making for the food court, Javert peels off towards a different shop. “Indulge me,” he says.

“What’s that smell?” asks Jehan, wrinkling his nose.

“Leather,” says Javert. “Have at, you little hooligans.”

Rows of leather jackets in hundreds of different colours and fits are laid out in front of them.

Hunger forgotten, Bahorel finds an aggressively pastel pink bomber jacker, puts in on and refuses to take it off, even for it to get rung up at the till.

Feuilly chooses a soft, buttery brown jacket, and Eponine ends up buying three different black ones. Grantaire’s starting to see a pattern in the clothes Eponine’s buying: they have spikes and thick zippers and layers, they’re blocky and dark and thick, and they’re about as close to armour as you can get without involving chest plates and chainmail.

Jehan runs his fingers over the different jackets with a thoughtful look on his face. “Are there any that don’t come from animals?” he asks Javert.

The man at the counter shoots Jehan a very offended glance, to which Javert shoots back a scowl.

“Not here, but they’ll have vegan leather in the other shops, and it’s much cheaper too.”

Jehan smiles, “I think I’ll just stick with my wizard’s coat if that’s okay?”

Javert shrugs, then in one of those secondary gestures people always end up making around Jehan, claps him on the shoulder. “It’s your money, kid.”

Grantaire doesn’t hear any of this because he is, for the first time in his whole life, falling in love with an inanimate object. His jacket is thick, with padded elbows and a soft, quilted lining. It’s dark green and he buys it big, so that the cuffs hang over his fingertips.

&

They all meet back up in one of the cheap restaurants off of the food court for an all-you-can-eat pizza buffet.

“They are in no way prepared for you lot’s definition of all-you-can-eat,” Javert tells them, with a malevolent grin.

Valjean takes one look at them and gives Javert a strange, entirely fond kind of smile. “I see you’ve been having fun.”

“Tiny motorcycle gang!” says Javert gleefully.

In between a volume of pizza that renders the waitress honestly speechless half-way-through her “is everything okay here?”, the flock exchange presents.

Joly has hats, scarves and gloves for all of them. “I knew none of you would remember,” he says brightly. “But British winters can be cold too!”

“It’s not winter already?” asks Bahorel, eyes wide.

“It’s May,” says Eponine scathingly.

“I thought maybe seasons were different here,” says Bahorel mournfully.

Somewhere in between her quest for all things black, Eponine has picked up dozens of tiny trinkets for Cosette, little rings and silver chains and delicate bracelets. In return, Cosette has bought her a pair of black thumpy boots that come up almost to her knees.

Bossuet slides a big box across the table towards Jehan. “They’re audio cds,” he says with a smile, “So you can listen to stories. The person in the shop told us to get Harry Potter.” Jehan hugs the box to his chest tightly.

Grantaire gives Enjolras the twin of his green jacket. It’s got gold zips instead of silver, and the jacket is a bright, deep red. Enjolras beams at it and pulls it on immediately. He knocks knees with Grantaire under the table.

“Here, I have something for you too.” Enjolras pulls out a huge hard-backed book—it has a soft, leather-bound cover, swirling patterns on the flyleaves, and gilded paper edges. It’s titled, The Iliad and The Odyssey by Homer.

“I know I made you lose your copy,” says Enjolras looking down at his pizza. “And I know I can’t make up for it, but-”

Grantaire rolls his eyes, throws his arm around Enjolras’s shoulder and kisses his temple in one smooth, well-practiced motion.

“Shut up, sunshine,” he says fondly.

“Er, Combeferre,” says Eponine, biting her lip. Along the table, all of what Javert calls Category Five start laughing, silently and hysterically. Combeferre regards them with a very serious kind of wariness. “We, er, have something for you,” Eponine chokes out through her laugher.

After the leather shop, Category Five plus Javert had headed to the book shop. They had wandered in on a whim when Jehan had said dreamily, “Combeferre will get all his answers now.”

It is possible, in retrospect, that they had underestimated the sheer volume of questions Combeferre had asked within the span of their living memories. The pile of books they place on the table comes up to over Combeferre’s head: An Encyclopaedia of Moths, An Illustrated Guide to the Milky Way, The Human Body, The Railroads of Great Britain, The Art of Film, Illustrated Geology, Hieroglyphs of Ancient Egypt, Ghosts and the Paranormal, and Hot Air Balloons of the World.

Combeferre examines the titles, looks almost like he’s about to cry, says, “Thank you,” four times in quick succession, and then starts reading the book on moths over the remains of his pizza.

(“Told you,” mutters Bahorel to Feuilly, smugly.)

(“Moths, though!” mutters Feuilly. “Who’d have thunk it?”

Musichetta gives Enjolras a poster with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights on it (”Thank you for that,” says Grantaire, drier than dust) and Grantaire a tshirt with the word NO printed on it in big letters. “I thought you could just wear it instead of talking,” she says sweetly. Eponine cackles, Grantaire scowls, and Enjolras hides his smile in a cough.

Combeferre has three different types of rubik’s cubes for Feuilly.

Everyone has something-or-other for Gavroche. The winner is a toss-up between a giant purple cuddly-toy elephant, courtesy of Category Five (”Where did you hide it?!” Javert asks, bug-eyed with horror) and the Tetrarchy’s contribution of a pair of trainers with wheels on the bottom (something every adult at the table regards with mute despair).

“You kids do realise that you’ve all got your own money?” says Javert, bemused. “You’ve spent all day shopping for each other.”

Cosette rings her hands a little, like she does when she’s talking to grownups or the very tall. She looks from Valjean to Javert, and back. “We’re very, very grateful. And it is lovely to be able to buy things for just yourself. It’s just…” Here she breaks off and her hand-ringing steps up a notch into can’t-find-the-right-words territory.

“I imagine,” says Valjean kindly. “What is even more wonderful, is giving things to people you love, who you’ve watched your whole life go without anything.”

“Yes,” says Cosette, relieved. “It’s just that.”

&

The day after that, a huge pile of boxes appear in one of the empty rooms off the living room. No one except Mr Levant is around, and he’s still testy over his nearly-fried begonias, so all he says is, “They’re for you.”

The boxes, once unwrapped, reveal a terrifying amount of electronics. Thirteen phones and laptops, for starters. Four different games consoles with handsets, a box of games and a huge television. Assorted headphones and earphones. Tablet-sized devices that look opaque rather than lit-up, which on opening are filled with hundreds of books. A thousand different cables.

Feuilly’s latent organisational abilities kick in and he and Musichetta get everything mostly stacked into thirteen piles and a bigger, shared pile, for the things they have absolutely no idea how to work.

“This seems a little excessive,” says Cosette worriedly, looking around her at shiny silver and black.

“Excessive is Valjean’s modus operandi,” says Grantaire. “Anyway, it can’t hurt.”

“We have things Cos!” says Courfeyrac. “Actual things! Of our own! I counted this morning, and apart from clothes I have four things plus all this makes eight! I have enough things to put in a bag!”

“How do we work them?” asks Musichetta exasperatedly. The contents of the phone’s starter pack has exploded over her lap.

“There are manuals!” says Combeferre brightly, to the enthusiasm of literally no one else.

“I’m just going to poke at it until it works,” says Eponine decisively.

(”How’s that working for you with Grantaire?” Bahorel asks Enjolras seriously. Grantaire throws his phone box and Bahorel’s head. It hits him with a satisfying smack.)

&

When Javert and Valjean look in on them that evening, they are ringed around the room at various plug outlets, with headphones on, bent over phones or tapping confidently at laptops.

“There is a merciful God after all,” says Javert, with what looks suspiciously like tears in his eyes. “Silence! What a beautiful sound!”

&

The next day they discover the games consoles and Javert’s precious silence is shattered into a million beeping, cheering, midi-toned pieces.

&

“We’ve been thinking,” says Joly. “If we’re going to go to school and be with other kids, we need to learn how to be kids first.”

“Wait, we’re not kids?” asks Feuilly seriously.

 “We’re weird kids,” says Musichetta over the sound of Bahorel’s wails (”No! No more learning!”). “Other kids have favourite movies,” she says, “and tv shows and books and music. They’ve done stuff like go to bowling and ice-skating.”

“You’re saying that the grownups’ll give us everything they can, but they can’t teach us how to be normal,” clarifies Combeferre.

“We’re not that weird,” says Courfeyrac, offended.

“Until last week your most treasured possession was a yellow bottle cap,” says Grantaire. “Which you liked because it was yellow. We’re a little bit weird, Coeur.”

Courfeyrac harumphs but doesn’t argue.

Joly wades bravely on, “We should do nights where we watch all of the most famous movies? We could take it in turns to pick. And Mr Mabeuf gave us that list of the important kids books. We should all read them. When we were in that book shop, the lady looked really surprised that we hadn’t heard of Harry Potter.”

“Being normal sure seems to have a lot of shoulds in it,” mutters Feuilly - quietly to avoid the death-stare of Musichetta.

“How are we going to get all this stuff?” asks Cosette worriedly, “It seems like an awful lot to ask of Valjean.”

“You can buy things online, and then they send them to your door,” says Grantaire.

Everyone look at him in surprise.

“How do you know?” asks Eponine.

“I did it once with fireworks,” Grantaire snaps back, short enough that no one asks any follow-up questions.

“That could work,” muses Combeferre, smoothing the awkwardness out. “We just have to look up lists for the best - there must be ones on the internet - and then buy them, and get them delivered.”

Combeferre types up the lists carefully, hunched over his laptop, and Eponine uses the pile of debit cards they’ve surrendered to her to purchase everything from online shops. 

The rest of them play Mario Kart, which is a demonstrable recipe for disaster, but they keep doing it anyway.

Cosette wins, consistently, with a slightly puzzled but cheery expression, like she doesn’t know why the rest of them are having so much difficulty.

Bossuet repeatedly plunges off the edge without getting any further along the track, to the amusement of everyone, especially himself. Courfeyrac swaps controllers with him; Bossuet does not get any better at staying on the road.

Courfeyrac, Bahorel, Musichetta and Feuilly are meanwhile engaged in a kind of shell-based civil war that Enjolras keeps getting sprinkled with friendly-fire from. (Enjolras, poutingly: ”Courfeyrac, I’m on your team!” Courfeyrac, half-hysterically, shrieking, hurling shells: “There are no teams in Mario Kart, Enjolras! This! Is! War!”)

Grantaire is laughing too hard to steer effectively and has come to a kind of spinning stop. When Enjolras turns his ridiculously offended face in Grantaire’s direction, Grantaire hiccups, grinning, swaps their controllers, and takes Enjolras’s car to third place to unanimous howls of, “Not fair!”

Joly is in second place, expression wild, driving backwards, using his controller upside-down. Combeferre points this out to him, only to be told as the car careens narrowly around a bend, “No Combeferre, there’s no time to turn around, this is who I am now."

&

Literally hundreds of books, DVDs and CDs arrive the next day.

“We’re learning to be real kids,” chirps Cosette to an at-first bemused and then vaguely heartbroken Valjean.

Javert looks extremely amused until he spots the The Godfather, Pulp Fiction and The Matrix in the piles.

Enjolras talks loftily about ageism and how they’ve all already seen worse anyway as Javert goes through the piles systematically and removes anything higher than a fifteen.

“If I am going to be a parent,” says Javert disgustedly. “I refuse to be an abysmal one.”

The tetrarchy, plus Eponine - to Feuilly and Bahorel’s disgust - embark on a competition to see which one of them can get through the Harry Potter books fastest. This leads to long periods of silence followed by a the weirdest numerical trash-talk ever heard in the flock. (”Shut up, Coeur, you’re still on chapter 8, I’m on page 512.”)

Jehan, quietly, is learning Braille, making his way through chunky, thick-paged How To books faster than anyone reading Harry Potter

&

At night, Grantaire lies awake under Enjolras’s dead weight.

That’s what he thinks it is, at first. Enjolras used to use Grantaire as a blanket. Now he rolls himself on top like a giant, many-limbed paperweight and Grantaire feels sometimes that he’s suffocating in the heavy heat. He tries to roll out, to disentangle himself, and Enjolras clings tighter, like he’s afraid Grantaire’s going to disappear.

But one night, when he manages to get Enjolras strangling the pillows instead of him, he lies out flat on the bed, stares up at the skylight and the stars that spin outside it, and he still can’t sleep.

Sometimes when he closes his eyes, Montparnasse looms out of the red-dark of his eyelids, expression awful and furious and betrayed.

So he keeps his eyes open, and watches the stars, and lets Enjolras sleep on his lungs.

&

“It seemed like a good idea,” says Joly doubtfully as they all peer out over the expanse of ice. Valjean has booked the whole rink for the afternoon, which is good because it means only they will be witness the utter carnage about to ensue.

Valjean is busy running the huge, multi-national business empire that he has until now been completely ignoring in favour of making them endless cups of hot chocolate and bickering with Javert about parenting technique. Only in answer to the increasingly strident calls from his investors that he had gone into work today (apparently China was doing something unpleasant to the market) but he’d been very explicit about the flock calling if they needed anything.

(“Anything, understand?” he’d said, as Mrs Hauche shooed him from the kitchen. He had looked different in shiny shoes and a black suit jacket, without his ever-present cardigan and slippers. “Even if you don’t think it’s important. If you’re worried at all, if you need a lift, I’ll be available right away!” Javert hadn’t even make fun of him, he was too busy heading off to his own mysterious Javert-ish business. He yanked on his now-familiar leather jacket, crunched toast, glugged coffee and said in their general direction: “Remember kids, if you can’t be good be smart. And if you can’t be smart-” here he had finished the coffee and dumped the empty mug in the sink. Feuilly and Bahorel had finished for him in chorus, ‘look innocent!’ Javert had shot them a thumbs up and disappeared out the door, brushing toast crumbs off his jacket.)

It’s currently looking more and more likely that they will be phoning their guardians from the emergency room. Grantaire can just imagine Javert’s expression when he receives that call.

“Are we supposed to stand on these?” asks Musichetta doubtfully, inspecting the bottom of her rented ice skates.

“It’s not so difficult,” says Courfeyrac, standing on the sponge-like flooring, wobbling frantically on the two thin blades.

”Both my ankles just broke from looking at you,” says Eponine with a scowl.

Grantaire looks at the ice rink, his feet, and the ice rink again, then steps on to the shiny white surface before his brain can develop a neurone or two capable of good ideas.

Courfeyrac yelps, “’Taire!” and Combeferre murmurs, “Oh dear.”

Then Enjolras speaks up, sounding strangely serene for someone that’s watching Grantaire shuffle painfully slowly across the ice. “Don’t worry about him. He’ll be fine.”

Courfeyrac wildly vocalises for the entire group, “What?!”

And Grantaire hears - because the ice is strangely quiet and the big room make noise seem closer - Enjolras’s reply. “You never saw him fly.”

Grantaire reaches the edge of the rink across from the flock and turns, hands grasping the handrail. He thinks he understands the ice now, the way his feet move on it, the way his body has to sit in space, loose in some parts, tight in others. It is a lot like flying, he thinks. Then he launches himself onto the ice again in a fast, low, swooping movement.

He hears Bahorel squawk loudly, and Eponine shout, “’Taire!”, but only distantly. Because he’s flying again.

He streaks across the length of the ice, feeling cold air gently buffet his face and stream between his fingers. He spins and crouches and jumps, almost-falls, then rights himself. He swoops in huge arcs, arms outstretched, eyes closed. He speeds up, races from one end to the other, then skates back to Enjolras.

His teeth are cold and he realises he’s grinning hard enough to hurt. Enjolras’s answering smile is brilliant.

“Come on, sunshine,” says Grantaire, hands out.

Enjolras steps onto the ice without a second thought and takes Grantaire’s hands in his. Grantaire slides back once, twice, three times, until he’s swooshing backwards across the ice, dragging Enjolras with him. Enjolras, whose whole body is tense-tight and wrong, moving awkwardly and instinctively in all the wrong ways, but whose laughter rings across the whole rink like a bell.

“How is it,” Enjolras says, panting slightly. “That your limbs always knows what to do?”

“It’s to make up for the rest of me that hasn’t got a fucking clue,” says Grantaire, spinning Enjolras out and away like a salsa dancer, then back in, flailing, to the circle of his bony arms. Enjolras hugs him, stills them, and pushes his nose into the curl of Grantaire’s neck.

“I miss you,” he mumbles, like he doesn’t really want Grantaire to hear.

“I’m right here,” says Grantaire.

Enjolras shakes his head and doesn’t look at him.

Grantaire is well aware that you can miss a person who’s still, technically, right there. He misses himself all the time. “Sorry,” he says helplessly.

Enjolras shrugs and hugs tighter, past the point of cuddling and into sleep-strangling territory. His fingerprints press pink ovals into Grantaire’s skin.

The rest of the flock make the transition onto the ice with varying degrees of success. Jehan grasps forwards and Cosette develops a method of continually nearly-falling that propels her across the ice. Bossuet has fallen down four times in the space of thirty seconds, nearly taking Joly’s chair with him on the last descent, and is now sitting cross legged on the ice, looking more puzzled that anything else. Eponine is carefully inching her way around the edge with Combeferre, hands tight together. “Sorry,” she says acidly, as the two of them make their way round near where Enjolras and Grantaire are standing, “Are we interrupting a moment?” Feuilly, Courfeyrac and Bahorel, in spite of their complete inability to skate with anything approaching uprightness, are racing across the ice leaving a trail of destruction and a nearly-toppled Musichetta in their wake.

Gavroche hurtles past Grantaire and Enjolras on his knees, whooping and cawing like a bird. He spins onto his back and lies on the ice, giggling and exhausted.

 “I should go and get him,” says Grantaire to Enjolras, “Will you survive?”

“Please come back quickly,” Enjolras says seriously. “I don’t know how to get to the edge again.”

Grantaire salutes and whizzes off to haul Gavroche to his feet.

&

They watch every Disney movie that has ever been released for commercial entertainment, then work their way through Dreamworks and Studio Gibli.

Courfeyrac now exists in a permanent state of off-pitch song, to the horror of everyone.

They take turns picking films every night. Joly puts on Star Wars and then plunges them all into a never-ending hole of sci-fi films and Joss Whedon tv shows. Cosette, who won the Harry Potter book race and immediately opened the Lord of the Rings, puts on the film counterparts and watches them a little obsessively. Her hero-worship of Eowyn is endearingly fanatical. Grantaire likes Inception, Memento, the Sixth Sense, Fight Club, and Shutter Island. Grantaire is now banned from choosing films, after the fourth incident in which Combeferre is kept awake all night by Courfeyrac’s loud dissatisfaction with ambiguous endings. Combeferre likes David Attenborough documentaries a lot. Courfeyrac likes musicals to the surprise of no one. Bahorel likes romantic comedies, particularly anything from the nineties with Tom Hanks or Meg Ryan. Eponine really likes Titanic (or making Joly cry, the jury is out). Musichetta is strangely invested in the Fast and Furious franchise. Enjolras really likes V for Vendetta, and Grantaire nearly sprains something rolling his eyes at that one. Bossuet likes weird comedies. Jehan mostly ignores films in favour of mastering braille, and his quiet tapping punctuates every tense, dramatic cliffhanger and romantic moment they watch.

On those evenings, when the staff have all gone home, Javert and Valjean sit in the back of the room and watch the films with them—first at opposite ends of the couch, growing incrementally closer with each night.

&3


They all have nightmares.

Joly's leave him screaming, the kind of screams that yank everyone else from their sleep in cold sweats, like they’ve tripped going down stairs. Grantaire doubts Musichetta and Bossuet are getting any sleep at all, the hollows of their eyes are swollen and bruised-dark every morning.

Courfeyrac looks sick-white, blanched. Combeferre’s lips bleed, he bites them so hard, Cosette jumps and skitters easily, Bahorel talks like he’s lost all ability to volume control, Eponine snaps faster and more angrily at less, Feuilly rubs his fingers over his skin, up and down, and paces the corridor outside the bedrooms at night, back and forth.

Jehan is imperturbable, as always. Whatever he feels, he feels it deeper than any of them can see.

Enjolras sleeps sounder than he ever has, to Grantaire’s endless amusement. Tone deaf till the last, Enjolras would be the one to escape any kind of traumatic psychological consequence from a decade or so of imprisonment, if only out of pure spite.

&

It’s raining torrentially outside, battering Levant’s flower gardens and making the grass mushy and slippery. For Gavroche, this only enhances the fun of the gardens; he was last seen literally rolling in a mud puddle, yellow welly-boots up in the air, followed by an infinitely patient Valjean with a golf umbrella.

For the rest of them it’s an excuse to curl up under blankets in the room where all their “Normal-Kid” stuff is - the place Valjean calls ‘the den’ and Javert calls ‘their headquarters’. They play video games, read books and nap. Cosette woke up this morning not feeling well, so her request for a fifth screening of Lord of the Rings has gone un-disputed but much side-eyed. Jehan has taken to saying all of Gandalf’s lines in synch, complete with wise bass rumbling tone, and they’re not sure if he’s aware he’s doing it or not.

Grantaire is half asleep, head in Enjolras’s lap, feet in Courfeyrac’s, listening to the gentle rapping of the rain on the windows and Jehan’s keyboard and the quiet schtisht of Feuilly’s Rubik’s cube. Enjolras is reading a maths textbook over Grantaire’s face and every time Grantaire opens his eyes, the pages have inched closer to his nose.

The day slips away like that, without anyone really noticing. In the Institute, days had marked Beginnings and Endings. In London the days are an eternal white-grey, cool and soft and damp. Jehan thinks the air smells nicer. Joly thinks the dense, ever-present cloud is atmospheric, and Eponine says it’s the so depressing she wants to set herself on fire. The evening dimness slips into the room, and first Grantaire, then the rest become strangely difficult to see through the gloom. They turn on lamps and the walls go gold.

Grantaire eventually grows restless and wanders off upstairs to find his laptop. He’s gets a weird kind of hypnotic kick out of clicking on Wikipedia articles at random. It makes the world seem a lot bigger, and weirder, something which Grantaire finds strangely comforting.

He gets distracted reading about the Ottoman empire, and then again by Acathoe bats and the Eta Carinae nebula, and by the time he zones back into the real world, the clock in the upper right corner of his laptop reads 21:42.

He stares at it.

It’s late, is all. And they haven’t seen an adult since about midday, when Javert went to work.

Grantaire checks his phone and there’s no signal, not even for emergency calls. He should have— does have, usually—great reception, especially here at the top of the house.

There is a wishing well in one of the corners of Valjean’s garden, and its dark circle of water makes stones disappear into nothing. Grantaire feels like someone has dropped a stone into him.

The silence of the house feels wrong suddenly, and his heart takes off at a run at the same time as he does, down the stairs in slippery socked feet.

There’s no one in the kitchen. It’s black as the inside of Grantaire’s eyelids, except for the blinking 21:44 above the cooker in neon blue, which, yeah, thanks, he gets it.

He goes to the door of the den, and finds it locked.

&4


Grantaire is out the kitchen door in his socks, into a cold, drizzling wind that shakes him awake. He skirts the house, heads straight to the window of the den, feet sinking in the mud of the flower bed, rose thorns catching on his jeans. It’s lit up inside and the flock are standing with their backs to the window, facing something in the room. Grantaire knows that even if he was fully-visible at all times, he’d be invisible from the shiny black windows inside the house. He can see Cosette’s curls near the back, next to Jehan’s wizard’s coat.

Grantaire puts his nose right up to the glass, rubs a finger along it, and whispers Jehan onto the glass in a hush of warm air.

Jehan makes an abrupt move into Cosette’s shoulder, like he’s about to start crying. Behind her back, his fingers move with pale precision to the window latch, unlocking it silently. The second the window’s loose, Grantaire pulls it open, just barely, and slithers through. Jehan is wailing - convincing to strangers, probably, but absurd to his family, who’ve never so much as heard Jehan raise his voice. Cosette, in an even bigger departure from norm, is shouting, something about not giving him what he wants, and how their friends, who are powerful people, will make him pay if he does anything. No one turns around, but Grantaire notices stiff shoulders and head twitches, like now the whole flock knows something’s happening behind them. Something requiring some kind of noise cover.

Grantaire slips, quietly, into the shadows. Behind him, there’s an drop in the cool breeze; Jehan’s closed the window.

There’s a razer standing between the flock and the door to the den. He’s one of the bigger ones, Grantaire can’t remember his name—he’s distinctive for his usually round face. Under the puppy fat the outlines of his sharp, protruding facial bones and the shape of his long teeth are uncomfortably visible. In his clawed, heavy-boned hands is a gun, safety off.

“Your friends aren’t coming back this evening,” Fat-Face is saying, with difficulty. Those teeth must make monologuing a bitch, Grantaire reckons. “Didn’t you get their texts?” he laughs, obnoxiously.

Grantaire sees Courfeyrac actually go to take his phone out his pocket before Combeferre stills him, and rolls his eyes. He’s creeping slowly, his wet socks soaking footsteps into the carpet as he inches round the room. Enjolras’s eyes have glanced off him and away, guiltily, trying not to give the game away. Grantaire keeps moving, slowly, back to the wall, thinking his very darkest thoughts, pulling shadows round him like blankets.

Grantaire nearly has his back to the barricaded door when Fat-Face’s monologue breaks off and his gun comes up facing—who else—Enjolras.

 Grantaire has his small sharp kitchen knife to the razer’s throat so fast he feels like he’s lost time. It’s the kind of speed he’s always attributed to hands and burning things, the kind of movement without any thought between action and reaction. 

“I’ve done a lot worse for a lot less,” says Grantaire into Fat-Face’s ear with all the menace he’s got. It’s quite a substantial amount—what with the powers over pain and darkness, his menacing baseline is already pretty elevated. “Safety on, then drop the gun.”

The gun gets dropped, and then kicked, and it comes to rest at Combeferre’s feet. Combeferre looks at it the way most people look at large bug-eyed spiders. Enjolras picks it up.

“On your knees,” says Grantaire, digging the knife into Fat-Faces’s neck.

“So who’re you then?” says Fat-Face, “Wait, is it Grantaire?”

The silence he gets in reply makes him crow, “It is Grantaire! Man, Montparnasse wants you dead.”

It’s a stupid and ridiculously amateur-hour impulse that makes Grantaire’s hand twitch away from it’s firm press, and he regrets it immediately. Fat-Face throws his improbably bony skull back and Grantaire sees dark sparkles for an important few seconds that have the razer up and launching himself at Grantaire, claws and teeth first.

Grantaire hasn’t forgotten how to fight, is the thing, and this razer has nothing on Montparnasse’s speed and agility, which is itself in a different dimension of reality from Grantaire’s. Grantaire spins and slices and his edges are murkily indefinable. Three times, Fat-Face smacks thin-air hard enough to throw himself off balance. Grantaire darts away and back in, to kick and dig his knife in superficially. He catches sight of the Flock, on a half-crouched whirl, just a snapshot of Cosette’s wide eyes and Joly nearly out of his chair, and Bahorel, looking like he’s about to throw himself into the fray, and groans, “Get ou-t,” in complete disbelief. Because honestly, where the fuck is the evolutionary pressure to survive with these idiots? When a hit does land, Grantaire’s forearm snaps with such ridiculously little resistance that Fat-Face is brought up short and Grantaire’s attention is brought sharply back to the fight at hand.

“Brittle bones,” Grantaire explains wryly, pushing the bone back into a shape more closely resembling an arm. Fat-Face, still offering Grantaire a slightly horrified hiatus, gives him a look of utter revulsion. Grantaire expands on this with, “High pain tolerance,” then throws himself forwards in a powerful roundhouse kick that jack-knifes Fat-Face backwards over the sofa. Grantaire, reluctantly, tries to get closer for some kind of disarmament procedure and Fat-Face kicks him across the room with such force that Grantaire’s wings briefly try to respond as if he’s airborne, before he lands on the coffee table with a crunching shatter.

His wings gently complain at this treatment but are mostly out-shouted by the thundering pulse of pain in Grantaire’s right forearm. His knife, he realises, has clattered to the smooth, golden wood between them. They both make for it, though short of it already being in Fat-Face’s claws Grantaire will get there first - Fat-Face has the aerodynamics of a wheelie-bin. Grantaire kicks it under the couch and uses the momentum from his sprint to punch Fat-Face in his gruesomely bony face. Grantaire hears his ring and pinkie finger pop painfully and gives Fat-Face’s facial structure the look of morbid disbelief it deserves for it.

They stop and look at each other. Grantaire notices, for the very first time, that Fat-Face is burned along his whole left arm. He stares at it for longer than is strategically wise and gets a claw across his forearm for his trouble.

“What I don’t get,” says Grantaire, crouching, dripping blood onto the pale wooden floor. “Is what the fuck this plan is supposed to be? You were sent by the Institute? To what, single-handedly retrieve thirteen kids against their will? Even if the Institute hadn’t personally been training one of those kids to be a weapon for like six years, that is one fucktruck of a plan. Are they really that low on personnel now, or did you piss someone off?”

“Well there’s not so many staff around since you set some of them on fire,” says Fat-Face, eyes tracking every micro-flinch in Grantaire’s face. “But I was sent for recon.” Here Grantaire makes obvious with one eyebrow how suited he thinks Fat-Face is for covert reconnoissance. “Only once I got here, it seemed like you lot would be so pathetically easy to herd back, I might as well try, see what they gave me for it.”

In reply to Grantaire’s other eyebrow, he mutters, “Well I didn’t know about you did I?”

“You said Montparnasse wants me dead,” Grantaire says, without actually giving the words permission to exit his mouth. “That means he’s alive?”

Fat-Face opens his mouth and Jehan shouts, “No!” and Enjolras fires the gun into Fat-Face’s skull.

&

“Morals,” Grantaire shrieks at Enjolras in the kitchen, because he has reached it with a bang, the end of his tether, all at once. “I swear to fucking Satan himself, Enjolras, I sat you down and taught you morals, I have vivid memories of the whole surreal affair. What the fuck is wrong with you?”

“He was just going to go back to the Institute with our location, and then he’d come back with more of them and they’d take us back! And he broke your arm!” Enjolras is shouting. Valjean and Javert, silent, are sitting and standing respectively at the kitchen table. They haven’t offered any judgement on the whole thing yet because Grantaire has been occupying all sound waves with his verbal evisceration of Enjolras.

“Life isn’t game theory,” he screams at Enjolras, “You amoral sociopathic pedantic little shit! You do not kill people because it is convenient, am I coming through? Are you understanding? Would you like me to draw you a chart?!”

Enjolras is stonily unrepentant and Fat-Face is bleeding stickily from his skull all over Valjean’s floor and Grantaire still doesn’t know if Montparnasse is alive, god fucking damnit.

“I’d do it again,” says Enjolras simply, with a stubborn little head tilt.

Grantaire throws his hands up in the air in defeat because if he doesn’t he’s going to wrap them around Enjolras’s neck, and storms out of the kitchen with a bang so hard, Mr Hauche’s novelty “Seize the Hors D’Ouvres” magnet falls off the fringe and smashes. He stalks into the garden - down the hill with a ridiculous slipping and sliding that just makes him even angrier—to the back of the huge open expanse, where the garden grows wild and labyrinth. Grantaire stomps a wet path through the long grass, eventually coming to a stop at the place where two huge hedges meet perpendicularly, Alice-In-Wonderland style. He crouches down into the wet corner of foliage. Tiny twigs snatch at him and mud gets under his fingernails, and his jeans are soaked through in moments. Beyond his immediate metre radius, he can’t make out anything, and his favourite, eyes-closed kind of darkness collects in the details around him. He pulls it closer over his arms and head, as the cold ground pours miserable little shivers up his spine. His arm is still broken, pulsing painfully, swollen and red and violently hot against his chest.

He’s exhausted, flat out. He wants to leave, run away from everything in the whole world, but knows he won't. He wants to sleep but he doesn’t want to wake up tomorrow. He crouches in the dark, mind empty of just about everything, tense down to his toes.

He thinks about how hiding makes time stretch out in front like a tight rope, always on the edge of his eventual discovery. He wishes that his family wouldn't always try to find him, that he could disappear without leaving a ripple in the world around him. He’s thinking about this when Eponine, Feuilly, Bahorel and Jehan appear beside him and settle down to join him on the ground. Eponine tosses Grantaire’s jacket at him and it lands on his head.

“How the fuck did you find me?” Grantaire mutters into the smell of house-warm leather.

“This is literally the furthest you can get from the house without leaving the grounds,” says Feuilly blandly.

“Also,” says Bahorel, “There’s such a thing as too dark. And you’re sitting in it.”

“Also too wet,” mutters Eponine.

“At least it’s stopped raining,” Jehan says, pulling his wizards coat tight around him. He throws a blanket at Grantaire, which lands on his head again, and tucks the second one around himself and Feuilly. Eponine takes Grantaire’s off his head and spreads it over her own knees, leaving a small edge for Bahorel and Grantaire to share. 

There’s silence for a little moment, in which Bahorel drops an arm around Grantaire’s shivering shoulders, and Eponine wordlessly tucks herself into Grantaire’s armpit. He loves them a lot, he remembers. Remembers because love is one of those feelings that Grantaire doesn’t really feel all the time, like how he doesn’t feel socks and shirts and jeans, after they’ve been on for a moment or two. He thinks it’s probably like that for everyone but he figures he’ll ask Jehan about it some time, just to be sure.

“Did you really teach Enjolras morals?” Bahorel asks, audibly entertained.

“I did,” says Grantaire bitterly. “I even found him the list of the Universal Human Rights, to prove that morals are not subjective preferences but are in fact the necessary foundations of civilised life.”

“I mean, you can’t say he didn’t take anything on board,” says Feuilly reasonably.

“He’s so selfish,” says Grantaire, and he’s so tired he wants to cry. “He has the right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, but to hell with anyone else's place on to the mortal coil." 

 There’s silence for a beat following these words. Grantaire adds hesitantly, “You think I’m right, right?”

There’s an incriminating silence again, into which Jehan says philosophically, “It doesn’t really matter what we think, does it? It’s done.”

“You don’t think I’m right,” says Grantaire to Eponine. Eponine shrugs against Grantaire’s jaw.

“Cosette thinks you’re right. She seceded from the Tetrarchy in a huff along with the Unholy Trinity-”

“—Who are mightily pissed. Chetta really has your back, Taire-” comments Bahorel.

“I didn’t think Joly or Bossuet could frown,” says Feuilly. “They were scowling!”

“I don’t even think Courfeyrac and Combeferre agree, they just can’t stay angry at Enjolras,” Eponine says.

“Combeferre definitely doesn’t,” Jehan confirms. “Courfeyrac empathises with all sides.”

“Shock,” drawls Feuilly, “Awe.”

“Courfeyrac would empathise with a bug,” agrees Eponine.

“That’s Combeferre,” says Grantaire.

“Combeferre would talk to a bug,” says Feuilly.

“So somehow,” says Grantaire, with just the faintest waver of bitterness, “it’s the ones that don’t agree that are out here. In the cold. And the wet.”

“I’m neutral on the subject,” says Jehan, “I don’t necessarily agree with the decision but I can agree with the impulse.”

“The impulse to kill?” Feuilly says, giving Jehan side-eye.

“The impulse to protect the family,” says Eponine.

“There were a million other ways-” starts Grantaire.

“We know,” interrupts Jehan soothingly. “We know. As a measured decision, it doesn’t hold water. As an impulse, though…”

“I’m sorry. Eponine, I hate to butt in, but did you just refer to the flock as the family?” asks Feuilly.

“I hate the flock,” says Eponine for what could possibly be the hundredth time. “I get it, it’s a bird pun, I’m there. But it sounds like we’re over-enthusiastic Jehovah’s Witnesses or something. So lame.”

“And the family is better?” Feuilly says scathingly.

“It does lend our whole outfit a bit of a mafia-esque feel,” says Jehan mildly.

“We had a vote, Eponine,” gasps Bahorel, “Are you trying to buck the democratic process?”

“Yes,” she says shortly.

They sit bickering for a long, long minutes, until Grantaire starts chittering from a combination of adrenaline come-down, cold, and serious pain.

“We’re going inside,” Eponine informs him, hauling him up. “Valjean will be all pacey and Cosette will make our lives unpleasant.”

“And unpleasant life,” Feuilly muses, looking up at the sky, “What would that feel like, I wonder?”

The sky has started to lighten to a chalky pale pink, but details are still indistinguishable. Bahorel goes to take Grantaire’s good arm and misses, has to feel out the limb, half-blind, to link his own arm with it.

“You make spur-of-the-moment physical affection awkward,” Feuilly tells him seriously.

“Always the goal,” agrees Grantaire.

They arrive at the house to find an asleep-in-his-chair Valjean, Javert, whose narrowed eyes imply a multitude of wrath to come, and a very relieved Myriel, who hustles Grantaire off to the Tiny Hospital without saying anything, but with enough physical agitation to communicate the volume of worry he’s barely withholding.

&

By the time it comes for them to go to school, the whole of the summer has flitted by, taking with it the only dregs of sun that Britain has to offer and leaving soggy piles of leaves over every available flat surface.

Valjean has been pulling strings and making calls all summer to find thirteen places in various private London schools with facilities for children with physical, visual and orational disabilities, as well as International Curriculae to - as Javert puts it - “disguise the weird”. The schools are independent, posh but liberal, and the ground zero for the children of every ambassador and dignitary in London. The places found for them are suspiciously divided in terms of flock loyalties, something Grantaire is sure Javert is behind.

Grantaire, Enjolras, Feuilly and Combeferre get places in the Corinthian Collegiate Academy, a large but weirdly delicate pink Victorian building on the edges of Kensington. Courfeyrac, Bahorel, Bossuet and Joly are to attend the St Anthony’s High School for Boys, which is a more standard white, just north of the city centre, with big rugby pitches spread out behind it. Gavroche is going to the equivalent all-boys primary school down the street. Eponine, Cosette, Musichetta and Jehan are going to the Musain International School, a small, old building on the Thames, with facilities for Jehan and enough heirs to various political empires to make any potential heist very lucrative indeed.

They’re divided just about as far as they can be without full-scale insurrection taking place, and no further. Grantaire has to give Javert and Valjean a reluctant kind of credit for it—the lines of separation have been very carefully drawn. As it is, Courfeyrac pouts for a week in a quiet kind of way that’s somehow more obvious than his standard full-volume pouting; Musichetta gets grumpy and gives Joly and Bossuet the silent treatment; and Bahorel and Feuilly ramp up their quest to make things explode in expectation of a future shenanigan-cessation.

Grantaire tells Bahorel, multiple times, as they watch Feuilly pour mentos into a diet coke bottle from a safe-ish distance, that he will gladly switch out with him for St Anthony’s. He’s not looking forwards to spending his years in academia with Enjolras breathing down his neck, but it’s a bit too late to fix it now.

Joly and Bossuet are watching too, because they like explosions and Musichetta literally constitutes about 90% of their forward planning and common sense capacity. Without her, neither of them seem to see the problem with an empirically-proven human bad-luck magnet standing anywhere near things that are going bang. They’re both wearing the matching lost-puppy looks that they get when Musichetta is mad anywhere in their general vicinity.

“What,” says Javert, appearing behind them just as the the bottle starts to jiggle madly. “Are you doing now.” His timing for these sorts of things is really quite exceptional, Grantaire muses, as the Coke bottle detonates upwards, a gyser-like tower of foam shooting up into the sky. Javert, without once taking his narrowed eyes off of Feuilly and Bahorel, shoves Bossuet gently two steps to the right, causing him to narrowly avoid the downward trajectory of the soda-powered bottle cap. It’s visually pretty impressive, even if it’s actually a fair assumption that if there’s a wrong place to stand, Bossuet will be standing in it. It’s the statistical equivalent of betting that somewhere in the world, Courfeyrac is talking.

“Ssssc-ience?” Bahorel says hopefully.

“Inside,” Javert hisses.

&

School itself is bearable for Grantaire only because he refuses to let something as utterly banal and normal as school be unbearable for him. He doesn’t mind the subjects, he picked them, after all - the Corinthian is not the kind of place where you’re forced to do things like Home Economics if you don’t want to. Grantaire is a whiner by nature but even he can’t find a huge amount wrong in Language and Literature, Classical Greek, Philosophy, Design Technology and Visual Arts. He can’t even really complain about Mathematics, because if he does he gets a sullen, flat look from Feuilly.

Mostly, it’s the whole thing of it, it’s the Going To School. Waking up at the same 0630 time every day, getting the same train then subway line with a sleep-crusted Feuilly, a completely-unconscious Enjolras, and a book-faced Combeferre, waiting for bells to ring (more bells dictating his life, he thought he'd escaped that when Enjolras blew the Institute sky high). It’s queueing up for classes, sitting in classes, how skin-tight uncomfortable Grantaire feels, on his yellow plastic seat, hunched over his laminated-wood desk. Rules and repetition, don’t chew gum, fix your tie, tie back your hair if you’re going to wear it that long, and do up your laces, while you’re at it. Having to be silent while a teacher tells you the same thing you’ve already heard them say twenty times. Asking to go to the bathroom. Stupid worksheets with dopey cartoons which ask you the same thing again and again and again. Having to be on time, having to pay attention—or at least present a veneer of attention—timetables. Dragging himself home at the end of every day on those same sweaty, over-crowded tube and train lines, just to sit on the living room floor and do homework of all things. It drives Grantaire just about mad.

He responds the only way he knows how to, by being an asshole and doing exactly what he shouldn’t, spouting bullshit excuses and skipping classes and acing every test he turns up for and getting away with it because apparently Grantaire’s absence is just as noticeable as his presence, which is to say not at all and nine times out of ten if Feuilly mutters, “Here” at the start of class for him, not a single soul will notice.

Enjolras disagrees vocally with this tactic but the only class they actually share is Language and Literature, so he doesn’t have any proof to back up his suspicions re: Grantaire’s rampant truanting. Sometimes Grantaire gets the tube (or walks, so it’s not on his Javert-viewable Oyster card history) over to the Musain, and Jehan and Eponine will duck out of school (although not their respective Russian and Mandarin classes, which they inform him are too bitchingly hard to actually miss any of) and join him to investigate the tourist-filled coffee shops and museums along the Thames. If Eponine and Jehan don’t find the chance for escape, or else haven’t checked their phones, he’ll just hang out with some of the older Musain kids, who smoke and lounge round the back of the Academy.

Grantaire doesn’t find it easy to make friends, per se—he has to consciously ramp his invisibility thing right down to near zero for any kind of casual social interaction, and the vast majority of his charm consists of talking shit until people laugh—but he seems to be more comfortable with it than Enjolras, who’s surprisingly quiet and reserved outside of the flock. Some people—like Jehan—are quiet and reserved in a way which comes across as shyness. Unfortunately Enjolras, with his glowing, preternatural air of untouchable confidence, is perceived by the other students of the Corinthian as standoffish and arrogant, which even Grantaire—wildly familiar as he is with every one of Enjolras’s flaws—can acknowledge is unfair. Similarly Combeferre, who isn’t shy so much as he is bewildered by the small talk and jabber of other teenagers, is considered a loner by most of his classmates, even though they have the raw data that proves he’s more empathetic than should be humanly possible.

So somehow in their first year of high school, it’s Grantaire who makes friends. He gets the birthday party invitations and the high-fives and the little audiences in the lunch room when he goes on his brightly-coloured rants. The flock, as a general rule, tries to ‘fly under the radar’ as much as possible—a phrase Joly wields repeatedly and with great glee—so as to avoid anyone looking too closely at the bizarre setup of their lives. In deference to this, Grantaire doesn’t make any moves to reciprocate any real offers of friendship, but he’s aware of the possibility, and bemused by the backwardness of it all.

&

“We should come out,” says Enjolras decisively.

Grantaire is grimy in a way that is singularly indicative of being at school all day. His hands and left arm (and a bit of his chin) are smudged with blue biro. His dark hair is somehow both simultaneously frizzy and greasy, his tie is a tight, thin knot from absent tugging, his shirt is untucked and his left big toe is poking out from a hole in his sock. He’s lying on the living room sofa and he’s not moving any time soon, he’s decided.

“Anyone going to get that?” asks Feuilly wearily.

“It’s beneath you,” says Grantaire without opening his eyes.

“Low hanging fruit is still fruit right?”

“What do you mean, Enj?” asks Cosette patiently, because Combeferre apparently hasn’t yet deigned the conversation important enough to warrant putting down his book.

“We should reveal ourselves to the world as science experiments and tell the international community what the United States government has sanctioned against European children,” Enjolras says briskly.

There’s silence for a long moment. Grantaire mimes suffocating himself with a tasteful gold cushion. Joly pats his curls, then his fingers retreat quickly in understandable distaste.

“’Taire use shampoo,” he whines.

Grantaire bats at Joly blindly. “Later,” he says unconvincingly.

“Back to the matter at hand,” says Enjolras impatiently.

“No,” says Musichetta, kind but matter-of-fact, “We’re not doing that.”

“You can’t just decide for everyone-” Enjolras starts.

“Ah, I think she can, Enjolras,” says Combeferre apologetically. “I think in this situation we all have veto power.”

“It’s everyone’s safety you would be endangering,” agrees Musichetta.

“And it’s everyone’s safety that will continue to be endangered, for as long as the world doesn’t know what’s happened to us, what could still be happening, as far as we know.”

“It’s definitely still happening,” drawls Grantaire, eyes closed. “You shot one of the kids it was still happening to.”

The awkward silence that follows is completely expected; not one of them wants to touch that issue and Grantaire sort of hates them all for it.

“So we should tell the relevant authorities, then,” says Enjolras, sidestepping the issue with all the grace of Bossuet. “It’s the right thing to do. Otherwise we’re responsible for all the others who never got out.”

“Who would the relevant authorities be?” asks Joly philosophically, to no one in particular. “Is there like a watchdog for evil scientists? Audits for spooky government agencies? And who would even want that job? Seems like in event of suspicious, evil conspiracies, you’d be the first one to disappear in like… A boating accident or something.”

Everyone ignores him except for Bossuet who gives him a kind of seems legit to me nodding-shrug.

“Stop making us feel guilty for trying to protect ourselves,” snaps Eponine, significantly above her normal speaking volume. “We spent all our lives trying to get out of that fucking place, now you’re saying we should risk it all so we can feel good about ourselves? Gav’s only six, he deserves a normal goddamn life. He deserves to have pizza and toys and learn his times tables and all that stupid shit. Fuck off, Enjolras. The answer’s no.”

&5


Christmas in London is Grantaire’s favourite thing in the world. The mornings, when Grantaire is wandering through Kensington, are quiet and pink and pale. The evenings don’t so much arrive as linger from mid-afternoon onwards, cool and blue and sweet, and night is the best of all, the cold biting and fresh. The lights on the Thames blur and glow like the swirls behind his closed eyelids. Hyde park is a tourist cornucopia, loud and bright and sometimes literally spinning. The smells of roasting chestnuts, mulled wine and hot chocolate are everywhere. The flock adores the Winter Wonderland, and go in at least twice a week, with greater glee than any of the little kids around. They run from stall to stall using Joly’s wheelchair as a kind of forced-politeness battering ram (Courfeyrac, cheerily: “Everyone gets out the way, because if they don’t, they’re terrible people!” Enjolras, quietly: “Or they lose their shins.” ) They get wired on sugar mice, queue up for the huge chair-o-plane, and leave Javert looking like he’s got some kind of painful dental emergency coming on.

“Stop, moving,” he says, teeth gritted, gripping Gavroche by the shoulder of his little coat and Courfeyrac by his hood, even as Cosette sprints off towards a stall involving wire-frame angels. “Stop disappearing. This is like herding fish, Valjean I’m going to tag them.” Valjean gives him the look that roughly translates to, that is not a diplomatic thing to say to children who were previously imprisoned and used as science experiments, and Javert gives him that other look that says quite plainly, I do not give one flying fuck.

“If you’ll notice,” says Eponine smugly, “It is we, your problem children, who are standing still and behaving ourselves.”

Javert looks from Eponine to Bahorel, who is trying to put candyfloss up Feuilly’s nose without his noticing, then back again, face absolutely expressionless.

Jehan isn’t a huge fan of the strangely closed-in-noise, the massive jumble of smells and the jangle of different Christmas tunes playing over each other. He’s sheltering between Bahorel and Eponine, gnawing on a stick of rock, scowling at people who bump into him.

“I want a white stick,” he mutters.

“You don’t need a white stick?” says Feuilly, not absolutely confidently, because Jehan keeps his problems closer to his chest than even Grantaire, but he doesn’t seem to have any difficulty with navigating objects. It’s one of his more unsettling traits.

“I want a white stick so I can hit people with it,” Jehan clarifies.

“Oh, it must suck for you, people always bumping into you,” says Grantaire acidly, from his position deep inside Enjolras’s personal space. Crowds, fairs and supermarkets always end up more like assault courses for Grantaire—he never leaves Camden or Greenwich without a few minor injuries—but he’s found if he sticks really really close to Enjolras he can kind of wander around in his aura of visibility.

This most recent snarking leads to Grantaire losing track of what he and Enjolras have been hitherto bickering about, without losing any of the associated irritation, an awkward position that Grantaire finds himself in all too often. Enjolras has that smug I’ve-won expression on his face like he knows exactly what Grantaire’s done. “When I grow up I’m going to vote Tory,” Grantaire says, just to be incendiary. Grantaire’s hand is in Enjolras’s pocket along with Enjolras’s, ostensibly to keep warm.

Getting Christmas presents for all thirteen of his family stretches the very limits of Grantaire’s tolerance for crowded areas filled with frantic shoppers, so he orders in bulk online in November and gives everything to Javert to hide (because Javert treats Grantaire hiding things by himself with extreme and understandable suspicion and Christmas presents are not worth the headache). But the rest of the flock are still picking up odds and ends from various stalls, or attempting to, at any rate. Enjolras and Musichetta have just plunged into an argument with a stall owner who has loud opinions on Britain’s immigration policy, which even Grantaire knows to be factually incorrect.

Grantaire wanders off out of Enjolras’s sphere of visibility and catches up with Bossuet and Joly, who’ve given up terrorising London’s tourist population and are watching Courfeyrac and Cosette hang off a merry-go-round at frankly alarming angles. Courfeyrac is shrieking with joy and Cosette’s hair is a frizzy golden mess in the wind and the glowing lights.

Grantaire finds himself smiling so wide it hurts.

Joly’s smiling too, but that’s not much of an indicator of anything. Grantaire looks at Bossuet, who’s frowning, sadly, at Joly.

“You want to go on?” Grantaire asks, over the sound of Courfeyrac whooping as he swings past.

“There’s no access,” says Joly, trying for cheerful and failing by a hair.

“What, a ramp?” asks Grantaire.

“Yeah. And insurance, he says.”

“Fuck that,” Grantaire says, honestly surprised that abiding by the rules would occur to someone in the same family as Bahorel.

“Don’t tell Chetta,” says Joly, suddenly urgent. “She’ll start an argument and I don’t want to make anyone unhappy. It’s Christmas.”

Grantaire scrunches his face in utter disdain, “Yeah, I’m going to get Enjolras over too, we’ll start a petition. You won’t get on the ride this year but we’ll be fighting for wheeled teens everywhere so it’ll be worth it - seriously Joly? We’ve met before, right?”

Bossuet says quietly, “You have a plan?”

Grantaire’s just whistles, shrilly, the first four notes of Beethoven’s fifth symphony. A few minutes later Bahorel and Feuilly materialise out of the crowd.

“Oooh, are we doing shenanigans?” asks Bahorel eagerly, “I love shenanigans.”

“We’re getting Jollllly on the ride,” says Grantaire cheerfully.

Bahorel crouches to let Joly clamp his arms around his neck, and hoists him onto his back. They wait in the queue and when they reach the front, the guy in the luminous yellow safety jacket shakes his head at Joly, makes no offence but no kind of gesture. Bahorel shrugs, grins a shit-eating grin, pushes through the crowd of kids and hops onto the emptying ride. The guy scowls, unlocks the door to his little ticket booth, and follows him.

Grantaire lifts the guy’s keys right out of his back pocket, ensconces himself in the ticket booth, turns the key and presses the green button.

The ensuing madness (Feuilly, Cosette and Courfeyrac leaping from horse to horse, whooping wildly; Bahorel running backwards round the spinning merry-go-ride, tailed by the angered ride operator; Bossuet in fits of giggles, hanging off a plastic lion; Grantaire making polite I’m sorry, can you speak up? faces at the dozen or so park officials now hammering on the window of the security booth) is spectacular enough to get them banned from the Hyde Park Christmas Festival forever, grounded for an indeterminately long period of time, and very nearly gets Grantaire arrested until Javert turns up, forehead vein the size of a medium-sized tree branch, violently trailing a sullen Enjolras who apparently has just overturned the “racist bigot”’s stall with the help of Musichetta.

The only ones to escape the breathtaking spectacle of Javert’s ensuing wrath are Eponine, Gavroche and Jehan, who—everyone Is very aware—are innocent only through sheer lack of proximity to the rule-breaking, rather than moral superiority.

But even as Javert snarls about how, “Normal children can be left alone for three minutes in public spaces without being charged for reckless endangerment,” Grantaire’s mind rests on the image of Joly—belted onto a plastic pearly-white unicorn, leaning back, wide eyes reflecting coloured bulbs and stars, smile wider than he’s ever seen it—and can’t bring himself to even put in pretence of remorse.

Not-remorseful shifts to obnoxiously gleeful when it turns out that one of their entertained audience—and there were many—was a city copy editor. This is made apparent when Enjolras’s beloved Guardian runs a fluff piece on the ‘Kids Christmas Hyde Park Hijack’ and the power of non-violent protest through disobedience.

&

With the help of the starter origami pack Combeferre bought him for Christmas, Feuilly creates a zoo of colourful, insubstantial animals. These are left all over the house and garden in increasingly strange places: cereal boxes, underwear drawers and—bewilderingly and on more than one occasion—Cosette’s hair. Lying on his front, folding little squares of blue and red and yellow, Grantaire realises it’s the happiest he’s seen Feuilly for some time. Unlike Grantaire, Eponine and Jehan, Feuilly has never had a natural propensity towards melancholy, but somehow his mild, quiet unhappiness has slid under Grantaire’s radar all this time. Feuilly is normally Bahorel’s domain, as much as Enjolras is Grantaire’s, but if the problem is with Bahorel, then it’s likely Feuilly won’t have spoken to anyone. Grantaire decides with extreme reluctance that he probably should engage with the problem (he swears he sees Combeferre give him an approving look for that thought, which is a little unsettling). Two days after Christmas—when Bahorel is still warring with Musichetta for second place in his newest video game and Jehan’s fingers haven’t stopped moving over his Very Limited Edition braille e-reader even to eat meals—Grantaire drags Feuilly into the city to the Tate Modern.

“So. What’s wrong?” Grantaire asks him over seasonally inappropriate ice-cream, in the gallery cafe. He’s not great with subtle conversational segues.

Feuilly looks at him, then at his ice cream, and then around the cafe. “Nothing?” he says hesitantly. “Should there be?” He glances at his ice cream again, warily. Since Bahorel has on more than one occasion, hidden peas in Feuilly’s ice cream, Grantaire can see his reasoning.

He rolls his eyes, “This is the first time I’ve seen you smile in months. What’s up with you?”

Feuilly’s cheer slides away like the London sun under clouds. “Nothing,” he mutters, much less convincingly this time.

Grantaire doesn’t even grace that with a reply, just gives it the face it deserves.

“It’s really nothing important,” he says testily. “Bahorel thinks I’m being a fucking idiot. That’s how you know I’m hitting new lows.”

“You still have about 20000 leagues to go before you hit me, Feu,” says Grantaire. “I’m down there with Atlantis and those creepy fish with the teeth. Tell me your woes.”

Feuilly scowls at the table and says, moving his mouth as little as anatomically possible while still allowing for the emission of sound, “I can’t do maths.”

Grantaire squints at him, applies a concentrated effort into taking that seriously and says levelly, “And this is a problem.”

“I really, really can’t do it. I keep failing all the tests. And all the other subjects are too difficult as well. I work just as hard as Cos and ‘Ferre, but I just don’t understand anything. I get marked low even on the homework I think I’ve done well in. I stare at maths questions all night, I get Combeferre to explain them and they make sense at the time, but as soon as he’s gone I’m lost again. I don’t understand anything.” Feuilly sounds absolutely miserable and Grantaire flails for comfort.

“You know it doesn’t really matter though, right?” he tries. “They set all these tests and stuff, but they don’t mean anything… Any more than the things they did at the Institute mean anything. They don’t, like, determine your worth.”

“It’s easy to say that when you find it all easy,” says Feuilly, which Grantaire allows with a shrug. “It’s shit feeling stupid, and not knowing what you’re supposed to be doing. Nothing makes sense. I hate it. And…”

Grantaire raises his eyebrows, “And?”

“And the worst is that you all find it so easy,” Feuilly’s mouth is turned down in a little moue and Grantaire resists the urge to hug him because Feuilly doesn’t really like acknowledging feelings. He looks like he’s about to go into anaphylactic shock as it is. “I’m like, jealous, and it’s so weird and horrible. I’ve never been jealous of anyone before. Especially not in the flock. Or Bahorel. He gets an A and I don’t feel happy for him? What’s that about?”

Grantaire rolls his eyes, “Feu, you’re allowed to not be perfect. You’re allowed to not be good at stuff and get annoyed at the flock and fail tests.”

“It means I’m not trying hard enough,” says Feuilly. “But I only have so many hours in a day to try, you know?”

“You are trying hard enough,” says Grantaire, who regards applying effort for more than an hour with a very special kind of horror.

“Don’t say that!” snaps Feuilly right back. “If that’s true then it means I’m just really, really stupid. And I don’t want to be stupid, ‘Taire. I don’t feel stupid!”

“You’re not stupid!” says Grantaire, voice rising, “Don’t you think we’d tell you if we thought you were stupid? You think Eponine would have let that go unsaid?”

Feuilly huffs and his patience with the whole sharing-his-feelings experience abruptly runs out. “Lets go see the Turner stuff,” he says. Grantaire nods and talks about Enjolras’s new quest to save the whales because he’s all about letting people ignore things.

“That picture reminds me of you,” says Feuilly, in a truly Eponinesque display of snark. Grantaire eyes the painting warily, “Gloomy and indistinct?”

“Yip,” drawls Feuilly.

Grantaire makes a mental note to never make Feuilly talk about his feelings again.

&

They all, with the exception of Gavroche, turn fourteen that year. None of them bother with the exact dates but Javert loudly and frequently bemoans the change. Feuilly, Combeferre and Bossuet grow like gangly, clumsy weeds, Cosette’s acne gets so bad that Eponine is on disciplinary record for having punched a boy at their school for making comments about it, they all eat even more, sleep whenever they’re not doing anything else, and bicker like they breathe. Feuilly’s temper runs short, Eponine physically and verbally eviscerates anyone stupid enough to cross her path and finds everyone in the flock except Combeferre to be irreproachably annoying. In her defence, she says, making the same pun seventeen times during the one day, laughing harder each successive time, and refusing to shut up for even a moment while people are trying to do their homework, means that Bahorel, Courfeyrac and Joly aren’t just singularly fucking annoying, but also terrible people who she hates with an undying passion. This, shouted at an abashed looking Feuilly, who had only gone downstairs for a third helping of toast, does not go over well with Mrs Hauche, who does not approve of swearing in her kitchen, thank you very much. Enjolras and Grantaire’s antagonism escalates into an interminable argument, with very little reason, cessation, or motivation. Although for most of the flock, any kind of conversation above speaking volume between Enjolras and Grantaire has stopped even registering to their cerebral cortexes, Jehan has no tolerance for siting listening to them, it upsets Cosette, and in a worrying—when Grantaire takes the time to consider it—development, Combeferre now regards them with discomfort.

 Gavroche seems to think they’ve all gone absolutely mental, and takes as little to do with them as possible.

Grantaire does his best to explain it to Myriel during one of the informal “chats” that the doctor springs on Grantaire every so often. The shifting, unfamiliar dynamics, the flock being at each other’s throats, the quiet getting quieter and the loud getting unbearably so, Cosette’s sudden preoccupation with being ugly, Eponine’s viciousness, Feuilly’s regular maths-related emotional breakdowns, Grantaire’s own complete inability to stop annoying Enjolras when he’s bored (which is always) and Enjolras’s terrible reciprocal habit of using Grantaire as an emotional release valve whenever he’s upset (which is nearly always).

“It’s completely normal,” says Myriel with his kind smile.

“It’s completely fucking miserable,” says Grantaire.

“Some of you are doing well,” points out Myriel.

It’s true, Grantaire supposes, that Musichetta seems happy enough, with friends in her classes and a fashion blog that she’s more or less obsessed with. Courfeyrac, with his freakish bell-curve-breaking intrapersonal intelligence, is made for high school, and according to Joly he just about has the run of St. Anthony’s. Bossuet seems happier, more settled, and more likely to burst into uncontrollable bouts of giggles than any other human Grantaire has ever met. (He is also the sole generator of about 90% of the puns in circulation around the house, much to Eponine’s abject disgust.) Combeferre—potentially the only one among them with anything close to a well-developed psyche—copes as well as he always does, secure in his own head. Bahorel, who had weird N.Bs in his Institute file about emotional resilience and endurance, is the same as he has always been, to a spooky but nevertheless comforting extent. In total, it’s only about half of them that are undergoing some kind of slow-motion emotional meltdown, which Grantaire supposes is better than to be expected.

“You should ask Combeferre what his theories were, when he came in last week,” says Myriel, with a deeply amused grin.

When Grantaire does ask, Combeferre goes an uncharacteristic pink. “I thought it was the Institute,” he says, embarrassed. “I thought they were maybe giving us some kind of mind-altering substance, somehow. Or they’d programmed some kind of self-destruct switch into our brains.”

”You know Myriel says…”

“Myriel says puberty, yes,” says Combeferre, wrinkling his nose to keep his glasses sitting in place. “But how was I to know it was going to be so drastic?”

After Grantaire’s finished laughing at him, he asks Combeferre, “What’s with all the concerned glances you’re throwing my way recently? Just worried about the possible presence of narcotics in my blood stream?”

“No,” says Combeferre simply. Because none of them ever really lie to each other out of Eponine-enforced habit, even if in retrospect they’d prefer to.

It’s not the answer Grantaire is expecting, anyway. “Then why?”

Combeferre shrugs and looks down at his book distractedly.

 “Hey,” says Grantaire, swinging up to sit on Courfeyrac’s desk (which he knows is Courfeyrac’s by virtue of there being a feather boa wrapped around the desk light). “I have it on good authority that you gave Eponine advice just last night. What’s with the lack of egalité, Ferre? I’m appalled.”

“Taire, you don’t even take your own advice, why on earth would take mine?”

“You’ll only give advice if there’s a guarantee of it being taken?” asks Grantaire socratically.

Combeferre’s smile turns up at one side and his eye-lids look particularly sleepy beneath his thick glasses and even thicker brows. In a response that Grantaire is sure is Pavlovian, he finds Combeferre’s face inherently comforting

“I think you should make more friends,” says Combeferre finally, avoiding his eyes. “Outside of the flock.”

“Why?” says Grantaire, actually taken aback.

“You and Enjolras,” says Combeferre carefully. “Have the potential, I think, to make each other very unhappy. I think some distance might make it better.”

Cosette has started giving him sad puppy looks whenever his teasing makes Enjolras snap or walk away, and he thinks she’s probably on the same blame train as Combeferre, which isn’t fair. 

“You know I’m a loud-mouthed asshole to everyone, right? Historically, the only person I am ever nice to is Enjolras. Everyone needs to stop pandering to him and his insistence that I’m just about enacting the third reich upon him, emotionally, because I’m not. I listen to him talk about whales and tax policies and the Tories. At length. Who else would I do that for? No one, Ferre. I can’t help that he doesn’t actually like who I am as a person.”

Combeferre waits patiently till he’s sure Grantaire’s finished. “Correct me if I’m wrong, Grantaire, but your only problem with Enjolras—” he raises his voice over Grantaire’s comment about the problems between Enjolras and himself numbering at last count in the high thousands, “—Is that you need to not be controlled and Enjolras has a tendency to be controlling. You are, in actual fact, the kind of person that will break a rule only because it exists to be broken. You’re wild. But you resent that this upsets Enjolras.”

“And Enjolras does like you,” he adds with a sigh, before Grantaire can jump in, “You have to stop perceiving any negative feelings towards you as criticism of your entire person. Enjolras can like you better than anyone else in the world and still not like the way you act sometimes.”

Grantaire pulls at his hair, “I just… Why does it bother him so much? So I don’t go to class and stuff, whatever, why does it matter?”

Combeferre gives him a resignedly patient look, which pretty much defines his entire person. “You don’t like to care about things, and Enjolras perceives caring about things as the most significant part of his personhood. If you’ll notice, Enjolras doesn’t care at all if you break insignificant rules, he’ll actively participate if he thinks he’s doing the right thing. What upsets him, is you not caring about things things he considers very important. Like yourself, your education, and yes, I suppose, the Tory government. But the idea that you’re making life more difficult for yourself is what upsets him the most. And when he gets upset—he tries to problem solve, and yes, I agree, it’s often controlling, particularly when it involves you.”

Grantaire can’t think of an immediate argument for that (which is why he generally avoids debating with Combeferre, as a rule) so he sits and thinks about it instead.

“That’s… Actually, probably… Yeah.”

“Yeah,” says Combeferre gently.

“You’re not going to tell me to, like, care? Or whatever?”

“No, ‘Taire. I’ll never fault you for not caring enough,” says Combeferre gently, and to Grantaire’s absolute horror, he now feels like he’s got something sharp stuck in his throat.

Grantaire scrambles to find the original thread of the original conversation. “So, by distance you mean…”

“Friends outside the flock, friends just for you.”

“I thought we had a flock-wide agreement about how all non-bird-people are not to be trusted?”

“I know,” says Combeferre frowning slightly. “But I think— I think maybe that was a mistake. I think that kind of attitude… It’s bad for us. All of us, not just you two. We can’t be everything to each other. It’s not… Well, ‘safe’ isn’t the word but I don’t quite know what is. Healthy?”

“So, what, you’ll be replacing Courfeyrac with a newer model any day now?” Grantaire asks, eyebrow raised. “I get your point but there’s no way any of them will go for it. I show up with a BFF bracelet that Enjolras doesn’t have the pair of, you watch how quickly I lose my internal organs.”

Combeferre actually laughs at that, and shrugs, “At some point or another you’re going to have to do something that isn’t purely for Enjolras’s benefit. Just statistically. Why not make it in your own best interests?”

The problem with Combeferre, thinks Grantaire, is that he’s literally never wrong.

&

“Seriously, what is with your names?” says one of the guys from Grantaire’s Greek class. They’re in the McDonald’s on Kensington high street with what feels like the rest of the city’s high school student population. There’s general laughter from everyone who goes to the Corinthian—Grantaire guesses this is a common source of comedy in the school, which, fair enough. Their first names are all French surnames. It’s unmistakably strange.

Grantaire, leaning back in his plastic stool, McFlurry spoon sticking out his mouth, says seriously, “We’re in a cult.”

“My sister goes to the Musain, she says there’s even more of you there!”

“We are pretty rampant,” admits Grantaire.

“Seriously,” says the guy, who Grantaire’s 79% sure is called Dominik, “How many siblings do you have?”

Grantaire makes a show of counting on his fingers, “Twelve. But, like, none of them are related.”

There are general shouts of, “Twelve???” all around.

But apparently Dominik is a persistent bastard, “That doesn’t explain the names,” he says. “Especially if you’re not related.”

“We’re all originally from a French foster home and we took our birth parents’ last names really early on because too many of us were called Jean.”

Grantaire’s brain does a rare and genuine self-congratulatory round of applause for the general speed and quality of that lie.

“Huh,” says Dominik, seemingly appeased.

“So wait,” says one of the guys whose sister goes to Musain. “Who in their right mind adopted, what, thirteen random French kids and then sent them to the best prep schools in London?”

Grantaire thinks this guy must either be really into asking awkward questions, or he’s super concerned with the Amis family’s lack of aristocratic right to superior education. Either way, Grantaire is not endeared.

“Some trillionaire adopted us and gave us the whole fairytale life thing,” says Grantaire airily, “It happened like nine years ago, man, I don’t know what to tell you.”

“Who’s the trillionaire?” asks the guy suspiciously. Grantaire thinks his name might actually be Guy, which is the kind of name Joly and Bossuet were born to make people regret, it pushes the pun-opportunity baseline way up.

Grantaire gives the people around him a one-eyebrow-raised, Is this guy for real? look that makes everyone laugh except the Guy himself. He just looks kind of sulky.

“I could tell you,” says Grantaire, utilising his hard-earned Pop Culture Knowledge for good. “But then I’d have to kill you,” Everyone laughs again, and Guy stops asking stupid questions, and Grantaire checks his phone.

He has four missed calls from Enjolras. No, wait. Five.

“Yeeees?” drawls Grantaire, fending Dominik away from his McFlurry with his spoon.

“Where are you?” asks Enjolras sharply.

“McDonalds,” says Grantaire, “don’t tell Jehan.” Jehan is vegan and has Feelings about animal rights, and while Grantaire agrees with him in theory and is happy to eat whatever ethical food Mr Hauche feeds them in practice, he doesn’t give enough of a shit to convince a hoard of fourteen year old boys that Meat is Murder.

“Which McDonalds?”

“Ehh, the Kensington one?”

“Why?”

“I’m eating Enjolras. Literally what else would I be doing in a McDonalds… Fuck off Dominik!” Grantaire removes Dominik’s fry from his ice-cream and makes to shove it up the offending party’s nose.

“Dominik? The guy from our English class?”

“You’re in my English class?” Grantaire asks Dominik, who rolls his eyes hard. 


 


“Yes,” says Dominik, stealing back his fry and eating it.

“Yes,” confirms Grantaire.

“Why are you out with him?” says Enjolras, audibly losing patience with Grantaire. “And why didn’t you tell any of us that’s where you were going?”

“I texted Javert, Enjolras,” says Grantaire. He did, too, but only because for all his faux-confusion he had expected exactly this conversation to occur. “I didn’t realise I needed your permission.”

“You don’t need my permission,” shouts Enjolras, without a trace of irony.

The others are already starting to give him looks, like, why is your brother being weird, so Grantaire cuts Enjolras off, “Okay, so we’re good then,” and hangs up. Enjolras is going to murder him, but it can’t be helped. If necessary he can always blame Combeferre.

“Your brother is so weird,” says a guy called Anton, and Grantaire momentarily checks his internal monologue to find out if mind-reading has been added to his supernatural skills set. But no, it looks like Enjolras is weird is just the national consensus.

“Eh, aren’t we all?” says Grantaire.

“Yeah, but he’s…” the guy trails off with a look of distaste.

“Not a fan?” asks Grantaire innocently, but with the slightly mad lilt to his smile that Joly calls his I dare you face. Mostly it’s only ever Enjolras who does. Dare, that is.

Dominik rolls his eyes again and diverts the conversation, “My older sister’s a basket-case. She painted her whole room black and her boyfriend says he’s a vampire and that he’s pledged his soul to Satan.”

“Wait,” says Grantaire frowning. “You haven’t pledged your immortal soul to our Lord of Darkness?” Everyone laughs again, and Anton subsides with a sullen look. Dominik meets Grantaire’s eye and makes a face, prompting him to snicker and look away. It’s nice to have someone on your side in a conversation, Grantaire decides. The flock’s loyalties are always split and confused and well to be fair. Sometimes you just want someone to laugh at stupid people with. Someone who’s on your side for no other reason than they like you better.

&

Grantaire makes new friends and sits with them at break and lunch times, when Enjolras, Combeferre and Feuilly are in the library. He wishes that Feuilly would come with him, and give himself a break from the endless obsessing about grades and homework, but Feuilly edges in just behind Enjolras and Musichetta in terms of murderous stubbornness and Grantaire is Not Hopeful.

Instead, Grantaire goes to movies with people who don’t know his every fracture and fault-line. He chats and laughs with people who didn’t see him lose his baby teeth, and his smile, and his wings. He goes to parties and hangs out at friends’ houses and gets to know mums and nannies. He still sits with Enjolras in English but he leans against Dominik’s desk right up until the bell, snickers over notes that get tossed onto his desk. He relishes childishness, stupid laughter, removes himself as far as possible from the deathly seriousness of the tetrarchy, from Eponine’s anger and Jehan’s graveyard chill.

It’s spooky, the first time he sees Dominik upset over some argument with his step-dad—outside of vague sympathy, he’s untouched. Cosette’s self-consciousness makes Grantaire feel vulnerable and sickly soft, Feuilly’s frustration itches hot, Enjolras’s wild emotions send him whirling. He isn’t used to seeing people feel things without feeling them, somehow, himself, through some spiky awful feedback system. There’s no such thing as sympathy in the flock, only a kind of all-consuming empathy. Grantaire for the first time appreciates how hellish Combeferre’s particular skill must be.

This strategic retreat is how he fails to notice Joly’s complete psychological breakdown.

<

&6


Grantaire gets home at 8pm to find the house in complete chaos. He (very) narrowly misses Musichetta’s phone as it whizzes past his ear.

“Where the fuck were you?” Musichetta screams at him.

Grantaire, entirely reasonably, stumbles half a foot backwards, drops into a crouch and throws his hands up in supplication.

“Why isn’t your phone on, Grantaire?” Musichetta shouts. “Why the fuck weren’t you answering?”

There’s a moment of silence during which Grantaire’s brain recognises the presence of a non-rhetorical question. “I… ran out of charge?”

Courfeyrac is cross-legged on the floor and hasn’t yet looked up from his phone. Jehan is folded on the couch next to Cosette, who is crying. Enjolras is mid-pace, eyes somehow conveying both fury and weak-kneed relief in Grantaire’s general direction. Combeferre is sitting terrifyingly still, head in hands. Bossuet, who is also in tears, says, “Have you seen Joly?” and Grantaire’s stomach, already somewhere in the region of his knees, drops through the floor, leaving a horrible sickening emptiness.

No Grantaire mouths, because he’s lost his voice somewhere, and shakes his head. He glances at Eponine, who’s curled between Bahorel and Feuilly, biting her nails till they bleed.

“What happened?” he asks, voice choked.

“He wasn’t at the gates when school got out,” says Bahorel, glancing around for confirmation. “We waited for ages, then went back in to find him. Someone Courfeyrac knows in his fourth period class said he wasn’t there for English. We figured he’d gone home sick and forgot to tell any of us, but…”

“He’s not here,” says Cosette. “Levant says no one’s been in all day.”

Grantaire doesn’t bother asking if they’ve told Valjean and Javert. It’s not in the Flock’s instincts to look for outside help, it’s the primary reason they were stuck in the Institute for as long as they were. When crisis hits, they close ranks without question. Enjolras is body-warmth close to him, fist closed in the Merino wool of Grantaire’s school jumper.

“I called the taxi company,” says Courfeyrac. “They said they haven’t picked up anyone from the school all day, let alone anyone needing the cars with ramps.”

“That means he either left in his chair or-” Bahorel says, cutting himself off. Feuilly looks vaguely ill.

“Did anything else happen today?” asks Grantaire. Musichetta gives him a look of such unparalleled fury that Grantaire’s hands shoot back into the air, “I mean, to Joly. Did anything seem strange? Would there be any reason for him wandering off?”

Bahorel looks to Bossuet, who says, “I had a fit?”

“But it wasn’t bad or anything,” says Courfeyrac, frowning. “It was a tiny one. And Joly’s seen Bossuet fit a thousand times.”

“His phone’s off,” says Eponine with audible frustration. “He turned it off at the school so we can’t even track it or anything. But there’s only so far he can get, I mean… London isn’t exactly Access Friendly.”

As Grantaire listens, he pulls his school-issued iPad out and brings up a map of London on it. He hands it to Enjolras without a word, raises an eyebrow, and glances at Cosette. Enjolras’s eyes light up.

“Cosette, close your eyes,” Enjolras says, striding over and kneeling in front of her.

Cosette closes her eyes immediately, without question. Enjolras sets the iPad down on her lap. “Point somewhere.”

She hesitates, eyes still closed, “I don’t know Enj. I don’t think it’ll work. I can win coin tosses, but—”

“Cos,” Enjolras says gently, “Just point.”

Cosette’s finger comes down.

“If the Institute has him, he’ll already be out of London,” says Feuilly, whisper-level, like he’d rather the words didn’t exist.

“Ferre doesn’t think the institute has him,” says Grantaire, peering over Enjolras’s shoulder to see the exact point on the Thames smudged with Cosette’s fingerprint, “And if they did have him, Cosette would be in a much worse shape. I think he’s just wandered off.”

Everyone looks to Combeferre for an explanation and he slumps even further, “I don’t know why I think it. I just… I think I’ve missed something, with Joly. I think I’ve been stupid. I just get so distracted. I don’t know, I’m sorry.”

“Joly wouldn’t do that,” says Musichetta, “He knows how much that’d worry us.”

“If you’re going to be worried about something,” says Jehan. “Personally I’m more worried about whatever it is that Combeferre thinks he’s missed.”

“We’re not going to be worried,” says Enjolras decisively, “We’re going to find him.”

&

They find Joly on the riverside walk South of the river, between Tower bridge and London bridge, bundled up in his yellow duffel coat, watching lights flicker on the black Thames. He turns around as they approach, smiles instinctively, genuinely. His face is splotchy white and red, tears are caught up in his eyelashes and frozen on his cheeks.

“Sorry,” is the first thing he says, then, “oh god, I’m so sorry Chetta.” His smile crumples, like Feuilly’s paper birds, and Grantaire can see, vividly, how Combeferre missed whatever is broken underneath Joly’s effusive joy.

Bossuet drops to his knees, lets his head fall against Joly’s skinny legs; Musichetta grips Joly’s shoulder and stares at the ground, breath stuttering out in white clouds. The lights of the buildings around them are rainbow hued, and make the whole thing seem surreal.

Combeferre stays well back, looking devastated, Courfeyrac is tucked in on himself, silent, Enjolras’s hand is white-tight on Grantaire’s, Bahorel has never looked less sure. Musichetta and Bossuet don’t move, or speak. In the end, only Cosette steps forward. Grantaire remembers Jehan saying to him once that he thought Cosette was the bravest of all of them, which, for the first time, Grantaire sees. He knows now that he’s standing there that he doesn’t have it in him to go any closer. Joly has the awful air of someone on a wire, and Grantaire’s too scared to move.

“Joly,” Cosette says softly.

Joly looks up at her. His face is a shifting mosaic of misery.

“Darling,” she says. “Breathe. We’ve got you. Now you’ve got to breathe.”

The shuddering noise that follows sounds like the air is been ripped from Joly’s chest. Musichetta’s face twists.

“Good,” says Cosette encouragingly. “Now again. In and out.”

“I feel like I’m going to die,” says Joly, with a shaky laugh

“I know, darling,” says Cosette, over Bossuet’s low sob. “But you’re not. We won’t let you. Breathe.”

Joly cries all the way home in the taxi, with Cosette in the seat across from him, insistent, “Breathe.”

&

Grantaire never asks Joly about that night, or any of the nights that come after it. He doesn’t ask about the medication or the counselling or what, exactly, panic attacks feel like. He figures that some things are best kept between you and yourself, in the layer between your skin and your soul. After all, Grantaire would rather tear his own face off than talk about the dark tangled horror that keeps him up at night. Unfortunately, and much to Grantaire’s displeasure, in the year they all turn fifteen Myriel starts to ask him questions that look more and more like they’re pointed at the awful noise in Grantaire’s head.

“Are you happy, Grantaire?” asks Myriel.

“Sure,” Grantaire drawls. “I’m content, merry—chipper, even. Some have gone as far as to say joyful.”

Grantaire has slept seven and a half hours total in the last three nights; he’s gotten into a kind of obsessive habit of counting the hours he spends lying stone-still next to Enjolras’s snuffly warm body. He’s exhausted in a full-on limbs-of-lead kind of way, and he has very little patience for Myriel’s questioning his level of existential delight.

“Grantaire, you look exhausted,” says Myriel frankly. “Is something getting you down? Or keeping you up at nights?”

“Christ,” says Grantaire, avoiding eye contact. “I’m never drinking coffee before bed again if this is what’s going to come of it.”

Myriel continues to look at him in that endlessly-understanding way of his that makes Grantaire feel guilty for lying—which, fuck that. If he doesn’t want to talk about his feelings, he shouldn’t have to.

“What?” Grantaire says into the expectant silence, with a kind of bitter, grinning zeal. “Are you going to give me charts with smiley faces too?”

“No, Grantaire,” says Myriel, brow creasing. “I’d just like to know that you’re alright, is all. Cosette has concerns-”

“Cosette has concerns?” Grantaire says, “Cosette has concerns about, like, ants, she should not be the threshold for taking things seriously.” It’s not fair in the least, as well as factually untrue: Cosette has better instincts than should be statistically possible. But Grantaire isn’t feeling all that generous, re: Cosette right now.

Myriel gives Grantaire a look that suggests just how much bullshit he thinks Grantaire’s spouting, which Grantaire thoroughly ignores.

Instead of saying as much, Myriel veers off at a different angle, “Grantaire, what do you like to do?”

Grantaire tries to follow the logic in that one and fails, “Huh?”

“What do you like to do? What do you think is fun?”

Grantaire shrugs expansively. “Eh, I don’t know. Sleep?”

Myriel smiles, “Anything else?”

Grantaire passes that one on to his higher functioning capabilities and his brain helpfully responds with blank silence.

He shrugs again and Myriel looks a lot more disappointed than Grantaire thinks he has any right to, really.

&

When Grantaire walks out of school with Combeferre next Monday and sees Javert waiting next to his ridiculously rusty three-door VW Polo, he has what he can only describe as a minor heart attack. Javert gives Grantaire’s wide-eyed look the open suspicion it deserves, and then says, “Get in.”

When Combeferre steps forward, Javert shakes his head at him, “Just me and Grantaire, I’m afraid. You lot can get the train.” 

Grantaire, who’s only just started to find his chill again after wading through the expansive relief of Javert not catching him truanting, starts to back away. Javert watches Grantaire visibly running through escape options with an increasingly trapped expression on his face.

“In the car, Grantaire,” Javert repeats. Then, when Grantaire makes it clear he’ll do no such thing, Javert snags him by the loop of his tie and shoves him into the back seat of the Polo, pushing the driver’s seat back on its rails with a clunk that is deeply menacing.

“No need to worry,” says Javert ( smiling benignly over Grantaire’s shouts of, “Worry! There is a definite need for worry!”) as Enjolras and Feuilly arrive and look distressingly unfazed by Grantaire’s kidnapping.

Enjolras eventually gives in to Grantaire’s entreating face, pressed up against the tiny back-seat window. “Where are you taking him?” he asks, sounding only mildly curious, which, really Enjolras, the one time some indignation would have been a useful addition to the proceedings.

“We’re going to spend some quality legal-guardian, legal-ward time together,” says Javert, sounding about as enthused as Grantaire is by that prospect.

Feuilly—unkindly, Grantaire thinks—laughs.

“Have, er, fun?” says Combeferre.

“Oh he will,” says Javert with a grin.

The car takes them through Chelsea and across the river past Battersea Park, before turning west away from the city. The entire flock has a pretty solid sense of direction but Grantaire has honestly no idea where they’re going. He thinks asking would probably constitute some kind of surrender though, so he keeps quiet as Javert hums tunelessly to whatever jumpy pop song is on the radio.

Grantaire would never admit it, ever, but of all the adults in his life, his favourite is Javert. The kindness and understanding heaped upon him by Valjean and Dr Myriel make him feel uncomfortable and guilty and he doesn’t really have any way to express that—not even to himself. They’re reactive, is the thing, the same way everyone else Grantaire cares about reacts to him. He loves his family but he resents the spider-web trembles that rock them all at his slightest move. He resents that Enjolras is upset by him, that Combeferre and Cosette seem sometimes almost unnerved by him, that Myriel and Valjean watch him carefully. He wants, desperately, to do the things that make him feel more sane - skip school, wander the city, distance himself from his family—without the distant thundering of guilt always overhead. Javert can be theatrical, but really he’s unshakeable. He gives Grantaire someone to push against, without feeling like he’s hurting anyone, as if Grantaire could throw his very worst at Javert and he wouldn’t even flinch. If it were Valjean driving, Grantaire would be constantly itchy-aware of his focus, of Valjean’s eyes on him in the rear-view mirror. With Javert, he may as well not be in the car. It’s deeply comforting, in an obscure way

The area becomes more suburban and Javert slows to a halt outside an old red brick building that looks, to Grantaire’s wary eyes, suspiciously like a school.

Javert finds a space to park, unfolds himself from the driver’s seat, and flips the seat down with an expectant look at Grantaire. He has Grantaire’s spare rucksack on his back, which he must have brought from home. Grantaire tries to convey with his face just how deeply unimpressed he will be if his school-theory pans out. Javert ignores him, just hooks him out by his—now mangled, tight-knotted—tie, and hustles him into the reception. It’s more open than Grantaire expects, more commercial. Probably not a school then.

“Hello,” says the smiling woman at the desk. “Are you here for a class?” she asks Grantaire.

“The half four one,” says Javert. “With Floreal.”

“What’s the name?” she asks, as Grantaire casts about frantically for any sign of what’s in store for him.

“Grantaire Amis,” says Javert, gripping Grantaire’s shoulder with faux-casualness. Grantaire has just spotted the gold-embossed crest on the wall of two ballet shoes intertwined and has stiffened in preparation for flight.

“Ballet?” Grantaire hisses through his teeth, as the woman disappears into a back office

Javert raises an eyebrow at Grantaire and passes the rucksack to him. Grantaire unzips it and immediately sees a pair of black ballet shoes in his size, still partially wrapped in tissue paper.

“I do not like you,” he tells Javert factually.

“I do not care,” replies Javert easily, as the woman comes back.

“Here’s your ID card!” she says brightly, “it’ll let you through the doors to the changing room.”

“Great!” chirps Grantaire insincerely.

“If you just follow me, I’ll show you the studio you’ll be in and the changing rooms. There’s still a bit of time before the class starts.”

Grantaire follows, shooting an poisonous look back at Javert as he goes.

“I’ll be waiting outside,” says Javert, with a smug smile, “See you in a bit!”

&

For the first four weeks (two classes a week—Wednesday afternoon and, hideously, Saturday morning) Grantaire hates ballet. It’s a concentrated form of everything he hates in the world: a room ringed with mirrors, all the focus on him, an authority figure barking instructions at him (specifically, and annoyingly, telling him how to do things he’s pretty much already mastered in daily life, thanks, like point his feet and hold his arms out straight.) Unfortunately there are two things stopping him from making any kind of bid for freedom. Javert’s presence by the only point of egress is one factor (and a tragically expected one, most of the tedious things in Grantaire’s life are Javert’s fault). The other is Grantaire’s ballet instructor, whose life goal appears to culminate in making Grantaire as miserable as possible. At least, that’s the only reason he can think of for why the woman is so unrelentingly bloody. 

“Arm, Grantaire, foot… That is not what forth position looks like!”

Grantaire wonders at moments like this, as he’s pushed into the forwards splits, why it’s only people who want to cause him suffering that are capable of tracking his movements and actually seeing him with any degree of exactitude.

Floreal has her dark hair pulled back so tight the skin around her temples actually looks a bit stretched. She’s gorgeous, hispanic, and utterly incurious about Grantaire’s wings. She’s much more concerned with his arm, which he’s just brought down too fast again.

“Éffacé, Grantaire! Again, on the beat this time.”

Grantaire doesn’t know where Javert found a ballet instructor who could be trusted to keep avian-humanoid science experiments a secret, but he does get the impression that Floreal takes the responsibility seriously. She locks the doors to the studio before they start, every time. Apart from that, she never makes any indication that she notices them.

When he comes in on the fifth week, Floreal tells him not to get changed, and instead leads the way to the nearest tube station with Grantaire trailing her like a leaf. Watching Floreal on the tube at rush hour is strangely hypnotising to Grantaire. Everyone else swings with the rocking of the train, like pendulums in a clock. Floreal stands straight, holding her bag over one shoulder, as if she’s held up by some central, invisible string. They get off at Covent Gardens and Floreal leads him up the steps of a huge white building, towering pillars flanking them on either side. She gets waved inside by a man at the front desk who seems to know her, and leads Grantaire up some stairs and along a narrow corridor. It strikes Grantaire, suddenly, that he hasn’t asked her where they’re going and that that’s a disappointing lack of suspicion on his part, really. She could be about to turn him over to shadowy government officials, although he doubts it—this is a really nice building. Eventually they come out into the light of the biggest, most opulent, room Grantaire has ever seen.

“This is the Royal Opera House,” Floreal says quietly. She indicates for him to take a seat in one of rows and Grantaire does, fumblingly, without taking his eyes off the swathes of red and gold. “You’re going to watch the Royal Ballet Company’s dress rehearsal. They’re doing Romeo and Juliet.”

The ballet starts, and Grantaire looks out over the empty theatre and feels something inside him leap like it does when he’s about to fly. He doesn’t really follow the ballet, plot-wise, but his eyes are dry from not-blinking by intermission. He gets it, suddenly, in the swirl of steady arms and legs and the shrill violins. The delicate, steely control of the whole thing soothes him like listening to a clock tick.

Grantaire gets it, and he loves it.

Four weeks after that he sees Floreal smile for the first time, when he pulls off a tricky petit-allegro-adage combination in the first fifteen minutes of class. He takes it as pretty much the highest compliment possible and floats for the rest of the day.

&

Grantaire is fifteen years old and he hates himself. He hates school and homework and the London public transport system. He hates eating food that doesn’t taste of anything and he hates trying to get to sleep at night. He hates his numerous guardians for making him feel guilty or just flat-out making him do things he doesn’t want to do. He even hates his family.

And Grantaire loves his family too, desperately, but there’s a creeping rot inside of him that warps and distorts feelings like a fun house mirror, and loving people is not an exclusively positive emotion, he discovers. Musichetta, Bahorel, and Combeferre are laws unto themselves, they’re human fortresses and Grantaire never looks at them and hurts. But he hurts when he looks at Jehan, who is quiet and clever and vulnerable (Grantaire knows it’s Jehan’s blindness against the swirl and thunder of London that makes him wince, not any intrinsic Jehan weakness, but it’s there, it’s a chink). Bossuet and Joly are soft somehow, something that’s probably only possible because Musichetta is so relentlessly fucking hard. Courfeyrac smiles at strangers and trusts them, too, likes nothing more than to be liked, as if other people aren’t inherently dangerous. Cosette and Eponine set off very similar aches in Grantaire’s chest, even though they couldn’t be more different. Eponine sits with her legs splayed on the subway, boots planted on the ground, making uncompromising black-lined eye contact with strangers. Cosette folds herself in and down, tucks her legs in, averts her gaze beneath her curtains of curls. Inside, though, Eponine has always given Grantaire the impression of being hopelessly small and lost, and Cosette, when she forgets herself, shines out as something big and wild and beautiful. But it’s the smallness - superficial in Cosette, deep in Eponine - that makes Grantaire flinch, like their vulnerabilities are cuts in his own skin.

And he doesn’t see smallness in anyone like he sees it in Enjolras. Everything Grantaire loves about him—his hope, his determination, his will—he hates for its naïveté, stupidity, stubbornness. Enjolras is—has always been—a gaping hole in Grantaire’s armour. Grantaire knows his family think he’s too harsh with Enjolras, the constant, biting inner-critic, snapping at any show of weakness. Grantaire has Enjolras’s back and always will, for the rest of his life. But it seems like a long time since he’s seen Enjolras’s back without having the urge to prod it, out of sheer irritation that such a point of fragility exists.

In Grantaire’s long and unfortunate experience, hurting never exists by itself. It’s usually followed by things like resentment and anger and hopelessness. And hatred. Grantaire hates that his family have the capacity to make him hurt so much. He hates them.

But most importantly he hates himself.

There’s no one thing, per say, that makes him so unlikeable to himself. Yeah he’s says stupid shit, stuff he doesn’t even believe—Valjean says diplomatically that he likes to play the devil’s advocate; Javert says Grantaire would happily argue with himself in an empty room—but that’s only the surface level of distaste, as far as Grantaire’s concerned. He’s miserable without reason, he’s spiteful and angry and he hurts, always. He imagines himself all rotten and crumbly inside, black dust held together with a semi-convincing facade. He thinks maybe one day Enjolras will hug too tight and he’ll disintegrate all together and blow away. He lies awake at night and can very nearly hear his cells screaming, like his whole body is sounding out a distress call. Everything feels wrong. And he has no idea why. He thinks of Cosette’s word: foreboding and makes a greater effort to avoid her.

&

Of course as soon as he decides to do this, Cosette decides to take up ballet.

She doesn’t want to, he can tell: he’s never seen a human being look more awkward in a leotard before (and he saw himself in the mirror, that first time, so it’s not like he hasn’t seen some dark shit). Cosette has little cuts around the ankles and knees of her now hairless legs - it’s the first time Grantaire’s seen her legs without a dusting of fluffy blonde hair and they look cold and goosefleshed in the big ballet studio. Cosette folds her arms over her chest and smiles uncertainly, and puts up with it all, because she’s worried about Grantaire. Grantaire is caught between annoyance and amusement and some aching, throat-welling feeling he ignores.

Floreal splits the time between them, and is generally much nicer to Cosette than Grantaire, which he would resent if he didn’t fully agree with the sentiment. Cosette isn’t nearly as good a dancer as he is, progressing about four times slower than him, but she seems to love it almost as much as he does, by the end of the second lesson.

“It’s almost like flying,” she says. “And it’s lovely to have your wings out, isn’t it? It’s so nice to whirl them around and not worry about who’s watching.”

Floreal gives them half an hour after the lesson to dance free-style, with as loose hand positions and as swirling, elaborate turns as they want. They unfurl their wings and let their jumps go long, their pirouettes fast and breath-stealing. By the end they are covered in sweat and panting and laughing breathlessly and when Grantaire sneaks a glance at Floreal she actually looks a little fond of them.

&

Dom’s parents are almost never home, so Grantaire and Dom spend a lot of time lounging about in his living room, eating takeout, drinking from Mr and Dr Taully’s liqueur cabinet, and smoking weed. Grantaire, who has spent almost every waking moment that he can remember in the company of his family, thinks the peaceful quiet of Dom’s five-bedroom suburban detached is absolutely fucking glorious. He considers the general absence of show tune sing-offs, base-level bickering, politically-charged ranting and vindictively-loud visual impairment assistance to be a massive step up from his own frankly migraine-inducing life.

Dom, on the other hand, seems weirdly discomfited by his own quiet house, and seems anxious for Grantaire to come round and share in the food, alcohol and flat screen TV whenever possible. Considering that the latter of these items doesn’t function in Dominik’s household as a catalyst for blind rage, screaming matches, and remote-control-hurling on par with olympic javelin throwing, Grantaire is very happy to do so. He thinks that if he had all this to himself he would not be inviting random tragic-haired losers to come share in the bounty, but as long as Dom’s offering, Grantaire is happy to capitalise on his mistakes.

Grantaire had his first drink three months ago, and his first spliff a few weeks after that. He honestly doesn’t know how he ever coped without them, now. They pull him out of his head, out of the twisted circuits that go round and round and drive him crazy. The white noise is still going on back there, somewhere, but as long as Grantaire doesn’t have to be excruciatingly aware of it, he doesn’t give a shit.

Dom’s parents have a huge liqueur cabinet filled with bottles that Dom assures him his parents will never miss. It takes Grantaire about half of an alcopop to get ludicrously, falling-out-of-his-seat drunk—which is lightweight even for a 15 year-old ballet dancer who sometimes forgets to eat. Dom gives him a hard time (already on his third WKD) and Grantaire distantly wonders about his fucked-up biology and its possible effects on alcohol metabolism. It’s pretty idle speculation - to know for sure he’d have to ask Myriel, Cosette, or maybe Combeferre - and he’d honestly rather get his wings torn off gain than deal with that ensuing horrorshow.

The feeling of pleasant, sinking numbness is more than enough to make up for the thick coating of syrup that the colourful drinks leave on his tongue, and the chaos he’s probably wreaking on his delicate biology. After a while he discovers whisky, bourbon and rum, and that’s the more pressing of the two problems solved, as far as he’s concerned. He feels warm and boneless and the darkness ebbs and something important inside him corrodes.

&

Grantaire isn’t the only one who makes new friends. Eponine has a friend called Marius, who plays the clarinet with her in school. They sit for hours in front of Eponine’s computer monitors, doing who fucking knows what, exiling poor, ever-understanding Cosette from her own bedroom for hours on end. Marius is floppy haired, flailing, and daft as mud. He’s nice enough, even if he does seem moderately terrified of Eponine’s family—particularly Javert, Musichetta and Enjolras, which at least confirms to Grantaire that Marius isn’t completely stupid. Marius also unveils a hitherto unseen facet of Eponine’s personality: one where she’s nice, not at all mean, and only a little insulting. Marius, for his part, seems to be a little in awe of Eponine, which is a fairly reasonable response, as far as Grantaire’s concerned.

Musichetta, Courfeyrac and Bahorel have too many friends for Grantaire to even hope to keep track of, so he calls them all Dave in what started as a joke and ended as a bad habit that makes all the Daves eye him weirdly.

“You’re coming right?” asks one of the Daves, a girl with pretty blond hair, freckles and big teeth. She’s talking to Courfeyrac but turns to the rest of them a half-moment later, “You should all come! Courf, you never bring your family to things! Everyone wants to meet them!”

Freckly Dave is at the house for dinner, so they’re all on their best behaviour, wings tucked safely away and a beady-eyed Javert watching Category Five for any indication of, like, C-4. She’s asking about Courfeyrac’s plans for Halloween. Grantaire hopes Courfeyrac doesn’t tell her, because the truth—watching the Rocky Horror Picture Show at a volume which has previously blown speakers, getting real weird on caffeine, and playing an interminable game of how-many-marshmallows-can-you-fit-in-your-mouth-without-vomming—isn’t going to do their reputation as That Weird Family That’s Probably A Cult any favours. The marshmallow game in particular can get quite ghastly. Even though it should have had nothing to do with luck and everything to do with mouth volume and capacity for disgusting behaviour (which, surely Bahorel was the strongest contender there), Cosette is the reigning champion. This doesn’t stop at least one person from nearly asphyxiating every year in an effort to beat her. 

“We normally have a family halloween thing,” says Courfeyrac easily. “But if we can get out of it, we’ll definitely come.” From this Grantaire gathers that Courfeyrac would like to go to the party but knows better than to speak on behalf of the flock before the full democratic process has been carried out. Courfeyrac’s diplomacy is on top form tonight: so far freckly Dave hasn’t noticed the simmering antagonism at the table, in spite of Musichetta’s pointed scowls and Grantaire sitting almost with his back to Enjolras. This is in contrast to Javert, who has definitely picked up on it and it absolutely going to interrogate them as soon as freckly Dave leaves the premises.

That afternoon, in a sadly unsurprising turn of events, Bossuet had somehow tipped a full jug of juice over Feuilly’s twenty pages of maths homework, turning his notebook into soggy, insubstantial mush. Feuilly had then demonstrated a Vesuvius-like rage implosion that had made even Eponine raise her eyebrows, and demanded to know if Bossuet actually fucking enjoyed destroying everything he touched.

Everyone in the flock has little soft spots, exposed nerves that lie close to the skin, and ninety-nine times out of a hundred, they collectively avoid those spots with a precision and deftness grown out of literally thousands of breakdowns, arguments and crying fits. But there’s always that hundredth time. At Feuilly’s words Bossuet, already wringing his hands and apologising, had flinched violently, and Musichetta—apparently on pure reflex—had hurled her pencil case straight into Feuilly’s face. This was not something to be taken lightly, as both Musichetta’s stationary collection and her right swing were forces to be reckoned with. Bahorel had moved to grab Musichetta by the arm and had been met by an equally ferocious backhand that he’d responded to by yanking her hair. Meanwhile Jehan’s fast-paced Russian audiobook had continued to rattle along at high volume as he determinedly ignored his rioting siblings. Peace had only been regained when the twin-powered social calming measures of Combeferre and Courfeyrac had arrived on the scene and bodily intervened. Grantaire had then tried to convince a bruised and moderately hysterical Feuilly—who would have rather lost digits than get caught cheating—to let him re-do Feuilly’s homework—since Grantaire hadn’t actually been planning on doing the homework, there would be no hitches involving obviously identical answers. This, inevitably, had started Enjolras off again on his endless crusade for Grantaire’s academic welfare, and the clatter of Jehan giving up on ever successfully hearing a chapter of Anna Karenina and storming out of the room had been drowned out by Enjolras demanding to know why Grantaire was premeditatedly failing homework assignments he was evidently perfectly capable of doing. Grantaire’s glib answer of, “Aesthetic,” had prompted Enjolras to hurl his French folder at Grantaire’s head and had caused Courfeyrac to burst into actual tears.

All things considered, the fact that freckly Dave was having a nice night was frankly astonishing, and a true testament to the unrivalled social mastery of Courfeyrac and Combeferre. At last count no fewer than six different silent treatments were being administered around the dinner table, not including Jehan’s disdain for the whole fucking lot of them, which he expressed by making poorly-veiled Shakespearean insults. Only Coeur and Ferre could make the conversational equivalent of the Cold War appear to an outsider as only friendly banter.

“Please try and come!” coaxes freckly Dave. “It’ll be so much fun!”

“I’ll come along,” says Musichetta sweetly. Next to Grantaire, Enjolras the resident recluse stiffens.

“Me too,” says Grantaire. He’s probably smirking. In his peripheral vision he’s aware of Courfeyrac give Combeferre the subtlest of SOS communications with nothing but his eyebrows.

Javert and Valjean, who’ve looked for most of the dinner like two men watching open war being declared through semaphore—expressions conveying equal volumes of bafflement and terror—stand up and start talking loudly about getting desert.

&

One evening at Dom’s house, half-way through some weird cartoon for adults that’s much funnier when Grantaire’s high, Dom leans in and kisses him on the mouth. In three seconds Grantaire has processed that (a) this is something that apparently could happen (b) it’s actually quite nice and (c) he would like it to continue. He presses back into the kiss, clumsy teeth clicking off Dom’s, following the gentle swoops in his stomach. It’s his first experience with a kind of nervousness on the right side of pleasant.

After five, ten, whatever minutes of surprisingly gentle, almost sleepy, kissing, Dom pulls away, gazes blearily at Grantaire, then throws up. Grantaire’s reflexes, while fast, have never actually gotten to Cosette’s preternatural levels. He gets pretty thoroughly splattered and laughs raucously at the look on Dom’s face. Dom gets up and runs into the bathroom, locking the door, and proceeds to freak out. Grantaire cleans up the living room and then sits against the bathroom door. Voice now carefully devoid of humour, because apparently that’s the wrong reaction, Grantaire asks him what’s up.

It turns out it’s the gay thing, that is in fact, up. Which, oops.

There are very few positives to being brought up in an artificial environment in which you are mostly left to find your own developmental milestones and whatnot. One of the very, very few is a lack of awareness of certain social norms and cultural biases. While this can reap unpleasant side effects, like a willingness to commit homicide (Enjolras), it also means that racism, sexism, homophobia, and pretty much every other widely-held social prejudice was pretty lost on the flock once they eventually reached the Real World. It’s probably why most of them are quite so social justicey, if Grantaire thinks about it. In the institute, the social minority, the others, had been the razers, and the flock had hated them. It wasn’t that the flock was magically immune to, like, the basic psychology of intolerance, but unless anyone in the general public started evidencing fangs and the like, it was highly unlikely that the flock would start being particularly racist. There was also a certain undertone of who cares about sexuality, we have wings, that stopped any of them from getting too judgey.

“Look,” says Grantaire, very reasonably for someone with hollow bones who is one Jack Daniel’s mixer to the wind, “If you want to, like, ignore that and pretend it never happened, that’s totally okay with me, I’m ace at ignoring things. But if you want to, I don’t know, try it again? I’m also down with that. So really there’s no wrong answer here, lets do what you want. You’re like my best mate or whatever, Dom. Don’t be weird.”

Dom opens the bathroom door a crack and eyes Grantaire through it. “We’re best mates?” He looks pale and a bit wobbly.

“Sure,” says Grantaire. Dom is, in fact, the first person since Montparnasse who is just his mate. Just his pal, someone to hang out with and laugh with and not feel tangled up in so tight he feels like suffocating. A friend, instead of family. A human, not an albatross, if Grantaire feels like being poetic.

Dom opens the door a bit more, and Grantaire makes him some tea because that’s what Joly does whenever anyone throws up or looks moderately sad. They end up sitting close together against the hallway wall, knees knocking a bit.

“We good?” Grantaire asks.

Dom squints at him narrowly before nodding, “Yeah? Yeah.”

“Wanna kiss again?” asks Grantaire, feeling like an absolute dork, but he’s not plunging back in there without like, verbal consent or whatever.

“Best mates don’t normally pull each other though,” says Dom, looking uncomfortable but not moving away either.

“Eh, who cares?” says Grantaire. “They can if they want.”

Dom giggles at that for a bit, which sets Grantaire off. After a solid five minutes of laughing at nothing they get themselves under control, and Dom looks up and says, “Alright then.”

It only occurs to Grantaire twenty minutes into the subsequent make-out session to be grateful for Dom brushing his teeth.

&

“Where were you?” asks Jehan idly as Grantaire flops onto his bed. Jehan’s phone is doing that god awful thing that drives Eponine crazy, where a Jeeves-esque voice reads out the contents of Jehan’s twitter feed, which is unilaterally filled with amateur poets, vegans and non-sequiteur-spouting weirdos.

“Dom’s,” says Grantaire, over the noise of someone with a Sylvia Plath inspired handle talking worryingly about ovens. “His parents are away and he had some people round.”

“What’s that smell?” says Jehan. “It’s gross.”

“Some guys were smoking.”

“It’s not smoke,” says Jehan, shaking his head, and pausing to relisten to the most recent tweet, something about consumer fetishism.

Jeeves responds to Jehan’s taps with, “Reply… Retweet… Favourite… Selected, favourite,” as Grantaire shifts uncomfortably.

“It was weed,” he says. “But don’t tell the others, okay?”

“I’m going to Febreeze you,” says Jehan, which is not an answer. He rolls the entire top half of his body under his bed, his lower half still sprawled out over the duvet. He emerges with a can of air refreshener, which he scooshes at Grantaire’s face like he’s a misbehaving cat. “And you shouldn’t smoke weed.”

“Hey, you’re the one who’s all about expanding your mind,” says Grantaire defensively. “Don’t try and tell me you wouldn’t smoke.”

“My brain chemistry isn’t already holding itself together with string,” Jehan mutters, frowning.

“What’s that supposed to mean?” says Grantaire. He’d headed straight to Jehan’s room after getting home at 3am because Jehan never tried to make him behave, or be mature, and yet here he was getting told to be sensible. This from a person whose primary aim in life seemed to be to distance himself as far away from reality as physically and existentially possible.

“Enjolras was worried,” says Jehan, ignoring him.

“Since when do you care about Enjolras being worried?” Grantaire asks, completely exasperated.

Jehan meets his eyes, “Enjolras is my family too.”

“Okay, but-”

“And if it were him who had snuck out, you’d be more than worried, with less reason.”

“What does that mean? Why does everyone act like I can’t take care of myself?”

“Because you never show any indication of wanting to,” says Jehan snappily.

Grantaire opens his mouth to argue but Jehan’s attention is gone, focused on some meta article about gothic literature as an inherently feminist genre.

“Can I sleep here tonight?” says Grantaire.

“No,” says Jehan simply, without looking up. “Enjolras is still awake. Go and tell him you’re home.”

“But-”

“You can use my shower first, if you want,” he says.

“Right, thanks.”

Jehan just kind of jerks his head and restarts the article and Grantaire’s left to wonder what the fuck that was about.

&

They don’t go to any Halloween parties that year, but they do the next, on account of the flock’s extroverts just barely holding the voting majority.

When it comes to costumes, there’s only one obvious choice.

“’Chetta!” calls Jehan, hurtling down the stairs like a literal bat out of hell. “Where did you put the glitter?!”

Feuilly leaps back to avoid collision and says to Grantaire smugly, “This is why low key is the way to go.”

“Uhuh,” says Grantaire, fixing little paper snake heads to the end of his curls in the hall mirror with elastic bands. His fingers are stained green with the spray-on hair dye that’s coating his dark curls. It’s not as vibrant as he might of hoped - his hair now has a vaguely slime-green hue.

Low key isn’t how he’d describe Feuilly and Bahorel’s intricate hand-made paper bird masks, but Feuilly has always had a low opinion of his own talents.

“Grantaire are you sure this is right?” Enjolras asks, looks supremely uncomfortable. He’s draped in red velvet and gold jewellery. His wings are studded with massive costume jewels and swathes of rainbow gauze.

Grantaire holds a thumb up in the mirror as Enjolras adjusts the red sash that’s kind of but not really covering his nipple.

“Woah,” says Feuilly, “You look…”

“Ridiculous?” says Enjolras.

“Err,” says Feuilly, the tips his ears going an interesting red. “Not really what I…”

Bahorel’s shrill wolf whistle earns him a dirty look from Enjolras, “You look hot, Enj. Did Chetta do your makeup? Cause the manliner thing is A+.”

“Grantaire,” Enjolras whines. “You said this was a mythology thing, not a, a gigolo thing.”

(“Gigolo?” snickers Bahorel. “All that time on urban dictionary,” sighs Feuilly sadly, “And he still can’t talk like a normal kid.”)

Grantaire meets his eye in the mirror as he does his own winged eyeliner, “Sunshine have you ever actually read anything Greek? Ever? Because sex is, like, a big part of the whole ordeal.”

That, if anything, makes Enjolras look even more uncomfortable. Grantaire sighs, abandoning the tiny eyeliner snake on his temple and turning to face him. He chews his cheek and readjusts the red material till its covering most of Enjolras’s skin, wielding safety pins to make sure the whole thing stays PG-friendly.

“Better?” he asks, and Enjolras scowls, but he doesn’t look like he wants to climb out of his own skin any more, so it’s an improvement.

“Jehan said I make a great Cupid,” grumbles Enjolras. “You said I was a Greek god.”

“Jehan is an embarrassment,” Grantaire informs him, “Getting the Greeks and Romans mixed up, what a loser.”

“So I’m the Greek cupid?” Enjolras says, not sounding any happier about it.

“Eh, kind of,” says Grantaire, “Can I go back to my eyeliner now?”

Enjolras storms off semi-dramatically talking about how he doesn’t even like Valentines day.

“There aren’t as many winged Greek things as you’d think,” says Grantaire defensively to Feuilly, who’s giving him a look. Feuilly just rolls his eyes.

They pile into two taxis and head to Courfeyrac’s friend’s house in Kensington. The party is filled with kids from the richest and most exclusive schools in London, dressed up in expensive costumes, with high grade drugs being dealt in the upstairs bedrooms and bodyguards lurking outside in cars.

A Very Hot Vampire Dave answers the door and his eyes go huge at the flock in front of him. “Hey Courf!”

“Hey!” shouts Courfeyrac, because he’s had way too much sugar already this evening. “Hey man! This is my family! I told you I’d bring them!”

“Nice, eh, wings?” he says, eyes darting frantically from wingspan to wingspan.

“They were for the ’06 Spring Versace fashion show,” says Musichetta, dazzling VHV-Dave with her smile, “The line got pulled so our dad bought them for me. How real do they look?”

“Totally,” says VHV-Dave, not taking his eyes off of Musichetta’s face. “They’re amazing.”

He backs up to let them all in to the entranceway. “So,” he says, managing to shake Musichetta’s effect on him briefly for the sake of being a good host. “House rules, you have to wear a name badge-” he gestures with a roll of blank stickers and a sharpie, “-so people know what you’re supposed to be. And no going into the locked rooms, obviously, cause that’s where the expensive stuff is.” Grantaire eyes the crystal chandelier above them and wonders what the cheap, breakable stuff consists of.

“Courf, I love the outfit man, but what are you?”

“I am Crowley, and this is Aziraphale,” says Courfeyrac with a bow, almost losing his sunglasses. His wings stick out through slits in his newly-vandalised black leather jacket. Like the rest of them, he’s added some ribbons and extra bits to his wings to help detract from just how very not-fake they look. Combeferre is dressed in his favourite woolly jumper (although the wing slits mean that this is the first time it’s ever been out of the house) and looks exactly the same as usual except for the sword in his hand with fake flames dancing down it. Grantaire has no idea what they’re supposed to be but VHV-Dave makes some appreciative noises

“We’re birds,” says Feuilly bluntly, and Bahorel laughs and pretends to peck at the host with his beak. “Can we go now?”

Eponine and Cosette are dressed as a devil and an angel, respectively, because Eponine wanted to wield a trident and Cosette is easily persuadable. VHV-Dave grins at them and says, “And what are you two?” in exactly the kind of too-nice tone of voice that sends Eponine postal in about 0.3 seconds.

“Your last wet dream,” she sneers. “Don’t you recognise us?” Then she links her arm with Cosette and disappears off into the party without waiting for her sticker or for the rest of them.

Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta are up next. “Where are your wings?” VHV-Dave asks Joly.

“Difficult to get them on, what with the wheelchair,” says Joly. VHV-Dave stammers around awkwardly the way everyone does when Joly brings direct attention to his chair and Joly kindly distracts him with a question about the decor because Joly’s like that. The real reason his wings are tucked up under his paisley-pattern shirt and blazer is that he’d almost pushed himself into a panic attack at the idea of walking around with what - Grantaire agreed - basically amounted to big feathery targets for faceless government agencies plastered to his back. Instead, Joly is dressed as Professor X, Bossuet as Archangel and Musichetta as Tempest. They’re all big comic book geeks and apparently have no qualms with advertising that fact in public.

Once their stickers have been delivered, VHV-Dave turns to Jehan, who’s bobbing vaguely to the music.

“Sorry,” VHV-Dave apologies. “I’m probably being stupid, you’re…”

Jehan cocks his head to the side, long red hair getting caught in his spidery fake eyelashes, “I’m the thing with feathers that perches on the soul,” Jehan says, as if VHV-Dave is, in fact, stupid.

VHV-Dave looks like he’s about to probe further, an act of such sheer folly that Grantaire dives in, “He’s an anthropomorphism of an abstract noun,” he says quickly. “I’m a gorgon. This is cupid.” Behind him, Enjolras splutters.

“A gorgon?” asks Dave.

“You know, winged with snakes for hair?” tries Grantaire. “Hatred of mortal man?” He sighs dramatically at the blankness the gets in return, “Medusa?”

“Oh… yeah…” says VHV-Dave, sounding unconvinced but writing GORGON on the name tag anyway.

Enjolras receives his CUPID with as much dignity as possible and Grantaire is so busy laughing at that that Jehan wanders off and leaves him next to Enjolras at a party, which, he’s sure he’s warned them about that.

&

The next time he’s with Enjolras at a party, it’s a surprise 16th for Grantaire that Dominik’s hosting. Dom drags him out to see a stupid movie—the kind that Eponine calls Dick Flicks—and they eat popcorn until the movie gets too boring, at which point they start throwing it at each other. Grantaire had forgotten that it was his birthday until Dom had asked him to go to the cinema—the flock don’t celebrate birthdays, purely for reasons of practicality in that there are 13 of them and no one has time for that kind of expenditure—but they do have birthdays, officially, even if some of them hesitate for a bit too long when they get asked for the date. They traipse back to Dom’s afterwards and when his family and most of the Corinthian (and a sizeable number from the Musain and St Anthony’s) jump out from behind sofas, Grantaire puts his training as a child super-weapon to good use when he reacts by hurling his jacket straight into Bossuet’s face and falling over a pouffe.

“Really?” asks Grantaire to Feuilly, as an aside, while Dom gets him a drink from the table full of booze. “Surprise birthday party?”

“He asked if we were doing anything already,” mutters Feuilly, amused. “What were we going to say? No, we don’t celebrate Grantaire’s birthday because we don’t love him?”

“Sure, why not?” Grantaire laughs, peeling off as Dom approaches with a jack and coke.

He and Dom mostly stick together because Dom’s been kind of touchy-feely all day, holding onto his elbow and slinging his arm round Grantaire’s shoulders for photos. Grantaire may also be avoiding the less fun-loving members of his family like the plague, but he doesn’t have to admit that.

They end up in the garden, lying back in the cool damp of the spring grass, sending smoke spiralling up into the sky. Dom’s in a talkative mood, waxing lyrical about the future—he wants to go on a road trip round the US when they graduate, Grantaire’s arguing for Europe. Dom sits up to gesticulate more wildly in favour of New York City and San Fransisco, Grantaire laughs and Dom swoops down and kisses him, sweet and deep. It only ever happens when they’re drunk or high—which is, admittedly, most of the time out-with school—and it’s only ever just kisses. For the rest of the time they’re just mates, which is fine by Grantaire.

Dom pulls away in a giggling fit and Grantaire joins him, rolling his head back in the grass and looking up at where the stars would be, if they maybe didn’t live in London. He remembers watching the stars at the institute, remembers the deep unknowable feeling they gave him. They had seemed to say there is better out there, there is more, don’t give up hope. Grantaire can admit that the stars were probably right, in their own way.

After a bit Dom gets hungry, so he pulls Grantaire to his feet and they go indoors where a game of Truth or Dare has begun, obviously by people who are unfamiliar with certain members of Grantaire’s family and the lengths they will go to fulfil any dare that so much as looks at them. There is a lifetime ban on any and all forms of dares, challenges and gambles in their house, enforced by Javert’s zero-tolerance policy and social services’ mounting interest in Bossuet’s hospital attendances.

“Dare,” says Bahorel to the observable fear of literally everyone who knows him. Except for Feuilly—that little psycho grins. 

Grantaire does a quick scan of the circle and notes the conspicuous absence of Musichetta, Cosette, Combeferre and Courfeyrac, the most sensible—and coincidentally least likely to die by tragic accident—of their family. Surprisingly, Enjolras is there, and doesn’t seem to have voiced any objection. He’s sitting with crossed legs sipping quietly from a bottle of fruit cider.

“I dare you to put all the ice in that bucket in your pants until it melts,” says Feuilly to raucous laughter.

“Easy,” says Bahorel. He undoes his fly and tugs his boxers and pours…

The sound he makes is hideous and includes more swear words than Grantaire knew existed.

“Your turn,” says Feuilly cheerfully.

Bahorel spins the bottle with one hand frantically clutched over his crotch. It lands on Bossuet

“Ohhhh fuck, eh, guess you’re going with truth, Sweets?” Bahorel says, not seeming particularly invested in making Bossuet’s life any harder. Grantaire guesses he’s biding his time for the next time the bottle points Feuilly-wards.

“Probably best,” says Bossuet sadly.

“Errhh, who’s your favourite person, Musichetta or Joly?”

Feuilly, Eponine and Grantaire laugh hard at that, though no one outside of the flock gets the joke. Bossuet looks hopelessly torn. “I can’t decide that!”

“You picked truth, Sweets,” gasps Bahorel, eyes watering, not quite hitting the taunting tone he’s reaching for due to—Grantaire assumes— the beginning of the melting process.

Feuilly can’t stop laughing at him, but he agrees between breaths, “Yep, you gotta answer, Bossuet. Thems the rules.”

“I’d understand if you picked Chetta,” says Joly, faux-sniffing. “She’s much prettier than me.”

Grantaire kind of wishes Enjolras would speak up with something sanctimonious like how that’s not fair because his threshold for Bossuet looking even a little upset is pretty low.

“Ya know, Sweets,” says Grantaire lazily. “If you answer in Spanish you can gender it.”

Bossuet’s face lights up in the midst of loud outcry, and Grantaire is pelted with the ice cubes that haven’t made it to Bahorel’s crotch (he hopes).

“Booo!” shouts Eponine, from where she’s eating peanuts in the corner.

“Musichetta es mi amiga favorita y Joly es mi amigo favorito,” says Bossuet smugly.

(”Ha,” says Feuilly, “Holy Joly.”)

“I think that might be the first time I’ve ever seen the gender binary be of use,” ponders Joly.

“Spin it again!” calls someone else. Bossuet spins it and it points at Grantaire who hoots.

“I’m usually a strictly dare kind of guy, but I think considering it’s you who spun the bottle Sweets I’ll stick on the safe side,” says Grantaire, laughing. “Truth.”

“Who’s your favourite person?” asks Bossuet, obviously throwing a gratitude-imbibed low ball. Because the flock all know the answer, 100%, no questions necessary. It’s a fact.

Dom doesn’t, though, “Answer carefully Taire! I’ll be proper moody if it’s not me.”

Grantaire laughs, drunk and stalling, “Hmmm, let me thiiiiink,”

“Who’s got competition on me, eh?” Dom asks, “Jehan or Eponine, right? Well, Jehan’s not here, and I’ll fight Eponine.”

Eponine scoffs and catches a peanut in her mouth expertly, “Like you could take me.”

“I didn’t say I’d win,” says Dom, “The aim is to make Taire feel sorry for me so I cinch the pity vote!”

“I think Enjolras might have a bit of competition with you,” says Bossuet, smiling. “Probably better fighting him.”

Dom laughs openly, “Oh yeah, sure, Enjolras and Taire are best pals.”

Eponine smirks, “It’s a love-hate thing.”

“Heavy on the hate, though, right?” laughs Dom. The dread that has been sinking slowly through Grantaire for the last few seconds hits the bottom of him with a thunk.

“Nah,” he says, trying to save the dire situation that he just let unfold in front of him like an origami game from hell. “I don’t hate him, eh?”

“Christ you sure bitch about him a lot for someone you don’t hate,” says Dom, whose mouth will just not stop moving, and now he’s on to a shoddy Grantaire impression, “Enjolras is so annoying, I can’t fucking stand him, he thinks he’s better than me.” He seems to realise, belatedly, drunkenly, that he is actually being offensive. “No offence, man,” he clarifies to Enjolras. Eponine lets slip a bark of horrified laughter at that one. Joly is wide eyed, Feuilly’s closed his eyes like he’s in physical pain, and Bossuet’s hand-wringing has reached a fever pitch.

Enjolras hasn’t looked up from his cider the whole time, but now he does. He gazes at Bossuet, face strangely pale. “Ask me,” he says quietly.

Bossuet makes a noise that could generously be called, “Hnhgh?”

“Ask me who my favourite person is,” he says.

Bossuet opens his mouth then closes it again immediately. He keeps sending an appalled-looking Joly for the love of god help me looks.

Enjolras doesn’t wait. “It’s Grantaire,” he says, looking straight at him.

Then he gets up and leaves the house.

&

Grantaire nearly decapitates some poor slow-moving human in his rush to leave the room. He hears over the immediate ringing in his hears Bahorel snap, “Hey,” and Eponine say, “Back the fuck off,” to Dominik, he assumes, he doesn’t really care.

He battles his way out of the foyer - why are people not moving? - shoving and pushing until he can get to the front door and out into the warm evening. Enjolras is walking away from the party, hair lit up by fizzing, straining street lights, hands stuffed deep into his red leather jacket, wings—golden, shining, slumped low.

Grantaire has to break into a sprint to catch up, throwing his arms around Enjolras desperately when he does, fingers catching and clinging to the sharp zipper teeth. For the first time in Grantaire’s living memory, Enjolras pushes him away, thrashes loose and whirls round. He’s shaky and frenetic and his tears are trickling to the corner of his mouth, dripping off his chin.

Grantaire knows, theoretically, that he’s felt worse in his life, but no examples are springing readily to mind.

“I-” Grantaire says, hands pulling like magnets to Enjolras’s hot face, thumb sweeping at his cheekbone, fingers into his curls.

“I’m sorry,” Grantaire says, feeling like he can’t get his words out fast enough or clear enough. The world is spinning around him unpleasantly. “I’m really sorry. I shouldn’t have let him say that. He’s drunk, that was awful. I’m sorry, hey, I’m sorry.” He kisses Enjolras’s forehead, temple, cheek, compulsively, tugs him closer into his arms.

Enjolras makes a bizarre thrashing movement wherein he tries to pull away from Grantaire and push closer simultaneously. He shakes his head violently, and he hasn’t said anything yet, which Grantaire hates hates hates. Enjolras should not be silent.

“Hey, hey sunshine, say something. Tell me I’m an idiot, hey?”

That doesn’t seem to help at all, and Grantaire panics as Enjolras’s face crumples.

“Do you really hate me?” asks Enjolras, sounding small, tiny, like back when they were still at the Institute and he said to Grantaire, promise.

“No,” says Grantaire “Of course I don’t hate you, don’t be- I could never hate you.”

“Why do you act like it then? Why do you say you do?”

“I don’t know, I’m an idiot, you know I’m an idiot, this is well known, it’s established. Enjolras you’re the most important person in the world to me, how can you not know that?”

“I thought I did,” says Enjolras quietly. He sits down so suddenly that Grantaire thinks he’s fallen, slumping against someone’s garden wall. “But you act like you can’t stand me. And the weird thing is I can’t remember a time when you haven’t. Like, sometimes I think it was before we got out, but then I remember that you didn’t like me much then.”

“Enjolras,” Grantaire, says, words coming out in a kind of strangled whisper, “I love you. Like, more than anyone else. Way more than myself.” He kneels down on the cold pavement, takes Enjolras’s long trembling fingers in his own.

Enjolras looks at him bleary, “You’re supposed to like the people you love though, right? You’re at least not supposed to hate them.”

“I don’t hate you,” Grantaire repeats.

“I think you maybe do,” mumbles Enjolras. “You know I said that to Combeferre once and he said the same thing back, he said, Grantaire loves you, like hating someone and loving them are somehow mutually exclusive or something. But they’re not. I know they’re not. Because I think you probably hate me, even if you don’t know it, even if you’d never admit it. And that’s not even the worst thing. The worst thing is that I don’t care if you hate me, just as long as you don’t leave me, and that’s just… That’s so awful, isn’t it? Because you’re all that I have, Grantaire. You’re all I’ve got. You were all I had.” Enjolras’s throat seems to close off in the swell of tears that follows.

Grantaire gapes, not sure what part of that to start refuting first but sensitive enough to the situation to know that leading with no you’re wrong would not be helpful. “I’m not all you’ve got,” says Grantaire, “And even if I was, nothing’s changed. I’m still here aren’t I?”

Enjolras stares off into the darkness behind the sleep lamps, swallowing hard. “I saw you with Dominik,” he says, veering wildly off topic, “In the garden. Tonight.” Grantaire rubs at his face. “That’s not new, is it. He’s, like, your boyfriend. And you never told me. You spend all your time with him, you don’t talk to me at school, you ignore me when I text you, you stay out all night without telling me, you’re… You’re supposed to be mine.” Enjolras’s voice cracks neatly in time with some fundamental piece of Grantaire’s heart.

It’s a line that Grantaire has watched enough porn to know is pretty exclusively sexual. But this isn’t. For one thing, he’s pretty sure that Enjolras isn’t sexual, like, that’s not a thing that computes with him. For another, this goes way deeper than that. Onto a level he’s pretty sure would be difficult to explain to people who had normal, functioning childhoods. What Enjolras feels for Grantaire is something huge and terrifying. It’s a feeling Grantaire imagines normal people have towards their parents, their childhood bedrooms, their favourite teddy bears and bed time stories. Enjolras has it for him, this weird, aching comfort and nostalgia and faith that Grantaire will never be gone, never stop existing. Grantaire has never had that for anyone. He loves Enjolras with his entire heart, and it’s never brought him any peace of mind. It’s terrified him, every moment, and made him into a worse person than he necessarily had to be.

“I’m yours,” Grantaire sighs, tipping his head forwards till it’s resting on Enjolras’s knees. “If it’d make you happy I’d never speak to Dom again, okay? I’m yours, okay? You got me.”

“No you wouldn’t,” scoffs Enjolras.

Grantaire looks up at him in surprise. “I absolutely would,” he says seriously.

Enjolras’s eyebrows ark in shock.

“Sunshine, I would fuck over people I care a lot more about than Dominik Taully to protect you.”

Enjolras shakes his head and looks away.

“No, listen,” presses Grantaire, pulling Enjolras’s eyes back onto him. “I might argue with you, and shout at you, and drive you fucking mental. But I will always, always pick you. You’re not my favourite person, Enjolras, you’re my only person. And that’s really weird, okay, that’s not normal and sometimes I like to act normal, and hang out with people who don’t have wings and don’t having a fucking clue what it feels like to genuinely be ready to kill for someone. But I’ve got wings, sunshine, and I’ve got you. And there is literally nothing in the world that will change that. I couldn’t change it, even if I wanted to. Nobody else has a chance.”

&

Grantaire walks up to Dominik at break time next Monday, hands in his pockets.

“Woah,” says Dom, “Man, did Saturday night get weird. Did I, like, upset your brother or something?” Dom looks kind of jittery. His smile is nervous. Grantaire wonders what his own face looks like. Dom continues “Like, siblings don’t like each other, get over it already—right?” He laughs and Grantaire smiles.

He’s done way worse than this before, he reminds himself.

“Nah,” he says casually. “We’re done now.”

Dom gives him a strange look, “What?”

“I don’t let anyone speak to my family like that,” says Grantaire. “So we’re done. As in, no longer friends, no longer people who make out sometimes. Finito.”

Dom gapes at him, “Look, I’m sorry, okay? It really wasn’t that big a deal, though.”

Grantaire shrugs, “I wasn’t really looking to start, like, a debate. I’m just telling you. We’re done.”

Dom shakes his head, “Why is your brother so weird honestly, it’s fucking creepy. Is he telling you to do this or something? You know he was watching us when we were out in the garden on Saturday night, just, like, staring. That’s probably why I was so mean to him. He freaks me out.”

Grantaire closes his eyes and takes a deep breath. “Look, do I actually have to say the words I’m dumping you for you to understand this? My brother freaks you out, great, you’ll never have to talk to him again. Because, as I said, we’re done.”

At which point Dominik punches him, which, Grantaire supposes, is probably fair.

What’s probably not fair is Enjolras arriving to punch Dom in the face, breaking his own hand, and landing all three of them in detention, which, Grantaire protests, he didn’t even get to hit anyone.

&

Detention is… Awkward. Not only because the person taking it forgets about Grantaire’s physical presence on three separate occasions but also because Enjolras is dividing his energies between glowering at the back of Dominik’s head so hard the halogens flicker, and trying to engage Grantaire with his studies under the guise of “needing help”, which is very clearly a lie.

Enjolras might not be as naturally brilliant as Cosette or Combeferre but he works hard and his willpower is a force to be reckoned with. He once willed himself out of electric-fenced captivity, the pig headed stubbornness required to memorise maths theorems is absolutely within his reach.

“How do you do this one?” Enjolras asks a half asleep Grantaire.

Grantaire casts a distasteful eye over it. “Find the derivation then make it a graph,” he says, lolling back onto the desk.

“How,” persists Enjolras.

“With the 3 and the… Look:” Grantaire snatches Enjolras’s pen and scribbles out the derivation, then sketches some x’s and draws a shaky parabolic curve connecting them.

“Yes, but you didn’t explain how,” says Enjolras, scowling at the two pages of working Grantaire left very thoughtfully in his notepad. He doesn’t usually write out his working. It’s why he fails even when he does apply effort.

“You just do it, sunshine,” sighs Grantaire, “It’s not difficult. There’s nothing else you can do with it.”

Enjolras eyes him narrowly, “It is hard. No one else in the class could do it. The teacher gave it out to see if anyone would be able to manage any of it.”

“Oh no,” says Grantaire robotically, with a heavy eye roll. “You have tricked me. Now I realise maths is my calling. I have found salvation.”

Enjolras nudges him and Grantaire laughs.

“How can you hate something that you’re so good at?” Enjolras asks, sounding genuinely curious.

“I’m good at loads of things I’m not particularly proud of,” says Grantaire. “Not sleeping, dancing the Macarena, finding clothes that Jehan likes.” They both make a face at the last one.

“Being a fucking freak,” mutters Dom, a row and a desk in front of them.

“Do you want to say something?” demands Enjolras, apparently still under the misapprehension that he’s the injured party here. The fact that Dom just got dumped by a guy who was—for all intents and purposes—his boyfriend for said guy’s brother means he’s undoubtedly having the shittier day here. Grantaire sinks deeper into his seat.

Dom’s apparently up for the fight, “Yeah, I do,” he says, spinning round in his seat.

The teacher in charge of the detention—a detention in existence solely because of Enjolras and Dominik’s violent feelings for each other—has wandered off on some errand and left them alone in an empty, unsupervised place. Grantaire thunks his head off the desk.

“What the fuck is your problem anyway?” Dominik asks Enjolras, “Are you like a homophobe or something? Because, like, I’ve seen Jehan, and I’ve got some fucking unfortunate news for you.” Dominik’s narrow face is flushed up to his ears and Grantaire is actually pretty proud of him. Dominik makes gay jokes, has homophobic parents, and is basically a simmering pot of internalised homophobia. He’s in the middle of his own bona-fide social justice breakthrough purely because Enjolras is being deeply weird.

Unfortunately there are few ideas in the world worse than suggesting to Enjolras that he’s a bigot.

“No you idiot,” Enjolras seethes. “I just don’t like you.”

That seems to take Dom aback but he rallies quickly, “Well I don’t like you either. And you know what? Neither does anyone else. You’re a creep who hasn’t got any friends except for your family, and that’s only because they haven’t got any other choice. You think you’re too good for everyone, so everyone hates you, they think you’re a stuck-up little bitch who’s way too obsessed with his brother to be normal, okay? You’re pathetic and I don’t like you either. So fuck off already, so I can get back to fucking your brother.”

Grantaire is too speechless about that last part to mount any sort of response but Enjolras stands up straight and rounds the desks. Dom shrinks a little as Enjolras leans over his desk till he’s inches from Dominik’s face. “Do you honestly think that I care what you or any of your friends say about me?” say Enjolras, cold as ice. “Do you honestly think that your opinion is even close to the worst thing to happen to me? I don’t care if you don’t like me. I don’t care. You’re worried I think I’m better than you? Well guess what, I do. And so does Grantaire. Right, Taire?”

Grantaire is in no way ready for that one, but manages to choke out a, “Sure do.”

Enjolras goes on shining brighter than the halogens or the afternoon sun outside. Dom is squinting. “You don’t know anything about me,” says Enjolras. “Why would your opinion matter to me in any way?”

Then he stands up straight, goes to his desk to collect his maths supplies, his rucksack, and a moderately stunned Grantaire, and storms out the room without looking back.

“We’re not actually supposed to…” Grantaire starts, not fighting Enjolras’s grip on his wrist.

“I don’t care,” says Enjolras. “Let’s skip out.”

Grantaire laughs wildly and throws an arm around Enjolras’s neck. “When did you get all big and scary?” he asks.

“I’ve always been big and scary,” says Enjolras, sun catching in his curls.

&

Without Dom’s house to go to after school and at the weekends, Grantaire spends more time in the house than he has since they first arrived. Everyone seems pretty happy about this development. Bahorel pesters Grantaire to box with him in the basement, where Javert’s set up a ring and some mats, so now they spend every Sunday morning hitting each other with boxing gloves on. Cosette climbs out and joins him on the rooftop at night time, and they huddle up under each others wings for warmth. Cosette’s big fluffy white-gold wings are, admittedly, much warmer than Grantaire’s sleek dark ones. She reads books and they share music through tinny earphones and Grantaire watches the stars and drinks from a bottle of whisky-mixed coke that Cosette tactfully ignores. Jehan drapes himself over him like a cat and then thoroughly ignores him in favour of whatever audiobook is holding his attention at the time. Courfeyrac makes him watch Singing In The Rain on what feels like an endless loop. Joly, Musichetta and Bossuet ensnare him in their terrible sci-fi shows, Combeferre drags him to the science museum on wet Sunday afternoons, and he and Feuilly go on architectural tours of the city. Enjolras seems happier than he has been in years.

Grantaire isn’t happy. He’s pretty sure he’s forgotten how to be happy at this point, and the lack of alcohol and recreational substances doesn’t help. But his family are happy, and that basically amounts to the same thing.

Eponine seems to have replaced him with a floppier, more upbeat best friend, but when Grantaire finally catches the way Eponine looks at Marius he can’t even bring himself to make jokes about it.

Marius is friends with Courfeyrac too - although really, who isn’t - and he gets on well with Combeferre. Grantaire can’t work out if Cosette doesn’t like him or if it’s just her natural shyness that makes her so quiet around him. Enjolras is polite to him, which given the Pontmercy family history of Tory MPs, is more than could be reasonably hoped for. Bahorel, Feuilly, Joly and Bossuet love nothing more than trying to convince Marius that they are actually a cult, and that they require blood sacrifices every full moon.

But Marius is round a lot, is the point. Grantaire isn’t particularly aware of him—he tends to hideout with Eponine in her room working on complicated computer things—but he washes up at meal times and on movie marathon nights. Cosette mentions something about him not getting on with his granddad and needing to get out of his house, but that’s the sum total of Grantaire’s knowledge on the subject.

As it turns out the rest of the flock isn’t particularly aware of him either, because one lunch time Bahorel wanders downstairs without his shirt on, wings unbound and outstretched, straight into the kitchen containing one very surprised Marius.

“Oops,” he says mildly. He licks his lips, casts around for inspiration and then summarises with. “Nope. Can’t think of any good ways out of this. Luck Ponine.” Then scarpers out of the kitchen before Eponine can throw anything at him, leaving her and Courfeyrac to bring Marius up to speed re: the flock. A bristling Javert is the one to impress upon him the importance of keeping all this very, very secret.

&

The teachers at the Corinthian are pretty intense about the whole ‘academic achievement’ thing, so it’s not like the final year of school and it’s associated exams took Grantaire by surprise, per se. But the all-encompassing exam-fuelled insanity that is unleashed upon his house in Year 13 is a little surprising, not to mention deeply irritating, as it makes his attempts to utterly ignore the existence of things like ‘measurements of academic worth’ completely impossible

By the fourth week in term, Courfeyrac, Joly and Cosette have all cried messily into Grantaire’s shoulder for reasons relating to the volume of homework, the difficulty of homework, or just general feelings of inadequacy, Grantaire finds it difficult to tell. Even more concerning is the number of people who have to be emotionally or physically out-of-order for Grantaire to be the first line of defence in comforting random members of the flock. Combeferre has developed a nervous tick under his left eye and Musichetta now has the hard-jawed long-staring look of a war vet. Grantaire is eternally thankful for Bahorel and Bossuet’s laissez faire attitude to life because otherwise he’s pretty sure he’d have been struck down by some kind of sympathy-induced cardiac event one month into the term.

“Duck!” shouts Grantaire around a mouthful of Jehan’s gelatine-free gummy sweets.

“Fucking fuckity fuck,” replies Bahorel swerving his whole body to the left as his little on-screen pixel person gets hacked to a grisly death. Bossuet’s laugh turns into a groan as he too is swept up in the impending slaughter.

At this moment Grantaire gets hit by actual, real-life friendly fire in the form of Feuilly’s maths textbook, which smacks him in the back of the head, making him simultaneously drop the controller and choke on his gummy sweets.

“I. Can’t. Fucking. Do. This,” hisses Feuilly, hands tugging at his wild ginger hair.

Grantaire gurgles sympathetically and Bahorel tries to fumble through Grantaire’s wings to smack him on the back.

Grantaire hits him back, still choking.

“What’s wrong?” he asks, eyes watering, back protesting from Bahorel’s wallop, gag reflex still objecting to the whole aspiration-of-solid-objects bit.

“Fucking, maths!” Feuilly seethes, “Fucking. Fucking. Fucking. Maths. I need to get an A if I want to do architecture. Even though trig has fuck all to do with building houses. And I can’t do it.”

“Actually-” begins Bossuet, but cuts himself off at Bahorel and Grantaire’s twin looks of horror. Thankfully Feuilly doesn’t notice.

“I’ll do it for you, give me your notebook-” Grantaire raises his hands in pre-emptive surrender, “-Like a human person. No throwing.”

“Sorry,” says Feuilly, perching on the arm of the couch and burying his head in his hands, “I was just trying not to hit Bossuet. I’ve done the work now. It’ll probably be wrong, but it’s done. I’m just so sick of it. It takes me all fucking night to do, like, an hours worth of homework.”

Grantaire makes his, sucks bro, face. He’s all empathied out, and now he can’t even chew some gummy worms and kill Bahorel in peace.

“Just get Grantaire to do it,” says Bahorel, “Or I will, whatever,” he adds when Grantaire gives him a flat look.

“If I get Taire to do it, I’ll never get any better,” sighs Feuilly. “Not that I will anyway. I don’t know what I’m going to do. My brain just isn’t built for this.”

Eponine and Marius traipse in, interrupting the well-tread conversation of Feuilly’s academic woes. Eponine makes a disgusted noise when she sees them occupying the games console. “We want to play on it,” she whines.

“But I’m winning!” says Bossuet, without taking his eyes off the screen.

Bahorel and Grantaire both turn around, baffled, “Sweets, we’re not playing any more.”

“I don’t care!” crows Bossuet, “I’m winning! I never win!”

He glances away from the screen in excitement and everyone flinches simultaneously.

“Oooh,” says Bahorel, speaking for the room.

“Did you just… Shoot yourself?” Marius asks incredulously.

“I’m done now Ep,” sighs Bossuet, dropping his controller to the ground.

“No really,” persists Marius. “That shouldn’t be possible.”

“Marius,” says Grantaire, “If Bossuet had won the game it would absolutely be a sign of the end of days and we would all be running right now.”

“Ponine,” says Bahorel, as Eponine moves round to insert her new game in the console. “We’re not moving, so if you’re putting something in there it better not be something you’ll get pissed about Bossuet fucking up.”

“Why?” says Eponine exasperatedly.

“Have you seen the rest of this house?” asks Grantaire, “The dead are fucking walking, Eponine. I’m not leaving this room without, like, a hazmat suit.”

Bossuet nods seriously.

“Look,” adds Bahorel, indicating to Feuilly, who’s still sitting with his head in his hands. “One of them even got in.”

Eponine looks Feuilly up and down, taking in the tracksuit bottoms he hasn’t changed out of in two weeks, “Very scary,” she sneers.

“Hey, you weren’t here for the projectiles,” says Grantaire, wounded.

“What about you, young Marius,” asks Bahorel, now attempting to take one of Grantaire’s rightfully stolen sweets, which is just not on, something Grantaire communicates by shoving all the sweets into his mouth simultaneously. “Shouldn’t you be at home cramming for the evil exams?”

“I, uh,” Marius starts, blushing. “My granddad-”

“You can just ignore Bahorel when he says things,” says Eponine matter-of-factly. “The rest of us do.”

Grantaire nods vigorously.

“Woooo,” Joly trills into the room, followed by a less-enthusiastic (if only by necessity) Musichetta, “Sweets texted to say movie night, what are we watching?”

Eponine scowls at Bossuet who smiles sunnily at the ceiling. “We’re not watching anything, me and Marius are playing the new Fallout game. The rest of you are fucking off.”

“Mad Max,” chants Bahorel. “Mad Max, Mad Max, Mad Max,”

Musichetta joins in and Grantaire makes unpleasant noises instead of chanting because he’s having difficulty swallowing at the present time.

Eponine sighs heavily. “Fine. But I hate all of you.”

“Noted,” mumbles Grantaire gooely.

Eponine gives him a look of unparalleled disgust and elbows in next to him on the couch. Marius perches delicately on the seat furthest from the door, like he’s somehow afraid of breaking the chair with actual burn marks on it from that incident last spring with the flaming marshmallows. Feuilly slides off the arm-rest into the space between Bahorel and the chair, much to Bahorel’s vocal discomfort. The unholy trinity settle on the single armchair in their usual chaos of limbs.

Cosette pokes her head round the door with a smile and a, “What are we watching?”

A few months ago Cosette convinced Myriel to put her on super-strength anti-acne drugs and now her skin is clear of spots, and at some point after that she and Musichetta bought up half of Boots in their quest to find a product that worked for Cosette’s flyaway curls. Now she’s got the skin and hair of a porcelain doll, and—most noticeably— she’s actually beginning to walk around without looking like she wants to disappear through the floor. Grantaire isn’t sure if that’s to do with the ballet or the self confidence, but it’s the final element in the perfect storm and he noticed about a week ago that his gangly, awkward sister is actually… Kind of beautiful.

She’s barefoot, wearing Bahorel’s skater shorts and some geeky sweater of Combeferre’s with a chemistry joke on it, hair soft and loose over her cotton-covered shoulders. Her legs are pale and dusted with blond hair, her feet delicate and small.

Grantaire feels Eponine stiffen next to him and turns to see her watching Marius.

Marius is staring at Cosette like she’s made the world stop turning.

&

The awful thing about loving these people so much and for so long is that everyone in the room is—to a greater or lesser extent—aware of the fidgeting distance between Marius and Cosette on their couch, and of the cloud of despair that has just enveloped Eponine. The more socially tone deaf among them—Joly and Bossuet in particular—are just aware that Something Awkward is happening. And, given the frequency with which awkwardness comes up in the day-to-day lives of thirteen maladapted teenagers living on top of one another, it makes sense to ignore it for the sake of enjoying the movie. Combeferre and Courfeyrac, on the other hand, look in from the hallway as the opening sequence plays and Eponine starts to subtly wipe angry tears from her eyes, and bid a retreat so hasty Courfeyrac nearly breaks his foot.

Enjolras wanders in past them, genuinely doesn’t seem to notice the atmosphere, then settles on the floor against Grantaire’s legs. Grantaire ruffles his hair fondly and pulls out his phone to try and guilt Courfeyrac and Combeferre into dealing with the emerging problem. 





Enjolras peers at Grantaire’s phone before slipping it out of his hold and adding himself into the chat.





At which point Enjolras turns fully round to face Grantaire and says, “The what?” and Bahorel says, “No secret text chats unless I’m invited, we’ve discussed this,” without looking away from the dude with the flame-throwing electric guitar currently taking up the whole screen.

“You want to read Taire and Enj’s secret texts?” asks Feuilly dully. “Personally I could stand to know a little less.”

Eponine shakes her head minutely, then stands up and walks out.

Grantaire, Feuilly and Bahorel exchange glances.

Cosette doesn’t seem to notice - her and Marius are talking shyly about their favourite Tom Hardy movie.

Grantaire stands up, dislodging a disgruntled Enjolras, and follows Eponine out. Bahorel and Feuilly trail reluctantly after him.

“Where are you going?” asks Cosette.

“Er,” says Bahorel.

“Jehan related emergency,” completes Grantaire, which earns him understanding nods from Joly and Bossuet, and a suspicious squint from Musichetta.

&

They do indeed find Eponine in Jehan’s room, head on his lap, Jehan stroking her hair absently as he quietly recites Russian verbs.

When Grantaire, Feuilly and Bahorel arrive at his doorway he says dryly, without missing a beat, “Oh good, the cavalry.”

Feuilly and Bahorel throw themselves onto the remaining space on Jehan’s bed. Grantaire scowls and slouches into the desk chair, spinning it idly with his toes.

Eponine is not happy with this development. “You left them alone together?” she hisses, red eyed.

“Er,” says Grantaire.

“Nah,” says Feuilly, “We left the unholy trinity. And Enjolras.”

At this point Enjolras wanders past the door, does a double take, then pokes his head in, casting an eye about.

“I don’t know what’s going on,” Enjolras says. “But I’ll be with Combeferre and Courfeyrac if anyone needs me.”

“Oh good,” snaps Eponine, “Well at least we’ve got you on standby.”

Enjolras raises his hands and backs away as Grantaire shoots him an apologetic glance. “Well, like I said,” Enjolras says stubbornly.

“So just Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet then,” says Eponine bitterly, then subsides into silence.

"As third wheels go, they're about as good as it gets," points out Bahorel.

“You wanna… Talk about it?” asks Feuilly, looking a bit green. It’s the biggest testament to his familial love that Grantaire’s ever seen.

“No. Yes. Seriously, what the fucking fuck,” spits Eponine.

Bahorel and Feuilly exchange a glance and Grantaire rubs his face. Jehan hums agreeably.

“Like, seriously?” Eponine says again, “It’s not like he’s never seen her before.”

Grantaire can see Jehan repressing the urge to say something romantic like, ‘it only takes a glance’.

“Are you sure that this is as bad as you think?” asks Feuilly reasonably. Grantaire thinks that’s a bad line of comfort to go with because it generally is. “So Marius has a crush on Cos. So what? That doesn’t mean she likes him.”

Eponine looks at him like he’s unfathomably stupid, and says shortly, “She does.”

“Oh, shit,” says Jehan mildly.

“Wait, you both like him?” Bahorel looks frankly boggled, “Him?”

“Shhh,” Jehan chides.

“Why don’t you… Tell her?” Feuilly asks hesitantly. “It’s Cos. She can’t know that you like him, or else…”

He doesn’t say, or else she’d never so much as look at him, she’d never put herself before Eponine. They all think it.

“She doesn’t know,” says Eponine, “I don’t want her to know. I didn’t want him to know, it would ruin it.”

“Not necessarily,” says Jehan gently.

“Well it doesn’t fucking matter now, does it?” Eponine snaps.

“Well on the plus side, I guarantee you that Bossuet will not leave that room,” says Grantaire. “If not because of his horrific sense of timing than at least because the holy trinity’s abiding love of explosions can’t be tampered by, like, social awkwardness.”

“Unless Cosette’s good luck is stronger than Bossuet’s bad luck,” muses Bahorel. “Always wanted to put those two to war and see what happens.”

Eponine’s look is vicious.

“Maybe not the time,” suggests Jehan mildly.

Grantaire texts Musichetta in an effort to maybe stop the flames of this social fire from raging out of control.





He gets a text in from Enjolras simultaneously.





Grantaire swears profusely and texts Bossuet.





Grantaire closes his eyes and when he opens them, Eponine’s own red-rimmed ones are looking back, devastated.

&

Next Thursday finds the exams another inch closer, Marius and Cosette officially an item and Eponine more miserable than Grantaire has ever seen her. Javert and Valjean are both still at work, which isn't unusual for either of them. Prior to adopting thirteen kids, Grantaire thinks they were both probably lonely workaholics, and sometimes they still forget to stop working past a certain time of night. Mrs Hauche no longer feels the need to prepare and supervise every meal time for fear of botulism and/or murder, so they’re eating something tasty and quorn-based that Jehan and Musichetta have made.

“Doves were always my favourite animal,” says Marius, sotto voice, fingers trailing over Cosette’s feathers.

“Cos is part lark,” snaps Eponine, stabbing viciously at a boiled potato and making her fork screech on the plate.

Jehan makes a noise like a stood-on cat and Joly says cheerfully, “You know doves and pigeons are the same species?”

“We know,” Feuilly and Bahorel drone

“But we treat them completely differently,” Joly continues. “Like, doves are celebratory, for weddings and stuff, but people don’t like pigeons? Isn’t that weird?”

Marius makes a baffled kind of noise of agreement.

“I’m part pigeon,” Joly confides in him seriously .

Marius looks around interestedly, “So you know what types of birds you share DNA with?”

“Sure,” says Courfeyrac with a grin, “I’m a nightingale.”

”Kingfisher,” says Musichetta, pointing to herself.

”What about you, Jehan?” asks Marius, looking nervous to be interacting with Jehan but curious nonetheless. “Yours are so cool-“ 

”Mine are from a pennant-winged nightjar,” says Jehan with a small smile. “People used to think they turned goats blind, you know. And they called them corpse birds, because they thought the souls of unbaptised children had to stay as nightjars til judgement day.”

Marius gapes soundlessly like a fish out of water, visibly regretting his choice to engage.

”Cool,” scoffs Feuilly. “When I think about Jehan’s wings, my first thought isn’t cool, it’s walking trip-hazard.” Bossuet nods frantically in agreement. 

”No need to get jealous, Feu,” says Bahorel with a smirk.

”How many times-“ Feuilly bursts out, enraged. 

”Feuilly is a seagull,” Grantaire tells Marius, grinning. “Watch out for your chips.”

”I like Feuilly’s wings,” says Bossuet seriously. “They’re cooler than just brown.”

”Don’t sell yourself short, Sweets. You’re the national bird of Amurica! That’s got to count for something!” Courfeyrac says. 

”Yeah!” says Bahorel. “We birds of prey have gotta stick together Bossuet!” He turns to Marius and says proudly, “I’m a red kite. Nice normal bird that likes to eat road kill. Not like these fancy birds of paradise.” Here he waves dismissively at Enjolras, who scowls dramatically. 

Marius looks like he wants to ask but can’t quite find the nerve.

Grantaire sputters with laughter. “It’s the most unsubtle thing you’re ever gonna hear in your life, ready? Enjolras is a golden-winged sunbird.” He grins and nudges Enjolras, who reluctantly smiles back. 

”I’m a tawny owl,” offers Combeferre mildly. 

“Crow,” says Grantaire, raising his hand, “Specifically a raven. And yes, I do get the best collective noun.”

Marius looks blank and Jehan fills in with the helpfully vague, “Murder.”

“What about you, Ep?” asks Marius, “You’ve never said.”

“Me and Gav are magpies,” says Eponine dully, not looking up from her plate.

“Go! Team! Corvidae!” chants Grantaire.

“When did you learn the genus names for the bird species?” asks Combeferre, amused.

“More importantly, when did your sense of humour get so lame?” asks Feuilly, not amused.

“Wait, so are you and Gavroche actually brother and sister? Like, biologically?” Marius asks. He looks like he’s finally noticing Eponine’s silent treatment, which at least confirms that he’s got the intelligence of something bigger than a single-celled organism. Maybe like multi-cellular plankton of some kind.

“Yeah,” says Eponine.

“Speaking of, where is Gav?” asks Bahorel.

“Er,” says Grantaire. “He texted me to say that he was staying out tonight? I told him that was fine.” Everyone turns to look at him.

“And I was wrong,” he adds slowly.

Feuilly rolls his eyes expansively.

“Wait, so where is he?” asks Cosette, concern creeping in round her mouth.

“At a friends?” Grantaire hazards.

“Grantaire, it’s a school night!”

“Someone’s in trouble,” Bahorel singsongs.

“Wait, is it me?” Grantaire asks.

“Always,” murmurs Enjolras into his glass of water. Grantaire kicks him. But like, gently.

“Did he say anything to you?” Cosette asks Eponine, confusion clear in her voice at Eponine’s lack of perceptible reaction.

“Nope,” says Eponine, making steady eye contact with her potatoes.

“So…” Cosette says, before audibly crushing her frustration. “Okay, well. I’m a bit annoyed with him, anyway.”

“Fine.”

Cosette boggles at Eponine and everyone else makes do something expressions at Combeferre and Courfeyrac. 

Marius checks his watch awkwardly then startles, “Crap!” he says, jumping up from the table and knocking over his empty glass. “Oh no, sorry. I didn’t realise that was the time. I need to go! Erm. Okay. So. Thank you so much for dinner!”

Musichetta smiles,”You’re welcome,” and Jehan makes uncannily accurate finger guns.

Marius looks back down at Cosette and seems to get caught staring at her, a habit which is starting to become embarrassingly commonplace. He bends down and kisses her, fingers just brushing her cheek and no more, then starts away, like he’s forgotten the time again. “Okay, ah. I love you! Goodnight!” he says, in one garbled rush, then sprints out the door.

 &

Eponine sets down her glass with a thump that coincides with the front door slamming shut. The rest of the table is uncomfortably silent.

“So,” says Eponine, gaze settling on Cosette for the first time all night. “He loves you?”

Cosette blushes, “He’s never said that before. I think it just kind of… Fell out. He’ll be freaking out right now, I bet.” Her smile goes warm and Eponine’s face goes dark.

“Right,” she says, standing up to dump her plate in the dishwasher. “Don’t you think it’s a bit early for I love yous?”

Cosette doesn’t say anything, just presses her lips together. Cosette doesn’t argue back, as a rule, which is why it’s so very difficult to win an argument with her - it’s deeply unsatisfying to shout at someone who just watches you with endless love and patience.

“Hey,” gentles Courfeyrac. “Who doesn’t love a bit of teenage romance. If you can’t have love at first sight when you’re 17, when can you have it?”

Beside him, Combeferre winces minutely. Opposite him, Eponine flinches outright.

Under the table, Enjolras’s hand feels clumsily for Grantaire’s and holds on tight.

“We just feel like,” starts Cosette hesitantly. “Feelings this strong can’t be… Well. They can’t be unimportant.”

“So it’s we?” Eponine asks, “I thought it was just him. Don’t tell me you love him?”

“I-” begins Cosette.

The front door rattles again and in tumbles Gavroche, to the relief of just about everyone alive on the planet, it feels like.

Cosette turns on him, already shaken from Eponine’s interrogation and asks, “Where were you?” with a bit more tearfulness than Gavroche is obviously expecting.

“I was just at Jo’s,” says Gavroche, bewildered and defensive right off the bat. “I told Grantaire.”

“You told Grantaire because you knew he wouldn’t give you in trouble!” says Cosette. “I’m not trying to be mean here, Gav, but it’s late and we were worried. You have school tomorrow!”

“Grantaire always skips school!” Gavroche protests. “How come it’s one rule for him and another for me?”

“Oh sure, just hurl me right on under that bus,” mutters Grantaire. “No problem Gav. No one was shouting at me for a few minutes I can see how you’d get confused.”

“We’re not talking about Grantaire,” says Cosette loudly over Grantaire’s mutterings. “We’re talking about you. But, incidentally, when you can ace any test that gets put down in front of you without even reading the textbook, you’re welcome to skip as much class as you like.”

“Whatever,” says Gavroche, making to stomp off to his room.

Cosette flares her wings and bars his path. “Gav, I’m talking to you, please. You’ve been late out almost every night this week. What’s going on?”

Gavroche opens his mouth to speak but before he can Eponine throws her chair back with a shriek that has Jehan rolling his eyes up to heaven.

“Enough,” she snarls, rounding the table on Cosette. “Gav, go to your room.” Gav scarpers out of the room fast. If Jehan’s head-tilt is anything to go by, Gavroche doesn’t actually make much progress once he hits the hallway.

“Stop bossing him around like you’re his mother,” says Eponine. “It’s not cute. Valjean and Javert are in charge. If they have a problem with him staying out, they’ll say so. It’s not up to you. It doesn’t have anything to do with you.”

“What-” Cosette begins, bewildered. “Of course it has to do with me, he’s my brother!”

“But he’s not, really, is he,” Eponine says bluntly. “He’s mine. He’s my brother, not yours. My blood, my genes, my brother.”

“Eponine!” Musichetta snaps. Cosette is standing, stricken still, eyes overflowing with tears. “That’s enough. You know that’s not true.”

“It is so,” says Eponine mulishly. Musichetta is out the seat and across the room in a few seconds. Eponine takes a swaying step back.

“Apologise,” she says quietly. “And take it back. Cosette can’t hear lies, remember? She is your fucking sister, she is our sister. You don’t get to treat her like this, not for some stupid boy. I love you, Ponine, but you owe Cosette better. She’s never done anything to deserve this.” Her manner is strange, steely and sympathetic in equal measure, with a singular intensity.

“No,” says Eponine, starting to look trapped and feral around the edges. “Oh no, never that! Cosette doesn’t deserve anything bad. She has everything!” . Most of the kitchen flinches but Musichetta stands unmoved. “I love him. I love him. And I spend every day with him and one day he just walks in and looks at her, and he’s fucking in love? Just because that’s what she wants, and God forbid the universe not give Cosette everything she wants. Why does she get everything? Why do I have to be the one to walk around next to someone who’s always smarter and prettier and more-” Eponine chokes on a sob, “More everything. Always just better. And now she gets Marius, and it’s not fair, I loved him first!” 

Cosette has tears pouring down her face but she hasn’t backed away. “You didn’t tell me,” she says, “You didn’t tell me, Ponine! I can’t read your mind! I can’t… You told me you were fine, that school was getting you down. I didn’t think you lied to me, Ponine.”

“I had to lie!” shouts Eponine. “I had to lie, because otherwise you would have told him no, and that would be awful, you two tiptoeing around me, like, Cosette’s pathetic sister has a crush on me so we can’t date just now. I can’t-”

“What do you want me to do?” Cosette asks softly. “I love you Eponine. So much more than him. More than anyone. What do you want me to do?”

Eponine shakes her head. “Nothing,” she says dully. “I want to stop being myself. Jesus, I hate you sometimes. If our situations were reversed, you’d have fucking. You’d have smiled the whole way to the fucking maid of honour speech. You’d have been so happy for me. What the fuck is wrong with you.”

Cosette shakes her head wordlessly, expression utterly compassionate, not a trace of offence or hurt.

“I love you,” she says simply. “I’ll always choose your happiness over mine.”

 Eponine gazes wordlessly at Cosette for a few long moments, tears glistening on her cheeks. “If I was Marius, I’d choose you too,” she says. Then she shakes her head walks out and into the night, leaving the door open behind her. Cosette shoves her feet into a pair of Bahorel’s Doc Martens lying by the door, which together with her floaty white summer dress and wild-eyed expression give her a bit of a Bronte look.

“Cos,” starts Courfeyrac. “Are you sure…” 

“Like Chetta said,” says Cosette, jaw set, eyes blazing with determination. “I’m not losing Eponine over some boy.” The door closes gently behind her with a snick.

&7


Combeferre is still throwing up in the bathroom by the time Jehan has made a large pot of tea and Bahorel has gotten Gavroche to stop crying.

“I swear my tolerance for this stuff used to be higher,” says Combeferre, looking pale and sweaty on the bathroom floor. Courfeyrac is curled up next to him, in contrast to everyone else who is trying to get as far away as possible.

“Guess you’ll have to start hanging out with me more,” says Grantaire with a grin. “Keep up your tolerance for misery.”

Combeferre doesn’t smile back, just stares at Grantaire for a moment then clunks his head back against the bathroom wall. “I saw that whole fight coming. For years I’ve seen it coming,” he says, “But there was nothing I could do.”

“Poor Cos,” mumbles Courfeyrac.

“Poor Eponine,” sighs Musichetta.

“You saw it all coming?” asks Bahorel, squinting at Combeferre. “Where did all that stuff about being pretty or whatever come from? When did she get a chip in her shoulder about that?”

”It’s not about being pretty,” says Musichetta, frowning. “It’s about the fact that the world is nicer to Cosette than it is to Eponine.”

”In fairness,” says Bahorel. “Cosette is also nicer to the world than Eponine.”

Musichetta fixes him with a stare than could melt steel. “Hey, Rel? When you’re a seventeen year old, 5 foot tall Asian girl living in central London, you can make moral judgements about how nice Eponine is to people. Until then, I think you’d better keep your opinions about it to yourself.”

Bahorel boggles at her. “Wait, Asian? Why the fuck are we talking about that right now?” 

”Why shouldn’t we be?” asks Joly, frowning.


”I just-“ Bahorel flails, “I didn’t think race stuff mattered with us? We weren’t even aware of race until we were like, what, thirteen?”

“Oh my god,” says Courfeyrac, raising his eyes to the heavens. Combeferre, still hunched over the toilet, is starting to look more unwell again.

”Half our family are non-white, Bahorel,” says Enjolras. “I don’t think it’s your place to decide whether ‘race stuff’ matters to them.”

“Imagine race not mattering,” says Joly to Bossuet, seemingly genuinely amused.

”Oh what a world,” says Bossuet with a chuckle.

Bahorel looks between the two of them, bewildered. 

”My parents were Spanish and I sometimes get comments on the tube, Bahorel,” says Courfeyrac with a sigh, patting Combeferre sympathetically on the back as he dry heaves. “You know that, you’ve seen it! You punched somebody’s tooth out in school for calling me a slur once, remember?” 

”He’s not saying racism doesn’t exist,” says Feuilly defensively. “He’s saying it’s never mattered with us. Other people being assholes never mattered as long as we had each others backs!”

”Well it does matter,” says Musichetta shortly. “We live in London. We live in the world. It can do just as much damage as the Institute. It doesn’t do us any favours to ignore that for the sake of your feelings. The world is harder on Eponine, in a lot of ways. You’re doing her a disservice if you don’t realise that.”

“Tea!” calls Jehan authoritatively, breaking the silence left behind by Musichetta’s declaration, thumping the massive teapot down in the middle of the table. “Get in here, Gavroche. Someone hug him, my hands are full.”

They all shuffle back out into the kitchen and settle round the dining table.

Gavroche comes in and is immediately enveloped in a bear hug from Bahorel. “They’ll make up, alright?” Bahorel says, ruffling his hair. 

Standing up, Gavroche is still smaller than a sitting Bahorel. He frowns, looking miserable, “I don’t get it. Is this my fault? Or.. or Marius’s?”

“It’s not your fault at all, Gav,” says Courfeyrac

“And it’s not Marius’s either.” sighs Combeferre. “It’s not even really about Marius. It’s just… Eponine’s having a tough time right now.”

Gavroche wrinkles his nose, “Why?”

There’s silence as everyone mentally tags themselves not it. Combeferre looks at Grantaire, who gives him a flat look.

“She just… Is,” he says, with difficulty. “Sometimes people are just unhappy, Gav. No one needs to be to blame.”

“Sadness, anger,” Jehan says, running his fingers around the rim of his mug restlessly. “They can get into a person’s soul, colour their whole world dark.”

Grantaire can feel Enjolras’s eyes on him.

“How do you stop it?” asks Gavroche, “How do you make it better?”

Combeferre sighs, “I… I don’t know, Gav. I think, maybe-“

Grantaire leaves the kitchen before he can hear the end of the sentence.

&

Cosette and Marius split up the next morning. Three days later Eponine shoves Cosette out the door for a date with Marius, scowling, “It’s even worse when you’re both miserable, go away and make up with him.”

“I didn’t actually know I could feel this bad,” says Eponine philosophically, voice dull, knees tucked up under her chin on Jehan’s bed. “Like guilty and humiliated and inadequate and a shit sister, all rolled into one.”

“That’s more emotions than I feel in a whole day,” Bahorel informs her, licking his spoon, piled high ice cream.

Feuilly snorts and steals the tub of ice cream. The only reason this doesn’t escalate to full-out war is that Jehan kicks Bahorel on the shin and gives him a not now kind of look.

“Well, lets, like, problem solve this shit,” Feuilly says, digging into the ice cream with repulsive zeal, “You feel guilty because you upset Cosette, but you apologised and she forgave you, like, instantly. You feel humiliated because why? The only people who know are us, Ep. And we know you. You can’t, like, make us think any worse of you.”

“Not any more than we already do,” adds Bahorel helpfully.

“You could be an axe murderer and we’d still be kinda obligated to help you hide the bodies,” says Feuilly.

“Although, like, please don’t be,” says Grantaire.

“ You’re not inadequate,” says Jehan softly, “And honestly? I would never let anyone call my sister inadequate, so don’t say it again.”

“You’re also not a shit sister,” says Grantaire. “Don’t tell anyone but you’re actually kind of my favourite.”

Eponine takes a second, then shoots round to look at him in bewilderment. “You’re not lying,” she says.

Grantaire shrugs, “Hey, I love y’all equally but I’m just saying, you win the desert island draw.”

“Pretty sure you and Eponine on a desert island is the plot of a Pirates of the Caribbean film,” says Bahorel.

Eponine sniffs, “We would make great pirates.”

“We’d make the best pirates,” Grantaire confirms. He steals the ice cream from Feuilly and gives it to Eponine with a grin.

&

When exam season finally hits, Cosette and Eponine have returned to something like their normal selves. This is good because just about everyone else has lost their fucking minds, as far as Grantaire is concerned.

“Move, move, move,” chants Enjolras from the bottom of the stairs, as Grantaire drags his leather jacket on reluctantly.

“We do not have to leave this early,” Grantaire complains to Feuilly, who’s got the kind of mile-long stare that usually goes along with death by firing squad.

“We have to be there 30 minutes early,” says Enjolras, “It says so in the hand-out. Have you got everything?”

Grantaire digs a single pen from his pocket, and displays it like a magician. It immediately leaks ink onto his fingers and he wipes them hastily on his jeans.

Enjolras closes his eyes as if he’s in deep pain. “Where’s your card?” he asks.

“My card?” Grantaire repeats.

Feuilly buries his head in his hands. Next to him, Combeferre is reading An Encyclopaedia of Moths as some form of emotional coping mechanism, thoroughly ignoring them all.

“The card with your student ID on it, to match you to the correct paper?” Enjolras says, with strained patience.

“Ah, this card?” Grantaire digs the little laminated card out of his other pocket. Enjolras looks thoroughly relieved.

“That one.”

Valjean comes in from the kitchen where he’s been trying to make a jittery Joly eat something. “Good luck you lot,” he says with a smile. “Not that you’ll need it. I know how hard you’ve all been working.”

“Just do your best and you’ll be fine,” rumbles Javert, on his way out to work. “No one can ask any more from you than that.”

Feuilly’s lip is bleeding from being bitten. Javert frowns, passes him his handkerchief, but doesn’t comment.

Grantaire sits jammed between Enjolras and Feuilly in the backseat of the cab as they make their way to the school.

Enjolras’s fingers are cold on Grantaire’s, but he doesn’t say anything, just stares down at his English notes, mouthing silently to himself.

“I need As,” says Feuilly quietly to Grantaire. “That’s what all the provisional acceptances all say. What if I don’t get them?”

“You will,” Grantaire assures him. “This is English, you’re good with English.”

“Yeah, but I need A’s in all of them,” he moans quietly.

The exam goes fine, as far as Grantaire’s concerned—he finishes quickly and gets bored, so asks to leave the exam hall early. He kills time waiting for the others by chatting to the students hanging around on their free period, and convincing them to lend him cigarettes he has no intention of ever giving back.

“How did it go?” Grantaire asks them, stubbing out the cigarette quickly when Enjolras shoots him a horrified look.

“Fine,” says Feuilly, “better than I thought it would.” He looks, conversely, worse than he did on actually going into the exam, shaky and sick.

Grantaire doesn’t ask; Maths is next week.

Combeferre and Enjolras discuss every question in detail on the way home, jittery with each confirmed success. Next to Grantaire, Feuilly gets quieter and quieter.

&

It’s 3am on the morning of the Maths test and Feuilly is a nervous wreck of himself.

“I can’t do this,” he says, feet bouncing, hands rubbing together, “I honestly can’t fucking do this. I can’t do this. I can’t sleep, I can’t concentrate, I can’t, I can’t.”

Feuilly darts to his feet and starts pacing again, from the desk straining beneath piles of notes and textbooks, past Grantaire and Bahorel (his eyes are closed but he’s still grunting disagreeably when Feuilly says something self-deprecating so Grantaire’s sure he’s like, mostly conscious) to the window, then back.

Feuilly looks down at the desk, shuffles some papers about, swallows hard and turns away again distractedly. Bahorel yawns so widely that Grantaire is pretty sure jaw dislocation is a serious risk.

“You should go to sleep,” Feuilly says suddenly to Grantaire and Bahorel. You guys shouldn’t be dealing with this. You have to be up in six hours too.”

“Go sleep in my bed,” Grantaire tells Bahorel, “I’ll stay here tonight.”

“Will Enjolras try to cuddle me?” Bahorel asks warily.

“Almost definitely,” Grantaire says, “But you actually want to do something with your life, so your grades tomorrow are important.”

Bahorel rolls his eyes but doesn’t argue, just throws himself to his feet and stands in front of Feuilly, blocking the path he’s wearing through the carpet. He presses his forehead to Feuilly’s, his dark tan presses against Feuilly’s pale, freckled skin. “You will be fine,” Bahorel intones. “You’ve got this.”

Feuilly looks abruptly like he’s going to cry, and pushes Bahorel away and out the room. Then it’s just him and Grantaire.

“You know you might eventually want to do something with your life,” says Feuilly with a deep sigh. “Just because you’re not applying to Uni this year, doesn’t mean you never will.”

Grantaire shrugs his shoulders, “It all sounds a bit too much like hard work to be honest,” he says, lying back on Feuilly’s bed.

Feuilly shakes his head with a humourless laugh, “Why are you so against working hard?” he asks. “Doesn’t it make you feel good, to achieve stuff?”

“No,” says Grantaire shortly. “And stop sounding like Enjolras, you’re creeping me out.”

“I just can’t believe I’ve worked so hard and I’m going to fail,” says Feuilly softly. “I tried, Taire, I really tried.”

“You have tried,” says Grantaire, “I’ve watched you try. Now it’s over, okay? There’s nothing you can do now that will change what’s going to happen tomorrow.”

Feuilly rubs his eyes ferociously. “In some ways I’m glad,” he admits. “Even failing can’t feel as bad as knowing I’m going to fail. At least I can forget about it. All of it.”

“Sure,” says Grantaire, “Me and you can start a bar together, it’ll be great fun.”

Feuilly tries to smile but doesn’t quite manage to communicate the impulse with his face.

Grantaire laughs and grabs the nearest sheet of paper from Feuilly’s desk. The equation goes wrong two lines down, where Feuilly has obviously misread a seven as a one and continued on from there. Grantaire doesn’t comment and instead folds the sheet into a wonky paper airplane and throws it at Feuilly’s head.

“Let’s make an origami solar system,” says Grantaire, “You’ve got the paper for it.”

Feuilly casts a dubious glance at his piles of notes and nods slowly.

&

Feuilly and Grantaire wake up in a pile of white and black origami stars and planets to the sound of Enjolras banging the door open. “Grantaire! I spent most of last night cuddling Bahorel, he took photos, will you tell me before you switch with people?!”

Mostly-asleep Grantaire actually wakes himself up laughing at that.

He stops laughing when he sees Feuilly jump straight back into the panic it took Grantaire three hours to wind him down from last night.

“Fuck, fuck, fuck,” mutters Feuilly, grabbing armfuls of stars and unravelling them, squinting at the pages of writing.

Grantaire gives Enjolras a long-suffering look.

“Fuck, where’s my ID card?” Feuilly says, sweeping stars around in a panic.

“It’s right there, chill,” sighs Grantaire, pointing at the desk. “Come downstairs and stop freaking out. Maybe Valjean will have made pancakes.”

The taxi ride to school is worse than any of the previous. Thankfully Grantaire shotgunned and therefore doesn’t have to sit next to a vibrating Feuilly for twenty minutes.

Enjolras accompanies Grantaire all the way to his seat. “What, are you afraid I’m going to try and escape?” Grantaire laughs.

“Stop leaving after ten minutes,” says Enjolras, “You’ve got nothing else to do, the extra hour of sitting in an exam hall won’t kill you.”

“Hey,” says Grantaire, “I stayed for a whole half hour of my Greek exam.”

“And skipped design technology,” hisses Enjolras.

“I wrote a full essay for philosophy,” argues Grantaire.

Enjolras points a warning finger at him, “If I find out you wrote that essay on… On… Nihilism as a life choice or something, I will kill you.”

Grantaire laughs loudly in the tensely quiet exam hall. He feels Dominik’s scowl on him from the next row over.

“Quiet,” says the invigilator, “Everyone take your seats.”

Grantaire gives Enjolras an amused look and Enjolras storms off to find his own seat, leaving Grantaire to copy out his eight digit ID number and wait in silence for the clock to turn 8.30 so he can turn the page.

&

When they get out, Feuilly seems to have moved beyond tears, to a point of resigned horror.

Combeferre flinches when he sees him.

“So,” Feuilly says when he sees Grantaire, “I guess we better get working on a plan for that bar.”

Grantaire just slings his arm over Feuilly’s shoulder and presses a can of coke into his hand. Feuilly looks like he’s been involved in some kind of traumatic car accident. “Hey man, it’s the summer holidays. Take a breath. It’s over.”

&

Results come out on the 8th of August, and the postman gets the pile of envelopes to their house so fast, Grantaire is sure that Javert has bribed them. Grantaire is not happy about this development. The whole point of not being in school anymore is that he doesn’t have to wake up before 7am.

Valjean looks almost as ill as Feuilly does this morning, sipping quietly from his cup of coffee. Javert is almost aggressively normal, which is how Grantaire knows he’s worried too.

Cosette, Combeferre, Enjolras, Courfeyrac, Feuilly and Bahorel are the ones with the most to lose this morning. Cosette has applied for medical school, Combeferre for a mixture of sciences at Oxbridge and Imperial, Enjolras for PPE in similar places, Courfeyrac and Bahorel for law and Feuilly for architecture. They’re the ones with the provisional places that depend on the results lying in the middle of the breakfast table.

Grantaire drinks the remaining milk in his cereal bowl and wrinkles his nose. “Are you lot going to open your letters or did I get dragged out of bed for nothing?” he asks.

Enjolras turns his envelope over in his hands then rips it open in one big movement. He scrambles the letter open and lets out a sigh of relief, passing it on to Grantaire a second later, hugging him so tightly that Grantaire can barely read the column of A’s on the sheet of paper.

“He’s in,” Grantaire clarifies, voice muffled, waving the sheet of paper in the air.

“Cos is too,” cheers Eponine, peering over Cosette’s shoulder. “Cos, you’re going to be a doctor!” Cosette’s answering smile is breathtaking.

In the background, Courfeyrac and Bahorel are high-fiving and hugging—they’ve both gotten places in the same law school.

Grantaire seeks out Feuilly with his eyes. His envelope is still on the table, untouched, his hands are shaking.

“Open it,” says Jehan.

Feuilly shakes his head. “Rel, do it for me,” he says, voice small. “Please. I can’t.”

Bahorel nods seriously, placing his envelope down and picking up Feuilly’s. He opens it slowly, takes a huge breath, and…

“Feuilly, you’re in,” he says, dumbstruck. “You’re in. You got them. All A’s.”

Tears spring to Feuilly’s eyes. “No I’m not, don’t say that,” he says, grabbing for the paper. He stares at it, shaking his head, “That’s not possible,” he says, groping behind himself for a chair to drop into. Musichetta hurriedly nudges a chair in his direction. “I can’t have,” Feuilly repeats. “There’s no way I got an A in maths. There’s been a mistake. I bombed that paper, I…”

“You must have done better than you thought,” says Cosette, smiling even bigger, something which shouldn’t really be anatomically possible.

“Feu, you’ve done it,” says Bahorel, “You’re in!” He explodes with noise, a huge cheer, yanking a disoriented Feuilly to his feet and whirling him around. “I’m so fucking happy for you!” he shouts, “You’re so awesome Feu, you did it! All A’s! You got the same as Cos, Ferre and Enj! You don’t ever get to call yourself stupid again, you hear me?”

The whole kitchen is in an uproar, Joly is doing celebratory wheelies, Feuilly has been buried under hugs from Musichetta, Cosette and Eponine.

Enjolras is not smiling. Enjolras is looking at Grantaire.

Grantaire’s heart sinks.

“Open your envelope,” Enjolras says casually.

“Nah,” says Grantaire. “I’ll do it later.”

The noise in the kitchen falls off sharply. Grantaire can feel Javert’s sharp eyes on him, can see the confusion in some faces, the apprehension in others.

“Do it now,” says Enjolras shortly.

“Mmm, no,” says Grantaire. “I’m sensitive. I want to open them quietly by myself, where I can cry undisturbed.”

Enjolras doesn’t laugh. Instead he advances on Grantaire, who slides away down the counter, envelope behind his back. “Give me it,” he says lowly.

“Nah.”

“Give me it now.”

“Nope.”

Grantaire feels the envelope being yanked out his hands behind him and when he whirls round Feuilly is already ripping it open.

Grantaire manages to catch a glimpse of it upside down.

Language and literature: A

Classical Greek: A

Philosophy: B

Design technology: Fail

Mathematics: Fail

Visual Arts: A

Personally, he’s more taken aback by the B in Philosophy. He really had ranted about something only very tangentially related to the question asked—and only then if you were being generous with the term tangential.

Feuilly is still staring at the sheet of paper like he can’t quite make it form meaningful words.

“How,” he begins slowly. “Did you manage to fail maths?”

“I guess it just… Wasn’t my day,” says Grantaire carefully, eyeing first Feuilly, then Enjolras, who looks… Beyond angry.

Across the kitchen, Eponine closes her eyes slowly.

“You took it for me?” demands Feuilly. “You… How did you?”

“The ID cards,” says Enjolras, without a trace of a doubt, “He switched yours around.”

Feuilly opens his mouth, then closes it again, leans against the table.

“Taire,” he says quietly. “Answer me. You took the test for me?”

Grantaire avoids the eyes on him and instead focuses on the shiny arc of Joly’s wheelchair rim. “Of course not,” he says, trying to keep the tone light. “That would be cheating.” 

Apparently that’s all it takes for Enjolras to lose the very last threads of his sanity.

He shoves Grantaire backwards, till he’s bumped against the kitchen counter, gets right up in his face.

“You did it, I know you did, don’t lie to me,” he says through gritted teeth.

“Christ, sunshine,” says Grantaire, honestly surprised. “Why do you care?”

“Why do I care?!” Enjolras shouts, so loudly that half the kitchen jumps. “This is your life, Grantaire, this is your future and you don’t give a fuck about it! You’d happily throw it all away for a laugh! Why do you always do this? Why do you cheat and lie your way through everything? Why don’t you just, fucking, try for once in your life? You could be so good, Grantaire, you’re really smart, you could do anything you want, and you just waste it, and it’s like you don’t care about yourself at all, don’t walk away from me!”

Grantaire turns and runs a hand distractedly through his hair, “Why not?” he asks tiredly. “Does it make any difference whether I’m here or not? Do I have to be witness to your ranting? I’m very imaginative, I’m sure I could fill in the gaps. Waste, blah blah, potential, blah blah, whatever.”

Enjolras darts around him and slams the kitchen door shut. “You’re not getting out of here until you explain to me why you think this is okay,” he brandishes the now-crumpled exam results in Grantaire’s face.

The whole kitchen is watching him.

“You want to know?” asks Grantaire, feeling strangely reckless, “You really want to know?”

“Yes,” says Enjolras.

“Fine. I’m not really smart Enjolras. I am the smartest person you have ever met. I’m not bragging, I’m not being… Whatever. My IQ is off the charts. I’m a fucking genius. Give me a test. Give me any test: I’ll ace it. I spent my whole life in that place jumping through hoops and meeting targets and solving problems and spotting patterns. I justified my existence to them ever day. And then I got out, and I. Am. Done. Justifying my existence to people. I. Am. Done. Following rules set by some arbitrary authority. I’m done, I’m done with it all. I will do whatever the fuck I want, and nobody will stop me, do you understand? Not even you. I will fail every single test I get set. I will be the stupidest motherfucker you have ever met. I will break rules and I will not strive to succeed in a system that is fucking valueless to me. Why is it so important for you to succeed, sunshine? Explain that to me? For money? We have money; Valjean won’t let us starve. For power? Success? No, wait, I got this. To make a difference? Well explain to me how passing a test achieves that. It’s not important, none of this is important. You’ve bought into a bullshit system designed to evaluate your worth and use you as a commodity. And that’s fine, as long as you’ve got some worth, yeah? Never mind that Feuilly almost drove himself fucking insane over that stupid, stupid test. Never mind that he’s got himself halfway convinced that he’s functionally useless as a human being because he can’t do binomial expansion. As long as your self worth is validated, who gives a fuck, right?” Grantaire doesn’t even know where all this is coming from, but he feels like he could go on forever, keep shouting all this stuff at Enjolras, who’s backed away from him like he’s a stranger. He jams the lid down hard on the hole where all this is flooding up from, and takes a deep breath.

“You deserve that grade,” he tells Feuilly, straining for calm. Feuilly focuses on him, dazed. “You worked for it, you put in the hours. You could put me back in the same situation, I’d do the same thing every time.”

&

Feuilly sticks his head out the window and finds Grantaire, staring up into the sky.

“Hey,” he says softly.

 Grantaire looks down with heavy eyelids. He’s smoking a roll-up and he vaguely hopes Feuilly isn’t about to give him a hard time for it.

“So, thanks?” says Feuilly, with a hesitant grin. “I guess?”

Grantaire laughs, “Pull up a pew, my friend.”

Feuilly clambers out onto the roof and lies back on its slope next to Grantaire.

“You are very welcome,” says Grantaire eventually, when he remembers what Feuilly had originally said.

“Did you mean all that stuff you said?” asks Feuilly neutrally.

“Hmmm, did I? I don’t know,” muses Grantaire. He can’t stop staring at the stars. He’s having lots of feelings about stars. “I supposed I did, if I said it. Don’t remember really thinking any of it before, mind.”

Feuilly laughs. “Good self awareness. Ten out of ten.”

“Oh god, don’t even joke about that. If all goes to plan I’ll remain as unaware of myself as is possible,” says Grantaire, blowing smoke up into the sky.

“That’s a shame,” says Feuilly. “I like you. You’re a good person to be aware of.”

Grantaire laughs, “You have really poor taste, Feu.”

“So are you going to manage running that bar without me?” asks Feuilly, ignoring him.

“Bar?” Grantaire asks. “Oh. Yeah.” The future looms around him and ahead of him, stretching out endlessly and making him want to cry. “I dunno man. I don’t think I can do this for much longer.”

“Do what?” Feuilly asks carefully.

“All of this. Everything. Man, aren’t the stars nice?”

“Yeah,” says Feuilly slowly. “But what do you mean, everything?”

“Everything,” Grantaire laughs again. “It’s very big, everything, don’t you think? Big and tiring. Y’know I’m just… I’m so fucking tired.” His voice cracks.

“What do you mean?”

“Tired, like, inside. Tired in my heart, in my soul, I guess. Hah, do you believe in souls?”

“I don’t know.”

“I think mine is probably a bit broken.”

“Your heart or your soul?”

Grantaire just laughs, and holds his roll-up into the sky, tracing the darker patches of night with the furling smoke.

“I really, really love him,” Grantaire confides.

“I know.”

“No,” Grantaire shakes his head. “Like, really.”

“I know,” confirms Feuilly again.

“I don’t think he knows. He doesn’t get it, I don’t think. He has faith in me. Otherwise he’d understand. It’s like faith-love. Does that make sense? He thinks I’m permanent. He loves me because I’m here, because he doesn’t think I’ll never not be here. He loves me like I’m a star.”

“Aren’t you permanent?” Feuilly asks.

Grantaire snorts, “No one is permanent. Nothing lasts and the stars are dead. I don’t have faith in anything, not like that. I just love him. Like a… Hmmm. Like a flower. Not something to have faith in. The whole world always feels so unsteady under my feet, like it’s going to break apart. I have nightmares that I’m falling.”

Feuilly rubs his face with his hands. “Taire, I love you man. But I have no idea what you’re telling me. Except that it sounds bad.”

Grantaire laughs, “It does sound bad, doesn’t it, I’m sorry. I just can’t stand how awful everything always is.”

“You need to fix it,” says Feuilly. “You need to fix this. Find a solution. You’re a genius. Solve for x.”

Grantaire hums, “You can’t run away from what’s inside yourself,” he says wisely. “That’s just basic biology. You need your insides.”

“Taire, I…” Feuilly breathes out heavily. “I don’t know what you’re talking about, but will you just, just answer me one question?”

Grantaire hums agreeably.

“Are you happy here?”

“No,” Grantaire laughs, and takes a drag. “No of course not.”

Feuilly’s voice is hoarse when he says, “Well maybe there’s somewhere else, where you could be happy.”

Grantaire doesn’t reply, just closes his eyes against the glittering stars.

&

After that, things are more peaceful in the house than they have been in years.

No one’s moving away, all the Universities were carefully chosen to be within commuting distance.

If Grantaire is quieter than usual, no one asks him about it. He reads The Odyssey over and over, in English and the original Greek, lying out on the huge green stretch of gardens behind the house.

He remembers lying out there when they first arrived at the house, twelve years old, held together by nothing but chance, heartbeat powered by some tiny flame that flickered in him when he looked at Enjolras.

He finds himself seeing things in his family that he’s missed, or grown so used to that he’s forgotten. Javert and Valjean touch now, casually, to fix a tie or reach for a mug. They’ve slept in the same room for years, their antagonism softening into something gentle, teasing. Gavroche is tall, a normal kid with huge, reckless energy and a smart sense of humour. Mr and Mrs Hauche are greying, old, and they smile at Bahorel when he makes a stupid joke, at Bossuet when he grabs a biscuit before dinner time. Cosette is more beautiful than Grantaire has words for, unfurling confidence, whirling joy in her every step as she buys her new medical textbooks, a pink stethoscope. It’s been years since he’s seen Bossuet unable to speak, or Musichetta scream like her world is ending. Combeferre smiles at Courfeyrac when Courfeyrac’s not looking, something unspeakably gentle in his eyes. Courfeyrac is exuberant and and enthusiastic, always thinking about other people, an unshakeable impulse towards kindness. Eponine has tapped into something inside herself, steely and sweet, a fierce determination to love Cosette no matter what; they’re closer than Grantaire has seen in years. Jehan is jehan: quiet and graceful and intrepid and in love with the whole world. Feuilly is happy, high school is over, his excitement at starting a new part of life, at working for something he cares about, is palpable.

Enjolras is taller than Grantaire, now. He’s tall and beautiful and serious and fierce. Grantaire watches him the most. Watches him talk with Courfeyrac and Combeferre about politics, the way his face softens when he looks at Cosette, his debates with a grinning Javert, the way people stare when he walks down the street. Slowly a thought settles over Grantaire, sweet and awful all at once, a thought that quietly, quietly, alters almost two decades of decisions and choices and ultimatums. He stares at Enjolras while he’s sleeping at night and thinks: he doesn’t need me, really. Not any more.

The little crying boy that asked Grantaire, promise, is gone. He slipped away bit by bit, like a dream in the morning. Now in his place was Enjolras, brave and stubborn and oddly sweet, a law unto himself. A nineteen year old with big ideas, who didn’t really need Grantaire at all.

Grantaire cannot articulate, even to himself, how much of a relief the thought is.

&8


“What’s this?” demands Enjolras, brandishing a sheaf of paper in his hands.

Grantaire is sitting on the floor playing what might be the least fair game of Monopoly he’s ever witnessed in his life with Cosette, Bossuet, Bahorel and Combeferre. Everyone else is gathered round watching, groaning whenever Bossuet takes a particularly severe loss.

“I have no idea,” says Grantaire, squinting at him. “Paper?”

Enjolras thrusts the paper into Grantaire’s face. When Grantaire reads it he goes very still.

Like they’ve felt some torrential wind ripple through the room, Combeferre looks up sharply and Cosette freezes.

“It’s a ticket,” Grantaire says softly. He rolls his little metal thimble around on his hand.

“I can see that,” says Enjolras acidly. “Why do you have a train ticket to Paris?”

“I’m going to Paris.”

“Grantaire,” sighs Enjolras, exasperated. “We start Uni next week, we haven’t got time to go to Paris. You couldn’t have mentioned this earlier on in the summer?”

“It’s just me,” says Grantaire. “I’m the only one going, listen, Enjolras can we-”

“For how long?” Enjolras says. “I’d like to see Paris too, you know. Honestly Grantaire, were you actually going to tell anyone before you got on the flight?”

“I, yes, I was going to speak to you,” starts Grantaire. “Can we please-”

“How long for, Taire?” Enjolras asks, “I mean, most of us can probably do a weekend, if you give us notice!”

Grantaire stays silent and Enjolras makes an impatient gesture.

Grantaire opens and closes his mouth a few times before he manages to get out, “Indefinitely.”

“What?” Enjolras asks flatly.

“I’m going indefinitely. I’m going, to… To stay.”

Enjolras throws his hands up in the air like he’s asking for divine intervention. “Again, Grantaire, you couldn’t have told me that’s what you wanted to do? Do you know how difficult it is to transfer Universities this close to the beginning of term? Across countries?”

Grantaire closes his eyes and begs for more patience. The moment stretches out. Grantaire can’t work out how Enjolras can be so oblivious to the atmosphere around them. He doesn’t think anyone else is actually breathing. “You’re not coming,” Grantaire says, “I’m going alone.”

Enjolras stares at him for a long moment, then says, “What?”

“I’m going to Paris. I’m leaving the city, leaving the house. I’m leaving…” his throat closes on the last sentence and he leaves it hanging like string.

Enjolras shakes his head. He looks hurt and confused. “What’s this about, Taire?” he asks. “Is this about the exam results because-”

“It’s not,” says Grantaire. “It’s not about that, it’s not about anything. I’m just leaving, okay?”

“Em, no?” Enjolras says, “Not okay? Jesus, Grantaire what is wrong with you? I have to physically fucking drag you out of The Institute. Back then we didn’t have a choice, but now we do. Now we can choose how our lives go. We’re safe, we’re together, our whole lives are ahead of us—and now you want to leave? I don’t understand you. Do you honestly hate yourself that much?”

Grantaire goes white hot then ice cold with anger. He laughs hollowly. “God, you are so incredibly stupid, you know that sunshine?”

Enjolras recoils.

Grantaire stands up, stalks away, then paces back. He had wanted to do this gracefully. This will not be graceful. He feels like something very important has eroded, deep down inside him, a dam burst or a pipe punctured. He can’t stop himself now. “Listen closely,” he says. He can barely hear himself over the rushing in his ears. His lips and finger tips feel numb. “I. Am. Invisible. Do you honestly believe that I couldn’t have left the Institute any time I wanted? Or are you just so incredibly dense that the idea never occurred to you? Because I could, you know. They used to make a game of it, how fast I could get to the main gates. I think they got it down to 21 minutes at one point.”

Enjolras shakes his head, “That’s not true- Then why wouldn’t you-”

“BECAUSE OF YOU!” Grantaire roars.

Cosette begins to cry, quietly. Enjolras has gone paler than the wall, his golden tan drained away.

“Because of you,” Grantaire repeats, voice hoarse, tears starting in his eyes, “Because I wouldn’t leave you. Even though it meant staying there. Even though it meant…” his voice breaks and goes high, keening. “I could have gotten them out. I could have gotten them all out. Everyone except you, because you, you could never go unseen. So I didn’t. Because I promised.” He brings his hand up to his face and finds it slippery with tears. “I told you,” he says, sobbing now. “I told you, I’d fuck over anyone for you. Even them. Even Gav. He was six years old Enjolras. I could barely look at him. They made me watch what they did to Joly and I couldn’t stop them. This is what you make me into, Enjolras. This is the person I am when I’m with you.”

“No wonder you hate me,” Enjolras whispers.

Grantaire tries to laugh but sobs come out instead, “Don’t you get it? I can’t hate you. It literally isn’t possible for me to hate you. I love you, Enjolras. It’s me I hate. But I can’t go on like this. I can’t live like this any more. It will kill me. It will literally kill me. I will kill myself.”

Enjolras shakes his head. “No.”

“I’m sorry,” says Grantaire, “I’m so, incredibly sorry.”

He noise that comes out of Enjolras is almost a whimper. “You promised,” he says, tears running over his lips. “You promised you wouldn’t.”

Grantaire nods slowly. “I know. But please, please. Don’t ask me to stay. Because I will. And I don’t know how much longer I can hold out.”

Enjolras shakes his head again, more violently this time.

“I’m not trying to be cruel,” Grantaire approaches Enjolras, hands out like he’s trying to calm a skittish animal. “And, you know, I wouldn’t even be doing this if it was just for me. I honestly don’t have that in me. ”

“What does that even mean,” Enjolras chokes out, reaching blindly for Grantaire’s hands, pulling him in.

“We are toxic to each other,” says Grantaire, running his hands up Enjolras’s neck, cupping his face, “You don’t believe me just now but we are. And if I stay, and drink myself into oblivion, do drugs until I can’t feel any more, and you find me in a bathtub somewhere. It will destroy you. Which is so stupid, because you’re stronger than that Enjolras, you don’t need me, not really. So I’m going to leave, and I’m going to learn how to be happy, and you’re going to learn how to be alone. Because we are capable of that. I have to believe we’re capable of that.”

“What you’re saying,” Enjolras’s sobs interrupt him but he presses on. “What you’re saying is that you’d rather die than stay with me.”

Grantaire shakes his head, pressing his lips to Enjolras’s forehead, his wet cheeks, his eyelids. “I’d rather die than be myself any more. I need to get better, to change some parts of me that go all the way down, and I never will if I don’t leave you. You’re most of what makes me, me.”

Enjolras swallows wetly, “I like you,” he says pitifully.

Grantaire presses his lips to Enjolras’s for one long, lingering moment. “I love you,” he says seriously. “I love you so much I’d set fire to myself, just to keep you warm. And that’s why I have to go. I can’t stand to be on fire any more.”

I live at starkey.tumblr.com, feel free to leave a comment and/or come yell at me





~

Triggers:

Same system as last time, there’s a list of general triggers and specific. This chapter (and every chapter after this) focuses much less on actual acts of violence and more on recovery and the long term after-effects of trauma. This makes things slightly more nebulous to tag for, so if anyone does have any issues with untagged stuff please lmk.

General trigger warnings:
- References to the events of the first chapter and all that that entails
- Disability generally, and specifically: paraplegia, blindness, epilepsy and seizures, dyslexia
- Disability as a result of punishment and experimentation
- Suicidal ideation and thoughts
- Depression
- Self destructive thoughts
- Panic attacks
- Death/murder (not main characters) (flagged when explicit)
- Codependecy/unhealthy relationships
- Underage alcohol and drug use, mostly off-camera.

Section specific trigger warnings (detailed):
1. Recovery from disability (delayed speech development)
2. Blood - specifically the girls get their periods and everyone thinks they’re dying
3. Brief discussion of nightmares related to trauma
4. Explicit minor character death (a razer who is a teenager) at the hands of one of the main characters
5. Experience with ableism (Joly) subverted by disaster children
6. Joly goes missing after having a (mostly offscreen) panic attack. The flock find him
7. Brief discussion about race in the context of the flock lead by a Black character (Musichetta)
8. Explicit conversation about codependency, unhealthy relationships and suicidal ideation.

(stumbles into barricade day four years late without any coffee because the plague killed starbucks)

- thank you everybody for being so wonderful, I literally would not have writen this if you all hadn't still been hitting up my inbox in the year of our lord 2020.- I've edited the first and second chapters. None of the plot points have changed but I've fixed some multimedia issues and reworked some scenes that had been bugging me- 100% of the credit for the fact that this chapter exists goes to Fiver. Not only did she literally drag me back into the Les Mis fandom by my hair three years after I'd left it, she also held my hand, cheerleaded, and battled my gruesome punctuation every step of the way. If you're doing the maths you might realise that yes, this does mean that our lord and saviour Fiver is responsible for a statistically weird amount of les mis modern au wing fics. No, I cannot account for this behaviour.- I swear to god, I SWEAR TO GOD, I will not take any more years to update. the next chapter (and the epilogue) are already written, they just need a lot of tidying. They were originally supposed to be part of this chapter, but I've been reliably informed that 80k chapters are a war crime.- Here is a spotify playlist, as an 'I'm very sorry' present. It's in chronological order but there's some minor spoilers if you're paying close attention to the lyrics, soooo maybe read the fic once before listening to it ;)- Trigger warnings are in the footnotes- ily all very much <3


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Grantaire has been ignoring his raucous, blaring alarm for so long his head has started to pulse with the WAH WAH WAH WAH WAH of the specially-bought, projectile-proof alarm clock, placed maliciously far away from Grantaire’s bed and limb-circumference by somebody definitely not him.

The clock blares on for a while—Grantaire loses track—until eventually Musichetta stumbles into Grantaire's bedroom, nimbly dodging the mess of detritus that makes up ninety percent of his living space. She smacks her hand off the AWAKE button so hard that Grantaire flinches for her.

Musichetta has been picking up shifts at a tourist-filled Irish bar down the street, and got home well after five AM last night (Grantaire, crippled by insomnia, had listened to the front door close with a gentle click, the wind-chime rattle of Musichetta’s keys in the bowl, her stealth bare-foot creep to the kitchen for a slice of toast before bed). Her hair is violently curly, her eye makeup is smudged down one cheek, and, horrifyingly, she doesn’t even look angry at being awake after less than three hours of sleep.

Grantaire wishes she would shout. She stands over him, and the silence pushes down on him, and he pulls his bedsheets tighter around himself.

“It’s 8am, Grantaire,” she says, even though they both know he knows. Grantaire doesn’t say anything.

Musichetta purses her lips, nods, and sweeps Grantaire’s duvet away and onto the floor, causing a waterfall of cold air to crash over him. He curls tighter, like a slug under attack, and Musichetta grabs his arm and attempts to haul him upright. Unfortunately, although Musichetta is many things—beautiful, intelligent, occasionally frightening beyond all reason—she isn’t actually physically stronger than a determined Grantaire.

“You have to get up,” she says matter-of-factly. “You have to go to work.”

When Grantaire still can’t find words within himself to reply, Musichetta climbs in between him and the wall, puts her back to the white plaster and her bare feet into Grantaire’s ribs, and levers him off the bed. Grantaire clings grimly to the mattress, but gravity is a strong contender, and eventually he thumps to the ground, where he remains motionless. He feels like a piece of seaweed, slapped uselessly up onto a stretch of shoreline.

Musichetta laughs helplessly and clunks her head against the wall. A few moments pass, then Grantaire hears the sound of her calling someone.

“Hello dear,” Musichetta says when the ringing stops. “Any words of wisdom this morning? Some of the congregation are struggling to ascend to their aspirations of consciousness.”

Grantaire doesn’t hear Joly’s answer but there’s suddenly something hard and rectangular pressed to his ear, and Joly’s voice says, “Taire, can you do something for me? Can you just get out of bed? You don’t have to go to work, or even get dressed. No one’s going to make you if you don’t want to. But can you just get up for me? Don’t think about anything else, just do that.”

Grantaire says nothing but climbs slowly, achingly, to his feet. He fights with every scrap of his remaining willpower to stay upright and not fold uselessly to the bed.

Musichetta crows, “He’s up!” and throws her arms and legs into the air like a triumphant starfish.

“Awesome, ‘Taire, well done! I know that was tough, okay?” Joly says into his ear. Grantaire holds the phone loosely between his thumb and index finger, staring vacantly at the floor. “Now, go through to the living room, okay? Chetta will get you something to eat.”

Musichetta presses a mug of coffee into Grantaire’s lifeless hands, and sets a plate of buttered toast in front of him on the coffee table with a dull clink of ceramic on glass. He reaches out, takes a bite, then drops the rest of the toast limply to the plate. The bite of toast goes disgusting and congealed in his mouth before he can work up the effort to swallow.

“Please eat it for me,” says Joly soothingly against a background rumble of traffic. “I know you don’t want to, but it’ll make you feel better, I promise. Do it for me, okay?”

Eating one bite had felt herculean, obscenely difficult. He eyes the rest of the toast miserably, before setting to work on the arduous process of eating it, conscious of every slow, deliberate movement of his jaw, every dry swallow. Musichetta is kneeling next to him, and he wonders when his peripheral awareness got so bad. She wipes at his face with a warm, damp cloth, scrubbing the sleep sand from his eyes, then passes him a toothbrush with a swirl of blue Colgate on top. He runs it idly over his teeth and swallows the subsequent foam to Musichetta’s wrinkle-nosed disgust.

She holds out a pair of jeans for him, which he pulls on over his boxers, and a fresh t-shirt to replace his old, stained one. Grantaire hasn’t taken his wing binder off in three days and his back aches from it, but he can’t bring himself to care. He sprays on the deodorant Musichetta offers him, copiously.

He turns his head slowly to look at the clock: 08:23. He’ll be on time for work.

He toes into slip-on trainers (bought for him by Bossuet after he’d witnessed Grantaire pick idly at his untied laces for an entire half hour) and moves slowly towards the door.

Musichetta blurts, “Wait.”

Grantaire turns back to her, trying to mould his face into one of polite concern, and failing. 

Joly has been doing a lot of reading; two nights ago Grantaire had heard him explain to the others that the horrible, mask-like expression that so often haunted Grantaire’s face nowadays was a thing called ‘flat affect’.

Musichetta truly looks like she’s about to cry just from looking into Grantaire’s eyes, but she rallies like a trooper, swallows, smiles tentatively, “You don’t have to go to work. I’ll call in sick for you. We'll have a Disney and pillow-fort day."

“I do have to,” says Grantaire. Even to himself his voice sounds shockingly monotonous. “I can’t call in sick again, Chetta. They'll fire me.” Forcing a full sentence out is literally, physically exhausting, but Musichetta looks unsettled by his brevity.

“You don’t have to,” she presses. “Don’t go. I’ll do your shift for you. Or you can quit. You don’t need the money, we can support you. Valjean can support you.”

Grantaire shakes his head and says quietly, “No. It’s fine.”

Walking out the door feels like wading back to shore in a rip tide.

Much to Grantaire’s disappointment, Valjean hasn’t cut him off. They’d spoken the night before he’d left and Valjean had pleaded with him to do anything other than what he planned (specifically, disappearing off into another country without a job, accommodation or the baseline foundations of a life waiting for him.) He had offered to set Grantaire up with his own flat in London—in Paris, even, if that’s what he wanted. He’d suggested that Grantaire take Jehan with him, that he take Eponine, that he take Javert. He stressed the importance of a ‘support network’, which clued Grantaire in immediately to the fact that Valjean had spoken extensively with Myriel about the dangers inherent in Grantaire’s plan for social suicide. It’s not like Grantaire hadn’t seen why they were worried, but for every offer and counter-offer Valjean made, Grantaire’s disgust and self-loathing deepened by fathoms. What had he done to deserve this…endless fucking goodwill? Why did Valjean care, and how could he make it so that he didn’t? In the end, Grantaire left his bank card behind, along with his phone, almost all of his worldly possessions, and his entire family.

Partly, it’s about removing temptation. He knows that if he’d had the financial means to live without working, there’s nothing in the world that would have induced him to get out of bed and trudge down the street to the tacky cafe where he serves tourists coffee all day. The rest of his reasoning, as always, is tied up in Enjolras. The night of his announcement, he’d noticed Eponine, Feuilly and Bahorel exchanging furtive and significant glances. He suspected that, if given half a chance, Category Five would have merrily (and forcibly) accompanied him to Paris—as if he were going backpacking, and not finding the geographical equivalent of a quiet hole to die in. He hadn’t wanted to give them the chance. He wouldn’t—couldn’t—take any more family from Enjolras. That was unacceptable. He would go, and eventually everyone would—If not forget about him, then at least not think of him so often, and no one would have to contend with his morbid personality anymore.

To start with, everything had gone according to plan. He got up every morning, he went to work, he poured coffees, and then he went back to his bed and stared vacantly at the ceiling. He had watched the light in the room shift by immutable degrees towards night, and then, when night had arrived, he had watched the mosquitoes buzz around the bare light bulb hanging from the ceiling. He had been determined, he hadn’t contacted anyone. He had studied the curved, crumbling plaster cornice of the ceiling till he knew it like the curve of Enjolras’s jaw, the lines of his hands. And he’d lived three weeks of his life thus, in a kind of fugue state, collecting bed-bug bites in lines up his legs and rarely mustering the energy to even scratch them.

Then the Unholy Trinity turned up with several thousand pounds of savings and their worldly possessions in tow.

By that point he hadn’t even had it in him to wonder how. He had accepted that, if not Valjean, Javert definitely had the means and the will to track him. It hadn’t upset him much—not in the way he thinks Valjean would probably assume that it would. In his very earliest memories strangers with malicious intent analysed his every waking moment; the idea that his loved ones can find him in a pinch doesn’t disturb him in the slightest—although he’d rather they didn’t.

It had occurred to him to wonder, idly, why they were the ones who came. He loves them, infinitely, but they’re not his people the way that Category Five are—their brains just don’t run along the same shaky rails. They don’t have the same tendency towards sullen melancholy, the same bone-deep sense of irony, the same wild risk-taking streak that’s kindled a hundred small indoor fires. Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet: relentlessly good humoured, joyful to the point of inanity, endlessly entertained by puns and memes and inside jokes; just plain, dizzyingly daft. The Unholy Trinity, who take nothing seriously, least of all themselves. What the fuck did they think they were doing, rooting Grantaire out of his horrible little hostel and dragging him to a nice comfortable flat on Rue Hyacinth? If Grantaire's misery made Courfeyrac despondent, how were these three going to survive?

Grantaire hadn’t thought—after fifteen years of co-dependency and living almost literally on top of one another—that he had much left to learn about his family. But, like an optical illusion, Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet shift both suddenly and imperceptibly in his eyes, a blink of perception that renders them entirely different. Joly rambles endlessly about Marvel comic book theories while Grantaire stares catatonically at the walls. Bossuet's laughs loudly at every dumb joke in every dumb Disney movie that Grantaire barely grasps the plot of anymore. Musichetta paints his toenails and reads aloud from Terry Pratchett books. She does the voices.

It takes a while, but after a few months in the Rue Hyacinth apartment Grantaire begins to notice something: It’s deliberate. Grantaire fills their ears with dry, sand-rough hopelessness and they brush it off, laughing. They don’t take him seriously; they don’t take anything seriously. They’re utterly absurd. In fact, Grantaire decides, they're absurdists. In the face of Category Five’s nihilism and the Tetrarchy’s existentialism, they made a determined choice to laugh at the things that scared them most. And, weirdest of all, it seemed to work. It made them impervious.

The shock of peering through the fog of his brain and seeing his family in an entirely new light is completely disorientating to Grantaire. But fast on the heels of this realisation comes another: Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet are exactly who he needs. They alone have what it takes to wrestle with Grantaire—demons and all—until he’s back in the shape of a human being. It takes him a while to admit to himself that Combeferre and Courfeyrac obviously came to the same conclusion, several months earlier, when they sent the Unholy Trinity after him.

Musichetta gets him up every morning with a patience that goes miles beyond any tolerance Grantaire has for himself right now. She threatens, coaxes, blackmails, pours cold water, beats him with pillows, and bodily intervenes to get Grantaire out of his bed. It works about seven times out of ten. The other three times, Musichetta will curl up next to him, put her cold feet on his bed-warmed ones, and queue up Netflix docudramas on her laptop. Bossuet is utterly unfazed by Grantaire’s demeanour and rambles on endlessly about the 'outstanding' character development in Avatar: The Last Airbender, and trends in cult 80s teen movies into gloomy, tense silent. Grantaire can only imagine how horrific it is to live with someone like him, but Bossuet doesn’t even blink at the oddities that come with a paralysed serotonin system. Grantaire sits in the cold, porcelain bath, under a cascade of thundering water, too exhausted to remove his boxers or binder; Bossuet nudges the plug into the drain and proceeds to add what seems to be the entire product line of Lush to the warm water. Grantaire finds glitter on his skin for weeks; Bossuet’s laugh rings around the white tile. Joly is so gentle with him it breaks Grantaire’s heart, what’s left of it, down in the bottom of his rib cage. Grantaire has never been as tactile as Enjolras, who needs to be hugged roughly every hour or he starts sulking, but Joly cuddles up to him whenever he’s within arms reach, pulling Grantaire awkwardly down onto his knees for the sake of a hug.

And for all that, Grantaire survives. He wishes he could repay them with something more than that.

&

Myriel flies out some time in November and he and Grantaire sit outside a little boulangerie near Pere Lachaise Cemetery, bundled up in scarves and hats, the metal of the outdoor seats cold under their legs. Grantaire isn’t much for talking of late, but Myriel seems content enough to sit and people watch, sipping his coffee and spilling pastry crumbs down the front of his coat.

“Valjean and Javert are giving you space,” he says. “But whenever you need them, whenever you’re ready, they'll be there. All you have to do is call.”

“I can’t imagine they’re very happy with me,” rasps Grantaire after a long pause.

“They love you,” Myriel says lightly. “All your family love you. Nothing you can do will ever change that. And I include myself in that assessment.”

“So why are you here?” asks Grantaire. “Why aren’t you—” he wafts his hands vaguely, a shadow of his old, eccentric hand gestures, “—giving me space?”

“I think you need medication,” Myriel says simply.

Grantaire starts to shake his head and Myriel raises his hands in supplication, “Hear me out, please. Medication for depression can work, Grantaire. It can make a huge difference to people’s lives. Would you tell Bossuet not to take his epilepsy medication, or Joly not to take the medication I give him for anxiety?”

“No,” says Grantaire, and the ghostly, implied but is easily audible in the silence that follows.

“No,” says Myriel peaceably, ignoring his tone. “And the rules don’t work differently just for you. Sometimes people’s bodies fight them. Your brain is just another part of your body. I believe—sincerely, Grantaire—that you are not well. This is not who you are - I know who you are, I’ve known you since you were a child. You are a smart, funny, charismatic person who loves his family and enjoys the world. Do you remember when you were thirteen and you became obsessed with those numbers stations, those Russian intelligence broadcasts? You wouldn’t stop talking about them for weeks. You made Jehan listen to—Oh it must have been hours of the stuff. You wanted to find out what the spies were talking about!”

Grantaire remembers it well. They—they being Grantaire, Jehan, Eponine, Bahorel and Feuilly—had set up their own numbers station, but rather than conveying internationally-wanted covert information, their looping pattern of numbers had been generated from Rick Astley’s “Never Gonna Give You Up” music video. Enjolras had asked Grantaire very seriously if he felt that they as a family were lacking in interactions with faceless malevolent government institutions, and Grantaire had laughed uproariously. He remembers the details of the moment vividly, but he doesn’t identify with the emotions he knows he must have felt: the poorly-concealed glee at annoying his family members with endless lists of robot-voiced numbers; the conspiratorial exhilaration of being shut up in Bahorel and Feuilly’s room, assembling their own miniature radio antennae; the raucous delight at Enjolras’s endless exasperation. All those emotions feel distant and remote to him now, as if buried under several feet of snow. Had he ever really felt them?

Myriel is watching him with love in his eyes that Grantaire can’t bear to look at, so instead he presses his finger into the crumbs on the table, picking them up one at a time and dropping them onto the plate. Myriel’s voice is soft and gentle when he continues, “Grantaire, the way you’re feeling just now? It’s a product of brain chemistry that isn’t working as it should. We live in the twenty-first century. I will not label you a melancholic and accept your pain as just a necessary part of your existence. You don’t have to be unhappy, Grantaire, and you certainly don’t deserve it.”

“What if I’m just broken, though?” Grantaire asks, embarrassed and annoyed at being made to talk about things he’d rather ignore. “What if I never get better?”

His brain is working a little better than it usually does, today. He's had difficulty, recently, turning his nebulous feelings into concrete thoughts, and from there into words. Even the sentiment of not wanting to leave his bed seems hopelessly complex and unvoiceable from the inside of his skull, like some integral part of his interface is broken. Even now, with words leaving his mouth in a more-or-less coherent order, they’re creepily devoid of inflection. Grantaire grimaces at himself but Myriel doesn’t seem fazed.

“Joly will never walk again,” Myriel says with a sigh. “Jehan will never see. You kids have wings but some miracles are beyond you.”

Even though Grantaire knows this, accepts it as fact, it sounds vicious out loud and a shiver wanders down his spine like a stray ant.

Myriel goes on, “But depression isn't paralysis or blindness, even if it might feel that way. With medication, therapy… You can recover from this. In fact, you know, statistically it’s the single most likely outcome. Your mental health will probably continue to give you trouble throughout your life, but you’ll be able to manage it better with experience, and if you accept help. The least likely outcome, statically speaking, is it being untreatable or getting worse with treatment.”

“Things can always get worse,” Grantaire mumbles.

Myriel bows his head in agreement, “I didn’t say impossible, I said least likely.”

Then he breaks off in a completely different direction, “Before Cosette went to medical school, I spoke to her about the things I thought were most important for her to appreciate, going into the profession."

Grantaire blinks slowly, trying to keep up with that hair-point turn. He loves Cosette with all his heart, but she's a very competent person and that can be a bit upsetting to look at when you can't get out of bed without the mental equivalent of the Somme taking place.

As Myriel takes an idle sip from his coffee cup, Grantaire is struck suddenly by how old he looks, and how tender.

“Over the past seven years I have known you all, and loved you all, and every day I have come face to face with some of the greatest crimes that can be contemplated by a person in my profession. That the people who did this to you were doctors… I imagine it must be similar to how a devout person feels, when they see the horrors committed by members of their own faith. To me, medicine is more than a profession, it is a system of belief. We—all of us, I believe—have a duty to combat misery and sickness and needless death, wherever we find it. It is a moral obligation, a social contract. When people who have taken oaths to do no harm... When they not only disregard their professional and moral obligations but act in direct antagonism to them? I am not an angry man, Grantaire, but in this I have felt anger that goes deeper and hotter than any I have ever known. And remorse, of course. Remorse deeper than the soul.

“I told Cosette all this, and more. I told her that over the course of the next six years, she will learn everything there is to know about the human body. She will be an authority on it, by the time she leaves. She must remember that although she is an authority on the scientific mechanics of human pathology, she is not, nor will she ever be, the authority on any body except her own. Your body is yours, Grantaire, your biology is yours. No one else gets a say. These are your cells, your blood, your skin, your wings. In my opinion, your body would benefit from medication, but only your opinion matters. You can choose what to do, you are the one in control here. Only you can take the first step. But we’ll be here with you every step of the way.”

Something loosens in Grantaire that he has not been aware of until this precise moment.

Walking home from the coffee shop, he barely sees the ground under his feet, or the people passing by. Why was he so unwilling to interfere with his own misery, so hesitant to try to change anything for the better? Wasn't he his own person? Wasn't that why he smoked and drank and ran away from responsibility? Wasn’t it all his way of saying this land is my land now watch me burn it, assholes? Why was he prepared to raze himself to the ground, but not build himself up, make himself happier? People had been fucking with him his whole life, why was he so desperate to help them out?

It’s easier than the alternative, is the answer waiting for him at the end of that question. It’s so much easier. Anything else all but invites failure.

When Myriel departs for London, he leaves behind two months’ worth of medication, instructions on how to use it, and a phone number for a therapist he knows. He reminds Grantaire that he can do whatever he wants (anything in the whole wide world) but if he does use the medication would he please check in with Myriel, so he can make sure that there aren’t any side effects.

Grantaire starts taking the medication, video calls Myriel weekly, and doesn’t think much more on it. He figures he can stand a little failure.

&

It takes him a while to call the therapist. He knows that Joly has been to see one—still video calls her regularly, even—but Grantaire’s never asked much about it. It’s never been something he thought about for himself. For one thing, the idea of opening up about the mess inside his head fills him with a feverish embarrassment, a near-shame that makes him squirm, and for another he knows that he’d never be able to tell the real truth, and surely that was the point of these things. But Myriel brings it up once or twice—which for Myriel is being practically pushy—and Grantaire knows when to take a hint.

He ignores the shame. He appreciates that the amount of recoiling horror he feels at the idea of having to explain himself to another person is probably out of proportion to how crazy he really is. He understands that having to explicitly acknowledge and explain his thought processes is probably healthier than having them tacitly acknowledged and understood by people who know him better than he knows himself. But he still doesn’t know what to do about the problem of the truth. It’s not that he cares overly much about lying, but he doesn’t know how to go about describing the problem of himself or Enjolras or his family, without mentioning the fact that they were brought up together in an institution where they developed a kind of inter-relational stockholm syndrome with each other.

He asks Joly how he deals with it, and Joly looks startled. “You haven’t heard of the cult angle?”

Grantaire would be the first to admit his brain hasn’t been working at 100% capacity recently. “Excuse me?”

“The cult angle!” says Joly. “Oh my god, ‘Taire, how did you miss this?”

“Is this one of those mangas?” Grantaire asks dubiously. He’s drinking a rainbow bubble tea that Joly picked up for him on his way home. One of Joly’s preferred ways of coping with Grantaire being chronically miserable is to bring him home things he thinks are cool or entertaining. Thus far this week, like an errant magpie, he has delivered to Grantaire: a fridge magnet in the shape of a sheep, a giant pen with literally no discernible use as far as Grantaire can see, and a lottery ticket he found on the street (from two weeks ago; shockingly, it wasn’t a winning ticket). 

“Nooooo,” Joly says, then frowns. “Although it would make a cool band name… But no! It’s the therapist line!”

“The therapist line?”

“The line we all give to our therapists?”

“The line—Wait,” Grantaire backtracks. “We all?”

Joly frowns, “Well, me and Chetta and Sweets do, and Courf and Ferre and Cos too, I think.”

Grantaire is literally speechless for a moment.

“You all go to therapy?” he says, in a tone that actually expresses surprise—quite the achievement for Grantaire nowadays. “How did I miss that?”

“No offence, Grantaire, but you haven’t exactly been tuned into other people's lives for the past few years." Joly grins and takes a slurp of his own bubble tea, which is a much more appetising tequila sunrise colour; Grantaire's has melted into a kind of brown sludge.

He feels a stab of guilt at how out of sync he’s been with his family, and it obviously shows on his face because Joly rolls his eyes.

"It's fine," he says. “I mean, to be honest, everyone knows how much you and... You know, Category Five. We know how much you guys would hate the idea of talking to someone. Sharing feelings and all that. Didn't Bahorel and Feuilly once invent that game where every time you verbally express an emotion you have to swallow a handful of chilli flakes? It's possible that no one wanted to make you guys feel uncomfortable with the concept of free-flowing emotions."

Grantaire remembers the game well. Every single time he'd lost it had been down to complaining about Enjolras. He thinks his inability to shut up about how much Enjolras annoyed him was probably half the reason the game was invented to begin with.

"We didn't make you guys feel uncomfortable, did we?” Grantaire asks hesitantly. “Like, obviously it's fine if you go to therapy. I mean it's great, it helps you, right?"

Grantaire watches as Joly considers lying to him, and opts not to.

"I... Well, it can be difficult to believe people when they say, you know—" Joly adopts a kind of drawling mimicry of his siblings—"'Sure, it's great if you go to therapy! But I'd never go because I'm not a fucking loser.' Like, I know that you'd never say that!" he hurries on, as Grantaire opens his mouth to strongly protest the accusation that he'd imply that Joly was a loser for anything less than his weeaboo tendencies. "I know you don't even think that! It's just a reflection of how you feel about therapy, personally. But it can be difficult to be open about it when you’ve made it clear that… Well, you'd probably literally prefer to be tortured than go to therapy."

Grantaire shifts uncomfortably, and takes a sulky sip from his bubble tea. Joly eyes him guiltily.

"What's the cult angle then?" Grantaire asks, keen to get off the topic of how he's an unsupportive asshole of a brother.

"Oh right!" Joly brightens. "So, we were all brought up in a cult in Midwest America! Together, you know. And the cult leaders were obviously abusive and shitty, but we grew up really close, cause all we had was each other! And then we were rescued and put in witness protection and adopted by this random billionaire! So we can't talk about what happened to us outside of confidential environments, and that's why there's nothing about us in the news!"

Grantaire chokes, and stares.

"Joly, what the fuck, that’s not an angle, that’s a full-blown alternate reality! How does that even work?”

“Well, the difficult bit is the first session, where you kind of lay out the groundwork. That’s when most of the lying happens. But really, you don’t have to change very much. I just imply that it was a little less… government funded than it probably was. A little less official. I say ‘we escaped the compound’ rather than, you know, ‘we escaped the Institute’. But everything else stays the same. I can still talk about what the invigilators did to us—in the broadest of terms, obviously. I can still talk about how it made us all a bit, well. Co-dependent. Wary of outsiders. It works surprisingly well! Cause people really do escape from cults, don't they? Every day, there's TV shows about it! They don't need to know we have wings!”

Grantaire is reluctantly impressed. “That’s… Pretty impressive. It never occurred to me that you could actually tell someone some version of the truth.”

The idea is shockingly compelling in that moment. The truth, but slanted: not enough to be dangerous, or make him vulnerable, but enough that he can tell it. The knowledge that the truth of their lives—their suffering and struggle and triumph—would never be known by more than a handful of people has always been claustrophobic, a wall between them and ‘normal’ people. The idea of being seen, of being able to tell his story in a way that won’t inherently endanger him or prompt disbelief—it’s intoxicating. He wonders if this is what Enjolras had been chasing, when he’d advocated going public with the whole thing, or if his interests had always been strictly in line with the greater good.

Joly squints at him. “Wait, are you thinking of going to therapy?”

He sounds surprised and it makes Grantaire feel needlessly, stupidly embarrassed. “No,” he says, and avoids whatever face Joly makes in response to that by attempting to slam-dunk his bubble tea cup into the bin in the kitchen. He misses by a mile and ends up getting sludgy tapioca balls in Musichetta’s slippers.

&

The first therapist he goes to is a man with a cool, calm smile. Grantaire sits on a too-stiff neutral-toned couch, in a bland, white-walled office, and the man hands him a questionnaire with checkboxes and questions about ‘having little interest or pleasure in doing things’ and ‘feeling bad about yourself or feeling like a failure, or that you have let down yourself or your family’ and Grantaire is thrown, violently, vertiginously, back to being five years old, and swinging his legs on a chair too big for him, and his front baby tooth is loose. The urge to vomit is so strong and unexpected that he sprints from the room. He makes his apologies to the surprisingly understanding therapist in the waiting room, as he’s unable to put so much as a foot back into the office, before hightailing it out of there.

He desperately doesn’t want to repeat the experience, but at this point he’s running out of options. Myriel gives him a name of an old colleague based in Paris.

His new therapist is a woman called Dahlia. Grantaire finds it difficult to guess her age, because although the doctorates around her walls indicate at least a decade and a half in university, and her eyes are lined with laughter and time spent in the sun, she has an unshakeable air of scattered youthfulness. She dresses in jeans and t-shirts, and her office is comfortable, with a quilt over the sofa and a thick, warm rug on the floor.

She doesn’t hand him any bits of paper, just greets him with a warm smile and sits across from him on a couch, with one leg tucked under her in a way that reminds him of Cosette.

She talks about herself, first of all, tells him that she’d almost become a gelatieri instead of a psychologist, that she’d gone to school for it, even, but had eventually settled for keeping it as a hobby. They talk about what their favourite types of gelato are—hers is stracciatella, Grantaire’s is pistachio—and they talk about how Dahlia still keeps up with her old gelato masters, who write her letters with niche recommendations for the best little out-of-the-way shops in Paris.

“It’s a wonderful habit, letter writing,” says Dahlia. “Have you ever done it?”

“Written a letter?” Grantaire asks, wracking his brains. “Not that I can remember. I grew up with all the people I would have wanted to write letters to.”

“It’s a great way of practicing… Hm, I suppose concisely expressing to yourself how you think and feel. You don’t need to send the letters—in fact, it works better if you write them without the intent of sending them. It lets you think without restricting yourself.”

“That sounds nice,” Grantaire offers.

Dahlia grins. “It’s often not very nice, but it can lead to interesting revelations, and it can give you a feeling of connection, of not being adrift. I still write letters to my best friend who passed away, for example. It makes me feel connected to her.”

Grantaire feels awkward at the sudden revelation, and his mind is still floundering around the most appropriate thing to say in response, when Dahlia breezes on.

“What I’m saying is that writing, reaching out, communicating; it can be the most important thing in the world, it can change everything.”

Grantaire remembers suddenly the email he had sent to Valjean, almost ten years ago now: less than 500 words, a quiet shout into the void, and the single most meaningful communication of his entire life. He looks up and realises Dahlia is watching him.

“Are you still close to the people you would want to write letters to?” she asks.

“Geographically?” Grantaire says. “Not really, no.”

“Who are you close to, then? In the non-geographical sense.”

Grantaire barks out a laugh. ‘Close to’ doesn’t seem to quite cover it. “My family, I suppose.”

Dahlia raises her eyebrows in an encouraging sort of way, and Grantaire says, “Okay, but this is gonna sound really weird.”

Dahlia shrugs. “Why would anyone be a therapist, if not because they wanted to hear weird stuff all day?” Grantaire has to concede that point.

He launches into the story of his life, substituting ‘the compound’ for ’the Institute’, just like Joly told him. He spends more time explaining the convoluted and many-branching network of loyalties and love that make up his family, than on the technicalities of the so-called cult. He talks about The Unholy Trinity: Musichetta and Joly and Bossuet, about how they’re the ones with him now, and how they function as one strange, joyful, laughing unit. He talks about Category Five—Bahorel, Feuilly, Eponine, Jehan and himself—about how they encourage each other's best and worst impulses, how they pushed back against the blind optimism of the others to ensure they all survived. He talks about The Tetrarchy, Cosette and Combeferre and Courfeyrac and Enjolras, and their grating idealism and high-flying chatter about rights and higher principles. He talks about Enjolras, a lot.

Grantaire has barely spoken more than two consecutive sentences since arriving in Paris, but the story of his family pours out of him like a flood. He doesn’t feel like he’s having to construct ideas and sentences and lay them down laboriously. Everything he needs to say is waiting for him at the tip of his tongue.

He talks about his and Enjolras’s deteriorating relationship, about how they’ve dragged on each other for their whole lives, getting heavier and heavier. He talks about how much he cares about him, about how much he admires him. He talks about how guilty he feels. He even mentions, in a veiled sort of way, the worst moments. The rooftop, when Enjolras had tricked him into leaving Montparnasse behind. His subsequent coldness and complete lack of remorse in leaving behind all the razers. His dizzyingly high standards. His grating demands that Grantaire should try harder, and be better, and prioritise his future more. He neglects to mention the time when Enjolras shot another child in cold blood; therapists must have some kinds of rules about admissions of murder, he assumes.

He’s never spoken so candidly about his life before. The weight of it lifting from him is almost physical, a relief that goes to the bone. He has the ability, here in this room, to lay down his own interpretation of events to an objective stranger. He talks for at least half an hour, non-stop, until his voice is hoarse, until he’s caught up and he’s here in the present day, blinking in the early winter sun of Dahlia’s office.

She smiles at him, and offers him a biscuit.

“Thank you for telling me,” she says. “That must have been difficult.”

“Not really,” says Grantaire. “It was kind of a relief.”

Dahlia nods. “Communication is the only thing that cements our reality. If we don’t talk about the world around us—the things that happen to us, how we feel about them—we can get hopelessly lost. Holding our thoughts and feelings up to the light, naming them, it makes us better able to understand our own internal world, and makes it a much less frightening place. And reaching out to other people and explaining our internal world, means they can navigate through it to reach us.”

&





Dear Parental Units,

Thanks for picking up when I called the other day. I know I’m a bit of a disappointment of a feathered child. Thankfully you’ve got a crisp dozen spare and it shouldn’t set you back too much that I’ve temporarily misplaced myself (and Chetta, Joly and Sweets I guess?) yeah, sorry about that. 

I’m sorry I ran away and didn’t take my phone, I know how you don’t like that. You try really hard to play it cool and aloof but really you’re both too good at being dads for that. Sorry for worrying you. 

I’m doing okay just now. The others are looking after me, and we’re getting to see some of Paris, which is nice. The picture on the front is from the Musée des Égouts de Paris—that’s ‘Weird French Sewer Museum’ to you and me. Why is Paris so enamoured with itself that it thinks people want to look at its sewers? Why did we pay real actual money to wander round bits of Paris’s sanitation system? Why did Chetta sell this to me (while dragging me from my bed) as ‘getting out of the house for a bit’ and not ‘going into where the sewer water is, in exchange for a fee? The world is full of mysteries beyond my ken. 

I hope everybody’s okay and nobody’s too mad at me, although I guess I’d get it if they are. 

Sorry for going incommunicado. I’ll be better at answering calls from now on, I promise. 

Lots of love, 

Grantaire

&

Christmas passes without fanfare, without Courfeyrac there to make things loud and excessive. Grantaire can tell the other three miss the rest of the family, but he’s unsettled to find that he doesn’t, not exactly. Although he knows logically that he loves them more than anything in the world, it seems like all his emotions—even the bad ones—are obscured by the cold, aching horror at the centre of him. The inhabitants of the Rue Hyacinth apartment spend Christmas curled up on the couch watching Christmas movies. Grantaire has to leave, restless with some terrible twisting inner unease, to lie in the cool quiet of his room, but as soon as he does he misses the warmth of their limbs.

&

Dear Sunshine,

I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you I miss you 

I love you

Taire 

&

January and February are long and cold. If he’s honest, that’s about all Grantaire remembers of them.

&

Months slide by and Paris opens up into spring—marz and avril—and the sun shines in the windows of their apartment, boxing the floor with gold.

He goes once a week to see Dahlia, and they talk about anything and everything—mostly his family, but sometimes gelato, and work, and calligraphy, and art, and Greek myths. Sometimes they just commiserate over how difficult it is to get anywhere in the city without being blockaded by mobs of tourists.

They don’t talk about Enjolras explicitly, although Grantaire thinks Dahlia probably knows—given how often Enjolras comes up in their conversations—that that’s where the heart of the matter is at. He’s the one avoiding the topic, but with his new-found and hard-won skills of self-reflection he can at least acknowledge the reason for this: ‘cult upbringing’ or not, explaining the tangled web of love and anger and spite and devotion knotted between him and Enjolras is going to be weird and awkward and liable to render him an embarrassing and miserable puddle of tears.

Instead, they talk more generally about strategies for getting out of bed when he feels like he’d rather sink through it and into the ground until he hits the magma centre of the Earth. They talk about how to avoid the spiralling misery of self-deprecation, and how to show his flatmates he cares about them, rather than choking on guilt at every subsequent proof of their sacrifice. They talk about doing One Small Thing Each Day. They talk about philosophy, and life, and Dahlia asks him what his values are, and what he thinks about the world.

&





To my dearest Ponine, 

My therapist (yep…) told me I have to communicate more, so I’m writing this shitty postcard to you because I know the gruesomely cheesy

le cafe! bonjour! l’amour! voyage! croissant! 

sparkle sparkle heart heart design 

will make your goddamn eyes bleed :) 

how’s things for me, you ask?

well everything sucks and our siblings are fucking annoying and they keep making me eat cause we feathered folk have ~fast metabolisms~ blah blah blah. honestly it’s fucking exhausting. 

i miss the strand road mcdonalds. is that a weird thing to miss? i miss dipping chips in ice cream and throwing them into Bahorel’s gaping leviathan maw 

that being said, Paris does have Fancy McDonalds. The Maccy-Dees on Rue Saint-Lazare is like… a weird fancy little town house with sash windows and a decorative facade. also, they give you mayonnaise with your fries in France. the french are very pretentious but they do know how to do some things right. 

how’s things with you? hope you’re liking the computer hacking stuff. be sure to remember lil old me when you’ve stolen Jeff Bezos’s billions out of his bank account and are using them to build your own house on mars. 

hope cos and marius aren’t being too sickening. 

ly baby 

R 

&

On clear days, Bossuet fireman-carries Grantaire to the Jardin de Luxembourg, dumps him on the ground and points out the shapes of clouds slipping past in the immense blue summer sky.

It’s on one of these days, nine months after they left London, that feeling slips back into Grantaire’s soul, like a thin curtain of light through a crack in a wall.

He’s gazing up at a particular set of clouds, spread-eagled on the warm grass. The clouds look like immense, feathery white birds, fluffed up and streaked by the blue of the sky. Their beauty makes his breath catch, makes something small and tender inside him ache, fills him with the bizarre urge to reach out and touch, run his fingers along the clear, bright lines of sky and cloud. This sudden, almost violent appreciation for something as simple as the sky splits Grantaire open and leaves him feeling exposed, soft and vulnerable and new, blinking in light too bright. Tears well up in his eyes, and by the time Bossuet jogs back over from the rose garden, eyes comically wide, Grantaire is openly weeping, blinking up into the sky at where one cloud-bird has joined another to form a swirling dragon.

Bossuet, who always reverts to wordlessness in periods of stress, brandishes his arms in a kind of what the ever-loving fuck?! gesture, and spins on the spot to find the source of Grantaire’s distress. He looks so comical, so Bossuet, that it makes Grantaire laugh through his tears. He laughs harder than he can remember doing in years, and relief aches in his heart, like his brain has suddenly remembered how to feel and is running his body through a test pilot of every emotion it can fathom.

Bossuet's silent panic grows with every second that Grantaire can’t stop laugh-crying, until Grantaire manages to calm himself down enough to explain that no, no, he’s fine, he’s great.

Bossuet doesn’t seem totally reassured, and a quick text to the Rue Hyacinth group chat prompts a spontaneous evening meet-up with Joly and Musichetta, who come straight from work.

They meet at the pont de Neuf, with the sun melting on the Seine behind them. Grantaire can’t stop noticing the tourists, the street art, the sweet, delicate lines of the buildings on the boulevard, and the warm street lamps flickering on like stars. He feels as if whatever blockage that has been keeping his words at bay has become unstoppered, and a torrent of observations flow forth, on everything and anything that catches his eye.

They make their way to one of the small plazas near their apartment—Grantaire drapes himself across the arms of Joly’s chair and Bossuet whirls them down the street, causing tourists to scatter like panicked fish. If Joly, Musichetta, and Bossuet are confused or alarmed by the sudden change in him, they don’t question it, instead opting to join in with his sudden joi de vive. They have dinner in the plaza, where someone is singing French love songs to the soft harmony of a guitar. Grantaire drinks sweet, ice-cold cola, and eats pizza in the warmth of the evening, and they laugh and talk about nothing, and wander home eating gelato, and Grantaire falls in love with life again, at first sight, like a glimpse of golden wings.

&

This new, golden happiness lasts around a week before it starts to slip through Grantaire’s fingers like sand. He tries desperately hard to staunch the flow, but the harder he tries to keep a grip on his own thoughts the more they evade him. He’s terrified of how miserable he can become, frustrated by how meaningless it all is, at how doggedly beyond reason his suffering can be. He can see the apathy in his future yawning up in front of him like some massive, cataclysmic drop, and he can’t find any way to anchor himself to the tipping ground. He wants to be happy. What he wants has very little to do with it.

By the next Monday he is restless with self-directed fury, and shouts at Musichetta when she tries to convince him to eat. She doesn’t look in the least offended, just honestly surprised. He storms out, barely able to comprehend how loud and angry it is inside his head. Then he notices Joly following him, and stops.

“Hah!” Joly crows, wheeling down the ramp outside their building.

Grantaire glowers at him.

“Look,” says Joly reasonably, stopping just short of Grantaire’s toes. “It’s not my fault that it’s bad manners to flee from the disabled. I don’t make the rules, I just exploit them.”

Grantaire ignores him, turns to walk away, then turns back irritatedly. “Can I…?” he asks, with a bit more of a bite than he’d prefer, but less of a snarl than his first instincts might initially have suggested to him.

Joly nods with an ironic smile and waves like be my guest. Grantaire grips the chair’s handles so hard his knuckles go white, but when he moves off it’s at a gentle, easy pace, and in no direction in particular. 

He doesn’t want to look into Joly’s too-kind, too-understanding face—Joly can’t walk, Joly has problems. Grantaire has a horrible personality and a self-destructive streak a mile wide; he doesn’t deserve all this solicitude. He doesn’t deserve a family who accept him shouting at them for trying to help, who move countries at a moment’s notice to look after him, who support him financially, emotionally, and physically because he can’t be fucked to do it for himself. He deserves nothing and being given so much makes him despise himself all the more. He wants to run and hide and never talk to anyone ever again.

Instead, he’s stuck here, with his upsettingly well-intentioned family, and he feels like he’ll never be able to escape their cloying, claustrophobic love. He fantasises of a day when they won’t care about him, when he’ll be able to disappear completely, or die, without being choked by guilt or haunted by the thought of what it would do to them. It doesn’t seem fair that he carries around every day, like a sleeper agent, the ability to destroy twelve lives that aren’t even his own.

Depression has razed just about every emotion out of Grantaire. His humour, his preferences, his personality; all smoke on the wind. But the devotion he feels for his family is bedrock, the very foundation of his soul. It’s not a feeling, it’s integral—it’s the goddamn air he breathes.

And Christ, does he hate them for it.

“So anger, huh?” says Joly, breaking Grantaire’s revery. “That’s not as fun as the giggling but at least it’ll be entertaining when Chetta removes your limbs.”

Grantaire looks down at the crown of Joly’s head, but can't find words in himself to reply.

They walk all the way down past the Église du Val-de-Grâce, towards the Jardins des Plantes, which is one of Joly’s favourite places.

Finally, in the greenhouse amongst the ferns, Grantaire sits down on a bench tucked into a corner. It’s quiet, the middle of the day, and there’s no one else around.

Joly spins his chair around expertly, and fixes Grantaire with an unusually serious expression.

Grantaire sighs and finds his voice. “What do you want Joly?”

"Not a thing baby,” says Joly, grinning. “What do you want?"

Grantaire huffs a breath of air. "Not a thing, Joly."

"Oh, come on, Grantaire," says Joly, and shockingly, he hears a sliver of irritation slip into Joly's voice. Joly puts his hands on the arms of his chair and leans forward, forcing Grantaire to meet his eyes. "Tell me, what do you want? What does a happy future look like for Taire?"

"There isn't one," says Grantaire. He's being perfectly honest; he's thought about it. There isn't any version of the future that appeals to him. He misses Enjolras horribly. 

Joly rams his chair forwards into Grantaire’s shin with cheerful malice.

"Ow!” Grantaire says pointedly. 

"That's not an option," says Joly, brightly. "Try again."

"I don't know, I don't—There isn't anything missing from my life now. A normal person would be happy with what they have, with what I have. I have you guys, I have money and enough food, and no one is torturing me on a daily basis. What more can a guy ask for?"

"I mean…” Joly’s eyes are bugging out of his head, just a bit. “You are allowed more? Than that? It's not greedy to want more than not being tortured. For fuck’s sake, Taire, that bar isn’t just low, it’s on the fucking ground! That bar is somewhere in the basement and it hasn’t been seen in years! Mice have taken that bar, and have used it to construct a sturdy home for their children and grandchildren in the depths of the earth, to live out the remainder of their mousy lives!”

Grantaire blinks at him. “That metaphor get away from you a bit towards the end there, Joly?”

Joly waves his arms vaguely. “The mice got hold of it, what can I say. Stop avoiding the question!”

Grantaire can’t honestly think of what he wants. He knows his strengths, his weaknesses—he’s seen them laid out in bullet points in old reports from the Institute, has had the pleasure of hearing Enjolras list them with equal amounts of recrimination, as if his strengths are just as damning as his flaws. He knows what he needs for continuation of life: his family, food, occasional liberal application of alcohol, and to be left alone. But what he wants? What things would bring him joy? Fulfilment? He can no more guess at that than he can read the stars.

&





Rel, 

today I found a rock shaped like a butt and I thought of you. 

but guess where I found the rock? 

THE CATACOMBS 

hell yeah babey! 

so technically you’re not supposed to go in the catacombs without a tour guide, they even block off the entrances and stuff. but!! I do have superpowers. and what are they for if not to sneak into weird underground labyrinthine murder caves? also I was hiding from our well-meaning familia because they keep trying to pressure me into wholesome activities like ‘going for walks’ and ‘getting an early night’. 

apparently the police found, like, secret cinemas and restaurants down there. I didn’t find any of them, just the touristy bit that’s full of bones, and a fuck ton of bad graffiti. I also found a relative of yours—this big weird bird man (the dude on the front). Doesn’t he kinda look like he’s holding up the whole place? to be honest I was a bit worried because he’s got nobody spotting him—thought he might accidentally drop the thing on his own face (and my head) like you did that one time with the bar weight

sorry to hear Feu has been super boring recently. anyone voluntarily spending time studying with Enjolras has clearly been struck down by brain sickness. have you considered lobotomising? 

life is as wondrous as always here in the life of Taire. today I told a customer that we didn’t have any quiche lorraine left and they told me they were going to kill me. I said ‘promise?’ and they complained to my manager. c’est la vie. 

much loves, 

R

p.s this goes without saying but don’t tell anyone not C5 about my subterranean activities

p.s.s. don’t worry I’ll keep the butt rock for you

&

THIS IS THE VOICEMAIL OF jehan amis PLEASE LEAVE YOUR MESSAGE AFTER THE TONE 

=====

Hey, it’s me.

I’ve been writing postcards to people because of this dumb therapy homework thing—did Ponine tell you about it? Well anyway, I’ve even been sending some of them, go me. but I don’t have one of those fancy brail printer things and I figured you’d rather hear my dulcet tones anyway. 

I don’t have much news to be honest. Life is life, it goes on. Barista-ing for tourists is deeply unfun but my latte art is coming along in leaps and phallic bounds. 

I miss you guys. I particularly miss you guys, you know, my fellow bastards. I gotta be real careful with the dark humour around these three, lest they give me the Sad Eyes. Not to be insensitive but should count yourself lucky that you’re immune to that shit. 

That reminds me, I read about a really weird restaurant in one of the magazines in the break room the other day. It’s called Dans le Noir? That’s not me asking a question, the restaurant really has a question mark in the name, it’s pretentious like that. So the premise is… the restaurant is completely unlit? Like, pitch black, inside. It’s staffed by blind and visually impaired people, but dumb non-blind customers like me are apparently always, like… spilling their wine glasses and shit, it sounds hilarious. 

There’s a whole lot on the website about how it’s designed to, like, reawaken your senses and reinvigorate your relationship with the world and encourage positive empathy with blind people… All sounds pretty pretentious to me, to be honest. Let's all struggle in the dark with our forks for a while and think about how rough blind people have it… Is that a good idea? I don’t know if that’s a good idea. But the thought of you in this restaurant is so hilarious to me, cause obviously you’d be the only one in there with any idea what was going on. Think of all the myriad ways you could freak people out.

Anyway, I hope you’re doing good and enjoying your job—you’re at the RSPCA now, right? Do you get to beat up people who are mean to animals? That sounds really cathartic. 

I read that poetry book you sent me…yeah, that was really fucking bleak, jehan, I’m not going to lie to you. Whole lot more war crimes than I ever remember seeing in Ode to a Nightingale or whatever. 

I did like it though. “What is silence? Something of the sky in us.” Kinda feels like that was written by someone with wings, huh?

Anyway, I better go. 

Love you buddy. 

&

Given the many horrible things that have happened to Grantaire in the course of his nineteen years on the planet, it’s strange that in retrospect he remembers the first year after leaving London as being the most difficult of his life. Every living moment of it is a struggle. Having gone a long time without feeling much in the way of emotion at all, he now feels joy, boredom, fury, curiosity and elation all flit by on an hourly basis, often with very little provocation. To his utter horror, tears start to choke his throat at inopportune moments, like during Disney films. They also come at night, in place of the aching emptiness, when his brain helpfully supplies him with the knowledge that Enjolras has passed his first set of exams with flying colours and he, Grantaire, Enjolras’s favourite person, wasn’t there to celebrate with him. 

It’s awful but in many ways it’s preferable to before. When he’d first come to Paris he’d felt completely adrift, like he’d had his sails cut loose without Enjolras’s guiding wind. What reason was there to get out of bed, if not to appease Enjolras? Now he just...misses him, horribly and constantly, like a toothache. It’s probably a whole lot healthier, psychologically speaking, and Grantaire has now become a person who thinks about that, if only quietly and in the back of his head.

He starts sketching on napkins in the cafe where he works, little character studies of the tourists that crowd the room at lunchtime, or when it rains. He tries to use as few strokes of pencil as possible to catch a likeness, like a game, and comes home at the end of the day with pockets full of crumpled tissue paper. One of his flatmates must notice though, because one evening a sketchpad appears on his bed.

He drinks less, and when he does drink Joly and Bossuet keep him company, pull him back into the spinning world of fizzy hilarity and out of the deep pools of apathy that tug at his feet.

It’s on one of these silly drunken days that Grantaire first hears about it. He, Joly and Bossuet are drinking cheap wine and smoking weed on the quais near the Pont des Arts, part of a long broken line of students and teenagers looking out over the Seine and taking advantage of the sunny day. Grantaire is drinking more than the other two, but not as much as he would without them, and they're such warm, comfortable company that he can't help but feel happy.

“-she can't find it anywhere,” Joly is saying, idly waving the spliff about and letting most of it fall on the ground. “She thinks someone at work might have stolen it. I volunteered the idea of alien abduction, she said what would an alien want with my leopard-print handbag, which I thought was rude because there's nothing to say aliens don't like leopard-print—”

Bossuet nods sagely in agreement.

Grantaire says, “Do they have leopards in space? Space leopards? Spepards?”

“Don't be ridiculous,” sniffs Joly, backed by a disdainful looking Bossuet. “Aliens probably aren't even carbon based organisms, and leopards are super evolutionarily specific to their environments.”

“Doesn't mean they don't like fashion,” says Bossuet seriously.

“You don't need to have carbon bonds in your DNA to appreciate a nice leopard print handbag,” Joly agrees.

“Anyway,” says Bossuet.

“Anyway,” says Joly, “I said to her, maybe you should think really hard about it, like with Grantaire, then if it's someone from work she can, like, rain pain or whatever, and if it's an alien, we get to be on the forefront of alien discovery.”

“Win-win,” says Bossuet.

There’s quiet for a moment, as the spliff gets passed down the line, and then Grantaire says, “Wait. What about me?”

Bossuet and Joly turn to look at him.

“Do you want to talk about you for a while?” Bossuet asks.

“We could sing you an ode,” says Joly. “Would you like an ode, Taire?”

“You said if Chetta ‘thought really hard about it, like with me’, she’d find the handbag,” says Grantaire. “You said it not three seconds ago, mon frere.”

“Like when we found out where you were in Paris,” explains Joly, clear as mud.

“How did you find out where I was in Paris?” Grantaire asks.

“Cause Chetta’s psychic,” says Joly easily, taking a long draw from the spliff.

There's a long, long pause.

“I don't think he knew that,” observes Bossuet.

“Of course he knew that!” says Joly airily.

“I did not know that,” says Grantaire, sitting up straight. “Putain! She's psychic?”

“Who are you calling Putin?” mumbles Bossuet into the wine bottle.

Joly squints at him. “You really didn’t know? She had a dream of you walking out the front door of that crack house you were staying in. And also working in the cafe. Ponine got google street view up and ten minutes later we knew where to find you, it was kind of cool.”

“Kind of cool?!” Grantaire says incredulously. “Ya think?”

“You can’t be that surprised,” says Joly. “Chetta’s always known things she shouldn't. She's always right, everyone knows that.”

“I thought she just had more sense than the rest of us!” says Grantaire, boggling at the two of them, jarred into sobriety by the information he’s wrestling with. “I didn't realise she had a literal sixth sense!”

“She’s always had weird dreams and hunches,” says Bossuet with a shrug. “It's just Chetta. Like how Jehan never bumps into anything.”

“How did I not know this?” Grantaire asks. “I’ve lived with the girl for my whole life, how did I miss…psychicness.”

“To be honest I think she always played it down because she thought you guys would involve her in some kind of lottery fraud,” says Joly.

Grantaire can accept that; God knows what Category Five would have done with knowledge given to them by a bona-fide clairvoyant.

It makes sense, Grantaire supposes, in a kind of roundabout way. What he’s always known about Musichetta—that she has fantastic instincts—isn’t too far from the truth. It’s just that her instincts are apparently way, way off the other end of the bell curve in terms of accuracy.

"So is it like what Cos does?" Grantaire asks.

Joly looks thoughtful. “We’ve talked about this before… We don't think so. Cosette talks about her whole bit as, like, things feeling right, you know? Like, if you put Cos in front of a branching path, she'd always be able to feel which one is the right one. Whereas with Chetta, if the road—or the decision—is important, she might dream about it beforehand. But if not, she wouldn't be much more in the know than the rest of us—although she’s pretty good at working stuff out from context clues. She's not lucky, but sometimes, if an important choice is coming up, she dreams about it. She says that's how she knew it was time to leave the Institute, way back when. It doesn't happen all that often."

“What about you?” Grantaire asks Bossuet. “Does your unluckiness… feel like anything?”

Bossuet shakes his head slowly. “No, but Cos thinks I should try and get more in touch with my instincts. She thinks that I’m, fuck, what did she call it?”

“Paying attention to the same subconscious environmental cues as she is,” says Joly, his attention focused on his faltering attempting to blow a smoke ring.

“Right! She thinks I’m picking up the same stuff as her, but my brain isn’t differentiating it as good or bad, and therein lies the rub! It’s always worse when I’m not paying attention. When I’m distracted, that’s when the bad luck always kicks in.”

“Uh huh,” says Grantaire distractedly, watching the wine bottle Bossuet’s just nudged with his foot roll into the Seine with a plop. He tactfully decides not to mention it. 

On their way home, wandering through one of the hundreds of Paris’s markets, Grantaire picks up a set of tarot cards from a stall selling plastic-gemmed rings and incense sticks.

“What. Are. They,” says Musichetta disdainfully, when he waves them in her face that evening.

“Well, apparently you’re psychic, so I thought we could experiment!”

Musichetta narrows her eyes at him, then at Joly and Bossuet. “You told him?”

“He wasn’t supposed to know?” asks Joly innocently, all but his twinkling eyes lost behind his giant novelty mug in the shape of Baymax.

“Experiment,” she says, turning back to Grantaire, stirring her tea with a little more aggression than would usually be required. “Do you have any idea how many of your experiments have almost landed Bossuet in hospital?”

“He can stand outside!” protests Grantaire.

“Ooh, that's a bad idea,” murmurs Joly to a nodding Bossuet. “Does he know how many times Outside has almost landed you in hospital?”

“Outside is not my friend,” says Bossuet seriously.

“How badly can it go?” asks Grantaire. “Look, here,” he shuffles the deck and picks one, holds it out. There's a man on a horse with a sword in his hand. “Now we know to…uh. Look out for dashing men on horseback!”

Joly and Bossuet laugh but Musichetta is staring at the card, her eyes slightly out of focus. She half reaches out her hand, as if to touch it, then pulls back.

She frowns a little, more bemused than angry. “Put it away, Taire.”

“C’mon, aren’t you curious?” Grantaire asks.

“I’m exactly the opposite of curious,” says Musichetta drily. She looks a little amused, a little reluctant, a little soft around the edges. It’s the way she looks at Bossuet and Joly. It’s her ‘I love you so I’ll accept this unfortunate turn of events’ face.

Grantaire knows when to press an advantage. He can’t believe his sister is psychic, this is buck fucking wild. “Shuffle them! See what happens!”

Musichetta turns the cards over in her hands, running her fingers over the gaudy patterns on the back of the deck. Then, decisively, she snaps them together in a butterfly motion, fans them out, and picks three from the top.

Grantaire hasn’t told her how to deal—he wonders if she’s looked into this before, in spite of her protests.

The three cards lie demurely on the table top, a series of pictures that mean less than nothing to Grantaire.

The first card is upside down and features a naked couple circled overhead by Cupid; when Grantaire squints he can read the words THE LOVERS at the bottom of the card. The second is the right way up, and features an angel pouring water into a jug, and says TEMPERANCE. The third card, which Grantaire gets half a glance at before Musichetta slams her open palm over it and crumples it up, is a tower with lightning striking the top.

Musichetta looks ill.

“We’re not playing this anymore,” she snaps. “I didn’t even want to—Fuck this.” She snaps jerkily to her feet, half-turns as if lost, then grabs her jacket up from the chair, heading for the door.

“Uhh—” says Bossuet.

“Where are you going?” calls Joly.

“Out,” says Musichetta, and the door closes behind her.

&

Grantaire buys her a bunch of flowers, some of the French press coffee that she loves, and six bags of gummy worms as an apology. He also writes her a note, because communication is important, Dahlia says, and he’s learning. He tells Musichetta he’s sorry, and because the note is on the back of a cheesy postcard of the Eiffel tower, his post-script includes the fun fact that because the tower is made of iron, it grows by six inches during the summer months, and also leans away from the sun.

Musichetta throws a gummy worm at his head, hugs him, and gives him some of her coffee, which he takes to mean she forgives him.

&

New locks appear on the front door, and a safety light goes on when Grantaire comes home after dark.

&





Dearest feu, 

I’ve found you the coolest building. 

so I was at the louvre—and no, the cool building isn’t the louvre, I assume you’ve heard of the louvre from fancy architecture school and my aim is always to expand your horizons. anyway I was at the louvre and I got hungry, so I was walking about trying to find somewhere to buy a sandwich for less than €50 (which is more difficult than you’d think in central Paris) and I came across this absolute monstrosity of a building.

it's called the centre pompidou and it’s inside out! how fucking grooooovy is that? it's all girders and pipes and stuff—and it's not even just for the aesthetic, the blue pipes are actually the heating, the yellow ones are the electrics, the green ones are… plumbing? I don’t know how buildings work. but the red pipe is definitely an escalator. the sign said that building it like that meant that there was more room inside? this doesn’t appear to be something that they’ve struggled with, spatially speaking, there is so much fucking room on the inside. i got lost for hours and I couldn’t even breadcrumb trail my way out of there (still hadn’t found a sandwich). 

it’s got the paris modern art museum in it (the biggest in Europe apparemment) and there’s a big plaza thing with mimes and jugglers and stuff. there’s also this huge water feature that’s full of big lips and music notes and stuff (I think it has something to do with some composer). and the inventor of the mobile (not a thing I ever considered there being an inventor for) did a giant oversized mobile for the plaza too (quelle surprise) (it was actually kinda ugly I won’t lie to ya feu, your origami birbs have maintained their place at the peak of dangling innovation)

anyway that’s what’s new with me. I lost fifteen years of my life in there, it was like the island of the lotus eaters, I got home and Joly had grown a beard. I never did get my sandwich and I think the creepy lips from the fountain have been following me ever since. 4/5 stars! great for a day trip, would go back!

love and kisses, 

R

&

Grantaire has never particularly thought of himself as a person with Values, but Dahlia assures him that, like spare batteries, most people tend to have at least a few lying around, even if they don’t pay much attention to them.

She says that, in her opinion, Grantaire appears to be a person who—contrary to his own self-description—actually cares very deeply about doing the right thing, but that his sense of moral certitude seems to be complicated by an aggressively pragmatic nature and a keen eye for nuance and shades of grey. They speak a bit about Grantaire’s perception of the world as a place where binaries like good and evil or right and wrong cannot truly exist, and why that might have caused him to find such comfort in Greek myths as a child.

“I mean, I could be wrong,” Dahlia says, crunching absently on a boiled sweet from the little basket on her coffee table. “It’s been a while since I read my Ovid. But I remember the world of Greek myths as one where random, horrible, unfair disasters befall people every day. I’m sure that’s a world you could relate to as a child. And the heroes in a lot of those stories survived, didn’t they, not by being particularly brave or principled, but by being the cleverest or the sneakiest. By coming up with the best plan. I can see why that would have been a powerful narrative for you. It accepts the world as being a difficult, mean place, without inherent justice. And it still gives you some way of…not controlling it, I suppose. But mitigating it. Innovating your way around it.”

Grantaire reluctantly concedes she might have a point.

Dahlia continues, “You have a very distinctive way of viewing the world, you know. You believe that you should do your best to behave in a way that’s moral and just. But you have absolutely no expectation that the world will treat you in kind.”

Grantaire offers her a nodding shrug and eats another one of the French mint humbug things.

“How do you think that compares with how Enjolras sees the world?” Dahlia asks.

Grantaire narrows his eyes at her and crunches down on the sweet. “Pretty much diametrically opposed? He thinks the world should be a good place, but the world never lives up his ridiculously high expectations, so he thinks that he’s entitled to do whatever it takes to get it there.”

Dahlia nods slowly. “Diametrically opposed is an interesting way to put it. Have you ever tried to find common ground?”

Grantaire snorts. “We’ve shouted around the issue plenty of times,” he says. He’s embedded a piece of boiled sweet into one of his molars, potentially forever. He prods it with his tongue sadly. “What kind of middle ground even is there, in this situation? The world’s shit and we can’t change it and we can do whatever we want and there shouldn’t be consequences?”

Dahlia rolls her eyes at him. “Or,” she suggests drily, “the world is both good and bad, and it’s within everyone’s power to both contribute to the good and to actively try and alleviate the bad?”

“Sure,” mutters Grantaire. “It sounds easy when you say it like that. But you try having a civil conversation with Enjolras.”

Dahlia grins and pops another humbug in her mouth. “Well, he’s not my favourite person in the world,” she says. “Have you tried?

&

Dear Enj,

Do you know you can still see the marks where the guillotine sat on Rue de la Roquette? Five squares slabs are all that’s left of the foundations of the most efficient death machine of the 19th century.

There’s still a cannonball embedded in the wall of the Hotel de Sens from the 1830 July insurrection, when the citizens of Paris took up arms and built barricades in the Hotel de Ville district.

The Pont de la Concorde (previously the Pont de la Révolution) was built from the bricks of the Bastille. They tore it down and forged the Seine with it. 

What I’m saying is... what am I saying?

People walk around and live their lives and think about dinner and work and rent and they do it all in the shadows of such... tectonic violence. How do you drink coffee next to the remains of a guillotine? How do you walk over the Bastille? How do you ignore tragedy when it’s so fundamental it shapes the pavement under your feet? When misery is in your bricks and mortar how do you ever build anything good? What kind of architecture can fix that? When every pothole is a mass grave? 

I don’t actually know if you can. 

Yours always,

Grantaire 

&

That letter, like all the others addressed to Enjolras, gets folded carefully into one of his sketchbooks, and doesn’t get sent. 

&

A whole year has passed since leaving London and Grantaire only feels like he wants to die about 50% of the time now, which he considers to be a marked improvement. It’s around this time that he starts to notice that hello, he’s in Paris, and he starts to leave the apartment under his own steam, rather than having to be forced out of it by work, a need for groceries or his family. He spends hours and hours in the Louvre, staring up at the art until his neck aches. He reads book after book: crime thrillers with bent spines, pastel-covered romantic comedies for middle-aged women, classics in boring dust covers, winding philosophical essays, pop science. He learns how to pick locks for the hell of it and practices when his fingers itch to comb social media for signs of how Enjolras is doing. He boxes at the local gym, grins whenever anyone asks why he's wearing so many layers inside. He sketches on his lunch breaks and laughs with his co-workers, makes friends with the regulars at his work and memorises their coffee orders.

One regular is a tiny woman with dark hair and eyes, and every time she orders a coffee he writes the wrong name on her paper cup. In his defense, hers is an even dumber name than his, what kind of name is Mardisoir? He writes Samedimidi and Lundimatin, and March 2nd, and she smirks at him and banters back with equal vigour (“Why is your first name a last name, monsieur, are you sure you’re not confused? Is your last name John? Are you sure you haven’t got the wrong end of the stick here?”) She comes in every single day, at 6pm on her way home from work, because she lives upstairs from the coffee shop and apparently is incapable of going about her day without liberal application of chocolate-syrup-infused iced coffee.

Until one day, she doesn't.

Grantaire notices, and for the first few days assumes that she's sick. A few more days and he wonders if maybe he should nip upstairs and offer to deliver her coffee to her door. But he's not sure if that's creepy or weird, and he doesn't want to make his favourite regular uncomfortable in the coffee shop underneath her own flat, so he doesn't check on her, just worries a little in the back of his brain, and misses his tiny goth customer.

The man who storms into the cafe at 7pm, exactly a week after Mardisoir stops coming to the shop, is wearing a leather jacket over a black hoodie and a deeply menacing demeanour. The hood is pulled low over his face and large dark sunglasses obscure most of the rest of it. He strides up to the—thankfully empty—counter in a way that isn’t quite the normal manner of the banally coffee-seeking, and observes Grantaire steadily. Grantaire meets his own eyes in the dark reflective sunglasses.

The silence stretches on. It isn’t the most awkward social interaction Grantaire has ever had, by dint of Jehan, but it certainly makes the top ten.

"Let me guess," says Grantaire. "You want the unicorn frappe."

"My name is Claquesous, I'm a private investigator. There's a girl who comes in here—short, dark hair. She lives in the apartment upstairs. You know her?"

"Sure," says Grantaire. "Mardisoir."

"When was the last time you saw her?" says Claquesous, and Grantaire is sure that his eyes are narrowing behind his sunglasses. This is a man with a very narrow-eyed kinda vibe.

“Last Tuesday," says Grantaire, immediately and uncharacteristically serious. "Is she alright?"

"No, she's missing and you were the last person to see her," Claquesous says. "Lucky you. I'll wait over there for your shift to end." With that, he turns abruptly and makes for a tall table in the corner, perching on the edge of a stool.

Since leaving the Institute there has always been a part of Grantaire's mind that has been completely devoted to avoiding the excess notice of strangers. Claquesous stares unwaveringly at him for three hours and under that scrutiny Grantaire begins to psychologically fray at the edges, just a bit, but he does his best not to show that it bothers him.

His shift ends at 10pm, and fifteen minutes before that, Grantaire's resolve breaks. The cafe is clean, the machines are wiped down, and there’s no one left except him and the definitely-capable-of-murdering-him-trust-him-he-has-a-sense-for-these-things man. He takes off his apron and walks over to where Claquesous is sitting, still watching him.

Grantaire looks for something to say, rocks on his feet.

Claquesous stares straight back at him, completely unfazed.

"What happened?" Grantaire asks finally.

"Mardisoir went missing sometime between you seeing her on Tuesday evening, and Wednesday morning, when she was supposed to turn up to work."

"I definitely saw her at six o’clock,” says Grantaire. "It's always six on the dot that she comes in.“

Claquesous nods. "So sometime in the twelve hours between then and six in the morning."

"Unless there's another way out of her apartment, that window is between ten pm and six. I closed up that night and I would have seen her leaving."

Claquesous regards him, face completely expressionless. "Running a busy coffee shop, surely you could have missed her leaving. She's not exactly tall."

"I could," Grantaire concedes. "But I wouldn't have. I don't miss things like that."

“How unusual,” says Claquesous without inflection.

All of Grantaire’s family have heightened observational skills: lurking anxiety about faceless government institutions that definitely want bad things for you is a hell of a motivating force for paying attention to your surroundings. Dahlia calls it hypervigilance, which Grantaire thinks puts too negative a spin on it. It’s important to have the measure of a situation; it’s a useful, life-saving skill, and more importantly it's a necessary competency for anyone who shares living space with Bahorel or Feuilly. 

Grantaire will admit that, after Jehan, his own unceasing attention to detail is probably the most excessive. As a person who walks around every day with a pair of wings on his back, Grantaire can’t help but notice that most normal people don’t actually look properly at the world around them. They see what they expect to see and they don’t pick up on incongruences—or if they do, their brains mark them as not important and they forget about them quickly. Grantaire doesn’t do that: he always knows how many people are in a room, what they’re doing and what exactly the likelihood is of them being able to do him harm. He keeps track of exits and points of egress. He looks into the corners—he doesn’t let his brain fool him into thinking ‘there’s nothing important there’, he looks. Sometimes, on trains and on his walk to work, Grantaire will catch his mind idly rehearsing what he would do if the man walking towards him suddenly pulled a gun, or if he came home to find his family kidnapped. Dahlia says that’s a normal thing for brains to do—even for people without trauma—but Grantaire still feels a bit morbid when he catches himself doing it.

The thing is, most people don’t pay attention back. Grantaire doesn’t like that Claquesous is doing it now for a multitude of reasons. Numero uno: Grantaire’s government-assigned superpower is literally being inconspicuous—is Claquesous immune? Is he just so bloody-minded that he’s ignoring every subconscious signal telling his brain to ignore Grantaire? Why? He’s a fucking barista. Numero dos: Grantaire has more secrets than most people have baby photos, starting with his baseline anatomy, and he’d really rather nobody found out about any of them. And numero tres: he’s finding it completely fucking impossible to get a read on Claquesous, and it’s filling him with a deep, deep unease. He doesn’t like not having a reasonable grasp of what the person in front of him is thinking. Right now all he knows is that Claquesous is studying him very, very intently from behind his sunglasses, and Grantaire doesn’t like that at all.

“Let me know if there’s anything else I can do to help,” Grantaire says, feebly. Claquesous still hasn’t said anything, but he’s watching him very closely.

Eventually Claquesous nods sharply. "If you hear anything, will you give me a call?" He hands Grantaire a business card. It has no more information on it than he has given Grantaire already. Just his name and a phone number. It really doesn’t make Grantaire feel any better about the whole situation.

&

That night, Grantaire climbs the fire escape to the top of their apartment building. The building is one of the taller in the neighbourhood, rising above the glow of the street lamps. The very tip of the Eiffel Tower is just visible over a neighbouring garrett, and the Seine is a dark glittering slick in the distance. The rooftop itself is poorly lit. The moon is less than half full, and clouds, caught in a high wind, speed across the sky and send shifting shadows over Paris.

Grantaire reaches out and tries to feel the darkness around him. In the past, what control he’d had over the illusory, shifting penumbra had been intrinsically linked to the amount of internal anguish he was feeling at any given time. Making him upset or causing him pain had been the Invigilators’ preferred way of getting results from him, and even when he’d consciously tried to control the shadows for his own purposes, he’d usually used self-recrimination and hatred to obtain the effect. He’s never questioned whether it was necessary—whether he had to generate despair as rocket fuel to feed to his powers—or whether it was just that the sociopaths who had trained him had found it the easiest and most efficient method.

A year of therapy has left Grantaire with an inkling of an idea that mentally screaming abuse at himself might not be the healthiest way to achieve results. He does it often enough without meaning to; he can’t imagine Dahlia would approve of him doing it consciously and strategically.

So he tries to do without. He lets his mind settle into quietude, allows himself to feel relaxed and a little cold and a little apprehensive, but not scared or unhappy. And he tries to pull the shadows towards himself. Nothing happens.

A little voice in the back of Grantaire’s head—apparently under the impression it’s being helpful—says of course it didn’t work, why would you be able to do anything right, and the shadows lunge suddenly towards him across the roof. Grantaire barks out a brittle laugh and hurls them away again. He imagines holding up the little voice inside his head—in his imagination it looks like a slimy green cartoon caterpillar, with big bug eyes and a sad expression—and tells it firmly to stop being so unproductive and annoying.

And then he tries again.

It’s hellishly difficult. The thing about the shadows is that they aren’t actually shadows. They’re swathes of altered perception that obscure things from people’s attention—but that’s too much of a mouthful for Grantaire to contend with, even in his own head. The actual darkness, the lack of light, is just a feature of how people perceive the thing their brains are telling them they can’t see. And for Grantaire, this practice of rendering himself functionally invisible is singularly entwined with a fixed, feverish desire to disappear from the world altogether. Trying to achieve the same effect without that emotional cue is going to take some careful rewiring.

First he thinks about the shape of the natural light around him, as he does when he’s examining the direction of light in a painting. He lets his eyes go soft and unfocused, concentrating on how the light feels, the texture of its presence around him—not bad, or scary, but an exhilarating kind of calm, a coolness that envelopes him.

Then, slowly and steadily, with a vice-like grip on his inner thoughts, he pulls at the places where the light is the thinnest, drawing them towards him. The rooftop darkens by slow, laborious increments, until the outline of Grantaire’s trainers on the ground grows less distinct. 

The process is arduous, awkward and exhausting. Every time Grantaire drops his attention for a half second, he feels the slick slide of negative thoughts creeping in again, causing the shadows to darken. Every time, he stops, letting the shadows spring back to their original places before starting again. Considering he used to be able to turn out all the lights in a building and conduct sweeping curtains of darkness like they were his own personal light show, it’s disappointing to know that now all he can do is make a dark rooftop slightly gloomier.

When he finds that the negative thoughts are starting to creep further and further into his consciousness—he imagines an army of little wriggling cartoon caterpillars, waggling towards him with grim determination every time his back is turned—he stops for the night.

But he goes back up the next night and tries again. And then the night after that.

Grantaire learned ballet from a master. Nevertheless, he thinks if he’d taught himself ballet in a pitch black room without a mirror, and then tried to relearn the skill many years later—this time with proper technique and discipline—the process might not have been dissimilar to this one. He finds himself slipping into bad habits—poor form, Floreal would say—automatically pulling on the ever-present loose-thread of misery in his soul, as unconsciously as he’d sometimes rolled his arches in ballet class. The little voice in the back of his head is always there, waiting for a moment of distraction to regale him with thoughts of his childhood and regrets about his relationship with his family and with Enjolras, or with the many wasted years of unhappiness. He constantly has to pull himself back, yank himself away from unhelpful thoughts and unreasonable assumptions, his brain’s special form of self-harm, and back to the agonising discipline of just…being. Of guiding light and shadows over his form.

At first his attempts are more failure than success, and when he does succeed it feels more like chance than control. But the mental gymnastics gradually stop feeling so horribly clunky and unnatural, and after a few weeks Grantaire finds he can more easily reach the quiet, serene headspace that he needs. Towards the end of the second week of practice it starts to feel like he has more control over the impulses he’s shaping. The shadows start to move like graphite under his fingers and then, finally, Paris is chiaroscuro under his hands.

Once he’s confident he can render himself invisible, he moves on to the next stage of his plan.

There’s no moon in the sky on the night he decides to try it. He wraps himself in shadows and then strips out of his sweater, t-shirt, and binder—the minimum number of layers Grantaire ever wears in public—and lets his wings unfold under a vast, dark firmament.

They’ve healed completely from the damage done by the Institute. The feathers are glossy and whole—if more than a little ruffled from the near-constant binding—but the muscles are thin and wasted from years of disuse.

The rest of Grantaire’s family fly at least a few times a year, always in remote or rural areas and on nights with reduced visibility. Grantaire has always declined to join them. He doesn’t even know himself the exact reason why. He’s thought about it a little more recently, trying to unpick the tangled knot of fear and spite that has thus far resisted any kind of rational explanation, and he thinks he has some idea, now.

He doesn’t want to fly because he’s frightened to the point of phobia that he’ll fall. It’s not that he thinks he’d be in any particular danger of hitting the ground (he knows his family would catch him) but there’s something about the thought of trying and failing—of having his wings fail him—that is violently abhorrent to him. He still wakes up from nightmares where he’s plummeting through the air, his wings tattered scraps of feather and bone, unable to do anything to slow his own crashing descent. And then there’s the hot little core of fury, right in the corner of his soul, that Grantaire’s been holding onto for so very long. The last time Grantaire had flown it had been because Enjolras had pushed him off the top of a building in spite of Grantaire’s express lack of consent, and he still, more than half a decade later, doesn’t know how to get over that.

His family seem to appreciate the topic is a sensitive one, because no one—least of all Enjolras—has ever made more than the very lightest of suggestions that Grantaire should join them in their flights. It’s remained, through the years, an awkward and embarrassing subject that they all avoid by mutual unspoken consent, which is why he hasn’t told anyone his plan.

Grantaire has been reading online about rehab—specifically with regards to muscle atrophy—and he’s developed his own DIY physiotherapy plan to get his wings working again.

He starts, easy does it, with his feet firmly rooted on the solid cement of the roof. He lets the wind rustle through his pinions and secondary feathers, cold and shocking like ice cream on teeth. It’s a relief, but a painful kind of relief, stretching muscles that have gone unused for so long. Then he moves them in the sweeping arcs of ballet movements. Croise devant, a la seconde, epaule, ecarte. Over and over again, like he’s back in ballet class and Floreal is narrowing her eyes at his lazy wrist placement. He holds his wings in each position for as long as he can, before dropping into the next. By the time he’s done he’s covered in sweat and his wings are trembling with muscle fatigue, rustling like trees in a high wind.

It’s hard, but it’s nowhere near as hard as wrestling with his mind. It’s solid, satisfying, physical exertion, and he knows how to do that. He goes out the next night, and the next, until he can move through the positions with his wings as easily as he can with his arms.

Then, and only then, does he turn his eyes towards the sky.

&

When Grantaire walks to the very edge of the roof and looks down, he experiences a sudden, shocking surge of fear. He lingers, and the fear settles, but in its wake a strange sense of l'appel du vide washes gently over him.

I could jump so easily, and fall so far, thinks the part of him that’s fully, morbidly, human.

I could jump so easily, and fly forever into a safe, endless sky, thinks the part of him that is something else entirely.

Grantaire wrestles momentarily with these strange twin impulses, before deciding on a route somewhere in the middle. He steps off the roof in one quick movement, dropping into an exhilarating, wild freefall that quietens all the voices in his head and leaves behind a bright, flashing, neon exclamation mark. Then he swoops up into the rooftops of Paris, a smooth rushing climb that feels as inevitable as breathing in with empty lungs.

Above the roofs and into the colourful dusky clouds of reflected light from the city below, Grantaire climbs high above them, until he’s close enough to the stars to recognise their old, familiar shapes.

The world is small, he could hold it in his hand, and he loves it so much it hurts. Any troubles he has seem minuscule in scale when compared to Paris at night.

The city is wreathed in gold. Aureate garlands and chains of light, outshining all the jewellery ever forged. The star-like configuration of the roads around the Arc de Triomphe, the black fathomless lines of the Seine embroidered by the lights of the quais, the glowing expanse of Notre Dame, and Sacré-Cœur towering high and ethereal on its hill. They leave him breathless with wonder. Grantaire watches Paris all night, alighting on rooftops only when he needs to rest his wings, before taking off again to soar, cold and elated, over this—the most beautiful city in the world.

He flies until the first warm lightening of the horizon is visible, and the dawn clouds above Paris are lit through with pale pink and blue, and then he re-alights on his rooftop. He can’t stop smiling.

&





Whatsup mon Coeur,

so I’m about to blow your goddamn mind here, brace yourself. ready? 

did you know Nicolas Flamel was a real person?? and that he had a house??? that you can visit??? in Paris???? 

this really was not the part of the harry potter series that I thought would be, like, high in verisimilitude. 

the house is a restaurant now which to be honest I think is a bit of a wasted opportunity, marketing-wise. I would 100% have paid 30 euros to go look at some dumb replica Philosopher’s stone but I guess Paris hasn’t gone quite as balls-to-the wall-mad for harry potter gimmicks as London has.

anyway Joly and Bossuet found out and dragged us all there, obviously. the address is 51 rue de montmorency, if you’re curious. the food was posh as fuck but that’s paris for ya—they had veggie options though! always a real plus, the french aren’t into that kind of animal-friendly nonsense as a general rule. 

so our man flamel was chilling some time in the 14th century and apparently he was just… a book seller? but he had lots of money and was into some weird science so obviously people put two and two together and got magic money rock. 

i hope you’re all doing good and law school is… fun? educational? and I hope bahorel isn’t too much of a handful—i heard he fell asleep in your first exam of the year! maybe bring along some little rocks to throw at him next time?

love, 

R

p.s. I know you do but could you please remember to water my enjolras plant and make sure it gets some sun and also finds its chill occasionally? (also don’t tell him I told you to) 

many thnx brother mine xoxo

&

Grantaire hears nothing more from Mardisoir or Claquesous for another three weeks. Mardisoir doesn’t turn up for her usual six o’clock coffee, and every evening at that time Grantaire thinks about her, and wonders if Claquesous has found anything. He wonders idly who hired Claquesous to look for her, as he’d never seen Mardisoir with anybody. Her parents? Her friends? Who knows, maybe it was just a landlord she'd skipped out on. He hopes that she’s just moved—maybe a surprise job opportunity came up and she left with no ulterior motive, maybe a family member got sick. He also hopes that he never sees Claquesous again for as long as he lives.

This hope comes to its tragic demise one drizzly evening in mid September. Grantaire has a head cold and the will to live of a polar bear in a petting zoo (Enjolras’s eco-warrior phase will live in the back of Grantaire’s brain for the rest of his life, it feels like). He’s sent home from work early and his plan when he trudges into the living room of the Rue Hyacinth apartment, damp and miserable from the rain, is to down a cup of tea like a shot of tequila and sleep for twelve hours. Instead, there’s a tall man dressed all in black looking at the framed photo on the coffee table. Courfeyrac sent it last Christmas: a group photo from five years ago, of everyone on Christmas morning. Grantaire and Enjolras are a tangled bundle on the couch, both wrapped up in Joly’s novelty Doctor Who scarf; Grantaire is pressing their cheeks together and grinning. Grantaire has trouble looking at that photo even at the best of times, but seeing it in the hands of someone intruding in their flat—someone who could just as easily have been walked in on by Musichetta, Joly or Bossuet—makes icy, electric rage flood his body. His fingers go numb; the light overhead flickers.

It’s the light flicker that saves Claquesous’s life when Grantaire picks up the nearest object (a lamp with a heavy metal base) and hurls it at his head with deadly accuracy. He crosses the room at some point in the parabola of the throw—he doesn’t quite remember—and as Claquesous dodges to avoid the lamp, Grantaire meets him with a fist to his throat and a knee to his groin. Claquesous goes down immediately, rolling fast to avoid Grantaire’s follow-up kick to his face, but then he pops back up with the speed of a practiced fighter. This does nothing to quiet the blaring alarm in the back of Grantaire’s head that won’t stop shrieking THREAT THREAT THREAT THREAT at him.

Claquesous hits out, sharp and deadly in a way no one has been since Grantaire sparred with Montparnasse as a child, and Grantaire parries because hello, muscle memory. Grantaire takes advantage of Claquesous's half-moment of surprise to rush him, hurtling them both back onto the ground, and Grantaire goes through a coffee table for the second time in his life—why are violent assailants always such hell on the interior decor? He gets his fingers in the pressure points of Claquesous' neck, and a knee jammed in at his spleen. Claquesous’ sunglasses have fallen off, revealing narrowed grey eyes and an interesting knife-scar that skirts the edge of his eyelid.

"What.” Grantaire pants. "The blistering bleeding fuck. Do you want?”

Claquesous grimaces, and shifts in the puddle of broken glass. "I didn't come here to fight," he mutters reluctantly. "I just—"

"Came here to snoop around? Scare the shit out of my flatmates? Break a fuck ton of laws and also my furniture? This is a fucking rental! I have to pay for that table!“ Grantaire is furious. At himself, for not paying attention to his instincts where this creepy motherfucker is concerned, and most importantly, at the creepy motherfucker in question, who got through his multi-deadlocked door without breaking a sweat, what the fuck?

"I'm looking for Mardisoir,” Claquesous says through gritted teeth. “I’ve hit a complete dead end, and you—There's something really off about you, I know there is."

"Yeah, no shit, Miss Marple." Something tells Grantaire that Claquesous isn't a threat to his immediate life right at this moment. He stands up and brushes himself down, but doesn't offer Claquesous any assistance in getting to his feet. "But why the fuck would me being weird have anything to do with her disappearing?"

"You're kidding, right?" Claquesous says, staggering to his feet and clutching his ribs. “You’re ridiculously suspicious. Are you ex-army? Why are you working as a barista?”

"This is Paris!" Grantaire throws up his hands and pointedly ignores the direct question. "Everyone is suspicious! I think Parisians consider it some kind of cultural trait to be shifty motherfuckers."

Claquesous scowls. "Well you were being suspicious in the vicinity of where my friend disappeared, so suck it up."

Grantaire gapes at the sheer fucking balls on this guy, telling him to suck up aggravated B&E like it's a cold coffee order. Then his brain catches up with the conversation enough for him to say, "Wait, your friend? I thought you were a PI. Weren't you hired to find her?"

"I am a PI," Claquesous says, slowly, as if he thinks either Grantaire's French or baseline intelligence is incredibly lacking. "PI's can have friends. Mardisoir works with me; we own a PI business together." 

Grantaire whistles lowly through his teeth. "A PI going missing, huh? That's—"

Claquesous holds up a hand, and says with deep seriousness. "I have had a… very. Difficult few weeks. If you tell me how ironic this is, I will kill you, and I won't regret it."

Grantaire nods and shrugs. Fair enough

There's an awkward pause. Grantaire grasps for something to say. Claquesous shifts awkwardly in the broken glass.

"Would you like a cup of tea?" is what finally slips out of Grantaire's mouth, when the awkward silence reaches the point of making him seriously consider the window behind him as a point of egress.

Claqueous barks out a single surprised laugh, and pushes his sunglasses into his hair. He looks younger than Grantaire had previously thought—maybe late twenties, rather than thirties.

"Shit," he says. "Could you be more British?"

“They say it’s terminal.”

“Right.”

Later, Claquesous squints at him over his cup of espresso—black, strong, more like Bisto than any beverage that Grantaire has ever seen before—and asks: “So. How are your secretarial skills?”

&





Dear Cos, 

I’ve found the most disgruntled gargoyle in the world. 

you can’t tell anyone (okay you can tell Ponine but don’t tell anybody responsible) but I sometimes sit on top of Notre Dame like Quasimodo and survey my domain. 

look, I know what you’re going to say, but, in my defense—it’s really fucking cool. and I do it at night. and! people can’t see me from the ground! and even if they did it wouldn’t matter because I am but a humble winged gargoyle, gargoyling about, nothing to see here!

okay, I tried to do it for the sake of clear communication but I can’t actually maintain this lunatic facade any more. my disgruntled gargoyle… he isn’t actually a gargoyle. Le Stryge (that’s his name) is actually a grotesque because he doesn’t have a waterspout coming out of his mouth. of course this arguably means that I am also a grotesque (at least when I’m not spitting…) so we should keep that option in mind if we’re ever spitballing new nicknames for me. (hah, spitballing). 

no, as you can see from the postcard, Le Stryge is content to sit back, relax, and stick his tongue out at the world, which is something I really respect about him

here’s some more fun facts about notre dame, the prettiest lady in paris (apart from Chetta): 

for a while in 17 hundred whatever some atheists got ahold of it and called it the Temple of Reason (v Davinci Code) but then after a while the catholic church stole it back cause the catholic church are the best at stealing

people think the ironwork on the doors is cursed? and apparently when the church was first built the doors were STUCK (by the devil presumably) so they sprinkled it with some holy water and that fixed em!—under appreciated DIY technique? maybe so!

Le Stryge’s father (some dude named Eugene) loved himself so much he snuck THREE! statues of himself into the building. THREE! talk about self love. 

there are bees in the roof. found this one out by myself. 

(yes I did fall off the roof a little bit when they buzzed at me)(no, shh, it was fine)

anyway that’s all from me, the grotesque of notre dame. I hope baby doctoring is going well for you and the sick people aren’t too gross. 

love ya, 

R

&

Grantaire’s new job is in the 13th Arrondissement and he turns up late almost every morning, which is fine because so does his new boss. He mostly does secretarial work, which Claquesous and Mardisoir used to share before she disappeared into, apparently, thin air. Working in a PI office is nowhere near as glamorous as it sounds, and Grantaire quickly runs into several important flaws in his own character. He's disorganised as hell, for one. For another, he doesn't have a good memory for things his brain doesn't consider 'important'—namely, names, dates, and social niceties. He's good at pattern recognition and problem solving, but he already knew that from the Institute—the skill set that Claquesous is most interested in is his willingness to root through other people's trash and make espressos, which he tries not to let go to his head. When he's not destroying his shoes in dumpsters, he's trawling through pages and pages of social media trying to find out information about people's cheating partners and wayward children. It is—he learns—the bread and butter of the average PI business. Thankfully, he finds sifting through breadcrumb trails of online clues bizarrely satisfying, and often gets lost for hours in the slow, piecemeal process of connecting dots.

Claquesous’s energies appear to be solely focused on finding Mardisoir, and he’s let just about everything else—other cases, new clients, a normal sleep schedule and basic hygiene—fall by the wayside. This dire state of affairs is likely why Claquesous’ mind had been turning over potential career recruitment opportunities while Grantaire’s knee was still buried in his spleen. That, Grantaire assumes, and the creeping awareness that Grantaire could easily get him arrested for B&E. While Claqueous’ private detective agency seems to be mostly on the up-and-up, his friends—who wander in at all hours of the day and night looking like shifty feral cats—do not appear to abide by a strictly moral interpretation of the law, standard business hours, or, indeed, normal human social conventions.

There’s Fauntleroy, who’s a fluttery, knife-edged kind of alarming, with a sharp smile and effete manners. Brujon, a twitchy, fast-moving man with light fingers and a passion for stealing Grantaire’s coffee from under his nose. Depeche, a tall, pretty woman, who seems to be particular friends with Mardisoir, and who carries a machete in her Balenciaga purse. Guelemer, a thug whose one brain cell struggles valiantly with the push/pull door at the entrance to the business every time he calls. Glorieux, a rambling, twig-thin man, who seems to have more mandated court appearances than teeth. Bizarro, who has leaned into the concept of facial tattoos with a zeal Grantaire finds frankly alarming. And the less said about Babet the better.

This motley collection of criminals and thugs haunts Claquesous’ business on a semi-regular basis, drifting in and out as their variety of schemes and prison sentences allow. Grantaire never quite works out the intricacies of the network called Patron Minette, or how Claquesous fits into it, exactly, because Claquesous defies any attempt at interpretation or understanding.

Grantaire watches Claquesous carefully: up to his knees in trash wearing a grimace of distaste, spruced up in a suit jacket to meet clients, dressed in a leather jacket and jeans to meet friends—the only constants are the sunglasses and the single-minded obsession with finding Mardisoir. He works more hours than Grantaire can almost believe possible, eating and sleeping at his desk amid piles of paperwork, apparently sustained by nothing but rocket-fuel-strength coffee and his own razor-sharp instincts. He has a dry, dark humour, and is by turns scathing and amused by Grantaire’s blundering early attempts at PI work. He’s tightlipped about almost everything important and explains nothing unless he absolutely has to. He possesses a matter-of-fact decency that he clearly hates drawing attention to, but which nonetheless shows itself in the ten euro notes he gives to the people sleeping rough on their street, and the cinnamon lattes (an offence to Claquesous’ black espresso preferences) that he plunks onto Grantaire’s desk every morning without comment. He is, in summation, a person who Grantaire comes to like and respect very much, in spite of his ongoing bafflement vis a vis Claquesous’ everything. 

As autumn trickles on, and the last of the leaves drop from the trees and leave sludgey drifts along the boulevards, Grantaire starts to realise that he hasn’t been thinking about Enjolras—or his own failings, or the mess of his mental health or familial situation—much at all. He’s too busy. He goes to work early and stays late, often, especially if he’s on the trail of something interesting, or if Claquesous needs his help with a lead on Mardisoir. It’s not like at the coffee shop, where a full day’s work left him exhausted and drained—this work leaves him wired, wandering the banks of the Seine thinking about his day, animated with life and breathing the cooling air deeply.

Musichetta, Joly, and Bossuet lose the worried cast to their eyes. They go to restaurants for dinner together, spend weekends at the art galleries and nights at the theatre and in interesting little bars.

&





to the ferrest of them all, 

I went into a bookshop yesterday and I spent so long in there that they 100% sincerely offered to let me live there (because apparently I look... well, if not homeless then at least like a person who could comfortably live in a bookshop). 

the place is called Shakespeare and Company. it’s down on the river and I just popped in because I needed a new book

first off, the place is like a maze. it’s full of bric-a-brac, there’s old typewriters and notes pinned to the wall, curtains of fabric instead of doorways. I get the feeling it would usually be rammed with instagramming tourists but I went at like 10 o’clock in the morning so it was mostly just tired parents and their restless, roving broods...

anyway long story short I ended up doing dramatic readings of Sylvia Plath poetry to a group of children for half an hour. 

above the door they’ve painted “be kind to strangers lest they be angels in disguise” 

I kinda thought they meant it in a kind of... benevolent hallmark card kind of way. not like... there’s a spare bed in the back room if you want it, as long as you do a few shifts for us. but something about my rendition of Lady Lazarus prompted them to mention that they have a sofa couch available

I have to admit, if not for the unholy trinity I think I’d have been a bit tempted. apparently they have tea parties on sundays. 

obviously I thought of you, because I am 100% sure you would have said ‘fuck my promising career in science, imma live in this bookshop forever now’

anyway just wanted to let you know in case you wanted to jump start your career as a bohemian bookshop dweller—you should know that I would completely support this life choice

lots of love,

R

 &

It’s a rainy grey evening in early November when Mardisoir reappears as suddenly as she left. She clatters through the door of the office, backpack slung over her shoulder, and freezes when she sees Grantaire sitting there, mouth agape.

She points at him, her mouth a flat confused line. “Coffee guy!”

“Coffee guy,” Grantaire agrees. He notices that she is in fact carrying two takeaway coffee cups from Grantaire’s old workplace, which she places carefully on the desk. She sways ever so slightly on the spot, and it’s only then that Grantaire notices that her clothes are very much the worse for wear, her arm is in a cast, and she looks like she hasn’t slept in approximately four months.

“Sous!” Grantaire calls, and as Claquesous materialises in the front room of the office with superhuman speed, Mardisoir drops into a dead faint. Claquesous leaps forwards and catches her, lowering her carefully to the ground.

Grantaire picks up his phone to call an ambulance but Claqueous waves a hand at him without looking up, and instead pulls out his own phone. He has a sharp, short conversation with someone who picks up after one ring, and then shoves his phone back in his pocket to free his hands.

“Babet’s coming,” Claquesous says, lifting Mardisoir as if she weighs nothing and lying her gently down onto the mangey sofa they use for clients. Her fine dark hair fans out across one of the seat cushions and Grantaire can’t help but think that he, personally, would have preferred to stay on the floor.

Babet arrives terrifyingly quickly—”I was in the area”—clutching a black leather doctor’s bag that Grantaire finds uniquely threatening, and looking as jocular and alarming as he always does. He takes Mardisoir’s blood pressure and checks her pulse and her oxygen saturations. He even does an ECG, and runs his hands matter-of-factly down her limbs, and over the back of her head and behind her ears and neck.

“Nothing broken,” he murmurs to Claquesous. “No signs of head injury. It’s likely just exhaustion. Her blood pressure is low but there’s no indication of any bleeding or sepsis. Most likely she’s just dehydrated.”

He puts a cannula in her arm, and Grantaire looks away, feeling nauseous.

“Not a fan of blood?” asks Claquesous, with the ghost of humour drifting around his mouth.

“Hospital stuff,” mutters Grantaire, leaning against the reception desk. “Needles and—” he waves his hand vaguely, “all that shit.”

“Well, don’t faint,” Claquesous says briskly. “Can’t get the staff nowadays, eh, Babet?”

“A 66% unconsciousness rate in your employees is probably higher than the union average,” Babet agrees, taking a syringe of blood from the back of the cannula—much to Grantaire’s horror—before connecting the line to a bag of fluids, which he proceeds to squeeze.

Grantaire swallows around the salty sensation in his mouth.

It takes a few more minutes before Mardisoir comes round. Babet pinches the flesh of her deltoid hard—to assess her consciousness level, he says—and she comes up swinging.

“Conscious enough for you?” Claquesous drawls, from where he’s leaning against the wall.

Some twenty minutes later Babet, nursing a still-bleeding nose, eventually pronounces her fit and well—if in need of a good night's sleep—and leaves muttering about how in America he could be a millionaire.

Mardisoir and Claquesous share a communicative glance, in which all kinds of explanations and assurances seem to pass, and seem to come to a mutually unspoken conclusion that everything that needs to be said out loud can be discussed tomorrow. Mardisoir flops backwards onto the sofa and falls almost immediately into a deep sleep.

Claquesous materialises a sleeping bag from somewhere and tucks it around her. The top corner of the fabric flops against her cheek, and Claquesous folds it down gently, brushing her jaw absently with the back of his hand. It’s the single softest gesture Grantaire has ever seen from Claquesous, and completely at odds with his expressionless face. 

Grantaire stands up and slings his messenger bag over his shoulder. 

“Do you need me to do anything?” he asks.

Claquesous shakes his head and glances away from Mardisoir towards Grantaire. “No,” he says. “But. You can take the day off tomorrow.”

“You sure?” Grantaire asks.

“Yeah,” says Claquesous, sitting back in Grantaire’s abandoned desk chair and appearing to settle in for the night. He slides the smaller of the two takeaway cups towards himself and takes a deep sip. As Grantaire closes the door behind him he catches one last glimpse of Claquesous’ impassive face, his long fingers playing with the paper coffee cup sleeve, his eyes soft on Mardisoir’s sleeping form, and Grantaire smiles, wide and jubilant, and heads for home.

&





To the littlest of brothers, 

Gav, my dear sweet Lilliputian protege, i received your latest dispatch and read with interest your appeal to my brotherly instincts. unfortunately I must regretfully decline your offer to move to Paris and live under my bed—that is, sadly, where my abandoned sock colony lives. it’s a very delicate ecosystem and I have no doubt that the introduction of a large prey animal such as yourself would cause habitat destruction verging on ecocide, which is something I cannot condone. also, ya aint slick kid, I know you’ve got exams coming up. 

in answer to your other question: yes, I’m now working at a private detective agency, and yes it is very cool. how many times have you been inside someone’s rubbish bin in the last week? i bet less than five—you gotta get on my level Gav. 

it must be pretty boring rocketing around that house by yourself huh? I’m sorry the others cruelly abandoned you to the fate of Dadvert’s undivided attention—haven’t they heard of ‘leave no man behind’? oh how quickly they forget. i can’t give you much advice on that front, I’m afraid, as the forerunner of the Run Away From Home artistic movement I’m pro strategic residential retreat. but tragically, my little cabbage, I don’t think your pocket money will stretch for the London real estate market. 

gimme a call if you fancy a few hours of diversion from studying. 

love u to the moon and back, 

R

p.s. you didn’t hear it from me but if you want to distract Javert’s attention from your academic trajectory a few flammable indoor science experiments are always good for a laugh 

p.p.s apparently this big elephant guy used to stand in the place de la bastille—I think that’s where the July column is now. anyway initially the security guard lived in one of his legs but then people kinda forgot about him. over time he basically became a ruin and a rat colony and he probably didn’t look anywhere near as grand as this one does. bet he still looked pretty fuckin cool tho, right?

&1


Grantaire doesn’t hear Mardisoir’s story until a few days later, when he finds himself in a grungy bar with her, Claquesous, Fauntleroy, Depeche and Brujon. Brujon and Fauntleroy are playing pool, and Brujon is winning in spite of Fauntleroy’s blatant and enthusiastic disregard for the rules.

Mardisoir explains that, about six months ago, an older couple had approached the agency, looking for help finding their daughter.

“They’d lost track of her more than ten years ago, so to be honest I didn’t think there was much hope for picking up the trail. I told them as much but they were adamant—they’d heard that she’d been pregnant, way back when, and they wanted to try to make amends. I think they thought they might have a grandchild they didn’t know about. We see it quite a lot, don’t we?” Mardisoir directs this at Claquesous who dutifully nods. She continues, “People kind of assume that when they fall out of contact, the other person stops living their life. Then when they find out something like, I don’t know, ‘maybe I have a thirteen year old grandchild I’ve never met,’ it reminds them that no one’s around forever, and they have to seize their chances while they have them.

“Anyway it was a pretty run of the mill case. Kind of nice in a way, even. I mean, if you find out someone’s cheating on their wife, then the only happy ending is a divorce, but with these cases there’s always the possibility that you’ll make somebody’s life better.”

Depeche grins into her white wine. “You’re a sap, Didi.”

Mardisoir rolls her eyes. “Listen, I’d had a long few months of infidelity, okay?”

They all laugh and Mardisoir takes another sip of her beer before continuing. 

“I actually found a trail. I really didn’t think I would, but her landlord had kept good records and they were still all there, filed away in his basement. I found out that she was definitely in Paris fourteen years ago, and that she was working in the sex industry, and that one day she just…disappeared.”

Depeche grimaces and makes a soft, sad noise. “Ah, that’s horrible. Although…Not exactly an unexpected turn of events?”

Mardisoir shakes her head grimly. “No, not unexpected. And you know what else wasn’t unexpected? The name Jondrette.”

Depeche sits up straighter in her chair, and even Claquesous reacts, sliding his eyes from the tabletop to Mardisoir’s face.

Something tickles at the back of Grantaire’s mind, like a fly landing on his arm. Jondrette—has he heard that name before?

“Them again?” Depeche says, with a slight baring of her teeth.

“Exactly. How many missing persons cases have they cropped up in over the years, Sous?”

“I think the technical term is a fuckton,” drawls Claquesous.

“Specifically cases with vulnerable women, and specifically pregnant women,” Mardisoir tells Grantaire. “And always women who disappeared without a trace. I mean, there being no leads in the case I was working on was pretty unsurprising—it all happened a long time ago. But I’ve followed cases three months dry before and they always feel the same. There’s always a Marie Celeste vibe to the places they’ve left, for one thing—they leave family photos, phones, cash, letters: you know, the stuff people generally make sure to hang on to. The people closest to them—and there usually aren’t many—have no idea where they’ve gone, and can’t get in touch with them. Their bank accounts are left untouched, and they don’t turn up in any hospitals or morgues. Basically, the shells of their entire lives are left behind. It’s like a giant hand just reached out of the sky and—” Mardisoir pinches her fingers into the air, “—plucked them away. It would be enough for the police to suspect foul play if it involved, you know, an innocent member of the general public, but these are always women without a support net. They’re often functionally homeless, they’re almost always in the sex industry, and they usually work and live adjacent to criminals. The police are more than happy to put their disappearances down to personal fault—they say either the women got into trouble with the wrong person, or she skipped town to avoid rent, or an ex. They don’t look too hard, they see what they expect to see. And the loved ones of these women end up coming to us for some kind of closure.”

“And the Jondrettes?” Grantaire asks.

“Nine times out of ten?” Mardisoir says. “In cases that feel…weird, like that? The name Jondrette crops up. Never anything damning in and of itself—sometimes it’s that they run in the same circles. Sometimes a friend of the missing woman remembers the name vaguely. The Jondrettes own lots of property in Paris—slums, mostly—and at least five of the cases I’ve looked into have involved women who lived in one of their apartments.”

“They’re the boogeymen of the Parisian sex industry,” Depeche tells Grantaire. “Any sex worker who’s been around for a while has heard the rumours. Don’t work with the Jondrettes. Don’t even go near the Jondrettes. If the Jondrettes approach you with work, run.”

“It’s just...commonly acknowledged that they kidnap people?” Grantaire asks, stunned.

Depeche shrugs. “Not so much. They are truly awful people, from what I’ve heard. Even if they weren’t linked to this particular pattern, I still think it’d be a generally good idea to avoid them. But there is…an undercurrent to the rumours. A suggestion that it’s worse than the normal stuff. I’ve only ever heard third hand warnings, though, and never anything specific.”

“That’s why most of the women who go missing in connection to them are new to sex work and to Paris,” says Mardisoir. “It makes them even more vulnerable.”

“Surely the police would be interested in a common denominator that strong,” says Grantaire.

“You would think so, wouldn’t you?” mutters Mardisoir bitterly.

“Makes you wonder if the police are in on it,” says Depeche, raising an eyebrow.

Mardisoir flicks her fingernail off of her glass in an agitated manner, contemplating it in moody silence before bursting out, “I was just so sick of it! This old couple, they just wanted their daughter back, and I was going to have to tell them that they were too late because this city eats poor women alive? Like all those people I’ve had to say to before, ‘My condolences. We’ll never know what happened but it’s unlikely she’ll ever come back to you.’ Because why? Because she was alone and vulnerable and no one gave a shit? Because no one cared? Because the monsters found her before anyone decent did? Fuck that! Fuck it!”

She hasn’t raised her voice much above the clamour of the bar, but Fauntleroy and Brujon glance over and raise their eyebrows. Mardisoir notices, takes a deep steadying breath, and drains the rest of her beer.

“I knew Sous wouldn’t want me digging around the Jondrettes,” she continues more quietly. “But I thought that if I could get some kind of evidence that linked them to these cases, definitively, then I could go to the police with it. Then maybe a few less people’s lives would end in misery, huh? And wouldn’t that be something.”

Claquesous’ lips thin and he gazes off across the bar, which for Claquesous is practically storming-off levels of non-verbal expression. Grantaire wonders if he and Mardisoir have agreed to disagree on this particular issue, or if Claquesous is withholding his thoughts for the sake of diplomacy and Mardisoir’s broken arm.

“You’ve been very quiet, Sous,” grins Depeche, obviously noting the same. “There’s not much love lost between you and the law. You on board with this going to the police plan?”

Claquesous scowls. “Theft and sex trafficking are not equatable crimes. I think the Jondrettes should be hanged, frankly, but the French criminal justice system is too merciful for that.”

“You think they’re sex trafficking?” Grantaire asks.

Claquesous shrugs. “What else?”

“So what happened?” Depeche asks Mardisoir, her dark eyes full of fierce concern. “Did the Jondrettes come after you?”

Mardisoir shakes her head slowly. “No. Not the Jondrettes. I could have probably handled their thugs. It was these… faceless government types. They just appeared in my apartment at four in the morning. They were very calm, very professional. They had handcuffs and tasers. I tried to fight and ended up getting my arm broken, so I stopped fighting back pretty quick. They loaded me into the back of their van—it was like a riot van or something, I don’t really know what they expected me to do in there, it was real overkill. And it was all so official, so orderly.”

“Did they identify themselves?” Depeche asks with narrowed eyes.

“They said they were from the Directorate-General for Internal Security,” says Mardisoir, with a scathing expression. “They even had little badges. I told them I have a laminator too, they weren’t special.”

Depeche laughs and Claquesous makes a minute expression of exasperation with the space between his eyebrows.

“I think they probably were official, at least on some level,” Mardisoir says. “They had me in a holding facility for a couple of months, right? And they had plenty of staff, even though I didn’t see any other prisoners—that kind of thing takes funding. The staff weren’t all French either, there were some Brits too, and some Americans. I tried to do a hunger strike but they put a tube down my nose and that was…horrible, so I didn’t do it again. I didn’t sleep much cause the light was always on. I got the feeling they didn’t know what to do with me, to be honest. Then, eventually, they took me out and asked me lots of questions about my business partner—what I’d told him, what he was doing. I figured Sous was probably digging around, unleashing merry hell, so I told them he knew everything, that he’d have made sure our entire organisation knew everything, and that he wouldn’t stop until he found me. That seemed to stump them. A week later they loaded me back into the van and dropped me off on the corner of my street.”

“They didn’t say anything that hinted at what agency they belonged to?” Depeche asks. “No uniforms or…logos, or whatever?”

Mardisoir shakes her head and grins. “No, they weren’t big on their branding, shockingly. And I never heard anything useful at all—it was very disappointing. Movies told me I’d hear at least one important conversation outside my cell, but alas. Other than telling me to eat and drink I don’t think I had one conversation the entire time I was there, it was very boring.”

“Do you know where you were?” Depeche asks, brow creased with alarm. “Were you still in Paris?”

Mardisoir nods. “It was only about two hours from my apartment, I think. I remember, I was trying to pay attention to what the men driving the van were saying. But they didn’t do anything useful like read out directions. All they said was, ‘Is she for the Institute?’, and the other one said, ‘I don’t think so, I think she’s just been causing trouble.’”

Grantaire’s body goes into immediate catastrophic meltdown, Chernobyl-style. He’s standing, without being aware of moving from sitting. He can feel his heart hammering in every line of his body, his lips and fingers are completely numb, he’s sweating and ice cold and there’s a ringing noise lodged somewhere high and persistent in his ears. He feels like he’s going to die.

“What did you say?” he croaks, blinking away the dark sparkles at the very edges of his vision. “Did you say the Institute?”

Claquesous’ gaze is sharp on him but Grantaire only has eyes for Mardisoir. Her lips are parted in surprise and she reaches out a hand to steady him, but Grantaire sways away from it.

“You’re having a panic attack, hun,” says Depeche matter-of-factly. “You should sit down.”

Grantaire shakes his head, not in denial, but because the room is spinning, left and down away from him, and he can’t hear them at all over the high-pitched dial-up whine in his ears.

Somebody grabs the back of his neck like he’s a kitten and he tries to lash out, but they slam him back down into his seat and thrust his head between his knees.

Grantaire struggles weakly but Claquesous holds him steady and says, “Breathe,” in such a flat, commanding tone that Grantaire does as he’s told without question.

After five minutes of breathing on command Grantaire feels some of his composure return to him, along with his vision, hearing, and ability to reliably oxygenate his lungs. Claquesous seems to agree with him re: his respiratory function, because he lets go and sits back down in his seat, watching Grantaire with narrowed eyes. Grantaire props his elbows on the table and drops his face into his hands.

“Sorry,” he mutters.

“Don’t be stupid,” says Mardisoir.

He feels Claquesous get up from the table, and then a few minutes later sit back down again, sliding a glass of water to Grantaire as he does.

Grantaire obeys the unspoken command and gulps it down.

There’s a few more moments of awkward silence, in which Depeche sips her wine composedly and looks politely around the bar, and Mardisoir and Claquesous stare at him. Mardisoir looks concerned to the point of alarm. Claquesous looks as neutral as ever, but Grantaire is aware of the sharpness of his attention.

“Do you want to explain to us what all that was about?” Claquesous asks levelly.

“Not really,” says Grantaire. His mind is starting to work again, juddering into gear. Is this Institute the same as their Institute? Is it in France now? And what do the Jondrettes have to do with it? It’s possible the name of the facility is a coincidence but the pattern of disappearing women has flipped like an optical illusion in his mind and Grantaire remembers the story of Cosette’s mother, lost and alone and friendless—all except for her employer, Valjean, who had stepped in to help when most people wouldn’t have bothered. Valjean had said that Fantine had vanished into thin air. And weren’t most of their mothers supposedly from France?

Grantaire looks at Mardisoir. She’s looking straight back, her eyes wide. He doesn’t want to give anything away, but he needs to know.

“Did they mention Waterloo?” he asks. He knows he’s probably not concealing his terror very well. “The Waterloo Institute?”

Grantaire sees surprise wash over Mardisoir like a wave, and he knows the answer to his question before she even opens her mouth.

“Yes,” she says. “I thought it was… Well, I didn’t pay attention to it, honestly. I thought it was a generic code word. There’s Napoleonic references everywhere in Paris. Does that…mean something? To you?”

Depeche, Mardisoir and Claquesous are staring at him.

Grantaire has no idea what to do.

“I can’t talk about it,” he says desperately. “I’m sorry. I—I can’t be involved in this.” He shakes his head. “I can’t be anywhere near this, actually. And if you had any sense, you’d stay away from it too.”

“This is much bigger than a few missing person’s cases, isn’t it?” says Claquesous, watching him carefully.

Grantaire nods his head. This isn’t news to them, he reasons, he’s not giving anything away—Mardisoir was imprisoned for two months just for digging a little too deep. It’s quite evidently big.

“Do you know something?” Mardisoir asks, leaning forwards in her chair. “Something that could help?”

“I know that there’s nothing I can say or do that will help you with this,” says Grantaire carefully. “I’m sorry, I am. But if they find me—” He breaks off but he knows the damage is done. Even Claquesous is moved to raise an eyebrow.

“There are women missing,” says Mardisoir, with a touch of disbelief. “People’s lives are being destroyed. If you know something—”

“I don’t know anything that will help you,” snaps Grantaire. “The only thing I know is that this whole thing is way too big for a—a PI agency to take down. Half of this outfit is criminal! Why do you think the police would even take you seriously, let alone protect you from the fallout? How do you know the police aren’t in on it? I’m not willing to risk my family for the sake of your suicide mission.”

Mardisoir sucks in a breath to start arguing with him, but Claquesous quietens the table with a gesture.

He stares at Grantaire, and Grantaire is forcefully reminded of the time Claquesous appeared in the cafe. Just as then, Grantaire feels over-exposed and horribly seen.

“Are these people dangerous?” Claquesous asks him flatly.

For a second Grantaire can’t quite wrap his head around the question. Are they dangerous? They’re The Danger.

“Yes,” he says finally, deathly serious. “Yes. They’ll completely destroy you, Claquesous. They go so far up. Nobody stands a chance.”

Claquesous nods slowly, and his eyes move to Mardisoir.

She seems to know what he’s about to say before he says it, and opens her mouth to protest.

“We won’t dig any deeper with these people—” Claquesous says.

“Sous!” exclaims Mardisoir furiously.

“We’ll let it drop,” he continues, without acknowledging her protest. “We won’t invite any more attention from them. We’ll continue to investigate missing person’s cases—it's a big source of our revenue, we don’t have any other choice—but if it seems like there’s any hint of the Jondrettes being involved, then we’ll back off. That’s what they wanted, by kidnapping you. They wanted to frighten us off.”

“I’m not frightened of them—” starts Mardisoir.

Claquesous slams his hand down onto the table, hard. Grantaire just about leaps out of his skin but Mardisoir doesn’t flinch. She stares Claquesous down.

“Two months I looked for you, Mardisoir,” says Claquesous, voice filled with a quiet, singular intensity. “And not a single trace. I scoured every corner of Paris, called in every contact I possess… I didn’t sleep, I didn’t eat. I broke into the house of your fucking barista because he seemed sketchy and then I hired him as an assistant, because I was an inch away from losing the business.” His mouth thins. “They might not frighten you, but they frighten me.”

Mardisoir doesn’t argue, and Claquesous looks back at Grantaire. “We won’t go after this Institute. And you don’t have to tell us anything. Everyone at this table has their own history. We’re certainly not entitled to yours.”

&

Grantaire’s mental health takes a battering in the weeks following the reappearance of the Institute in his life. He plays the conversation with Claquesous, Mardisoir and Depeche back in his mind, winding it round and round and tying himself up in knots with it. He’s tormented by the fact that he’s essentially said—straight to the faces of people he likes and respects, and without any kind of explanation—fuck protecting exploited, kidnapped and potentially murdered women, my family is more important. At the same time he’s terrified that they’ll go back on their word, and draw attention to the existence of Grantaire and the Rue Hyacinth apartment.

Mardisoir goes some way to assuaging this concern. She catches up with Grantaire soon after their discussion at the bar, and it seems like maybe Claquesous has talked her round to his way of thinking, or maybe she’d just needed some time to cool off. Regardless, she assures Grantaire that they aren’t going to go after the Institute, that she respects that he’d rather not speak about his past, and that if he ever needs help, he knows where she and Claquesous are. There’s something about the way she reels this statement out, measured and rehearsed, that makes him wonder if Mardisoir goes to therapy too. He appreciates the reassurance, anyway, even though it does little to quiet the worst of the psychological blowback from the Institute’s reappearance.

The worst part is the sensation of being watched. It’s been so long since Grantaire has lived under the shadow of that alertness, but it all comes screaming back to him: the paranoia, the insomnia, the way his brain notices useless, nonexistent patterns and flags them as a source of fear, like a child seeing monster faces in wooden floorboards. The third time he sees a black Renault Clio in the space of a week he freezes, stock still in the middle of the street, and it takes a good five minutes of talking himself down before he can convince himself that every fucking bastard in Paris owns a Clio, that he is not being followed, and that the harassed mother of three in the driver’s seat certainly does not look particularly interested in kidnapping and experimenting on him.

He speaks to Dahlia about it a little, but she asks him if anything in particular has prompted this flare up, and he doesn’t want to lie to her. He feels bad enough about lying by omission to his family—though admittedly not bad enough to tell them. He just…doesn’t think it would help. It’s not new information, after all: they all assume that the Institute is still out there in one form or another. And Paris is a big city; he doesn’t really think they’re at any more risk here than they were in London. He contemplates telling them and his brain jumps like a skipped record with thoughts of how anxious it would make Joly, how grim it would make Musichetta, and how wordless it would make Bossuet. He knows Javert and Valjean would demand they come home. If they didn’t, Enjolras would be on the first train across the Channel, the same way Grantaire would head straight back to London if he heard that someone Enjolras worked with at Pret had been kidnapped by the embodiment of their worst nightmares—there’s such a thing as too close for comfort.

He considers quitting his job but on balance discards that move as reactive and strategically nonsensical. He has a job with people who are actively keeping an eye on the Institute—surely it’d be madness to throw away luck like that? And besides… He likes his job. He knows that doesn’t carry much weight as an argument, but—it’s something he loves, that he gets paid to do. He doesn’t like the idea of throwing that away. 

A little voice in his head that sounds annoyingly like Dahlia makes noises about how Grantaire keeping secrets to protect his family hasn’t always worked out so well for him in the past. Grantaire’s had time to reflect on all that went wrong in their escape from the Institute and nowadays he can admit to his own part in that disaster. His family, without knowing what Grantaire knew, and in the absence of any helpful input from him, had made their own plans to escape. At the time he’d been furious with Enjolras for refusing to blindly trust in Grantaire’s judgement but in retrospect… If all Grantaire ever offered was negativity and doubt, why would Enjolras trust that his reasons were logical, and not clouded by the kind of pessimism that was prone to assert that not only was the glass half empty, but that it was also full of poison?

In the end, he decides to wait. If anything new comes up about the Institute, he’ll tell the others and they can amscray the fuck out of there, no harm, no foul. Until then, he has plenty to keep him busy.

&





Dear Enjolras,

How are you? I hope you’re good. Congratulations again on passing your exams—no one ever thought you’d do anything but ace them but I’m glad all that hard work paid off.

I walked past a strange little clock on Rue Bernard de Clairvaux today, and it was so odd that I looked it up when I got home. It’s called The Defender of Time and it’s got a little golden man surrounded by a golden dragon, rooster and crab (apparently to symbolise the sky, the ground, and the sea). Every hour he fights one of the creatures off, and three times a day he fights them all. For as long as he was able to fight all the animals, time kept moving onwards, but the clock’s apparently been broken for a while now—although there’s a campaign to get it fixed online

I’m not sure why I’m telling you all this.

Things are going okay with me. I’ve got a new job. I started boxing again, so I’m getting semi-regularly punched in the face and you know how that thrills me. 

Hope you’re okay.

All my love,

R

&

The Institute doesn’t come up again, and slowly, by dreadful, minuscule increments, Grantaire unwinds.

The months push on through winter, and Christmas comes again, happier and brighter than before. They Skype with the rest of the family on Christmas morning. The Rue Hyacinth household curls up on the couch together quite comfortably, drinking mulled wine and eating cheese while the individuals of the London household engage in a violent turf war to assert their position on the screen by any means possible. Bahorel sticks his tongue in Courfeyrac’s ear and Courfeyrac shrieks so loudly the speakers howl in Paris, and Grantaire’s paper crown slips over his eyes when he throws his head back and laughs.

One bright winter morning in February, on a Saturday that all four of them have off work, they get on a train and head to Versailles. There’s still frost on the ground, and the pale sky blurs pink with the start of spring. They’re all wearing knitted hats, courtesy of Joly, along with winter coats and boots. The cold air in Grantaire’s lungs makes him feel strangely tremulous, brimming with a nameless, soft emotion. They wander along past the partially-frozen grand canal and down the broad paths of the gardens. It’s incredibly quiet and still—February mornings aren’t peak tourist times in Versailles—and occasionally there’s a frantic beat of wings as some startled bird takes off into the air. The imposing front of the Palace is warm sandstone, but the rows of long black windows give it a distant, removed veneer. In the hush Grantaire feels an almost vertiginous sense of history, a sense of how this palace must have looked two hundred years ago, and two hundred years before that. He scuffs his toes in the frozen gravel and marvels at how thin the line can be between the past and present. It feels, that morning, as if they’re walking in the footsteps of ghosts.

Musichetta sidles up to him and links her arm through his own. He squeezes her arm with his and smiles at her, and she smiles back.

“You know,” she says, “I’m so happy we came here.” She looks mildly embarrassed, as she always does at the premise of genuine sentiment.

Grantaire grins at her. “To Versailles? You gonna ascend to your rightful place as queen? I’m down for reinstating the monarchy if you are… We’ll just have to never tell Enjolras, obviously.”

She rolls her eyes and elbows him gently in his liver. “To Paris. I’m glad we moved here. You look… Happy.”

Grantaire runs his free hand through his hair and contemplates the imposing front of the palace.

Happy. He turns the word over in his mind. His first instinct—because some habits die real hard—is to immediately refute the accusation. After all, doesn’t the Institute still hang over his head like an ever-present goddamn sword of Damocles? Isn’t waking up on Monday mornings still worse than most things in the world? Didn’t Joly eat Grantaire’s last chocolate eclair this morning, without an ounce of regret? But, on the flip side, he likes his work now, even if it does involve a lot more garbage-trawling than he’d ever envisioned in his career. For the past week he’s been obsessed with reading the works of Albert Camus, and he’s looking forward to finishing The Plague on the train home. Last night, they’d watched the season finale of Parks and Recreation (again) and Bossuet had cried the whole way through (again). 

And Paris! Paris he loves with a fervency that consistently takes his breath away. London is home, but Paris is life. He flies above Paris and everything in the world seems within his bare-handed grasp.

Those are good things; his life is full of good things.

“I guess I am pretty happy,” he admits with a rueful grin.

Musichetta slants her eyes at him, smiling sadly. “Do you actually remember much of what you were like, before?”

Grantaire’s memories of their first year in Paris (and, if he’s honest with himself, his last few years in London) are, mercifully, almost entirely lost in the fog banks of his brain. He thinks that memory probably has a tendency to be unreliable when it comes to pain. Otherwise, logically, no one would ever give birth more than once.

“I mean,” he says, trying for lightness. “I know I wasn’t great company?”

Musichetta snort-laughs. “Strangely,” she says, with pointed sarcasm, “I wasn’t too concerned about what kind of company you provided. I was more worried about leaving you in rooms with sharp objects.”

“Ah, come on now,” Grantaire says. “I couldn’t very well off myself, could I? Enjolras would hunt my ghost for sport. He’d resurrect me just to kill me again. God, can you imagine the screaming fights he could have with the Ouija board? Actually, I’d pay to see that. Can you imagine me having to wrestle the fucking planchette out of his hands just to say ‘hello’?”

Musichetta barks out a horrified laugh, and shoves Grantaire off the path and onto the icy grass. Grantaire laughs and hams it up, pretending to stagger and nearly fall, before swerving back towards her, linking their arms again.

“I don’t want to talk about your belligerent little bastard of a ghost causing problems on purpose,” she says. Her glance is complicated—it’s not horribly serious, she knows how he hates that, but there’s a kind of sorrow around her mouth that makes Grantaire pause.

“I’m sorry,” he says, smiling ruefully and aware that he’s apologising for much more than his horrible sense of humour.

Musichetta frowns and shakes her head. “Don’t be sorry,” she says with forced lightness. “I just… We really thought we lost you for a minute there. I’m glad you found your way back to us.”

Grantaire swallows hard around the lump in his throat.

Musichetta slows to a stop and looks at him; her eyes are suspiciously glassy. “I’m so proud of you, you know,” she says, blinking quickly. “Thank you for fighting for us. Thank you for letting us stay.”

“Chetta—” A couple of stupid tears tip down Grantaire’s cheeks and he sniffs. “Oh for fuck’s sake—”

Musichetta laughs around a sob.

“Chetta, you kept me alive. Thank you! For everything! For putting up with me. For not letting me try and do it alone.”

“You’re never going to be alone, Grantaire,” Musichetta says, shaking her head, her voice firm even through her tears. “Never. We’ll never let that happen.” She sniffs and laughs, “So you better make your peace with that. You come as part of a set.”

“Like a soup spoon!” exclaims Grantaire triumphantly.

“Mhmm,” Musichetta agrees. “You try buying a soup spoon by itself.”

“It can’t be done,” Grantaire agrees.

“I’m not sold on soup spoon for you, though,” she muses.

“Joly!” Grantaire shouts, and fifty metres along the path in front of them Bossuet and Joly turn around. “What kind of cutlery am I?”

“Cheese knife!” Joly shouts back with an immediacy and confidence that is, frankly, unsettling.

Grantaire pivots towards a laughing Musichetta, completely bewildered. “Had he already thought about it, or…?”

“He’s right though,” Musichetta points out. “It’s got the little curly bit at the end.”

“It’s got the little curly bit at the end!” Joly hollers back at him, causing multiple ducks to take flight from the neighbouring grass.

“What does that even mean?” Grantaire shouts back. “What’s my curly bit? Joly!!”


 


Ahead, Joly and Bossuet crack up into hysterical laughter and ignore him, heading off down the path.

Musichetta and Grantaire grin at each other.

“You really should work on that one brain cell thing you have going on with those two,” Grantaire says.

“Hey,” says Musichetta. “As long as I’m the one with the brain cell, right?”

Grantaire snorts and together they walk on further, down the length of the grand canal.

Now that the monstrous leviathan of Grantaire’s guilt and self-hatred is, if not conquered, then at least reined in a little, he can appreciate the colossal magnitude of his privilege with regards to his family. In the past his love for them—and theirs for him—had felt suffocating, as if it was a twisted web of ropes that he couldn’t get free from, no matter how much he writhed and clawed. Now, from the vantage of hindsight, he realises that he’d just gotten tangled in his safety net and, like a dumb feral cat, had tried (thankfully unsuccessfully) to bite his way out and into the void. Grantaire’s always known that he wouldn’t be alive without his family, but as a person who hadn’t had much attachment to life to begin with, he’d never felt particularly grateful for their contribution in that respect. Now that his life has more variety in it than endless psychic anguish, he thinks some thank yous are probably in order.

There’s something sacred about unconditional love. Grantaire’s family love him, and they will never stop loving him, and Grantaire—cynic and skeptic and nonbeliever til the last—will never not believe that. Grantaire will never fall and wonder in the drop if anyone will catch him, because his family will, always. It’s a love that’s more fact than feeling, more constant than emotion—invisible and ever-present as the stars in the daytime. It’s certainty; it’s faith. It’s a privilege, and it’s a responsibility too, because Grantaire can’t tear chunks out of himself without hurting them. And it’s about time he started acting like the kind of brother they deserve.

They’ve come up on the Grand Trianon, and are wandering through arches that show the bright piercing sky beyond.

“You know,” says Musichetta, “Courfeyrac texted me last week.”

Grantaire glances at her, aware that there must be some kind of subtext lurking underneath this apparently mundane statement.

They all keep in touch, obviously. It’s the age of social media: they like and comment on each other’s Instagram photos, they forward interesting news articles, stupid memes, the esoterica of their different and varied lives. It’s not constant, not like it was when they were in high school, when one ballet class was all that it took for Grantaire to miss upwards of three hundred notifications—consistently 99% nonsense, 1% salient information—but it’s a comforting stream of awareness. There’s a main group chat, with everybody, which is mostly filled with exam stress and Easter holiday plans and what people are having for dinner, and there’s a slightly smaller group chat which Gavroche and the adults aren’t part of, which features more photos of Bahorel sleeping in his boxers on Eponine’s front step with the attached message, ‘for sale.’ There’s also a Category Five chat which features Feuilly complaining about Bahorel breaking his favourite mug, Bahorel complaining about Eponine posting photos of him, and Eponine complaining about Bahorel leaving ball sweat on her sofa. Occasionally Jehan forwards obscure fragments of spoken word poetry, which adds a touch of class to the whole surrealist shit show. 

From these updates Grantaire has gathered that in the past year most everybody has moved out of Valjean’s house. Enjolras, Combeferre and Courfeyrac are sharing a flat closer to campus. Cosette, Eponine and Marius have moved into some swanky place that Marius’s grandfather bought in aid of his London real-estate portfolio. Bahorel and Feuilly apparently maintain an only vaguely habitable basement flat. And Jehan has his own tiny studio, which—he is adamant—only he owns a key to. Grantaire has huge respect for Jehan’s ongoing attempts to forge independence in spite of his lifetime membership card to what has to be the most codependent group of people living in the Greater London area.

So, to a greater or lesser extent, Grantaire is in touch with almost all his family. Courfeyrac and Eponine check in the most frequently—Courfeyrac because he’s just like that, and Eponine because, as she is fond of reminding Grantaire, he abandoned her to a family of lunatics, and he is her one lifeline to sanity. Apart from the postcard, he hasn’t exchanged so much as a word with Enjolras in months. The last, he thinks, was when Enjolras passed his end of year exams with distinction and Grantaire wished him a stilted and too-formal congratulations via text. He can’t even keep a long-distance eye on Enjolras’s activities via social media because Enjolras has feelings about internet privacy, and after Cambridge Analytica broke he reduced his own online presence down to email and LinkedIn. Honestly, given that Grantaire spends most of his time these days combing through people’s poorly secured online lives, this is probably the pet cause of Enjolras’s that he can most get on board with.

“He was wondering if we should meet up soon,” Musichetta continues, hesitantly, as if she’s worried that Grantaire will snap at her. “They—he and Combeferre, and I’m sure a few of the others—were thinking of coming out to visit us.” 

Grantaire wonders how long it’ll be before they stop dancing on eggshells around him, or if it’ll always be something they do now—if it’s as worn into the pattern of their collective relationship as all the other habits they’ve picked up over the years.

“That sounds fine,” Grantaire says, and then when Musichetta raises her eyebrows he laughs. “Really. They should come out and see us. It’s been way too long, and I’m sorry if I made you feel like you couldn’t go back and see them, or like they couldn’t come here.”

“You’d really be okay with it?” Musichetta asks warily.

“Of course! They’re our family, Chetta. What, was I just gonna avoid them forever cause it’s awkward with me and Enjolras now?”

Chetta gives him a look that implies that as far as she’s aware, that’s exactly what they were gonna do.

“Tell him yes,” Grantaire says decisively. “Tell them to come. Easter holidays have to be coming up, right? Ask them if they’ll spend them here.”

“Okay,” Musichetta says, hesitantly at first, and then more firmly. “Okay.”

&

They don't all come. That kind of organisational feat is apparently far beyond anything even Courfeyrac can muster. Eponine is at a robotics competition, Cosette has work placement, and Combeferre has a project due the next week. Someone gets stomach flu at Jehan’s work and he has to cover last minute, much to his muttering disgust. Enjolras apparently has an internship with a think tank, but Grantaire can't say he’d honestly expected him to come—he doesn't really know what he would have done if he had. It's not that he doesn't miss Enjolras—Enjolras wanders through Grantaire's mind roughly once an hour for every day that Grantaire continues to breathe air—but in practice the thought of seeing him again makes him more uncomfortable than anything else. Their last face-to-face exchange had been a screaming match that had left them both in near-hysterics, and Grantaire hasn't the faintest idea how to come back from that. 

Courfeyrac, Bahorel, Feuilly, and Gavroche arrive at their door at four o’clock on a warm late-spring afternoon. It is immediately, and unequivocally, a Goddamn Scene. Courfeyrac instantly begins sobbing into Grantaire’s chest, Bahorel nearly breaks his ribs, and Gavroche rockets round the apartment with such velocity that he breaks a vase, two glasses and a plate within the first half hour. 

Grantaire, Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet have taken the week off from work and they spend it showing their family around Paris. They do the obvious stuff first, wading through crowds of people at the Eiffel Tower, the Arc de Triomphe and the Louvre. Then they do the nicer, quieter things, showing them their favourite restaurants and cafes and little shops. 

It’s a slightly surreal experience, slipping straight back into the jokes and laughter of his childhood with people who are very slightly altered, as though by a funhouse mirror or a dream. Everything feels exactly the same between them but it keeps catching Grantaire by surprise how much older they look. He can see only the faintest echoes of Courfeyrac’s wiry, jittery childhood-self in his confident, animated face and expansive hand gestures. He catches a glance of Bahorel laughing out of the corner of his eye and sees a burly, booming stranger. Gavroche is huge, an actual, fully developed person, with mature, well-articulated opinions and a genuinely funny sense of humour. Feuilly looks like the kind of put-together grownup that Grantaire would see on the bus, but certainly not his brother.

It’s incredible. He’s so proud of them that it aches. 


 


Grantaire thinks he’s alone in this train of thought, until Courfeyrac loops his arms around Grantaire’s neck on top of the Eiffel Tower. The wind is buffeting Grantaire’s curls, and the sun is in his eyes and he’s watching Bahorel pretend to propose to Feuilly in front of a crowd of baffled tourists. Bahorel is pretending to weep loudly as Feuilly looks frantically around for a way out and Gavroche, howling with laughter, takes photos. 

“You look so grown-up!” coos Courfeyrac. “I can’t get over it—a private detective! Like in a movie!”

“I’m a secretary,” Grantaire laughs, leaning into Courfeyrac’s strangle-hold. “To one of the sketchiest men in Paris, no less.”

“Even so,” says Courfeyrac. “It’s cool.’

Grantaire grins. “It is kinda cool.”

Courfeyrac barks out a laugh. “And you look so good, man! The haircut, the jawbones—and you’ve got so many freckles! What is that like twenty? Twenty five? Plus, we gotta get you and Bahorel to arm wrestle tonight, you’re fucking built!” He ruffles Grantaire’s hair teasingly and leans against him. Grantaire is surprised for a moment that he even notices Courfeyrac’s tactile-ness, given how much of a part of his life it used to be. It strums deep across some soft nostalgic part of him to feel Courfeyrac warm against his ribs and he feels an upswell of fondness for his whole family, and their presence in his life.

“Do I really look that different?” Grantaire asks. He hasn’t noticed any particularly big changes in himself. Musichetta cuts his hair now (which he supposes is a step up from when he didn’t even bother to wash it) and he had to invest in some slightly nicer clothes when he switched employment to a place that didn’t provide him with an apron.

Courfeyrac’s exuberant grin fades into a gentle smile. “You look happy,” he says, quietly and sincerely. 

Grantaire smiles back. 

“Grantaire, I’ve been thinking about this for a while,” booms Bahorel behind them, at a volume that causes both Grantaire and Courfeyrac to freeze, and pivot slowly round, horrified grins blossoming on their faces. 

“For at least one and a half minutes,” continues Bahorel, pretending to sniff back tears, bending to one knee and grinding the tourist traffic around them to complete standstill. “Since the moment Feuilly cruelly rejected me, actually. You truly are an effervescent specimen of a man—and, may I be so bold as to say it, a very visible one too, nowadays. Will you do me the honor of—” 

“PHILANDERING SLUT!” shrieks Feuilly. “ADULTRESS! BAHOREL I REJECTED YOU NOT FIFTEEN SECONDS AGO!!” 

“NO FEU, WAIT!!” screams Bahorel, spinning around on his knee and holding out his arms beseechingly. “I’M SORRY! I WAS WEAK!!” 

“I’m sorry, but I’m really going to have to ask you to leave,” says an appalled member of security to Grantaire. 

“Yeah,” says Grantaire, with an understanding nod. “No, that’s probably a good call.” 

&

They do a little tour of what Courfeyrac calls ‘Grantaire’s Paris’—apparently his postcards are much discussed back home in London which is… not something he’s sure he’s thrilled about. If nothing else, it makes him feel guilty that Enjolras’s postcard was so obviously the last. 

They go back to the Auberge Nicolas Flamel, at Courfeyrac’s insistence, and they spend a lazy afternoon wandering around Shakespeare and Company. Grantaire puts his foot down re: going back to the Sewer Museum but they do go to the Dans le Noir—Bossuet, defying all previously known laws of nature, manages to set fire to the table cloth in the complete absence of a naked flame, blinding everybody in the restaurant with light and causing €70 worth of property damage. They spend an entire day in the Centre Pompidou, and still have to drag Feuilly away at closing time. They wander all over the city, from the Latin Quarter to Montmartre to the Seizième, talking non-stop and catching up on all the little things they’ve missed. They eat dinner next to the Place de la Bastille and drink wine and laugh deep into the night. 

When it comes time for them to go home, Grantaire isn’t remotely ready to say goodbye. Homesickness rises up inside him like a toothache in his soul. He wishes that everyone was here, and that they wouldn’t leave. He misses the noise and the familiarity and the warmth of having his entire family around him. 

He can see, from the despondent expressions on Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet’s faces, that they feel the same. 

“We better get going,” says Courfeyrac, shrugging his duffel bag onto his shoulder. “Don’t want to miss the train! Who has Gavroche?” 

“Gottim!” says Bahorel, wandering into the living room, holding Gavroche by the scruff of his hood. 

“I want to staaaaay,” moans Gavroche. “I wanna see the Catacombs Golem!” 

Grantaire shakes his head in a tiny, frantic motion as Musichetta frowns and says, “You want to see the what?”

“Sorry Gav but we have orders from Dadvert himself to make sure you get on the Eurostar,” says Courfeyrac with a grin. “It was one of our conditions of travel.” 

They all take turns hugging each other, and Courfeyrac wells up with tears again. 

Feuilly grips Grantaire tightly in a hug and they sway for a moment, then pull apart. Feuilly smiles wryly and says, voice low, “You’re doing good, you know.” 

Grantaire dips his head and smiles back. “I know.” 

“Home’s always there, though,” Feuilly says, serious. “I know you needed to do this for yourself. And it was… obviously the right thing to do. But we’ll be there, when you’re ready to come home.” 

Grantaire smiles again, and tries desperately to keep any trace of moisture from escaping his eyes because he is not Courfeyrac and he will hold it together. “I know,” he says, voice hoarse. 

“Okay,” says Feuilly, knocking their foreheads together. “Well, as long as you know.” 

“Stop hogging,” Bahorel says, and latches on to Grantaire from behind, enveloping him in a hug that’s more like a Heimlich maneuver and spinning him around. 

“Eguuh, Rel! I’m gonna vom!”

&

The first week of September, Grantaire works flat out. They’re tracking down a Russian oligarch with a taste for expensive champagne, call girls, and avoiding required court dates, and it’s taking up all of Grantaire’s bandwidth. He’s in the big dumpster outside the man’s apartment, up to his shins in surprise un-bagged cat litter, when his phone rings.

“Hey,” says Mardisoir, “you want to grab coffee later? I wanted to talk to you about work stuff, but I'm busy with something out in the artist's quarter. Catch you back at work?"

"Uh—Sure," says Grantaire. "Is everything alright?"

"Yeah," says Mardisoir, sounding distracted. "Yeah, everything's fine. See you later!"

She hangs up before Grantaire can ask any follow-up questions. Since Mardisoir got back, he's been worried that they might not need him as much around the office. After all, he’d technically been hired to cover the phones and do some low-level admin while Claquesous was looking for Mardisoir. Now that they're both working full time, Grantaire wonders if they think he's worth the—necessarily measly—hourly rate they've been affording him. Granted, he hasn't found himself at a loose end yet, and granted, they both seem to enjoy not having to answer the phone, or dig through garbage, or argue with the landlord about the state of the roofing. But small PI businesses don't turn a huge profit, and renting space in Paris is expensive—long story short, Grantaire is worried his job security might not be in the most groovy of places.

Grantaire is surprised by how much the thought of the impending meeting nags at him throughout the day. He's never been a person of particularly big passions. He likes art, and the city of Paris (and London), and boxing. He loves his family. He wants, at some point, to get back into ballet. But he's never been a workaholic, or even a diligent employee. In all honesty, he's rarely been worth a wage packet. For his entire life, through high school academics and into adult employment, he's turned up late, put as little effort in as possible to keep his head above water, and gone home perfectly happy to be shot of whatever place had been holding him hostage. Now though, he finds himself staying late at the office every other night. He’ll get onto a particularly thready internet trail and he’ll be lost for hours—thinking outside the box, putting puzzles together, finding answers. He doesn't want to lose his job, and he definitely doesn't want to have to go back to pouring extra-hot soy caramel lattes. He wants to keep working with Claquesous and Mardisoir, even if they are both weird and semi-criminal, and take far too much palpable joy in assigning him the shit jobs. He doesn't even mind the constant array of actual criminals that colonise the front office—if nothing else, they liven up the place.

In the end, they go for drinks rather than coffee. Grantaire runs late working at the office and by the time he’s done (Mardisoir having been napping on the office’s shitty couch for the last hour and a half) it’s past 9 and way too late to be imbibing espressos. They trudge down to the same grungy little bar that Patron Minette always seems to congregate in, and Mardisoir orders them a couple of beers.

“So,” says Mardisoir, when they’re settled into one of the booths towards the back of the bar. “How’s tricks?”

Grantaire shrugs. “I’m good.”

He’s not, really, Mardisoir is looking at him very seriously and he’s starting to get very concerned that he’s going to have to go back to the cafe on the corner and beg for his old job. To distract himself, he watches Guelemer redefine the concept of losing at a game of pool.

“Does he know you’re supposed to hit the ball with the narrow end?” he asks.

Mardisoir stares across the bar with the world-weariness of a battle commander who’s seen many losses.

“I mean,” she says with a sigh. “It’s Guelemer, so who knows.”

Grantaire nods slowly and takes a sip of his beer. At the pool table, Guelemer starts swiping his pool cue back and forth, whipping balls off the table—to the apoplectic fury of Brujon, his unfortunate opponent.

“So did you find much on Lev Nikolaevich?” Mardisoir asks casually, also watching Guelemer, now with a kind of morbid interest.

“Yeah, I think I found his girlfriend’s address,” says Grantaire, tearing his eyes away from the escalating pool situation and looking at Mardisoir. “We could look into it tomorrow?”

Mardisoir nods absently. “Yeah, sounds good.” Then she sets down her beer and looks at Grantaire. “So. Me and Claquesous have been wanting to talk to you about something.”

Grantaire braces himself. “O–Kay?”

Mardisoir opens her mouth, then looks at Grantaire and visibly loses her train of thought.

“What is it?” she asks, startled. She glances around the bar as if to check for enemy combatants. “Why do you look like you think I’m about to shoot you?”

Grantaire grimaces and admits to himself that he’s not above begging, actually.

“Listen,” he says. “I know I was only really hired to help out when you were missing, but I really, really like working with you guys. I know it must be difficult with it being a small business and all but—I can put in overtime? You could even pay me less? I could… Probably make that work. I’ve been reworking the case file database you know, it’s so much more efficient now, but if I stop before it’s done it’ll just be a total mess, and—” He breaks off.

Mardisoir’s open mouth of surprise has morphed in a grin, widening with Grantaire’s every word.

“Grantaire, cheri,” she says. “Promise me that if you ever do decide to work for people who aren’t… well, us, you’ll work on your sales pitch before you go for an interview.”

Grantaire opens his mouth, flabbergasted. They can’t be firing him because of his poor interview skills, can they? His only formal interview for this post had involved him beating Claquesous round the head with a table lamp after a home invasion. Surely they weren’t holding that against him? He’d won the fight, after all.

Wait— “Wait, are you firing me or not?”

Mardisoir looks like she’s barely containing a laugh. “Do you want to be fired?” she asks.

“No!”

“Ah, well, in that case,” Mardisoir grins. “Me and Claquesous had been going to offer to pay for you to get your PI licence, so you wouldn’t just be a glorified secretary. But we could dock your pay and give you more overtime, if that’s something you’d be interested in?”

Grantaire’s mouth drops open comically. “NO!” he squeaks. “I would like to do the first thing, please!”

Mardisoir laughs. “We’ve been thinking about it for a while,” she says. “You put in more than your share of hours, you work hard, clients like you, and you’re a natural at the work. And Claquesous says you can handle yourself in a fight, which always helps. We’re kinda criminally underpaying you, because you’re technically our secretary, but if you did your PI exam and got your licence you could work as a full-time detective and we could take a more active approach to getting you trained up. It’d come with a pay rise, too.”

Grantaire realises he’s clasping his face in his hands like a southern belle.

“Really?” he asks, feeling stupidly, ridiculously elated, and also like this must be some kind of twisted joke. “But—Can you afford it?”

Mardisoir grins and shakes her head in slow disbelief. “Remember what I said about the sales pitch, Grantaire? Take the win!”

“Oh my God? Thank you so much!” Grantaire leans forwards in his seat and splays out both hands on the table. “You won’t regret this, I swear.”

Mardisoir laughs. “To answer your question, since you’ve joined us our revenue has gone up more than a third. These kinds of businesses need to be small and light but two people just wasn’t cutting it, not with our client load. We turn more than enough profit to give you a pay rise and put some aside for your training. It’s an investment, anyway. You’ll make a great PI.”

&

Grantaire heads back to the apartment sometime around midnight, feeling like he’s walking on air. He’d declined Mardisoir and Depeche’s repeated offers for him to join them in their night out clubbing. Given that he can’t reasonably cut about in a tank top without giving the world an eyeful of his wings, Grantaire tries to avoid hot, sweaty environments. He also finds clubbing to be generally more enjoyable when approaching blind drunkenness, which is a state he tries hard not to aspire to anymore. And, most importantly, he’s half hoping that someone in the flat will still be awake, so he can scream and flail and jump up and down a bit in the company of people who aren’t his employers.

He’s tempted—so, so tempted—to call Enjolras. It’s oddly not an impulse he usually struggles with much; on most days the push factors just about outweigh the pull. But right now all he wants in the world is to hear Enjolras’s voice, jubilant and proud—because he would be, Grantaire knows he would be—and celebrate with him that his strange, surprising little career is looking like it might just be around to stay.

Resisting the urge to call Enjolras is like resisting scratching an itch—once the thought has entered his brain it’s impossible to get it out. Grantaire grins antagonistically at himself and stuffs his hands deep into his pockets; he’s had a couple of beers, now is not the time to be calling Enjolras in the middle of the night after two years of stiff formalities and awkward check-ins. But maybe later, once he’s celebrated with Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet, and had a good night’s sleep—maybe then he and Enjolras can talk. Maybe it would be okay.

The walk up the stairs feels longer than usual—his legs are a bit heavy with beer. Musichetta has left the door unlocked for him, most likely to prevent him from disturbing her sleep—she complains endlessly about the clatter of the key in the lock waking her up. He really wishes she wouldn’t leave the door open though; they live in Paris, there is crime here. He resolves to get her some earplugs. Personally he thinks the problem is that Musichetta doesn’t sleep well unless she knows everybody’s home, and that restlessness is what wakes her when Grantaire tiptoes in after hours.

He slips into the flat, locks the door behind him, slides his keys quietly into the bowl by the front door, and toes his boots into the treacherous pile of trainers, flip-flops and high heels that nearly always trips him in the dark. The apartment is still and quiet and bathed in grey—he’ll be conveying his good news tomorrow morning, then, unless Musichetta comes out to scowl at him for jangling his keys. Moving into the kitchen, he clicks the kettle on and fishes out one of Joly’s herbal teas from the back of the cupboard, rinsing Bossuet’s Captain Marvel mug under the tap. The tshhhhhhhh of the kettle fills the apartment and Grantaire glances automatically towards Musichetta’s door, not wanting to wake her with the noise.

Her door is ajar and unlit. He crosses the living room quietly and reaches out to close it, glancing in quickly on an impulse that isn’t born from any particular thought or concern—except maybe the knowledge that Musichetta, in deference to her aforementioned light sleeping habits, usually closes her door fully before going to sleep.

There’s no one in her bed.

Grantaire makes quite sure. He walks into her room and stares at the made-up bed, then out and into the empty living room again. Joly and Bossuet’s doors are closed. She’s probably asleep in one of their rooms—it’s not like that hasn’t happened before, a million times, and Grantaire feels faintly ridiculous for the way his heart is beating in his ears and his lips feel numb and tingly.

He opens Joly’s door, quiet and slow, and there’s no one in his room either. By the time he’s throwing open Bossuet’s, his brain has finally caught up to what his body has been telling him from the first moment he stepped through the front door: the apartment is empty. There’s no one here.

He calls Musichetta first, and the low vibration of her phone thrums out from her bedside table. Joly’s and Bossuet’s phones he finds on the floor of the living room, once Joly’s phone has illuminated the room from under the couch.

Grantaire takes slow shaky breaths through his nose, and scrolls down his contact list to Enjolras. The phone rings endlessly into the dark living room, and Grantaire’s eyes shift restlessly over every corner, looking for any sign of a struggle. But the balcony doors and windows are closed and the TV’s standby light is blinking from the corner. Everything, with the exception of his three family members, is exactly where it should be. Grantaire is starting to feel like he’s descended into a kind of nightmare world—this current moment, suspended in half-darkness and indecision, is a vivid, searing echo of all his worst nightmares. He’s cut off from his family, with the sea and hundreds of miles between him and any kind of help. He’s completely alone.

And then from somewhere deep inside Grantaire comes a dreadful certainty: he is not alone.

A shadow peels itself away from the wall. It’s like an optical illusion: one moment Grantaire is staring vacantly at the balcony doors, paralysed by uncertainty, dread and terror spiralling through him; the next, a man is standing in front of him, lit from behind by distant streetlights, his face in darkness.

He makes no move towards Grantaire, he simply stares. Grantaire stares back.

“You should run,” the shadow says, finally. His voice is surprisingly low and smooth, pitched quietly in the dead-stillness of the apartment.

“Montparnasse,” says Grantaire, and the man steps forwards.

Montparnasse has grown into his features. The sharp edges he has in common with all the razers are tempered by a strange kind of half-feral beauty. His eyes are dark, and tired.

“Where have they taken them?” Grantaire asks, surprised by how steady his voice sounds. His hands are shaking.

Montparnasse shrugs unconcernedly. “I don’t know.”

“The Institute?”

“Seems like a safe bet.”

The confirmation puts a shard of something ice cold and awful into Grantaire’s stomach.

“Are you going to try to kill me now?”

Something like a smile flits around the edges of Montparnasse’s sharp mouth. Grantaire thinks he still knows Montparnasse well enough to guess the source of his humour: Grantaire’s use of the word ‘try’.

Grantaire watches, turning slowly on the spot, as Montparnasse moves away from the wall to prowl around the apartment. He peers at framed photos and plucks at Bossuet’s hand-knitted blanket, still curled up on the sofa from where they’d watched The Good Place last night. Montparnasse slits his eyes suddenly back to Grantaire and catches him watching.

“Shame not to, really,” says Montparnasse finally. “It’s been on the ol’ bucket list for a decade or so.”

He doesn’t seem to be too interested in following through on his threat though—at least not right at this moment. He picks up the same photo that had caught Claquesous’ eye, during Grantaire’s last experience with casual home invasion, and studies it.

Grantaire leans against the sofa, slightly concerned his knees are going to give way, and watches him.

“Funny,” says Montparnasse, with a humourless smirk.

Grantaire doesn’t know what to say, or what move to make, but his instincts are telling him to be quiet and let the dice fall.

“It seems like only yesterday you blew the Institute to smithereens,” says Montparnasse, smoothing his finger across the glass of the photo.

“I’m glad you’re alive,” says Grantaire, quiet and sincere. “I never wanted—Well. I’m just. Glad.” He doesn’t feel like he has the right to wax lyrical about his bone-deep guilt, his searing regret, or how frequently his last memory of Montparnasse’s face has haunted his dreams.

Montparnasse completely ignores him and continues to look at the photo.

“I shouldn’t have left,” says Grantaire.

Montparnasse, slowly, looks up. “No,” he agrees neutrally.

“You wouldn’t have left.”

Montparnasse’s eyes flick away from his and his mouth twists, but he doesn’t answer.

Montparnasse, even at the age of eleven, had been a vengeful little bastard. Grantaire can’t imagine a further decade in the Institute has nurtured the development of any merciful or forgiving tendencies in him; those kinds of traits are antithetical to survival, and Montparnasse is, above all else, a survivor. And yet strangely, in spite of all that, Grantaire does not feel unsafe. The well-honed threat monitor in the back of his head is still and silent. Grantaire can’t work out if that’s because he’s completely exhausted, or because his latent affection and ongoing guilt with regards to Montparnasse is clouding his otherwise stellar judgement. It certainly can’t be because Montparnasse isn’t plotting Grantaire’s immediate and painful demise.

Just as Grantaire is considering making a bid for the knife block in the kitchen—in spite of his instincts and in deference to common sense—there’s a dull bang from outside the small balcony window. Grantaire nearly leaps out of his skin; he’s so primed for flight or fight that he has to mentally wrestle with himself for a moment to prevent his legs from carrying him off at a sprint towards the door. Montparnasse is completely still, staring out towards the balcony with narrowed eyes.

One long moment later a small figure opens the balcony door with a soft click and emerges into the shadowy living room. She lets in with her the cool night air, and a sickening lurch of deja vu. 

“Azelma,” hisses Montparnasse. “I told you to stay.”

“I slipped,” the girl says, scowling. “And it’s cold.”

Her feet are bare, which is something Grantaire realises when he rips his eyes away from her face. She’s so unsettlingly reminiscent of a grumpy eleven year old Eponine that his brain flat-out stalls for a second.

“What?” she snaps at him, teeth bared. She's perhaps not quite identical to Eponine—the gloom of the living room throws her sharp teeth and knife-edge jawline into fierce contrast. She's a razer, not flock. 

Grantaire turns accusing eyes back on Montparnasse, who shrugs.

“Why do you have a child??” Grantaire hisses at him, darting his eyes from Montparnasse to the Eponine-clone—Azelma, Grantaire supposes—and then back again.

“That’s a very good question,” Montparnasse mutters, directing a scowl at Azelma, who blithely ignores him and throws herself onto the couch with a huff.

Montparnasse raises his eyes to heaven, visibly resenting his lot in life—it’s an expression Grantaire remembers vividly from childhood and it’s almost enough to bring a smile of nostalgia to his lips.

Azelma is wearing an expression that’s at once bored, tired, and sullen. “I’m hungry,” she says to Montparnasse. And then, with a sideways expression of unconcern that doesn’t quite mask the edges of her fear, “Are you sure they’re not going to come looking for us?”

“I don’t give a shit,” Montparnasse informs her. “And no, they’re not. This horrible little man is going to make sure we’re somewhere they can’t find us.” He bares his teeth at Grantaire in an expression that misses the mark on ‘smile’ by miles.

“Wait,” says Grantaire. “What?”

Montparnasse sighs. “I’m not going to kill you,” he says regretfully. “And in return, you’re going to find us somewhere to go that’s safe.”

Grantaire stares at him. “You’re really not going to kill me?”

“Why would I waste all this time talking if I was going to kill you?” mutters Montparnasse. “It’s not productive. Killing you doesn’t get me anything. Those criminal connections of yours, on the other hand…”

A sharp burst of panic tears through Grantaire. “How do you know about my ‘connections’?”

“Please,” drawls Montparnasse, rolling his eyes. “The Institute knows everything about you; they’ve been monitoring you since you escaped. And they noticed when your new bosses also happened to be people who were annoying them. I think they were worried you were gonna join forces to take them down but nah—” Montparnasse grins, “I did tell ‘em you’d never put your own neck on the line to save strangers.”

Grantaire’s head spins with a variety of competing reactions. His skin crawls with shame at that last, horribly accurate dig. The thought of the Institute watching him and his family all these years is enough to bring him out in a cold, nauseated sweat. And lastly, there’s a guilty flush of relief that it isn’t his prevarication and lies of omission that’s brought the whole Institute crashing back around them again. Grantaire thinks there’s a limit to the amount of guilt he can sling over his shoulders before he collapses.

“If they knew where we were all this time, why didn’t they take us back sooner?” Grantaire asks. If it isn’t his involvement with Claquesous and Mardisoir that’s endangered his family, then he has no idea what’s prompted this sudden cataclysmic development.

Montparnasse’s eyes narrow, and a very small, very cruel smile touches his lips—as if he’s just realised he knows something horrible Grantaire doesn’t, and he’s looking forward to telling him. “It was never safe for them to pull you all back in while you were under the protection of that old rich guy. He’d have raised merry hell—too many connections, you know. Now he’s gone, they’re moving in. Not on you, obviously. You’re an ‘unacceptable risk’, whatever that means. To be honest, given the fact that it took you about ten minutes to notice me standing next to your curtains, I don’t think they needed to be so worried. They were probably concerned you’d blow their fucking building up again, though. It was hell on the decor.”

Grantaire stares at Montparnasse. It feels like the sky is crashing down around him.

“What do you mean ‘now he’s gone’?” he asks, voice barely above a whisper.

Montparnasse’s small cruel smile widens for a moment, before fading. “He’s in prison,” he relents, rolling his eyes. “Don’t go getting weepy, it’s embarrassing.”

“Prison?!” Grantaire repeats, much louder. “Valjean?!”

“Is that his name?” Montparnasse asks disinterestedly. “I think there’s a few people involved.”

“Who?!” Grantaire asks, thinking of Javert and Myriel.

Montparnasse waves his hand indifferently. “I have no idea. Turn on the news if you’re so interested, it’s not a secret. As far as I know the criminal activity was real, it just took a while for the Institute to prove it.”

Grantaire rubs his hand over his face and tries to concentrate, to prioritise. At the moment, he needs to get his family back from the Institute. Jail is just jail—they can deal with that later.

“What about the others, the ones in London? Did the Institute get them too?”

Montparnasse nods. “All in one go, that was the plan. That way nobody gets the chance to run away or alert the authorities.”

“They must know I’m going to come after my family,” Grantaire says, frowning. “It doesn’t make any sense, them leaving me here. Surely it’s an ‘unacceptable risk’ to leave this kind of loose end around?”

Montparnasse, visibly growing bored of the conversation, migrates to the kitchen and begins to root around the cupboards. At Grantaire’s question he looks over his shoulder at him and makes a expression that says, clear as day: how can a person be so stupid and still manage to stand upright and breathe at the same time?


 


“What a fucking chess-master you are, a goddam expert strategist indeed,” Montparnasse mutters, finding a paper bag with half a one-day-old baguette in it and tossing it to Azelma.

He prowls back around to stand in front of Grantaire and says in a loud clear voice, “They sent me here to kill you, comprende fucking vous?”

Azelma is watching them like a tennis match, gnawing on her appropriated baguette.

Grantaire closes his eyes for a moment, trying to force his brain to work. When did he get so slow at thinking on his feet?

He thinks what he’s about to say is going to make Montparnasse question his cognitive function but he has to be sure. “And you’re… Not going to kill me?” The statement morphs into a question on its way out his mouth.

Montparnasse’s expression redefines the meaning of the word disdain. He stalks away towards the fridge, yanks it open—briefly illuminating his face in cold bluish light—and withdraws a carton of milk. He takes a swig from it, and wanders back towards Grantaire, apparently pathologically unable to stay still.

“No,” he says finally, with narrowed eyes. “You’re going to hide us. Put us somewhere the Institute won’t be able to find us, get us some money and some fake papers. And in return, I generously won’t kill you. Not today anyway.”

Grantaire feels a surge of frustration thick in his throat.

“I need to find my family,” he says wildly. “I don’t have time to find you a… a fucking Airbnb. The Institute has been watching me for years, apparently! What makes you think I can hide you now?”

Montparnasse shrugs placidly.

“Maybe you can’t,” he says. “Guess that means I’ll have to kill you. Your loss.”

Grantaire thinks hard before raising one hand and saying, “Wait.”

He strides into his room and re-emerges with an art pad. Ripping out a sheaf of paper, he scrawls a message across it in graphite.

“I assume the Institute has a bug on my phone?” he asks Montparnasse as he writes.

Montparnasse shrugs. “That would probably be the smart thing to assume, but who knows. I’m not a nerd.” 

Grantaire rolls his eyes. “Fine. Do you have any electronics on you?”

Montparnasse shakes his head, and Grantaire folds the paper sharply in half and hands it to him. “Go to the address on the front. The door key is that sequence of numbers at the bottom. It’s the top floor office, the Private Investigator one. Tell the man there that Grantaire sent you, and give him this paper. Tell him whatever you like, whatever you think is safe. Claquesous should help you. Tell him I’ll pay him back, whatever he wants. Alright?”

“He’ll protect us both?”

Grantaire doesn’t hesitate. “Yes.” He digs his wallet out of his pocket, extracting his Banque Populaire debit card and handing it to Montparnasse. “You can use this for expenses. There’s not much on it but I can top it up if you need more.”

Montparnasse raises one thin, expressive eyebrow and pockets the card.

Montparnasse and Azelma watch as Grantaire grabs the nearest pair of boots from the floor-pile and thrusts his feet into them. He leaves his phone on the kitchen counter, and grabs a hoodie with wing-slits from over the back of the couch.

“What happens if you die? Will your bank account keep updating?” Montparnasse asks casually, checking his nails.

“If I die you’re on your own,” says Grantaire. “Good luck.”

I live at starkey.tumblr.com, feel free to come and screm.





~

Everything starts to get better in this chapter! And there are WAY less trigger warnings! phew! 

General trigger warnings:
- Oblique references to the events of the first & second chapters and all that that entails
- Severe depression & suicidal ideation/thoughts - Grantaire starts out this chapter the lowest he's ever been in terms of mental illness, in the middle of a severe depressive episode. However over the course of the chapter he gets a lot better.

Section specific trigger warnings (detailed):
1. Reference to sex workers going missing and discussions of the vulnerabilities of women in poverty. Minor character discusses her kidnaping at length, including a brief reference to force-feeding via an NG tube. Grantaire has a panic attack.

- I know the update took longer than a couple of weeks but in my defence! It was not four years :D- There's gonna be one more chapter after this and THEN! the epilogue because I somehow added 12k on the second draft of 'chapter four' and it had to get sawed in half for the sake of human decency- As before, all the accolades gotta go to Fiver! Both for exhaustive beta reading and just generally putting up with my nonsense tbh :')- Trigger warnings are in the notes, there's very few for this chapter!- Chapter playlist!- I love you alllll, thank you so much for commenting and kudosing and whatnot, you're the best <3


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Grantaire takes the stairs to the roof at a sprint, slamming open the service door and falling through it to the cool outdoor air beyond. It’s a quarter to one—he’d arrived at the apartment less than half an hour ago, but that’s all the time it’s taken for his entire life to fall apart. In a strange, hollow way, he’s surprised by how little he’s surprised. He supposes that on some level he’s always been waiting for the other shoe to drop and now here it is at last—the shoe and the whole shop with it, crashing through the routines and distractions of Grantaire’s nice, laboriously constructed life.

He strips off his sweater, t-shirt and binder, and throws the hoodie with wing-slits on over his bare skin, threading his wings through the gaps. It’s going to be cold, but he doesn’t have time to go anywhere but forward.

When he hurls himself off the roof of the apartment complex and out into the sky beyond, there’s no answering spark of joy deep within his soul. His mind is as sharp and empty as broken glass and his feverish, choking terror is a rolling storm, extinguishing the stars from the sky and the city lights from below.

He flies up and up, then due north over Paris for a length of time that goes uncharted in his mind. Has Paris always been so endless? His face glows with the light of two million people living their lives in the darkness, and he’s never felt so apart from them.  Eventually the dense cluster of brilliance disperses into a sprawl, and then the land beneath him lies mostly dark and empty. During the daytime it would be a rolling patchwork quilt of farmland, but at night all that’s left for him to see is the occasional dot of light. Grantaire’s internal compass is infallible but he’s paranoid that without his phone he’s at risk of getting turned around in the dark and losing time. He follows the biggest, most glittering road travelling north, tracking the darting lights of cars with his eyes.

He’s hitting about fifty miles an hour by the time Amiens rises to meet him, blindingly bright. He’s been in the air for two hours already, which is longer than he’s ever flown in one go before. He can certainly feel it—he’s out of breath, damp with sweat, and the area between his shoulder blades is starting to ache. He’d use less energy if he glided, but that wouldn’t give him the speed he needs right now. For as long as he’s got it in him, he’s going to sprint for home.

He veers west after Amiens, aiming for the coast, following the call of the sea. It’s another hour of flying, with very little to distract his twisting, circling fears. He thinks that this must be the area Valjean is from: Grantaire doesn’t know much about Montreuil sur Mer—he has no idea how big it is or what it would look like from the air—but it’s a small, flickering comfort nonetheless.

He flies on and on, the concept of seawards bright like a sweeping lighthouse beam in the back of his mind, getting more and more insistent. And yet when the coast does arrive, it looms up, sudden and unexpected, taking him by surprise. A solid line of illumination demarcates the light-speckled land from the endless black expanse of sea.

Grantaire follows the coast up, north and north and north, soaring high on the sea drafts, until the land bends east, and he starts to see boats on the water under him, and—finally—he’s at Calais. He lands heavily on his knees, crouched on top of the ferry terminal. His cheeks are red hot with exertion but the rest of him—his hands, his feet, the tip of his nose—are freezing cold. His hoodie is soaking with a combination of sweat and condensation from the high altitude air. His hair is wet, hanging limp in his eyes, and his arms are mottled with cold.

For a while he just focuses on heaving in ragged gulps of air. His mouth is incredibly dry, but grabbing a bottle of water for the road had been the last thing on his mind when he’d left Paris, and now that his wings are hanging out he can’t exactly stroll up to the ferry terminal shop and buy a Coke.  He sucks hopefully on the arm of his soaking hoodie, and manages to pull some cotton-flavoured moisture from it. The night around him turns colder and colder as his heart rate and breathing return to normal. He jams his freezing hands into his armpits and contemplates the dark sea in front of him.

In the year the flock had turned thirteen, Valjean and Javert had taken them to Brighton for the day. Grantaire still remembers the experience of setting eyes on the sea for the first time—the rushing noise, the endless horizon, the sparkling, shifting light. Before that moment, the sea had been a creature of his imagination, an idle fantasy to pass the time.  This is probably the reason that Grantaire’s conception of the sea, even as an adult, has never been orientated around summer beach trips or ice cream. No, Grantaire’s sea is still one of myth, of wine-dark waves and black ships and Odysseus, far from home, gone so long it hurts. The sea: where Icarus landed and made his grave, when he burned up his wings out of sight of home or land. Grantaire doesn’t think it’s particularly unusual for him to view the sea as inherently mythic—after all, the waves where Icarus fell are still called the Icarian sea.

Grantaire doubts the world will do him the same favour, if he plummets into the black waters of the Channel tonight. Nobody will ever know, if it swallows him whole.

He stands up. His wings are heavy on his back, the feathers rustling with the fine tremors of muscle fatigue.  His hands are shaking too, and his teeth are chattering from the cold and adrenaline. The shadows respond sluggishly to his will, resisting him as he pulls them closer. He’s frightened, and alone, and exhausted. But more than all those things, more than anything in the world, he loves his family. And that will have to be enough to keep him flying for just a little while longer.

He launches himself out over the Channel, the muscles in his wings and back starting up an immediate shrieking protest. He flies hard, due west, the direction Grantaire knows, deep in his hollow bones, to be home. The lights of France shrink and dim behind him, and he plunges on, into the darkness. Beneath him, occasionally, he sees the small faint lights of fishing boats, and the bigger, brighter illuminations of the ferries. 

It’s the longest night of Grantaire’s life. Sometimes it feels like the darkness is pressing around him, smothering him, until he can’t see the lines of his own hands in front of his face. Initially he keeps his eyes fixed on the boats, distracting himself by thinking about all the people down there, living their lives while the water churns around them. Eventually though, he gets too tired to do even that. He closes his eyes intermittently, half falling asleep as his wings beat on and on, trudging through the air on autopilot. 

Once, with the strange gradual suddenness of sleep, he slips below the threshold of consciousness. His wings, still aloft, fail to press into the next beat, and he drops like a stone.

He rockets back to consciousness like he’s been hit by an electric shock, hurtling upwards in a frantic oscillation of wings, choking on a gasp of terror. It takes him a good few minutes to calm his breathing and regain feeling in his fingers.

In the time since he last opened his eyes, the world has lightened around him by increments, casting strange turbulent reflections on the sea beneath him. It takes him a beat to realise that he can actually see the water now, rather than an endless black void. It looks oddly static from this distance, a fixed pattern of waves rather than a moving mass. He watches it, hypnotised by exhaustion, as it lightens through near-black to dark navy grey, finally reaching a light, almost-silver blue.

And then, finally, far in the distance, he sees a thin band of rose-white chalk, warmed by the first touch of sun, rising out of the sea to meet him.

Rosy-fingered dawn, he thinks. And in spite of everything, his lips curl upwards.

Grantaire has never been what you might call a ‘true Englishman’. He and his family have their own culture, scattered with the remnants of Americanisms and Flockish and a hundred thousand in-jokes and habits and customs. London had been his home for his teenage years and it had served as a backdrop to both his first experiences with the concepts of home and freedom, and his terrible, dogged descent into mental illness. He’s never been particularly nostalgic for the United Kingdom—there’s no longing in him for Tesco Metros, or the smell of the Tube, or the endless drizzling rain. But as the White Cliffs of Dover surge to meet him, huge and present and, in spite of everything, still there—he feels his heart rise like the sun.

And then there’s something better—something much, much better—because over the sun-pink cliffs a figure is moving towards him at speed, like a comet streaking out of the sky: a bright red leather jacket and wings, a thousand myriad shades of gold.

Grantaire hits 70 miles an hour and collides with Enjolras just as the pink new-born sun finally crests the horizon, breaking the world around them into prisms of blinding golden light.

They spin wildly in midair, gripping each other’s arms tight enough to hurt. Grantaire can’t see because he’s crying, suddenly and without warning, sobbing into Enjolras’s warm, sweat-damp neck. Enjolras sounds like he’s crying too, great heaving sobs that catch somewhere around Grantaire’s sternum and lodge there.

They alight, surprisingly gracefully, on the edge of the cliffs. It takes a while before either of them can bring themselves to speak or pull away, but eventually urgency breaks through Grantaire’s wild, weak-kneed relief.

“Are you alright?” he asks, pulling back and examining Enjolras’s face for the first time.

The difference between the Enjolras in Grantaire’s head—still nonsensically twelve, tufty-haired and red-eyed—and this Enjolras—a man with stubble, and tired eyes, and a settled, handsome face—momentarily knocks Grantaire off his axis. Enjolras’s gaze flashes over him, apparently doing his own assessment of changes.

For a sudden, wildly inappropriate split second, Grantaire remembers Courfeyrac saying, “you look good,” and his spinning mind wonders if Enjolras agrees. On the tail of that thought comes the realisation that if Grantaire looks anywhere near as bad as he feels, then the answer is probably an unequivocal ‘no.’ 

“I’m fine,” Enjolras says, after a beat. His voice is hoarse, and deeper than Grantaire remembers.

Grantaire finds himself moving closer into Enjolras’s space—so close that it’s borderline inappropriate, given that they haven’t seen each other in about two years—and feels like a flower in sunlight.

Enjolras doesn’t seem to notice anything unusual about their proximity. “What about you?” he asks, urgently. “You’re not hurt?” His hands move restlessly up and down Grantaire’s arms, an echo of his old nervous habit.

“I’m fine,” says Grantaire. “I’m okay.”

“And—” Enjolras pauses. “The others?” His lips are thin with fear, wind-dry and bitten, and his eyes are too wide.

Grantaire opens his mouth to speak but when he tries to confront the reality of the events of the night before, to recount them out loud, all that escapes is a croak. A few more tears slip down his face. He shakes his head and clears his throat. “They, uh. They got them. They’re gone. I wasn’t in the apartment.” Guilt guilt guilt guilt throbs in his head. He pushes it away; it’s not useful. “What about…?” He leaves the question hanging horribly, unable to verbalise the worst case scenario.

Enjolras closes his eyes and shakes his head. “All of them,” he says hoarsely. “I was out of the city on a trip with the uni. Last minute, Courfeyrac kept bugging me about socialising and ‘not being a recluse’—” Enjolras inserts jagged, fraught air quotes into the sentence, barking out a laugh without humour. “So I went. And then I see all over the news that Valjean, Javert and Myriel have been arrested? So I tried calling around and nobody answered. I thought maybe… I don’t know. That they weren’t answering me because of the arrests? That maybe they’d been taken in too? For questioning?”

Enjolras rakes his fingers through his curls and gestures uselessly, his words tumbling out in a rush. “I came home right away. I went to our flat first—Courf, Ferre and Cos were supposed to be there, Cos and Ferre were supposed to be working on a research project or something… Everything looked pretty normal but they—they just weren’t there. I didn’t… I was freaking out, but I thought genuinely that they might just have been taken in for questioning. I mean we always knew there was something going on with Valjean, right? He publicly goes by a different name! But then—” Enjolras’s shoulders hunch and his face crumples a little. “Marius called me. He was panicking, he said that his, Ponine and Cos’s flat had been gone over, that it looked like there’d been a fight. I thought… Well Ponine might want to fight the police, but if they were just taking her in for questioning she wouldn’t wreck her flat over it.”

Enjolras’s lips thin, and he winces. “It took us—me and Marius. It took us so fucking long to work out what was going on. Everything was completely confused by the fact that we thought the police might have them. Marius got his grandfather to do some digging around, work out if anyone else had been pulled in, and I went to the others’ flats.” He scowls. “I took too long. I didn’t want to think that it could be the Institute, so I concentrated on the distraction. So stupid!”

He looks back up, and meets Grantaire’s eyes. “Bahorel and Feuilly’s place looked like it’d been gone over with a jackhammer.  Every bit of furniture in the place was destroyed. Gav was staying over that night—they do that sometimes, you know, so Gav doesn’t feel left out now we’ve all moved out. They didn’t—” Enjolras looks briefly like he’s going to cry. “They wouldn’t have let them take Gav without a hell of a fight.”

“And Jehan’s?” Grantaire asks, trying to calm the hammering pulse in his ears.

Enjolras shakes his head slowly, closing his eyes again. “His studio is covered in blood,” he whispers.  He presses his hands over his face for a moment and takes a deep steadying breath.

“I knew I needed to get to you,” he continues, from behind his hands. “Probably not the best move, strategically. But I just—I needed—”

“I know,” says Grantaire. “I tried calling—”

Enjolras shakes his head fiercely, rolling his eyes. “It was so stupid. All I could think about was how they’d known where we all were! Down to the minute! They’d made a move when every single person they wanted was gathered in one of four places, and they’d timed it perfectly so that it all happened at the same time, just as Valjean and Javert got arrested. And all I kept thinking about were those horrible fucking button microphones they used to put on our clothes… I— I didn’t want to endanger you. I wanted to call but I thought that if I did and you answered that it might—I don’t know. Somehow draw attention to you. I smashed my phone up before I even considered that you might be trying to reach me.” He smiles ruefully. It’s an odd, self-deprecating look on Enjolras.

“I agree about the phones,” says Grantaire, reassuringly. “I left mine in Paris. I think it was the right move.”

Enjolras nods, and they stare at each other for a beat. They don’t need to verbalise how they feel because they can see it reflected in each others’ faces—the fear, the exhaustion, the helplessness. “What do we do?” whispers Enjolras finally.

Grantaire finds himself abruptly too tired to stand. He sits down on the cliff edge, and Enjolras settles next to him, arm-to-arm, thigh-to-thigh. Together they stare off into the sea. The sun on their faces is blinding, white-gold, blanching them pale and causing them to shutter their eyes.

“We’ll find them,” says Grantaire quietly. He takes Enjolras’s hand. “I promise.”

 

 &

London doesn’t feel like home without his family. It’s surreal, being in a taxi driving through Piccadilly Circus, early September rain drizzling down, knowing that although the world and the city are still spinning on, his family aren’t waiting for him at the end of the car journey.

Marius meets them at the door to his, Eponine and Cosette’s flat. 

“Sorry it’s a bit of a mess,” mumbles Marius. “I just got back from my grandfather’s. I haven’t cleaned up yet.” He leads them down the hall and into the living room, looking dazed to the point of concussion.

The open-plan living room is a mess, with chairs, lamps and side-tables overturned and strewn throughout the room. Colourful shards of a shattered glass paperweight are scattered across the floor, sparkling gently in the late afternoon sun.

Marius stands in the centre of the chaos, looking around himself helplessly. As Grantaire and Enjolras watch, he hesitantly sets a lamp right, and then kneels down on the floor to try to pick up the shards of glass with his bare hands.

Grantaire and Enjolras exchange a glance; Enjolras sighs.

“Careful, Marius,” he says, pulling Marius up from the floor and propelling him onto the couch. “Come on, sit down. You’re going to cut yourself. Where’s your brush and shovel?”

While Enjolras carefully sweeps the shards into the shovel, Grantaire makes them cups of tea.

“What did your grandfather say, Marius?” asks Enjolras, when they’re settled on the couches.

Marius stares miserably down into his milk-white, three-sugars tea, shoulders hunched, but when he speaks, his voice is surprisingly steady. “My grandfather is friends with some of the highest ranking barristers in the country—they’ve taken on your fathers’ case as a favour to him. Apparently they—the lawyers I mean—have been talking to Valjean, Javert and Myriel for most of the day. I don’t know the details but apparently they think there’s some real issues with the evidence they’re trying to use to convict. From what I understand, they can’t work out where they got it from, or where the case has come from, even. But that seems to be their defense angle—my grandfather says if they can prove wrongful acquisition of evidence or cast any doubt on the source of it… It’d go a long way to helping our case.”

“And bail?” says Enjolras.

Marius shrugs. “It seems like they’re struggling to get bail granted, but I don’t know why—usually that would only happen for violent crimes. Do you know anything about their past? Javert worked for Interpol didn’t he? Could it be to do with that? Enjolras, you said you thought there was probably some element of truth to Valjean being… You know. A criminal.”

“I said I thought that the law might have reason to come after him, I didn’t use the word ‘criminal’,” says Enjolras, a little snippily. “What does ‘criminal’ even mean? Is everyone who forgets to use their car indicator a criminal?”

Grantaire grasps the broad direction of Enjolras’s meaning but thinks that now is probably not the time to reflect on criminal justice theory. “I think it means he’s been criming,” he says, faux-seriously, grinning after a beat. Enjolras rolls his eyes but his lips turn up.

“I mean we know he publicly uses a different name?” says Grantaire, in reply to Marius. “He built his business as Ultime Madeline, but he’s always used Jean Valjean with us, and with Myriel and Javert.” 

“What about his business?” Marius asks. “When did he start it?”

Enjolras and Grantaire look at each other and pull simultaneous expressions of guilty uncertainty.

“Uhhhhh—” says Grantaire. “Twenty? Years? Ago?”

“No,” says Enjolras, “Surely not. He’s what… Fifty nine? Didn’t he start it up when he was about thirty?”

“Oh yeah—” Grantaire frowns. “Yeah, that sounds right.”

Marius is watching them with a pained expression.

“He’s our dad!” Grantaire says, by way of self-defence. “He’s boring! He wears cardigans and gets overly invested in The Great British Bake Off. We don’t know about his life.”

On the table, Marius’s phone buzzes with a notification, and he lunges for it. “It’s the lawyers,” he says, frowning. “They’re saying they’ve been charged. Umm. Okay, so Patrin Javert has been charged with aiding and abetting a fugitive. Charles Myriel has been charged with fraud. And Jean Valjean has been charged with fleeing legal custody, in addition to… Jesus Christ, aggravated robbery and reckless endangerment?”

“What?” Enjolras asks, aghast.

“So it sounds like…” Marius frowns in concentration, his eyes flitting across the screen. “Okay so… Valjean was involved in a robbery of a small grocery store in Toulon when he was twenty-five. He didn’t enter the store carrying a weapon, but a police officer on the scene did have one. There was an altercation and a shop attendant was shot—the lawyers are implying that Valjean wasn’t the one to blame, but that seems to be what the arrest at the time was based on. He was sentenced to twenty-five years. God, that’s so long! But he…escaped from jail? And apparently hasn’t been seen since.”

“Holy shit,” exclaims Grantaire. “I retract my previous statement re: boring dads?”

Enjolras looks at him, wide-eyed. “So wait, why is Javert charged with aiding and abetting. Did they know each other back then?”

Grantaire shakes his head, “I’m sure they met in Lyon, when Valjean was first opening his business up. Didn’t Javert say that that was his first post at Interpol?”

“Wait,” says Enjolras. “Do you think Javert found out? They were together before, weren’t they? And it was a bad break up. Remember when they first took us in? Do you think he, like…found out, but didn’t turn him in?”

“Holy shit,” says Grantaire, laughing helplessly. “Yeah, you’re right. That would literally explain every facet of their relationship. I always assumed the situation was like…Cold War spies who turned for each other and then buckled under the pressures of covert life, but you know what? On-the-run criminal living under a false identity falling for compromised Interpol agent fits exactly the same kind of niche vibe, am I right?”

Enjolras chokes on his tea.

“What about Myriel?” asks Grantaire, patting Enjolras absently on the back. “Where does fraud come into it?”

“Didn’t Myriel give Valjean a character witness for his initial startup loan?” Enjolras says, frowning. “You know, for the bank? I remember Courf asking about it for his business management class.”

“Would that be illegal?” Grantaire asks, frowning.

Enjolras barks out a horrified laugh. “I would have thought so. I think if you know someone’s an internationally-wanted criminal and you give a character witness to the effect that they’re some other person, who will definitely pay back your big bank loan, then…I think that constitutes fraud, yes.”

Grantaire shakes his head and scrubs his hands over his face. “Yeah okay, you might have a point with that one.”

“What does that mean for their bail conditions?” Enjolras asks Marius.

Marius frowns down at the phone. “They’ve just said that they’re still refusing to grant bail. I don’t understand why though, I mean…Valjean’s not a threat to anybody, that’s obvious.”

“I suppose it could be said that he’s shown some reluctance to engage with the law in the past,” says Grantaire, straight faced. “A lack of, er, staying power, if you will.” 

Enjolras rolls not just his eyes but his entire head around towards Grantaire. “I’m begging you to stop,” he says seriously.

“It could be the Institute,” says Grantaire, frowning as the thought occurs to him. “They’re the ones behind this. They might have someone involved who’s putting pressure on the court to not grant bail, to keep them out of the way.”

Enjolras sighs. “Then we can’t wait for them to be released. We need to move now to make a plan and get the others back.”

Grantaire nods in agreement. “How closely did you look through the mess at the others’ flats?” he asks. “Maybe we should go back to them and try to work out what’s going on?”

“Yeah,” says Enjolras. “I really didn’t look too hard. I just looked long enough to make sure there weren’t any, you know. Dead people. And ran to the next flat.”

“Okay, well. Let’s start there.”

&

They go to Bahorel and Feuilly’s flat first. They stand in front of the door, sunk below street level, and Enjolras roots through his pockets until he comes up with a set of keys. His keyring is a small, battered, ridiculously tacky pair of gold angels’ wings that Grantaire had bought him when they were fifteen—Grantaire thinks there used to be a little plastic proverb attached. There are five sets of keys on it, and Grantaire feels a momentary pang that Enjolras doesn’t have a set for the Rue Hyacinth apartment—he doesn’t even know the address.

Enjolras catches him looking and says, “When I got here before, the door was already open. But I locked up before I left. Didn’t want the neighbours to get suspicious.”

Grantaire nods in agreement and Enjolras opens the door.

It looks like a bomb has gone off in Bahorel and Feuilly’s flat. The TV is smashed, there’s a hole straight through the kitchen door, and modern art hangs limp and askew from the walls. A bookshelf has been toppled, leaving dents in the wooden floorboards, and books have spilled across the living room, their spines bent and crushed. On the couch, there’s an unrolled sleeping bag, with a rucksack on the ground beside it. 

Unthinkingly, Grantaire presses his hand to the pillow on the couch and tries, for the sake of them all, not to get torpedoed by the idea of his baby brother back in the Institute.

He runs his eyes over the carnage and compares it to the eerily silent scene at the Rue Hyacinth apartment. 

“Well, they didn’t go quietly,” he says finally.

Enjolras is kneeling down amongst the books, gently smoothing down crushed pages, stacking them neatly against the wall. He looks up and shrugs with a helpless smile. “Have they ever?”

Grantaire feels fiercely, eye-wateringly proud of his brothers in that moment. When they’d been children, they’d never been able to hit back in any way that mattered. As adults, Grantaire imagines, an angry, cornered Bahorel and Feuilly probably packed a hell of a lot more punch.

“I don’t think these people have any idea what they’re dealing with,” Grantaire says, and the corners of Enjolras’s mouth curve up, very slightly.

Eventually, after levering the bookshelf back to the wall and unplugging the broken TV, they concede that they can’t find anything in the debris that doesn’t look like it belongs there, and certainly nothing that gets them any closer to understanding what’s happened.

They get a taxi to Jehan’s flat. The quiet moments in the cab together are disorientating. There’s nothing to say that can be said in the company of the driver—at least without raising some eyebrows. Grantaire, for his part, is still spinning between the vibrating, metallic tasting fear in the back of his throat and his knee-weak relief that Enjolras, at least, is still beside him—still within his reach.

Enjolras is staring out of the window, brow furrowed. His distraction doesn’t ebb even as they leave the cab and find themselves on the pavement. He slowly withdraws his keys, eyes downcast.

“He finally gave you all a key, then?” asks Grantaire, to pull Enjolras from his reverie.

Enjolras’s lips twitch. “Eponine made him,” he says. “I don’t think he was too happy about it. He was adamant that they were only for emergencies.”

Grantaire snorts, “I think this probably counts.”

Enjolras looks up at him seriously. “Taire it’s…really bad, in there. The blood, I mean. I don’t know…It’s difficult to know what it means. If Jehan’s okay, or…”

Grantaire nods. “It’s okay,” he says, reaching for a reassuring tone in spite of his own sense of foreboding. “Lets just have a look.”

The door swings open and Grantaire’s first thought is: oh shit, that’s a lot of blood.

The rug in the middle of the living room is gruesome: previously white and fluffy, now bright red with darker patches, matted and flattened. There’s blood on the couch, and a mess of bloody footprints imprinted on the light wood floors. Blood is sprayed up the white wall of the open-plan kitchen and there’s a large kitchen knife missing from its holder on the counter. They find it where it’s spun under the sofa, bloody handprints still wrapped around it like a ghost.

Under the gory spatter is the echo of Jehan’s home—warm and multi-textured and filled with mismatched colours. Blankets and patchwork quilts are heaped upon the pulled-out futon, and there’s an old-fashioned gramophone by the window. Jehan, like most blind people, has always been able to distinguish darkness from light. It’s never occurred to Grantaire before, but as he stares at the strings and strings of fairy lights—looped around the futon and the gramophone and the walls, still slowly oscillating through light and dark—he realises that that distinction is probably a very important one to Jehan.

Grantaire clicks off the fairylights with a sigh, and turns back to Enjolras, whose arms are folded tightly across his chest.

“Do you think it’s…his?” Enjolras asks, lips pulled down at the corners.

Grantaire shakes his head, frowning. “I don’t know,” he mutters.

He crouches next to the bloody footprints on the floor—most are large and uniform, boot-like. But dancing around the edge of the rug are the red, ghostly imprints of bare feet. The stain on the rug is large and malevolent—it’s difficult to imagine anyone losing that much blood and not dying from it.

It’s also, distinctly, man-shaped.

“Jehan usually has his wings out at home, doesn’t he?” asks Grantaire.

The binders that the flock use to hold their wings in place have progressed over the years from too-small t-shirts to relatively sophisticated binders. Musichetta had come across chest binders on the internet in their early teens and had spent an entire summer designing wing-kid versions in the shape of tank tops, with flat semi-rigid panels sewn into the back.

Although they got used to the sensation of restriction after a while, the binders could hardly be called comfortable—Grantaire had once caused nerve compression throughout his entire right wing after he wore one for four days straight. Certain members of the flock have always found the binders to be too uncomfortable to wear for any prolonged period of time. Bahorel and Bossuet, whose wing-spans are enormous, both have to stretch their wings after more than a few hours of wearing one. Jehan, whose pennant nightjar wings trail long and ostentatiously to the ground, has even more discomfort to contend with.

Grantaire frowns and studies the bloody footprints again. There, amongst the delicate bare footprints that have to be Jehan’s, is the telltale swish of feathers through blood. He looks again at the mark on the rug. The blood has pooled outwards, but it is, nevertheless, a long, rectangular pool, much taller than it is wide.

“If it was Jehan who’d been hurt, and fallen, the mark would have been wider,” Grantaire says. “His wingspan is at least the width of the rug. The whole thing should be bloody, but it’s not.”

Enjolras nods slowly. “And there wasn’t any sign of anything like this anywhere else,” he agrees. “There’s no reason that they’d just…randomly use deadly force with Jehan. So it must have been Jehan who did the stabbing…” He trails off, eyes casting around the room, eyebrows raised.

“I mean, I guess we always knew Jehan was a force to be reckoned with,” Grantaire says, sharing somewhat in Enjolras’s shock.

“They’d never have managed to sneak up on him,” says Enjolras. “But maybe they thought he was the easy target. He was alone, he couldn’t see them—”

They both look around the flat.

Grantaire begins to laugh.

Enjolras looks at him, a small, wry grin on his lips. “What were you saying about the Institute not knowing who they’re dealing with?” he asks.

&

They go to Enjolras, Combeferre and Courfeyrac’s flat last. It’s small, light and airy, with a split level mezzanine kitchen that makes use of the old, high ceilings and the limited floor space. As with the Rue Hyacinth apartment, there’s nothing visibly out of place.

“I can’t work out why they didn’t fight back,” says Enjolras, staring around the living room disconsolately. “After seeing the others’ flats…even Ponine, she was completely alone and she still put up a fight. They’ve all done self defense stuff, you know? When Bahorel lost you as a boxing partner he kind of drafted everybody else into it. So…why didn’t anyone here do anything? It almost feels worse than Jehan’s place. What happened that made them walk out quietly?”

“Maybe they just got the jump on them?” Grantaire suggests. “My apartment looked the same. I assumed, you know. Joly’s chair inside makes him a bit of a target—it doesn’t have the dexterity to manoeuvre away from threats in a closed space, and he wouldn’t have been able to get into the air. And if they got Joly, well. Musichetta and Bossuet would have just walked straight out after him.”

He says it to be reassuring, but as the words leave his mouth they make him feel terrible. Musichetta’s worst nightmare had always been powerlessness in the face of Joly or Bossuet getting hurt. Walking calmly out of their home and into the back of a nameless van must have killed her.

“How would they have gotten the jump on Cos, though?” Enjolras asks, frowning absently into the middle distance. “You know her…luck. Or whatever it is. Why didn’t she just walk out of the room and happen to catch them breaking in? Why didn’t she get a good feeling about going to Tescos? Why didn’t she—” Enjolras stops abruptly, and his expression goes blank with surprise.

“The uni trip,” he says suddenly. “That was Cosette’s idea.”

Grantaire looks at him, startled. “Was it? I thought you said—”

“Courfeyrac was bugging me about it,” Enjolras says, nodding. “But Cosette was the one who brought it up, I forgot. She said she thought it was a good idea, that I’d enjoy it. And you know Coeur, any opportunity to annoy me into developing latent extroversion, he’s all over it.”

Grantaire snorts in spite of himself.

“Well, maybe it’s good then?” he offers. “Maybe she didn’t know what was going to happen, but this—right now, me and you together—was the most lucky scenario she could influence?”

Grantaire tries to think, guiltily, of any recent times when Bossuet might have altered his actions. But all that’s springing to mind is the incident two weeks ago when Bossuet had advocated they get pizza instead of Chinese food and they’d ended up getting three different human hairs on their Vegorama Deluxe.

Enjolras hugs himself slightly, hands cupping his elbows, and he looks so sad that Grantaire can’t bear it.

“Come on,” he says gently, tugging lightly at his arm. “Let’s solve the mystery, Scoob.”

He resists, with everything he has, the impulse to hold Enjolras’s hand, instead leading the way down the hall towards the first bedroom door.

Behind him, Enjolras says with quiet, mild offence, “Why do I have to be the dog?”

Grantaire chokes with laughter that he didn’t know he still had in him, and turns back to Enjolras. “C’mon who else do you want to be?” he teases. “Scooby’s the main character! I mean, I’m clearly Shaggy. You want to be Daphne? She does have killer hair.” 

Enjolras frowns thoughtfully. "I always thought Fred had clarity of purpose."

Grantaire has his mouth open to refute Enjolras’s completely invalid assessment of the Mystery Machine gang, when he gets one foot into Courfeyrac’s room and breaks off mid-word.

Every inch of the walls is covered in photographs. But, rather than looking like a scrap-book has exploded over the interior decor, Courfeyrac has managed to make the whole thing look fairly classy. The photos are uniformly square like Polaroid film, cheerful little boxes of colour, and the margins between them are straight and white.

It’s the flock’s entire life, spread out in front of him. Grantaire’s eyes scan over the photos, catching flickering glimpses of himself: twelve and shadow-eyed, sitting in the garden with Eponine, scowling at the camera, a lump of grass in his hair. Thirteen and eating breakfast in the kitchen, a cereal box on his head like a crown, grinning at someone off camera. Fourteen and hanging off a ride at Hyde Park Christmas Festival, trying to hit Bahorel’s head with a tube of Smarties. Fifteen and playing video games with Feuilly, a gummy worm hanging out his mouth. Sixteen and trying to make a giant Creme Egg in the kitchen with Cosette and Courfeyrac, covered in melted chocolate. Seventeen, at the Tate Modern with Feuilly and Combeferre. Eighteen and talking to Enjolras on the couch, feet in his lap, hands blurring through the air with the speed of his gesturing—that one was less than three months before the end, Grantaire realises.

“Here,” says Enjolras quietly, and tugs Grantaire gently by the arm until they’re in front of the stretch of wall next to Courfeyrac’s desk. “Look at this bit.”

The grid-pattern of this section is disturbed by the presence of a larger landscape photo—a postcard from Auberge Nicolas Flamel. Scattered around the postcard are photos from their Paris trip—Bahorel pretend-proposing to Grantaire as Courfeyrac weeps with laughter. Then, minutes later: Bahorel with his arms wrapped around an outraged Feuilly’s knees. Gavroche sitting astride a lion at Place de la Nation. Musichetta and Grantaire laughing, wine glasses in hand, in a sunset-warmed plaza—off-camera, Grantaire knows, Feuilly is telling a dead-pan joke about something that happened at University, and the others are howling with glee.

There are other photos too, Grantaire realises. Photos from his life in the Rue Hyacinth apartment, sourced from Instagram and the family group chat: Joly knitting with intense concentration, Bossuet holding up a cracked mug with a tragic expression, Grantaire grinning at Musichetta as she ruffles his hair, the four of them gathered around their little fibre-optic Christmas tree in their pyjamas on Christmas morning. There’s a screen-grab of a moment Grantaire recognises from their Christmas video call with the rest of the flock—his party hat is falling over his eyes and he’s laughing. Courfeyrac has hoarded these little captured moments, printed them off and stuck them on his walls, all with the same unabashed exuberance that has always marked his love for his family.

It makes grief rise hot and scalding in Grantaire’s throat, blurs his vision, and tips helpless tears onto his face.

Enjolras leans wordlessly against him, bridging the space between them, and Grantaire leans back.

“I come in here and look at these photos all the time,” says Enjolras quietly, as if he’s telling Grantaire a secret. “I know it’s a bit…weird. But what with us not talking so much...I liked knowing you were happy, somewhere. That you have a whole life going on and that you’re happy there, and that if I needed to I could just...reach out.  And you’d still be there.”

It’s as if Enjolras’s words are a mirror held up to Grantaire’s soul. How often has he tried to explain to Dahlia the comfort inherent in knowing that Enjolras was out there, in a fixed location, findable and reachable? He thinks about how he’d sometimes call Courfeyrac or Combeferre and hear the ambient sounds of their flat in the background and take obscure comfort from the knowledge that Enjolras was there. He thinks about how it had felt to call Enjolras’s phone and find him, suddenly and vertiginously, out of reach.

Enjolras continues to demonstrate his hither-to-unrevealed physic abilities. “You know, when I thought the Institute had you,” he says hesitantly. “I…I felt like a kid again, I was so frightened. I think I’d forgotten how it felt to be afraid. I mean, I’m anxious all the time, obviously, my whole brain is just a…a panic spiral, sometimes. But I’d forgotten what real, proper fear felt like. It’s not the same as being worried. It really does just…erase everything else.”

Grantaire feels a wash of surprise at the admission. Enjolras has never, in the entire span of their shared lives, made reference to any internal feelings of anxiety or panic. He’s never so much as hinted at the idea that he is anything but rigidly in control at all times. Grantaire remembers the conversations he’s had with Dahlia about good communication, and stays quiet. He has the strange impression that if they’d been having this conversation two years ago, he would have immediately contradicted Enjolras, made arguments to the effect of Enjolras never seeming that anxious to him. How could he ever have thought that that would be a kind or useful thing to say?

Enjolras obviously takes his quiet for encouragement because he continues. “You know, back at the Institute, when they took you away, it felt like…I don’t know. Like my brain went offline. Especially before the others turned up. I would do weird stuff, stuff that made no sense in retrospect, but at the time it felt so...I don’t know. So necessary. One time I got convinced that if I could count every blade of grass in the yard, they’d let you come back. And I got really worked up, because obviously I kept losing count and having to start from the beginning.”

The image of Enjolras, small and alone and terrified, desperately counting blades of grass, is like a grenade in Grantaire’s psyche. He swallows hard and tries to reach for something to say that’s neutral and encouraging, and isn’t the product of his brain screaming ‘NONONO!’ at a hundred thousand decibels.

“That sounds like a nightmare,” he says finally. “Like, an actual nightmare.  One of those ones where you’re doing something, and then you remember you can’t do it, and it’s like the dream itself remembers, and you fail. Sisyphian torture. I used to get those dreams with flying. I’d be up in the air, completely fine, and then I’d remember, you know, wait I can’t fly anymore and I’d—Well, I’d fall.”

Enjolras nods, “I had the ones—Those semi-lucid dreams, where someone’s chasing you, and every time you think about the fact that they’re chasing you, and you’re getting away, the dream remembers and they catch up, or they find you, even though it doesn’t make sense.”

“I didn’t know you had nightmares,” Grantaire blurts out, then immediately rebukes himself for sounding accusatory. He doesn’t know everything about Enjolras. Isn’t that the point?

Enjolras, thankfully, doesn’t seem to hear any underlying note of recrimination. He shrugs. “I think everyone has nightmares, don’t they? I, uh—” He frowns a little. “I had them more when you weren’t there, though.” 

Grantaire wonders if Enjolras is using the past tense to spare his feelings.

“Christ, I’m so tired,” says Enjolras suddenly. He grins ruefully at Grantaire, his eyes ringed red and shadowed. “I don’t think I can talk about dreaming anymore, I’m about to fall asleep standing up.”

Grantaire’s exhaustion is like a constant ringing noise behind his eyes, irritating and near-painful, like sunburn. “Yeah, I mean, we haven’t slept. And I don’t know about you but I’m not used to these levels of excitement in my day to day life any more.’

Enjolras makes a noise in the back of his throat. “Oh no, this might surprise you but my university life is actually wall-to-wall drama. Last week I stayed up till 1am to watch a Netflix documentary. It was intense.” 

They move into the kitchen and Grantaire makes them coffee to distract himself from the rising tide of tenderness he feels for Enjolras.

&

Enjolras nudges open a door off the living room, and leads the way inside. There’s a red bedspread on the bed, and an aged, framed poster of the universal declaration of human rights on the wall. Grantaire makes an educated guess as to the room’s owner.

Enjolras sits down heavily on the bed and blinks up at him with tired eyes, fingers curled protectively around his coffee.

“Sorry,” he says, mouth curling down. “I just need a moment.”

Grantaire sighs. “Yeah, me too,” he admits.

The room feels oddly familiar to Grantaire—probably because a lot of the stuff in it had previously inhabited their shared childhood bedroom. There’s a chest of drawers, a desk with a laptop and a few pens, a few framed photos, and a bookcase filled mostly with non-fiction books and textbooks. The jacket folded across the desk chair and the converse at the bottom of the bed are both clothes Enjolras wore regularly as a teenager. The t-shirt sticking out of the laundry basket is dark green, and heart-snaggingly Grantaire’s. The bedside table is empty except for a lamp and a postcard of The Defender Of Time—it’s placement, right at the edge of the table closest to the bed, makes Grantaire achingly sad.

He joins Enjolras and they sit sideways on the bed, their backs to the wall, their lower legs and feet dangling off the edge. There’s a strange, half-foot of space between them: too close for normal people but nowhere near close enough for them.

“I don’t think we’ll find much in here,” Enjolras says wearily. “There’s nothing out of place.”

Grantaire nods but doesn’t say anything, just stares at the light grey carpet under his shoes and wonders what this room would look like right now if the Institute hadn’t made its move last night. Would Enjolras have been in here reading? In the living room with Courfeyrac and Combeferre? Out with other friends? It feels strange that Enjolras has a whole life and bedroom apart from him. Not necessarily bad; just strange. Although he knows that Enjolras has an entire fully-realised existence apart from him, it’s easy for him to imagine Enjolras frozen at the exact moment that he’d left him. But this is not the same Enjolras he’d left behind. And he is not the same Grantaire who left. 

What would he be doing, if nothing had changed? Getting up from a long, lazy morning in bed to tell Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet the good news about his promotion? Thinking about which cafe they could safely go to for celebratory brunch without being stampeded by tourists?

“This time yesterday I was in a dumpster,” Grantaire observes distantly.

“You probably deserved it,” Enjolras says mildly and immediately.

Grantaire, taken completely off guard, cackles with laughter.

The atmosphere between them up til now has been infused by strained formality, the echoes of their last argument and two year estrangement sitting like oil on water over their baseline, bone-deep awareness of each other. When they were children they’d gone from screaming at each other to clinging, koala-like, from each other’s limbs within the space of a few breaths—a reflex Grantaire thinks was probably born of a complete inability to healthily talk through their problems or take time for themselves. Now it feels like, for the first time, they’re at an emotional distance from each other that doesn’t immediately put them in danger of each other’s elbows.

“Yesterday feels like it happened about fifty years ago,” says Enjolras with a sigh, staring blindly at the bookcase in front of him.

Grantaire snorts gently. “You’re telling me, I got a promotion yesterday! Talk about emotional whiplash.”

“You got a promotion?!” Enjolras turns to face him, his face alight with a joy so genuine, so immediate and reflexive, that Grantaire’s breath catches.

“Yeah,” he says, and he can’t stop the soft smile that warms his face. “My boss was gonna make me a real PI! Get me my training and everything!”

“That’s amazing!” says Enjolras, beaming at him. “Congratulations!”

Grantaire laughs. “Thanks. I’m not sure if that offer will hold up to Montparnasse living on his sofa though.”

Enjolras’s smile slides off his face like an avalanche.

He’s silent for a long moment, staring down at his own twisting fingers. Then he takes a deep breath, and—tensed as if he thinks Grantaire might slap him—says, “Something happened between you and Montparnasse when we were children. Didn’t it?”

Grantaire goes cold. 

He’s already given Enjolras a brief outline of his run-in with Montparnasse in the Rue Hyacinth apartment. He’s surprised Enjolras is pulling at loose strings—in the past, most of the big things in their life had gone unspoken, and unasked about. They had been eternally cautious of tipping the boat too far, of upsetting the other to the point that they couldn’t come back from it—it was why they’d had a thousand conversations about Grantaire truanting and none about the manner in which they’d left the Institute. The little stuff was safer, or at least that’s what they’d thought.

Grantaire has held on to the secret of what he’d done to Montparnasse—and of what Enjolras had unwittingly done to him—for so long that he doesn’t know how to part with it. It feels woven into his DNA. His brain treacherously tries to snake its way out of the situation, asking, “Is now the time to do this? When our family is missing? When the whole world feels like it’s on fire?”  But in truth, he’s sick of keeping secrets that have curdled and gone hard inside him. If Enjolras is brave enough to ask the question, it feels only fair that he should meet him halfway

“You know that Montparnasse was at the Institute before you, right?” Grantaire asks.

Enjolras, studying him seriously, nods.

“We were…well, we were really young. It’s difficult to remember a time when you weren’t there. But I know that before you came…I was pretty much by myself. It was just me and the razers.”

He can’t bring himself to look Enjolras in the eye. He stares at Enjolras’s fingers instead, clasped neatly in front of him.

“Me and Montparnasse were…friends. Kind of. Not like…me and you kind of friends, or even like, you know, me and Combeferre friends. We were just…mates. We hung out sometimes. Less, after you arrived, but still on okay-terms. Then they started training me up, teaching me self-defence and how to use a gun and stuff…and Montparnasse was there. Phillips said at one point that the long-term goal was to sell us to the highest bidder. Use us as weapons.”

Even out of the corner of his eye, Grantaire sees that information go through Enjolras like electricity. He stiffens; his fingers go white.

“When I’d…come up with the plan, to get us out of the Institute, I’d factored Montparnasse in,” Grantaire continues. “He was as keen to get out as any of us, and he’d always had a lot of sway with the other razers. He could have gotten out himself, even, but he was worried that they’d use me to bring him back in.”

“You wouldn’t have done that,” Enjolras says, leaping to Grantaire’s own defense with an immediacy that hurts.

Grantaire looks up and meets Enjolras’s eye with some effort. “Yes, I would,” he says, with quiet certainty.

He sees understanding hit Enjolras like a wave; and then it’s Enjolras’s turn to look down at his hands.

“When you and the others made your move, I ran to get Montparnasse, to help him get out,” Grantaire says. This is going to hurt Enjolras horribly, he realises too late. He’s slinging some of his own guilt off his back and handing it to Enjolras to carry. It’s selfish, and ten years too late. But it’s the truth, and that has to count for something. In his peripheral vision he sees Enjolras start to see the shape of it, eyes widening with horror.

“I found him,” Grantaire continues. “But they’d made improvements to the security. We were walled off from the wing that held the razers. I was trying to work out a way to get him out, or around, or anything—but then Gav arrived, and said—”

“Enjolras is hurt, you’ve got to come now,” Enjolras finishes softly.

“Yes,” says Grantaire.

“And you left him,” says Enjolras.

“Yes.”

“And you found out I’d lied.”

“Yes.”

“And then I pushed you off the building and made you leave him behind.”

“Yes.”

Enjolras stares at him, his face perfectly expressionless.

Grantaire feels the impulse to open his mouth and offer excuses for Enjolras, but quashes them. He needs to give Enjolras time to have a reaction before he starts trying to leverage the guilt off his back for him.

“I don’t know how to apologise to you,” Enjolras says finally, with frank, quiet honesty. “I don’t know how to—” He breaks off, and his lip wobbles for a second before he clamps down on it and sets his jaw. “I lied because it was easier. And I forced you to do something you didn’t want to do, because it was easier than trying to work out why you didn’t want to do it. And I’d spent…literally our entire childhoods, railing against people for doing things to us that we didn’t want. I knew it was wrong. I just thought it was more acceptable, somehow, if I did it to you. Because I love you, so…obviously nothing I do can cause you pain, or be cruel.” Enjolras rolls his eyes, a surprising bite of self-mockery slipping into his tone.

He takes a deep breath, blinking a little faster than normal, and continues, “I’m sorry. Unreservedly. I’m so sorry. You don’t have to forgive me.”

Maybe it’s the quietness and sincerity in the moment between them, but for the first time in years, Grantaire—rather than thinking about it in emotive, bitter abstracts—actually plays the scene out in his memory. That last, horrible seconds of their escape from the Institute, in full HD sound and colour:  Enjolras, twelve years old, confused and panicked and terrified, above all else. A simple, petty lie, and small, childish shove.

“You were twelve,” says Grantaire, meeting his eye. “Of course I forgive you, Enjolras. You were twelve.”

And like that, the hard, sharp, volcanic crust that’s coated the outside of this horrible secret flakes away, scattering into some motionless wind. What’s left behind is raw and wounded and tender—a remorse that takes his breath away, and a deep, deep sadness that he, Grantaire, at twelve years old, had had to make such a terrible choice. 

Enjolras is watching him carefully, and Grantaire’s sorrow is reflected in Enjolras’s eyes, welling with tears. “You were twelve too, you know,” Enjolras says, so gently it hurts.

“I did my fair share of lying,” Grantaire says, blinking away the blurriness, unwilling to let Enjolras’s comfort soothe away all of his regrets. “In the Institute. It’s not like I always told you the truth.”

“Oh, really,” says Enjolras with dry humour, “I hadn’t noticed.”

“By omission, and explicitly,” Grantaire continues, shooting Enjolras a sardonic glance. “Sure, I was worried the Institute would overhear us. But I could have made some effort to tell you what was going on. I just—I always wanted to spare you the ugly stuff.”

“I know you lied, Grantaire,” says Enjolras with a sigh. “We both did, constantly. Explicitly, sometimes, but mostly, yeah, as you said. By omission. We both thought we were sparing each other.”

“At least you grew out of it,” says Grantaire bitterly. “I’m still keeping secrets if it makes my life easier.” His stomach twists—this is harder, in some ways, than the story about Montparnasse. This is a more recent, more serious lapse in judgement.

He relays to Enjolras, as briefly as possible, the story of Mardisoir, of her disappearance, and reappearance, of her case regarding a missing pregnant woman, and her story about a shadowy government body called the Institute. 

He expects Enjolras to be angry—at the very least, some kind of censorious reproach—but when he’s finally done, and he hasn’t got a single untold secret left within him, all Enjolras does is shrug.

“That’s it?” Grantaire asks flatly.

Enjolras laughs, “What do you want me to say?”

“How about: Grantaire that was a bit not good?” Grantaire asks, more than a little indignant.

Enjolras snorts and parrots back faithfully, “Okay, Grantaire. That was a bit not good.”

“Come on!”

Enjolras shakes his head and rolls his eyes. “Taire, stop trying to use me as a stick to beat yourself with. Montparnasse himself said it had nothing to do with your involvement in the agency. It was just a completely bizarre coincidence!”

“It could just as easily not have been!” says Grantaire. “I could very easily have been the one who tipped them off that we were still around. And I didn’t warn anyone!”

“Well, I’m sure you won’t do it again,” says Enjolras sagely.

Grantaire stares at him in mute outrage and Enjolras laughs again, in disbelief. “Grantaire I am not going to chastise you for a thing you could have done but actually didn’t do, okay? We have enough issues to work out without me getting at you for things you aren’t actually responsible for!”

Grantaire scowls at the ground, a little sulkily; his last revelation had been a lot more dramatic.

Enjolras tilts his head and looks at him, slightly more seriously. “You know you’re not responsible for this, right? None of this is your fault. Even the stuff with Montparnasse when we were kids. Maybe things would have worked out differently if you hadn’t made the moves you did, but who knows if they would have worked out better? What if we’d all gotten stuck in the Institute, what if some of us had died? If you could go back in time and change what you did, would you take that risk? I’m not sure I would, even knowing what I do now. Gavroche grew up—pretty much his whole childhood—in a house full of people who loved him unconditionally, who gave him everything he needed and wanted. He has parents. He barely remembers the Institute. Would you give that up?”

“You know I wouldn’t,” says Grantaire darkly. “That just proves that I’m a self-centered asshole, doesn’t it? Fuck Montparnasse if my family are okay. Fuck all those other kids.”

Enjolras gazes at him, eyes soft with remorse and understanding. “But don’t you see? If you don’t know what you could have done differently to come up with an outcome that would have saved everybody, that means it’s not your fault. The people to blame are the adults who tried to re-enact the fucking Nuremberg trials on us—they could have stopped the whole thing at any time! You know that right? This isn’t news to you? You were twelve. You are not to blame for the ones we left behind. The fact that you survived is not an indictment of your guilt, it’s a mark of your strength and, to be quite honest, our ridiculously good luck.”

“Montparnasse doesn’t see it that way,” mutters Grantaire.

“Doesn’t he?” asks Enjolras, and his gaze is direct and as close to confrontational as he’s gotten yet. “Are you sure? Because I didn’t know Montparnasse well, but I wouldn’t have called him helpless, even when we were children. Do you really think he needed you to help him disappear last night?”

Grantaire frowns, “What are you saying? Montparnasse doesn’t forgive me, if you think he’s the forgiving type you’re—”

“I’m saying if Montparnasse wanted you dead, you’d be dead,” says Enjolras with finality. “Nothing else makes sense. He has no reason to keep you alive. And he doesn’t have to forgive you, by the way, to understand that you are not the enemy. He doesn’t have to forgive you to understand that the actions of a terrified twelve year old are not necessarily worth his time or vengeance. He’s always been pretty smart, hasn’t he? Grantaire what makes you think he honestly gives a shit about you?”

Grantaire gapes at him, speechless. He can’t refute any of Enjolras’s points. While he’d been standing in the dark Rue Hyacinth apartment, his stunned brain had been too busy trying to work out why he wasn’t dead yet to question, explicitly, why wasn’t he dead? But in retrospect, Enjolras is completely right—he’s of no use to Montparnasse, really. And Montparnasse’s manner last night had been strange—distant and careful. He remembers Montparnasse’s eyes on the photograph of the flock as children, thoughtful.

Enjolras smiles at him ruefully, and breaks through Grantaire’s reverie. “When did we get so turned around?” he asks. “I thought I was the control freak. Why do you think you’re responsible for the world turning? You told me this, back at the Institute, remember? We were victims. We are survivors. We are not complicit in their actions.”

They’re silent for a few beats, both looking down at the bed spread, turning the conversation over in their heads.

“I regret it, you know,” says Enjolras, picking at a stray thread with his nail. “Killing that kid. The razer.”

Grantaire goes still.

Enjolras’s lips thin. “I didn’t… I’ve not spoken about it to anyone. Ever. Everyone was so angry with me, back when I did it, and I couldn’t work out why. I thought they were just being…weak. That sounds horrible to say, now. But I thought that they couldn’t cope with the ugly necessity. I thought they were being naive. I’d always seen the razers as being on the side of the Invigilators. They were bigger than us, older than us, mostly—and that made a difference, I don’t know why. I mean they were obviously just kids but a few years makes so much difference when you’re young. I never saw them as victims, only as the aggressors. I thought they had the power—or some of it, at least. Obviously, I was wrong. They were children too. If I say ‘we weren’t complicit’ that has to mean they weren’t complicit either…but I killed one of them for it.”

It’s impossible for Grantaire to parse what he sees on Enjolras’s face. His shoulders are slumped and his hands are shaking, ever so slightly.

“I’ll never be able to take that back,” he says simply. “I stole his life from him.” He looks up, and the depth of pain in his eyes echoes in Grantaire’s bones. 

“You thought of him as on-par with the Invigilators,” Grantaire says. “And to be honest, I don’t particularly disagree with killing any of them.”

“I had a responsibility, when I was holding a gun in my hand and pointing it at another child, to think more critically about where the power really lay,” says Enjolras, with the same ringing certainty that Grantaire loves so much about him. “And not just coast through on the tails of righteous fury.”

Grantaire can’t think of anything to say in return. It’s not his place to forgive or not forgive Enjolras for this. And he thinks that, regardless, Enjolras will never forgive himself.  Some things simply can’t be redeemed. So he nods, and they’re quiet for another spell. They both sip from their cooling coffees.

Something from Enjolras’s words keeps recurring on Grantaire, and he thinks that he’ll never find a better time to ask than now, when their souls are as bared to each other as they’ve ever been.

“You said, earlier,” he starts, hesitantly. “That you felt anxious all the time. When we were kids. I never—I didn’t know that.” He doesn’t ask a direct question—he’s not sure what it is he wants to know, in all honesty. He just wants to understand.

There’s a beat, in which Enjolras stares vacantly into space, chewing on his lips.

Then he says, with careful deliberation, “I felt so helpless. All the time.”

From the way he says it, from the way the shape of the words leave his mouth, the way they curl around the catch in his throat, Grantaire can tell Enjolras has thought hard about them, has given them no small amount of his incisive and exhaustive consideration.

He continues, “I felt so, so powerless. Constantly. I felt like no matter what I did, nothing would ever change, and I hated it. And I don’t know why that affected me so much more than it affected you. I suppose, maybe if you had the ability to leave the whole time—maybe you didn’t feel powerless so much as you did trapped. Or...maybe you’re just inherently more okay with the concept of not being able to change things. I don’t know, I don’t want to speak for you.  But it meant that I got...well, when I did have some kind of control over a situation, it needed to be complete. And when I felt like I was losing control of a situation I would just completely unravel—and I thought I was being rational, but I wasn’t. I mean, you know what I was like, I was intolerable. And even once we’d left the Institute, and I ostensibly had some control over my life, it never felt like enough. I kept feeling like everything was always, always spinning away from me. I kept feeling powerless, and I kept trying to wrestle everything back under control, and I kept…failing.”


 


Grantaire is so pole-axed by the casual mention of his ability to leave the Institute that he can’t think about any of the other revelations. He’d kept that secret for so long that it had crystallised into the bedrock of full-blown mental illness, and when it had eventually slipped out, he’d immediately fled the country. He hasn’t spoken about it to anyone since, not even a vague allusion to Dahlia. All these years later the shame of it still sticks in his throat—he’s never even brought it up with any of the other members of his family, even though he knows he owes them an enormous apology. And apparently Enjolras has just…accepted it. As easily as he’s accepted all the other terrible things that Grantaire’s done. 

He tries to refocus on Enjolras, and gets tripped up by his description of himself as intolerable.

“I never thought you were intolerable,” Grantaire says, offended.

Enjolras shoots him a quick, dry look and Grantaire laughs.

“Okay, I think we both had our moments, but I was definitely worse!”

Enjolras shrugs and rubs his hands over his face. “You were trying to tell me how you were feeling, and I wasn’t listening. I mean neither of us have ever been good at articulating how we’re feeling or listening to each other’s answers, so I can see why we had problems. Christ, I didn’t even know what I was feeling, most of the time.”

Grantaire snorts. “Yeah no one’s ever accused me of being particularly good at self-reflection. And my communication skills have never been stellar.”

“You know,” says Enjolras, with the slightest hint of hesitance. “My therapist has a theory about that.”

Grantaire’s conversation with Joly regarding therapists comes washing back over him, and he bites down hard on any imminent surprise that Enjolras sees a therapist. He possibly leans a little too hard into his politely curious expression, because Enjolras sends him a dry look in return, lips curling up at the edges.

“She’s called Dr Simplice,” Enjolras continues. “She is…completely bloody relentless, honestly, I hate her. We argue constantly and she has this…horrible and uncanny sense for when people are lying to her, which is incredibly annoying. But she makes me talk about...well, everything, pretty much. How I’m feeling, and why, and she keeps asking why until I’m down at some…horrible embarrassing reason at the heart of it all.”

Enjolras glances up and flushes, very slightly, along the lines of his cheekbones.

“Anyway, she says that one of the reasons children learn to talk is to express what they need and want. She thinks that because we never had anyone listening to our needs or wants—because we would never even have considered making requests with any expectation of getting them fulfilled—we never learned how to…to talk about what we needed. And worse than that, we were actively disincentivised from talking to each other about important stuff—we were so scared of being overheard! Your wings—watching what they did to your wings, knowing the whole time it was my fault…it was the single worst experience of my entire life. Nothing else has ever come close to that. And I’d imagine it was pretty far down your list too. And that happened because we were overheard—not just because they overheard us talking about escape, but because they overheard us talking to each other. Because they knew how important we were to one another.”

Even though one of the very first conversations he’d had with Dahlia had been about his lack of communication skills—even though he’s ostensibly spent two years trying to improve them—this line of reasoning is a complete revelation to Grantaire. Now that he knows to look for it, he can see the dangerous belief etched into his own psyche, recurring like a DNA pattern. Communication is dangerous. Letting people know what you need makes you vulnerable and gets you hurt. He can’t believe that he’s never questioned where these unspoken assumptions came from, even while he’s been battling them back in the name of Psychological Health.

“Jesus Christ,” says Grantaire, with a disbelieving laugh. “I hope you’re paying your therapist a shit ton of money, that is…How is that so true? How have I never noticed that before?”

“I told you she was annoying,” says Enjolras, rolling his eyes. “I’d been in the room about five minutes before she popped out with that one.”

Grantaire laughs.

“She also thinks that in place of normal, constructive communication, we developed these…maladaptive coping strategies,” continues Enjolras. “We’d assume we knew what the other was thinking. Remember when we were really young? And we could have whole conversations just by looking at each other? But then when our lives got more complicated, or, I guess, when our thoughts and feelings got more complicated, we kept acting like we just… knew what we were both thinking. And it was terrible, it caused so many problems.”

Grantaire nods. “My therapist—”

Enjolras does a much worse job of concealing his surprise than Grantaire, and Grantaire laughs.

“Hah! Bet ya didn’t see that one coming. Yes, I have a therapist and she is delightful.”

“That seems unfair,” says Enjolras.

“She gives me sweets.”

“That’s definitely unfair,” Enjolras says, scowling.

Grantaire grins. “She—her name is Dahlia—she asked me how often you and me, when we were younger, would just…sit down and talk to each other. How often we sincerely conveyed how we were feeling. And you know I honestly couldn’t remember a single time? We just…had other ways of talking to each other.”

“Very imprecise ways,” mutters Enjolras.

“You mean having zero personal space and arguing constantly and always thinking the worst of each other isn’t good communication?” asks Grantaire, with faux-disbelief.

Enjolras snorts ungracefully. “Who’d have thunk it.”

Grantaire laughs at this little Grantaire-ism getting repeated back at him and Enjolras smiles.

“The bad faith was probably the worst bit,” Grantaire says thoughtfully. “You know Hanlon’s razor?”

“Never attribute to malice that which is adequately explained by stupidity,” says Enjolras, nodding.

“Don’t you think we just…assumed malice? A lot? Like, yeah, we assumed we knew what we were both thinking, and that wasn’t good, but we compounded it by never giving each other the benefit of the doubt? Like, you’d shout at me, and I’d just assume that you were being mean on purpose because I annoyed you and you wanted me to be upset. Which is…well. Unfair is probably an understatement. But I never knew that you, like…worried about stuff. Or, I mean, obviously I knew that you experienced worry, as an emotion, but I never processed your, uh, baseline vibration, as like. Anxiety, or whatever.”

“But neither did I!” Enjolras exclaims. “I mean, it’s not like with Joly. I don’t have panic attacks or need lots of reassurance or worry about…diseases, or whatever. Reassurance annoyed me! I thought I was being perfectly logical! Dr Simplice literally had to say to me, like, ‘you know most people don’t go around obsessively thinking about the most outlandish worst case scenario that could befall them at any given moment and how they’re going to counteract it when it inevitably arises’ for me to even consider that the way I think isn’t normal? Or remotely healthy? I walked around with a stomach ache! For eight years! And I thought it was just a necessary part of the human experience!”

They both laugh at that, semi-hysterically, because isn’t that it? Right at the heart of it? They have no idea what constitutes the human experience. No one ever taught them how to be people, so now they’re learning the hard way, through brutal, ridiculous, trial and error.

Enjolras’s laughter subsides, and he slips into seriousness again. “I mean, I was just as bad with you,” he says, with a frown. “Speaking of bad faith. You were clearly going through some shit. And I knew enough about what was going on in your head to know something was going wrong. I mean, you had depression, in retrospect, you clearly had depression. But I was standing too close to see the pattern and I didn’t even know what depression was. All I knew was that I was terrified for you, but I didn’t know how to explain how worried I was, or even how to think about it for myself, so I just…assumed malice, like you say. Assumed that you were being lazy, or deliberately mean, or that you wanted to hurt me. That if you just tried, then I wouldn’t have to be constantly freaking out all the time, and everything could go back to…I don’t know. Some golden, imaginary halcyon age when we were younger and things were easier between us. As if that was fair. As if you were somehow the sole arbitrator for my happiness. As if that’s a reasonable expectation to put on someone. Anyone.”

Enjolras appears to run out of hot, scalding words at this point, or maybe he just runs out of breath. He looks like he might cry; Grantaire feels like he might join him.

“I was a little shit,” says Grantaire bluntly. “I just felt so trapped! I felt cornered in, on all sides, by people who cared about me—you most of all. And I didn’t know how to explain…it’s so difficult to describe depression. I think most people kind of assume it’s just being sad. Which, yes, I mean I was sad. And angry, and tired too. But that’s not what it felt like. It felt like…fear. Not panic, more like… the kind of fear you get when you’re little and you wake up and you think there’s someone standing over your bed. Or when you miss a step going down the stairs. It feels like hollow and empty and nothing. And there’s no room for anything else. And all I wanted to do was tear myself to pieces, or run away, or die. And I couldn’t. Because I couldn’t leave you. I couldn’t leave you. I never wanted to break that promise to you, I swear to God. That promise was all I held onto for the longest time.”

He’s crying now, fully, and he feels ridiculous for it. He went most of his teenage years without so much as a sniffle and in the space of forty-eight hours he’s become dangerously dehydrated through sheer eye-water exodus.

Enjolras runs a thumb under Grantaire’s eye with unspeakable gentleness. Grantaire notices Enjolras is crying too, tear tracts shining on his face.

“You made the right choice when you left,” Enjolras says, voice soft. “You know that, right? You did the best thing you could for both of us. You’ve always been the smarter one, you knew it needed to be done. I know it hurt like…nothing else. I know it was terrible. But look at you, look at your life. I’m so fucking proud of you, Grantaire.” His voice breaks on the last sentence. Grantaire didn’t know he could feel this much and not die from it.

“I hurt you so much,” Grantaire chokes out through his tears. “Not just when I left. All those years. I was so mean. Sometimes I think I did want to hurt you. I love you so much and I didn’t want to leave you, but I was so angry that that meant I had to stay alive. And then when I tried to do the right thing I hurt you even more.”

“I was mean too!” exclaims Enjolras. “But what we did to each other, it didn’t come from malice. I was angry and mean because I love you and it hurt me when you’d hurt yourself, and when you’d lash out at me. But it wasn’t right. It wasn’t fair. I owed you kindness. I owe you so much—my whole life—but most of all, I owe you that.”

Grantaire is full on ugly-crying, now. Enjolras is too, but he still manages to press on—his eyelashes are dark and clumped together with tears, but his gaze is fierce.

“I’m sorry,” Enjolras says. “Is what I’m trying to get at, I’m so sorry. I know we were both idiots and I know we both made mistakes. But if I ever made you feel like you weren’t doing your absolute goddamn best, if I ever implied that you are anything other than the person I admire most in the entire world, or that I would be anything other than completely lost without you, I want you to know how sorry I am.”

Grantaire wrenches Enjolras into a hug, tight enough that it feels like they’re one, strange, trembling, four-winged body, and murmurs endless damp apologies of his own into Enjolras’s neck.

&

They drink a cup of tea, because at this point it seems like the only recourse left to them. Grantaire’s not sure how he thought he’d feel after unhitching himself from decades of unverbalised trauma, but he didn’t expect to feel like he’d ascended to a new and hitherto-undiscovered level of exhaustion. He ‘checks in with himself’, another Dahlia favourite, to see how he’s feeling. His body replies with: tired, sore, terrified, tired, embarrassed, tired, sad, kinda-happy, hungry, in love, tired, angry, and dehydrated, before he shuts off the line of communication, reasoning that that’s quite e-fucking-nough to be getting on with.

They go into Combeferre’s room last, despair sitting heavy on their shoulders. The room is as untouched as the rest of the house, the sun is low in the sky, and they’re no closer to finding out where their family is. They’re both restless with the wasted time, and dragged down by their own despondency and exhaustion.

They make a token check of the room. There’s books lined up along the walls and stacked next to the bed, framed photos of the flock on most flat surfaces, a charging laptop on the desk. There’s a cup of tea next to the laptop, milk curdling into a skin on top. The mug is a stupid dorky one with the chemical formula for caffeine on it.

For some reason, the untouched cup of tea is a source of abject despair to Grantaire’s barely-functioning brain—it roots him, suddenly and immovably, to the spot. Combeferre was here, and then he wasn’t. All his plans for the research project he and Cosette were working on, his dinner arrangements, his classes for next week. Even his cup of tea. The Institute, once again, hitting their lives like a freight train, obliterating everything in its wake. Of all the roiling emotions in Grantaire’s head right now, his anger leaps suddenly to prominence, and he’s filled with a blind, righteous fury that someone dared to interrupt Combeferre’s cup of tea, and his entire careful, happy life, that he’d worked so hard to build.

Enjolras is at his elbow. “Are you alright?” he asks. Given that Grantaire is having a staring contest with a mug, he’s not entirely sure Enjolras sounds concerned enough.

He moves forwards without thinking, and picks up the mug from the desk. He’s going to put the tea down the sink, and then, somehow, he’s going to find out who took his brother, and he’s going to fucking kill them.

Enjolras squawks, smacks Grantaire’s arm, and spills an entire mug of cold tea down the front of Grantaire’s t-shirt. Grantaire experiences the sensation of his soul hitting rock bottom as he stands, dripping with stale milk, and opens his mouth to explain to Enjolras that forthwith he’ll be retiring from his position as a human being.

But Enjolras isn’t paying the slightest bit of attention to him. He’s staring at Combeferre’s desk, and it doesn’t take long for Grantaire to realise what he’s looking at. 

In Cosette’s curly handwriting, in the neat solar circle of Combeferre’s tea stain, is a series of random letters and numbers.

“What the fuck is that?” Grantaire asks seriously. His hands are still cupped around what little of the cold tea he’d managed to catch. It drips steadily onto his trainers.

Enjolras looks at him and his expression is electric, striking. “It’s why they didn’t put up a fight!” he says, with absolute certainty. “Cosette clearly had other priorities...she wanted to make sure she got this to us.”

“But what do we do with it?” Grantaire asks. He thinks Enjolras is right, that this is probably it, Cosette’s last message to them—one last shout into the void from the luckiest human on earth. But his foggy, tired brain can’t join the dots.

Some of the vibrant hope drains from Enjolras’s face, leaving a thoughtful frown. “I think we should ask Marius,” he says. “I think he’ll know what to do.”

Grantaire raises his eyes to the heavens. “God fucking help us.”

&

 

“It’s Eponine’s laptop password,” says Marius immediately, squinting down at the series of characters they’d carefully transcribed onto a piece of scrap paper in Combeferre’s bedroom.

They’re back in Marius, Eponine and Cosette’s flat, eating Subway sandwiches for dinner.

“Ponine not one for Password1, then?” asks Grantaire, spilling Hearty Italian bread crumbs down the side of the couch cushion. He hastily tries to brush them away and succeeds in breaking the crumbs into smaller, more insidious pieces. His dumb, sleep-starved brain elects to give it up as a bad job.

The rest of the flat is much tidier than before, to an almost frightening degree. Marius has clearly spent the afternoon without much else to occupy himself. For much of the past half hour he’s been buzzing about them like a nervous, erratic bee, and at the first hint of something to be done, he immediately leaps up from the couch and rushes out of the room.

He returns moments later with Eponine’s laptop. “Here,” he says, passing it to Enjolras. “She’s been keeping it in the safe recently.”

Enjolras sets the laptop down on the coffee table in front of him, but frowns at Marius instead of opening it.

“She’s been what?” Grantaire asks, certain he’s misheard.

“Keeping it in the safe?” Marius says, brow creased. “I know, it’s weird, right? She wouldn’t tell me why, and Cosette seemed to think it wasn't anything to worry about, so I kind of let it slide." He frowns down at the ground for a moment and then says, with a surprising amount of insight, "I probably shouldn't have let it slide."

Grantaire and Enjolras exchange a wordless glance, then reach simultaneously for the laptop.

It opens to a login screen with two icons. One says 'Ponine', and the icon is a small cartoon of an angry cat with distinctly Eponine-ish features (Grantaire had drawn it what feels like a hundred years ago, but he hadn't known she'd kept it). The other icon is blank and the text under it reads simply, 'SOS'.

Grantaire drags the cursor over the icon and clicks it. Marius reads off the series of numbers and letters from the scrap of paper. Grantaire taps them into the password box, then clicks ‘Enter’.

There’s a brief spinning circle, then the laptop loads onto the desktop, and a series of icons. The one in the centre of the desktop says START HERE.

It loads, shockingly, on a video of Eponine at her desk. There's soft, cool-toned daylight filtering through from the window behind the camera, striping across her chest like a seatbelt. Her hair is in the same undercut Grantaire's seen on her Instagram recently, with the same bright magenta streak though the top. She looks uncomfortable to be on camera, as she always does on their video calls.

She shifts restlessly, glances over her shoulder and then back to the screen. "So if you're seeing this, I guess that means the Institute got us." Her mouth twists up in something angry, and viciously sad. "Which I guess was kind of inevitable. If Cos and Chetta are to be believed." She scowls briefly at nothing, over the top of the camera, then refocuses.

"So the long and fucking short of it is...Chetta thinks things are gonna break bad, and Cos agrees. Well, Cosette has a 'bad feeling', which, we all know how that ends. They didn't want to freak everyone out about something that they're both pretty confident can't be stopped, and they said it would ‘make things worse’ anyway, so they decided we shouldn’t tell anyone.” Eponine’s clear and irritable opinions re: withholding the truth are evident on her face.  

Grantaire doesn't wonder how this pledge of psychic silence had resulted in only Eponine being looped in. Even if she wasn't always aware when people were lying to her—she, Cosette and Musichetta have always had a strange kind of covenant. They might be as different as three people could possibly be, with entirely different sets of priorities and loyalties, but they’re also the only three girls in a group that otherwise consists of ten boys, and as far as Grantaire could work out, that has always seemed to mean something important.

“We collected as much information as possible," continues Eponine, looking serious. "Everything Cos and Chetta could wring out of their weird little brains. Everything I could find online. Grantaire—"

Grantaire starts, and next to him, Enjolras turns to look at him in surprise.

"It should be Grantaire and Enjolras watching this." Eponine squints at the camera, like she can peer out of the past and meet their eyes. Grantaire feels like he's suddenly swallowed a shard of glass. "That's who they thought it would be. So hopefully it's you guys. Hopefully we got the password to you, somehow. Anyway, Grantaire, I know you do PI stuff in Paris. Maybe you’ll have contacts that can help or something, I don’t know. Essentially, what we've worked out is that the Institute is still active, and that they’re kidnapping pregnant women from big cities in Europe, mostly London and Paris.  We don’t know where the Institute is, but I’ve collected all my research so far—some of it must lead somewhere." Eponine breaks off and bites her thumbnail, an old habit Grantaire knows she'd fought hard to shake.

"All the info we have is in the other files on the desktop. I hope it's enough—" Eponine bites her thumbnail again, viciously, and scowls. "I'm sorry," she says abruptly. "I'm really sorry. Cos and Chetta were adamant this was the best way to go about it. I, for the record, didn't want to lie to everyone. I advocated just...running away to the Bahamas, but apparently that wouldn't have worked." She rolls her eyes. "Anyway, this is weird. We believe in you, you've got this. Come find us already."

The video ends abruptly, and Grantaire and Enjolras sit and stare at the screen in the silence that it leaves behind. Grantaire reaches out and clicks on the icon again without thinking much beyond his overwhelming, avalanching desire to see Eponine's face again.

Missing people is like a toothache, but this feels like a root canal without anaesthetic—it’s agonising.

Beside him, Enjolras has curled forwards over his stomach, as if mortally wounded. Grantaire reaches for him, he's not sure with what intent, and Enjolras grabs his hand.

They don't let go, and they watch the video again, and start to make their arduous way through the other files, and they don't let go.

&

 

By the time the laptop clock reads eleven pm, Grantaire and Enjolras have just about hit the end of their ability to process written words. Eponine has collected a lot of data, and Musichetta has described the new Institute as it has appeared to her in her dreams, but there’s nothing as simple as a series of coordinates, or a flashing arrow. They give up for the night, and start to make noises about finding somewhere to sleep.

Marius hesitantly asks if they'd like to join him in staying the night at his grandfather's house, and assures them, before they can so much as open their mouths to respond, that there's plenty of space, and plenty to eat, and his grandfather is visiting friends in Sussex anyway. He says all this without appearing to breathe, and with a bright, panicked look in his big blue eyes.

Enjolras and Grantaire glance at each other, and wordlessly agree to do the merciful thing and not abandon Marius to his spinning thoughts, even if it does mean that the time between them and unconsciousness is longer than they’d have hoped.

Marius is so happy about their agreement that he gets their fairly simple tea preferences hopelessly mixed up, dumping Enjolras's five sugars and milk into Grantaire's green tea, all the while rambling about how they'll be safer there than anywhere else—as it turns out, Marius’s grandfather’s house, which is in Greenwich, has a sophisticated alarm system that connects directly to a private security company.

Grantaire and Enjolras refrain from commenting, but once again a brief flash of eye contact demonstrates that they're thinking exactly the same thing: they aren't safe in Greenwich. They've known their whole lives that there's no such thing as safety anywhere, not for them. Even if they'd once entertained thoughts of being protected by Valjean’s wealth and the walls of his enormous home, that fantasy had come abruptly to an end the same night Enjolras had shot another child in their living room. The Institute has always loomed large above them, a towering, shadowy threat, able to reach out at any moment and destroy them without effort or consequence.

That's what gets Grantaire the most, he thinks. Where are the consequences for these people? How high up does their power structure go that they're able to act with complete impunity? Kidnapping students from their flats? Having one of the most successful business owners in the UK arrested at the drop of a hat? Surely there’s got to be some kind of way to hold them to account?

Marius’s grandfather’s house is unsurprisingly huge, a Georgian monstrosity that looks like a wedding cake, complete with pillars. The inside is old-fashioned and extravagant, with chandeliers, marble fixtures, and white carpets. Valjean, though extraordinarily wealthy, had had very different tastes. He’d raised the flock in a converted farmhouse on the outskirts of London. Their childhood home had been big but sturdy—solid wooden floors and warm, soft rugs, big squishy sofas and school art projects in place of valuable art pieces. Their dining table had been old, and wooden, and much-battered by ‘science projects’ and small-scale sibling warfare. Grantaire thinks he’d be too worried to touch Marius’s grandfather’s dining table, let alone eat at it.

Grantaire retreats to the shower in his ensuite bathroom as soon as he can, desperate to get some of the two-day-old grime off of himself. The water thundering down on his back nearly sends him to sleep standing up—he finds himself staring at the navy-edged tile until his vision blurs and he can barely see it. He feels numb and over-stimulated, jumpy and exhausted all at once. He's been awake for more than thirty-six hours. He’s gotten a promotion, lost his entire family, sprinted across the length of France and the breadth of the Channel, and finally sat down and talked to Enjolras after more than a decade of prevarication and dissembling. The muscles in his back and wings are in agony, stiff and cramped from his flight from Paris.

Most of all, he’s frustrated by his own numb, muddled brain and its crashing inability to function. He used to be able to untangle any problem with detached efficiency. Right now he can barely tell his left foot from his right. Maybe it's just fatigue or maybe it’s the desperate, clawing terror at the back of his throat that's making his brain feed him white static. Maybe he’s just hopelessly out of practice at thinking like a prisoner of war, and his brain, which used to turn over strategies and weak points like a perpetual motion machine, has grown out of the habit. He tries to think about what Dahlia would advise. She’d probably tell him to stop having a crisis and wash his damn hair, if he’s being honest. But maybe she’d also tell him to trust in himself, and to give himself a break. Maybe she’d say, “things will seem more manageable in the morning.”

He tries to breathe, and focus on what’s in front of him. The shower is very fancy, with eight separate shower heads and ambient mood lighting. It’s in keeping with the atmosphere in the rest of the house—even Marius’s old childhood bedroom, which he’d shown them before they split up to go to bed for the night, had the overwhelming atmosphere of a showroom, or a very nice hotel. Grantaire eyes the elegant shower caddy and the matching toiletries and thinks about the bathrooms in Valjean’s house. Showering there had always involved wading ankle-deep through detritus: empty cherry-scented shower gel containers, discarded pink Gillette razors, multi-coloured lufas, and weirdly malformed lumps of Lush soap had all been an integral part of the showering experience. Intermittently Javert would slip on a lump of pumice, shriek about how they were all monstrous little goblins, and empty all the products into the bin, at which point it had really been a race against time to see whether it would be Enjolras or Jehan who’d start bitching about sustainable plastic use and recycling first.

Grantaire finds himself grinning, and thinks he can understand why Marius chose to spend quite so much time in their house.

He finishes washing his hair and, finally, steps out of the shower. He feels completely at a loss. Fatigue rings in his ears with a high-pitched, irritating frequency. The soft golden mood lighting of the bathroom feels aseptically bright. He sits on the side of the built-in, extremely large bath, with a towel slung around his waist, and looks blankly in the mirror. He almost doesn’t recognise himself.

The first and most alarming thing he notices is that he looks like an adult—like the kind of person who should really have their shit together. His arms have more muscle on them than they did when he was a teenager, the lines of his neck and shoulders and chest are smooth and defined. A sprawl of stubble slopes down the angles of his jaw. His eyes are smudged with fatigue. His hair is damp, curling over his forehead, slightly too long now to conform to the fashionable haircut Musichetta had given him months ago.

There are still some freckles scattered over the bridge of his nose.

He buries his face in his hands and scrubs, fast and hard, before standing up, towelling himself off, and changing into the clothes Enjolras had lent him.

Given that he knows that some of his old clothes are still in Enjolras’s possession, he’s pathetically happy that Enjolras has opted to give him some of his own instead. He zips Enjolras’s dark burgundy hoodie up, enveloping himself in the familiar, much-loved smell, and feels about 10% more capable of continuing to navigate the world.

He shuffles out of the bathroom, bare feet curling in the soft, excessively plush carpet, and finds Enjolras sitting on the end of the bed, looking more exhausted than Grantaire has ever seen him. Enjolras’s eyes are usually a light, clear, almost-amber that reflects daylight to an almost ridiculous extent. Grantaire’s nights are haunted by the goddamn shade of them; he finds himself picking up polished shells on dreamscape beaches that echo with the brilliance of Enjolras’s gaze. Tonight, his eyes are almost impossibly dark, huge and sad in his pale face. His eyelids are red and his lips are very pink, and his fingertips are tucked deep into the sleeves of one of Grantaire’s old sweaters.

Enjolras looks up at Grantaire when he enters, and stares at him for a long moment. There’s nothing particularly awkward in the stare, or the silence. It feels…comforting. As if they’re reassuring each other that they’re still together, and that, crucially, no one has kidnapped Grantaire from the shower.

“Sorry for barging in,” Enjolras says quietly. Grantaire thinks this is something that a lot of people forget about Enjolras: although he certainly has a pair of lungs on him—and the will to use them if he feels it’s necessary—he’s generally, for the most part, a pretty quiet guy.

Grantaire slants him an amused, disbelieving glance, moving round to the left side of the gargantuan super-king sized bed. “Since when did we acknowledge the existence of personal space?” asks Grantaire, sliding between the cool sheets like a fish into the sea.

Enjolras’s shoulders hunch slightly. “I don’t think it’s fair to assume I have a right to be in your space at all times,” he says with such hesitant formality that Grantaire feels as if he’s swallowed hot, sweet tea.

Grantaire digs his toes under Enjolras’s butt and wiggles them. “A very sensible sentiment from Dr Simplice," he says. "But feel the fuck free to assume."

Enjolras tilts his head round to meet Grantaire's eyes over his shoulder, and Grantaire's heart clenches at the shape of Enjolras's jaw, the lines of his cheekbones, the golden ratio spiral of his curls. His expression is achingly uncertain and Grantaire is struck almost physically by the question: did I do this? He doesn't have it within his emotional reserves to process the magnitude of grievous harm he must have done to Enjolras, to make the most certain person he’s ever met—and what was Enjolras ever more certain about that his place next to Grantaire, in Grantaire's space—uncertain.

He knows that Enjolras understands why he’d left London, that he agrees with the necessity of the decision, even. But the hesitance that decision has left in its wake is something Grantaire finds tortuous to look at. He wants to say don’t be ridiculous, he wants to say I always want you beside me.

He settles for saying, as lightly as he can manage, “Get in.” 

Enjolras looks like he might sense some of the undertow to Grantaire's thoughts, because he smiles a little, ruefully, and slides into bed next to him. He clicks off the fancy showroom lamp on the bedside table, extinguishing the last circle of light in the room, and turns to face Grantaire.

In the dark, with Enjolras’s face rendered chiaroscuro and ephemeral, it feels like there’s an eternity of time between them.

Grantaire can feel his heart rate, distantly, in the very tips of his fingertips against the bed linen, hammering along like an out of control train.

Enjolras's expression is curiously vulnerable, and Grantaire, moved by pure muscle memory, shifts closer. Enjolras sad, Enjolras uncertain or frightened—these things Grantaire has always considered his responsibility, and always will. Enjolras stays frozen, watching Grantaire carefully. It's an unsettling reversal of their past behaviours, when Enjolras was always the first to reach out, stretching across the carefully drawn chaos of their battle lines for comfort or reassurance or just to say I’m here. 

Grantaire has never wished to occupy any orbit that wasn't Enjolras's. He doesn’t know how to make Enjolras understand.

He reaches out in a movement that is pure, dream-like reflex, and delicately rests his fingers along the line of Enjolras's neck, his thumb settling in the gentle groove where his jaw meets his temple, his palm warm with the close heat of Enjolras’s face. Enjolras's fingers stretch up, tentatively, and anchor around Grantaire's wrist, keeping his hand in place.

They don't speak, they just stare at each other. Grantaire feels flayed and weightless and on the verge of tears again.

The silence stretches on, heavy with all the things Grantaire can't possibly say. He has no words for this. It would be like trying to capture the night sky in a tea light. He reaches, like a bilingual child, for a word to contain his meaning, but there isn't one. Not in English, or French, or the pretend language of their childhood. I missed you like a blind man misses light. That nearly catches it. Watching you feels like flying, feels like watching a bird in flight. Maybe. Loving you is how I think other people must feel about religion.


 


He can't say any of those things, can't touch any of that blistering, scorching devotion at the center of himself.

Instead he says, "Enjolras."

One moment, he’s staring into the shadowed, desaturated depths of Enjolras’s eyes. The next, Enjolras’s lips are chapped and pressing dryly against his. Something soundless and electric arcs through him, and for one stunned moment the image of a Lichtenberg figure swims in front of his eyes, and he wonders dazedly if the path from his lips to his heart is lit up with buzzing sensation.

Grantaire’s fingertips press more firmly into the line of Enjolras’s jaw before sliding, with the certain, inevitable trajectory of something magnetic, into the thick curls of Enjolras’s hair.

The noise Enjolras makes is unholy. Grantaire presses closer, tilts his chin, and suddenly they’re slotting together in a way that is wet, and hot, so hot, the inside of Enjolras’s mouth feels like a furnace, as if he’s swallowed the sun.

Somewhere, distantly, Grantaire is aware that the bedside lamp is alight again, burning bright against his closed eyelids.

They press close together, nose to nose, lip to lip, jaw to jaw. Grantaire’s questing fingers find the exquisite lines of Enjolras’s lower back, and there’s a kind of sacred geometry in the unspeakable softness of his skin, the planes of muscle, the hard edges of his vertebrae.

Pressing in against Enjolras is like being submerged in a hot bath after being out in the snow. They kiss and kiss and kiss. Enjolras has both his hands on Grantaire’s face, as if to hold him in place. His fingers are transmitting a trembling energy along the line of Grantaire’s jaw.

After some unknowable amount of time, they pull away by fractions. Enjolras’s eyes are filled, horrifyingly, with tears.

Grantaire opens his mouth to address this alarming turn of events, but Enjolras shakes his head and laughs, broken and rueful. He buries his face in Grantaire’s neck and hugs him fiercely.

Grantaire hugs him back with all the strength he possesses, until it feels like they’re one entity, one solid line against the darkness around them.

“I didn’t know I could be this happy and this sad at the same time,” says Enjolras, his lips moving against Grantaire’s neck, the sound muffled and soft.

“I know,” says Grantaire, tracing meaningless, soothing lines across Enjolras’s back. His head is a raucous chorus of frightening things, but this. This is quiet and perfect and everything he has ever wanted. He’s pretty close to tears himself.

Enjolras is silent for a moment, his arms tight around Grantaire’s shoulders. Finally he says, “I don’t know what I would have done if they’d taken you too.”

Grantaire closes his eyes, a slow-motion flinch at the idea of Enjolras taken, and he, Grantaire, left behind. He buries his face in Enjolras’s hair. “I don’t want to think about it,” he whispers. “I can’t think about it. When I thought they had you…”

It’s the same conversation they’d had that afternoon, same ellipsis, same yawning, mutually understood cataclysm.

To banish the thought, Grantaire presses forwards again, lips finding Enjolras’s ear, his temple, his cheekbone, the edge of his nose. By the time they find each other again, Grantaire’s lips are damp from their tears.

Enjolras arms around Grantaire’s neck pull him, impossibly, tighter, and they press together like they’re the only two people left alive at sea. They kiss, and something wild sweeps up inside them. Grantaire’s free hand, the one not trapped against the damp, perfect curve of Enjolras’s lower back, slides down from his waist, to his hip, to his thigh, and grips tight, and Enjolras moans, deep and broken, and Grantaire’s soul just about ascends out of his body.

They break apart again, breathing hard, and Enjolras presses his nose to Grantaire’s, and they stare into each other's eyes.

“You know,” says Grantaire, “we can never go to our high school reunion now.”

Enjolras starts to laugh. First it’s a scrunch at the corners of his eyes, then a flash of teeth, a shake of the shoulders. Then he throws his head back and howls with laughter.

“I’m serious,” says Grantaire, laughing too, caught in the delighted feedback loop of Enjolras’s infectious amusement. “We have to leave the country. This is some Twilight level bullshit. They’re gonna think we’re in a cult. They already thought we were in a cult. You’re like my fucking sister-wife.”

Enjolras just about gets out, through his laughter, “Don’t you mean brother-husband?”

Grantaire stares at him for a moment, trying to maintain some composure in the face of Enjolras’s hilarity and failing miserably. “Alright funny man, if we run into our fucking maths teacher on fucking Embankment, you can explain it to him, how’s that?”

Enjolras is too far gone to comment, and Grantaire resigns himself to watching him laugh. He’d forgotten—how had he forgotten—that it was his favourite sight in the entire world.

The lines of Enjolras’s neck are stretched out in front of him, and Grantaire’s never been one to resist temptation. He licks up the line of muscle, just because he can, and Enjolras sputters to a halt.

Enjolras’s amusement becomes slightly less uproarious, although his eyes are still twinkling with humour. “Poor Dominik Taully,” says Enjolras, with a tragic sigh. “He really didn’t know what he was getting involved in.”

Grantaire groans, long and loud and embarrassed into Enjolras’s neck. “What we did to that boy fucking haunts me, Enjolras. Imagine getting dumped for someone’s brother. Jesus Christ what a low.”

Enjolras snorts with laughter—it’s deeply unattractive and Grantaire loves him for it. 

“Rest in pieces, Dominik,” Enjolras says with overdone faux-sincerity. “You shall not be missed.”

Grantaire nudges him in the ribs, grinning, and Enjolras squawks. “You’re such an unrepentant little shit.”

They subside into giggles and there’s quiet for a few beats.

“You know,” says Enjolras, suddenly, as if he’s just remembered that they need to put milk on the shopping list. “I’m not… Like I don’t really do… sex. Or want it.”

Grantaire shoots him an unimpressed glance and nudges their feet together. “You know, there’s a word for the concept you are trying to explain to me, here.”

Enjolras huffs exasperatedly, and it fills Grantaire with soft warmth. “Well, I know the word asexual,” he says, with pretend irritation. “I just didn’t know if you would.”

Enjolras is obviously fully prepared for Grantaire to snipe playfully back and say something like, “My grasp of vocabulary is actually well above average, thank you very much.” But Grantaire is too caught up in how very, very fond of Enjolras he is.

“I know you, sunshine,” he says gently, and rubs the bridge of his nose down Enjolras’s jaw. “I spent pretty much my entire life watching you. Do you think I missed your sexuality?”

Enjolras gazes back at him, the lines of his mouth turned down slightly in… something close to solemnity. It’s the same sentiment that Grantaire recognises from within himself… an adult and reverential appreciation for the depth of their attachment.

For years, like a flooded river with burst banks, their relationship had whirled them around in uncontrollable eddies and currents of compulsion and misery, intermittently pulling them under, out of reach of air. It’s no wonder that they’d struggled so hard. How could a child or a teenager hope to manage that intensity of love for another person? No one had ever taught them to swim, they’d been lost from the very beginning. It was amazing, in retrospect, that they’d hung on for as long as they had.

Enjolras looks at him, and a small smile plays around his lips. Grantaire smiles back, pure reflex.

“I love you,” says Enjolras, simply. It doesn’t sound like a non sequitur, it sounds like the natural continuation of a two decade long conversation. He says it as though Grantaire has asked a question and he simply happens to know the answer.

“I love you too,” says Grantaire, lips numb with it. “You know that. I’m pretty sure I love you more than anyone else has ever loved.”

Enjolras smiles and leans forward to punctuate Grantaire’s lips with a kiss. “Ahhh, no,” he says politely, lips still brushing Grantaire’s. “I disagree. Because I love you more than anyone else. And we can’t both be right.”

Grantaire grins and Enjolras bites Grantaire’s lip, presciently aware that the next words out of his mouth are going to be antagonistic. 

“Well, in that case I think precedent would say that I’m more likely to be right,” Granaire says. “Because I’m always right, obviously.”

Enjolras scowls and his eyes flash with the fire that Grantaire has spent his whole life basking in, like a personal sun.

“Isn’t love supposed to be a kind of insanity?” Enjolras asks thoughtfully, coming out of the left field with a truly entertaining branch of reasoning. “I’m definitely crazier than you.”

Grantaire laughs in surprise, and kisses Enjolras with all the tenderness in his soul. “Alright, you can have this one. You’re more unhinged than me, Enjolras, I’ll allow it.”

Enjolras nods smugly, like he’s won an argument about Margaret Thatcher’s treatment of the unions, and Grantaire laughs again, drunk on their closeness.

Enjolras falls asleep intertwined with Grantaire, in the middle of a sentence. Grantaire can’t tell where his limbs end and Enjolras’s begin; he feels entangled on a quantum level. 

Even as sleep creeps up on him, Grantaire continues to watch Enjolras: his bruised eyelids, the fan of his blonde eyelashes, the softness of his tanned skin, his kissed-pink lips. He would have been content to love Enjolras in their own strange, unspoken, semi-platonic way for the rest of his life, but this—kisses and affection and warmth borne out of delight rather than desperation—is so, so much better. He feels, bizarrely, breathless with longing for the person secure in his own arms. He’d had no idea when he climbed into bed that this was the trajectory they were pointed along—but now it feels fate-like, predetermined. 

He thinks about fate and the mechanism of tragedy in Greek myths—the invisible wires behind every flight of Icarus, pulling him down. He thinks about how tragedy is not just tragic but also, inherently, something unstoppable. He thinks about what kind of words you need to put into a person to turn them into their own self defeating prophecy.

And Grantaire is furious, suddenly, at the idea of being turned into his own bad omen, at being the albatross slung around his own neck. There has to be such a thing as happy providence—an unstoppable impetus towards good. Grantaire knows there is: for every moment in his life when some kind of dark, invisible hand had pulled him towards chaos and misery, there had been as many—more—moments of compassion and love and gentleness, guiding him towards light and life.

Grantaire refuses to let himself become mired in inevitable catastrophe. He deserves a life filled with bright, banal joys—pistachio ice cream, and stupid mugs, and Enjolras wrapped in his old green sweater. He deserves to be happy, he deserves to love Enjolras and be loved by him. And he deserves to make his own choices, free from the invisible strings of fate and catastrophe. He deserves his freedom. It is long past due.

&

 

 

“Show me them,” are the first words out of Claquesous’s mouth on their early morning video call.

Grantaire shifts awkwardly in his seat.

Claquesous looks as exhausted as Grantaire does. His flat, expressionless face gives away as little as always, but within his eyes, Grantaire thinks he sees a small, troubling spark of mania.

“Err,” says Grantaire, stalling. “Show you what?”

Claquesous bends very close to the camera and, yep, that is definitely some A-grade madness lurking in the depths of Claquesous’s soul. “Your. Wings,” he hisses.

“Um, okay. Hang on.” Grantaire goes to move off-screen, to mitigate the possibility of doing a mid-morning strip-show for his employer, but Claquesous points at him with one long, threatening finger.

“Don’t move, stay where you are,” he says, eyes narrowed.

Grantaire rolls his eyes. “It’s not a hoax,” he says.

When Claquesous merely raises an eyebrow, Grantaire sighs.

“Fine.”

He pulls off the burgundy zipper and the black t-shirt underneath, revealing his binder. He unzips the binder, and out furl his wings.

In the background he hears Mardisoir squawk, “They were under there the whole time?!”

Claquesous, face perfectly impassive, ends the call.

Grantaire meets eyes with Enjolras on the opposite couch, who grimaces and shrugs.

He calls Claquesous again. The call goes through, and in the background Grantaire can hear a commotion of noise.

He hears Mardisoir shout, off screen and at high volume, “I cannot believe—”

Then a voice that Grantaire almost can’t believe is Montparnasse shrieks, “I told you! I told you multiple times!” 

Grantaire had assumed that Montparnasse, after receiving Grantaire’s bank card and an address to hide out in from Claquesous, would have been keen bordering on ecstatic to never involve himself, however remotely, with Grantaire or the Institute ever again. He had assumed that, in not immediately murdering Grantaire or handing him over to the Institute, Montparnasse was performing at the absolute maximum of his moral capacity to do good. And yet there he is, squabbling with Grantaire’s coworkers.

Off-screen, Mardisoir squawks back, “And who are you to me, huh?”

“I showed you my teeth!”

“AND??”

Claquesous stares into the camera at Grantaire, and conveys, in a moment of sheer, unguarded emotion, the expansive depths of his regret at ever involving Grantaire in his life. Then he ends the call.

Grantaire rolls his eyes and immediately calls back.

“I fucking hate you,” Claquesous tells him politely when the call connects.

In the background, Montparnasse appears to have lost any and all dignity that he ever possessed. “WHAT DO YOU FUCKING MEAN, DENTURES?” he’s screaming.

“THEY’RE LITERALLY JUST SHARP TEETH, DUDE!”

Enjolras, out of interest, moves round so as to better observe the video call.

“Hey,” Grantaire attempts to cut in. “Uh, not to interrupt, but we’re kind of on a time scale here…”

“I FUCKING BIT THROUGH A FORK! WHAT MORE DO I HAVE TO DO FOR YOU PEOPLE?”

“Honestly, it’s not like our cutlery is particularly good quality. I could probably have bitten through it too.”

“SHUT THE FUCK UP!” Claquesous roars. In Marius’s grandfather’s pristine living room, Grantaire leaps half a foot in the air. “I HATE ALL OF YOU! YOU’RE ALL FUCKING FIRED!” 

There’s silence for a beat, and then Montparnasse, in a tone of voice that sits somewhere between ‘affronted’ and ‘forced nonchalance’ says, “I don’t work for you.”

Claquesous smacks both hands onto the table and looks up over the camera, towards, Grantaire assumes, Montparnasse. “I don’t give a single fucking shit,” he snarls. “You’re still fucking fired! All right, coyote boy?”

Montparnasse’s screech of, “COYOTE BOY?” almost drowns out Mardisoir, who comes round the edge of the laptop and into screen to wave down at Grantaire.

“Don’t worry about Sous!” she says loudly, as Claquesous and Montparnasse descend into a screaming match. “He’s just embarrassed he didn’t notice his secretary has wings! It’s a bit awkward! He’s supposed to have good observational skills!”

“My observational skills are fine!” shouts Claquesous.

“Get the fuck off of me!” Montparnasse squawks.

Claquesous reappears, dragging Montparnasse by the collar. Grantaire is legitimately, wildly surprised Claquesous is still in possession of his fingers, which are centimetres from Montparnasse’s teeth.

Claquesous shoves Montparnasse into his own vacated chair, in front of the laptop, and Grantaire has the absolute joy of watching Montparnasse, like a cat who’s just been lifted by the scruff of its neck, crest peak levels of violent internal rage and then, on realising he’s being observed, pretend to be aloofly unruffled by the whole thing.

“What are you grinning at?” Montparnasse snarls at Grantaire, hackles up. “Oh, as codependent as ever, I see. Christ, shit just does not stick to you, does it, Enjy? Aren’t you supposed to be kidnapped?”

Enjolras, halfway through a sip of coffee, looks honestly surprised—not to mention discomfited—to find himself being addressed.

“Um,” he says. “I was at a model UN conference?”

Montparnasse looks like he’d rather chew his own face off than know what a model UN conference is. “And what have you been doing for the past day?” he asks Grantaire. “Are you breaking into the Institute or not? Don’t tell me you’ve been snogging Enjolras the whole time.”

From behind him comes the damning noise of Enjolras choking on his coffee. Grantaire feels himself freeze incriminatingly.

“Are you kidding me?” Montparnasse asks, in genuine disbelief.

“Who’s Enjolras?” Mardisoir asks with interest. “That guy?”

“His brother,” says Montparnasse.

Claquesous ends the call for the third time.

When the call is picked up again, there’s silence on both sides. Claquesous has his face buried in his hands.

Grantaire reaches deep, deep within himself to find some centre of calm.

“Can we please,” he says, “focus on my missing family?”

There’s a pause.

“Would that be your family, singular, or your family, the both of you, because you have the same family?” Mardisoir asks carefully.

Beside her, Montparnasse looks like he’s thoroughly enjoying himself.

“I can’t,” says Claquesous, raising both his hands in surrender. “I cannot know any more, Mardisoir. Please stop asking him questions.”

Grantaire takes a moment to reflect that this experience is much less fun than he’d imagined the previous night.

“He is not my brother,” he says, calm fraying at the edges. “But yes, our family is missing. And we would like to get them back.”

“Keep your lacy knickers on,” says Montparnasse, rolling his eyes. 

“We have information for you,” says Claquesous, looking like his finger is hovering over the end call button, just in case any new revelations re: lacy knickers come to light.

“You do?” asks Grantaire. “I was just calling to ask—”

“Well, we thought you might call to ask, but you took a while, so we just got to work.”

“We,” sneers Montparnasse.

“We put the toothy asshole you sent us to work,” Claquesous clarifies.

Grantaire’s eyebrows just about enter his hairline. What is Montparnasse still doing? Why is he helping? Montparnasse is not a person who indulges in selflessness, Grantaire knows that, so what’s his endgame? Does he just want to see the Institute go down? Is that really worth the risk for him? 

“I went and shook down your Jondrettes,” says Montparnasse, and his grin is wide like a Cheshire cat. “Stole a bunch of their stuff. Had a nice little chat. Did you know they’re Azelma’s parents? People, huh?”

Grantaire has been putting his own pieces of the puzzle together and this confirms it. “I think they also go by Thernadier,” he says. “They’re Eponine and Gavroche’s parents too. They go way back in this business. They were in our documents from the original Institute”

“Montparnasse got a shit ton of data,” says Mardisoir, with a note of admiration in her voice. “About five flash drives and three box folders of paperwork. And a burner phone. It’s all deeply incriminating.”

“And 50,000 euros in cash,” says Montparnasse, with a flash of teeth. “Reparations.”

“They had all this stuff just lying about?” Grantaire asks. “Just how sure were they that nobody was going to come after them?”

“I’d say fairly sure,” says Claquesous darkly.

“Where are they now?” asks Enjolras.

Montparnasse scowls with genuine anger. “Well, if I had my way they’d be dead. But apparently they might still be of some use.”

“They’re tied up in Montparnasse’s Airbnb,” says Claquesous.

“Oh,” says Grantaire, grimacing. “Great.”

Mardisoir, who had temporarily wandered off-screen, slips back into frame and places in front of Montparnasse an object that Grantaire recognises as the Garfield ‘I hate Mondays’ mug. Montparnasse takes an idle sip and Grantaire makes a calculated decision not to mention it.

Obviously, Enjolras, always and forever a little shit, falls elsewhere on this spectrum of decision. "What does your mug say?" he asks, straight faced.

"It says go fuck yourself," Montparnasse replies, without looking down, and with the rapidity of a man who has been sitting on this sentence for the past twenty years.

Enjolras nods sagely and takes a sip of Grantaire's tea.

"Have you had a chance to look through the data?" Grantaire asks, switching their mugs back around and ignoring the betrayed look that Enjolras is currently shooting Grantaire's unsweetened tea.

"We've looked through a good amount," says Mardisoir, perching between Montparnasse and Claquesous. It’s making Grantaire's head spin, seeing the three of them together. He can't get over how well they seem to fit.

"We've got all the digital data uploaded to our own server,” says Claquesous. “You can have a look through that on your end. We're just getting the paper stuff sorted and digitised now.”

“That sounds like a lot of work…” says Grantaire hesitantly.

Mardisoir picks up the laptop and moves off with it. Grantaire gets a jolting off-keel view of Claquesous’s office before the door opens, and Grantaire gets a new perspective on a room he knows very well—the front reception, in which Grantaire’s desk, the mangy sofa and the rickety coffee table all still sit comfortingly in place, just as he left them.  Spread out across the floor are piles of paper and amongst them, engrossed in reading and sorting, sit Babet, Depeche, and Fauntleroy. In a corner, paying more attention to her phone than her surroundings, is Azelma. When they notice the attention on them, Depeche waves and Fauntleroy blows a kiss.

"We called in some backup," says Claquesous grimly. "They're getting equal shares in your paycheck for the month."

“That seems…more than fair,” says Grantaire.

In truth, he’s stunned. He’d called with the intention of asking Claquesous for some help, but he hadn’t expected to find half of Patron Minette already arrayed in the reception area for that very purpose. He owes a lot to Claquesous and Mardisoir for providing him with employment that he loves, but they don’t owe him anything. Even with Mardisoir’s prior interest in the Jondrettes’ case, the last time she tangled with the Institute she ended up imprisoned, with her arm in a cast. They have nothing to gain and everything to lose from helping him, but here they are, helping. Grantaire knows Patron Minette well enough to know that, outside of Mardisoir and perhaps Depeche, nobody cares enough about the exploitation of vulnerable women in Paris to risk their own necks. No, they’re helping because they consider Grantaire one of them, and they protect their own. Grantaire doesn’t know what to do with that information except feel ridiculously, dizzyingly grateful.

Mardisoir turns the camera back to face herself. "We're still sorting through it all, but it seems like the data falls into a few key categories. First is information related to the kidnapped women themselves. These records go back decades, and they're…horribly thorough." She leans forwards briefly, reading something on the laptop screen, her eyes darting back and forwards. "You can see for yourself, this is the flash drive stuff. Every woman has a detailed medical history, psychological examination, and social history. They're... scored. On how vulnerable they were. Extra points for things like... dead or estranged parents, no close friends or siblings, no steady employment that would notice them missing. A lot of them are sex workers, immigrants without visas, that kind of stuff."

Mardisoir stops, seeming to need a moment to swallow down some of the bright, ice-cold rage that Grantaire can see in her eyes. She moves back through to Claquesous office, and sets the laptop on the table again, so that she, Claquesous and Montparnasse are all back on screen.

“And the other data?" Grantaire hedges.

"The second lot of stuff is about the women's pregnancies. It seems like they're..." Mardisoir breaks off again, squinting at the screen, "I don't really get it, the names—”

“It’s information on the experiments. The kids,” Montparnasse drawls, lounging backwards in his chair, the picture of nonchalance. “There’s folders for all the different researchers. One for Marie Cosette, Georges Combeferre, Rémi Grantaire..." Montparnasse raises his eyebrows significantly. "Would you look at that, even an Olivier Montparnasse. There’s files for each of the different pregnancies they were ‘in charge of’. What in-utero procedures were performed, whether the pregnancy went on to be viable, how much information the mother was given, how she was killed once she had served her purpose."

Beside him, Enjolras shifts in his seat. Grantaire doesn't have to look at him to know that he's restless, trembling with rage.

Mardisoir and Claquesous, meanwhile, are looking at each other with identical expressions of unease.

"Your names are just... The names of the people who experimented on your mothers before they killed them?" Mardisoir asks, with a face that says, almost audibly, yikes.

"Would you believe me if I said that that isn't even in my trauma top ten?" asks Grantaire.

"Yes," say Mardisoir and Claquesous simultaneously.

"Oh good, it's good to know that I just... project that," says Grantaire.

“Is there anything about us from after?” Enjolras asks with a frown.

Montparnasse grasps his meaning immediately and shakes his head. "Nothing about the experiments after they were born. I'd imagine the Institute has most of that in their own files."

“There are lots of records on how much money the Jondrettes have raked in,” says Claquesous. “And a good amount tying them to some fairly important people. I imagine a lot of those people are going to be very unhappy that this information has gotten out.” Claquesous looks as gleeful as Grantaire’s ever seen him.

“We’re still getting through that data,” says Mardisoir. “It’s mostly the paper stuff. Forget all the kidnap and murder, the thing they were really keen that nobody found was their tax records.”

"We also have a list of phone numbers and contacts that we managed to get off the burner phone," says Claquesous. "You know, it really is an incredible amount of evidence."

Grantaire wonders if he’s hallucinating, or if Montparnasse actually does preen very slightly at that comment.

"I can't believe that they thought they could keep this stuff sitting around in a safe," Grantaire hears Depeche say from somewhere off screen. From the direction the others turn to look at her, she must be standing in the doorway. "They must have been really sure they'd never have to deal with a government raid, or any kind of police presence in their house at all. Either that or they're criminally stupid, and they seem to have been a bit too successful for that."

Mardisoir shrugs. "We already know they're in deep with the government. I suppose the only question is how deep."

Marius looks up from where he's been quietly combing through Eponine’s data on the opposite couch, surrounded by loose leaf bits of paper. He has a biro pen sticking out of his mouth—nib inwards, Grantaire notes—and a manic look in his eyes.

“Really, really deep,” he says, absently catching the bic as it falls out of his mouth.

He scrambles around to where Grantaire and Enjolras are sitting and peers into the laptop camera. It’s clear from just the grainy picture in the preview window—and, indeed from where Grantaire and Enjolras are sitting—that Marius is not holding together well. His hair is wild, he looks like he’s had exactly zero hours of sleep in the past three days, and he’s developed a nervous tick of jumping and looking at his phone every time a notification comes in. He has a line of pen ink smudged across his face. And for all that, Grantaire has to hand it to him, he’s still here. Still fighting. Grantaire doesn’t know if he’d honestly have expected it of him—but then, Cosette has always been an excellent judge of character.

“That’s the main focus of Ponine’s data,” says Marius, shoving Eponine’s laptop onto the table next to Enjolras’s. “The shell corporations and contractors linked to the government and the military through one specific research and development project—codenamed Project Icarus.”

Grantaire and Enjolras sit bolt upright and stare at Marius with identical expressions of horror.

“They called it that?” exclaims Enjolras.

“That’s their secret codename?” Grantaire says.

“These people are supposed to be smart!” says Enjolras, hitting the same pitch he always does when he’s gone beyond the point of righteous indignation. “They're the orchestrators of an international kidnapping conspiracy! They splice genes!”

Grantaire’s own disbelief is displaced by amusement, and by how very, very much he loves Enjolras—every ridiculous, principled inch of him. Every time Grantaire catches sight of him—of his jawline or his furrowed brow or his hands, curled around his coffee cup—his stomach swoops like it used to when they were kids, practicing diving in the flying yard. It’s not that Enjolras is a distraction—Enjolras is still Enjolras, after all, and Grantaire can multi-task with the best of them. If anything, the little electric shocks of happiness are helping to buoy him on, keeping him from sinking under the weight of despair.

“Right…” says Marius, looking even more bewildered than usual. “Ehm. So, I think she went after the other companies tied to that particular R&D project because she couldn’t go after it directly. You know, there’s different levels of security with these things, and sometimes the best way to find out what’s going on with one thing, is to collect information about the things around about it. Then you can kind of...use it to work out the shape of the thing you’re actually looking at.”

Marius’s mouth twists. “I mean, even as it is, this is insanely classified material. Hacking into the Ministry of Defense in any way whatsoever is just…ridiculously dangerous. Forget getting arrested for fraud, this is tried for treason kind of stuff. But, anyway. She found a list of tax returns and funding grants that link to a whole host of contractors in the UK. She was particularly interested in this one—Donougher Industries, have you heard of that company before?”

Grantaire and Enjolras shake their heads. On screen, so do Claquesous and Mardisoir. Montparnasse narrows his eyes.

“From what information Ponine managed to collect, it seems like it manufactures and supplies lab equipment.” He gives Grantaire and Enjolras a significant look, and they dutifully nod to indicate that they see the connection.

"There's also this one—Wilbour and Wraxall Ltd. It supplies industrial furnishings. Hospital beds, lighting, door fittings, that kind of thing."

Grantaire stiffens as his brain flashes bright with the image of those things: rows of hospital cots with starched white sheets, lines of bright fluorescent lighting, the door fitting they’d slipped some gum into, once upon a time.

Beside him, Enjolras shifts reflexively, and finds Grantaire’s hand with his own. Grantaire isn’t actually certain that Enjolras is aware he’s doing it; his eyes haven’t left the laptop screen, and he’s frowning as if something has just occurred to him. 

Marius starts to list a few more corporations, but Enjolras cuts across him, directing a question at Claquesous and Mardisoir.

“Sorry, Marius. Did you say there was a burner phone? Do you have a list of the phone numbers?”

Mardisoir tilts her head back and hollers, “FAUN!”

After a beat, in which the sound of a door opening is audible, she continues, at a more sedate volume, “Do you have the list of numbers there?”

“I’ve not finished cross-referencing them yet,” says Fauntleroy’s voice.

Claquesous accepts a sheet of paper from out-of-screen and squints at it. Through the backlit paper, Grantaire can see a tightly scrawled list of numbers with notes beside them.

“I’ve been running them through the database manually,” says Fauntleroy. “A lot of the incoming calls are private numbers though.”

"Any unusual or foreign area codes?" Enjolras asks, running his thumb absently over the back of Grantaire's.

Mardisoir and Claquesous study the list intently. Next to them, like a cat pretending to be asleep, Montparnasse cracks an eye open and runs it over the list.

"That one," Montparnasse says, after a split second, leaning lazily forwards to poke at a number near the bottom of the page. “Plus four four. It’s an international calling code.”

Mardisoir and Claquesous grace him with a simultaneous, disbelieving glance, which he ignores thoroughly.

"He's right," says Claquesous. “Did you get anything on that one, Faun?”

“It’s unlisted,” says Fauntleroy. “So there’s no address matched to it. I could call them and ask?”

Mardisoir grimaces and Claquesous shakes his head. “No calling anyone to tip them off, thanks,” he says.

“What’s the local area code, again?” asks Grantaire.

“It starts 01854,” says Mardisoir.

Enjolras is already typing it into his phone.

In the background, he hears Mardisoir ask Fauntleroy, "Are there any more entries for that number?"

Fauntleroy wanders over and perches his hip against the edge of the desk. He's frowning down at an old Nokia, thumbing through the screen at an almost breakneck speed.

"One more from three months ago," Fauntleroy says, and Mardisoir notes the date down on the piece of paper. "One from three months before that. One from... Yep. January, nine months ago. Seems like they check in pretty regularly."

"So not a one-off call then," says Claquesous.

"It's an Ullapool area code," says Enjolras suddenly, looking up at Grantaire from his phone. "In Scotland." 

“Seems as good a place as any to hide an Institute,” Grantaire says.

Enjolras nods his head thoughtfully. “Aren’t there lots of military bases in Scotland? Lots of space, lots of rural roads that nobody uses…”

"I wonder how big an area that calling code covers," says Marius, gnawing on his pen. "You know, I’ve been up to my grandfather's hunting lodge in the highlands, and the land’s empty. You come across the occasional village or row of houses, but the population per square foot is tiny. It's not like with London, where an area code will tell you, like, what street a house is in. I bet this covers a much bigger area. It might not narrow things down as much as we'd hope."

Enjolras looks like he's still chewing through the phrase 'hunting lodge' so Grantaire asks, "Are any of the corporations that Ponine found based in Scotland?"

Marius only needs a few minutes to filter through the data. Unlike the information from Montparnasse's heist, which is scattered and piecemeal, Eponine has meticulously filed all her information into databases with various filters and searching capacities. Eponine will always, always be Grantaire’s forever girl.

"More than can be a coincidence,” says Marius, with a frown. “Donougher Industries seems to be, from the PO box, although it looks like they’ve just got the one factory, in Glasgow. Same with this one, Denny's Paper Supplies, it’s got offices outside of Edinburgh."

"Can we get their delivery orders?" Grantaire asks.

"I think Eponine probably tried," says Marius with a frown, scrolling through the data. "A lot of small companies keep their order systems on paper, or else on small offline databases if they only have one office."

"How about employee lists, do we have them?" Mardisoir asks.

"A few," says Marius. "Mostly just the registered owners of the businesses."

Claquesous meets Grantaire's eye from across the English Channel. "Sounds like a bit of social media stalking might be the way to go," he says neutrally.

Grantaire nods. "I might not be able to hack into the Ministry of Defense, but I can creep on Facebook to an Olympic standard."

"That is what I pay you your paltry minimum wage for,” agrees Claquesous, and Grantaire doesn’t think he’s imagining the beginnings of a smile around his mouth.

“We’ll keep working through the data,” says Mardisoir. She smiles at them encouragingly. “Good luck!”

&

Grantaire works through the social media profiles of every person remotely implicated by Eponine’s research. It’s slow, systematic work, and normally he’d be soothed by the almost hypnotic click-through of likes and shares, but the lump of anxiety that now lives in his sternum like ball lightning gives the whole experience a jittery, miserable edge.

He follows through from Charles Laughton to Lewis Milestone, Robert Newton to Richard Jordan to Anthony Perkins. He cross-references photos of middle-aged balding men at bowling alleys, and Christmas nights out, and photos in online newspaper archives from when Denny's Paper Company donated their raffle proceeds to the local primary school. He keeps a map of Scotland open in Google maps, and ends up memorising the names of most of the small towns in north west Scotland through sheer repeat exposure. Eventually, he finds something: a photo on poor Norman McAfee's un-secured facebook wall, with three likes. It’s an oversaturated, off-centre photo of sepia-coloured moors against an ancient rocky skyline. The caption reads 'always enjoy this drive', and the geodata puts it somewhere between Beinn Dearg and Loch Glascarnoch—only a few miles east of Ullapool. Grantaire sends a prayer of thanks to any and all gods listening for baby boomer technological ineptitude.

Norman McAfee works as a delivery driver for Donougher Industries, and when Grantaire blags his way past Norman's hotmail security questions, he finds, deep in his email inbox, his second lead: an email from Mr McAfee's boss, regarding the address of the MoD Rhidorroch, a military base that—according to Google—shut down in early 1994, more than two decades prior to Mr McAfee's regular delivery of medical supplies.

An address.

Grantaire looks up. An early evening has closed around them in Marius's grandfather's living room, the beautiful, ornate furnishings only adding to the oppressive, claustrophobic gloom. Marius is curled up in an armchair, sleeping with his face pressed into the seat cushion. His laptop has slipped down to rest at an odd angle against his socked feet. His hand is curled up at his mouth—he looks young, and exhausted, and very frightened.

Enjolras is still working, his face lit up starkly by the screen of Eponine's laptop. He's frowning intently, making notes on a legal pad, leaning forwards with an elbow on his knee, his fingers tight in his own curls. Grantaire appreciates, for one quiet beat, how beautiful Enjolras is. He thinks about how he'd like to draw him—see if he could catch some of Enjolras's endless, endless determination in the lines of his limbs and his stupid perfect face.

He lets the moment break. They have other things they need to do, now.

"I've found it," Grantaire says quietly. "The Institute. I know where it is."

Enjolras jolts and stares at him, eyes wide. Grantaire looks back, at a loss.

Like two tuning forks when one is struck, a high, keen, ringing note of fear reverberates between them. The Institute is home to every single one of their nightmares and the root of every wild tangle of misery they've had to fight through. It’s their own personal gallows, and they’re going to have to walk back into it, with no guarantee that they’ll ever see the sky again.

For a fraction of a moment, Grantaire's mind brushes against the idea of convincing Enjolras to stay behind. Or, worse, giving him a different address and taking off in the middle of the night without him. There was a time when Grantaire wouldn't have thought twice, and his childhood self still whispers in the back of his head: sneak off on your own, don't risk their lives, don't risk Enjolras. You're better than them at this stuff, you're more expendable. And then there’s the still-ringing echo of their thousand childhood arguments, petty and fraught, regarding which one of them should die first (is that a normal topic to occupy the thoughts of children? Grantaire can't imagine that it is, but there was a time when it was a formidable source of debate between them).

The Grantaire of today recoils at the selfishness inherent in that martyrdom.The idea of Enjolras dying and Grantaire being left behind is no less cataclysmic than it had been when they were younger. But now, stronger than anything else is...What is it? Trust—that Enjolras will never willingly leave him? Respect—for Enjolras’s autonomy, and his right to make his own decisions?

Grantaire is surprised to find that at some point in the past few years, the cord that had bound the two of them together, wrist to wrist and ankle to ankle, has snapped. Enjolras is the person Grantaire loves more than anyone and anything else in the world. But he doesn’t belong to Grantaire, and he certainly isn’t part of Grantaire. And that’s good, Grantaire is sure. Even if it feels strange and awkward, it’s still good. It’s better to be two people, in possession of their own minds and thoughts and souls, in tune but independent, than a monstrous two-headed creature, pulling wildly in two discordant directions. Surely if there is such a thing as soul mates, then the joy is in finding each other, over and over, in a smile or a kiss or a flight across the Channel—not in never being able to leave.

Enjolras's eyes reflect Grantaire, and all the thousands of Grantaire's doubts and fears.

But Enjolras is Enjolras, and Grantaire is Grantaire, and while they may be two sides of one spinning coin, they are different sides, and so it’s Enjolras who squares his jaw, and looks at him with all fire he possesses and says, "We'd better get going then."

And Grantaire has never loved him more. 

&

Marius buys their train tickets with his grandfather’s credit card. He—perhaps unsurprisingly—also insists on coming. They get two rooms on the Caledonian Sleeper for later that evening, for an amount of money that makes Grantaire’s eyes water. Ideally they’d get a flight up, but no member of the flock has ever dared brave Heathrow Airport's body scanners, and now doesn't feel like the time to try it. They could actually fly, but then Marius would have to make his own way, and they all agree that arriving in Scotland exhausted isn’t a good way to begin an assault on a military compound. Given that Enjolras and Grantaire spent their entire adolescence in the London Metropolitan Area, neither of them has a driving licence. Marius admits, grudgingly, that he has one, but is a 'nervous driver’—his grandfather had taught him to drive and the experience seems to have left a psychological mark. That leaves the overnight train.

They board that evening from Euston at quarter past nine, the three of them crushing into one of the rooms and spreading their laptops and papers across the double bed.

Grantaire had checked in with Claquesous and Mardisoir before they’d left to let them know that they had an address and were heading north.  Claquesous had reiterated his offer of help, stressing that Grantaire should get in touch if he needed anything—but Claquesous doesn't have any contacts in Scotland, and even if he did, Grantaire thinks you'd have to be pretty good friends with someone before breaking-and-entering-and-potentially-destroying a Ministry of Defense site is something you could reasonably put on your Amazon Wishlist. Grantaire doesn't really want to ask, but he's pretty sure it's actually considered domestic terrorism.

Central London has started to roll away from them to the south, and the world outside is dark and lit with the nocturnal lives of London's millions.

Grantaire takes a breath and says, "I have an idea."

Enjolras whips his head around so suddenly that Marius visibly startles.

"No," says Enjolras, looking more hurt and betrayed and angry than Grantaire could have imagined, given that thus far he's only said four very vague words. "No, I knew you were going to try this, and the answer is no." Enjolras blinks quickly and stares out of the window, his posture rigid.

Grantaire stares at him, then at Marius, then back at Enjolras.

He leans forwards, slowly, and takes Enjolras's coffee—decaf, lots of milk, four sugars—gently out of his hands, and sets it on the table. Then he takes Enjolras's hands in his own.

Enjolras, if anything, stiffens further. He looks like a man bracing himself for an impact.

"Enjolras," Grantaire says gently, but not without a touch of amusement. "Are you by any chance assuming my thoughts, rather than asking me about them?"

Enjolras tears his eyes away from the window and looks at Grantaire. He looks shockingly reluctant to argue with him, given that it was the pastime they devoted the majority of their childhood and adolescence to.

"You're going to tell me to stay behind," he says, jaw set. "And I won't. You can't make me. I have…powers, or whatever, too you know. I can do more than just turn the lights on."

"Yes, you can also make them explode."

"I can make lots of things explode!”

“One of the many things I love about you."

Enjolras blinks, taken aback. Grantaire has to admit, it’s a bit of a rogue move. De-escalating a conflict, rather than immediately whipping out the verbal equivalent of a petrol bomb, hasn’t really been a feature of his conversational playbook in the past.

"I won't stay behind," says Enjolras. Then adds, in the same stubborn, mullish tone, “And I love you too.”

"Thanks," Grantaire laughs. "And I wasn't going to suggest that you stayed behind."

Enjolras opens his mouth to argue again, and then his brain catches up with his mouth. "You weren't."

"I wasn't."

"Well—" Enjolras seems to deflate back against the seat. "Well, then what were you going to suggest?" he asks, just a touch sulkily. He fiddles idly with Grantaire's fingers, and reaches back out for his coffee with his other hand.

Marius, who has been attempting to bore a hole into Eponine’s laptop screen with the force of his gaze alone, and whose ears have turned a delicate shade of maroon, risks a glance back up at them.

It’s Grantaire's turn to look away from Enjolras, down at the strange train-carpet pattern on the floor. "I think we should, uh...come out."

Enjolras blinks at him. “Excuse me?” he asks politely.

Marius, shockingly, is slightly quicker on the uptake. "What, really?" he asks, staring at Grantaire.

“I’m happy to be open about our relationship,” says Enjolras, frowning. “But you did say people would think we were in a cult, and I’m really not sure that now’s the time to—”

Grantaire resists the urge to kiss Enjolras on his dumb stupid mouth, in deference to Marius's head not exploding through sheer social awkwardness.

"Enjolras," he says, and there is a world of fondness and exasperation and what the fuck in that one word, because Enjolras's name has always been the word that meant the most things to Grantaire.  "Come out about being experiments,” he says. "Come out about our wings."

"Oh." Enjolras looks out the window again. His hand—the one not messing with the lid of his coffee cup—continues to fidget with Grantaire's fingers.

"We don't have to—“ Grantaire starts.

"No," says Enjolras, his tone thoughtful and his gaze distant. "No, I'm not against it. You know I've never been against it. But you always have been, haven't you?"

"Yes," Grantaire admits. "But the thing is... Even if we manage to break into the Institute, and then break the rest of them out... And even if we managed to destroy it somehow...What then? We'd still be looking over our shoulders for the rest of our lives, waiting for the next one to pop up. That was the problem the last time. We destroyed the building but all the infrastructure, the people who did it, the systems that allowed it—they still existed. Surely the only way to stop that process is to dig it up by the roots. Show the world what they've done."

Grantaire can almost see the cogs turning in Enjolras's head.

"We'd be doing it without the others’ consent," Enjolras says. "I don't think we can do that. Even if we were the only ones to...to come out, anyone who knew us would be able to join the dots. What would we say, 'oh no, these are our eleven completely normal, un-winged siblings, who are our family for completely unrelated reasons?"

Grantaire grins, but nods his understanding. "We could do it anonymously, then. If we get enough data together, it’ll still be incontrovertible proof. The stuff from the original Institute —Eponine uploaded that to her server, right? And Eponine’s new research. And the stuff from the Jondrettes. And if we can get some incriminating data while we're in this Institute, too…that might be enough.”

"If we did that, a lot of people would get charged for...well, a lot of crimes. The police would want witnesses. They would try and find us."

"There's precedent for the courts protecting the anonymity of people in trials like this," says Marius, unexpectedly. "And you wouldn't have to make the decision until after you'd got everybody back, anyway. So you'd have some time to think about the best way to do it. We could get my grandfather's lawyers involved, they could protect you."

Grantaire and Enjolras look at him, and Marius goes pink. "I think it's a good idea," he says, looking staunch but embarrassed. "And... and I think Eponine would as well."

Enjolras frowns, "Of all of us, Eponine was always one of the least willing to go public. She hated the idea."

Marius hesitates, "I've never spoken to her about it, really. She doesn't like—well, you know Ponine. She didn't like talking about the important stuff. But I think this server is…telling”

"She collected the information to get us closer to finding them," says Enjolras. "She said so herself."

"I know that's what she said," says Marius, rolling his eyes. “But you know Ponine. She won’t tell a lie but she’ll talk around the truth. You know this server, this database, it isn't set up like a... a map. Or instructions on how to find them. It's set up like evidence for a court case. Like…like proof for a piece of investigative journalism. She didn't just leave you a note that said, 'the Institute is working with the government,' she left you a watertight criminal allegation."

Marius's eyes are wide and entreating. Enjolras looks at Grantaire and sighs, "Do you agree?"

"Yes," says Grantaire. "And so do you."

Enjolras, ever the pursuant of justice, is advocating for their family. He's saying what they can both imagine their family would be saying, if they were here. But Grantaire knows that Enjolras has always wanted to drag the tangled, knotted fact of their lives into the sunlight, lay it bare with truth and recrimination.

Enjolras smiles ruefully and rubs his face. "I do. But 'because I want to' isn't actually a good enough reason to do something that's going to have a…cataclysmic effect on all of our lives."

Grantaire grins at him, fond. "Look at you! You know what that is, Enjolras, that's growth."

Enjolras rolls his eyes, and looks at Marius. "Is this something we could actually do? Feasibly?"

"Yes," says Marius, voice firm and decisive in a way it isn't often. Journalism student, Grantaire remembers, some long-ago conversation with Eponine ringing dully in the back of his mind. "Absolutely," he continues. "The way Eponine's set it up? Ridiculously easy. This server is secure, it's anonymous, it’s backed up, and it allows for remote access. If we collate the data from your Paris friends, the database Eponine has, and—if we can get it—evidence from this new Institute? We'd have a stronger case than even Wikileaks had. My grandfather…He always wanted me to be a lawyer. I mean, I did the first year at law school, until I couldn’t handle it anymore. But when he realised I was serious about the journalism thing, he got me internships at a few big places. No grandson of mine is going to work for Buzzyfeed," Marius rolls his eyes and grins. "I've got contacts at the Guardian, my grandfather plays golf with the editor of the Telegraph—"

Marius breaks off, because it looks for a moment like Enjolras is truly going to have some kind of seizure at the mere mention of his least favourite British broadsheet.

"The Telegraph," he mouths, raising his eyes to heaven.

"They were friends at—“ Marius nearly chokes with the effort of keeping his next words in his throat, and looks at Grantaire for help, eyes bulging. Grantaire raises his hands, the universal signal for surrender now, you fucking fool.

"Eton?" asks Enjolras, with a manic kind of look in his eye. "Were you going to say Eton, Marius?”

"Enjolras, everyone in here went to a very expensive London high school, this train compartment is a very fragile glass house at the moment,” says Grantaire. Given that Marius is going above and beyond to help them, he doesn’t feel like now is the time to berate him for his grandfather’s peerage.

Enjolras subsides, but grumpily. "Honestly, Marius," he mutters. "It's a good thing our sisters like you."

"Hey!" Marius protests. "I'm not a Tory."

Grantaire gestures for him to shut up, concerned that the subject of neoliberalism might make an appearance in the train carriage, all the while keeping a wary eye on the vein in Enjolras's temple. One of the most awkward things Grantaire has ever personally experienced, in his entire life, had been the moment when Marius had tried to profess that Tony Blair 'wasn't all bad', and Combeferre, of all people, had instigated a full-on verbal brawl.

"The Guardian!" Grantaire says, encouragingly. "They broke Wikileaks and Cambridge Analytica, didn’t they? Surely they'll run with it. It has all their favourite things. Conspiracy, human rights violations, the works!"

Marius tears his gaze away from Enjolras's vein, and nods at Grantaire. "Right. I think we could even get the news to break internationally if we played our cards right."

"It'd have to be pretty quick on the tail of us getting everybody out of there, for it to work effectively at protecting us from fallout," Enjolras says. "Last time, Valjean and Javert got us out of the country within hours. They protected us, gave us new identities. But the Institute knows who we are now—we have lives, and I'm not going to spend mine on the run from them. If we want to stop...the SAS, or some other black ops group, dropping out of the skies to arrest us for breaking into a military site, we're going to need the news to spread almost as soon as we have the data."

Grantaire nods and asks Marius, "Is that possible?"

"Theoretically, yes. If you transmit the data to me while you're still in the building, then I could have it organised and sent to every newsroom in the country while you're still getting everybody out. That gives you another layer of protection. If something goes wrong and you guys get trapped in there, it gives me something to work with to get people on-side and get you out.”

Grantaire and Enjolras both look at Marius for a quiet moment, and Grantaire can tell what they're both thinking.

Even if they both get stuck in there, even if they get killed, and Valjean and Javert are stuck in prison forever, Marius will never stop fighting for them. They can hear it in his voice, in the way he casually uses the words 'we' and 'us’. Marius will never mourn Cosette and Eponine and all the rest of them quietly in his grandfather's living room. He’ll keep trying to get them out until the Institute comes for him, too—and good fucking luck to them, Marius’s grandfather is not a force to be fucked with, and he would not take kindly to his beloved grandson disappearing. Grantaire wonders, vaguely, if the luckiest thing Cosette ever did was fall in love with this absolute noodle of a man.

"Thank you, Marius," says Enjolras with quiet sincerity.

Marius looks puzzled. “What for?” he asks.

Enjolras smiles and shakes his head. “Nothing, it’s fine.”

They subside back into silence, with only occasional interjections. Between them, Grantaire and Enjolras craft a fully referenced cover letter that summarises and sources all the data in Eponine’s server. They link in everything—the proof of international governmental conspiracy, the vulnerable women from Paris and London, the links between the Jondrettes-slash-Thernadiers and the government, the pregnancies themselves, and the researchers in charge of experimenting on them. They go back over the old data from the first Institute, anonymising it, and then they describe, with objective clarity, the conditions of their imprisonment and escape. They detail the experiments carried out, and the day-to-day minutiae of their childhood lives.

“What about copycats?” Enjolras asks after a while, frowning. “What if we accidentally start a second Cold War—some kind of armaments race for mutated child soldiers? Once the cat’s out of the bag… What’s to stop everybody from doing the same thing?”

“I think the science is probably already out there,” Grantaire says slowly. “We know for sure that the States, France, and the UK are all in on this. Do we really think other countries aren’t doing it too? It’s just that right now they’re doing it without any accountability. If we pull this out into the open then people have the chance to investigate and prosecute. Like…since when is making war crimes known a bad thing? And if other people do start to get in on the gross medical malpractice…Well then, it isn’t our fault for giving them the idea! They’re shitty people who would always have done it if they’d had access to the science, and that means it was only a matter of time. If more people know about it then we have a greater chance of stopping them.  Don’t you think we have a moral responsibility? We’re the only ones that can do this.”

By the end of his speech, Grantaire is talking fast and his hands are flying around his face in a cloud of gesticulation and both Marius and Enjolras are staring at him. Marius, as usual, looks like a frightened fish. Enjolras looks like he’s about to start tearing off Grantaire’s clothes with his teeth, but, like, philosophically. 

Grantaire drops his hands into his lap self-consciously, and goes back to staring at the laptop screen.

“I agree, by the way,” says Enjolras, leaning against him in a way that makes Grantaire’s stomach leap.

“I know you agree,” mutters Grantaire, feeling his cheeks warm just a little. “You’re a sucker for human rights.”

Enjolras snorts and tucks himself closer to Grantaire.

"You know, if we are going to go public," says Enjolras carefully, “we need to make sure we leave the Institute itself intact.”

Grantaire hums his agreement. 

"I hate the idea of leaving it in place," Enjolras continues, grimacing. “One of the most comforting things for me when we were younger was that we blew the last one up. Just the idea that it wasn't still standing—"

Grantaire nods—he knows exactly what Enjolras means. There's something to be said for not giving nightmares too much structural integrity to latch onto.

"But—“ Enjolras continues. “But it's evidence, right? We're not just trying to stop them in the short term. That means we need to trust that people will put pressure on the government to investigate, to have an inquiry. And it'll be easier to do that if we have physical, you know, tangible, evidence. If we destroy it there will always be people who’ll say— ‘well there could have been anything there, we'll never know’.”

Grantaire nods, "You're right. And it simplifies our plan. Get in, get the others, get the data, get out." He frowns, a thought occurred to him, “And hope to hell that Bahorel and Feuilly haven’t already started ripping the place to bits, I guess.”

Enjolras grimaces in agreement.

There’s quiet for a while, while they all work at their respective screens. But something has been scratching at the back of Grantaire’s mind all day, and he needs to get it out. 

“What do you think Montparnasse’s end game is?” he asks. 

Enjolras looks up, frowning. “I don’t know him anywhere near as well as you do,” he says. “What do you mean?”

Grantaire chews his lip and stares vacantly out the window. “It’s just…Montparnasse doesn’t do selfless.”

Enjolras raises an eyebrow with just a touch of judgement. “I mean...people aren’t fixed entities. They can do things that are unexpected. Maybe you should give him the benefit of the doubt?”

Grantaire shakes his head. “I’m not making a moral judgement on him. Montparnasse is as good a person as it’s physically possible for him to be. But when your whole world is survival, and you can’t trust anybody…selflessness is a weakness you really can’t afford.”

Enjolras frowns, unconvinced.

“The razers, they’re not…like us,” says Grantaire. “They weren’t socialised like us. The Institute did some pretty heinous stuff to the flock, but interpersonally we were pretty much left alone to get on with it. It’s why we cared about each other so much—it improved our chances of survival, it’s what kept us sane. For the razers, it was the opposite. They played them off against each other, gave them a limited amount of resources and made them scrap it out. You know, when the Institute wanted me to do something, they’d threaten you, or one of the others. When the Institute wanted Montparnasse to do something, all they had to do was withhold food from him for a week, because that was enough—that was a death sentence.”

“But he’s not at the Institute any more,” says Enjolras. “Maybe he just wants us to bring it down so that they won’t bring him back in.”

Grantaire shakes his head. “If they let Montparnasse out on field missions, then it must be because they have some kind of hold over him, something with enough of a pull to make him come back, time and time again. I’ve been thinking about it since you said, you know, what does Montparnasse need me for? Because you’re right! If he’d wanted to just run, he could have run! Why, of all the places he could have gone, is he hiding out with the one group of people that we know for sure the Institute already knows about? The only group of people, outside of us, who are still at large and at risk to them? Why did he risk breaking into the Thernadiers’ house for us?”

Enjolras shakes his head frowning. “I don’t know.”

Grantaire sighs. “Me neither. But I can’t shake the feeling that we’re being manipulated.”

They work on, and the night darkens as they speed further and further north. Only the light of passing cities gives them any sense of their speed or direction. Grantaire is reminded of the illumination of Paris and Amiens from above, the shining beacon of Calais. How long ago had that been? Not only two days, surely? It feels like a lifetime.

Enjolras is summarising the information that Grantaire had sent to Valjean when they were still back in the Institute. At the time, all he’d wanted was to prove to Valjean that his claims were real, but thinking back to the moment—sitting at the computer, twelve years old, trying to figure out how emails worked—Grantaire is faintly impressed at his own strategic thinking. Then again, he had been trained as a child soldier. A lot of that training has dissipated over the years—he’d probably been smarter and quicker on his feet at twelve than he ever will be again. But he's alright with that; he has less nightmares now.

He wonders if they’re still training kids to be weapons. If this new Institute is full of twelve year olds who wake screaming and know every flavour of pain down to their bones. Kids who are sent out into the night, into a world that’s completely alien to them, to kill people on command. He wonders, guiltily, if that might be the way to get the public to care about this.

Forget the government-mandated military experiments on children, forget kidnapping and killing innocent women. If Grantaire has learned anything from Enjolras shouting at Question Time all these years, it’s that the Great British Public is more than happy to turn a blind eye to the suffering of the vulnerable. Give them half a minute and a twitter handle and they'll find a way to defend it. But government weapons running rogue? Killing innocent middle class people in their nice white-picket houses? That'd give even the most boot-licking of Daily Mail readers something to get frothing about.

So Grantaire writes about his own training: the exercises, the strategy games, the torture. He details his and Montparnasse’s murder mission—everything he remembers about that horrible, nightmarish interlude. He writes about the implications of a private corporation with government funding training child soldiers as weapons of destruction. He writes everything he remembers, and the words flow out of him like blood. Once he's done he stares at his childhood—rendered in black and white, serif and kerning—and feels stripped raw.  The people who read the facts of his life will see more than the brief outline he’s given them. Much as the shape of the Institute is visible in the stark space left by hospital bed suppliers and human trafficking rings, the shape of Grantaire is clearly discernible in the line breaks between paragraphs about mazes with electric floors, mangled wings, and timed escape attempts. He remembers Dahlia advocating for journal keeping, and can't imagine that this is how she would have recommended opening up about his oceans of trauma: to an international audience of every journalist Marius can get to answer his emails. Grantaire has been invisible his whole life, he doesn't want to be seen.

Worse than hundreds of thousands of anonymous people knowing is the thought of his family knowing. The thought of having to look Combeferre or Joly or Feuilly in the eye and see the knowledge locked in there, see the pity and the horror. He'd rather bleed quietly to death than face that possibility, but he doesn't have a choice: people need to understand the threat. People have to know that they can be in their houses, sleeping quietly in bed, with their children down the hall, and be killed in a routine training operation. People need to know, so that they can hold the people who pull the strings accountable.

Grantaire hands the laptop to Enjolras, who frowns at him quizzically.

"Proof read it for me?" Grantaire asks quietly.

Their eyes meet, and Enjolras's expression goes still. He takes the laptop wordlessly, with a kind of quiet resolution in his gaze, as if he already knows what he's about to read.

Grantaire decides that he's a coward, actually, and that he can't bear to watch.

"I'm going to go find some more tea," he says.

Enjolras hesitates, his eyes flickering up towards Grantaire, before nodding. "Okay."

"I'll be right back."

"I believe you," Enjolras says, with a small, sad smile.

Grantaire makes his escape.

&

He makes his way along to the lounge car. The decor is old fashioned, with red carpets, dark wooden fittings, and old leather couches. He shuffles up to the bar and extracts a complementary styrofoam cup of tea from the tired-looking bar staff. Then he settles down at the deserted end of the carriage to sip on his scalding black tea.

On a purely millennial impulse, he takes out his new burner phone. Marius had paid cash for three cheap phones in a shop in Euston station after they’d jointly decided they needed some way to contact each other if they got separated. By the time Grantaire's conscious brain catches up to the fact that his new phone can just about muster the effort required to launch an SMS into the void, but that Instagram is wildly out-with its capabilities, he's already spinning it idly between his fingers.

Then, in one of those strange synchronous moments that happens sometimes, the phone starts to ring.

Given that it's a private number and Grantaire currently has the literal government after him, he answers with some trepidation.

"Heeeello?"

"It's me," says Montparnasse drily.

"Oh good, not the government."

"No, but I'm interested to hear what you would have said if it was."

"Probably 'wrong number', I’m not going to lie."

"Yes," says Montparnasse. "That does sound like you."

Grantaire shifts back onto the couch. "I feel like aspersions are being cast upon my character here."

"Oh, you'll know when I start casting aspersions."

"Very threatening. Consider me threatened." Grantaire takes a sip of his tea and burns his tongue. "Ah, shit! Fuck, that was hot."

"My confidence in you grows by the second,” drawls Montparnasse.

"What can I do for you, Parnasse?"

“Just thought I’d see how you were getting on with your plans,” he says, voice curling with irony.

Grantaire frowns. “We just texted Claquesous and Mardisoir with an update, are you not with them?”

“Popped out for a bit,” says Montparnasse idly.

“…Right,” says Grantaire, after a pause. 

“So…your plan?” prompts Montparnasse.

“We don’t really…have one, for getting in,” says Grantaire. “Not yet. We’re just going to turn up and see if we can get in by stealth. See how it goes.”

There’s a damning silence on the other end of the line.

“But!” he adds. “We do have a plan for how to stop the Institute in the long run.”

There’s more silence; Grantaire grimaces. 

"We want to go public about them," he continues. "We think that it might be the only way to stop them recouping their losses and starting again, like last time. We'd keep all the data about you and all the other razers anonymous. But we'll publish the names of the scientists. There's even some home addresses—they won’t get away with it.“ Grantaire, floundering, falls back on appealing to Montparnasse's inherent vengefulness—before uncomfortably and belatedly remembering that that had probably been what the Institute had been betting on, when they’d sent Montparnasse after Grantaire.

Grantaire stops talking, and Montparnasse lounges in the silence that follows as if it's a warm bath. Grantaire has to wonder if this is all part of Montparnasse’s interrogation training—wielding conversational pauses in such a way as to make the other participant want to peel their own skin off.

Eventually, he replies, and his tone is sardonic. “So let me get this straight. You’re going to tell the world that there are mutated, super-powered humans who’ve been trained as secret weapons, and then say, ‘but we’re not going to tell you their names’?”

Grantaire should have guessed that Montparnasse would immediately put his finger on the most troubling element of the whole endeavour. He doesn’t reply; Montparnasse doesn’t seem to need one.

“Is that part of your plan?” asks Montparnasse quietly. “To use us as the boogeymen?”

“No!” says Grantaire. “Well...no. For some people—most people—the kidnapping and the killing and the child-torturing thing…that’ll be enough, more than enough, to make them demand something be done. But for others, the fact that they’re not safe from the government, that nobody is safe, that this isn’t just something that happens to other people…that might be what they need to push them into doing something.”

Grantaire realises, with a sinking sensation, that he won't be able to go through with this if Montparnasse tells him not to. It hadn't even occurred to him earlier, when he’d been sitting with Enjolras and Marius, but just because their family aren’t here doesn’t mean there aren’t other players in the game with veto power. And he can't go against Montparnasse in this—he can't betray him again.

“They’ll hunt us down,” says Montparnasse neutrally. “It’ll be open season.”

“I don’t think so,” Grantaire says uncomfortably, aware that he can’t make any promises. “But I’m not saying there aren’t any risks.”

Montparnasse is quiet, inscrutable.

“We think it’s worth the risk,” Grantaire says, carefully. “But if you don’t, we won’t do it.”

Montparnasse pauses for so long, Grantaire starts to wonder if there's some kind of delay in their connection.

"Why?" he says finally.

"Why, what?" asks Grantaire, confused.

"Why does what I think matter?"

"Well, because. Because this is your life as well as ours we're talking about making public. Even with everything completely anonymised, there’s still a risk. You deserve a say. If this isn't something you want to do…that's important."

"Why do you want to do it?" Montparnasse asks with idle curiosity.

Grantaire is certain now, that Montparnasse has had some kind of training in this. Every sentence out his mouth is a question with a trap door in it.

"Because I want them to suffer,” says Grantaire simply. “I want them to run scared. I want them to not be able to trust anyone, and feel like there's always someone out to get them, around every dark corner. I want them to feel as unsafe as they made us feel. And I want them to never have the opportunity to do this ever again. And the only way to do that, as far as I can see, is to set society on them."

"You have high hopes for society," says Montparnasse neutrally.

"I..." Grantaire doesn't know what to do with that accusation; it isn't one that's been levelled at him before. "I don't, generally, but—“

Montparnasse breaks across him, and it's the first sign Grantaire's seen that he's at all emotionally invested in the proceedings.

"This whole operation is being funded by the government, you know that right? The government that the people of this country voted for. Assisted every step of the way by the military and corporate enterprise. You should have seen how bold they were with your little flock. They walked straight into their houses, in broad daylight, and loaded them into vans. Nobody hesitated, nobody objected. What part of this society are we supposed to trust exactly? Nobody gives a shit. We are alone. All we do, by publishing this shit, is put ourselves more at risk. Can't you see the headlines now? 'Dangerous wolf-people running loose? They need to be locked up! They need to be destroyed!’"

Montparnasse goes silent again, as if he's given too much away and regrets it.

Grantaire takes a deep breath. It's started to rain outside, gentle distortions of light. Grantaire feels colder just looking at it. 

"I'm not going to argue with you about the government’s willingness to commit atrocities. I agree, alright? People in power will pretty much do whatever they want. But there's a reason they did it secretly."

In the back of Grantaire's mind lives the towering figures of Valjean, Javert and Myriel: three men who uprooted their lives to provide, at the drop of a hat, a decade and counting of love and support and kindness for thirteen children. In Grantaire's mind lives Claquesous, who’d stormed into his cafe ready to tear the world apart, and Mardisoir, who went looking for somebody’s daughter and refused to stop, no matter the cost to herself, and the whole of Patron Minette—some of the most crooked and self-interested people Grantaire has ever met—who’ve helped him, and put themselves in danger for him, without his even asking. In Grantaire's mind lives Dahlia, with her bright, cosy office, and Floreal, and her dance studio, and Marius with his big dopey bambi-eyes and pink ears and fathomless love for Cosette and Eponine.  In Grantaire’s mind lives Mabeuf and Plutarch and the Hauches. Good people, people who cared.

"There are good people out there, Montparnasse,” says Grantaire. “There are a lot of people who will care. They'll... write op-eds about it. And talk about how terrible it is on twitter, and with their friends. People will write to their MPs. People will march in the streets! If we give people a chance, they'll care."

Montparnasse laughs with genuine, dark, amusement. “You’re a fucking idiot if you believe that,” he says. "How long did I spend in that Institute? My whole fucking life. None of you ever made any attempt to get us out. To do the right thing. Do you consider yourself to be a good person? I mean, I'd have kept my head down too, if I was you. But I'm not going to sit and listen to a fairytale about how people care about me, really, deep down. No one gives a single shit about me or you. And if they did know about me, they'd probably want to put me down. So you tell the whole world if you want, I don’t care. But don't come crying to me when they call for our execution."

The old, familiar guilt hits Grantaire fresh and violent, like a brick to the face.

“I’m sorry,” says Grantaire hoarsely. "I really am…The Institute was destroyed. I wouldn't have known where to begin looking for you..."

There’s one of those long, telling pauses again, and Grantaire's heart sinks.

“Mmm,” drawls Montparnasse. “And yet, look how long it took you to find your friends! We haven’t even hit the forty-eight hour mark yet, how interesting.” He sounds faintly disgusted by Grantaire’s attempts at self-delusion.

“In any case,” he continues briskly, “it wouldn’t have helped if you had tried. Your plan is awful and I can’t imagine it would have been any better when you were twelve.”

“Our plan—” Grantaire begins.

“Turn up and see what happens?” Montparnasse says mockingly. “Really?”

“What else should we do, Parnasse?” asks Grantaire. “We don’t know anything about this Institute apart from its address!”

“You could ask me,” says Montparnasse. “Given that I’ve lived there for the past ten years.” 

Grantaire’s train of thought comes to an abrupt, staggering halt.

“You…have?” he asks, stunned. “But you said you didn’t know where it was?”

“I don’t,” says Montparnasse casually. “I was always loaded into a blacked out van whenever they wanted me to go somewhere.”

“So…” Grantaire frowns. “How do you know this is the same place as where you’ve been kept?”

“Well, it was somewhere wet, and cold, with lots of green and hills around about. Close to mainland Europe. Everyone there spoke English...I took an educated guess.”

Grantaire tries his best to keep his irritation out of his voice. “You couldn’t have brought this up earlier?”

“Well,” says Montparnasse, with an audible grin. “I’m not on a time scale. I wanted to see how far you’d get. And, as I said, it’s not like I knew for sure, although I was pretty sure it was the UK.”

Grantaire takes a deep, steadying breath. “Fine. What do you think I need to know?”

“Well, what’s your plan?” says Montparnasse. “You show up, you get your friends, and then you leave?”

Grantaire grinds his teeth together—trying to get information out of Montparnasse is like trying to herd cats.

 “We need to get as much data as we can, too,” Grantaire says. “To help our case.” 

“Mm,” says Montparnasse neutrally. “And what about the kids?”

Grantaire gets that sinking sensation again. “They’ve got more kids?”

“Um, yes? What do you think this place is for? Do you think these people spend their time sitting around twirling their evil moustaches?”

“Apart from scientists, who else is in the facility?” Grantaire asks. Maybe direct questions will yield more results.

“It’s protected by a private security team of about thirty men, who live on site,” says Montparnasse almost mechanically. 

Grantaire scrambles over to the bar, grabs a napkin, and retreats back to his seat, digging a pen out of his pocket to take notes.

Montparnasse continues, “The facility is an old military site but it’s not actually run by the state military—I assume because military personnel are theoretically required to uphold the Geneva convention. So, private army, mostly ex-military or police. They’re armed mostly with non-lethal weapons, although they do have guns, they prefer to use tasers and mace—wouldn’t want to damage the merchandise.”

“That’s…a lot of security.”

“The rest of the—what is it you lot call us…razers? The kids from our original Institute, anyway, they’re mostly still around, although there’s only seven of us now. They’ve tried to escape twice over the years, in addition to the time when you blew up the original Institute. Both times, lots of scientists lost limbs—apparently it was very traumatic for them—so they started keeping lots of tough men with guns on the premises.”

“The razers tried to escape twice more?” Grantaire asks quietly.

“Yes! And failed, spectacularly!” says Montparnasse with dark, false cheerfulness. “It was very unpleasant for everyone involved.”

“You said there were children, too—”

“I’m getting there. We, the originals, are mostly used as arms-for-hire.  They rent us out to whoever, and we do the murder or the kidnap or whatever, and then we go back in our box. But we’re just the revenue stream. The Institute is still mostly interested in experimenting, and that’s where the new kids come in. There’s six of them—different ages, all under thirteen—Barre, Demi, Cara, Elle, Pan and Finn.”

“Shit,” Grantaire breathes. He’d always known it was a possibility that there were more children in the Institute, but knowing for a fact—hearing their names—crushes him with guilt. “Are they like, uh—Us? Or you?”

Montparnasse pauses, and when he does speak, his voice is ice cold. “Does it matter?”

“No!” says Grantaire. “I was just wondering—”

“They’re like me,” he says, and Grantaire definitely thinks he can hear rage there, in Montparnasse’s voice, hastily buried. “Razers. Apparently it eventually occurred to them that imprisoning people with wings was a dumb fucking idea.”

“Was Azelma one of that group?” Grantaire asks, carefully.

“Yes,” says Montparnasse.

“Why is she with you?” Grantaire asks. “If she was part of the group that was being experimented on?”

Montparnasse pauses for such a long time that Grantaire wonders if the call has been cut off. 

Eventually he says, “She’s the oldest. I’m not exactly in the loop vis a vis their evil plans, but I assume they’re getting ready to transition her into the revenue stream.” Montparnasse’s voice is hard as stone. 

There’s something Montparnasse isn’t telling him, Grantaire’s sure of it—there’s got to be something in the shape of all the things Montparnasse has said and done in the past few hours that explains his motives. He thinks about Montparnasse saying to Azelma, I told you to stay, and pacing around Grantaire’s kitchen until he found her something to eat. He thinks about Montparnasse when they were children, holding out a hand to pull Grantaire up and out of a panic attack, dragging Grantaire to safety through a maze. He thinks about what he’d said to Enjolras, not two hours previously: the Institute must have something with enough pull to make Montparnasse come back. And, also, Montparnasse is as good a person as it is physically possible for him to be.

“Are you worried about the kids?” Grantaire blurts out, with all the grace and sensitivity of a small bull elephant.

Montparnasse doesn’t pause, even for a second. “No,” he says, in a voice that’s calm and cool. “They’re none of my business.”

Grantaire, for the first time in the conversation, is certain he’s being lied to.

“We’ll get them out, Parnasse,” he says, trying to imbue his words with the sincerity he feels. “I promise.”

That startles a bark of hard, bitter laughter out of Montparnasse. “You promise? What the fuck do you think your promises mean, to me?”

“It doesn’t have to mean anything,” says Grantaire quietly. “I’d be surprised if it did, to be honest. But I mean it. I won’t leave the Institute without them. No one gets left behind, not this time.”

There’s another silence, and this one manages to contain fury and disbelief in equal measure.

“About the Institute itself…” says Grantaire.

“Take notes, cause I’m not going to repeat myself,” growls Montparnasse. “The wire fencing goes up and over the building, so it’s impossible to fly in or out. The building is split into two wings, same as before—”

&

By the time Grantaire makes his way back to his and Enjolras’s carriage, Marius has clearly retreated to his own to get some rest.

Enjolras looks pale and drawn as he makes room for Grantaire on the bed beside him. “Marius has now seen me cry, so thank you, sincerely, for that development,” he says briskly, passing the laptop back to Grantaire.

Grantaire grimaces. “Oh dear.”

“'Oh dear' is right,” says Enjolras, with equal levels of affront and amusement. “I’ve never seen an adult man spontaneously lose higher brain function before, and I never want to again.”

“What did he do?” Grantaire asks, grinning.

“Well, he saw me—very quietly, by the way, very discreetly—getting a bit upset. So obviously he made a noise like a chicken, started sympathy crying, tried to hug me and then spilled his tea down my t-shirt,” says Enjolras matter-of-factly. 

Grantaire notes Enjolras has changed into his pyjamas, and starts to laugh. 

“Poor Marius,” Enjolras sighs.

“Poor Marius,” Grantaire agrees, chuckling.

“Do you want to talk about that just now?” Enjolras asks, indicating the laptop—and Grantaire’s written testimony—with a nod of his head.

“Absolutely not,” says Grantaire promptly.

“I assumed as much.” Enjolras smiles. “But I’m here, you know. Whenever you’re ready.”

Grantaire leans against him for a moment. “I know,” he says, and presses a kiss to Enjolras’s cheek.

Enjolras turns his face at the last moment, and steals a kiss from Grantaire’s lips, then pulls back with a grin.

“Ahh!” Grantaire whisper-shouts. “My virtue! It’s under attack!”

“So what were you doing out there, apart from avoiding me and Marius’s horribly uncomfortable bonding moment?” Enjolras asks, recrimination heavy in his voice.

“Ah,” says Grantaire. “Uh, Montparnasse called.”

Enjolras’s eyebrows shoot upwards.

“He gave me the layout to the school,” says Grantaire, waving his napkin of notes. “And…apparently there are other kids in the school. There’s six of them, I have their names.”

“We’ll probably have to split up then,” says Enjolras with a thoughtful frown. “To get them out too, and—”

Grantaire isn’t fast enough to stop his surprise from showing on his face.

Enjolras breaks off, staring at Grantaire blankly. “What?” he asks. Then a look of faint horror creeps over his face. “You didn’t think you were going to have to convince me to get them out, did you?”

“No—” begins Grantaire hesitantly, but he doesn’t appear to sell it with anything approaching believability.

“Grantaire!” Enjolras says, his voice ringing with real, actual hurt. He turns fully to face Grantaire, his legs crossed on the bed, cupping his socked feet with his hands protectively. Grantaire’s heart clenches with guilt. 

What is he thinking? Of course Enjolras—thoughtful, grown-up Enjolras, who campaigns for Unicef and writes regular essays about rising child poverty levels in the university paper—would never advocate leaving kids behind in cages because they’re the wrong kind of children. Acting as if he is is deeply, deeply unfair—not to mention kinda straight-up stupid. 

“Oh, God, I’m sorry.” Grantaire hugs him. “I’m so sorry, Enjolras. Of course I know you don’t believe that. I’m just...Not giving you the benefit of the doubt. You need to skoosh me with water when that happens.”

Enjolras buries his face in Grantaire’s neck and mimes skooshing him with a spray bottle.

The gentle repetitive noise of the train is soothing, and the dim, warm light of the lamp makes the carriage feel close and safe.

“How are we actually going to do this?” Enjolras asks eventually, looking up at Grantaire through strands of his hair.

Grantaire is, bizarrely, caught on how vulnerable Enjolras’s socked feet look. He can see them, in his mind’s eye, under the kitchen table in their Valjean’s house, curled against the cold tile. In his lap, Enjolras tangled up with him on the sofa, arguing about something on TV. Cold on his legs in the morning, hundreds of thousands of times through their childhoods. Grantaire knows that to the rest of the world Enjolras looks like a competent, intelligent, articulate adult—that he comes across as charismatic, if a little reserved. But Grantaire can’t separate any of that from the layered archeology of Enjolras, eight years old and defiant, fourteen years old and throwing a pillow at Grantaire’s head, sixteen years old crying under a street lamp because of Dominik Taully, of all people. The tenderness Grantaire feels for these pieces of Enjolras takes his breath away. What does it mean to look at a person and see the reflected light of all their realities? Is that all love is, really?

If Enjolras dies tomorrow, Grantaire truly has no idea what he’ll do, and he really doesn’t think it’d be a good idea to find out. There are some things a person can’t recover from—he knows that well enough.

He takes a deep breath and, together, they begin to work out a plan.

Comments bring me so much joy!!! so if ya wanna say hello and you're wondering "should I?" please take this as your benevolent nod from the universe to do so :') 

I live at starkey.tumblr.com! come screm at me

~

There are hardly any trigger warnings for this chapter!

General warnings for content throughout:
- References to the events of the previous chapters and all that that entails
- Explicit conversations about anxiety, depression, unhealthy relationships and coping strategies from the previous chapters

- Tadaaah!- Thank you everybody for still being here and commenting and kudosing <3 I've said it before but people enjoying this fic is literally the only reason I came back to it after so long! - Thank you to fiver for beta reading/letting me rant/just generally being the best :')- Pleaaaase check the end notes first if you have any triggers related to violence!- Playlist for this chapter if anyone's interested lol- The epilogue will be up in a few days - it's just a little 10k to tie things up! We're nearly at the end!!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


When Grantaire wakes the next morning, sunlight is pouring in the window, and Enjolras’s hair is in his face. For one blinding, brilliant moment, he has his arms around the person he loves more than anything, and the world is quiet and far removed.

Then the world filters back in, and so does the fear, panic and dread. To his surprise, they don’t extinguish the little flame of happiness. Instead, through some strange kind of alchemy, it coalesces into an alloy of searing conviction—he’s going to get his family back today. He’s decided.

He presses his lips to Enjolras’s cheek, and rolls carefully out from underneath him. Then he grabs a granola bar from his rucksack, settles down on the edge of the bed, and opens Eponine’s laptop. Last night, before exhaustion had pulled them under, there had still been a lot of the database left to work on—they’d reluctantly agreed to go to sleep with it unfinished and hope like hell that Marius’s grandfather’s hunting lodge has semi-decent wifi. However, this morning—for reasons Grantaire can’t quite parse yet—all the information from Paris has been uploaded, and all the data on the server is neatly linked and categorised.

Grantaire reaches blindly for the phone; Claquesous picks up on the first ring.

“Are you dead?” Claquesous asks, sounding ratty.

“No—” Grantaire starts.

“Then why the fuck are you calling me?”

“Did you guys finish the database last night?”

“Yes, clearly. And I got to sleep about an hour ago, so if you’d be so fucking kind…”

“Oh,” says Grantaire, pressing his fingers to his own smiling lips. “Thank you, Sous, really—”

“Please,” says Claquesous, very seriously. “Do not mention it.”

“Okay,” says Grantaire, grinning.

“Are you almost there?” Claquesous asks.

“Yeah,” says Grantaire. “We’ll get into the station soon. Then we just have to drive west for a while.”

Claquesous makes a small sound of assent.

“Did Montparnasse leave?” Grantaire asks, knowing the answer.

“Yeah, he took off,” says Claquesous with a sigh. “Left the kid, though, which…not sure what we’re going to do about that. Depeche is looking after her.”

“Good,” says Grantaire. Depeche is the only member of Patron Minette who even remotely has her shit together. 

“Right.” 

“Well, I should go,” says Grantaire reluctantly.

“Right,” Claquesous says again. And then, in a tone that implies that saying the words out loud physically pains him. “Look after yourself, alright? Don’t do anything stupid. If you get yourself killed, I’ll fire you.”

“I thought I was already fired,” says Grantaire with a small grin.

“Well—” That seems to stump him. “I’ll fire you again. Good luck explaining that to the tax office.”

Grantaire laughs softly. “Okay, noted.”

“Seriously, kid. It’s difficult to find secretaries, you know. Even shit ones with wings.”

Grantaire laughs again. “I got it. Don’t die. Don’t get caught.”

“Words to live by. Don’t say I never taught you nothing.”

“Never.”

They hang up, and the smile lingers on Grantaire’s face as he gazes out the window at the speeding countryside. 

Grantaire has only been to Scotland once before now, on a trip with the rest of the flock. At least twice a year, Valjean and Javert had taken them to the countryside so that they could fly. Usually they went to Dartmoor or the South Downs, but they'd also been to Snowdonia, the Lake District, the Yorkshire Dales, and, once, to the Cairngorms in Scotland.

Grantaire remembers sitting curled up in an armchair, in the draughty old-fashioned farmhouse they’d rented, with Valjean and Javert playing bridge at the table behind him. He remembers watching the flames of the log fire flicker and dance, earphones blasting early-Noughties rock music, marinating in a truly miserable stew of jealousy, anger and spite. He’d expended huge amounts of energy trying to conceal those feelings from the rest of his family when they’d poured through the doors several hours later, spilling cold night air into the warm, fire-lit living room, their faces pink from the chill, and pure, unconcealed joy. Enjolras had slipped between Grantaire and the arm of the chair, pressing his cold limbs against Grantaire's warm, pyjama-clad ones, and asked what Grantaire was listening to. Grantaire had made a mean joke about how it wasn't an educational podcast and therefore probably wasn't productive enough to be worthy of Enjolras’s time, and some of the joy had slipped off of Enjolras's face.

Grantaire hadn't known that that image was still sitting, stark and vivid, pressed between the pages of his memory. The Enjolras of today is curled up in his duvet like a human burrito, his hair fanning across the pillow, his lips downturned with a soft sadness, even in sleep. Grantaire tastes guilt sharp like acetone in the back of his throat—why hadn’t he been able to let Enjolras be happy, just that once? He’s tempted to wake him up and apologise, but that would truly be adding insult to injury—Enjolras probably doesn’t even remember the moment; their teenage years had been filled with so much banal meanness, it hardly stands out.

Grantaire will just have to do better in future. If he has a future.

&

They get off the train at 10am, stepping into the cool air of Inverness train station. It’s small and quiet compared to the bustle of Euston, and it pops them out very quickly onto the little town high street. They grab coffees and pastries from a cafe across the road from a unicorn on a plinth.

Grantaire feels thin and cold and stretched from lack of sleep. Next to him, Enjolras looks dull-eyed and somehow undersaturated. Grantaire has always been impervious to Enjolras’s natural luminance but he suspects that right now those powers would be at the ebbing, flickering light-bulb end of luster.

Grantaire reaches out and squeezes Enjolras’s hand, because that’s something that he can do now, and Enjolras squeezes back.

They walk ten minutes out of the town centre, towards the industrial area, and find the car hire shop that Marius found online last night.

Grantaire feels claustrophobic and cramped in the little office, so he waits outside while Marius and Enjolras sort out all the paperwork. When they exit, Marius is looking a bit green. Grantaire trails them down a row of parked cars towards a line of huge four-by-four Jeeps.

“Have you ever driven anything like this?” Enjolras asks with concern, eyeing the Jeep and apparently momentarily forgetting that Marius, being landed gentry, probably didn’t learn to drive in a 2007 Corsa.

Marius, demonstrating once again his uncanny ability to incriminate himself in class warfare whenever he opens his mouth, says, “Oh, yeah. I learned to drive in the hunting lodge Jeep.”

Enjolras turns to smile with mild mania at Grantaire.

Marius is not what Grantaire would call a confident or, if pressed, a particularly good driver. There’s a lot of hesitance, a fair amount of stalling, and his preferred speed appears to be ‘thirty miles an hour under the speed limit’. Nevertheless they make it out of Inverness, which Grantaire considers a minor miracle, and drive west towards Marius’s grandfather’s estate.

The road plunges them deep into a forest and then back out again, across moors strewn with gorse and heather. After a while, the main road narrows to two lanes, hugging large, sky-blue bodies of still water. Then it narrows again, down to a single track, and winds its way around rocky outcrops in a precarious and dizzying manner. Eventually, the car pulls out of another patch of woods and onto a vast headland, looking down over a long sweeping gorge. Lilac-sepia hills rise like giants in the distance, and off on the horizon there’s a glint of light on water—Marius identifies it as Loch Broom.

Enjolras, who has been guiding Marius with instructions from the Jeep’s complementary Sat Nav, says, “Uh, Marius, I think your house is somewhere…generally off to the left. There doesn’t seem to actually be a road.”

“Hope that’s not a problem, Marius!” says Grantaire brightly.

“Oh no,” says Marius, rendered oblivious to irony by the force of his concentration. “This is Scotland.”

Grantaire and Enjolras exchange an amused and exasperated glance, respectively.

“Alright,” says Enjolras through his teeth. “Well. Next turn off is somewhere on your left then.”

“Got it,” mutters Marius.

Then, approximately three and a half minutes later, he shrieks wordlessly and wrenches the car into an emergency stop. Enjolras, who had been holding the Sat Nav in his hand, smacks it into his own face. Grantaire, who had been leaning forward between the front seats, suddenly finds himself garrotted by his seat belt.

“Jesus Christ,” chokes Grantaire from his crumpled position half on the middle seat, half on the floor.

“Did we hit something?” Enjolras asks, rubbing his nose.

“Sorry, no, I missed the turn off, sorry,” Marius says, reversing the car up the single track, blind-corner road. Grantaire and Enjolras flail simultaneously for the grab handles above the doors, staring out the back window of the car in mute horror.

Marius stops suddenly again, next to a muddy farm track road almost entirely obscured by trees.

“Ah, this is it,” says Marius, with a sigh of relief. Enjolras and Grantaire again exchange a wordless glance.

Marius turns up the road and the Jeep lunges jauntily over huge potholes and large rocks. The track cuts through a thick wood, past some logging access roads, and then the land on either side clears and the track evens out, and all that remains is a long, sweeping driveway that ends in a strip of gravel and an old, grand estate house. Marius parks the car hastily at the top, and they all climb out.

The view across the gorge is so extreme, so expansive and beautiful, that it takes Grantaire’s breath away. Warm autumn light turns the burnt ochre fields golden, the loch in the far distance twinkles gently, and towering mountains loom on the peripheries of the horizons. Grantaire feels like he’s looking at a world rendered in higher definition than he has the ability to process.

Marius joins him in looking out over the gorge.

“Not the kind of place I’d typically characterise as a hunting lodge,” Grantaire notes, with an amused glance over his shoulder at the massive manor house. 

“Oh,” says Marius, blushing. “Well, yes. It’s really the family estate, I suppose. But I thought Enjolras might tease me if I said that.”

Enjolras, lifting their bags out of the car boot, eyes the huge house with abject disdain. 

Grantaire suppresses a laugh. “It’s a beautiful view, though,” he says sincerely. 

“My dad stayed here lots,” Marius says, quietly thoughtful. “When he was younger. I was even born in Scotland. Some of my first memories are sledding down this hill on a tray from the kitchen. But my grandfather doesn’t like it—the estate was technically my grandmother’s, and I think it reminds him of her—when my father and mother died we stopped coming up as much.”

Grantaire knows that Marius’s parents died in a car crash—a normal, mundane kind of tragedy, compared to the ones Grantaire is personally familiar with, but a tragedy that had nonetheless ripped Marius’s life completely asunder. Grantaire wonders if Marius feels the loss more acutely today, through the lens of having lost his girlfriend and his best friend. 

“We should come up on holiday,” says Grantaire. “The others would like it, I’m sure. We try to get away somewhere remote every so often, to stretch our wings, you know.”

Marius smiles gratefully at him. “I’d like that.” 

They head inside.

&

The sun starts to set early, in late afternoon, and Enjolras and Grantaire fly out as the last dregs of light swirl around the basin of the valley.

They fly together, wing tips nearly touching, leaving strange mythical shadows on the ground below. Grantaire can’t help but remember the last time he and Enjolras flew together—it’s been almost ten years since they fled the last Institute, ten years since Grantaire’s trust in Enjolras fractured, and went on fracturing, a Lichtenberg figure that kept spreading through their relationship for years to come. It feels like a lifetime ago; it feels like yesterday.

They fly over rumpled hills, mossy and soft like blankets, and circuit the edges of vast jagged mountains. Water glints at them like pools of glass from far below. Although Grantaire knows that they're flying above the road they’d driven along earlier, laid out beneath them like a carelessly dropped ribbon, he wouldn't recognise it if his bird brain hadn't been keeping tabs. Everything looks so different from the air—the size of the forests and the water and the world so much more understandable.

The last of the sun drops beneath the horizon, and they fly on, confident in their path. They’ve studied the maps, they know what direction they need to head in, and for how long. The glowing rails of latitude and longitude hold them steady. Wordlessly, they veer away from the road and over a forest that glooms at them darkly, and on towards Beinn Dearg. They skirt the edges of the mountain, the ground rising to meet them, and the craggy, barren rock beneath gives the impression that they’re skimming over the surface of a vast, rocky, alien terrain, adrift amongst the stars.

They fly further, past the mountain and into another valley, and the sky darkens, until the ground beneath them is hard to make out, lit only by the odd cottage or car headlight, the warm inverse of the stars above.

Eventually they spot bright white columns of light in the distance, colder and more industrial than the little candle-lights of illumination that represent porch-lights or long drives home. This light is stark and steady, piercing up through the soft twilight of the Scottish countryside. Grantaire and Enjolras turn towards it wordlessly and fly on.

They descend two kilometres away, heeding Montparnasse’s advice about overhead fencing and guard patrols. The ground is bobbled with small hillocks and ankle-turning boggy patches, difficult to cross on foot, especially in the dim light of the newly-risen moon.

They find each other’s hands in the dark and hold on, struggling across the terrain by inches. It feels insanely exposed, to be crawling across open ground in full view of the bright, towering military complex. Grantaire finds that he’s enveloped them in his own shadowy darkness without even noticing. He wonders if anyone looking out the windows of the Institute will be able to see a darker patch of night.

Enjolras glances around. “Are you doing your shadow thing?” he asks, surprised.

Grantaire nods and frowns quizzically. Generally speaking, Enjolras and Grantaire are immune to the effect of each other’s powers—something Grantaire has only had cause to be exceedingly grateful for in the past. He doesn’t think Enjolras being in possession of supernatural levels of charisma would have made his adolescence any easier.

“You can see it?” he asks.

“Just,” says Enjolras, frowning hard at the air in front of him. “It’s easier when I’m not paying attention, I can see it out of the corner of my eye.”

“Huh,” says Grantaire, stumped. “Do I look different? From before I left?”

Enjolras looks at him, and his eyes skate over Grantaire’s features. A very faint blush rises on his cheeks. “What do you mean?”

“Can you see my…shadowiness now? Or whatever it is that the others see when they look at me?”

“Oh,” Enjolras frowns. “No, I don’t think so.”

“Maybe it’s just when I put the power outside of myself?” Grantaire suggests, nimbly dodging a root that’s perfectly placed to trip him.

“Hmm,” Enjolras agrees. “Maybe.” He promptly trips over the root Grantaire just avoided, letting loose a stream of whispered curses. When Grantaire hauls him back up, his jeans are wet from the knee down with bog water.

Enjolras grimaces and says, “Hold on.”

They stop, and Enjolras holds out a hand in front of himself and takes a deep, steadying breath. There’s silence for a moment, and Grantaire becomes aware of how quiet the world is around them—the occasional call of a bird, the whisper of the wind across the moors.

Then, suddenly, blindingly, a ball of warm glowing light flowers into existence in front of them. It sparkles and shifts with the inconstant luminance of a solar flare.

Grantaire looks at Enjolras, who grins.

“You can see it?” Enjolras asks.

“Yeah,” says Grantaire wonderingly, tilting his head back and forwards to look at it. In the same way that he can see his own shadows and not-see them at the same time, so Enjolras’s little light is both there and not-there, bright and dark at the same time—an optical illusion.

“It’s hidden behind yours, I’ve made sure,” Enjolras says. “We’re the only ones who can see it.”

Grantaire concentrates—he can see that too, he thinks. There’s darkness gathered around the small glowing orb, like metal filaments around a magnetic sphere. It’s beautiful, and otherworldly. It feels like they’re observing some kind of strange fundamental law of physics that they don’t have words for—like the ancient Greeks watching an eclipse.

“I’ve been getting better at controlling it,” says Enjolras quietly, as they start to walk again. “Well, first I had to work on my awareness of it, because I used to not even notice when it was happening. And then the control came afterwards. It’s like…not concentrating. I can’t force it, but I have to kind of…not force it in a specific direction.”

Grantaire nods. “That’s how I’ve always felt about my thing. It’s like…consciously thinking about clicking your fingers doesn’t actually click your fingers, you know? It’s some kind of nebulous thing inside you, connecting your thoughts and your actions, that actually does it. I think that’s why I linked it to negative emotions for so long. It was the only way I could conceptualise having control over something so…foggy.”

“How do you think about it now?” asks Enjolras curiously.

Around their feet and in front of them bobs the small orb of light, like a will-o’-the-wisp illuminating the way. They don’t let go of each other's hands. Unspoken in the air around them is the reason for their casual chatter: fear, thick and paralysing, like some kind of terrible poisonous gas.

Grantaire thinks the question over. “I try to visualise it as like…a limb?”

Enjolras grins at him, startled. “Me too! I think of it as stretching out an invisible hand!”

“When I think of pulling the shadows round, I almost…pretend I’m reaching for them?”

 “Right!” enthuses Enjolras. 

There’s a pause, and Grantaire laughs. “How much faster do you think we would have worked this out if we’d compared notes at…literally any point?”

Enjolras huffs out a breath of laughter in return. “I always assumed that you wouldn’t want to talk about your powers. Given…everything.”

“I assumed the same thing about you,” Grantaire says, with a wry smile. “Thought you wouldn’t want to talk about Institute-stuff. Thought maybe you’d think we were past it.”

Enjolras grins. “Hey, do you think maybe we should communicate more?” he asks, pretend-curiously, leaning deep into sarcasm in a way he only does when he’s with Grantaire.

Grantaire chuckles. “By God, I think he’s onto something!”

Their meaningless chatter takes them deep into the cloud of fear. The Institute stands tall and imposing in front of them, illuminated from all corners by bright, harsh floodlights that burst up from the ground. The building itself is six storeys tall, grey and brutalist and blocky. Stretched in front of it is an open compound—a cement exercise yard with tufts of grass escaping around some of the concrete slabs. The whole building is surrounded by a high, buzzing electric fence that stretches over the top of the building like a cage. Attached to the fence, a little way along from where they’re standing, is a sign that reads:

RESTRICTED AREA

MOD PROPERTY

ALL TRESPASSERS WILL BE PROSECUTED

ENFORCED BY MINISTRY OF DEFENCE POLICE

WARNING

POLICE DOGS PATROLLING

At five metre increments, all the way along, are other signs that read:

ELECTRIC FENCE: DO NOT TOUCH

“Do you think maybe they want to be left alone?” mutters Grantaire.

Enjolras bares his teeth in a smile. “How sad for them.”

They’re at the back of the Institute—round the front there’s a big gate that’s guarded 24/7, and an access road. On this side, just as Montparnasse had said there would be, there’s a discrete, door-sized gate, locked from the outside by an industrial-sized padlock.

It makes sense—there’s no way to get to this side of the facility (for normal, non-winged humans) without scaling Beinn Dearg, or walking round from the front of the building, in clear sight of the guarded main gates. And historically the Institute has been much more concerned with stopping people getting out, rather than in.

Grantaire gingerly touches the small gate—not electrified, thankfully—and then sets to work picking the lock.

Beside him, he hears Enjolras take a deep breath.

“Are you alright?” Grantaire asks. He pulls his shadows as tightly around them as he can, like a hug, and keeps clicking away at the lock with his lock picking kit.

“I’m fine,” says Enjolras quietly. “Just. Wondering when I got so bad at being afraid.”

Grantaire glances at him curiously.

“I swear,” Enjolras continues. “When we were younger I was frightened all the time—it was normal. Now, I feel like I’m about to die.” He presses one hand over his chest and grins, ruefully.

Grantaire knows what he means; he can hear the whoosh of his heart beating in his ears. His fingers and mouth are numb with adrenaline. He swears he’s picked locks just like this one a hundred times before, in much faster time, but the seconds and minutes are dragging by. 

“Do you think we get worse at being afraid as we get older?” Grantaire asks idly, trying to stop his brain from hyper-focusing on his numb, clumsy fingers.

“I don’t know,” says Enjolras, frowning. “Maybe we got out of the habit of it?”

Grantaire hums his agreement and keeps methodically pressing the pins into the lock. “Maybe kids have to be braver ‘cause the world’s a much scarier place when you’re under four foot and completely at the mercy of tall people,” he suggests.

Enjolras snorts. “Yeah, that’s probably it.”

There’s one last pin out of place in the lock; Grantaire rakes across them with his pick one last time, and the lock springs open in his hand.

He heaves a sigh of relief, stands up and hurls the padlock out into a nearby gorse bush.

“Knew you could do it,” says Enjolras smugly.

“Thank God for depression hobbies, huh?” Grantaire replies cheerfully.

They stare up at the Institute again, hand in hand. Grantaire thinks he must be made of fear, at this point. Instead of carrying oxygen, surely his blood cells are carrying around little particles of terror, like lead poisoning.

He takes a breath of his own. “You still think I can do it?” he asks Enjolras casually.

“Always,” says Enjolras, and Grantaire doesn’t think he’s ever heard him sound so sure.

Grantaire raises his hand and reaches and reaches. And all the lights in the building go out.

The darkness is momentarily blinding, the world rendered as completely and dizzyingly dark as the insides of their eyelids. Grantaire looks up, and as his eyes adjust, the sky makes itself known as a source of gloomy light. The moon is still hiding behind a sea of clouds, but the clouds themselves are lit up in deep, dark indigo and grey.

Enjolras squeezes his hand.

“Is it weird that I’m really in the mood for pizza all of a sudden?” Grantaire asks conversationally, reaching out and pushing the gate of the compound open.

Enjolras laughs quietly in the dark; Grantaire can barely see his face, but the little will-o’-the-wisp continues to bob happily around his feet.

“I’ll take you out for pizza when we get home,” Enjolras says. “I promise.”

Grantaire’s heart feels like it skips a beat in his chest. “Well in that case,” he says, “what are we waiting for?”

Enjolras laughs, and gives Grantaire’s hand one last squeeze before relinquishing it. “Race you,” he says, and takes off running, speeding out ahead of Grantaire, swallowed almost immediately by the darkness. 

Grantaire races after him, of course; Enjolras has never had to look back.

 &

 

It takes them less than a minute to cross the compound at a sprint. As they approach the building, the doors in front of them open. The two of them grind to a halt on the concrete, metres from the door, cloaked in Grantaire’s shadows.

A guard steps out and surveys the compound. He has a large industrial-sized torch in his hand, and as they watch he tries to flick it on and off to no avail. Grantaire notes that he’s wearing clothing monogrammed with the logo of a private security firm, and has a holstered gun at his hip. After a moment of staring out at the dark, empty grounds, the guard retreats back inside.

Grantaire waits a beat before lunging forwards and catching the edge of the closing door with the tips of his fingers.

Very, very carefully, he opens the door a crack and squints inside. He can hear the guard moving off down the corridor to their right, the sound of another door swinging open and shut. Then, all is quiet and still.

He glances over his shoulder at Enjolras, scarcely able to believe their luck, and they slip inside.

Montparnasse had guessed the flock would be held in the holding cells in the basement of the north-western side of the building, so they head left along the main corridor in search of a flight of stairs.

The decor is skin-crawlingly similar to the previous Institute—white-walled, featureless, with strips of LED lights in the ceiling. The corridor is windowless, and right now the only light source is Enjolras’s little sphere. When they get to the stairwell, a small, high-up window shows a glimpse of the overcast, purple-hued sky outside.

It’s deafeningly quiet, and Grantaire is alert to an excruciating degree, his ears ringing like a thin, wailing alarm. He feels like he’s on the knife edge between a panic attack and murdering the next person he sees. They creep down the stairs, inch by inch, aware that at any moment they might run across a guard, but when they reach the bottom of the stairwell and open the door onto another dark corridor, there’s still no one in sight.

More silence, more dark, more blank-faced doors and turns that lead to nowhere. It starts to feel like a well-known nightmare—endless white walls and a maze that doesn’t relent. But they don’t have time to do the ‘one hand on the wall’ trick, they need to find their family now.

They follow the corridor in front of them. Next to Grantaire, Enjolras’s face is pale and his expression is imbued not with fear, but with a kind of deathly, striking seriousness.

Then a clatter rings out through the silence, the sound of metal-on-metal startling them both to a dead halt. The noise comes from further down the corridor, from behind the door at the end.

Grantaire can feel his heart banging away in his chest like a clenched fist on a door.

They inch towards the door and Grantaire reaches out a hand to push. It’s been left off the latch, and swings inwards noiselessly.

Enjolras’s little light illuminates two rows of holding cells, with a thin corridor running up the middle. The cells are narrow, white-washed, brick-walled rooms with bars and electric locks.

They check them, one after another—empty, empty, empty, empty.

Then Enjolras, in front of Grantaire and to the left, freezes.

There’s a man crumpled on the floor of the last holding cell, illuminated by the faint golden glow of Enjolras’s light. The floor space is so small that he’s propped against the wall, with his legs folded under him. His face is bleeding, his nose broken, and he’s wearing a white coat over a shirt, trousers, and smart shoes.

An invigilator, mouths Enjolras to Grantaire, frowning.

Grantaire nods.

There’s a door at the far end of the room, some twelve feet away, with a black rectangular keycard lock on the wall next to it. There’s also a wooden door that looks like it leads to a store cupboard.

Grantaire studies the guard. He doesn’t appear to have a key card anywhere immediately accessible, but there might be one in his pockets. Grantaire is just sizing up whether or not he could feasibly reach through the bars when there’s a loud, deafening bang.

Enjolras shouts out a wordless warning and slams into Grantaire, dropping them both to the ground.

Grantaire wheezes as Enjolras’s full weight lands on his lungs, and looks wildly around to find the source of the noise.

Bahorel is looking down at them, a sheepish expression on his face and a gun in his hand. Grantaire’s heart leaps with happiness and shock and love, and incandescent brotherly rage.

He launches himself to a standing position, entire body vibrating with adrenaline, and Enjolras slumps to the floor at his feet—unharmed, but apparently taking a moment to gather himself in the face of their near-assassination.

“Did you just try to fucking shoot me?” Grantaire scream-whispers.

Bahorel beams at them. “In my defence,” he whispers, “I don’t know how to use a gun!”

“In your defense?” Enjolras groans incredulously, levering himself to his feet. “How does that work in your defense?”

Behind Bahorel, their family are pouring out from behind the door to the store room, their faces glowing with relief and happiness. 

Bahorel sweeps Grantaire into a back-breaking hug that has his feet leaving the floor.

Grantaire pats Bahorel on the side, because with his arms trapped that’s the only part of him he can reach. “Right, Enjolras, come on. We’re leaving. This fucking family. You shot at me?”

Enjolras doesn’t appear to hear him. Cosette has barrelled past them and leapt into his arms.

Courfeyrac, somehow managing to screech sotto voce, wraps his arms around Grantaire and Enjolras’s necks, and then Gavroche is there, lodging his bony elbow into Grantaire’s spleen, and Musichetta’s hair is in his mouth.

“You’re late,” says Eponine, from somewhere under Grantaire’s left arm.

“Go fuck yourself,” says Grantaire immediately, exhausted and near-tears and dizzy with relief and love.

“Is everyone alright?” asks Enjolras, sounding muffled. “Jehan, are you okay?” 

“Everyone’s fine,” says Combeferre. 

“Not a scratch on me!” says Jehan cheerfully. 

Somewhere in the depths of the building there’s the sound of a door slamming.

Combeferre says, “I love you all very very much but do you think maybe—”

They break apart.

“We have to get moving,” says Enjolras. “We have things to do before we get out of here.”

“What shit do you have to do?” Bahorel asks incredulously. “You gotta pick up some milk and bread? Is this a rescue mission or not? I mean, we actually already did the hard part. We rescued ourselves—”

“—You nearly shot me,” Grantaire mutters.

“Now surely we just gotta exit stage fucking left?” Bahorel continues blithely.

“Exit stage left,” mutters Eponine mockingly. 

“Quite the thespian, our Bahorel” muses Feuilly.

“Focus!” hisses Musichetta.

Everybody goes silent

In the competition for who has the most raw leadership energy, even Enjolras loses out to a determined Musichetta.

“What’s the plan?” she whispers, looking between Grantaire and Enjolras.

“We’re going public,” says Grantaire, keeping his voice low. “Marius is at his grandfather’s lodge, ready to upload all the data we have on the Institute to a server, which he’ll send to his press contacts. We’ve anonymised all the data about us and any other victims, but otherwise…the world will wake up tomorrow and know that there are winged people in the world. Does anyone need to veto? Speak now or forever hold your peace.”

“Chetta and Ponine thought that would be your plan,” says Combeferre, nodding. “Everyone is fine with it.”

“I’ll go with you to get some more data,” says Eponine. “We want some on this place, right? Given that it’s the only physical Institute still standing. Is Marius sending it out tonight?”

“Um. Yes?” Grantaire says, a little put out that the plan they’d taken three days to formulate is apparently the only logical course of action in Eponine’s eyes. “It took us a while to think of that plan, you know.” 

Eponine gives him a look that indicates, vividly, how little she’s surprised by that.

“Rude,” notes Grantaire.

“We also need to get the other children out,” says Enjolras, and Grantaire sees his gaze stray instinctively to Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Cosette, his eternal lieutenants.

“We’ll come with you,” says Cosette immediately, and Courfeyrac and Combeferre nod.

“What’s our exit strategy?” asks Joly, from his place on Bossuet’s back. “The roof?”

“There’s overhead fencing,” says Jehan, shaking his head. “I could feel it above us when we came in.”

“It’s out the way me and Grantaire came in,” says Enjolras. “Across the compound at the back of the building and through the gate.”

Musichetta frowns. “That’s a bottleneck. We better hope we don’t run into the guards.”

Grantaire agrees with her, but he can’t see any other way. “I know,” he says. “It’s risky. But as soon as we’re out we can get in the air and get away. Did you…see? Anything?”

Musichetta shakes her head, still frowning. “No. I just…think we could easily end up getting trapped.”

“What if we try to stop the bottleneck?” Feuilly asks. He has a swollen, cut lip and bruising over his cheekbone. 

Musichetta looks quizzically at him.

“I mean, what if we hold the door until the others can get back to us?” says Feuilly. He turns to Enjolras. “Is there more than one way out to the compound from this building?”

“No,” says Enjolras, looking at Grantaire who nods in agreement. “The only way out of here and directly into the compound is the back door—there’s not even any windows on the ground floor. The only other way in is the service gate at the back left corner of the fencing, where we came in. Otherwise the compound is just a big...box, essentially.”

“People could come out the front door, walk around the circumference of the fencing and come in through the back gate, I suppose,” Grantaire says. “But it’d take longer, and we’d see them coming.”

“So we hold the door,” says Bahorel, shrugging. “Easy peasy.” 

“Knock on wood,” say Joly and Bossuet simultaneously, reaching in unison to tap each other on the head. 


“Who’s best to take this?” asks Jehan, holding up a key card on a lanyard between his fingers.

Grantaire frowns at it, confused.

“Care of the bastard we locked in his own cage!” says Feuilly brightly.

“Ah,” says Grantaire. “I think Enjolras should take it. The kids will probably have the most locked doors between them and us. And they’re the priority.”

Enjolras nods and takes the key card, then turns to Grantaire. “We should get going. We’ll meet you at the back door, then?”

“Right,” says Grantaire, without moving.

He doesn’t want Enjolras to disappear out of his sight and his sphere of protective darkness. Enjolras—hurt, in danger, out of Grantaire’s reach—it’s the shape of every one of Grantaire’s nightmares.

Enjolras’s gaze is fierce and steady. He reaches his hand out to Grantaire, and Grantaire catches Enjolras’s fingers between his own—not holding hands, just contact.

“Be safe,” says Enjolras. It’s not a question; it’s a command.

“You too,” croaks Grantaire, around something that’s sharp like an arrow in his throat.

Enjolras nods. Then he turns and doesn’t look back, heading for the door that leads deeper into the building, swiping the keycard and pushing through it, Courfeyrac, Combeferre, and Cosette behind him.

“That was like the end of Titanic,” observes Bahorel. Feuilly elbows him in the ribs, grinning.

Grantaire rolls his eyes and turns to Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet, who are by far the worse for wear of the group. Musichetta is cradling her wrist, Joly has a black eye, and Bossuet, who’s carrying Joly on his back, appears to be limping slightly. They’re dressed, like the rest of the flock, in standard issue Institute clothing—starched white trousers and shirts and plain white plimsolls. It bleaches his family of their usual vibrancy and makes Grantaire’s stomach turn over. 

But the unholy trinity don’t seem all that bothered by their various injuries, or by the involuntary drop in their wardrobe standards—their collective gaze is knowing, and warm.

“You made up with Enjolras!” cheers Bossuet quietly. 

Next to him, Musichetta snorts. “I told you, they more than made up.”

Grantaire blanches at the implications of that statement—did this information come to Musichetta in a vision or is it one of those ‘just knows’ kinda situations? He hopes to God it’s the latter. 

“Oh I hate that,” he says to Musichetta. “Hate it.” 

Musichetta grins at him, unrepentant. 

“I’m sorry I wasn’t there. At the apartment,” he says, partially to move the conversation on from his love life, but mostly because his regret is a weight that’s been sitting heavily on his chest for the past three days now, and he has to acknowledge it. 

“Don’t be ridiculous,” says Musichetta, rolling her eyes. “This was always how it was going to happen, one way or another.”

“Besides,” says Joly brightly. “We did okay for ourselves! We got them to crash the kidnap van. Twice!”

Grantaire stares. “Twice?”

Musichetta smirks. “Turns out that there’s quite a lot of bad luck you can inflict on a person if they happen to be behind the wheel of a moving vehicle.”

Bossuet beams proudly.

“The van rolled,” says Joly, with a kind of breathless enthusiasm. “It was amazing.”

“So your arm—” Grantaire says to Musichetta.

“All injuries are vehicular in nature,” says Musichetta, eyes twinkling. “But you should see the other guy.”

“You should see Jehan’s other guy,” mutters Feuilly.

“Uh, I did,” says Grantaire. “Or the shape of him, anyway. That rug is beyond unsalvageable, Jehan.”

“He got what was coming to him,” says Jehan simply, with a dreamy shrug.

“That’s fucking chilling!” says Bahorel cheerfully.

“Come on,” says Eponine. “We need to go.” 

&

 

They go back the way Grantaire and Enjolras came in, along a corridors and up the flight of stairs. Grantaire can’t help but feel buoyed by elation that the first part of their plan has gone so smoothly. They’d found the rest of the flock much faster than they’d expected, without a single encounter with any of the Institute’s guards. Bahorel, Feuilly, Bossuet, and Joly are having a rowdy, whispered conversation about whether being statistically significantly unlucky counts as a motor vehicle offence in and of itself, and Grantaire can’t help but feel hopeful that they’ll get out of here without anything truly awful happening.

Grantaire and Eponine split off from the others on the ground floor and keep heading upwards to the fourth, where Montparnasse had said the offices would be. Grantaire keeps his shadows around the two of them, and when a few harried-looking invigilators hurry past, they don’t see Grantaire and Eponine at all, even though Grantaire is certain his heart is beating loud enough to be heard at fifty paces.

It’s much darker without Enjolras and his little light, but this corridor has windows and some of the ambient light outside manages to hold back the swallowing pitch of darkness that had found them in the basement levels.

They find a large open-plan office at the end of the corridor, and Eponine moves off quickly between the desks to find a laptop. When she opens it, the rectangle of light blinds them, and illuminates the entire room. She boots into the laptop’s BIOS, typing a series of text commands and generating pages of scrolling prompts. Grantaire takes a moment to contemplate how ridiculously, insanely lucky they are that Eponine spent her teenage years holed up with Marius in her bedroom rewiring computers for fun.

Grantaire, trying to be useful, finds his torch in the bottom of his rucksack, and uses it to investigate the rest of the office. His torch still works, because he lets it, but if anyone comes across them they’ll be able to see it too—free as it is from Grantaire’s illusory darkness. 

He finds a tower of filing cabinets, and sets the torch down so that he can take his lock picks back out and get to work on the lock. 

“How did you get the lights off?” Eponine asks absently, her fingers flying across the keyboard, the laptop emitting occasional cheerful beeps. “Was that you or Enjolras?”

“Me,” says Grantaire. “We didn’t fry all the fuses or anything. I’m just suppressing the light.”

“Can you keep that up indefinitely?” Eponine asks. Her voice is casual, but her dark eyes flick up towards him seriously.

“I don’t know,” says Grantaire honestly, as the filing cabinet clicks open. “I’ve never done anything like this for so long before.” 

He thinks about his and Enjolras’s analogy—that using their powers feels like stretching out a limb. Grantaire wonders if the analogy will prove true over the next few hours—after all, reaching out a hand to turn off a light is easy; holding your arms outstretched for more than fifteen minutes is an agonising stress position on par with torture. For now, his darkness is coming easily to him, although it’s a constant presence in the back of his mind.

He rifles through the cabinet and finds staff contact information, a procedural manual, and what looks like travel expenses documentation. He stuffs as much as possible into his rucksack.

“How long’s it going to take?” he asks, heading back to stand next to Eponine.

“Longer if you keep annoying me,” she mutters through her teeth. “I’m sending the most damning stuff over just now—mostly just text files. But I’m also transferring videos and photos onto this—” she affectionately pats a flash drive (which, Grantaire has no idea where that came from) like it’s a puppy. “Might as well get the whole shebang. It’d be better if we could take the whole server but—” she shrugs. “C’est la vie.”

“You’re amazing and my favourite person ever,” says Grantaire absently, peering out the window. The concrete compound is still empty. No guards have gathered outside to prevent their escape.

“Obviously,” Eponine mutters, mostly on reflex.

It’s still oppressively quiet in the Institute; Grantaire’s ears are buzzing with it. It’s unsettling—there’s supposed to be an entire unit of armed guards stationed here. Where are they?

Then, with the suddenness of a door slamming, as if the world has been waiting for him to mentally ask this very question, the night erupts with the sound of gunshots, and screams.

&

 

The first time Enjolras had met Dr Simplice she’d eyed him over her wire-frame glasses and said, “You are a very angry young man.”

Enjolras has never devoted much time to self reflection. He’s never thought of himself in terms of traits. When Dr Simplice had asked him how he’d describe himself, he’d gotten as far as, “I’m quite serious? I suppose?” Before giving her a rundown of his feelings re: the Labour party’s greatest mistakes over the past twenty years. Dr Simplice had raised one long, thin eyebrow and said—because Dr Simplice is, at heart, a very mean old woman—“Disliking neoliberalism is not a personality trait, Enjolras.” And then she’d asked him if anyone in his life had ever commented on his attitude towards conflict.

Unfortunately for Enjolras, several vivid familial assessments of ‘his attitude towards conflict’ had leapt immediately to mind. From Combeferre’s diplomatic reference to his ‘very passionate outlook on life,’ to Javert ruffling his hair and telling him with amusement that he’s ‘consistently and entertainingly belligerent,’ to Cosette gently informing him that he could ‘be a little spiky’. And, of course, there was Grantaire’s horribly vivid coup de gras lamentation of Enjolras’s ‘willingness to escalate to nuclear levels of hostility with minimal prompting, with the enthusiasm and violence of a bag of feral geese that have just escaped from a clothes dryer cycle.’ That condemnation, word for word, has been rattling around Enjolras’s head for at least eight years now—it makes him laugh every time.

But the fact remains that he’d never thought of himself as angry. Sure, things angered him sometimes but he’d never been an angry person. He wasn’t violent. With the exception of his arguments with Grantaire, he hardly ever shouted. He never got enraged by wrong coffee orders, long queues didn’t bother him, and thanks to the baseline insanity of his family members, he’s generally pretty tolerant of the wilder extremes of human weirdness. If anything, he thinks strangers tend to characterise him as being a bit cold, a bit standoffish. But not hot-headed.

He’d spoken about it to Jehan, because back when Grantaire had first left and Enjolras had woken crying in the middle of every night, Jehan had been the one who’d heard him and Jehan had been the one who’d padded into Enjolras’s room and held Enjolras’s hand while he fell back to sleep.

One such night, Enjolras had rolled onto his side and examined Jehan’s pale, freckled face and asked, “Do you think I’m an angry person?”

Jehan had frowned in confusion and asked, “Well, isn’t it your anger that you use to control your powers?”

Enjolras, after wrestling down his initial speechlessness at that revelation, had said, “I don’t control them. They just happen.” Then, after a pause, he’d said with more sulkiness that he’d intended: “I don’t want to be an angry person.”

Jehan had hummed thoughtfully. “Anger isn’t inherently bad, you know. Especially your anger—it’s never come out of entitlement or meanness or hatred.”

“Well, what does it come from?”

Jehan had looked at him very seriously before saying, “I think that you think that the world should be a certain way—good and fair and just—and when it isn’t, you push back. You say, ‘well it could be good, it could be fair. I could make it that way.’ You believe in your own power to do that, to shape the future. You know, most people don’t have that belief—it’s incredible, really, that you do. They say helplessness is a learned trait, but you seem to be immune to learning it.”

“You make it sound like a good thing,” Enjolras had said, not quite convinced. “Anger, I mean.”

Jehan had sighed. “Honestly, Enjolras, I think it’s just your way of loving.”

“It’s what?” Enjolras had asked, because good God, no wonder Grantaire had left him, if that’s what Enjolras has been putting out into the world. Anger is just my way of showing that I love you: what an asshole.

Jehan had smiled sympathetically. “You love the world, and you’re angry that it isn’t what you think it should be. You’re angry at Grantaire, because you love him, and he doesn’t treat himself well, and you know that he deserves better. You’re angry at yourself, because you think you’ve hurt him. I don’t think those feelings are wrong. It’s just that you don’t often take the time to think about what else those things make you feel.”

So Enjolras has tried, in recent years, to become less angry. He’s tried to get more in touch with how he’s feeling and reach less impulsively for anger in response to things that make him sad or uncomfortable. (Dr Simplice’s words, not his.) He does yoga with Jehan, Eponine and Cosette on Saturday mornings. He boxes with Bahorel and Feuilly on Tuesday nights. He uses his mindfulness app. He practices being aware of his own feelings, and his own fury. It had been helpful when he’d been working through his anxiety, to understand it as a kind of restless agitation, a reflexive response to things not being as he thought they should be. It had been very helpful, when he’d been working on understanding and gaining control of his powers, to know that they were fuelled by his baseline wrath. He hadn’t gotten much closer to understanding the origins of his strange extremes of feeling, but he’d at least gotten to know them better; he’d at least managed to wrestle them under some kind of control.


 


Now, standing in the absolute darkness of the basement corridor, Enjolras understands for the first time how such a burning, terrible fire came to live within him. Simply put: it is easier to tolerate than fear.

Whitewashed blocks press in around them on all sides. The light of his glowing orb is bright enough for the others to see by, but he’s aware, always, that it’s an illusion. Half of his mind can see the linoleum tile in front of him, but the other half is dreadfully conscious of the fact that they’re running through a tunnel blacker than a closed tomb, pretending to see by the light of a thing that isn’t real, that looks like it’s escaped from one of Grantaire’s stories.

It’s not fair that Enjolras misses Grantaire like a limb. He’d gone two years without seeing his face and hearing his laugh, and he’d almost gotten used to the feeling of missing. Now he’s held Grantaire’s hand for three days and the missing is back, vivid like an open wound. It had felt, as they curled around each other in Marius’s grandfather’s house, like they finally understood each other fully, free from expectations and assumptions. Like they’d found a way to be themselves, and love one another, and not hurt themselves in doing so. But now they stand to lose everything. It’s unfairness of a pitch that Enjolras can’t even begin to comprehend.

He’s glad he has Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Cosette with him, at least. Apart from Grantaire, they’re his best friends in the world, and an ever-present source of conviction and logic and kindness. He feels more certain with them at his side—more capable of tackling the Institute and the vast, dizzying array of horrible memories it throws up around him. They don’t need to speak, or reassure him with words. He knows they have his back, no matter what.

They reach the end of one corridor and then the next, until they come to another stairwell. Another key-card swipe has them heading up the stairs towards the second floor.

“I wonder why we aren’t seeing any people,” says Combeferre quietly. “The old Institute was never this deserted. Where is everyone? Where are the guards?”

“Surely they must know we’ve escaped and that you guys are here,” mutters Courfeyrac. “They’ll have CCTV, won’t they?”

“Enjolras’s light doesn’t show up on camera, remember?” Cosette whispers. “It’s an illusion. All they’ll be able to see is darkness.”

“Still,” says Courfeyrac. “They must know something is wrong! It’s not exactly a normal power-cut.”

Enjolras shakes his head, at a loss. He thinks the stillness is menacing too. It reminds him, horribly, of his and Grantaire’s first escape attempt. Empty corridors right up until the last second.

Still, there’s nowhere to go but onwards. They haven’t got a choice, they have to get the children out—Enjolras won’t leave without them.

The next corridor is horribly, wordlessly familiar, and slows them to a crawl. Behind him and to the right, Enjolras hears Cosette take a shaky breath. The four of them come to a simultaneous stop in front of the same door.

They don’t need Montparnasse’s directions. They spent their childhood behind a door just like this one.

Enjolras swipes the keycard and pushes the door, which remains resolutely in place. He tries again, and again the door doesn’t open.

He glances at the others.

Combeferre’s brow is creased in a frown. “Maybe only management has access?” he suggests quietly.

Enjolras lets out a rough sigh of exasperation. Combeferre is right—when they’d been in the Institute, the people directly in charge of them had been a small, select group. They’d never seen lab techs or guards in their living quarters. But that leaves the question: what do they do now? Search the Institute for invigilators until they find one of a sufficiently high level? Wait here and hope that someone wanders along?

“Could you use your powers?” asks Cosette.

Enjolras frowns. “And what? Blow the door up?”

Cosette raises an eyebrow, and grins. “It’s what Bahorel and Feuilly would do.”

Enjolras looks at Combeferre and Courfeyrac. Combeferre looks uncertain, but Courfeyrac shrugs and says, “It’s worth a shot?”

“Do you think you can control it?” asks Combeferre, frowning.

Enjolras sighs. “I don’t know, but I don’t know if we have any other options.”

He curls his fingers, and the little orb of light rises up until it’s rotating slowly in the air in front of him. It looks, more than anything, like a tiny yellow sun—too bright to regard directly.

Enjolras takes a deep, steadying breath, and tries to concentrate—tries to find the place in his head where stillness lives. The light focuses down to the size of a pebble, then even smaller, until it’s nothing more than a firefly spot wavering in a pitch-black corridor, leaving a tangled after-image line in the darkness behind it. Enjolras has to look away to prevent the intense brightness from dazzling him.

Courfeyrac bangs on the door loudly and shouts, making them all jump. “If there’s anyone in there, stand back! We’re going to blow the door up! Probably!”

Enjolras slips the light into the space where the door meets the frame. The others move down the corridor and around a corner, putting a wall between themselves and the door, and Enjolras follows them. The shape of the doorframe glows with the force of Enjolras’s light, blurring and oscillating at the edges with its own brilliance, illuminating the entire corridor. 

Enjolras takes one deep breath, in and out.

And the door explodes.

He catches the blast before it can expand outwards towards them or the room on the other side, and it looks bizarre, like an explosion frozen in time, soundless and motionless, suspended in mid-air. Then he compresses all the light back into a small, harmless sphere, and pulls it away. The door continues to stand for one long moment, dull and dark and perfectly balanced in it’s frame, before tipping forwards and slamming into the ground with a deafening bang.

They all freeze, immobile, for a handful of heartbeats. But there’s no thunder of footsteps in the distance, no shouting or alarms; Enjolras lets out a breath he hadn’t known he’d been holding.

They venture back around the corner, the little orb of light bobbing once more around Enjolras’s feet. Then, carefully, making sure not to touch the melted metal of the doorframe, Enjolras steps through the doorway and straight into his childhood. 

In Enjolras’s nightmares an identical room to this one stands big and empty—his entire universe closed in by four white walls. But the very first thing he notices about this space is how pitifully small it is. There are thirteen people in the flock—thirteen people with big wingspans and bigger personalities and often monumentally poor decision making skills. Valjean’s living room struggles to comfortably contain more than half of them at any one time, and this room is less than half the size of Valjean’s. How had they fitted? How had they not felt claustrophobic to the point of asphyxiation? Enjolras appreciates anew Jehan’s desire to have his own flat, and to be the only one in possession of a key. 

Nevertheless, this room is a carbon copy of the one that had once existed in America, and the more Enjolras looks, the faster the memories come. Next to the door is a study area, with a bookshelf and a white plastic desk. Grantaire had taught Enjolras to read at a desk just like it—a is for apple, b is for ball, c is for cat, over and over again, with unflagging good cheer, until Enjolras had got it right. Across the room, the northern wall is lined with windows that are wide and tall and have wire mesh embedded in them—in the lethargic boredom of perpetual imprisonment, Enjolras had spent endless hours counting identical little mesh squares, fingertips smudging on the cold glass. Next to the window is a small play area, scattered with old and mostly-abandoned toys. Enjolras had sat there and played with little paper people, acting out their tiny toy dramas on a windowsill stage. Grantaire had cut out, painstakingly, little paper wings for the paper villagers, and attached them with rubber bands. He’d made them do funny voices.

Outside of Enjolras’s head and the tidal wave of his memories, the room is quiet and still. Shadows of clouds from outside move darkly over the linoleum floor. He glances back at the others—their expressions are grave and distant, marked by the echoes of their own memories. 

As with the previous Institute, there’s a dividing wall down the middle of the living quarters and on the other side, through a wide opening in the wall, is the dormitory. The only doors that the flock had encountered as children had been ones that were locked against them from the outside—their own living quarters had been devoid of anything resembling privacy.

Enjolras forces his feet onwards and round the gap in the wall, and stares into the dark dormitory beyond.

The big windows let in the nebulous light of the night sky, moonlight reflected among cloudlight and starlight. It’s enough illumination to make out a row of empty beds, with not a living soul in sight.

Enjolras and Grantaire’s cots had been at the end of the row, closest to the windows. Grantaire used to curl up next to him, breath hot and tickly on his neck, and tell him all about the stars and the planets and the universe.

A few of the beds are unmade, and bear the disordered bedsheets and rumpled pillows of sleep.

Enjolras glances at the others and they nod in agreement. The silence of the dorm isn’t natural quietude—it’s a collection of held breaths. The children are still in the room, they’re just hiding from the unknown variable, them.

Enjolras never would have imagined that his nightmare-drenched perfect recall of the room he spent his childhood imprisoned in would ever serve any kind of practical use. But, as it is, he knows every single hiding space in the seemingly spartan dormitory. The flock had kept their Institute-issued clothes in plastic trays under their beds—in the absence of any other possessions, they hadn’t really needed any further storage space. But they’d found a way to wedge themselves under their beds that had meant that they were shielded from view by the trays. There had also been a small door in the corner of the dorm, less than a metre high, that when levered open had gained them access to a small insulation space—a strip of dusty floor about four inches wide. It had been nothing more than a shallow cupboard, really, but as young children Enjolras and Grantaire had spent many an hour wedged in there together. It wasn’t so much that they’d thought that they were hidden, or that the invigilators wouldn’t be able to find them if they wanted to. It was more that sometimes, if you didn’t put a door between yourself and the thing that terrified you, you’d go mad.

In the dim light of the room, in the furthermost corner of the dorm, Enjolras can just see the outline of another little door.

What would the flock have done, if they’d been in this position? If the door had exploded and strangers— or worse, people they’d been taught to hate—had walked in? They’d have put Gavroche in the cupboard, and the rest of them would have slid under their beds and watched, sick with fear. Enjolras knows that if he crosses the room with purpose and opens the little door in the corner, one of the other children in the room will take his face off with their teeth—it’s what Eponine would have done, after all.

“Hello,” calls Enjolras to the room at large, feeling awkward. “We’re here to get you out. We grew up in an Institute, just like this one. We want to help.”

Silence follows.

As a child Enjolras would have jumped at the remotest chance of escape, but he can imagine that Grantaire—naturally deeply suspicious by nature—would have had his nails digging into Enjolras’s arm and his hand wrapped across his mouth by this point.

These past few years Enjolras has been practicing what Dr Simplice condescendingly calls seeing things from other people’s points of view. He knows that he has a tendency to view his own outlook on life as objective and logical, rather than inherently biased by feelings and perceptions, which is why he’s historically had difficulty with what Dr Simplice condescendingly calls compromise—but he has been practicing. He knows that the razers of their childhood had never been as preoccupied with freedom as the flock had been—possibly because they were distracted by having to think about the scarcity of food, and the ever-present threat of each other. These children have every reason to distrust him, and he doesn’t know how to convince them otherwise.

He looks at the others with more than a little desperation—they’re on a serious time limit here, and the room feels as dry and dangerous as an unlit powder keg. They can’t afford to frighten these children into violence—they might be young, but Enjolras has seen razer teeth puncture flesh and crack bone. If this escalates into a fight, it’ll be difficult to get everybody out safely.

Courfeyrac strolls past him, patting Enjolras gently on the shoulder as he goes. With every line of his body exuding calm, he wanders over to the wall on the far side of the room, leans against it, and slides down so he’s half-crouched, half-seated on the floor. Facing the room, he smiles absently, reaches out his hand, and knocks politely on the little door—knock knock.

The room holds its breath.

“Unfortunately,” begins Courfeyrac, with a note of apology, “we know where all the hiding places are. We did a fair bit of it ourselves, back in the day.”

He crosses his legs, and continues conversationally, “We’re not going to hurt you. We want to help you get out of here, if that’s what you want. But we’re not going to force you to do anything you don’t want to do. You can stay here if that’s what you’d prefer.”

Enjolras tries to suppress his exasperation. True, he’s not going to try and remove any children by force—especially not clawed, fanged children—but given that he’s already decided he’s not leaving without them, he’d prefer it if Courfeyrac applied his natural powers of persuasion towards getting them all the fuck out of here. But he trusts Courfeyrac, and he remembers how doggedly Valjean had offered them their own choices in the first few years that they’d stayed with him.

The door to the crawl space opens so slowly that Enjolras misses it at first. The walls are bathed in shadow but as the gap between the door and the wall widens, he sees a pair of eyes glow out from the strip of darkness—bright reflective yellow like a startled fox in a dark London alleyway.

“Hey there,” says Courfeyrac, angling himself a little towards the door, carefully not turning his back on the rest of the room. “My name’s Courf! Nice to meet you!”

Enjolras feels it then, like warmth from an invisible flame: Courfeyrac’s power. He’s seen it in action a thousand times before, at school and uni and at parties and bars—a grounding, radiant kindness; a playfulness that disarms and welcomes. It’s nothing like Enjolras’s blinding pay attention to me charisma, which turns heads in the street and just as frequently attracts accusations of abrasiveness and arrogance. Courfeyrac’s aura is more like a comfortingly scrawled note to the recipient’s subconscious: this person is your friend. The sensation of it washes over the room.

Enjolras and Combeferre meet eyes, and Combeferre smiles, very slightly.

The child in the cupboard shuffles a little further into the light, and Enjolras makes out a little girl of about nine. She’s small for her age, and she looks tired and pale and underfed. Her eyes are big and dark.

“What’s that,” she whispers. A small hand emerges from the shadows, pointing at Enjolras’s little orb of light.

“What, this?” Courfeyrac asks, holding out his hands towards it.

The little light bobs happily towards him and settles just over his palms with almost no conscious effort on Enjolras’s part.

Courfeyrac examines it for a moment. Then, with the air of one confiding a secret, he whispers to the girl, “I think it’s a star!”

The girl shuffles a little further out of the cupboard. Her stubborn frown is thrown into sharp relief by the light of the orb. “That’s not a star,” she says decisively. “Stars are big. The sun is a star.” The girl’s sharp teeth are too large behind her lips—they give her a slight lisp.

“No,” says Courfeyrac. “Really? Are you sure? Well, in that case I’ve absolutely no idea what this is. What do you think?”

The girl moves out of the cupboard entirely, entranced by the little light. “Is it hot?” she asks, reaching out a hand towards it.

“Nope,” says Courfeyrac, prodding the light with one finger. “It’s actually kinda cold, isn’t that weird?”

“Can I feel it?” she whispers, like a secret.

“Of course you can,” says Courfeyrac. “But maybe we should check with your friends first, hmm? See if they’re okay with it.” Courfeyrac’s eyes flick up towards the door, and Enjolras follows his gaze.

Silently, with a kind of malevolent noiselessness, three children have appeared and arranged themselves between Enjolras, Combeferre, Cosette and Courfeyrac, and the door. Their eyes glow in the darkness like tiny moons.

There’s an older girl—about thirteen, with hard, calculating eyes, a widow’s peak and a pointed chin. A boy of a similar age, who’s grown too fast for his Institute-issued pyjamas, stretched and gaunt and half-wild looking. And a younger girl, maybe ten or so, with red hair, light brown skin, and lots of freckles—she looks like she’s about to burst into tears.

If Enjolras had to make a risk assessment, he’d put money on the oldest girl being the first to go for his throat. She’s got an Eponine-like hardness to her, and her gaze darts from Enjolras, to the youngest girl, to Courfeyrac, then back again with laser focus. She takes a step towards him, and every single filament of Enjolras’s genetic makeup demands that he recognise her as a threat. He rejects the impulse out of hand—she’s a child, and he’s here to help her.

“I’m Enjolras,” he says. “This is Courfeyrac, Combeferre and Cosette. We’re getting out of here, and we want to help you get out as well. We know Montparnasse—he told us about you.”

“Montparnasse?” blurts out the freckled girl.

“He’s in France right now, with Azelma,” Enjolras says. “But he told us where to find you, so we could help you escape.”

“What do you mean, France?” snaps the eldest girl, scowling. “Why are they in France?”

“They’re hiding out in a safe place from the Institute. But he said there were six of you?”

The girl doesn’t look convinced—she narrows her eyes at him. “Are we supposed to believe you’re doing this to be nice?” she asks disdainfully. “What’s the catch?”

Enjolras blinks at her, startled. “What?”

“You heard me,” she snarls. “Nobody just helps. Why are you doing this?”

“Well, you’re…you’re children,” says Enjolras, frowning in confusion. “I mean, even if you were adults, obviously the Institute would still be evil and we would still try to help. But you’re kids! Of course we’re going to help you, we’re not going to leave you here!”

Something about Enjolras’s bewilderment seems to pacify her—or at least confuse her out of antagonism. She frowns, and jerks her head at the youngest girl, who crosses the floor quickly to stand beside her. Enjolras’s little light bobs along beside her.

“Where are the other two children?” asks Combeferre gently, as Courfeyrac moves to stand beside Enjolras.

“The twins,” says the redheaded girl, looking nervously at the others.

“Where are they?” Courfeyrac asks.

The eldest girl and boy look at each other, and something wordless passes between them.

“They’re doing some kind of sleep study on them,” the girl says eventually, with a lingering touch of coolness. “They’re in the labs overnight.”

“We’ll get them out,” says Cosette, seriously. “We promise. We won’t leave without them, either.”

The children are silent, wary and distant as cats.

“Will you come with us?” Enjolras asks.

“Fine,” says the eldest girl, expression stony. Her and the boy glance at each other again, and Enjolras—who has more than his share of experience in unspoken communication with loved ones—reads the message clearly on her face. But we still don’t trust them. 

&

 

The eldest girl is called Elle, she tells them. The boy is Barre, the redhead is Cara, and the youngest girl, who keeps her hands cupped around the little floating light, is Demi.

“Are we escaping?” Demi whispers, as they move quickly down the corridor. Elle is dragging her by the arm because Demi is preoccupied by the little orb, stroking her fingers over it gently like a small, furry pet. Her face is bright with its luminescence.

“Yes,” whispers Cara in reply.

“What floor are the labs on?” Combeferre asks.

“This one,” says Barre. “But there’s no way to get between the east wing and the west wing without going down to the ground floor first.”

“It was the same at the old Institute,” says Cosette, frowning in recollection. “They limited our movements as much as possible, remember? There was no easy way to get anywhere.”

Enjolras remembers. He also remembers how Grantaire’s eyes had taken the building apart like a Rubik’s cube, turning it and twisting it in his mind’s eye until the labyrinth was solved. Think in three dimensions, sunshine. Everyone always forgets to think in three dimensions.

Enjolras stops walking. “It’s a waste of time for us to go down and then all the way back up. There’s too many locked doors, too many opportunities for discovery. We want to get to the others as quickly as possible and we don’t want to run across any guards between then and now.”

“So what do you want to do?” asks Cosette, frowning. “I think we might get their attention if you blow a hole in the wall. Also, it might be load bearing.”

Enjolras raises his eyes heavenwards. Why is ‘blow it up’ always the first line solution in his family? “Or I could climb?” he suggests. “Between the windows?”

There’s a pause, and then Courfeyrac laughs quietly, “That’s a positively Grantairean idea, Enjolras. He’d be proud.”

Enjolras rolls his eyes, but allows Courfeyrac a small, wry grin. 

“One of us will come with you,” says Elle determinedly.

“That’s probably not a good idea,” says Enjolras with a frown. “If I slip, I can always fly. It’s a long way to the ground for you guys, and I probably wouldn’t be able to hold you up if you fell.”

Elle scowls. “We’re not that heavy.”

“You’re heavier than me,” says Enjolras seriously. “We have hollow bones, it’s how we fly.”

“It’ll be much faster this way,” Combeferre reasons with her. “Enjolras can get the twins, and meet us down on the ground floor.”

Elle and Barre share another wordless glance. 

“Fine,” says Elle, not sounding very impressed. “But if you don’t meet us down there, we’re coming back up.” She makes it sound like a threat.

The window that the kids select is at the end of a long corridor, and faces back out over the southern side of the building. Enjolras can see the flat grey concrete of the compound, and then past the electric fence the expansive heath and rocky heights of Beinn Dearg. 

“I think the lab should just be the next window along from this one,” says Cara uncertainly, biting her lip. 

The window is, unsurprisingly, locked, but unlike the windows in the children’s living quarters, it does have the capacity to open. The locking mechanism breaks with the smallest, most delicate flash of Enjolras’s little light.

“You still haven’t explained what that thing is,” mutters Elle, as the light does one last dance around Demi’s head and disappears, leaving the corridor in darkness.

Enjolras is too busy clambering out of the window to answer her. This is the kind of thing Grantaire would be able to do while looking effortlessly cool. Enjolras, on the other hand, is fairly certain he looks like a goat balancing on its hind legs as he crouches on the windowsill, one leg in, one leg out.

“Enjolras has magic powers,” says Courfeyrac absently, eyeing Enjolras’s footing with an expression of mild amusement and moderate concern.

“Are you going to be alright?” Cosette asks him, looking worried.

“I’ll be fine,” Enjolras says, infusing his words with as much confidence as possible, to compensate for his goat-like demeanour. “See you in a bit.”

Combeferre, Cosette and Courfeyrac don’t appear to be much appeased by this. The kids don’t look convinced either, but they look markedly less bothered by the idea of his falling to a horrible early demise.

“What are their names?” Enjolras asks suddenly. “The twins, I mean.”

“Pan and Fin,” says Cara quietly.

Enjolras nods, then eases himself fully out of the building.

He’s taller than the window, so loses sight of the others immediately. He gets a grip on a thin ridge of concrete running parallel above the window, then slides first one foot and then the other along the narrow ledge just beneath the windowsill. If he falls, it’ll take some space to get himself airborne again. He’s dressed all in black, with his wings tucked into his sweater and a hood pulled over his bright hair. But if he loses his grip, and his wings spring free of his hoodie, he’ll be a bright, flashing beacon to anyone on this side of the building. He needs to keep a low profile, at least until he gets back to the others—he doesn’t want to be the reason they get discovered.

He can see the next window along, some fifteen feet away, the glass like a sheet of still vertical water in the sparse moonlight. He inches towards it, agonisingly, one finger-breadth at a time.

Then he puts his foot out, and the next stretch of ledge isn’t where it should be. His breath huffs out of him, and his hands, just above his eye-line, go frantic and claw-like with fright. His wings spring free from the slits in his hoodie on pure reflex. He looks down and feels, shockingly, the sensation of vertigo.

Enjolras remembers Grantaire explaining to him once that the fear of heights and the fear of falling are different things—that the fear of falling is built into something more fundamental than logic; that even babies know to avoid precipitous drops. When had he told him that? Had it been when he’d been teaching Enjolras to fly? Enjolras remembers clinging to the branches of the tree in the old Institute, not six feet off the ground, cutting his fingers on the hard bark. But that had been when he hadn’t known how to fly yet, right? Other than the risk of detection, there’s no real danger here for Enjolras. And yet, the ground looms up at him. It’s strange, he thinks, that hanging onto something precariously is more frightening than deliberately giving up and flying free of it.

He remembers shoving Grantaire off the roof of the old Institute—the way Grantaire’s eyes had gone wide and betrayed, and his arms had back-pedalled wildly, and his wings had thrashed with fright. Regret—not an unfamiliar sensation to Enjolras, nowadays—rises inside him like nausea. He pushes it down violently. He’ll have time for atonement—all the time in the world—but they have to get out of here first.

He readjusts his footing and continues to slide along the ledge, breath hot and fast on his fingers. 

After what feels like an age, he reaches the window. It’s too dark inside for him to see the contents of the room, but it doesn’t matter. He melts the lock and slides the window open, his fingernails almost breaking as he digs them into the stiff window sash. Then he crouches in the window frame, and his little light re-ignites and illuminates the white-walled room.

Against the wall on the far side of the room are two twin beds, and in them are two small boys. They’re hooked up to an array of softly beeping machines and they’re sitting upright, staring at him, eyes shining in the dark.

He wonders how he must look to them—crouched on the window, wings splayed out behind him. He raises his hands in slow supplication: be not afraid.

“Hello,” he says quietly. “Fin? Pan?”

The boys look at each other, and then back at him, their expressions frozen in fear. Enjolras thinks they’re probably about six years old. 

He feels a stab of regret that he’s the one in the room with them, when Courfeyrac, Combeferre and Cosette would all have been better candidates. Softness has never come naturally to him—even when he’d been young, he’d been strident and abrasive. But these children deserve gentle. They deserve kind.

He steps fully into the room, his wings folding away behind him. The hard vinyl floor squeaks under his trainers. He pulls his hood down, and tries to smile at them.

They’re so upsettingly, ridiculously little. Had he, Enjolras, ever been this tiny? Surely not.

“I’m Enjolras,” he says quietly. “It’s nice to meet you. You don’t need to be afraid—I’m here to help.”

He approaches them as slowly as he dares. They don’t move. Their eyes are transfixed on the tips of wings, poking out from behind his back.

“I’ve met your friends,” he says. “Elle and Barre? And Cara and Demi?”

Their eyes focus back on Enjolras, their terror giving way to wariness, and curiosity. 

“I’m going to take you to them, okay?” he continues.

Slowly, the boy on the right nods.

“Okay,” Enjolras sighs.

Close to, Enjolras can see that they’re both missing their front baby teeth. Their eyes are big and brown and scared. He peels electrodes from their foreheads with slow, delicate care, moved to a kind of gentleness he didn’t know he was capable of.

When he’s done, he holds out his hands to both of them, and says, “Come on.”

They take his hands with an unthinking obedience that aches at his bones like a cold room.

He breaks the lock on the door quietly, and cracks the door open. It’s quiet and dark in the corridor beyond.

He tows them along behind him, and they follow without question, their bare feet tapping on the linoleum.

The east side of the building mirrors the west, which means the stairwell is at the furthest end of the corridor from the room the twins were in. Halfway along the corridor, with no prompting, both boys come to a simultaneous, intractable stop. They don’t loosen their grip on his hands, and Enjolras backtracks and crouches down low beside them.

Their huge dark eyes stare into his, expressions newly livid with terror.

“What’s wrong?” Enjolras asks quietly.

“He’s coming,” whispers one of the boys.

“Who?” Enjolras whispers urgently, then immediately decides it doesn’t matter. “Where?” he asks instead.

In eerie, horror-movie unison, they point towards the door of the stairwell.

Enjolras doesn’t wait to hear footsteps, or see the door open. He’s used to believing people who know impossible things.

He hurries the twins through the nearest open door. It’s an office—the kind that the invigilators used to take them into to conduct interviews or ask questions. There’s a big wooden desk, with an expensive ergonomic office chair behind it, and two uncomfortable-looking plastic chairs in front of it. There’s an array of unsettling creature comforts: some plastic lilies in a white vase behind the desk; a box of tissues; bland, meaningless art on the walls. Enjolras spent a lot of his childhood in an office just like this one, right down to the ugly plastic lilies. He thinks about Myriel’s room, with it’s patchwork quilt and photos of the flock, and of Dr Simplice’s office, with it’s bright yellow cushions and collection of Agatha Christie novels. This office, in contrast, is a venus fly trap of a room—pretending to be safe and pretty, filled with poison.

Enjolras pulls the kids behind the desk and crouches down between them, his wings tucking around their shoulders. He extinguishes the little light, and watches the stripe of darkness that demarcates the door of the office from the corridor outside.

There’s a click, and a clunk—the sound of the stairwell door opening, then swishing closed. Then the sound of footsteps along the corridor. Calm, measured, equally spaced.

Tap, tap. Tap, tap. Tap, tap.

Every so often the footsteps stop—Enjolras imagines that whoever it is, they’re checking the rooms methodically. Finally they stop outside the door to the office.

Almost imperceptibly, the shade of darkness at the door changes, and then it begins to open.

Enjolras wills himself less-bright, shoves every ounce of natural illumination he possesses beneath his skin, out of sight, and curses himself for not putting his hood back up. He wills his shoes not to squeak on the floor, and his feathers not to rustle. Next to him, the twins shift infinitesimally closer—a full-body whimper.

It flies in the face of every single one of Enjolras’s instincts to crouch, unmoving, in the face of an advancing predator. He doesn’t know what to do with this pitch of terror— it feels cold and strange under his hands. It’s so much easier to reach for anger, for how dare you try to frighten me.

Enjolras raises his head very slightly and tries to squint at the figure in the doorway.

Then a voice he recognises says, “Hello, Enjolras. It’s been a long time.”

&

 

Grantaire and Eponine take the stairs down to the ground floor four at a time. The banging and shouting rises in volume as they descend, echoing up the stairwell, shattering the tense quiet of the night. Then, just as they’re approaching the ground floor landing, the noise explodes out towards them through the double doors.

It takes a moment for Grantaire to understand what he’s seeing, as the movement of bodies on the ground forms the impression of one flailing, many-limbed creature. But then the figure splits and Grantaire can distinguish: Bahorel, swinging punches with violent precision; a large, broad-shouldered man—a razer Grantaire recognises from the first Institute—underneath him, claws scoring long vicious lines in the floor; next to them, a girl with curly red hair, sharp teeth tearing into the older razer’s shoulder.

Grantaire and Eponine look at each other, then down at the brawl blocking the stairs.

The man flips Bahorel and slams him to the ground, causing the girl to skitter out from between them, her mouth covered in blood. His long, sharp teeth are now an inch, at best, from Bahorel’s jugular, and like a match being struck, that’s the image that sends Grantaire hurtling into the fray, knocking the man over and yanking Bahorel upright.

The razer is almost immediately on his feet again, lunging at Grantaire, who dodges into his shadows. He’s still holding the torch he’d used to investigate the filing cabinets—he turns it on and flashes the lit beam into the man’s vision, close and sudden and blinding. Then, as the man recoils, Grantaire slams the heavy torch into the bridge of his nose.

Grantaire moves back round to where the others are standing next to the door, as the man retreats up the stairs, temporarily blinded and cradling his bleeding face.

“I take it this guy isn’t on our side?” Grantaire asks Bahorel conversationally.

“Who knows?” says Bahorel idly, cracking his neck and causing Eponine to scowl in distaste. “Maybe he just didn’t like the look of me.”

“No one likes the look of you,” mutters Eponine reflexively.

“Grantaire likes the look of me,” says Bahorel, wounded.

“Yeah,” says Grantaire regretfully. “But I’m not proud of it.”

“Mean!”

The man crouching on the half-landing above them seems to weigh his options, eyes flitting from Grantaire to Bahorel to Eponine to the girl. Grantaire thinks the other razers had called him Boo when they’d been children. His hair is long and unruly, and his skin is scarred. Apparently unbothered by his bleeding nose, his gaze rests neutrally on the girl for a moment longer than the rest of them. The girl stares back, chin up, defiant.

Behind them, in the corridor, there comes the resonant, shocking bang of a gun being shot once, twice.

They all turn instinctively, and Grantaire, halting himself on the half pivot, looks back in time to see the razer sprinting up the stairs away from them.

“Well, that solves a problem,” drawls Eponine.

“Hey, thanks for the assist,” says Bahorel to the redhead. He holds out his hand for a high-five, and the girl returns it, grinning.

“Grantaire, Eponine, this is Cara. She’s badass.”

“Rel, what the fuck is going on in there?” asks Eponine, jerking her head towards the door.

“Uhh,” Bahorel shrugs, glancing towards the door as another gunshot rings out. “Violence?”

Eponine stares at him.

“Well,” says Bahorel, clapping his hands together with an unreasonable amount of glee. “Better get back to it!”

He throws open the door and charges through. Grantaire, Eponine and Cara follow. 

The stairwell exits directly opposite the back door—the one Grantaire and Enjolras had originally used to enter the building. The flock, along with Cara and two other razer kids, are right in the centre of the intersection between the doors to the compound, the doors to the stairwell, and the corridors to the east and west wings. They’ve managed to hold onto their strategic position in front of the exit, but there’s a group of older razers converging on them from the corridor leading to the east wing. The corridor to the west wing is empty, as is the stairwell that Eponine and Grantaire have just come down, but both of those routes will take them further into the building rather than out of it.

Between the razers and the flock is a pile of tables, desk chairs and filing cabinets, which seem to be working reasonably well in protecting the flock from the brunt of the razers’ attack. Kneeling on a desk halfway up this tower of office furniture is Jehan, with a gun in his hand. As Grantaire watches, Jehan swoops upwards and, eyes squeezed shut in concentration, shoots three bullets in quick succession into the dark corridor, before immediately ducking down again.

“You gave Jehan a gun?” shouts Eponine, moving to join him at the barrier. 

“He’s the only one who can see anything!” shouts Feuilly, from where he’s jamming more furniture on the pile. “I don’t know if you’ve noticed but it’s fucking dark in here, Eponine.”

“Are you done with this door?” Combeferre asks politely, and Grantaire does a double take when he realises the question is directed at him.

“Eh?” he replies coherently.

Musichetta pulls Grantaire out of the stairwell doorway by his arm. Combeferre immediately closes the double doors, and threads a bar of metal through the two handles. The boy razer appears beside them and bends the metal with his bare hands, effectively locking the door in place.

“Thank you, Barre,” says Combeferre with a smile.

“Where’s Enjolras?” Grantaire asks.

“He went to get the other two kids out,” says Courfeyrac, suddenly at Grantaire’s elbow. “He’s in the east wing, second floor, he said he’d meet us down here.”

Grantaire eyes the corridor to the east wing, cut off by a makeshift barricade and a group of heavily fanged aggressors.

“Oh,” he says, nodding. “Good.”

“We need to get out of here,” says Musichetta, her gaze sweeping across the situation with sharp, worried concentration.

“I need to find Enjolras, but we can catch up with you,” Grantaire says.

Bahorel hurls a drawer from a filing cabinet over their makeshift barrier and Jehan fires twice more into the corridor beyond.

“Have you seen any other guards?” Grantaire asks.

Musichetta looks at him and he sees his own creeping worry reflected back at him in her eyes. “No.”

“They don’t seem to be patrolling the corridors, they’re not here—” Grantaire trails off.

“We need to get out of here,” Musichetta repeats. “Before they cut us off.”

Grantaire opens the door to the exit. The compound is dark and quiet and still. He squints towards the east and west sides of the enclosure. He can’t see much from this distance but he hopes, desperately, that there aren’t guards moving round the sides of the fence. If they get to the gate at the back before the flock do, they’re all deeply fucked.

“You need to get everybody out,” he tells Musichetta. “You should just run, now. Me and Enjolras can get the other two kids out.”

“How?” Musichetta asks, exasperatedly. “As soon as we stop fighting back the razers are going to be right on top of us. You want me to leave a few people behind to hold the line?”

Grantaire glances at Bahorel, Feuilly, Jehan and Eponine, who are raining heavy metal office supplies—and bullets—down on the razers. They’d stay without a thought, he knows. The problem is that nobody would leave them.

“What do we do if the guards get through the gate and into the compound while we’re still in the building?” Grantaire asks. He knows there’s no answer, but he thinks they’ve reached the point where somebody should verbalise the possibility. 

Musichetta’s lips thin, and she shakes her head slowly.

Grantaire stares at her, and wonders seriously, for the first time tonight, if they might not actually get out of here.

And at that exact moment the overhead lights begin to flash on and off in frantic, flickering unison.

&

 

Enjolras stands. It feels better, to be on his feet. If he has to die, he won’t do it on his knees.

His first thought, strangely, is that Phillips is shorter than him.

It’s almost enough to shock a laugh out of him, it’s so ridiculous. This monstrous creature that towered over Enjolras’s nightmares, that tore Grantaire’s wings from him, that systematically laid waste to Enjolras’s entire childhood…He can’t be any taller than five foot six.

Enjolras’s second thought is that he hates this man with every particle of his soul.

It’s a choking, blind, wild kind of hatred. Like swallowing salt water instead of air, it knocks the breath out of him, makes him want to gag.

There’s a gun in Phillips’s hand, pointed straight at Enjolras’s head. The twins are behind him, behind the protective screen of his wings. They’re backed against the wall, and there’s no way they’d make it to the window faster than a bullet.

“How have you been?” asks Phillips mildly. He looks Enjolras up and down with an open, naked curiosity that Enjolras finds revolting. He wants to take Phillips’s eyes out, so that they’ll never look at anyone again.

Phillips seems to see some of Enjolras’s contempt in his expression, because he laughs quietly. “I think you’d better hand over the children now, Enjolras. We don’t want anyone getting hurt.” 

Phillips’s tone holds a kind of conspiratorial affability—as if Enjolras, now an adult, will surely see the logic and reason inherent in his suggestion. It’s so shocking, so galling that it stuns Enjolras into silence. We don’t want anyone getting hurt, as if the hurt caused by this man won’t echo through Enjolras and his family’s lives until the day they die. Hand over the children, as if they’re things. As if they’re nothing. 

There’s a beat of silence in Enjolras’s mind, a kind of ringing disbelief. For one bright, frozen moment, the whole world seems trapped in a vice of misery that he’s powerless to change. And then it comes all at once: a screaming howl of fury, like a hurricane-strength wind. It drowns out any thought, any fear, and any consideration of the gun in Phillips’ hand.

“No, I don’t think so,” he says, and his voice sounds strange, even to himself. He feels cold and still, like the eye of a storm.

He breathes: in, and out.

This is the anger that lives in his heart, carefully banked. This is the fury that burned the last Institute to the ground. Only Grantaire can begin to understand the wild extremes of this reflex of feeling—the consuming, alchemical reaction that starts in Enjolras’s sternum and transforms the world around him. Grantaire’s dense shadows are fed by his despair, the inverse of Enjolras’s rage, two different forms of wretchedness made manifest by this strange power, lurking in their twisted genetic code. Enjolras feels electric and volatile, his throat thick with ozone, a lightning strike barely contained by thin skin and fragile bone.

He is not going to die here tonight, at the hands of this pathetic old man. Phillips isn’t going to take any more from him, or his family, or Grantaire. And he’s not going to take anything more from these children, either. Enjolras does not consent to die.

Across the vast sweeping highlands of Scotland, down into Glasgow and Edinburgh, up past Inverness and Aberdeen, out at sea on the oil rigs, and across the Irish channel, lights begin to flash.

Torches, car headlights in driveways, night lights, street lights, oven lights, bedside lights. All over the country, people wake up because the world, unexpectedly, is illuminated.

Inside the Institute the white walls reflect a cacophony of light. A flashing, blinding blaze of brightness.

Enjolras stands taller, and looks Phillips in the eye.

Phillips takes a swift, unconscious step back, then grits his teeth and adjusts his hold on the gun.

He looks terrified, Enjolras thinks. Good.

Then Phillips fires the gun.

&1

 

Grantaire had thought that the darkness, combined with the banging and screaming and shouting, had been disorientating. Now the corridor is flashing black and white with light, turning the world into one of those spiralling optical illusions that follow you even when your eyes are closed. Worse than the disorientation is the dread—there’s a barricade and a building between Grantaire and the person he loves most in the world, and that person is currently beaming out an SOS signal brighter than the sun.

Grantaire launches himself forwards; planting his right foot on a filing cabinet, springing his left foot off a chair, he dives over the barrier, wings out, cloaked in shadow, into the melee beyond.

He hits the ground hard because he can’t see it, rolls to protect his head, and emerges beyond the group of razers trying to get past the makeshift barrier. He spots a gun on the floor that’s spun out of the way of the fight, and picks it up. It feels as heavy and cold and unpleasant as he remembers, fitting strangely around his fingers. He counts about eleven razers in the corridor—none of them look particularly dead or mortally injured, which means Jehan must be using the gun as more of a temporary deterrent than a permanent one. It occurs to Grantaire, as he sprints down the corridor, that for all that the razers are certainly making their presence known, they’re not really attacking with zeal. He’s not sure if that’s because none of them particularly fancy dying at the hands of a blind millennial with a gun, or if it’s because they’re trying to keep the flock stuck in one place. He certainly hopes it’s the former, but he’s starting to get the feeling that someone has outplayed them at chess and they haven’t noticed yet.

He hits the stairs at the end of the east wing corridor at a sprint and immediately takes flight, soaring straight up the central well of the staircase to the second floor. He ignores the flash of stairs and landings and walls, white and black, vivid as migraines, and springs his foot off the banister, plunging through the doors.

He hurls himself along the corridor, running in an out-of-control, staggering sprint, half blind. The walls get brighter and brighter, until it feels like he’s running straight into the sun, and he can’t open his eyes, but he can feel the straight lines of a doorway under his fingers, and then the flashing lights stop, and Grantaire stops, and everything stops.

Someone has a gun held out at Enjolras, and like the distant clash of thunder after a flash of illumination, Grantaire hears the belated bang of a gun.

Time stops working.

Enjolras’s hands are raised, not in supplication, but in a kind of biblical, fiery command. His wings are splayed behind him and they blaze with their own fierce, blinding golden light. There’s a radiating aura of brilliance around him, like a halo in a renaissance painting; it looks nearly solid. 

The bullet passes through it and hurls Enjolras backwards—

Grantaire must shout something, because Enjolras’s gaze jerks towards him, and Phillips—Phillips, of course it’s Phillips—spins around, and Grantaire’s arm moves like it’s on a marionette string, wrenched by hatred and fury and a wild, righteous, screaming despair.

Darkness like volcanic ash explodes into the room, a tumbling racing mass of it, swirling around Phillips, who screams, high and terrified, caught in a dust storm of pain.

Grantaire clenches his fist, and all movement stops. Phillips is cocooned in darkness, mouth open in a scream that’s stopped arriving. He stares at Grantaire as if he, Grantaire, is the nightmare, the boogey-man in the closet, the monster under the bed.

Grantaire bares his teeth in a grin. If he was Phillips, he’s sure he’d think so too.

There’s quiet for a moment. Phillips’ mouth gapes wildly, like a fish out of water, and Grantaire pulls back some of the tendrils of agony from the shadow storm. He hadn’t known he could do that any more. What a nice surprise.

Phillips makes a sound between a wail and a whimper. “Please, Grantaire—” he says, and his finger moves infinitesimally towards the trigger of the gun.

With his left hand, with the unthinking muscle memory of childhood, Grantaire empties the contents of his gun into Phillips’ head. 

Phillips drops to the ground, heavy and loud and dead. 

The shadows empty from the room like smoke blowing in a high wind.

Grantaire clears the office in two leaping strides and reaches Enjolras’s prone body before he can even begin to process what’s just happened. 

Enjolras’s eyes are closed and his face is pale. His hoodie is singed and burnt in places.Two young boys crawl out from beneath his wings and crouch trembling together under the desk, eyes wide and fixed on Grantaire.

Grantaire ignores them, and scrabbles with Enjolras’s hoodie, struggling with the zip, which appears to have melted, the zipper teeth smoothed into a liquid black line of friable metal.

There’s a strange liquid pooled over Enjolras’s abdomen and chest, warm and viscous, and Grantaire is so hysterical for a moment that he thinks does Enjolras bleed silver? But then he manages to rip the hoodie off of him, down to the soft maroon t-shirt underneath, and when he pulls it up there’s…nothing. No bullet wound. Just a pulse under his fingers, strong and fast and alive.

Grantaire pulls Enjolras into his lap, presses their foreheads together, and allows a choked sob of terror to escape him.

Enjolras stirs and opens his eyes—light amber, gentle, no longer aglow with supernatural fire.

“I just need a second,” says Grantaire, keeping his eyes scrunched shut and his forehead pressed to Enjolras’s, concentrating all his energy on crushing the screaming existential terror of the last five seconds into a little locked box in his head that he’s sure Dahlia will disapprove of, if he ever gets the chance to tell her about it.

“Are you alright?” Enjolras asks hesitantly.

“Go fuck yourself,” says Grantaire. “No. Yes, I’m fine.”

Enjolras struggles to sit up, and Grantaire helps him.

“What happened?” he asks, rubbing the back of his head bemusedly.

“You melted a moving bullet,” says Grantaire, scowling.

“Ah,” says Enjolras, as if that clarifies things. “My head hurts.”

“You probably hit it when you fell,” says Grantaire, snorting softly. He runs his fingers through Enjolras’s curls, cradling his skull. There’s so little of him, really. Bones and feathers. It feels horribly unfair.

Aloud, Grantaire says, “You have a bump on your head.” He kisses Enjolras in the delicate hollow of his temple.

“Well, that explains it,” says Enjolras mildly. He peers over Grantaire’s shoulder, towards Phillips, crumpled on the floor. “Is he dead?”

“Yes,” says Grantaire.

“Good,” says Enjolras. He looks closely at Grantaire, and Grantaire isn’t sure what he’s looking for, or what he sees. But then Enjolras smiles, just a little uptick at the corner of his mouth, and kisses him. It feels like a benediction.

“Love you,” says Grantaire.

“You too,” says Enjolras, still smiling. It’s a tired, fraught kind of smile, but it still makes Grantaire’s heart do a little jump in his chest.

“You turned the lights back on,” Grantaire observes with a wry grin. “You could have just asked me to stop turning them off, you know. You didn’t have to wrestle the remote away from me. Very rude.”

Enjolras looks up at the fluorescents and then back at Grantaire, eyes wide. "Do you think we lost the element of surprise?" he asks.

Grantaire snorts. 

 

Enjolras turns to the kids, who are hiding under the desk. “Are you guys okay?” he asks, and his voice is softer than Grantaire has ever heard it before.

The twins nod. To their credit, they don’t look too shaken. They shuffle out from under the desk with minimal prompting.

“Are you hurt?” one asks Enjolras quietly.

“No, I’m fine,” says Enjolras, “see?” He kneels down in front of them, as if to prove that he’s still intact. 

“Did you really melt the bullet?” the other one asks, eyes wide.

Enjolras grins. “Yep.”

“Cool,” he replies.

“Is he really dead?” the first twin asks, looking worriedly at Phillips.

“Yes,” says Grantaire. They both look at him and he inclines his head. “I promise.”

“Good,” says the first twin. They both look very relieved, but also confused, like they don’t quite know what they’re supposed to do now. 


 


Right, Grantaire reminds himself. We’re supposed to be the grown-ups here.

“Are you two sure you’re okay?” Enjolras asks, reaching out to them. “You didn’t get hurt when I fell, did you?”

“We were under your wings,” says the second twin. “They’re soft.”

Enjolras nods seriously. “That’s good. I’d be very embarrassed if they weren’t soft.”

Behind them, the door to the office bangs open again.

Grantaire spins and scrambles wildly for the gun. Enjolras tugs both children behind him and a bright, fiery sphere appears in the air in front of him, much more dangerous-looking than the torch-light he’d used previously.

Gavroche stands in the doorway, looking unimpressed.

“Gav!” hisses Grantaire, striding towards him and pulling him into the room, glancing up and down the corridor outside to ensure he hasn’t been followed. “What are you doing? How did you get past the barrier?”

"I'm good at getting into places," Gavroche grins. Then he looks down and sees Phillips. “Oh, cool, that guy’s dead. Nice one.”

"This isn't the Dutch embassy, Gav," says Enjolras testily, as Grantaire grimaces at Gavroche’s frighteningly chipper attitude towards murder.

“Wait, what?” Grantaire asks, as his brain catches up to Enjolras’s last words.

Enjolras clarifies, “Gavroche thought it would be funny to sneak into his friend's bedroom to surprise him, but unfortunately Gavroche goes to a very fancy international school, and his friend is the son of the Dutch ambassador. So Gavroche nearly caused an international incident."

Grantaire waits until Enjolras turns back to the twins to make sure they’re alright before he gives Gavroche an impressed nod. 

"I saw that," mutters Enjolras.

“So, we have a problem,” says Gavroche conversationally, wandering over to the south-facing office windows.

“What?” asks Grantaire.

Gavroche points out the window, an uncharacteristically serious expression on his face.

Grantaire and Enjolras look down.

A group of about thirty guards have entered the compound through the same gate as Grantaire and Enjolras, and arrayed themselves in front of the door to the Institute, blocking off the exit.

Grantaire puts his face in his hands. “Shit.”

“They came round the outside perimeter?” Enjolras asks.

“Yeah,” says Gavroche. “Chetta says they’ve been a few steps ahead of us from the start. It’s like they knew what we were gonna do.”

“I suppose it’s only logical,” says Enjolras with a sigh. “There are only so many ways into this place.” He squints at Grantaire. “What is it?”

“Nothing,” says Grantaire, taking his head out of his hands. “Just…I wonder if Montparnasse told them we were coming, is all. It feels like we’ve walked straight into a trap.”

Enjolras frowns. “I don’t know. I mean, we have walked into a trap, but we knew that coming in. Isn’t it more likely that they’ve just…been keeping people imprisoned for a very long time, and they’re good at it? I mean, we walked straight in the back door, and our escape plan was walk out of it again. It doesn’t take a lot of strategic thinking to foil that.”

“Maybe we should talk about how bad you guys are at planning things later,” says Gavroche. “Have you got any idea what to do now? Cause we’re kind of stuck down there.”

Grantaire stares down at the compound, chewing his lip absently. The guards are heavily armoured and kitted out with full riot gear—batons, riot shields and guns are arrayed with military precision. It’s eerily quiet.

“We need to cause a distraction,” says Grantaire with a frown. “On the other side of the compound. Me and Enjolras can fly over them and cause a ruckus, draw them away from the door. That might give the others a chance to run.”

“What about me?” asks Gavroche, frowning. “I’m good at ruckuses.”

“We know,” Grantaire and Enjolras say simultaneously.

“We can’t carry the kids down with us, I don’t think,” says Enjolras hesitantly.

Grantaire turns to one of the twins. “Can I lift you for a second?” he asks. The boy hesitates and then shakes his head. Grantaire turns to the other twin. “How about you, can I lift you a sec? I just wanna see if you’re super heavy.”

“I’m not heavy,” says the second twin, and holds his arms up in a universal up gesture.

Grantaire lifts him and joogles him up and down a bit. The kid laughs. “About twenty kilos?” Grantaire says, putting him down again. “I could carry him around a shopping centre, but I think flying would really be more of a falling with style experience.”

“You’re gonna have to take them back downstairs, Gav,” says Enjolras reluctantly. “Grantaire needs to keep me and him invisible when we fly down, and then I think I’ve got the best chance of causing a distraction, of all of us.”

“They’ll be safer with the others, too,” says Grantaire. “And who knows? The other kids might not even leave the building without them. We wouldn’t have left without you.”

“So, take them to the others?” Gavroche asks.

Grantaire and Enjolras look at each other. “Yes,” says Enjolras. “Do you think you can get them there without getting into trouble?”

“Oh, that’s no problem,” says Gavroche, with a grin. He turns to the kids. “My name’s Gav. What’s yours?”

Grantaire would have assumed that Gavroche's boundless, semi-manic energy would have been intimidating for two young children in the middle of a deeply traumatic experience, but apparently that is not the case. They gaze up at him with something between awe and amusement.

“I’m Pan,” says one of the twins, “and that’s Fin.”

“Cool beans,” says Gavroche. “Well, we’d best be going.” He holds out his hands, and surprisingly, the twins latch on immediately.

“We’ll give you fifteen minutes to get down,” says Grantaire. “And then we’ll start ruckus-ing.”

“Okiedokie,” Gavroche says. “See you on the other side.”

“Be careful, Gav,” says Enjolras seriously.

“Aye aye, Captain,” says Gavroche, eminently less serious.

He leads the twins out the door without a backwards glance. From the corridor they hear him say, “So, which one of you is the evil twin? Just so that I can be prepared. What? No you can’t both be the evil one—”

“Was that wise, d’ya think?” Grantaire asks, turning to Enjolras.

“He’s not joking about being able to get into places he shouldn’t,” says Enjolras gravely, turning back to the window.

Grantaire keeps catching sight of Phillips’ dead body on the floor, and the pooling blood under him. He doesn’t think they need to talk about it, really. Especially not here and now. He turns his back on the room and faces the window again.

“How do you mean?” he asks, eager to fill the silence with something other than death or fear.

Enjolras glances at him. “It’s only come up in the past few years because he sneaks out more and there’s less of us in the house now, so Javert and Valjean pay more attention. I don’t even know, specifically, what it is that he does. It’s not like he’s you—he can’t turn himself invisible. But if he wants to get in somewhere there’s literally no stopping him.”

“I’ve never noticed that,” says Grantaire, frowning.

“Well, he doesn’t tell us because apparently we suffocate him,” says Enjolras, rolling his eyes. “But Eponine found his ‘urban exploration’ blog last year—” He traces air quotes as he says it. “That went down very badly. He’d been exploring abandoned tube stations and all sorts. He’s got photos of him riding his skateboard around Harrods in the middle of the night. He’s got selfies from the top of the Shard—I mean obviously he’s not going to fall off but it wouldn’t be ideal if he was seen. Anyway he got shouted at by pretty much everybody. I thought he’d asked you if he could move to Paris because of it.”

“Yeah he did, but he didn’t tell me why,” says Grantaire, amused. He thinks, a little guiltily, of his own subterranean and rooftop adventures in Paris.

Enjolras rolls his eyes. “Yeah, your postcards really added fuel to that particular fire. I think we all got a bit tired of the phrase but Grantaire’s allowed to do it.”

“That little shit is always trying to drag me down with him,” says Grantaire, grinning.

Enjolras snorts. “Not sure why he bothers, when you do such a good job of getting there all by yourself.”

Grantaire laughs and gets a lopsided smile in return.

They wait out the fifteen minutes, the minute hand crawling round the circumference of Grantaire’s watch, keeping an eye on the guards outside the whole time. 

“Ready?” Grantaire asks, as the last minute runs itself out.

“Ready,” says Enjolras. He opens the window.

Grantaire stretches out his hand towards the ground and darkness pours down the walls of the Institute like a waterfall, fingers of shadow racing towards the bottom, hitting the ground around the feet of the guards and pooling around them like liquid smoke.

Shouting erupts immediately, and Grantaire can see, through the screen of his own shadows, the careful regiment of guards fall into chaos.

Enjolras places one foot on the edge of the window, and glances back quickly at Grantaire.

“Okay?” he asks.

Grantaire experiences a momentary flash of surprise. Enjolras has always plunged straight into danger without looking back. Not this time, it appears. 

“Okay,” says Grantaire, smiling encouragingly, hoping that his fear isn’t too bright behind his eyes.

Enjolras smiles, and certainty pours off of him, brighter than any illusory light. “We’re going to be okay,” he says, and Grantaire has to believe him, in that moment.

Then Enjolras launches himself out of the window and into the air, free-falling several feet before his wings spread and catch, swooping down over the shadowy morass below.

And Grantaire follows, because of course he does.

They land on the ground, some thirty feet from the soldiers, who continue to shout and panic from within the dense, illusory smoke screen.

Grantaire tilts his head to look at Enjolras through his eyelashes. “Your turn,” he coos.

Enjolras rolls his eyes, grins, and ignites.

 

It feels as though they’re enclosed within the sun. Light surrounds them, golden and blazing, and the guards turn towards them immediately—they’re the only visible point of light through the dense shadows, and people are people, after all. They head towards light.

The guards converge on them, and attempt to push through the sphere of light that Enjolras has raised around them. Grantaire watches as riot shields and batons melt and run flat down the outside of the light, contouring as if to a solid shape.

Then there’s movement, and Grantaire can see people sprinting around the guards to the left and right. He makes out Cosette on the left flank by the streaming brightness of her hair in the moonlight, and Bahorel on the right flank, by virtue of his size.

The guards notice quickly, turning away from Enjolras’s light and towards the running figures. Grantaire clenches his fist and hurls shadows into the midst of them, trying to corral them away from his family. Some of the guards make it through, with most of them heading towards the right flank, where Bahorel, and—Grantaire can see better now—Bossuet, Joly and Musichetta are making a run for it. Joly is on Bossuet’s back and together they’re a slow, easy target. Grantaire sees a few guards converge on them, and takes off running towards them without a thought.

As he approaches, he sees Eponine and Jehan closing in between the guards and Joly and Bossuet, trying to cut them off. Bahorel appears to be fighting three guards and a razer simultaneously, a riot baton in each hand. Jehan is weaving his way through the chaos with calm deliberation, as if he’s dancing, dodging blows before they’ve even fallen. Eponine is a whirling storm of violence that none of the guards seem to be able to get near.

Grantaire, running flat out towards them, sees a guard approach her from behind and shouts— “Ponine!” As Eponine’s head whips round towards him, the guard catches her on the side with a taser, sending her sprawling to the ground with a shout of pain.

Gavroche, who as far as Grantaire can tell hadn’t been anywhere near them before that moment, appears from seemingly nowhere and launches himself at the guard, wrestling first the riot shield and then the taser away from him, jamming it into the man’s chest in retaliation.

Another guard descends on Gavroche, pointing a gun at his head. Grantaire, sprinting towards them, is still ten useless feet away—he strikes the man in the face with a blast of shadowy pain and the man falls, screaming, to the ground. Grantaire doesn’t stop the assault until he’s helped Gavroche back to his feet and made sure he’s okay, because at the end of the day there are fucking consequences for pointing a gun at Grantaire’s baby brother.

He helps Eponine to her feet next. She looks grey-faced and grim, and is holding her side.

“Are you alright?” Grantaire asks.

She nods. “Where’s Enjolras?”

Grantaire casts around for Enjolras and catches sight of a flash of gold across the compound, in the direction of Cosette and the others. “Over there,” he says. “With the others.”

“We need to get to them,” says Musichetta, her eyes casting around desperately. “We need to get to the gate.”

But they’re getting pushed back, ceding ground in the direction of the Institute again, unable to hold their position against attackers with riot shields and batons and tasers.

“Can we fly over the top of them?” shouts Bahorel, cracking his batons one after the other into a shield and then smacking the guard round the head.

“They’d shoot us out the sky,” Eponine calls back, kicking out at a razer who’s gotten too close, and getting claw marks raked along her shin in retaliation. 

“Don’t let them get at your wings at all,” shouts Musichetta, from where she’s sticking close to Bossuet and Joly. “Keep them in. They’re massive targets.”

They get pushed back again, and again.

Grantaire throws up shadows between them and the guards, but the guards just plunge through and out the other side towards them. He shoots at them, and the bullets crack off the riot shields and kevlar, barely putting a dent in the swarm of faceless, weaponised aggressors.

Grantaire casts around desperately, trying to find a gap, a space, any way to get through towards the back of the compound. But the guards are closing ranks. It’s a bottleneck, as Musichetta had feared—too many people trying to escape through too small a space. As Grantaire’s mind grapples with the problem, he’s met with a sinking sensation of deja vu. This has always been the problem: the flock operates as a unit. If you’ve got one, you’ve got the whole set. Hadn’t Grantaire and Enjolras all but proven that tonight, when they’d walked straight through the doors of their own free will? For this plan to work they have to get everybody out. But all the guards have to do is ensure they’re left holding one prisoner.

Grantaire, distracted, doesn’t notice the guard swinging a baton towards his head. Musichetta, thankfully, does. She spins through the air, her wings propelling her into a kick that sends the guard flying backwards. “Careful!” she shouts.

Grantaire catches Gavroche by the arm. “You should get out of here,” he tells him seriously. “Get out and we’ll follow.”

Gavroche shrugs roughly out of Grantaire’s hold, his expression furious. “I’m not leaving without you!”

“You can get out!”

“So could you!”

“Do what I say!”

Then there’s a noise that rips the air in half around them.

Grantaire thinks for a moment that someone has died and Enjolras has gone supernova. The light is so blinding, the noise is so loud, his ears scream and his eyes stream, and the white light is imprinted upon his eyelids like a brand.

He’s fallen backwards onto the concrete, as has Musichetta. Eponine wrenches them to their feet, and as he watches her lips move in a shout that he can’t hear over all the ringing. Jehan is on the ground, curled in a ball, hands over his ears, and Bahorel picks him and cradles him in his arms.

He reads, ‘Stun grenade,’ from Musichetta’s lips—her eyes are full of reflexive tears of pain.

They get pushed back, and back, staggering. Grantaire tries to aim his shadows at the guards with his vision blurred and Gavroche swings valiantly with his fists, and Eponine kicks out at anyone in her radius, but still, they get pushed.

Then there’s a hissssss and white smoke pours across the ground around their feet, as fast and furious as Grantaire’s shadows, and there’s a sting in the air that builds, fast and unexpected, and catches, choking, in the back of Grantaire’s throat.

“TEAR GAS,” Bahorel screams in his ear, wrenching his jacket protectively over Jehan’s face.

Gavroche takes a glancing blow from a baton and trips backwards, sprawling at Grantaire’s feet; Grantaire wrenches him up and he and Eponine shove themselves in front of him, getting between Gavroche and the advancing guards.

They stumble back further, until the wall of the Institute looms up suddenly and horrifyingly at their backs, and they’re flat against it, and there’s a wall of guards in front of them too, a wall of riot shields and acrid, burning, screaming smoke, pressing in on them with bloody hostility.

Grantaire can’t see, he can’t hear. A relentless wave of brutality breaks on them like a shoreline. At their backs, the hard, rough stone of the building. To all sides, that poisonous smoke.

Someone reaches out, grabs at Eponine’s arm and yanks, trying to tug her into the clash of guards. Musichetta screams and wraps her arms around Eponine, hauling her backwards. The image of a thick gloved hand wrapped around Eponine’s thin wrist is bright and brutal in the chaos around them. Grantaire lunges forward and grabs the guard’s arm, shoving pain through his own fingers and into the man’s—he screams, and Eponine tumbles backwards into Musichetta. The guards press closer, and the violence around them escalates.

Then there’s a commotion, and a bright, warm explosion of light erupts on the other side of the pandemonium directly in front of them, and there’s a great swell of movement, as guards turn and jostle sideways, and there, Enjolras, ablaze with light. Cosette and Courfeyrac come hurtling through the crowd beside him, followed by Feuilly and Combeferre.

Feuilly has acquired a gun, and is shooting into the crowd of guards, teeth bared in a disgusted grimace. Courfeyrac is bleeding from a bright gash on his forehead. Cosette’s pale wings are red with blood that Grantaire can’t see the source of; she doesn’t seem to be hurt.

Enjolras reaches Grantaire’s side. He’s panting, a dark red bruise is blossoming across his face, and he’s the best thing Grantaire has ever seen.

“Well, that plan went well,” Grantaire observes, loudly, because he’s still at least partially deaf.

“Can’t imagine why,” Enjolras shouts back.

He throws up his hands and in front of them, along the narrow No Man’s Land between them and the advancing guards, a wall of light ignites.

Grantaire sees a guard throw a stun grenade. He hurls a hasty mess of shadows into Enjolras’s barrier to shield their eyes from the explosion. The grenade strikes the wall and detonates like it’s hit a line of petrol, lightning strikes of fire tumbling through dark cloudy penumbra. Even from behind the shadows the light is an almost physical force, and the flock flinch and shield their eyes from it. On the other side of their barricade, the guards fall back from the detonation, shouting.

Enjolras takes advantage of the moment of retreat and pushes forwards with the wall.

“Where are the kids?” Grantaire shouts.

Enjolras’s whips around, scanning the area, then turns back to Grantaire, eyes wide and panicked. “They were right behind me!”

Then they hear Courfeyrac shout, “Jehan!” and swing around.

Jehan has fallen to the ground, holding his ears, mouth open in a silent scream.

“What’s wrong?” Cosette falls to her knees beside him. “Jehan!”

“That noise!” Jehan’s voice is thin and high with pain.

The flock turn to each other, aghast and bewildered.

“The stun grenade?” Courfeyrac asks.

Grantaire notices, idly, that his teeth ache. Across from him, frowning, Combeferre takes off his glasses and examines the newly cracked glass.

“Look!” Gavroche shouts, pointing.

One of the guards is blowing a whistle. It’s a bizarre sight, and Grantaire can see why it stood out to him. The other guards are grouped around, stun batons and riot shields in hand, and in amongst them one man is blowing what appears to be a long penny whistle.

More noticeably, several of the other people in the crowd have also fallen to their knees, hands over their ears, expressions bared in grimaces of pain—the older razers.

The guards move, and seem to fan out slightly, and through a gap in the crowd, off to the right, they can see the kids.

They’re backed against the western fence of the compound. The older kids—Elle, Cara and Barre—are on their knees, in much the same position as Jehan, curled up with their hands clamped hard around their ears. Behind them, pressed as close to the fence and each other as possible, are the twins.

As they watch, a guard steps over the prone children, reaches out and picks up one of the twins up by the scruff of the neck. Elle staggers upright, hunched as though weighed down by something horribly heavy, and takes a clumsy, lunging swipe at the guard, who kicks her away. The boy in his hold writhes fiercely, and his twin howls, a high piercing shriek that carries across the compound and seizes Grantaire by the throat. Then the howling twin hurls himself forwards and sinks his teeth into the guard’s thigh. The guard shouts and swings the baton down in an arc towards the boy. The flock stand frozen, too far away to get there in time, blockaded by the guards and their own barricade of light. Somewhere behind Grantaire, Courfeyrac shouts out in helpless fury.

And then a figure hurtles out of nowhere, out of thin air, and collides with the guard with immense force before the baton can complete its arc. They spin through the air to their feet, wings flaring out behind them, and plant themselves between the children and the advancing guard. Eponine’s wordless cry of horror shoots through Grantaire’s heart like a knife.

Gavroche grins at the advancing guard, and a new pitch of terror rings high in Grantaire’s ears.

“How?” Courfeyrac shouts, anguished. “He was right next to me!”

A gun fires, a shocking crack that jumps through them all like a live wire. Gavroche moves faster than Grantaire’s eyes can follow, dodging clear out of the way. He throws back his head and laughs, jeering, “Try harder!”

There’s a lightness to him, a speed that’s at once very familiar and totally foreign to Grantaire. He’s struck by the strange impression that this is both how Gavroche always moves and also how no normal human moves, and somehow, insanely, he’s never noticed it before.

Another crack, and Combeferre makes a noise like he’s just been punched in the throat. Cosette chokes on a sob.

Gavroche pirouettes thought the air, wings folding around him, and lands lightly again, still laughing.

Another bang, and Gavroche dodges again

Then Jehan shouts behind them, and the glass on Grantaire’s wristwatch fractures, and across the compound the children cry out in unison.

Gavroche spins back towards the kids, an instinctual, worried movement, and then there’s another crack, and Gavroche falls.

The noise of his family screaming out at once, a collective outpouring of horror, is a noise that will echo in Grantaire’s ears, like the sea in a conch shell, forever and forever.

Grantaire stops being Grantaire for a little while. He’s not sure that even he can feel the edges of himself. He plunges through the light of Enjolras’s barricade as if it’s a warm summer’s day, and the guards fold and crumple like cards in the face of his invisible, violent onslaught. He’s nothing, made manifest. Guards and razers scream around him in the face of his invisible, crackling pain. There’s no room left in Grantaire for any kind of mercy.

He breaks through the guards, leaving chaos in his wake, and comes out the other side in a sprint, making it to Gavroche’s side in seconds.

He hurls up his own barricade, one of solid shadows, though it takes immense effort to focus enough to do so.

The children are crouched around Gavroche and Grantaire moves them gently away. There’s dark blood, almost black on the cement ground, and it’s everywhere. Grantaire rips off Gavroche’s Institute-issued shirt, but his chest and abdomen are pale and unblemished in the moonlight. Then he finds the wound; a small wet hole in the meat of Gavroche’s shoulder, blood trickling steadily out of it.

Grantaire’s throat spasms and he lets out a damp sound of relief, leaning his head down momentarily on Gavroche’s chest

“Oh no,” mutters Gavroche, his face pale. “Not my rippling biceps.”

“It’s your fucking deltoid, you little piece of shit,” says Grantaire, crying openly.

“Will he be alright?” says one of the twins.

“He’ll be fine,” says Elle, screwing a finger into her ear with a pained expression.

“Has the whistle stopped?” Grantaire asks.

“Yeah, I think you killed him with your brain,” says Elle frankly.

Grantaire takes off his own hoodie and tries to tear strips from it, but the material is too thick. Cara takes it from him gently and tears it with her teeth. He folds one of the strips into a pad and places it on the wound, then ties another strip around Gavroche’s arm to keep it in place. Gavroche makes an, “Ah! Ah!” noise of pain and kicks a bit at the ground, which Grantaire ignores because Gavroche has taken fifty years off Grantaire’s life tonight.

He wrestles Gavroche back into his t-shirt, to keep the makeshift dressing in place, and then into the remains of Grantaire’s sweater, to keep him warm.

An explosion vibrates through the ground, crashing against the walls of the barricade, making Grantaire reel. Next to him, the kids are crouched on the ground, eyes wide.

Grantaire has never felt like he’s hit the limits of his power before, but he’s starting to strain. In spite of the jitter of adrenaline in his limbs, he knows he’s slowing down. Every movement feels like he’s wading through chest-deep water, against a current that’s dragging him backwards. But there’s no way to see the others, positioned as they are, and he’s worried about what his family will be moved to, while they don’t know that Gavroche isn’t dead. Grantaire wreathes himself in shadows and steps through the barricade.

Enjolras’s glowing wall has fallen, and his family are fighting furiously, trying to get towards Grantaire. Cosette has made the most progress. As Grantaire watches, she leaps over a fallen guard, swerving in mid-air to avoid the arc of a taser that hasn’t been raised yet. Then she ducks and rolls, causing a baton to go flying over her head and into the face of another man, who reflexively fires his gun, hitting the guard who’d thrown it. Weaponised luck, Grantaire thinks, as Cosette leaps to her feet and sprints out of range of the guards. 

She reaches him, and before she can say anything Grantaire blurts out, “He’s fine. It just clipped his shoulder. He’s okay.”

Her eyes scan the ground around them frantically. “Where is he?” she asks.

Grantaire jerks his head in the direction of the fence. “I’ve put up some shadows. If you walk too far that way you’ll trip over him.”

Cosette swallows and nods. A few tears of relief spill down her cheeks but she wipes them away with brisk hand motions and turns back to the matter at hand.

She seems to see something in the crowd of guards—or maybe she’s just responding to some strange lucky impulse—because she plunges back into the melee without another word, snatching a damaged riot shield up from the ground as she goes. Grantaire follows her with his eyes and spots a guard grabbing Musichetta by the hair. As he watches, Cosette catches him full in the face with the riot shield, sending him crashing to the ground.

Elle and Barre appear at Grantaire’s side.

Grantaire does a double take. “No, wait—Get back in there!”

“Why, so you can protect us?” Elle says scathingly, giving him a visibly unimpressed once-over that Grantaire feels is more than a little unjust, given the circumstances.

“Yes!” Grantaire exclaims. He knows that he doesn’t command much authority, as a person, but getting sneered at by a fourteen year-old is probably a new low.

“That shadow thing isn’t solid,” Barre says. “All it’s doing is protecting them from aimed bullets. They could still get hit by accident. And any of the guards could walk through and pull them out.”

Grantaire shakes his head. “It’s not just a wall. Try and look at it, go ahead. Try and work out where you would have to walk through to get behind it.”

Barre turns towards the space behind them, and frowns.

“Wait—” says Elle, frowning too. “Wait, where is it?”

The night presses in around them, and in the gloom, the edges of the darkness are imperceptible.

 “See?” says Grantaire. “All I need to do is stop anyone from coming this way by accident.”

“That’s fine,” says Elle, shrugging. “But we’re going to help.”

“No—” starts Grantaire, but Elle grips him suddenly by the collar of his t-shirt and pulls him down to her eye level. Grantaire is uncomfortably aware of how close her claws are to his throat.

“They’re our pack,” Elle snarls, and her mouth appears suddenly full of teeth. 

Grantaire looks into her eyes and sees himself and his own family staring straight back. He sighs heavily.

“Fine,” he says. “But stay close.” He detaches her claws carefully from his collar.

That seems to settle it. Elle and Barre stop scowling at him and instead turn to stare unflinchingly at the carnage of the compound.

Grantaire scans the field and makes out his family in flashes.

Enjolras isn’t just the first person Grantaire looks for, he’s the single most visible point in the field—the centre of a hurricane of chaos, a blazing target, melting guns and riot shields and speeding bullets alike.

Feuilly, Bahorel and Eponine are fighting back to back, a ring of guards in satellite around them. As he watches, a stun grenade rolls across the compound towards the three of them. Eponine kicks it away, sending it flying into the air, where it goes off in a blinding flash.

Jehan is difficult to see, he moves so quickly and fluidly through the crowd, but every so often Grantaire catches sight of his long red hair. For a brief moment he becomes visible again, before ducking down below the line of Grantaire’s vision. Two guards in the immediate vicinity fall to the ground and Jehan reappears ten feet away, unharmed.

Musichetta and Cosette are the closest, fighting next to Bossuet and Joly, using appropriated riot shields to give the pair some kind of cover. Joly is shooting a gun from his position on Bossuet’s back but Bossuet seems to be struggling, limping and bent forwards under Joly’s weight. Bossuet is strong and Joly is light, but no one can carry an adult man around for hours during a riot without taking a beating and, Grantaire belatedly remembers, Bossuet had already been injured. As Grantaire watches, Bossuet goes over on his ankle and nearly falls.

“I’ll be right back,” says Grantaire to Elle and Barre, and sprints off into the crowd towards Joly and Bossuet. He reaches them just as the guards overwhelm Cosette and Musichetta—Cosette falls to the ground and Musichetta lunges to pull her up before she gets crushed.

Grantaire grabs Bossuet’s wrist and yanks him roughly out of the fray, towing him with all his strength, enveloping both Joly and Bossuet in shadows to obscure their path. They take a beating nonetheless—Grantaire thinks he’s hit with a statistically unlikely number of batons and fists, given that none of the guards can actually see them. Bossuet, never the most coordinated of humans to begin with, stumbles and trips over shields and fallen bodies, but follows Grantaire with relentless, dogged determination through the darkness, until they’re out on the other side and running, and Grantaire leads them, stumbling, sprinting, straight through his shadow wall to the quiet space beyond.

As soon as he’s through, Bossuet crumbles to his knees. Joly slides off and sits on the cement, and Bossuet falls forwards and drops his face straight into Joly’s lap.

Grantaire bends over and puts his hands on his knees, heaving in breaths, exhausted and beaten. There’s blood dripping into his eyes, and everywhere aches, but his jaw and right hand are throbbing particularly badly.

“Gav?” Joly asks, high and worried, twisting to get a look at where Gavroche is lying flat out on the ground. 

“I’m okay! I’m fine!” Gavroche sits up and shuffles towards Bossuet and Joly. “Are you alright?”

“I think he got hit in the leg,” says Joly, near tears, scrambling at the torn leg of Bossuet’s jeans. "And his ankle was already sprained. Stupid, you shouldn't have been carrying me!"

“I’m fine,” mumbles Bossuet, teeth gritted in pain.

Grantaire looks up and meets Joly’s gaze. "I need to go back out," he says. He feels so tired he could cry.

Joly nods, jittery. "Be safe."

Grantaire turns back through the shadows again and emerges into a different landscape.

A handful of guards have split off from the carnage and are converging on Barre and Elle, but Barre and Elle aren't making the convergence easy on them. While the flock and the guards have for the most part avoided using deadly force on each other—on the flock’s part because they are, at the end of the day, university students, and on the guard’s part, Grantaire imagines, because the flock constitute a financial investment and are not worth as much dead—the razer kids are showing no such compunctions.

Elle snaps the shin bone of one of the guards in a particularly brutal kick and he falls to the ground screaming. Barre claws through the kevlar of another, ripping and shredding the skin underneath. Grantaire joins them, whirling this way and that, combining hand-to-hand combat with his excruciating illusory pain to keep the guards away from his shadowy wall. He tries to keep an eye on the kids, and an eye on his family, but his vision narrows until it’s just him, and the shadowy smoke screen, and the next person trying to cause him grievous bodily harm.

The frenzy builds, and builds, and he misses death by a hair's-breadth five times and then stops counting. He, Barre and Elle are covered in blood, their own and other people's.

He stops seeing the world around him in one continuous stream. Instead, time seems rendered at a lower frame rate, a zoetrope of flickering, flashing images.

Flash.

Grantaire punches a guard in the face, and his fist is bright with pain.

Flash.

Grantaire leaps on top of a guard who’s making a beeline for Elle, and slams his head into the ground.

Flash.

He glances up for long enough to see Enjolras go off like a catherine wheel, and he can't see why, but he can hear Feuilly screaming.

Flash.

They shouldn’t have wasted time getting the data—they’d been overconfident, arrogant. They should have just focused on the priority—getting people out. They shouldn’t have taken it for granted that their powers would give them a winning advantage. So stupid, so stupid, how could he be so stupid? How could he have walked in here tonight feeling hopeful? Everyone he loves is going to die and it's all his fault.

Flash.

A guard has Barre pinned to the ground, a gun pointed straight into his face, and Elle is screaming, and Grantaire is wrestling with a heavy, thick-set man who drives his knee heavily into Grantaire's stomach, making him wretch, and he can't get to Barre, and he can’t get a breath and the pain won’t come any more, no matter how desperately he reaches for it. He claws wildly at the man's face, fingers catching on the his ugly, grimacing mouth, and Elle is screaming so loud and so high and he can't get to them—

Flash.

A shape tears towards them out of the night, and Grantaire has a split second in which his eyes tell him: another guard! And his brain tells him: not a guard, just someone without wings.

And then Montparnasse is there. Montparnasse, face twisted into something dark and furious, rips into the guard attacking Barre with a violence that detaches the man’s arm from his body. The guard’s resulting scream is shrill and quickly cut off.

The shock of relief and confusion that goes through Grantaire is enough to spur him into action. He drags his fingers up the man's face and digs his nails into his eyes.

The guard shouts and loosens his grip, and Grantaire knees him in his face—which hurts—and grapples his gun from him before shooting him in the thigh. The man screams and goes down, and Grantaire rolls over onto the hard ground, winded and panting for breath.

Montparnasse appears above him, silhouetted against the nebulous, cloudy sky. His expression is grim, and steely. Grantaire thinks for one calm, clear second that this might be it: Montparnasse might truly kill him now.

Instead, he holds out his hand, and yanks Grantaire roughly to his feet.

“Well, this is a clusterfuck,” Montparnasse observes.

“You think so?” asks Grantaire politely. There’s blood trickling into his mouth, and it makes everything taste faintly metallic. He’d kill for a glass of water—is that a strange thing to think, right now? Probably.

“Watch out,” says Montparnasse.

Grantaire ducks, and Montparnasse fires a gun over his head. Behind them, there’s the sound of someone falling heavily to the ground.

“What are you doing here?” Grantaire asks, utterly baffled, feeling stupid and slow with exhaustion.

Montparnasse ignores him, turning instead to Barre and Elle. “You two alright?” he asks, eyes flicking between them, mouth thin.

Barre nods, but his face crumples. Elle launches herself at Montparnasse in a hug which rocks him back on his heels. After a split second Barre joins her. Montparnasse grimaces, arms held awkwardly at his sides.

“You came back,” Elle mumbles indistinctly. “He said you were in Paris.”

“Don’t be fucking ridiculous,” scowls Montparnasse. “Come on, no time for getting snotty. Move. Where are the others?”

Elle takes Montparnasse’s arm and drags him behind the shadowy screen that Grantaire is holding together by the skin of his teeth. Grantaire and Barre follow.

Cara is standing closest to the wall, and when they come through she lunges towards them, only stopping short when she sees who they are.

“Parnasse?” she asks, eyes huge.

The twins run forwards, looking delighted. “Parnasse!” 

For a moment it looks like there’s going to be another hugging moment.

“Absolutely not,” says Montparnasse, putting his hands on their heads as if to keep them away from him. He ruins the pretence at the last minute by ruffling their hair briskly.

“How the fuck did you get in?” Grantaire asks. It occurs to him at that moment that he might be knocked unconscious and dreaming. Hell, he might be dead.

“There’s a storm drain,” Montparnasse says. Cara and the twins huddle close to him, as if seeking warmth. “This side of the compound, against the wall of the Institute.”

“You couldn’t have told us that before?” demands Grantaire angrily. His family are waging a battle outside, some of them might even be dead, all because Montparnasse wanted to keep the element of surprise? “I told you I’d get the kids out, Montparnasse.”

“And I told you, your word means shit to me,” snaps back Montparnasse, and for a moment the murderous intent returns to his gaze.

“You always planned on coming back yourself,” says Grantaire, the realisation dawning on him almost as the words are leaving his mouth. “Why didn’t you just tell me?”

“I don’t trust you,” says Montparnasse. “And I was right not to. Look at the state of them.” He brandishes his hand at Barre and Elle, who, Grantaire is not thrilled to see, do appear to be significantly bloodied.

“They wouldn’t stay in here!” Grantaire hisses. “I tried!”

“You’re a fucking adult, Grantaire,” says Montparnasse with icy chill. “They’re thirteen. Take some responsibility.”

“I would never have let anyone stop me from protecting my family,” says Grantaire shortly. “I’m sorry I couldn’t keep them safer. But they made it clear it wasn’t up for discussion. And it would have been easier for me to keep them safe if I’d known there was another way out.”

“I didn’t know there was another way out,” mutters Montparnasse, rolling his eyes and turning away. “I would have told you if I had.”

“Doth mine ears deceive me?” calls Gavroche from where he’s sitting propped against Bossuet’s prone body. “A way out? Do tell!”

“Apparently there’s a storm drain,” says Grantaire, moving over to where Joly, Bossuet and Gavroche are congregated. “I’m going to try and move the shadows over it. Are you guys able to move?”

Joly squints up at him from where he’s seated on the ground and says, “That feels a little insensitive, at the present juncture.”

Grantaire snorts. “Sorry, Joly.”

“I was talking about Bossuet!” Joly grins, and from where he’s lying face down on the ground, Bossuet barks out a laugh.

Gavroche holds out his hand and wiggles it, and Grantaire obligingly pulls him to his feet. Gavroche helps Bossuet up, and Bossuet leans heavily on Gavroche’s good shoulder, keeping his weight off his ankle. Grantaire bends down to give Joly a hand and between the two of them they manage to get him situated on Grantaire’s back. When Joly is sitting reasonably comfortably, they start to move off in a strange, hobbling formation.

Grantaire had already felt like he was devoting an entire hemisphere of his brain to keeping the shadowy shield in place, but moving it now is excruciatingly hard. The mental effort required to lift Joly, move the shadows, and think about where he’s putting his feet is immense. Before they’ve gone more than a few metres, Grantaire is sweating and shivery, like he’s caught in a high fever.

Joly doesn’t say anything, but he squeezes Grantaire’s arm comfortingly.

Montparnasse prowls the edges of the shield, clearly worried about the possibility of them stumbling across somebody by accident.

Grantaire’s mind becomes a brutal refrain of one step more, one step more, one step more. Finally, after what might be the most arduous five minutes of Grantaire’s life, the shadows slip over the shape of an open storm drain, about a metre wide and a little longer in length. Grantaire feels simultaneously like he could cry from relief and like that would be a waste of valuable (and much needed) hydration.

“That’s where we came in,” Montparnasse says, and turns on the kids. “Right, get in there and start running. I’ll be right behind you. Pan, Fin, you first.”

The twins go without a question, followed by Cara and Barre. Elle shoots a glance at Grantaire, who tries to smile at her encouragingly, then scurries down the ladder.

Montparnasse turns to face Grantaire, his face completely neutral. Grantaire can only imagine what he looks like—he certainly feels like shit.

“Thanks for the help,” says Grantaire.

Montparnasse sneers. “I’m not helping you. I’m looking after my own.”

Grantaire nods, smiling wryly. “No, I get that. But thanks anyway.”

Montparnasse rolls his eyes, then swings down into the storm drain and out of sight.

Grantaire turns to Gavroche, Joly and Bossuet. “I think you should get down there and start making your way along. I don’t know where it comes out but it’s gotta be better than this. I’ll get the others out and send them down.”

Joly and Bossuet look a little like they want to argue, but something about Grantaire’s expression—or his new resting tremor—must convince them otherwise. 

Gavroche, on the other hand, has never been one to read a room. “I’m coming back out with you,” he says stubbornly, as if this is fucking debate class.

“You just got shot,” Grantaire snaps, truly and sincerely at the end of his tether.

“You just said that nothing would have stopped you from protecting our family when you were younger,” says Gavroche, a very specific little-brother whine entering the pitch of his voice. 

“Get the fuck in that hole Gavroche, or so help me God I will put you in it,” Grantaire snarls, losing his temper.

It’s a little less graceful than the razers’ exit. Gavroche goes first, mulishly, Bossuet hobbles afterwards, and Grantaire helps Joly lower himself after them.

Once they’re down, Grantaire takes a moment to scrub his hands over his eyes, then he shrinks the screen of darkness down to a ring around the storm drain, and steps back out into the compound.

And finds himself face to barrel with the end of a gun.

A guard is standing in front of him, looking as surprised as Grantaire feels. His expression of shock quickly contorts into one of contempt and loathing. Grantaire thinks it’s probably understandable—if he’d been an evil guard in a private army, employed to just sit around and hang out in the break room while other people experimented on children, he’s sure he wouldn’t have much enjoyed a middle-of-the-night insurrection taking place. Also, there’s always the possibility that this is one of the guards who took the brunt of Grantaire’s pain-giving powers earlier.

On the other hand, for all that his villain origin story is probably quite credible, Grantaire isn’t much interested in sticking around and finding out if the guard’s animosity will tempt him into forgoing the Institute’s up-till-now violent but ultimately non-lethal containment strategies. He pulls at his shadows, aiming to shroud himself in his own strange unseeable-ness, an action that comes almost as naturally to him as breathing.

And nothing happens.

There’s nothing left. Nothing but the thin veil of shade that obscures the storm drain, and Grantaire can’t give that up. He tries again, and the guard’s eyes still don’t leave Grantaire’s face, don’t grow vague or lose their focus. In fact, they flick over Grantaire, assessing, and Grantaire knows the guard is noting the lack of Institute clothing, the evidence that Grantaire, at least, isn’t Institute property. Plausible deniability.

Grantaire keeps trying, but he’s exhausted. Neither his shadows nor his invisible pain are responding to his will any more. He’s got nothing.

The guard adjusts his grip on the gun, in the way people do when they’re about to fire, and don’t want to break their thumb on the recoil.

Grantaire experiences a singular moment of sinking dread. Oh shit, he thinks. I’m going to fucking die.

He hears the deafening crack of a gun.

His whole body goes rigid, every muscle in his body seizing with fear, nails biting into his fists, eyes tight shut.

And then he hears a voice shout, “Don’t touch my fucking kid! Asshole!”

Grantaire’s eyes fly open and he realises three things in quick succession. Firstly, he’s still standing, which would imply he’s not been shot. Secondly, there’s a guard lying on the ground in front of him, bleeding copiously. Thirdly, Javert is standing two feet away from him, looking murderous.

“Dad—” Grantaire blurts out, voice cracking, lunging forwards. Javert catches him in a bruising, word-stabilising hug. He buries his face in Javert’s leather jacket, the familiar smell of it, and fights the temptation to start crying and never stop.

They pull away after a moment and Javert looks more than a little red around the eyes too.

“What—How—” Grantaire’s mind is spinning. It catches on something Montparnasse had said about the storm drain, that he hadn’t had time to question at the time: that’s where we came in. “Weren’t you in jail?”

“We got out this morning,” says Javert, speaking quickly, eyes scanning over the compound, ensuring that no other guards are in their immediate vicinity. 

“Between Marius’s grandfather and Jean’s contacts…well, it started to become very obvious that somebody else was pulling strings to keep us out of the way, the judge had to relent on bail. So we get out, we get home, and what do we find? All of our children appear to have been abducted. But no, Marius’s grandfather assures us that you and Enjolras, at least, had been staying in his house in Greenwich, but that you’d gone up to Scotland with Marius last night. Fantastic, that bodes well. No note! Nobody is answering their phones! We get a jet chartered to take us up north but as we’re leaving the house a fucking werewolf turns up and asks for a ride, tells us that you and Enjolras have come up with the most poorly thought out escape attempt since that opening scene in Chicken Run—don’t look at me like that, how often did I have to watch that fucking movie with you brats? Every single Christmas. Anyway, I have contacts in the MoD, so we managed to get accurate blueprints and plan a way in, but it requires that we trail through the sewers in the middle of the night, in Scotland. Then we arrive here and find our children in the middle of an armed fucking conflict. So to answer your question, yes I was in jail, and yes I wish I’d stayed there!” 

Javert looks more than a little unhinged by the time he’s finished his spiel. And also like he needs to sleep for a week, which, Grantaire sympathises.

He opens his mouth to offer some kind of excuse, then closes it again.

“Not to worry,” says Javert, with cheery menace, clapping Grantaire on the shoulder. “No need for apologies. You’re grounded forever.”

Grantaire thinks that’s probably really fair, actually.

“Here’s the plan,” says Javert, and Grantaire feels the weight of the last three days slide heavily off his shoulders. There’s something very comforting about somebody else being in charge right now—not just somebody else, his dad. “All we have to do is get word to the others about the storm drain. Jean is already in there. Once everyone’s out, we pull the storm drain shut, seal it off, and get back to the airport. Marius is waiting for us. Okay?”

Grantaire nods. “Okay.”

Javert nods back, and clasps Grantaire’s neck, knocking their foreheads together. “Be safe, alright? I’m not losing any kids tonight.”

Grantaire believes him.

Javert plunges into the crowd of fighting, and not a second later Jehan emerges out of it. He’s spitting blood and clutching his side.

“Grantaire?” he calls out, staggering uncharacteristically.

Grantaire moves forwards and catches him before he can fall.

“I’m here.”

“Did I hear Javert?” Jehan asks. He’s got tears in his eyes.

“Yeah, they’re here. Him and Valjean. They got up through the storm drain. Sweets, Gav and Joly are already down there. I’ve shielded it off with my thing. It’s in the left hand side corner of the compound if you’re facing the building, next to the building and the fence.” He turns Jehan around until they’re facing it. “About fifty paces away.”


 


Jehan closes his eyes in concentration. “Okay. I think I can feel your shadows.’

“Go and join them, I’ll get word to the others.”

Jehan turns his face back towards the fighting, looking reluctant. “The others—”

“We’ll get them,” Grantaire assures him.

Jehan frowns and says, “I think Feuilly’s hurt.”

Grantaire’s heart sinks but he says again, “We’ll get them, I promise. But we need to get out of here.”

“Okay,” says Jehan hesitantly, and takes off running towards the storm drain.

Grantaire turns towards the fighting and plunges in.

&

Up till now, Grantaire has been somewhat removed from the carnage, fighting at the edges and standing guard over his shadowy shield. Now he’s inside the melee, and it’s a fucking horror show.

The air is thick with tear gas and smoke, and the ground is scattered with detritus—namely broken riot shields and prone bodies.

He nearly trips over Cosette and Musichetta, crouched on the ground. Cosette is trying to stem a furious outpouring of blood from a wound on Musichetta’s forehead.

Grantaire crouches down beside them, and Musichetta seizes his arm.

“Joly and Bossuet?” she asks frantically. “Have you seen them?”

“They’re fine. They’re with Gav in the storm drain, they got out.”

“Valjean told us about it,” Cosette says. “The drain.” Her lip is split and swollen.

“Try and get over there,” Grantaire tells her. “It’s behind the shadows but you know what they look like, right?”

“Like you on a bad hair day?” Musichetta offers with grim humour.

Grantaire grins. “Right. I’m going to get the others. I’ll give you cover.”

They nod, and Grantaire scrabbles a gun off the ground, and loads it. He stands up suddenly, and fires into the guards nearest to them, drawing their attention. Behind him, Cosette and Musichetta take off at a run.

Grantaire dodges out of the path of the guards, and plunges further into the crowd.

He comes across Courfeyrac, Combeferre and Eponine suddenly. Courfeyrac spins around and, responding to the presence of a person nearly on top of him, and without seeming to recognise it as Grantaire, shouts, “Stop!”

Grantaire comes to a complete halt, like a puppet whose strings have been cut. It feels like his free will goes momentarily offline.

Within an instant, Courfeyrac’s eyes go wide, and Grantaire moves again.

“Holy shit,” says Grantaire.

“Shit, Taire, sorry.” Courfeyrac looks jumpy and wretched. His left hand is mangled and bleeding and his right hand is towing Combeferre. Combeferre has lost his glasses and his shirt looks scorched. Eponine has her arms wrapped around her side protectively.

“Could you always do that?” Grantaire asks shrilly, feeling unglued.

“Later,” says Combeferre, briskly. “Are you alright?”

“I’m fine. You guys?”

“Cracked ribs, probably,” says Eponine. “Otherwise fine, broadly speaking. Still alive. Gav’s alright?”

“He’s fine, it just grazed him.”

“We saw Valjean,” says Combeferre. “The storm drain?”

“Just keep going, it’s on the western side of the compound, next to the building. It’s behind my shadows—” Grantaire can feel it tugging at him from across the compound, a constant drain on his focus and energy. “—So you won’t see it until you’re right up on it. But if you head towards that corner, you’ll get there, okay?”

They nod.

“Have you seen the others?” Grantaire asks.

They exchange a look. “Valjean and Javert were right behind us,” says Courfeyrac. “They’re trying to get Bahorel out. They told us to go ahead. But I haven’t seen Enjolras or Feuilly. Or Bossuet and Joly.”

“Bossuet and Joly got out,” says Grantaire. “Where—” he breaks off as a guard swings a baton towards them, the arc veering wildly towards Combeferre’s head. Combeferre ducks, arms over his head.

Courfeyrac whirls round and screams, “DROP IT!”

The guard’s hand, unbelievably, spasms. The baton drops to the ground. The guard stares at Courfeyrac, abject terror in his expression.

Grantaire shoots the guard in the chest, causing him to careen backwards to the ground. He’s so done with this fucking night. 

He turns back to the others. “Fuck it, just get going!”

He dodges around them and further into the fray, using his body as a battering ram to plunge between guards and riot shields.

He’s not gone far before he sees Valjean and Bahorel, some fifteen paces away.

Bahorel is beaten bloody, unconscious, and his dead weight is draped across Valjean’s shoulder. One of his big red-kite wings is sprawled down the length of Valjean’s back, his primary feathers dragging along the cement. Their combined body mass and inability to fight are making them a huge target, and guards are gathering around them like flies.

Grantaire, his heart leaping with fear, moves to jump towards them—but then Javert steps forwards wielding what appears to be a semi-automatic machine gun and the guards scatter under it’s scythe-like swing.

Grantaire approaches them, taking care to give the machine gun a wide berth.

Bahorel’s lifeless face sparks terror in him. “Is he alright?” Grantaire asks urgently, reaching up to touch his bloody, beaten face.

Valjean and Javert start and spin round to face him, Javert swinging the gun towards him and then away again in the same movement. 

“Jesus Christ, Taire!” he snaps.

Grantaire goes to raise his hands in quick surrender, an apology for startling them, but he spots an approaching guard over Javert’s shoulder as he does, and makes a quick detour to his gun, shooting the guard before he can get any nearer.

He turns back to Javert and Valjean. “Is he alright?”

“He’s breathing,” says Javert, his mouth a furious curl of worry.

“He’ll be alright,” says Valjean with a warm, authoritative assurance that immediately injects some calm into Grantaire’s trembling resolve. “Are you getting out?”

“I need to find Enjolras and Feuilly,” says Grantaire.

Valjean and Javert exchange an alarmed glance.

“You haven’t seen them?” Javert asks, and fires off a few more rounds of his gun over Grantaire’s shoulder. Grantaire is well past the point of flinching.

“No,” says Grantaire, dread pooling in his gut. “Not for a while. But I’ll find them. They have to be here somewhere. I’ll meet you at the drain.”

Javert stares at him for a moment, then his jaw hardens. “Alright. But do it quickly or I’ll come back in for you.”

Grantaire grins faintly. Javert always did have a way of making comforting reassurances sound like threats.

They move off in opposite directions: Javert and Valjean towards the storm drain; Grantaire away from it.

He moves quickly, and some of his powers must still be hanging around because he dodges glances more easily than he should, and slips between guards without attracting attention. His control is gone, and his power over solid darkness is limited to the small ring around the storm drain, but he’s kept the power he always had—the one that meant he never got called on to answer a question in school. He’s unnoticeable, and right now it’s all that’s keeping him alive.

The first thing that catches Grantaire’s attention is the descending quiet. After so much gunfire and screaming, stun grenades that echo in his teeth, it’s the silence that startles him. It takes a few more moments for Grantaire to realise that the remaining guards are congregating around a fixed point, away from him.

He fights his way through them, using his elbows and fingernails and feet, climbing and punching, moving too quickly to attract any retribution. 

He stumbles to the front, where an empty space has been cleared, and in the centre stands Enjolras.

Enjolras is swaying gently from side to side. He’s covered in blood and dirt—his red t-shirt crusted, his curls matted, his bright, golden wings dark with it. A faint, shining wall of light glows in the air in front of him, nearly transparent—like a dusty sunbeam through a quiet room. Behind him, Feuilly is stretched out on the ground in a pool of blood that soaks the ground and behind Feuilly are the doors to the Institute. There’s no retreat, and Enjolras has clearly chosen this spot to hold his ground. Or die.

Grantaire can barely stand up any more, can barely think, can barely muster fear. All that’s left is Enjolras, standing tall and alone, surrounded by guns and silence.

Grantaire goes to him.

No one fires on him, and when he reaches Enjolras, Enjolras turns and tries to smile. “Hello,” he says.

“Hi,” Grantaire says, and smiles back. There’s no way Javert will make it back to them, not with the combined forces of the Institute between them. Grantaire doesn’t mention it; Enjolras knows. Instead, he says, “The others got out.”

Enjolras nods, blinking hard, and laughs shakily. “Good, that’s good.”

“Feuilly?”

Enjolras’s lower lips wobbles, and he glances back towards the figure on the ground behind them. “I don’t know,” he says softly.

“Surrender!” calls one of the guards. “This has gone far enough! Stop resisting arrest. No one needs to die.”

Enjolras reaches out and takes Grantaire’s hand.

With his other hand, he raises his gun. Grantaire mirrors him—he thinks he might have three, maybe four bullets left. Not enough to stop an army. Just enough to go down fighting.

“You have no authority to arrest me,” Enjolras says, and his voice rings out across the compound, clear as a tolling bell. His eyes blaze. “And I do not consent to being unlawfully imprisoned.”

All Grantaire’s fire is gone, but Enjolras is made of fire—he’ll never go quietly, the concept is antithetical to his soul.

A gun bangs, and Grantaire feels Enjolras brace himself, and the bullets melt down the shimmering golden wall.

One of the guards goes to step towards them and Enjolras fires at him. The bullet passes through the light easily but goes wide of it’s mark, hitting the ground.

Grantaire sees the barrier waver, ever so slightly.

“Give up!” shouts another guard. “Do you want to die? We’ll kill you!”

“Go ahead,” says Enjolras. His voice isn’t loud, but the words carry.

“What about you?” the guard shouts at Grantaire. “You want to die too?”

Grantaire laughs. The idea of being asked so politely tickles him, somehow. “Well, you might as well kill two birds with one stone,” he says.

He glances at Enjolras from the corner of his eye, fully expecting to see Enjolras looking pained at having his last moments on God’s green earth marred with a pun—worse, a pun that isn’t even good. But Enjolras is smiling at him, warm and sweet.

Oh, Grantaire loves him. Is love supposed to be like this? Is it supposed to feel as if all the stars in the sky live inside Grantaire’s heart?

They don’t look away from each other, even as gunfire starts to tear through the night again, flashing as the bullets hit the barrier and melt. They don’t look away even though they know—Grantaire can see, in the exhausted lines around Enjolras’s eyes, in the flickering of the golden shield in front of them, that at any moment it will fall, and them with it.

There’s a crash, and the night fills with the now-familiar burst of a stun grenade, and there’s screaming and the barricade falls.

The guards are in disarray, smoke from tear gas rising from their midst, and a shape appears beside Grantaire and Enjolras, dark in the shadow of the Institute, snarling furiously, “Move, fucking move! Stop sitting pretty waiting to die you useless, useless fucking bastards. Jesus Christ, I fucking hate you.”

Montparnasse slings Feuilly over his shoulder like he’s a bag of feathers.

Grantaire gapes at him, sure that this time, he’s dead and dreaming. “What—” is all he manages to get out. 

Montparnasse looks like he’s very seriously considering ripping Grantaire’s face off with his teeth. “Elle wouldn’t stop pouting,” he says, and the words are more growl than voice. “Fucking brat.”

The guards are starting to re-align, and the cold, distant pit in Grantaire’s stomach informs him that there will be no stopping these bullets, not this time.

Montparnasse’s gaze sweeps over the compound, assessing, and he growls deep in his throat. Then he mutters, “Fuck it.”

He tilts back his head and lets loose a howl the likes of which Grantaire has never heard before. He and Enjolras throw their hands over their ears, as do many of the nearest guards. It’s an eerie, wavering noise that raises all the hairs on the back of Grantaire’s arms, and it goes on for a long frozen moment.

Grantaire hears the door behind them open.

He’d noticed increasingly as the night had worn on that the adult razers had mostly disappeared—he had even spared a moment to be thankful that they hadn’t had to contend with teeth and claws in addition to batons, stun grenades, tear gas, riot shields, and guns. He hadn’t given much thought as to why—if it had occurred to him to wonder, he might have assumed that they had been ordered back into the building to protect the rest of the Institute staff.

But now here they come, eleven adult razers, bristling in the night air. Tall, with long unsheathed claws and mouths of fangs, and Grantaire recognises every one of them from his childhood. These were the razers he had played, argued, fought and bantered with, before Enjolras had arrived and eclipsed his entire consciousness. These were the razers he’d left behind.

“Came back, did you?” one asks Montparnasse with a sneer. Sud, Grantaire remembers. They’d called him Sud. Like a soap sud, because he was never clean. 

“Didn’t have to,” says Montparnasse, with a shrug. “This whole enterprise is about to go down like a house of cards. No one was gonna be pulling me back in, one way or another.”

“So why are you back then?” asks a small, thin razer who Grantaire remembers being called Push. 

“He came back for the babies,” jeers Sud, glancing at the other razers with a barking laugh. “Little bitch.”

Montparnasse snarls low in his throat—it sounds like a throttling car engine. 

“So what if he did,” says another razer—Boo, the one Bahorel had brawled with in the stairwell. “They’re fucking kids, Sud. It’s sick.”

“It’s nothing they didn’t do to us,” snarls Sud.

“And so what?” barks another razer—a woman who Grantaire remembers as an eight year old with short, buzz-cut hair. Had she been called Lacey? “That make it okay?”

“I’m not here to discuss you cretins’ lack of moral fucking fibre,” says Montparnasse, rolling his eyes. “I could not give less of a shit. I’m here to tell you that if you want revenge, it’s now or never. The whole world found out about this little freak show tonight, and they’re gonna be on top of these assholes any minute now.” 

Sud raises an eyebrow, reluctantly intrigued.

A rustle goes through the guards behind them.

“Go back inside!” one of the guards shouts. “Stay out of the way!” Then, in a voice he clearly doesn’t think will carry, he says, “Where’s that fucking whistle?”

Sud looks at Montparnasse and bares his teeth in a grin. Then he throws back his head and howls, long and loud, and after a half second the others join him.

The guards start to fire on them, but too late. The razers spring forwards, colliding with the front line of guards—too slow to raise their riot shields, backpedalling uselessly to try and get away.

Montparnasse quirks his eyebrow at Grantaire. “Well, aren’t we all glad that that worked out?” he says sardonically.

“What were the chances of it not working out?” Grantaire asks. He’s fairly certain he doesn’t really want to know the answer. 

Montparnasse, still carrying Feuilly as if he weighs nothing, leads them off along the wall of the Institute towards the storm drain. Grantaire holds tight to Enjolras’s hand, and keeps a close eye on any nearby guards—although it’s not really necessary; they’re very much otherwise occupied. A detached human hand falls to the ground near them, and Grantaire decides to ignore it for the rest of his life.

Montparnasse shrugs. “It was about fifty-fifty whether they’d do that or just eat you. Difficult bunch to predict, that lot.”

“Will they be alright?” asks Enjolras.

Montparnasse shoots him a darkly amused glance. “The guards? No, probably not.”

“No,” starts Enjolras doggedly. “The—”

“They’ll be fine,” says Montparnasse dismissively. “They were always capable of getting out. They could tear the fucking walls down with their bare hands. It just never occurred to them. Funny, how these things never do.”

They stumble in that moment upon the last barricade standing—Grantaire’s little ring of shadows, protecting their hard-won exit.

They scramble down the ladder into the gloom of the drain below, and Montparnasse closes the heavy metal covering, and Enjolras seals it shut with one last glowing burst of light.

&

The process of getting back to the Pontmercy house is a dizzying blur to Grantaire. They emerge from the sewers coated in mud and filth, a mile away from the Institute, and stumble the last half mile to where the two Jeeps are parked. Even with the spacious seats and footwells, it’s a crush. They lie Bahorel and Feuilly down in the boots.

The road to the Pontmercy house is long and bumpy, and every hole in the road makes Grantaire wince and seize with pain. He leans against Enjolras and lets himself fade in and out of consciousness, happy for Valjean and Javert to look after things for a while. When they finally arrive at the house, the sky is lightening with the rising sun, and Marius is waiting for them.

Eponine and Cosette scramble out the jeep towards him and Marius bursts into tears (his wet face and red eyes indicating that he’s done more than his share of weeping already tonight). The first thing he says, though, is, “I got the data, Ponine. It’s out, it’s all out. I alerted the police, all the big media groups. They’re already running it on the 24 hour BBC channel. They’re saying that military police have been called to the scene.”

Eponine ignores him, electing instead to half-collapse on top of him in the form of a hug, covering him head to toe in blood and sewer water. Cosette joins a moment later.

Myriel emerges from behind Marius, looking old and tired and unshaven, and checks in with them all individually at a rapid speed. His checks range from squeezing Grantaire’s arm comfortingly when Grantaire sleepily mumbles, “‘M fine” from Enjolras’s shoulder, to doing a series of extensive tests on Bahorel and Feuilly—who are now conscious, if deeply unhappy about. Then, between Myriel, Javert, Valjean and Marius, there’s some reorganisation and reshuffling of the cars.

The first jeep, with Javert at the wheel, has Elle in the front passenger seat with Cara on her knee, Jehan, Grantaire and Enjolras in the back seats, and Montparnasse and Barre in the boot. Valjean’s car contains Bossuet, Joly, Musichetta, Gavroche, and—because they seem to have imprinted on Gavroche like little sharp-toothed ducklings—Fin and Pan, the twins. The third car, driven by Marius (and God help them, Grantaire privately thinks), has Eponine in the passenger seat, uploading the rest of her hard-won hard drive of data onto the server. In the back seats are Combeferre, Cosette and Myriel, and Bahorel and Feuilly are laid out in the boot, so that Cosette and Myriel can get access to them.

The addition of another car means that, while still cramped, everyone at least has somewhere to sit. They move in convoy back down the windy rural road to Inverness, and Grantaire remembers very little of it, his face pressed into the soft curve where Enjolras’s t-shirt meets his neck. Enjolras is fully unconscious, his head resting atop Grantaire’s.

He wakes again when they reach Inverness Airport, and it feels like his limbs are lined with lead when he stumbles out of the car after Enjolras and up the steps of the plane—Enjolras towing him doggedly by the hand like he’s forgotten Grantaire is attached to it.

Grantaire has never flown in a private jet before—never flown in a plane at all, except for the one that had brought them from the States to the UK, ten years ago, for the duration of which he’d been in a medically induced sleep. He thinks it would have been nice to pay attention this time, maybe eat a little bag of peanuts, just to say he’s done it. Unfortunately he’s out cold as soon as his head hits the window.

He wakes with the morning daylight pouring over his face.

Enjolras is asleep beside him, slumped against Grantaire’s shoulder. The rest of the plane is quiet but for the hum of the engines.

Outside the window, London emerges, rising into view like the sun.

The Thames glints, and the towering silver buildings stretch up towards them, and the sky is a perfect, endless powder blue in the early morning light.

A few warm tears slide down Grantaire’s face.

Enjolras stirs against Grantaire’s shoulder, waking. He presses a kiss to Grantaire’s cheek, where a tear is still drying. “Welcome home,” he says quietly.

And Grantaire smiles.

If you enjoyed (or even if you're just still here lmao) I'd love if you left a little comment! :D I'm at starkey.tumblr.com <3 






~

The majority of the triggers in this chapter relate to violence but there's no major character death in this fic! Also, nobody sustains any major long-term injuries as a result of the violence.

General trigger warnings:
- Child imprisonment and experimentation - the flock are back in the Institute, and there are other children here now. Oblique reference is made to their situation, but nothing on a level with what the flock went through in chapter 1. 
- Violence - this chapter involves a long, extended fight sequence with many of the features of a riot (i.e. riot shields, batons, stun grenades, tear gas, and guns). The scene is marked but unfortunately it's a very long scene, so it's not really possibly to give specific pre-warning to each individual occurence of potentially triggering violence. I've listed them below in chronological order, which will hopefully help if this is an issue for anyone. As before, if you're experiencing any issue with accessibility due to lack of adequate triggers in this fic, please let me know! 

Section 1: specific trigger warnings (detailed with spoilers):
- Phillips attempts to shoot Enjolras. Grantaire uses his shadows to cause Phillips pain and then kills him with a gun. 
- The bulk of the fighting scene involves the main characters and children from the new institute trying to escape from the compound and being prevented from doing so by a group of guards, who use batons, stun grenades, tear gas, physical assault and (less commonly) guns to do so. The main characters fight back, also using some of these weapons. 
- Grantaire uses both guns and his power over pain to hurt/incapacitate guards 
- Gavroche is shot in the arm while trying to protect children from the new institute 
- Multiple guards suffer extreme injuries/are killed as a result of actions carried out by minor characters. 
- Two of the oldest children (13 year olds) from the new institute insist on helping fight. Both sustain minor injuries but no specific or detailed ones. At one point a guard points a gun at one of the children, but is prevented from hurting them
- Both Bahorel and Feuilly are knocked unconscious and suffer more significant injuries than the others

- I can't believe it's finally over!! jesus the EUPHORIA of yeeting this albatros, I cannot express...- Thanks as always to fiver!! we've been over this but you're the best- Thanks to blazeofmemory and shitpostingfromthebarricade for sensitivity reading!- Thanks to every single one of you who've stuck around all this time and been so wonderful and supportive and left such amazing comments! :') Thank you so so so so much! I would not have done this without you, genuinely.- There are no trigger warnings or content warnings for this chapter. I promised y'all a happy ending and here it is!- Playlist for this chapter <3


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


“That was Richard Boleslawski there, reporting from London.”

“Breaking news still coming in now following the astonishing leak of eleven thousand confidential documents detailing the activities of biotechnology firm ‘the Waterloo Institute’, a relatively unknown subsidiary of Guernsey Pharmaceuticals International. The documents detail what many are now calling the Icarus Experiments, due to the controversial claims that the company performed human-avian DNA splicing on unborn children, and even succeeded in creating children with wings.

“Now, we have Albert Lacroix here—these papers were initially obtained by yourselves at The Guardian, and have subsequently been shared with the international consortium of investigative journalists in the UK. Tell us—is there any possibility that this is just an extremely well-coordinated prank?”

“Well, it’s incredible John, really. We’re still working through all the data that’s been compiled, and I’m sure more information will follow in the coming weeks and months as the results of the inquiry become known. What we know for certain is that the Waterloo Institute has previously been based in the United States, and we know that they have a centre for clinical research here in the UK, in a repurposed Ministry of Defense site near Ullapool. We know that military police became involved in that area when the leaks went live four nights ago, and that there’s a full inquiry going on now surrounding that. We know that in the past few days, many individuals linked to this scandal have been taken into custody. We also know that the Waterloo Institute appears to have connections to not just Guernsey Pharmaceuticals, but also several other big pharma groups internationally. These companies have thus far declined to give any comment, although they are seeing a subsequent drop in stock prices.

“But apart from that, it is very difficult to say. Some of the information we’re seeing coming out in relation to the alleged victims of human trafficking in London and Paris certainly seems to tie into known missing persons cases. The leaked documents, of course, have alleged that many of these women are now deceased as a result of their involvement in these experiments. We’re hearing that the British and French governments have been in contact with the families of the victims who have been named, and are keeping them informed about the results of the inquiry as it unfolds.”

“A very difficult time for those families, I’d imagine.”

“Yes, absolutely.”

“And what about the rest of the information leaked?”

“Well that’s where everything gets a bit more uncertain. There are these allegations of…assassinations, really, being carried out on UK soil by prisoners—child soldiers, in effect—as part of a private military training program. And obviously that, if it was true, that would be a scandal of proportions never seen before in the UK. And that’s—that’s not even getting into the topic of the Icarus Experiments themselves. Clearly, if even a fraction of the information in these documents is correct, the British government has allowed some of the most significant human rights violations in modern history to go unchecked for more than a decade…That’s a huge scandal for the current government, and—we’re hearing talk of this already—likely grounds for a motion of no confidence. It’s also likely to have a knock-on effect for governments around the world, as their connections to firms like Guernsey International come under scrutiny.”

“And the—uh—other claims, made by the Icarus Experiment leaks?”

“Yes, of course. The thing we’re all struggling to come to terms with this week: the idea that…if these allegations are true in their entirety, then there are at least thirteen people out there in the world, living among us, with wings. And that. I think that, if that is true—and it feels incredible to be having this conversation—but if that is true, then that is the real groundbreaking, world-changing news this week.”

“And is there really any possibility of that being true? I mean, it seems like something out of science fiction.”

“That’s the thing, you know. These documents—we haven’t actually found anything to suggest that they’re falsified. So, while everything about this leak is still very uncertain, not to mention absolutely unprecedented on many levels, there is absolutely no evidence yet to suggest that they’re verifiably untrue.”

“Incredible revelations coming to light every day, with this story. Thank you very much.

That was Albert Lacroix there, reporting from London. Next, Amnesty International calls for a review into ties between private contractors and the British military following the Icarus Experiment leaks, and subsequent allegations of extensive human trafficking networks and illegal child experimentation.”

&

One morning, a week after the news breaks, Grantaire wakes up at six o’clock and can’t get back to sleep. Enjolras is on his side, cocooned in the duvet, his fingers curled loosely at his cheek. He looks soft and sweet and so beautiful that it gives Grantaire heartburn.

After a while Grantaire decides that he can’t reasonably stare at Enjolras all morning. He extracts himself from the bedsheets with great reluctance, throws on a jumper, and heads downstairs.

It’s shockingly still in the house—even as a teenager, Grantaire was almost never up before everyone else, and he’s used to the walls reverberating with the noise of conversation and bickering. He pads down the wooden floored hallway and into the brightly lit kitchen, and finds Valjean and Javert sitting at the table, quietly drinking coffee.

They’d heard from the lawyers—unofficially—yesterday. For reasons not clear to anyone on the legal team—but vividly clear to everyone else involved—the prosecution had very suddenly dropped their case against Valjean, Javert and Myriel, citing ‘insufficient evidence’. Javert had translated this to mean: they’d found out who their source of information was, and cut ties before the PR disaster of the century could snowball into their simple court trial.

Valjean is peering down at a newspaper through reading glasses that he has clearly purchased for an amount of money somewhere in the region of five pounds, given that one of the arms is being held on with sellotape. Javert is staring off into space, sipping his coffee, tapping his fingers absently on the table. The quiet is so comfortable that Grantaire feels for a moment as if he’s intruded into something private. Then Valjean looks up and beams at him.

“Morning! You’re up early.”

Grantaire shrugs and smiles a greeting. “I must still be on Paris time, I guess. It’s...eight? There, I think.”

“Do you want coffee?” Javert asks, getting up to make him some before Grantaire can answer.

“Sure,” Grantaire replies with belated amusement.

“Patrin has invested in a very expensive coffee maker,” Valjean informs him, eyes twinkling. “He loves it more than me or any of his children, he’s informed me.”

“What have any of you lot ever done for me?” asks Javert grumpily. “Not made me barista-quality coffee, that’s for sure.”

“I could make you barista-quality coffee,” Grantaire offers.

“Too late,” says Javert. “I have a new, small, square child now. She gives me coffee and she doesn’t try to break into government compounds and she doesn’t get all the bones in her body broken. She’s my favourite.”

“That’s fair,” Grantaire allows. “Although in my defence I didn’t actually break any bones.”

“No, Bahorel and Feuilly didn’t leave any bones for anyone else to break,” Javert mutters darkly.

Grantaire grimaces. When they’d got back to London, Bahorel and Feuilly had been whisked off by Myriel to get an unfathomable number of x-rays. From how Javert tells it, it had been a deeply harrowing experience that had involved Myriel finagling them in and out of the radiology department whilst trying to prevent anyone from (a) noticing their wings, or (b) doing a full-body trauma scan that would commit the radiological evidence of their wings to posterity, for some underpaid NHS employee to subsequently leak to the Daily Mail. Bahorel has a cast on his arm and his ankle; Feuilly is in a cast up to his thigh. Both of them have major concussions that are making them grumpy and headachy and tired.

The others had fared better than Bahorel and Feuilly, but not by much. Gavroche’s wound had been easily sutured up by Myriel, but he’d needed a prolonged course of antibiotics to prevent any kind of infection. Bossuet has a badly sprained ankle—now wrapped in many layers of compression bandages—Eponine and Jehan have broken ribs, Musichetta has a sprained wrist, and the rest have a collection of significant bruises, cuts, scrapes, and minor concussions.

“I am sorry,” says Grantaire, for what might be the hundredth time this week.

“And you are also grounded!” Javert says brightly—also for approximately the hundredth time—and hands him his coffee.

“Grantaire,” Valjean says. “I’ve been meaning to ask you—have you heard anything from your friend Montparnasse?”

“We’re not friends,” Grantaire says automatically. “And no—I think he’s probably planning on making his way back to Paris, to be honest.”

“With the children?” Valjean asks, brow creased.

“I don’t know,” Grantaire says, and sighs. He hasn’t the slightest idea how Montparnasse plans to support four children and three teenagers. He has the money, Grantaire supposes. But he’s also a twenty-two year old without a legal identity, a source of income, or any kind of accommodation to his name. Not to mention, Grantaire doesn’t think that Montparnasse’s dreams for freedom have ever involved becoming a father of six.

“We were thinking,” Valjean says, glancing at Javert. “If he gets in touch with you, and mentions that he’s struggling, or that he needs help—”

Valjean’s gaze is wide and earnest. He looks older than the image Grantaire carries of him in his mind. His hair is now a bright, striking white and his face is etched with laughter lines and crow’s feet. Javert has changed too, over the years—he’s gone a dark, salt-and-pepper grey. It suits his dark skin and light grey eyes, but there’s no altering the fact that they’re both noticeably older now. They’re not young anymore. 

But they’re not old either, not yet. Grantaire remembers Valjean at the Institute, carrying Bahorel across his shoulders as if he weighed nothing. He remembers Javert knocking a guard to the ground with the force of his punch. 

“You mean help with money?” Grantaire asks, struggling to delicately characterise Montparnasse’s relationship with the legal acquisition of monetary assets. “I don’t think Montparnasse actually…struggles. When it comes to cash flow.”

“Money, yes,” says Valjean hesitantly. “But also—if they needed it—somewhere to stay. A home. A family, if they wanted. If that would be alright with you all, of course.”

Grantaire’s eyebrows hit his hairline. “More kids?” he asks. “Seriously?”

Valjean smiles wryly. “There’s hardly anybody better qualified for the job. We’ve already raised thirteen of you, after all.”

“And there were hardly any casualties!” adds Javert cheerfully.

Valjean grimaces at him. 

“I’m not saying you’re not qualified,” Grantaire says, laughing. “I just thought that now Gavroche was getting older you’d appreciate the peace and quiet! I didn’t think you’d be keen to increase the number of children on your retinue any time soon, after all the trouble we gave you.” He glances at Javert, who’s raised one dark eyebrow in a disbelieving arc, and hastily amends, “Give you.” Javert nods approvingly.

The expression Valjean gives Grantaire is a difficult one to parse. It’s so tender that it almost hurts to look at, but there’s something else in it—something like amusement—as if Grantaire has missed some very simple, very crucial element of the conversation. 

“I’m serious,” Grantaire presses. “Don’t you want, like...retirement?”

“Being a parent to you all is the single greatest privilege of my life,” says Valjean steadily. “It wasn’t a sacrifice, or a chore. It was an honour. Why wouldn’t I want to help others in a similar situation?”

“It’s possible you might be a little biased,” says Grantaire, grimacing slightly in the face of such direct earnestness.

“No, he’s right,” says Javert flatly. “You’re all little shits but you’re objectively superior to anyone else’s children.”

Grantaire grins. “How’d you figure?”

“Because you’re my children,” says Javert smugly.

Grantaire laughs. “Can’t argue with that.”

Valjean tilts his head at Grantaire. “You understand, I hope, that we are prouder of you than we can ever express, Grantaire?”

Grantaire looks down at his coffee. He’s always been more comfortable with Javert’s style of affection—brusque and offhand—than Valjean’s sincerity.

“I’m really sorry I gave you such a hard time,” says Grantaire to his coffee. “Leaving for so long, and cutting everybody off. I know it was shitty.”

Valjean stands and comes around the table, leaning over Grantaire to give him a hug. His warm, scratchy cardigan tickles comfortingly at Grantaire’s face. “There’s nothing to forgive,” he says gently. “You’re our son. All we care about is that you’re happy.”

“And alive,” adds Javert. “Really, we have very low parenting standards. You should be grateful. Some parents expect Oxbridge at minimum.”

Grantaire laughs, and it sounds a bit choked. “Noted.”

“You did the right thing,” Valjean continues. “You went away, yes. But you came back, and you’re so much happier now. Really, we should be thanking you. Not everybody manages to come back from that kind of place, Grantaire. It’s a testament to your strength.”

Grantaire can’t quite get his voice behind him. “I didn’t exactly do it alone,” he says hoarsely, thinking primarily of Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet, and the endless hours they’d poured into keeping him alive and, once they’d managed that, keeping him smiling.

“No one does anything alone,” says Valjean. “Every man is a piece of the continent.”

“Good Lord,” says Javert, rolling his eyes. “Don’t start quoting poetry. Not all of us at the table are blessed with a classical education, Jean.”

“Only Grantaire, as a matter of fact,” says Valjean with a wide smile.

Javert sighs. “Don’t remind me that all of our children are rich, please. You know how upsetting it is to my salt-of-the-earth, working class disposition.”

“Do forgive me,” says Valjean, rolling his eyes with a smile.

“I’ll consider it,” says Javert imperiously. Then he turns on Grantaire, and his expression is enough to make Grantaire want to flee the country again. “So,” he says.

“…Yes?” Grantaire says warily, taking a sip from his mug. 

“You and Enjolras.”

During the ensuing coughing fit, Valjean pats Grantaire on the back and says, “Patrin,” reproachfully.

Behind his impassive expression, Javert’s eyes glint with amusement. “You’ve made up, have you?” he asks. 

“Yes,” Grantaire says, with deep suspicion.

Javert hums neutrally, grey eyes bright over his cup of coffee.

Grantaire and Enjolras haven’t said anything to anyone about their relationship yet—mostly because the flock all appear to already know, possibly courtesy of Musichetta. He has no idea how much Valjean and Javert know—Grantaire had personally been hoping for nothing.

Javert has now adopted one of his most effective and infamous parenting interrogation techniques: obnoxiously loud silence. On dumb, teenage instinct, Grantaire decides that this shall be met with an equal return of force. He leans back in his seat, raises his eyebrows innocently, and takes a purposefully loud sip of coffee; Javert narrows his eyes.

Valjean, looking amused and exasperated, clearly decides to apply some maturity to the situation. “We know, Taire,” he says gently.

“You know…?” Grantaire tries, stalling for time. He literally can’t think of anything worse, psychologically speaking, than explaining his new relationship to his parents, but if it’s going to happen, he wants Enjolras there to take at least fifty percent of the flack.

“We know that you and Enjolras are involved,” says Valjean kindly. “We’ve always known.”

“You’ve…but...we haven’t?” Grantaire splutters, abandoning his attempts at denial in the face of this new, untrue accusation. “This is…new?”

“Hah!” Javert says triumphantly, looking at Valjean. “Told you!”

“Really?” Valjean asks Grantaire with interest.

“I told you, Jean, there was no way they had their shit together.”

“I didn’t say they had their shit together, I just thought—” Valjean blinks at Grantaire over the top of his reading glasses. “Well, what was all the flirting for, if you weren’t already an item?”

“No one says ‘an item’ any more, Jean,” says Javert.

Grantaire puts his head down on the kitchen table, and quietly prays to any merciful god that might be listening that he be immediately removed from the mortal coil posthaste.

“I hate this,” he informs them, voice muffled by the wood of the table. 

“We’re just saying we support you,” says Valjean earnestly, patting his arm. “And we’re glad you got your shit together.”

“Yep. Thanks. Good to have the paternal blessing.”

Javert barks out a laugh. “Yeah, I’ve got to hand it to you. Sharing parents makes that whole process much more efficient.”

Grantaire groans brokenly into the table.

“Do I pick my favourite and give the other one the shovel talk?” Javert muses idly. “Do I do it twice?”

“Patrin,” says Valjean, not doing a particularly great job of hiding the laughter in his voice, as far as Grantaire’s concerned.

Eponine stomps into the kitchen behind them—Grantaire can tell because she walks the same way she did when she was a kid, as if she’s taken a personal affront to the concept of a floor.

“Am I interrupting something?” she asks, poking the back of Grantaire’s head in greeting enroute to the toaster.

“No,” says Grantaire quickly.

“We’re just talking about Enjolras and Grantaire,” says Javert, smiling beatifically.

“Ah yes,” says Eponine, stuffing a bagel into the toaster. “This is my brother, and my brother’s boyfriend, who is also my brother. One of the many reasons none of you will ever be meeting any of my friends from work.”

“You have friends?” Grantaire snipes at her. 

“Yes, Taire!” Eponine trills. “And I’m not even related to all of them!” 

“Me and Enjolras are not related,” Grantaire hisses at her.

“Any time you have to say it’s not technically illegal about a relationship, it’s not great, Grantaire!” Eponine sing-songs, poking her bagel with a knife.

“Eponine, leave your brother’s boyfriend alone, we’re trying to nurture a supportive environment here,” says Javert.

Eponine cackles with laughter, and Grantaire continues to drink his coffee, feigning deafness. It’s better for everyone if he doesn’t indulge in a touch of sororicide before he’s even had breakfast. 

But when Eponine gets up to go munch her bagel elsewhere, Grantaire follows her, coffee in hand. He can deal with Eponine’s snark—he’s been dealing with it for the better part of a decade and a half, at this point. He’s much less capable in the face of fatherly humiliation. 

Eponine curls up on the couch in the den, and looks suspiciously at Grantaire. Her suspicions are proven immediately correct when he steals half of her bagel and takes a huge bite out of it. 

“I fucking hate you,” Eponine says with genuine disgust. 

“Mmm, the cinnamon kind,” says Grantaire appreciatively. He perches on the arm of the sofa and wiggles his feet under Eponine’s butt. She scowls and flicks through channels on the TV until she finds one that’s playing rock music videos on a loop. Eponine is the only person Grantaire knows who will go out of her way to watch music videos as if they’re a source of genuine entertainment. 

“Your database is making all kinds of waves,” says Grantaire idly. “So weird that I keep getting BBC news notifications about us.” 

“Yeah,” says Eponine, chewing on her bagel thoughtfully. “Is it weird that I’m mostly just annoyed that I can’t put it on my CV?” 

Grantaire laughs. “Very weird. Also very millennial.”

Eponine rolls her eyes. “This is the biggest classified information leak of the decade—top three of the century! And I’m not even getting credit for it!”

“It’s a cruel irony,” Grantaire drawls. 

“Still,” says Eponine after a beat. “I’m glad we did it.” 

“Yeah?”

Eponine nods and looks at Grantaire. “Fuck yeah. Those assholes? I’m glad I got to be the one to rip their lives into pieces. Huge therapeutic value. Viscerally satisfying.”

“It really is,” agrees Grantaire.

They sit in silence for a little while longer. On the TV, a band from the 80s is exploring the extent to which mullets and fade-in effects can poorly age. 

“Thanks for looking after Marius, by the way,” says Eponine. She’s staring, apparently entranced, at a man in a glittery spandex bodysuit whirling his waist-length hair around like a windmill. 

“What, when you got taken by the Institute? I mean, it could be argued that Marius looked after us.” 

“It could be argued that the three of you being the last ones standing was the epitome of dumbass-leading-dumbass, but I know that he appreciated the support.” 

“Well...we appreciated his support too. A lot.” 

“Yeah,” says Eponine chewing her lip absently. “He’s a good egg.” 

Grantaire thinks very long and hard before he says his next words. “So do you still like...like Marius?” Grantaire has long held his own opinions about Eponine’s brief descent into unrequited madness, but he’s never quite had the guts to ask her before. 

Eponine shoots him a very scathing glance. “What, as a person? Well, he can’t make tea for shit, that’s for sure.”

Grantaire grimaces. “Like him romantically. Do you still fancy him, Ponine?” 

Eponine grins at him, clearly enjoying making him suffer. “No, Grantaire, I don’t fancy Marius. God, can you imagine.” 

“I didn’t hallucinate the massive meltdown you had when he and Cosette started going out, did I?” Grantaire asks.

Eponine, unsurprisingly, thumps him with her foot. 

“Owwch! Jesus!” 

“Don’t be rude,” Eponine sniffs. “Being a teenager is hard.” 

Grantaire snorts. “Amen.” 

“To be honest,” says Eponine, “I’m not sure if I ever fancied him.”

“Really?” says Grantaire, not overly surprised. 

“I don’t know, it’s difficult. I think I just liked having something...someone that I didn’t share with the rest of you? Specifically with Cos. You know I love her more than...anything. But it used to feel like we never had any space or any time apart from each other. Except when me and Marius were hanging out. Then I could just be me...just be normal. And I loved that feeling. And it felt like she swooped in and ruined that.” 

“But she didn’t.” 

“But she didn’t,” Eponine concedes. “And it got better once she went to uni and I started working and we made our own friends. We’ve been good, these past few years. It doesn’t feel as...I don’t know. Suffocating.” 

“I know what you mean,” says Grantaire. 

“Yeah, I’m sure you do,” says Eponine, with a short laugh.

They watch the next music video in silence. There’s an eight minute guitar riff, a psychedelic light sequence, men writhing around in what looks like bondage gear, and an unconscionable amount of permed hair. 

“We never really did circle back to glam metal, as a society,” muses Grantaire. 

“Probably for the best,” says Eponine. 

Grantaire hums in agreement. 

“You know, I’m pretty sure I’m a lesbian,” Eponine says conversationally. “I think Marius was just a convenient target for my, like, adolescent rage and identity issues.” 

Grantaire nods slowly and tries to think of something to say that isn’t no shit, Eponine. 

“Thanks for not looking surprised,” Eponine says, huffing a laugh. “Bahorel had the gall to say he didn’t know.”

“Observational skills are not Rel’s forte,” says Grantaire reasonably.

“You can say that again,” mutters Eponine. “He has a friend though, at his boxing club? Basima. She’s very pretty. I might get him to give her my number, as like, punishment.” 

“Sounds like an appropriate punishment for failing to pick up on the very clear vibes you’ve been laying down since we were like...nine.” 

“Seriously, does he think I dress like this for the good of my health?” 

Eponine’s hair is a vibrant mess of dyed magenta and purple, flopping unstyled over her undercut. She’s currently wearing a pair of Bahorel’s gym shorts, a baggy tank top, and a hoodie Grantaire recognises as his own, from a few years ago.

She catches him looking at it. 

“Eyes off, asshole,” she says. “I wrestled this out of Enjolras’s horrible little racoon hands, fair and square. He can’t have them all.” 

Grantaire laughs. “Do I get any?” 

“No,” says Eponine, scowling. “If you’re going to fuck off to Paris and leave me again, I want to have something to show for it.” 

Grantaire frowns, and slides down onto the couch beside her, crowding into her side. She leans against him heavily, and he drops an arm over her shoulders. He can smell her apple-scented shampoo. 

“Love you, Ponine,” he says, resting his chin on her head. 

“Shut the fuck up,” says Eponine, pressing in closer to him. “I love you too.” 

&

Grantaire is drafted into helping clean up Jehan’s horribly bloodied flat. Jehan, although generally very self-sufficient, still needs a hand sometimes—and as it turns out, one of those ‘needs a hand’ times is when there’s extensive blood stains needing scrubbed from the walls and floorboards.

The rug is a write-off. Grantaire rolls it up and Javert picks it up in his car, presumably to dump it wherever it is that people-in-the-know dump large fluffy rugs that are covered in gore.

After that, it’s just a matter of cleaning the rest of the surfaces. Jehan does the more routine cleaning—wiping down the kitchen counters and mopping the floors. Grantaire takes a putty knife to the walls and starts to gently scrape the blood away.

“Jehan,” Grantaire says, as flakes of blood scatter to the ground around his knees. “I’m not going to lie to you. This is one of my grimmer life experiences.”

Jehan flashes him a smile. “I could always get a cleaner in, but I suppose that might raise some questions.”

“You could just tell them you’re a Romantic, I’m sure they’d be fine with that.”

Jehan’s laughter is bright and clear like a bell. “You think they’d accept that blood is simply my muse?”

“Hmm, on reflection?” Grantaire scrapes a chunk of gristle off the wall with a grimace. “No.”

As the dark stains fade from the walls and floors, Grantaire starts to notice the small, pretty details of the room. It’s generally fairly sparse in terms of furniture and wall art, but Jehan has clearly spent a lot of time collecting knick-knacks and tactile art to fill the space with.

There’s a tangle of silver, bronze and gold-plated ivy leaves cascading off one of the walls. A narrow bookshelf holds a few heavy braille books, and a much larger collection of driftwood, shells, crystals, and unusually shaped or textured rocks. A collection of alphabetised vinyl discs are stacked next to the window.

And hanging above the window, is—

“Jehan?” Grantaire asks.

“Yes?”

“Why do you have a bunch of our feathers hanging above your window?”

It’s a collection of thirteen feathers, hung from pieces of fishing line, cut at different lengths. Grantaire recognises his own purple-green-black petrol sheen, Enjolras’s bright gold, Eponine and Gavroche’s matte black with vivid white splotches, Musichetta’s incredible neon blue, Bahorel’s striped reddish black, Cosette’s downy white-gold, Bossuet’s dark umber, Joly’s soft grey, Combeferre and Courfeyrac’s gentle tawny, and Feuilly’s bright white. In the centre hangs one of Jehan’s long dark nightjar feathers.

It is abjectly horrifying.

“Jehan,” Grantaire says, choking on a laugh. “What the fuck?”

Jehan smiles dreamily. “It’s pretty!”

“It’s so creepy, Jehan. Where did you get them?”

Jehan doesn’t answer, just leans backwards off the edge of the futon and grins upside-down at Grantaire, long red hair pooling onto the ground.

“Frightening!” Grantaire declares. He strips off the rubber gloves he’s been wearing and drops them down onto the rim of the mop bucket. Then he folds down onto the futon next to Jehan. “You don’t have a collection of our baby teeth in a box somewhere, do you?”

“We lost all our baby teeth before we left the Institute,” says Jehan, looking forlorn.

“That’s not the rejoinder I was hoping for, I’m gonna be honest with you, babe,” says Grantaire seriously.

Jehan smiles widely. 

They sit quietly for a little while. Grantaire continues to gaze around the room, absorbing the calm atmosphere and surreptitiously checking for covert collections of teeth. Jehan fidgets with the duvet, expression thoughtful. 

Then Jehan breaks the silence. “Hey, there should be a badge on my bedside table. Would you put it on my jacket for me?” 

“Sure.” Grantaire scours the clutter on the bedside table. Amongst the shells and shiny rocks and curios, he spots a little pin badge. It has text on it, which is reason enough for Jehan to need a hand positioning it on the jacket, but Grantaire thinks this might also be Jehan’s way of starting A Conversation. 

He picks it up, and Jehan sits up to face him, settling cross-legged on the futon. 

Grantaire, also cross-legged, leans forwards. He gently brushes Jehan’s long hair out of the way, and pins the little badge onto the lapel of the denim jacket. 

“Do you want me to use…I mean. Sorry. You probably don’t want me to just blunder on in here.”

Jehan laughs. “It’s fine. Yes, if you could use they/them pronouns for me in the future, I’d appreciate it.”

“Of course,” says Grantaire. “Do you want me to tell the others?”

This is how things tend to work, in their family. Important life updates come as often through the grapevine as they do in person. It’s a mark of trust and laziness in equal measure. But this seems like the kind of information that Grantaire needs consent to share before he passes it around.

Jehan looks thoughtful. “Sure, if it comes up. I’ll talk with them about it as I see them, I guess.”

“Cool.” Grantaire chews on his lip a little. “I’m sorry if I’ve…misgendered you, or anything. In the past.”

Jehan shakes their head. “No, it’s fine. I didn’t start thinking about it til recently. And then, when the Institute sent people to get me—I could hear them talking about me in the hall, before they came in. And I thought, ‘they’re not talking about me, that’s not me’. And it happened a few times, at the Institute. They spoke about me as if I was a person that I’m not. And I just—I’m not what they made me, and I’m not what they call me. I’m myself. And I don’t have a gender because gender doesn’t mean anything to me.”

“Can you—” Grantaire begins. “How do you think about gender? Given...everything.” 

How Jehan senses things with such uncanny accuracy has always been one of those topics of unspoken silence in their family. Grantaire assumes this habit comes from a reluctance to interrogate each other about the things the Institute did to them, and Jehan has never freely offered any information about their own experiences in that regard. But Grantaire feels like he’s been on a crash course recently in if you don’t ask, you’ll never know, and you might do something dumb like assume. So he’s going to ask, even though it goes against his own entrenched childhood instincts.

Jehan purses their lips and looks thoughtful.

“I’ve never explained how I...perceive the world have I?”

“Not to me, anyway.”

“Hmm.” Jehan smiles faintly. “Okay, so. I think if I’d never been able to see, I’d see nothing. Not black, just—you know, whatever it is you see out the back of your head. My brain just wouldn’t have the wiring for seeing. But they made me blind when I was seven. Until then, I’d been able to see everything perfectly. Gradually, as the experiment wore on, I saw less and less—first the details, and then the big stuff. Colours last. Until there was only light and dark left. And without context, without anything else, that didn’t really mean a lot anyway.”

Grantaire reaches out and takes Jehan’s hand. They squeeze back, a little press of comfort.

They continue, “But the thing was, to start with, I didn’t notice. Because I mentally filled in what I thought I was seeing, and, as it turned out, that wasn’t much different from what was actually there.”

“What, seriously?” Grantaire asks. He doesn’t know what he’d assumed, but he’d probably been leaning a little too hard into bats and sonar.

“Mhmm,” Jehan says. “I thought for a long time it was just my imagination. Because sometimes I’d be wrong, or sometimes I’d respond to things nobody else did. The invigilators always made it out like it was a kind of phantom limb thing. Like, it was just my brain making up stimuli because it thought there was something there.”

“But you weren’t making it up,” says Grantaire.

“No,” Jehan agrees. “But I wasn’t seeing either. That’s what you guys get wrong—I can’t see. What I see isn’t what’s actually there, it’s my own interpretation of the stimuli I pick up. Which is—that’s true of everyone, to a greater or lesser extent, I suppose. What you see is your brain’s interpretation of stimuli too, but your stimuli comes from your optic nerve. But I see things that other people don’t...I can see sound, you know.”

“Really?”

“Yep. I think if I got my vision back suddenly, it’d be really disconcerting. I see music as waves of colour. And everyone’s voices are different patterns, everyone’s footsteps have different shapes. I like that—it’s part of what I love about you all. I wouldn’t want to lose it.”

“That sounds…very noisy,” Grantaire says with a grin.

Jehan shoots him a dry look. “Being in a room with all of you at once? It’s like fireworks going off. So many colours and sounds and shapes. It's beautiful, but it’s a lot.”

Grantaire snorts, “I can imagine.” He thinks for a while, then asks curiously, “So why do you think you’re right so often?”

“Honestly, I think it’s the same thing that makes Cosette lucky and Bossuet unlucky, and causes Eponine to hear lies. The same thing that lets Combeferre understand what people are thinking. I think something about how they made us changes something about the way we perceive the world. But then they made me blind, and my perception went into overdrive.”

“Huh,” says Grantaire. “That makes sense. I think we all just thought you had super-hearing.” He says the last bit self-deprecatingly—it’s a pretty dumb idea, in retrospect.

Jehan snorts. “It’s not my hearing that’s good, it’s my instincts. I know I say, you know, I can hear that she’s upset, or whatever. But it’s not actually any specific sound I’m hearing. It’s just how my brain processes me knowing something I have no reason to know.” 

Grantaire’s never experienced the extra-sensory perception that other members of their family talk about. He’s not sure if he understands how it works, exactly. Eponine once described hearing lies as ‘listening to off-key music’, but Musichetta has been notoriously cagey about how she ‘just knows’ things, and Cosette and Bossuet don’t even seem to be aware of their luck (or lack thereof) half the time. 

Jehan seems to sense Grantaire’s confusion in his silence, because they smile wryly. 

“Say I asked you to imagine a house. And I described different parts of it to you. You could build up an image of it in your mind’s eye—what the porch looked like, and the windows, and the hall. And the location of all the furniture inside it. You’d probably find navigating through the house relatively easy, once you knew where everything was. I have an image in my head of what’s around me, too. This room, for example—Eponine described it to me when I first moved in, and I can see the direction of light from the window, and I know from memory where all the furniture was placed. I know where I put all the pebbles and bits of wood, and I can feel the texture of those things because I’ve already held them. But some things, I don’t know how I know. I knew when Bahorel and Feuilly had accidentally flipped up an edge of the rug one night. I knew when the Institute men were standing outside the door. I know where you are, and not just from your voice or your footsteps. I can’t explain why I know those things, but my brain fills in the gaps, it puts you in the room. And when I focus, all the gaps go away, and I know where everything is.”

Jehan frowns and rubs their face. “But it’s exhausting to process all that information at once. It’s overwhelming. Imagine Musichetta being aware, constantly, of the outcomes of every minor decision she made—it’s enough to drive you mad. When I started travelling around London by myself for work, there was so much of everything. So much noise, and so many people and they were all moving so quickly. I started using my cane way more—it stops people from cutting me off and it’s easier than constantly being on guard for...uneven ground, and barriers and things like that. Because I can’t pay attention to that without paying attention to everything, and it’s too much. I learned how to be hyper-vigilant at the Institute, but to live my life now in a way that isn’t just...incredibly overwhelming and exhausting, I’ve had to learn to kind of...let go, of some of that alertness. Use other tools to navigate the world. My brain still fills in the gaps, but...naturally, not in a migrainous blur.” 

Jehan, when walking with their family in busy public places, has always used their arms for guidance. They go with Bahorel and Feuilly grocery shopping once a week, and with Eponine or Courfeyrac to the markets when they want new clothes. They send Grantaire documents that aren’t compatible with their text-to-speech software, and Grantaire records himself speaking them aloud and sends them back. The flock love Jehan, and support them unreservedly. But Grantaire remembers, uncomfortably, the multitude of occasions in which they’d joked about Jehan’s perceptiveness, and the buried implication that Jehan wasn’t like other blind people, that Jehan didn’t need the same things that other blind people needed. 

“I’m sorry if we ever made you feel...uncomfortable. About needing accessibility stuff,” says Grantaire, frowning with guilt. 

Jehan shrugs. “We were children, we trod on each others’ toes. I’ve never had any doubt that you all love me.” 

“We do,” Grantaire agrees. “But we can still love you better.” 

Jehan smiles at him gently. “When did you get so wise?” 

“I’m long due some wisdom,” Grantaire says with a laugh. 

Jehan lies back and Grantaire mirrors them, so they’re lying horizontally across the futon. 

There’s a comfortable silence for a few minutes. Daylight stripes across the room, little motes of dust suspended in it. 

“It’s interesting what you said about your perception being similar to the others’ powers,” Grantaire says. “I’d never thought about it like that.” 

Jehan hums. “That’s as far as I’ve thought about it too, to be honest. I’m not a scientist, I don’t really care what my genome looks like. It’s not interesting to me. I’m more interested in the bigger questions.”

“Like what?” Grantaire grins at them. 

“Like the noise flowers make when they open up, and the shape of the sound of a flute. The texture of poetry, the colour of language. The taste of the stars. Those things are much more important to me than the why.”

Grantaire smiles. Jehan is poetry made animate—it’s one of the things Grantaire loves most about them. 

“And what about…like, how you see yourself?” he asks.

Jehan looks thoughtful. “The only clear image I have of myself is how I was at the age of seven, but I don’t really think much about that anymore. They don’t feel like me, any more than a flower feels like a seed. I suppose…the edges of my skin are pretty well defined, I’m comfortable inside them. I know what I am, but I’m made of too many things to know how to say it.”

They turn towards Grantaire and grin. “But I’ve looked all the way down to the bottom of myself, and I’ve never found a thing that looked like a gender. So I suppose I should use words that reflect that reality.”

Grantaire smiles so widely it hurts. “You know that I love you a completely dumb amount?” he asks.

“I do indeed know that,” says Jehan. 

“You’re sure?” Grantaire grins. “You don’t want me to recite an ode to you? Because I will recite an ode. Just say the word and I will ode you up.” 

“I know how much you love me, Grantaire,” says Jehan, laughing. “I can hear it in your voice. I always have.”

Grantaire experiences a strange and dizzying moment of double-vision, in which the image of Jehan—beautiful, a cascade of dark red hair, a wide, bright smile, a stubborn set to their jaw, and a dark, purpling, still-healing bruise over their temple—is overlaid with the image of them as a child—shy and fragile-looking, with a little flicking nose and delicate features.

“You know you were the first person I ever loved, after Enjolras,” Grantaire says, the words emerging almost in the same moment the memory washes over him. “And you were the first person ever to see me for who I was, I think.”

“You were the first person I ever loved, too,” says Jehan. “The first person I ever met who made me think ‘this one’s important’.”

Grantaire squeezes Jehan’s hand, and they squeeze back.

From where they’re lying, the feathers are almost overhead. They revolve slowly through the air, as if in an invisible breeze.

“They are kinda pretty,” Grantaire admits.

Jehan hums with smug agreement.

&

Grantaire and Enjolras sneak out and go on a date.

Neither of them calls it a date—it feels strange, to slip into the routines of romance, when the feelings between them have gone nameless and unacknowledged for so long. But there’s a mutual awareness that they’re sneaking out so that they can hang out with each other, alone, and not with a crowd of family members. That makes it a date, Grantaire decides.

They go to the National Gallery, because it’s near and rain has started to spit down on them. They wander through the galleries hand in hand.

It occurs to Grantaire that although he and Enjolras spent the vast majority of their formative years joined at the hip, outside of the hours of sleep they’d very rarely spent any of that time alone. And although they’d lived in London together for ten years, they’ve never actually wandered around a museum in each others’ company before.

Grantaire can tell that Enjolras doesn’t see much to get excited about in the endless portraits of dead people, but that he’s enjoying Grantaire’s enthusiasm, and the reprieve from the rain.

“Who’s your favourite artist?” Enjolras asks him, then immediately grimaces. “I know I should know this, probably. You and Feuilly like modern art, right?”

Grantaire laughs. “It’s okay, I’m not offended. I do like modern art! But I think my favourite is…Turner, probably? But he wasn’t a Modernist—he was a Romantic. Although I think they say that Turner’s Romanticism was kind of the origins of the French Impressionists. You know, they started this idea that like…realism isn’t truthful enough. That just showing something as it is doesn’t tell people any truth worth knowing. You have to dress it up, tell a story. Same with Eugène Delacroix. They both liked using these bold sweeping colours, rather than lines and contours. And they both liked metaphors and myths and stories.”

“Eugène...?”

“Delacroix,” Grantaire finishes, grinning. “You’d know his stuff if you saw it. Liberty Leading the People. It’s very you.”

Enjolras grins back. “I’ll take your word for it.”

“That one’s in the Louvre, sadly. I’ll take you there some day, it’s amazing.”

“I’d like that,” says Enjolras, smiling a little helplessly.

“But you’re in luck because there’s Turners here!” Grantaire says, beaming. “Come on, I’ll show you them.”

He drags a bemused Enjolras to Room 34, where six of Grantaire’s favourite paintings in the world hang behind protective glass.

“Wow,” says Enjolras when he sees them. “I do like these.”

“Right? They’re beautiful! They called him the painter of light, ‘cause he focuses so much on the sun and where the light falls, and its reflection on water. But he didn’t shy away from using this kind of blackness too. He used them both together, like a kind of...modern-day chiaroscuro, to illuminate what he wanted. The ‘question of the luminous and the hidden’, I’ve heard it called.” 

“Like that one,” Enjolras says, pointing at a painting of stormy seas and sky, cluttered with figures of people and keeling boats.

“Hah! Calais harbour, I flew over that! It looks a bit different now.”

“Shhh,” Enjolras hushes him, laughing, glancing around the gallery.

Grantaire laughs quietly and does his own glance around the room. It’s mostly for show—Grantaire knows an empty room from a populated one by the feel of it on the back of his neck; he doesn’t need to do an exploratory pirouette.

“Other people fly, you know,” Grantaire teases, nudging Enjolras with his elbow. “In planes and whatnot. It’s only suspicious to talk about if you immediately clutch at your wings afterwards.”

Enjolras rolls his eyes at him, still smiling, and turns back to the painting. “It makes me feel a bit sea sick,” he admits.

“It’s cool though, right?” Grantaire says. “Look at the little patches of blue sky, and the big black clouds. And then the tiny seagulls in the top corner—hah, tiny little Feuillys. But look at them, don’t they kind of feel like what flying feels like?”

Enjolras spins towards him, grinning wide and disbelieving. He kisses him fiercely, once, and then plasters his fingers over Grantaire’s mouth. “Grantaire, dear,” he says, close and quiet and half-laughing. “You are literally going to give me an anxiety attack in the National Gallery, please stop talking about flying.”

Grantaire cracks up. “I’m sorry! I’m sorry!” he mumbles, through Enjolras’s fingers.

Enjolras doesn’t let up, just shakes his head, eyes crinkled with amusement.

“Look at the flags though,” Grantaire says, voice still muffled. “Don’t they just look super like flags? How’d he do that, huh?”

Enjolras glances back at the painting, still laughing quietly. “They do look like flags,” he admits reluctantly.

Grantaire kisses his fingers, and Enjolras trails them up the edge of Grantaire’s jaw delicately, and pulls him in for a gentle, more serious kiss.

They break apart after a moment and stare at each other. Grantaire doesn’t think he’ll ever be able to appreciate the magnitude of his love for Enjolras. It’s too big to look at all at once, he can only look at it in pieces—the exact shade of Enjolras’s eyes, his rose-pink eyelids and long blonde lashes, his thumbs settled along Grantaire’s cheekbones, the line of his nose, his smile. It’s all there, in the details.

“Love you,” says Grantaire.

“Love you too,” says Enjolras, lips curling upwards with a simple, barefaced kind of joy.

Behind them, they hear the noise of children running, and pull apart slightly. Enjolras takes Grantaire’s hand and swings it playfully between them.

“I like this one,” says Enjolras, indicating another painting—a railway bridge disappearing off into the horizon, and a steam train barreling towards them.

“Rain, Steam and Speed,” Grantaire says. “That’s one of my favourites. There used to be a little hare, running across it, just there. It’s faded now but you can still kinda see the shape of it.”

Enjolras squints at it and says, “Oh, yeah!”

“It’s so noisy, and it feels like…I always feel like it’s a nod to the chaos of the world, and—you know, this was painted around the time of the industrial revolution, and I feel like maybe…He’s not making any judgement about modernity. He’s almost embracing it. The rain and the wind are the same as the noise and the speed of the train. They’re all part of the world. And the whole world is racing towards the future.”

Grantaire turns towards Enjolras, and finds him gazing back at him, his face full of a tenderness that makes warmth rise in Grantaire’s cheeks.

“I really like this one,” says Enjolras, with a soft smile.

“The wild pursuit of the future?” Grantaire grins. “That tracks.”

“Which one’s your favourite?” Enjolras asks.

“Oh, this one.” Grantaire tugs Enjolras over to another picture. “The Parting of Hero and Leander.”

“It’s pretty,” Enjolras agrees, eyes tracing over the dark, tumultuous sweeps of colour.

“Do you know the myth?” Grantaire asks.

Enjolras smiles wryly. “What do you think?”

Grantaire sighs, faux-disdainful. “It’s only one of the most referenced Greek myths ever, Enjolras.”

“Everything I’ve ever learned about Greek mythology has been from you, and against my will,” says Enjolras, grinning. “So unless you’ve told me about it, then no, I haven’t heard of it.”

Grantaire rolls his eyes. “Okay, so Hero is your girl here on the left, holding up the torch. And Leander is this guy in the water, swimming towards her. They lived on opposite sides of this strait of water, the Hellespont, but they fell in love. Every night, Hero would hold up the torch, and Leander would swim to her, using the light to guide his way.”

“Let me guess,” says Enjolras drily. “They both lived happily ever after.”

Grantaire snorts. “The Greeks weren’t about that shit. One night there was a big storm, and it blew Hero’s light out, and Leander got caught up in the waves and drowned.”

“Ah,” says Enjolras, sounding amused.

“The spirits piling up on the right, in amongst the waves—they’re kind of like fate, chasing Leander down. Pulling him under.”

“The Greeks had a very pessimistic view on trying, didn’t they?” says Enjolras thoughtfully.

Grantaire thinks about that for a while, letting his eyes rest on the hard, shining, opal-white harbour, the suggestion of a sandy beach in shadow, the whirling waves, and the luminous moon, just visible through a gap in the clouds.

“The Romantics loved stories like that,” says Grantaire finally. “The Greeks too. It’s the whole point of the Greek tragedy—that people try, and they fail. And that failure—it’s inevitable. Fatal and unstoppable. It can hinge on a lack of judgement, or a simple mistake, but often it’s just hubris. It’s having the gall to reach out towards something that the gods and fate have decided that you can’t have. And I always think that when we talk about that in terms of like…modern day Christianity-flavoured mythos, that story comes across as a kind of simple cause-and-effect one. You’re punished for the sin of trying to reach the person you love, or pushing back against a prophecy, or not doing what the gods want. Game over, curtains close. But when you think about it in terms of how the ancients thought about stories, how they told them…”

“How was that?” Enjolras asks after a pause. He looks much more interested than he has any right to, given that Grantaire is rambling about classics to a man whose familiarity with the humanities starts and ends with political science.

“They told them verbally,” says Grantaire. “It’s called an oral tradition—they told the stories out loud, and passed them down to each other. Scholars think that’s why the sea is always described as wine-dark and the dawn is always rosy-fingered—it was easier to remember one description than make up a different one each time you said it.”

“Why does that change the stories themselves, though?”

“Because they tell them over and over again,” says Grantaire. “Over and over and over, through history, through millennia. And that’s—I think in the context of that, the meaning is different. I don’t think it means ‘you try and you fail and you should have known better than to even start’. I think it means…try. Reach. Keep reaching. Never stop telling the story, never stop reaching for the sun, or the opposite shore, or the people that you love. Never stop trying. Because as long as the story is being heard, as long as you keep trying to get to the ending that you deserve—a happy ending, a tomorrow after the endless today—then there’s still hope.”

“You think one day Leander will reach the other side?” Enjolras asks. 

They stand, shoulder to shoulder, hand in hand, and look at the painting.

“Of course he does,” says Grantaire softly. “That’s where Hero’s standing. And look—in this painting the light still hasn’t gone out.”

&

They get takeaway coffees at the gallery cafe, and head out into the cold September air. They wander up through Leicester Square and Chinatown, past the Sondheim theatre. They consider getting dinner, but Soho is bustling with tourists and commuters, and the group chat is filling with plaintive requests from Bahorel that they get pizza tonight, so they wander hand in hand back towards Piccadilly Circus, and the Tube line that will take them out towards home.

Piccadilly Circus is busy, the screens flashing their usual assortment of neon adverts into the darkening evening. Grantaire and Enjolras run across the road through a gap in traffic, and end up on the steps of the Shaftesbury memorial fountain.

“Look!” says Grantaire, leaning into dumb, childish humour and pointing at the statue in the centre of the plinth. “It’s you!”

Enjolras squints up at the beautiful, winged, bow-wielding god. “Cupid?” he asks, apparently mystified.

“You’re kidding me, Enjolras.”

“What?”

“Cupid?”

“Isn’t it? He’s got the little bow? Isn’t that for hitting people with the heart arrows?”

“Okay, apparently the sum total of your Classical education comes from the Looney Tunes. Enj, baby. You’ve dressed up for Halloween exactly once in your life. Remember? What did you go as?”

“You never told me!” Enjolras squawks. “You just threw a bed sheet at me and called it a day!”

Grantaire stops, amused and shocked in equal measure. “You never knew?”

“No!” says Enjolras, indignant but laughing. “I asked Jehan and they said Cupid and then I asked you and you said they’d just said that to be incendiary to your delicate Greek sensibilities.”

Grantaire laughs, head back, rain falling on his face. The two of them are the only ones standing still. Beneath them, around the bottom of the steps to the fountain, people stream by with dark umbrellas.

“I’m sorry, sweetheart. I thought you were joking. We walked past this thing every day on the way to school, I thought you might have done a Google search at some point.”

Enjolras shoots him an unamused look and Grantaire grins. 

“It’s the Greek god Anteros. Not Eros, that’s who people usually think it is...Eros is the Greek equivalent of the Roman god Cupid, by the way—he’s the Greek god of love.”

“And Anteros?”

Grantaire grins at him. A bus rolls past, and water scatters from the road onto the nearby pavement. The streetlights are warm and yellow around them.

“He’s the god of requited love. Counter-love. The story is that Eros—who was his brother in that way that Greek gods are kinda siblings but not really—was lonely. So Ares and Aphrodite gave him Anteros. Love offered and love returned. Two halves of one whole.”

Enjolras looks, for one horrifying moment, like he’s about to cry in the middle of Piccadilly Circus.

Grantaire laughs and hugs him. “I’ve never been very subtle, you know.”

Enjolras hugs him back and they stand, united against the London tumult, their chins tucked into the damp shoulders of each other’s coats. 

&

Grantaire calls Claquesous when he’s been back in London for two weeks.

“Hang on,” says Claquesous when he answers the call. There’s a crash somewhere in the distance. “Azelma!” Claquesous shouts. “Not that one!”

“Dare I ask?” Grantaire muses. 

“Just some light crime,” says Claquesous. “Don’t worry about it.”

“Oh,” says Grantaire. “Good.”

“Are you calling to quit?” Claquesous asks bluntly.

“What?”

“Are you calling to quit?” Claquesous repeats, at a higher volume.

“Listen,” says Grantaire. “I’m sorry I haven’t been back, I—”

“That’s not a problem. Mardisoir went missing for months, you’re allowed to take two weeks of unpaid leave, I don’t give a shit. But it seems like coming back to Paris isn’t at the top of your priority list right now. Or at all.”

“I…” Grantaire begins. He’s sitting on the step at the back door. Mercifully, it isn’t raining anymore, although the grass is wet and the air is cold. “I love my job, Sous. I really love it. It’s the only job I’ve ever had that I’ve felt like…this could be something I just do. Like…forever. But I don’t know how to come back to Paris right now. My family are here and…I don’t want to leave them again.”

It’s the first time he’s verbalised the sentiment out loud. He knows that Enjolras is worried about it—Grantaire’s other life in Paris, and the draw it holds over him. They haven’t spoken about it yet—Grantaire wanted to work out what he wanted, first, and giving up his job is proving to be less emotionally straightforward than he might have hoped. He wants nothing more than a life where he wakes up next to Enjolras and has brunch with Jehan and drinks beer with Bahorel, Feuilly and Eponine in the evenings. He wants to see Combeferre, Courfeyrac and Cosette for dinner every Sunday. He wants to persuade Javert to teach him how to ride a motorbike, in spite of Valjean’s admonitions. But, on the other hand, he really likes his job, and he doesn’t want to go back to the circle of hell that is the service industry. And he still wants to curl up on the couch with Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta and watch Star Trek, and talk about how the death of sci-fi came when the genre started taking itself entirely too seriously. 

On the other end of the line, Claquesous is silent.

“So I guess I am going to have to quit,” Grantaire finishes miserably. “But I don’t really want to.”

“Mardisoir has a…suggestion,” says Claquesous. “We thought this would come up, what with everything that’s happened, and she wanted me to run this option by you.”

“I’m open to anything,” says Grantaire honestly. “I just really don’t want to be a barista again.”

“Mardisoir suggested that you work as a contractor for us, doing the same stuff you’ve been doing here, you know…database filing and internet sleuthing. You’d earn less money, probably, ‘cause it’d be an hourly rate kind of thing, and you wouldn’t be able to do the on-the-ground bin-rooting stuff, and that’s where you really do come into your own as an asset to the team.”

“Thanks,” says Grantaire drily. Privately, he’s elated—this is more than he could have ever hoped for.

Claquesous continues, “For the PI course and exam…you need a registered PI company sponsorship to be able to apply, and we’d be happy to do that still, if you can come up with some of the money for it.”

“Yeah! I mean, I’m sure I’d be able to borrow some money from my parents. But…what’s the point if I can’t utilise those skills?”

“Well, that’s the other half of the suggestion,” says Claquesous. “So, theoretically, once you have your licence—if you want, and if you can get a few staff together—you could open another PI business in London, with our assistance. We’d invest some money in the initial outlay, and we’d still be your overhead bosses, so you wouldn’t be doing the whole thing solo. You’d just be the manager of the London branch, essentially. We could give you advice as and when you needed it.”

“You’re kidding,” breathes Grantaire. “You’d do that?”

“Well, it’s not a charity venture,” says Claquesous, sounding irritated. “It’s an investment. PI businesses are much more profitable in London. As we all know, the English are little sneaks. Having a branch in each city would let us work on a bigger scale, too—if we were following someone who was travelling between the UK and France, we’d have people in place to do the groundwork in both countries.”

“That’s—that would be amazing,” says Grantaire, feeling near tears with gratitude. He’d been expecting to leave this conversation without a job, and with the prospect of Starbucks in his immediate future. Now he has a five year plan. Strangely, that prospect is one he finds exhilarating, rather than terrifying or overwhelming.

“Okay then,” says Claquesous. “Well, we can work out the rest of the details at some point. But Mardisoir will be happy to know that we don’t have to expect your resignation letter in the mail.”

“I mean, I’m fairly sure I remember you saying I was fired,” says Grantaire, grinning. 

“Oh well, if that’s what you’d prefer—” Claquesous starts.

“Nope! No, that’s fine. I’m good. Thank you, Claquesous!”

“Uh huh.”

“Seriously, thank you.”

“Seriously, please don’t mention it.”

“Okay,” Grantaire grins. Then a thought occurs to him. “Hey, uh, have you seen Montparnasse?”

“No,” says Claquesous. “If you do see him, could you tell him that Patron-Minette is not a goddamn creche? We still have his toothy child.”

“I’ll be sure to pass it along,” says Grantaire, frowning absently at the soggy grass under his feet. “I’m just a bit worried, I haven’t heard from him since the day we got back.”

“I’m sure he’ll be fine,” says Claquesous, sounding unconcerned. “He’s probably just gone to ground. He’ll reappear at some point.”

“Yeah…” Grantaire agrees

The talk for a little while longer, Claquesous updating Grantaire on the trials of dealing with clients, Bizarro’s most recent arrest, and Mardisoir’s ongoing attempts to get not-burnt coffee from the cafe under her flat. Then it starts to rain, and Grantaire rings off and heads inside.

 

&

It feels like the remnants of adrenaline from the night at the Institute are still buzzing through Grantaire’s nervous system, more than two weeks later. Slamming doors and sudden shouts still make him jump—even the noise of Enjolras coming into the bedroom when Grantaire has his back to the door makes his hair stand on end. He thinks that somewhere deep down he’d expected that, now everything was out in the open, he’d feel safer. He doesn’t. He kind of wonders if he ever will. 

He gets in touch with Dahlia, and asks to do video calls rather than in-person sessions. He doesn’t tell her much in the way of details, other than the fact that a family emergency had necessitated a last-minute move back to London. She agrees happily, and doesn’t ask any other questions. Grantaire wonders how much she guesses at, and if she’s made any connection between his sudden departure and the news story still dominating the international headlines. 

The biggest concern they all have, as they watch the world come to terms with the idea that winged humans might exist, is the idea that somebody, somewhere, has seen one of them. Every morning Grantaire half-expects a news story to come out that some amateur bird-watcher snapped a photo of the flock flying over the Lake District four years ago, and never realised what they’d seen until now. Remarkably though, it seems like (with the now-infamous exception of Bahorel parading around the house shirt-off in front of Marius) none of the flock have ever been spotted, let alone caught on camera.

For their entire lives they’ve depended on people not having even the faintest of reasons to suspect them. In high school they were considered strange in many ways, but nobody had ever floated the idea that they might have extra feathery appendages. Now, that’s changed. Now everyone in the world is aware, at least on some level, that there’s a possibility of their existence. That puts them in danger—not just from malevolent organisations looking to get in on the human experimentation game, but also from every idle spectator with an iPhone camera.

These are the worries swirling around at the bottom of Grantaire’s mind, and between that and the jumpiness, he almost expects to have to battle back another wave of numbness and disconnected apathy. But strangely, for the most part, he seems to be doing okay. In fact, he’s more than okay—he’s happier than he has been in his entire living memory. 

The flock spend the initial weeks after their return to London lounging around Valjean’s living room like they’re back in high school, piled on top of each other like cats. Bahorel and Feuilly are the two fixed points in the room, uncharacteristically still and quiet given their usual exuberance and energy. They watch movies on low volume and talk about nothing and take long hazy naps as autumn rain taps against the windows.

Grantaire is sitting with Enjolras in an armchair, in a little tangle of limbs. Enjolras is asleep, his head resting against the back of the seat, his hand entwined with Grantaire’s.

Grantaire, waking from his own nap, remembers anew why he doesn’t like napping, now that depression doesn’t exhaust his every waking moment. He’s groggy and over-warm, and he thinks that if he doesn’t drink something in the next few minutes, his tongue will probably adhere to the roof of his mouth forever. He extracts himself from Enjolras with inordinate care and climbs over Joly, Bossuet and Musichetta, who are sprawled out on the floor—making sure not to move Joly’s chair out of reach as he edges past it. He heads into the kitchen and passes Valjean at the table, talking to the lawyers on the phone. As he goes by, Valjean smiles at him, and pats him affectionately on the arm.

Grantaire opens the fridge to get a can of Coke, and freezes.

Something moves outside the kitchen window.

Grantaire turns towards it slowly, and looks out at an utterly unremarkable rainy Tuesday afternoon. 

He sets the can down, slips his feet into a pair of Gavroche’s trainers, lying discarded by the door, and heads out into the garden.

There’s nobody immediately visible. He stares out at the garden, down towards the hedges and Valjean’s flower garden, and the little thicket of trees. There’s a light breeze rocking the branches and the rose stems. Otherwise, everything is still.

He walks round the narrow pathway at the edge of the house, gravel crunching under his feet. When he turns the corner and finds a man standing there, it’s so sudden that he doesn’t even have time to feel surprised.

Montparnasse is wearing dark clothing, a hood pulled low over his face. 

“Hi,” says Grantaire carefully.

Montparnasse shifts on his feet. “Hi.”

“Do you want to come in?” Grantaire asks after a pause.

“No,” says Montparnasse.

“Okay…” Grantaire frowns. He never knows where he stands with Montparnasse, exactly. Conversations feel like shifting sand. “Do you need something?” he asks.

Montparnasse scowls. “Fin, Pan, Demi and Cara,” he says.

Grantaire restrains himself from asking if Montparnasse would like to include any verbs in his sentence. “Are they alright?” he asks.

“They need somewhere safe. Somewhere they can get regular meals. Clothes. All that shit.”

Oh. “What about the others?” Grantaire asks.

Montparnasse’s scowl, if anything, deepens. “They don’t want those things.”

Grantaire struggles to make out the meaning between the lines. “You mean they don’t want to leave you?”

Montparnasse sneers. “No accounting for taste, I suppose.”

“Where are you going to go with them?”

“Back to Paris,” says Montparnasse, shrugging. “Need to collect Azelma.”

“You know you can always ask us, if you need anything. Money, or whatever.”

Montparnasse grimaces; it’s clear that asking Grantaire’s family for financial help is the last thing he’d consider doing.

“I’ve got plenty from those Jondrette assholes. Money isn’t a problem for me.”

“You hear that they’ve been arrested?” Grantaire asks.

“Mm, I’m sure they’ll be out soon enough. Some people, things just don’t stick to them.”

“So you want me to ask Valjean and Javert if they’re okay with taking in the kids?”

“Do you think they will?”

“They’ve already offered,” Grantaire says. “I’ll ask them for sure, but…they’ve already said they’d be happy to help in whatever way they’re needed. And we’ll be around to help, too. Of course. There’s room, and money. It’ll be fine.”

“Alright, fine.” Montparnasse shrugs. His expression is difficult to read—a layer of nonchalance and neutrality on a bedrock of discomfort.

Grantaire doesn’t imagine that Montparnasse will ever be comfortable with the idea of asking him for anything. Grantaire doesn’t imagine that Montparnasse likes to ask for things at all. There’s always the possibility the other party might say no, so why would he put himself in that position? 

“Let me know what they say,” Montparnasse says after a pause, and turns to go. 

Grantaire blurts out, “Wait!”

Montparnasse turns back slowly. Rain settles like a fine mist on their hair and shoulders—Grantaire feels it wet on his face.

“Why did you do it?” Grantaire asks. Maybe he shouldn’t ask, maybe he should just leave it be. But it’s a question that dogs him in every quiet moment he has: “Why did you come back for us?”

Montparnasse studies him. Grantaire doesn’t know what the expression is on his face.

“I don’t care about any of you,” Montparnasse says bluntly. “You’ve got nothing to do with me.”

Grantaire laughs. “Okay?”

Montparnasse narrows his eyes—not with anger or disdain, but as if he’s thinking.

“What’s the point of it going round and round?” he asks finally. “What’s the point? How does that benefit me? I don’t owe anything to anyone, no one’s ever helped me. But those kids don’t deserve that, either.”

“I understand why you helped the kids,” says Grantaire delicately. “You look out for your own, I get that. What I don’t understand is why you came back for us.”

Montparnasse stares at him. He looks, honestly, at a loss. “I don’t know,” he says simply. Then he grins, quicksilver. “Maybe they turned me soft. Softish.”

Grantaire grins. “Caring about people is a hard habit to shake, once you start. I’d know.”

Montparnasse’s gaze turns distant. “I watched you and the rest of your feathery little idiots, when we were younger. I thought all that lovey-dovey shit made you naive. Made you weak. Especially you. You more than anyone. You prioritised other people over yourself and it made you stupid, pathetic. It made you make bad choices.”

“Terrible choices,” Grantaire says quietly.

Montparnasse snorts.

“What changed?” Grantaire asks.

“You escaped,” Montparnasse says simply. “All of you. And you left me behind. Because I wasn’t one of your family, so you made a choice.”

“I’m—”

“I don’t care about your feelings,” Montparnasse says matter-of-factly, cutting him off. “I don’t give a shit about how sorry you feel.”

“Okay.”

“But it taught me something, you know. When people care about you, they’ll protect you. They won’t leave you behind. But if they don’t care, all bets are off. And I thought, damn, we thought we were so smart, all along. Fighting over scraps. But you lot—half of you were about as compatible with survival as a bunch of wet sponges. But you still made it out, because you looked out for each other. You didn’t have to have your guard up all the time. So when Azelma came along, and they started the whole wheel turning again—starving her, bullying her, making her small and weak, grinding her down to nothing...I stepped in. Because I thought maybe when she’s older, she’ll be useful. Maybe it’d be good to have someone on my side, just once.”


 


Grantaire laughs quietly. “Oh, I see where you went wrong.”

“She fucking imprinted on me. They all did! Nobody told me that if you give people food and stop them from getting hurt they’ll just follow you around indefinitely. No one told me that! I didn’t know how that shit worked!”

Grantaire laughs again, helplessly. The image of a pack of children following an increasingly disgruntled Montparnasse around like ducklings is too vivid not to.

“So,” says Grantaire tentatively. “You started caring about her?”

Montparnasse scowls. “I got used to zoning out the sound of her bitching in my ear all the time. It was like white noise. Weirdly relaxing.”

“I still don’t get why that made you—”

“Grantaire, I would peel the skin off of your fucking face if it kept those kids alive,” Montparnasse says calmly. “I’d do worse than that. A lot worse. Leave you behind in the Institute? That wouldn’t even blink on my fucking radar. Of course I’d leave you behind to protect them, you’re not my business or my priority. And if Barre or Elle or any of those dumb kids were in your position, and fucked about and stayed behind to try and get some other sucker out? Well, I’d kill them myself out of principle. I didn’t put in all that work to keep them breathing just for them to throw it away on somebody else.”

“But you didn’t leave me behind,” Grantaire points out. “When you had the choice, you came back.”

Montparnasse scowls and runs his hand through his hair. Grantaire gets the honest impression that Montparnasse doesn’t really know why he came back; that he doesn’t have the words for it.

“What would have been the point of leaving you?” Montparnasse asks, frustrated. “You die, or get eaten up by the Institute and never seen again, and the wheel keeps turning…Maybe they turn you back into their soldier, and you come and cause problems for me and mine in the future. If you put bad shit out into the world it just keeps rolling forwards and hitting you. But if you stop it...Sometimes things get better. I think that might be the only way things get better. And I’ll never admit to saying that on record, by the way, so don’t try and bring it up again.”

Grantaire snorts. “Alright.”

“So does that satisfy your curiosity?” Montparnasse asks snidely. “Am I free to leave?”

“Yeah,” says Grantaire, smiling. “My curiosity is satisfied.”

“Awesome, I’m out.”

And with that, Montparnasse turns on his heel and strides off towards the edge of the property.

“Thank you!” Grantaire calls after him. He thinks he means it more than anything he’s ever meant in his life.

“Go fuck yourself!” Montparnasse calls back cheerfully. And disappears behind a line of trees.

 

 &

Pan, Fin, Demi and Cara arrive in front of the house a few days later, without ceremony. Cara nervously rings the bell, and it’s Gavroche who answers the door. By the time he’s made it back to the kitchen, he has both twins hanging off of him, and Demi is talking a mile a minute about their adventures in London. If Montparnasse is around, he doesn’t make himself known.

The kids settle in pretty quickly.

They, like Grantaire’s family a decade previously, refuse to sleep in separate bedrooms, so the flock make up beds for them in the old den. They put on the movies they loved the most when they were twelve and newly introduced to the concept of fiction for fun. They dig out old game consoles and present the kids with armfulls of their favourite sweets. They take turns reading books out-loud, and do all the voices. They teach the kids how to play tag and hide-and-seek in the garden, and the-floor-is-lava throughout the house.

Bahorel and Feuilly, newly recovered from their concussions, take to throwing children around the house (and onto soft furnishings) with a disturbing zeal.

During the first week, they throw the kids a party. They order an obscene amount of pizza—the local pizza delivery place remembers them from their high school days, and when Grantaire places the order, the bored-sounding guy on the phone doesn’t bother to check if they really, truly, actually want twenty pizzas. He just drawls, “Same place as before?” and hangs up with what Grantaire can only imagine is (entirely justifiable) disgust.

They sit on the floor of the living room and eat pizza. At the start of the week, the kids had been stiff and awkward in large group settings, clustered in one corner of the room. Now they’re scattered throughout it. One twin is tucked under Gavroche’s arm, the other is wedged between Bahorel and Feuilly. Demi is perched on the arm of the chair next to Courfeyrac, talking animatedly, and Cara is talking to Cosette.

They have ice cream for dessert. Gavroche sets an incredible number of ice cream toppings on the floor, and the kids rise to the weirdest-while-still-being-tasty-ice-cream-combo challenge with feral glee.

Halfway through the party, while Courfeyrac is teaching the kids how to do the Macarena and the Floss to a volume of music that shakes the windows in their frames, Grantaire gets pulled into a conversation with Bahorel, Feuilly, Eponine and Jehan in the kitchen. When Grantaire joins them, Bahorel is handing something to Jehan.

“Are we plotting something?” Grantaire asks, jumping up on the kitchen counter next to Eponine.

“There’s always a plot,” says Feuilly seriously.

“A scheme,” agrees Grantaire.

“A conspiracy,” offers Eponine.

“A connivance?” ponders Jehan.

“A machination,” says Bahorel, looking surprised and thrilled by his own vocabulary.

“Holy shit,” says Feuilly.

“That’s a good one,” Grantaire concedes.

“Really hoisted yourself to your cognitive maximum there, Rel,” says Eponine, sounding impressed.

“Hey, Eponine,” says Grantaire. “I meant to ask—if I start a PI business in London, do you wanna work with me?” 

“Where’s my invite?” demands Bahorel.

Eponine squawks, “Hey, no! He asked me!”— 

—As Grantaire squints at him and asks, “Aren’t you a law student?”

“Oh yeah!” Bahorel says. “Aw, shit.”

“He forgets sometimes,” Feuilly informs them.

“But I want to be a private detective!” Bahorel whines. 

“Too bad,” Eponine sings. “Grantaire asked me. And I’d be great at that whole femme fatale thing.”

“You are fairly fatal,” says Grantaire.

“Exactly!”

“So you’d be keen to do it?”

“Hell yeah,” says Eponine. “It’s gotta be more fun than security patching for HSBC!”

“So is watching paint dry,” mutters Feuilly. 

Eponine aims a kick at him. 

“Does this mean you’re staying in London?” Jehan asks, looking hopeful. 

“Yeah,” says Grantaire. “I miss getting rained on for a solid two thirds of the year. You just can’t beat that London precipitation.” 

There’s a pause, and then Bahorel and Feuilly burst into a cacophony of cheers. They grab Grantaire and lift him so he’s awkwardly slung between the two of them, half upside down. They bounce around in rough synchrony and start to sing—bizarrely, and in complete unison—Bicycle Race by Queen. 

Grantaire squawks. He hears Jehan laugh and Eponine provide percussion with her hands and feet on the kitchen cupboards. By the time they’ve let him down, his head is spinning from the blood rushing to it, and he’s smiling so widely it hurts. 

“The category five hurricane! Reunited at last!” Bahorel crows. 

“Ah,” says Feuilly, miming wiping away a tear. “Can I be the one to tell Javert? I do so love to watch the light go out of his eyes.” 

“Be my guest,” Grantaire says, with a laugh. “Now, what was that you were saying about a cunning plan?” 

&

Later on, he finds Musichetta, Joly and Bossuet smoking weed on the back step of the house.

“You know we’re not in Paris anymore, right?” Grantaire says, leaning over them.

They crane their heads up in unison and beam.

“Grantaire!” exclaims Joly.

“Oh, it’s Grantaire,” says Bossuet happily to Musichetta. “How lovely.”

“It is lovely,” Musichetta agrees.

“Taire come sit with ussss,” Joly says. Bossuet and Joly reach out simultaneous hands and yank him down.

“Ooft,” says Grantaire, as he hits the ground.

“We’re smoking weed,” says Joly conspiratorially.

“I can smell that,” says Grantaire, amused. “Are you aware that our father is a cop?”

“He’s not a cop,” says Joly, scandalised. “He gave that up ages ago. He retired!”

“He had a redemption arc,” Bossuet muses, blowing smoke out over the garden. “We featured heavily in it.”

“He’s been watching Avatar again,” Musichetta informs Grantaire.

“Gotcha.”

“Do you want some?” Joly asks, waving his joint.

“Nah,” says Grantaire. “I’ve decided depressant drugs are probably bad for me! Who’da thunk it!”

“Wow,” says Joly.

“You know what that is?” Bossuet asks.

“Is it growth?” Grantaire asks drily—

—At the same time as Joly crows, “It’s GROWTH!”

Grantaire laughs, and Musichetta rests her head on Grantaire’s shoulder, linking their arms together.

“Hey,” says Grantaire. “How would you guys feel if I…moved back here? To London, I mean. I don’t mean you guys have to come—I know you have lives over in Paris and I don’t want to uproot you again. But I think I need to be here.”

“With Enjolras,” Joly says, teasingly.

“Yeah,” says Grantaire, grinning. “With Enjolras.” He’s decided he’s not going to be embarrassed anymore. He’s found the love of his life, his family support him, and life is shockingly, vibrantly good. What is there to be embarrassed about? He’s doing great. 

“Grantaire,” Bossuet begins, his eyes welling with tears.

“Uh oh,” says Grantaire.

Beside him, Musichetta snickers.

“We are so happy for you.” Bossuet sniffs. “You deserve all the happiness in the world!”

“Thank you,” says Grantaire, sincerely.

“You and Enjolras are perfect together and you always have been and I’m so glad you managed to work it out—” Here, he dissolves into sobs.

Joly pats Bossuet on the back absently and says to Grantaire, “We want to come back to London, too. Paris was fun, but it’s weird living so far away from everyone. We’re too important to each other. It’s not right for us not to share our lives. Also, Paris’s accessibility was…qu'est-ce que c'est…shit.”

Grantaire nods slowly. “Lots of families do live far apart,” he says, for the sake of argument. He doesn’t want them to feel forced into coming back for him, given that he was the reason they had to move in the first place.

Next to Grantaire, Musichetta shrugs. “That’s their choice, though. You know, Cosette and Marius, that was pretty much love at first sight. And you and Enjolras have always been headed for this. But for the rest of us…we’re not exactly in the dating scene. Traditional relationships are never going to work for us—not easily, and not like they do for other people. How do you trust someone enough to take your top off on the third date, when it could ruin your whole life? Your family’s lives? How do you explain to someone who expects to one day be your whole world that they’ll never be as important to you as your family?”

She shakes her head firmly. “No, we prioritise each other, we always have. If other people don’t know how to prioritise anyone other than their romantic partners then rest in fucking pieces, I guess. But I don’t want to live my life without these two idiots, or any of the rest of you, for that matter. I’m going to keep prioritising the people I love the most. The people who love me the most.”

In the background, Joly is still muttering to Bossuet: “One single elevator. That’s all I’m asking for. Nothing extreme, I don’t want to be charioted around in a golden litter like the Queen of fucking Sheba. One single moving platform between floors.” 

Grantaire slings his arms around Musichetta and Joly’s shoulders. On the other side of Joly, Bossuet leans into the hug too.

“So,” Grantaire says, smiling widely. “Where should we get a flat, then?”

&

Evening passes. Courfeyrac has bought sparklers for the kids, so they all traipse outside into the darkening garden, where they’ve already set out some buckets of water.

Enjolras sidles up to Grantaire and tucks their arms together, slipping his hand into Grantaire’s pocket. Grantaire’s heart leaps in exactly the same way as it does when he’s flying and he does a loop-the-loop.

“So you told the others you’re staying?” Enjolras asks quietly. His body is pressed close and warm along Grantaire’s side. 

“Mhmm,” says Grantaire, snuggling closer. 

“No takesie backsies now,” Enjolras says jokingly. “You know if you take off for Paris again, Eponine will absolutely ruin your credit score.” 

“Oh, I’m aware,” says Grantaire, chuckling. “She told me she’d hunt me down.” 

Enjolras snorts with laughter. 

Demi runs giggling past them, playing a game of tag with the twins, her sparkler streaming out behind her. 

“I’m so glad you’re staying,” Enjolras admits quietly, like he’s telling Grantaire a secret. 

“I’ll stay for as long as you’ll have me,” agrees Grantaire with a gentle smile.

“Forever, then,” says Enjolras seriously. His gaze feels like sunlight on Grantaire’s face. 

“Forever,” echoes Grantaire. He feels the warmth of it settle in his bones. 

The sparklers swirl and flash. The kids laugh. Above them, the stars are cold and bright and shockingly clear.

Across the garden, Bahorel grins and gives Grantaire a thumbs up.

Feuilly drops the last pair of noise-cancelling headphones onto the kids' heads.

Jehan screws earplugs into their own ears.

And Grantaire turns again towards Enjolras.

The night has a bite of cold in it. The tip of Enjolras’s nose is red, and there are two warm spots on his cheeks. His smile, when he looks at Grantaire, is soft and fond.

Grantaire pulls Enjolras in and kisses him, trying to convey, in the shape of their lips against each other, how much he loves him—a whole universe of love, all for him.

And the fireworks at the bottom of the garden explode all at once in a tumultuous burst of colour and sound.

Enjolras jumps, startled, then relaxes immediately under Grantaire’s calming hands.

In the background, there’s a chaos of noise: the kids shrieking with gleeful laughter, Bahorel and Feuilly guffawing, Javert smacking Bahorel around the head, Valjean squawking, “Patrin!” and Myriel exclaiming, “he’s got a concussion!” Musichetta, Joly, and Bossuet breaking into an impromptu, faltering rendition of La Marseillaise. The rest, volunteering their favourite types of fireworks—the ones that go boom versus the ones that go crackle, versus the silent falling light.

The kiss breaks, and Grantaire smiles. He can see the reflection of the cascading golden rain, like stars in Enjolras’s eyes.

Enjolras laughs quietly, and pulls him back in for another kiss.

Grantaire becomes aware of a feeling, right at the heart of himself—soft and warm and gentle as sand under his feet. He gives it a little push and realises: oh, it’s happiness.

I love and appreciate every comment I get :') If you had fun during this (checks notes) nearly 200k (!!!) of absolute nonsense I'd love if you dropped me a message! 

I live at starkey.tumblr.com <3