Title: The Inspector
Work ID: 33017956
Author: Javerts_high_heeled_boots
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert, Cosette Fauchelevent & Toussaint
Additional Tags: Canon Era, alternate universe - Javert helps Valjean raise Cosette (kind of), Little Cosette, soft javert, protective valjean, protective Javert, Secret Relationship, Period-Typical Homophobia, Period-Typical Racism, Romani Javert, Toussaint is a good nanny, Touch-Starved Javert, Fluff, slight angst, Not a lot though, mostly just really fluffy, cosette spies on her papa, Valjean and Javert think their slick, newsflash, they arent, C’mon men
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Cosette didn’t mind that she only had a father. Her Papa was the kindest, funniest, most loving person she knew. More than once, she was asked how she’d become a proper woman if she didn’t have a mother or sister to guide her. Her response was simply that she did; Tata Toussaint.

“Oh, is she your father’s sister,” asked a friend’s mother one day.

“No.”

“Your mother’s?”

“I don’t have a mother.”

“Is she a friend of your father’s?”

“She lives with us and take care of the house.”

“Oh…are their any other women in your house?”

“Yes, my Tata Toussaint.”

“Besides her? Does your father have a ‘friend’ of sorts? Perhaps a companion?”

“Papa doesn’t have many friends.”

The mom stopped asking after that.

It was true that her papa didn’t have many close friends, but he had a few. One of them was a man who she called Tonton Javert.

Tonton Javert was a police Inspector. He had long, dark hair and brown skin. He wasn’t very tall, and he looked rather feminine at times. Sometimes, he escorted Cosette to and from school. Papa invited him over for supper often, and he would spend some time with them afterwards; usually past Cosette’s bedtime. This made her wonder what they did, since she wasn’t their to listen to their stories and play pretend. Surely they couldn’t play with just two people!

—————————————————————————————

“Mama and Papa say that their anniversary is coming up.”

Mariam had been Cosette’s friend since the first day of kindergarten. They connected almost instantly, sharing lunch and conversation every day. Currently, they were playing with dolls in Mariam’s garden.

“Papa said he’s getting Mama a necklace, but I can’t tell her.”

“My Papa doesn’t have an anniversary,” acknowledged Cosette, making her doll shake hands with Miriam’s.

“Because you don’t have a mama.”

“Do you need one for an anniversary?”

“I don’t know.”

Before she could ask anything else, Miriam’s mother called from the kitchen to let them know that dinner was ready.

—————————————————————————————

Another time Cosette was asked about her family was after Javert dropped her off at another friend, Nancy’s, house. This time, the questions were directed more toward the Inspector.

“I thought your father was that tall man with the white hair,” asked Nancy’s father, Monsieur Bernard.

“He is.”

“Then who was that,” asked Madame Bernard, setting desert down on the table. Nancy instantly reached for a slice of the cake, unaware of her friend’s current interrogation.

“That’s my Tonton Javert.”

“He’s related to tour father,” snorted Monsieur Bernard, a look of confusion on his face. “How so? They look nothing alike!”

“He’s not related to my father, I just call him Tonton.”

“Well, who is he then? If not related to your father, how do you know him?”

“He’s my Papa’s friend.”

“Your father keeps friends like…that…around?”

“Like what?”

“Pierre,” mumbled Madame Bernard, giving her husband an odd look; similar to the kind Toussaint gave Cosette when she said something that could potentially be rude.

“What? I’m just asking! I mean, a man of his status- you would expect him to hang around those people!”

“Pierre, not now.”

“Tonton Javert is Papa’s best friend,” beamed Cosette, wondering if she perhaps didn’t make it clear before. “He has supper with us, and Papa and him take me to the park! We play pretend and tell stories as well!”

It was silent for a moment, Madame Bernard only replying with a kind smile.

“That sounds l-“

“So your father,” started Monsieur Bernard, cutting off his wife, “if close friends with a…let’s say ‘bohemian’? And this ‘bohemian’ has supper with you and your Papa?”

“Oh, would you cut it out,” hissed Madame Bernard, shooting her husband a glare.

“Marie, I’m simply asking! Why, I don’t want those ways rubbing off on our Nancy!”

“Ways,” questioned Cosette, only to be ignored by the couple.

“We don’t have to talk about this right now.”

“Darling, this girl is being raised by…by inverts!”

“Pierre!”

“I don’t want that kind of behavior being shown to Nancy!”

“Who said that they’re-“

“It’s going to rub off on this girl, and surely she’ll pass it on to our daughter-“ Monsieur Bernard turned to Cosette “-you tell your Papa and his ‘friend’ that we won’t be accepting your company anymore.”

“Pierre, that is enough! She’s a child!”

Cosette managed to slip out of the house while the arguing continued, tears running down her face. As she was running back home, she just so happens to bump into Tonton Javert.

“Cosette? I was just going to get y- why are you alone? It’s late!”

“I don’t like Nancy,” whimpered the girl, burying her face into the Inspector’s coat. He patted her hair gently, hushing her tears.

“What happened? Did she say something mean to you?”

“Her Papa was being mean to your and my Papa.”

“How so?”

“He called you a ‘bohemian’ and an ‘invert’,” sniffled Cosette, looking up with wet eyes and sticky cheeks. Javert’s mouth hung open as if he were going to say something. Instead, he simply pressed his lips into a thin line.

“You never mind them, Cosette. Let’s get you home, it’s long past your bed time.”

Carefully, he hoisted her into his shoulders, holding onto her ankles to make sure she stayed up. She flopped over, resting her arms atop his head. After a moment, she spoke again.

“What’s an invert?”

“Don’t mind that, he’s simply being a jerk.”

“Papa doesn’t like when I say that word.”

“Well, he’s not hear at the moment, so he won’t know if you said if. The same goes for tonight; your Papa won’t know anything that happened at Nancy’s house, ok? Pretend as if it never happened.”

“But it did!”

“I know, it’s just…sometimes it’s best not to tell people certain things. I don’t think your Papa would be particularly happy if he heard what happened tonight.”

Cosette nodded, eventually closing her eyes and falling asleep on her Tonton’s shoulders.

—————————————————————————————

“What’s an anniversary, Papa?”

Cosette, Papa and Toussaint were eating dinner when the question was asked.

“That depends,” started Papa, smiling up from his food. “There’s all kind of anniversaries; in what context are you using it?”

“When someone says that it’s their anniversary, what do they mean by that?”

“Ah, I see. That kind of anniversary is usually a special day celebrated between two people who are very close to one another. Some people celebrate them every year, others every couple of years! Why do you ask?”

“Miriam says that her Mama and Papa are celebrating their anniversary soon.”

“Isn’t that lovely,” added Toussaint, finishing her second plate of food.

“Tell them I said congratulations,” said Papa, going to take a sip of water.

“When’s your anniversary, Papa?”

“I don’t have one, dear.”

“What about you, Tata?”

“Oh, I never got around to that. Never cared for jt much either.”

“Well what about Tonton Javert’s?”

“He doesn’t have one either, Cosette.”

Valjean set down his glass, gazing out the window.

“Speaking of which, I believe he’s coming over for supper tomorrow.”

When Papa talked about Javert, he always got the same look on his face. His eyes would soften and he’d blush a bit. Toussaint called that his “Romeo” face, which Cosette didn’t understand. Suddenly, an idea clicked in her head.

“Do you wish you had an anniversary?”

“Sometimes- it doesn’t matter much. How would you like some deser-“

“You and Javert should have an anniversary!”

At that, Valjean whipped his head around, mouth gapping. A loud burst of laughter came from Toussaint, startling both of them.

“She said- she said you and-,” the woman could barely talk through her laughs. Eventually, she gave up trying and let herself double over, nearly in tears. Valjean turned back to Cosette, the same horrified look on his face.

“Cosette, why would you- it’s not like- we’re just-“

Just like Tata Toussaint, Papa couldn’t finish his sentence. He seemed to in shock. Cosette attempted to change the conversation, bringing up her day at school, but Toussaint continued to laugh.

—————————————————————————————

“You can’t say stuff like that to your father,” smirked Toussaint as she helped dress Cosette for bed.

“Why not?”

“You’ll give him a heart attack.”

“Did I say something wrong?”

“Not at all.”

“Then why did he look confused?”


“Your father and Javert have a special relationship,” started the older as she brushed the days knots from the girls hair. “They’re very close, and they care about each other very much. Perhaps you’re a bit to young to understand, but they like to keep their ‘friendship’ private.”

“How come?”

“Well, not everyone’s very nice when it comes to their relationship.”

“Really?”

“Not everyone, just some small minded people.”

“People with small heads?”

“No, dear- never mind it, just know that your father is perfectly happy with the way things are right now.”

—————————————————————————————

Papa had always told her it wasn’t nice to spy, but she just couldn’t help it.

It had been a few weeks since her and Toussaint’s talk, and yet she still didn’t understand. One night after Javert had eaten supper with them, Cosette tiptoed to the top of the staircase. Her Papa and Javert were having one of their private conversations. Surely it would hurt to just listen a bit.

For the most part, she couldn’t hear much. A few times, she heard some laughter. What were they laughing about? Were they playing a game? She wished to learn more, but if she walked down the staircase, surely they’d hear her.

After what felt like an eternity, the sound of footsteps leaving the living room hit her ears. She followed the steps, realizing that they were going to the garden. Once they were far enough so that the stair creeks wouldn’t give her mission away, Cosette stalked her way to the kitchen. She peaked out the open window to see her Papa and Javert at the garden gate. Papa was holding Javert’s hands in his. She cupped her ears to give a better listen to the conversation.

“Stay the night, won’t you?”

“You know I can’t, Jean.”

“Just for a bit, I’ll wake you before sunrise.”

“If I stay that late, then I won’t want you to wake me.”

“Then you don’t have to; surely you could afford a day off?”

“Jean,” laughed Javert, “you know I never take off. Come, I’ll see you tomorrow.”

“Tomorrow is just a few hours away, why not spend them here?”

Papa lifted Javert’s hands to his lips, kissing them softly.

“You’re insufferable.”

“You love me.”

“I do.”

From where she stood, Cosette could see the outline of a smile on her Papa’s face.

“You’ll be over tomorrow?”

“Same time as always.”

“And will you stay the night then?”

“…I’ll see if I can negotiate something.”

Both men smiled. Valjean lowered their hands, lacing his fingers with Javert’s.

“Travel safely, won’t you?”

“You worry too much.”

“Only because I love you.”

Gently, Valjean wrapped his arms around Javert’s waist, pulling him into an embrace.

“Sois en sécurité, mon amour.”

Their lips met in a kiss, both of their mouths curling into a smile. When they broke apart, Javert rested his hand upon Valjean’s cheek.

“I’ll see you tomorrow, love.”

“And I’ll see you.”

Cosette watched as her Papa opened the gate of the metal fence, allowing Tonton Javert to slip out into the night. The remainder of the couple stood their for a moment, watching as the other left. Eventually, he turned to head back inside. Cosette am aged to race up the stairs and into bed before her Papa even reached the back door.

—————————————————————————————

Cosette didn’t mind that she only had a father. She didn’t need a mother, and he didn’t need a wife. He was happy the way he was.

As time passed, Javert’s tittle quickly became “père Javert”, and eventually just a simple “père.”

She knew people wouldn’t always accept her family. She knew that they’d always be seen as odd. None of that mattered to her.

What mattered to her was that they were happy. She could care less about what others thought and said. Her family was perfect the way it was, and she wouldn’t want it any other way.