Title: A Promise of Relief
Work ID: 35623306
Author: Faerdhinen
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Orgasm Denial, Post-Seine, Bottom Jean Valjean, Top Javert, Anal Fingering, Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot, Not Beta Read
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

         These last few days have been pure and utter torture for Valjean. He was hard and on edge constantly and Javert was not helping in the slightest. In fact, the Inspector is making it a goal of his to drive him to utter insanity with his teasing and fleeting touches.

       Such as right now; They’re reading together in the parlor, Valjean a novel and Javert a newspaper. One is the perfect countenance of calmness while the other is a maelstrom of disarray. Try as he might, Valjean can not focus on the words. The letters swim on the paper, his cock is hard and aching within the confines of his drawers as Javert had not allowed him to touch himself in any way.

          Not even a graze was permitted. He could not remember what made him accept this offer as he knows that Javert did give him an option to back out. He had given in and accepted it with a smile because he could not reject Javert in any way shape or form. But now, now is a different matter entirely and he regrets his decision immensely.

          Because without a thought, Javert’s hand seeks his and he laces their fingers together. It’s just a friendly gesture, one that’s not meant to arouse another, but Valjean can not help the shivers that run down his spine following it. Tentatively, Valjean glances sideways to look at him only to find the Inspector looking not a hair out of place. The only difference is that now he’s holding his hand with his right hand instead of the newspaper. 

          But as he keeps looking, he sees the devilish smirk the man wears on his lips and Valjean whimpers at that. 

          Javert seems to be pleased at that as he lets out a chuckle, one that’s rare and warm and not full with derision as the one he’d let out at the end of the chase.

        Then, the man turns to face him. His eyes are still calm and composed as they’ve always been, but now there’s an unmistakable hunger in them. The predator is on the hunt once more, and now he has his prey in hand. The thought should not arouse such lust in him, but it does anyway.

        Valjean shudders at the gaze, his cock throbbing, staining his already stretched drawers with his filths. This is ridiculous. He is over sixty years old at this point, he has learned patience and chastity all throughout his life. But now here he sits unraveled and irrevocably aroused just with a glance and tender gesture from the man that was his jailer a lifetime ago.

       Then Javert moves from where he sits and undoes his drawers in one swift motion. The moment the warm air hits his tortured prick, Valjean makes an embarrassingly obscene moan. “You look and sound delightful.” Javert chuckles.

         He wonders how he looks right now. He’s sure that he’s as red as a beet, his lips are probably stained with his spit and swollen from how much he’s been biting at them to keep the noises in him. As the seconds pass with Javert making no other motions, he sets the book on the nightstand and waits.

         Then suddenly Javert is touching his cock, his fingers gentle, circling around the frenulum with such care that he did not think the man possessed. The touches become more surer with time and he finds Javert humming pleasantly at himself as he eyes his cock with such blatant lust that makes Valjean redden even further.

          Without even waiting for a reply, Javert pulls his drawers and trousers down fully and pushes his thighs upwards. “Hold them.” he instructs, his voice even and  somewhat giddy. 

         Valjean obeys wordlessly even as shame spreads through his body. He must’ve been such a sight, an old man in his sixties, cock fully hard, strong thighs hoisted up by his arms, his hole offered on a silver plate for inspection.

         Javert does not touch him for a long, long minute. He just kneels on the floor, looking at how he offers himself up to him so easily. That scrutinizing look had scared him then, but now it brings lust instead because for some reason, out of the many things in life, he, Jean Valjean himself, is the object of Javert’s affection.

        He spreads his legs wider at that realization as shivers run through him. Like this Javert can see how badly he’s trembling, like this he can see how desperate he is for his touches, and like this he can see his humiliation painted on his face. As Valjean lets out a breath he hasn’t realized been holding, Javert finally moves.

       Gingerly and inquisitive the inspector touches the rim of his hole, feeling the tender skin gives way immediately at the promise of pleasure. He hears him tuts a hum of appreciation and then said fingers now find themselves taking hold of his cock once more and takes the clear liquid that has been dripping from his member in hand.

        His shame flares even further at the realization that he will be breached by Javert’s fingers coated in his own slick. 

       “J-Javert.” he gasps, unsure of what he’s asking for himself.

      “Hush.” The deep baritone that belonged to Javert replies to him immediately and Valjean finds himself silenced in earnest, he trembles further as he holds the position in which Javert had ordered him to.

      Then, a finger finally penetrates him and his hole gives way easily enough. As shameful as it is, after how many nights he spent penetrated by Javert in his embrace, his body knows and relaxes under his ministrations. The finger only stretches him for the first ten seconds or so at first, but now it starts pushing in and out. Curling, twisting, turning and touching the place that makes his body sing with pleasure. 

       With every passing breath, the heat in his stomach increases, his cock throbs more incessantly and each time Javert touches him just  there , a spurt of clear liquid comes out. It will not take long like this, he will come just from a finger in his rear. He should feel ashamed at how quickly it will arrive, but really, he doesn’t. He’s been strung-up high and eager these past few days. It’s not surprising that relief should find him so easily.

       Javert keeps touching him thusly, occasionally looking up to doubtlessly relish in the fact how he has managed to turn him,  the Jean Valjean, Monsieur Madeleine, into a blubbering mess desperate for his own relief with a finger in his arse.

       Lost in his own reverie, Valjean did not realize when the fingers in him had turned into two. They’re now scissoring him open, touching his walls and making him wail with pleasure.

      But as the heat turns sharp and bright at the promise of orgasm, Javert pulls the fingers out of him in their entirety and gently lowers his legs down instead. There, he stands from where he kneels and looks down at him. “You paint such a gorgeous image, Jean.” 

       Valjean finds him staring at the man in disbelief, his mouth open and slack. Is this it? Will Javert leave him like this? Just on the verge of release, unsatisfied, and throbbing, and eager? His eyes burn with tears at the realization. “Javert? Sure– Surely you do not mean to leave me like this…?” his voice shakes as he forces the word out.

       Javert smiles at him then, gentle and serene, and kisses his cheek where tears are now falling past it, “Tonight. I will give you relief tonight. I promise.” 

       He repeats the word in his mind.  Tonight . 

       And though he can feel his cock throbbing once more and leaks down his thighs, he nods at his Inspector and keeps his hands from touching himself.


      Tonight. 
