Title: And the shapes that you drew may change beneath a different light
Work ID: 38284981
Author: magicpiano
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Fantasy, Alternate Universe - Magic, Witch Jean Valjean, Witch Hunter Javert, well former witch hunter, Witch Cosette Fauchelevent, Pre-Slash, Developing Relationship, Relationship Negotiation, respecting boundaries, Cosette Has The Brain Cell, Not Beta Read
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Moving in with a witch would require a lot of adapting for anyone but moving in with a witch when you have spent your whole adult life up to this point as a professional witch hunter was another level of complication.

Moving in with the specific witch you have been obsessively hunting for over 10 years though… well that was something else entirely.

For his part, Valjean was nice about it. As a matter of fact, he was nice about  everything , almost annoyingly so.

Valjean knew he had some reservations about magic and strived to limit using it in front of him, a level of respect for Javert’s boundaries that he never expected but he was learning nothing about Valjean was ever what he expected.

But even when he tried to hide it Valjean’s home was filled with magic if you knew where to look for it. The bread was always warm, even when it was 2 days old. The plants in the garden were never eaten by wildlife, the fire in the hearth burned even when it stormed all night and the flowers in the kitchen vase lived for months at a time. But there were other less obvious things too, things Javert couldn’t quite put into words but noticed none the less. The cottage felt  safe  in a way no other building Javert had ever lived in felt.

Valjean’s home was charming  in the most literal definition of the word. And Javert lived there. While Javert was busy trying to decide what to do with his life now that witch hunting wasn’t an ethical option, Valjean had invited his former hunter into his home to stay.

Here is the thing, magic was  supposed  to be inherently evil and the people who used it more so. The government said so, and that was why witch hunting as a profession existed, it was why Javert existed. Learning that this was not the truth was a hard pill to swallow and adjusting his world view would take a long time, but Javert was nothing if not determined.

Valjean was considerate of Javert’s aversion to magic, but after everything that Valjean had done for him, it was unfair to make the man adjust how he lived in his own home. The solution was simple: show Valjean that he was fine with magic now, even if that was somewhat a lie and it did still creep him out a bit. He had lived with uncomfortable situations before; he could do it again for the man who saved his life. He had applied his single-minded devotion into capturing witches in the past, and now he would apply it to learning to understand them.

The problem was, Valjean made literally no sense.

Javert could apologize, but Valjean would brush it off like those years of being chased were no big deal. He could try to help with the housework, but Valjean would just insist that he was a guest and needn’t do chores, especially chores the man could magically do with a snap of his fingers.

His daughter Cosette at least made sense. She didn’t like Javert, which was very fair and logical. Ironically this made her easier to talk to than her father.

“I wish to learn more about magic,” Javert said

Cosette gave him an incredulous look. “Why are you telling me this?”

“You are a witch,” Javert said as if that explained everything, and in his mind, it might as well have.

“Yes,” Cosette said slowly. “So is papa, who you live with.”

“I do not wish to bother him more than I already have,” Javert admitted. ‘Bother’ was probably an understatement considering Valjean had saved Javert’s life and was now letting him sleep in the guest room.

“So, you decide to bother me instead?” Cosette raised an eyebrow in question. “Why do you even want to learn about magic? Don’t you hate it?”

“Yes, but I am trying to work on that,” Javert admitted through gritted teeth. “Valjean avoids using magic around me, I suspect to make me more comfortable.”

“Does it work?”

 Yes , but Javert wasn’t going to admit that. “Irrelevant. He shouldn’t change how he lives for me.”

“My papa is kind, perhaps even too kind,” a small slightly sorrowful smile crossed Cosette’s face. “He would do anything to help a stranger.”

Considering Javert was living in the man’s home, he had noticed that. “That is why I need to better understand magic.”

Cosette rolled his eyes at him. “Papa would give anyone food, shelter and a new opportunity to make a life for themselves, but he wouldn’t live with just anyone for months on end.”

Considering Valjean was currently doing exactly that… “I do not understand what you are saying.”

“Of course, you don’t,” Cosette sighed. “You're special.  Different .”

“Meaning?”

“Meaning, for some reason, he wants you around, and he wants you to be comfortable. If you want to know about magic, ask him. He would be thrilled to share that part of himself with you.”

The way she said it made it sound easy, but in Javert’s experience nothing was ever easy, definitely not when it came to people. Especially when it came to  Valjean .

Javert found that words often meant nothing. He didn’t believe in platitudes, he was a man of action. Saying he wanted to understand magic was not enough, he had to actually do it. So perhaps he was making things more difficult on himself than they technically needed to be, but Javert would disagree. And practice was the best teacher.

The fire was both an accident and a surprise.

“It would appear that I have no magical ability,” Javert said sheepishly.

“I wouldn’t say that. Those flames were rather impressive! Especially for your first try,” Valjean was laughing as if sudden magic fires were normal for him. Although, he did raise a witch from age eight, so maybe they were. “Not sure how you did that with a gardening spell though.”

Javert tried to keep his face from heating up, he refused to be cowered into embarrassment. “I thought reading up on it would be a beneficial skill for someone living with a witch.”

“Oh,” Valjean’s shoulders slumped slightly. “I don’t use magic that often…”

“Exactly,” Javert said, hoping the selfless man would grasp the meaning behind Javert’s actions. He just wanted Valjean to be himself. “You don’t need to change yourself on my account.”

“I didn’t want to make you uncomfortable…” Valjean’s eyes darted away from Javert.

“Magic does make me nervous,” Javert admitted. “But it makes me nervous because I don’t  understand  it. If I knew more about it…” Javert didn’t want to get Valjean's hopes up, magic might always scare him, he has seen it used in such awful ways, but if Valjean was the one performing the spell… “Perhaps, I might feel differently.”

This seemed to convince Valjean, and a genuine smile crossed his face. “If you want to learn, I would be honored to teach you.” Then Valjean laughed, “But perhaps we should start with something a little simpler though.”

Later, Cosette laughed at Javert, not just for starting a fire but for not just taking her advice and talking to Valjean about this first.