Title: Blood, Sweat, and Tears
Work ID: 41718402
Author: orphan_account
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Minor or Background Relationship(s), Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy/Éponine Thénardier, Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables)
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Pirate, Pirates, inaccurate pirate terminology, Romani Javert, Romani Character, Gay Javert, Autistic Javert (Les Misérables), Javert has issues, Valjean Needs a Hug, Parent Valjean, Eventual Smut, Humor, Angst and Humor, Happy Ending, Sickfic, period typical drug use, Drug Use, Medicinal Drug Use, Period-Typical Racism, kind of, No Homophobia, because theyre pirates, Near Death Experiences, Javert's favourite medicine, love and laudanum, (sarcastic), Fever, Fever Dreams, perhaps, Javert doesn't do feelings, Javert is bad at feelings, Javert is an extension of the law, Valjean has grown attached to Javert
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 4/?


The smell of the sea, the salt, sweat and crime that came by the docks filtered into his nostrils and he exhaled with a scoff. Pirates, miscreants, vagrants and harlots were out as always. That wasn't his assignment though, atleast the latter three weren't his problem.


 


No, Javert reflected bitterly, pirates were perhaps his most pressing problem at the moment. Especially with rumors of the infamous La Madeleine coming to port. What a pleasant surprise, to be visited by an ex convict and current Pirate (it wasn't as if Valjean was even aware of Javert's presence in Montreuil-sur-mer but that was besides the point). Javert hummed in anticipation, to finally put a stop to the Pirate was going to be sweet. The vagrant had been recently tracked stealing from a spanish merchant ship, the crew seemingly docking in Montreuil to gamble their winnings or get piss drunk as celebration. Either way Javert would have them in custody of the navy in no time, and justice would be served.


 


At the very least, the rumors were true and La Madeleine certainly was in the port. Her design recognizable to Javert even in the dark. Although unsurprisingly, the ship was desolate. The careless con hadn't thought of the men (or man) who could be lurking when he decided to go and get tanked with his little pirate crew. Javert intended to take full advantage of this, approaching stealthily as a cat incase the crafty con did infact leave some kind of lookout, but it seemed the old villain was just as remiss as he'd thought.


 


If one had witnessed Javert climbing aboard La Madeleine, one might have described him as graceful. He boarded efficiently and silently, mindful of any movement that could make a disturbance, the tall shadow of a man effectively concealing himself in the shadows casted by both the ship and the clouds obscuring the moon. It was a pity there was no one aboard, reflected Javert. Yes it was far easier and more effective this way, but it was a shame he didn't get to see Valjean's look of shock and fear to be brought to justice when he boarded. That was fickle and petty though, so he stopped thinking about it and went to find a suitable hiding place.


 


If God existed, Javert doubted he cared for Javert. Javert was the bastard son of a gypsy whore and a pirate who left as quickly as he'd came, so why should he believe God had love for anyone like him? Either way, God did not seem to hear his prayers if he did love him, so Javert really had no one to pray to when he was found. 


 


Javert's plan was to hide aboard until the captain of the ship appeared, take him into custody, and hand him to the gendarmes to seal his fate. Somehow God seemed to love Valjean very much though, a lawbreaker and miscreant. That was unfathomable to the Lieutenant, so the conclusion was that Valjean was skilled at avoiding justice, he'd had much practice after all. Either way, if the malefactor had a knack for crime or was loved by God, he had caught Javert.


 


Javert had hidden on the main deck, stealthily and quietly enough that there was no way it could have overpowered the soft sounds of the lapping water or the creaks of the ship itself. Evidently, it was not enough because he'd been hauled away by an agitated and fearful Valjean. There was no use fighting it, it was probable that he'd die on the ship.


 


It wasn't as if Javert had a death wish, but he knew death was an all too real possibility after enough near death experiences. His superiors could find a replacement for him, maybe promote Rivette. Not even Valjean would be idiotic enough to ransom Javert. Javert was expendable, other than his undying loyalty and his background, there was nothing too exceptional about the Lieutenant. Javert was impressive, standing nearly two meters tall with a physique not to be scoffed at. The Lieutenant had a wealth of sailing knowledge along with dueling, he was intimidating. But being skilled or impressive does not equate to being invaluable. Javert was a tool of Justice, and once the sacrifice became more than the reward, Chabouillet and the rest of his superiors would exchange him for something more useful. That was his way of life, and he was resigned to his fate. 


 


Being resigned is far different than being cooperative though, and Valjean learned that the hard way. Of course Javert fought all the way, lashing out and striking the man unforgivably, but that was no match for super human strength and composure, the shorter man wrestling Javert into the ropes.


 


Of course he had used the martingale tie, the rope already rubbing his skin raw and setting an uncomfortable ache in his thighs. Groaning and complaining would not do him any favors though, so Javert sat quietly seething in his bonds. He was promptly discarded in one of the cells.


 

 

 


Valjean was slightly surprised. He'd seen Javert slinking in the darkness near the ship, and boarding of course, so he'd immediately set to disarming the tall man. But to Valjean's confusion, apart from the standard snarling and fighting, the younger Lieutenant seemed resigned. Or calm. But the fear of being sent back to the galleys, or execution, were too great. The pirate captain could not focus on his prisoner's situation, desperately hoping that his crew would return quickly.


Javert receives a visit and does not understand

Im not sure how long this work is going to be, but Im guessing maybe 5 chapters give or take


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


It hadn't even been a day (atleast he thought so) and Javert was already getting antsy. The cell had no windows whatsoever, so he could not keep track of time, but the Lieutenant could tell it hadn't been more than a few hours since he was subdued by Valjean. He had already started fidgeting in his bonds. This of course, only served to give him more pain and discomfort, but he was stubborn even if he knew no amount of squirming could free him from the tight grip of the martingale. His cell had been empty and cold since before he'd inhabited it. No one had come to speak to their intruder, the crew was back aboard though. It seemed that the 'mighty pirate' (Javert preferred the term villainous wretch) Jean Valjean didn't deign Javert worth a visit. It wasn't as though Javert could stand more than 5 seconds interacting with the con though, so he didn't care all too much.

Javert had heard Valjean's crew piling on to La Madeleine a few hours ago, yet the only sign of human life on the god forsaken ship were occasional bumps and footfalls. Either Valjean decided that his crew needn't know about his prisoner (unlikely), or the crew decided to leave Javert alone. Javert couldn't tell if it was out of pity or spite. It was probably spite.

Due to his forced solitary, it was overwhelmingly obvious when someone was approaching his cell. He shut his eyes tightly to try to stave off the impending headache. Then there was a knock on the bars. Who the fuck knocks on prison bars to be polite? Of fucking course it was Valjean, because who else would it be. 

Javert seethed with all the force he could muster, which was alot, and made eyecontact with the con waiting for his speech. Now would be the moment Javert would listen to Valjean declare all the wrong Javert had committed against him, and slit his throat. He was prepared. There was no reason he shouldn't be.

"Javert..?" The con looked as though he could not fathom why Javert would be on his ship, as if he were confused as to why Javert was tied up in the bowels of La Madeleine like a trussed up pig ready to roast.

Javert just stared into his eyes with unwavering composure, directing him to continue.

"Javert, why are you silent?"

Javert huffed an incredulous laugh, surely the old malefactor couldn't be this dense. Surely all these years of chasing and running were not for some daft man who did not see the clear progression of events here. Valjean would pull out a knife, threaten him a bit, maybe beat him half to death, and then slit his throat and throw him for shark bait.

"Why do you think, Valjean. Just get on with it already. I'm sure your crew are waiting for orders." He closed his eyes. Yes, this was the moment he'd start his little criminal rant. He'd start playing the victim right...now?

"Get on with what, Lieutenant?"

"Surely you can't be this daft Valjean. You will kill me."

Valjean gasped, as if it had never even crossed his mind, as if Javert was talking nonsense and Valjean could never do such a thing.

"Surely... Surely Javert you cannot think me capable of such a thing!"

Javert raised a brow. What on earth was the old bagnard playing at. It wouldn't fool Javert in any case, to try and make him feel at ease? It was ludicrous and didn't serve a purpose. Of course Valjean could stab him. It was perfectly manageable, especially for someone of Valjean's strength to overpower him and slit Javert's throat. 

"Oh. Oh Javert no. Im not..." he muttered a few unsavory expletives, as he apparently really couldn't even entertain the thought of even laying hand on the other man. 

The older of the two sighed, making his way across the room to Javert. Javert tensed at the proximity, suspicious of anything in relation to Jean Valjean for good reason, but the bagnard seemed to pay no heed to this and kneeled down to grasp the rope around Javert's neck. Ah. This was how he was fated to die then. Strangled humiliatingly in a martingale, to be thrown overboard and forgotten. Fitting for a man of Javert's past.

But Valjean was untying him. Valjean was undoing his bonds and allowing him up. The tall lieutenant was so dumbstruck that he couldn't even think to attack the con before he exited the cell. 

"I do apologize for keeping you in those uncomfortable bonds all night, Javert." The older man turned to leave, seemingly not even hearing Javert when he tried haltingly to understand what had possessed the man. Surely he did not mean to keep Javert alive did he? Javert was not some old dog to be kept in a cage waiting for interaction. He was not.

He sat down on the vile wooden floor of the cell, stroking and trying to sooth the aching red marks in his wrists. Somehow this, along with the exhaustion of capture, caused his exhaustion to take over and sink him into blissful oblivion.

----

Javert noted, bemused and offended, that Valjean made sure to visit him often. Made sure to check for injuries and give him food, as if he was not just a waste of resources. Surely Valjean knew that Javert would not submit to him because of this. Surely the daft man knew, so why on earth was he keeping Javert alive. There was no point. All Javert would do was drain their supplies, and there was no way he was doing active work for them, so what could possibly be the point?

It would be more efficient (and perhaps satisfying) to kill him. But no, Javert had asked many times and as much as Javert was suspicious, he wasn't stupid. Valjean wasn't lying. Valjean also said that he had no motive or hidden plan, but Javert was not that far gone as to believe everything the man said. 

Javert heard the familiar sound of footsteps to his cell once again, getting prepared for another migraine. Yet Valjean's steps sounded lighter, lacking his distinctive limp and the obvious weight and power in his steps. Surely it was not strange to have memorised Valjean's footfalls, it was important to commit many factors of a criminal to memory.

Javert stiffened at the steps coming closer, knowing it was not the ex con at his door. Valjean may have refrained from violence, but that was certainly not to say that his little crew were so mercifully inclined.

The man who entered the room looked like shit. Maybe even worse than Javert himself. Sure, Javert had not been bathed in a few days and he certainly was not allowed anywhere near a razor, but the man at the door somehow looked worse. He had tangled black curly hair, deep bags under his eyes, a high flush on his cheeks that could only come from drunkenness, and he barely even managed to walk into the room. 

The stumbling man made his way over to the cell, sitting down in an unceremonious heap in front of the bars. 

"what'cha doin in here mate?" The man slurred out. Javert was lucky he had spent his life aboard ships with drunkards and had to deal with them often, otherwise he would not have a clue what the young man had said. He still wasn't even sure that the boy had said that.

"What does it look like? Im sitting. Not like I can do much else." Javert stated matter-of-factly. The cold reply somehow did nothing to dissuade the boy though, and he grinned. 

"well d'ya want something to do?" He said it as an offer, and Javert sneered at the man. It was not as if he had ever given into the temptation of drink, and he was not about to start. The idea of drunkenness disgusted Javert anyhow, being reduced to such a pitiful state was almost unthinkable.

"No."

"suit y'self-" He took a swig out of a bottle that came seemingly out of nowhere.

"Name's Grantaire," He slurred, unprompted, "call me R though, will you?" Javert bowed his head, not caring to interact to the young alcoholic.

"I won't call you anything." After that, Javert could tune out any responses or prompts that the drunk man could spit out, until he finally gave up and stormed out of the cells. It would have looked more angry and less pitiful if he hadn't stumbled the whole way, Javert thought.

A wild Grantaire appears! he is very drunk so we dont get to see his usual bitch self but I hope you liked this chapter.

Javert has a nice meal!

There is no way in hell I am getting this done in 5 chapters, please ignore the last chapter notes, but I hope you enjoy!


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


At some point, Valjean's visits had become commonplace and familiar. This was not a good thing. Honestly it should be horrifying, Javert thinks humourlessly, but somehow he can't find it in him to hate the visits. It's not as if he thinks good of the con, it would be a cold day in hell before that ever happened, but he needed the human interaction right? right. That was all.

It wasn't as if the visits were even that interesting, truth be told. Valjean would come in, give him food which was nicer than he had ever had (undoubtedly far too nice for a prisoner that's for sure), maybe make a few comments and attempt to ply Javert's mouth open to conversation, and go on his merry way. It would be awfully ineffective if only Valjean would stop being so goddamn kind and generous and fucking gentle. It made Javert almost sick to think of. He happened to keep Javert updated on the date, the time, the weather, and all matter of other things Javert didn't listen to. Javert could parse that he'd been on the ship for a week. 

Somehow, Javert was unprepared for their meeting. Their stilted one-sided 'conversations' were semi regular and easy to predict, but Javert was still startled out of his reverie by the shy (fuck, Valjean shouldn't be shy, it's his goddamn ship) knocking on the bars. He immediately adopted his usual ramrod straight posture, but Valjean had already seen him vulnerable. Javert sneered at his own weakness.

"Hello Javert, I've brought you lunch."

"hm." Javert would say something cutting, hurtful to the man, but more often than not the convict 'saint' would simply glide over it. If he didn't, one would probably compare his likeness to that of a kicked puppy. For some odd reason Javert would feel a tinge of guilt. Surely that was not normal.

When Javert caught sight of the food presented to him, he gawked.

"What on earth is that, Valjean-"

"Is it not to your liking Javert? I could always-"

"What are you doing giving a damn prisoner this Valjean?" He looked at the con as if he'd grown two heads, he may aswell have, "God knows what this shit costs- are you fucking insane? I should not be costing you money. Surely there is nothing to gain from this little endeavor of yours."

Valjean looked dumbstruck, and Javert only realised slowly that his little speach was the most he'd gotten out of Javert in a week. "I'm glad it is to your liking..?" Valjean said haltingly, still evidently recovering from his little outburst.

But before Javert could even begin to protest, Valjean continued. "I do not wish you to be uncomfortable, Javert, I do not wish to treat you as a prisoner. You should not be concerned about the cost of this anyways, simply eat my friend." His voice made it clear there was no room for argument, Javert would eat the sickeningly expensive food presented to him. He would no doubt complain and sulk all the way though.

He would complain and sulk, infact, if someone had not burst through the door to the cells at that precise moment. 

"Captain! We have an issue. It seems the Spaniards did not take our little raid kindly." The boy had to be no more than twenty three years old, but he held an air of naive authority. The boy's gold hair was a stark contrast to the young drunk's black hair behind him (Grantaire, he recalled). Complete opposites, he reflected.

Valjean gritted his teeth, but didn't complain, simply gave a concerned look Javert's way and looked as if he were about to respond before the sickening crunch of a cannon impact interrupted their little talk. Ah, so Javert would not meet his end to Valjean's hand, not even in the midst of battle, but at the hand of the Spanish. The Spaniards who had no knowledge of him, an unfortunate mix up due to a night of lurking by the docks. How fun.

Javert simply sat and ate what was given to him at that point, the heat of battle above and around him muted and muffled. A last meal, he thought, amused. He was resigned, and unsurprised, when a canon ball impacted his side of the ship. 

 

Everything was sickening crunching of wood and the pain of misplaced bones for however long, then darkness. Purgatory then? This pain could only exist in hell, but it was not an overpowering feeling of dispair, or anger, or whatever else encompassing him. He was dead, no doubt. But dead men did not have to put thought on weather they were in purgatory or hell, dead men also were certainly not hauled out of wreckage by a worried Valjean. Dead men were not deposited in the Captain's cabin, let alone prisoners.

Ah, an opening to write about period typical drug use and sickfics, along with fever! Strap in folks <3

Javert regains consciousness and both Valjean and Javert think about how rediculous their predicament is

so sorry for the long wait! I origionally had a chapter written out but it was deleted, so I've only just gotten around to re-writing this chapter! hope you enjoy

There was no sensation in the purgatory Javert was in, other than an all-encompassing, rolling heat. Javert was floating in a sea of fever and distant ache that could not be attributed to hell, purgatory, and certainly not heaven. So, he had to be living then? How wonderful. Javert detachedly recognised that he was set to recover in Valjean’s cabin, and if he’d had the lucidity to rebuke that impossible pirate, he would shout at him for his undeniable idiocy and lack of self-preservation for hours on end. What a queer idea! How ridiculous it was that Javert was to take up so much space, so much effort, so much money as if he would not take the first opportunity to hand in Valjean to be sent back to the galleys. It was frankly ridiculous that he even cared how much money Valjean decided to spend on him. Of course, these were not fully thought-out ideas in Javert’s mind, they barely even counted as wry half-thoughts. 

Valjean was undoubtedly worried about the naval officer. He surely had no reason to be, the man was intent on having him behind bars, but nonetheless he was. Valjean had took to sleeping at his own bedside, the new occupant of his cabin taking up too much bed space for sharing the bed to even be plausible. It had been a week since Javert’s run in with a Spanish cannon ball, a week of Valjean starting in his chair from Javert’s feverish mutterings, and the man was slowly improving. 

“Captain, why are you so concerned over him? Is he not more trouble than he’s worth?” 

Valjean startled violently at the voice of Enjolras, internally chastising himself for becoming so complacent in the awareness of his surroundings. He did not really have an answer for why he cared so much about Javert’s survival, but he knew that he would not or could not let the naval officer die because of their enemies. But was Javert not also one of his enemies? Valjean could not say. The man only did his duty, following his job description to the letter, he had not personally wronged Valjean or went beyond what his duty called for. Was it accurate to describe Javert as an enemy? It seemed that the boy had understood he was not going to receive an answer from Valjean, so he left the cabin to let his captain stew in his thoughts.

Javert, despite being undoubtedly indisposed due to his fever, somehow understood the unanswered question the boy had proposed. It seemed neither him nor Valjean understood why and Javert was in no state of mind to attempt to unravel that ball of yarn. It seemed that although he was weak and still recovering, he could in fact attempt to wake from his fevered dreams. From the blackness, he tried to account for all his limbs. He was in no state to move his aching appendages, but he at least knew that he’d lost no body parts. He would not have to retire prematurely, then. That alone had given the man a stifling headache, but he was determined to regain consciousness. He doggedly endeavoured to gain control of the muscles in his face, first clenching the muscles in a scowl his muscles were well used to. He then groggily blinked as if he was seeing everything through a thick fog. Valjean seemed to take notice of his efforts, saying something Javert could barely hear before retrieving a cup filled with water. Javert prepared to tell Valjean a few choice words about how he felt for the water, but all that emerged from his throat was an inarticulate groan before the soothing coolness ran down Javert’s impossibly dry throat. Having no option other than to gulp down the proffered water, he drank until the cup was empty before opening his eyes to what was undoubtedly the weariest man he had ever lay his eyes upon. 

Valjean was haggard. There was no other way to describe the jumpy and plainly tired man before him (or rather over him). He had clearly not had a good night’s sleep for the time Javert had been unconscious, and he seemed about a decade older for it. Javert could feel something akin to pity for the con working up from his breast, but he quickly squashed it down without hesitation. Javert did not feel pity, he was an officer of the law! Naval officers did not feel pity, especially not for those they work to put behind bars. There was still undeniable pity, or sympathy, or whatever he was feeling no matter how hard he tried to push it away.
“How are you feeling, Javert? Do you need more water?” Valjean was fitting about him like a nervous maid, so Javert just groaned again and croaked out a ‘no’. His usual deep voice gruff due to lack of use and grating unpleasantly in his own ears from how alien it sounded. There was nothing to do about it, however he wanted to, so he simply winced and settled back into the soft sheets of Valjean’s bed.

It was mortifying, to be forced to recover in that man’s bed. Valjean attempted to feed him and keep him occupied in his moment of awareness, and Javert could not bring himself to grumble about it. It seemed that Javert had become soft. Was he even fit for work at that point? To be coddled in such a way, it was humiliating! Valjean had decided it would be a good idea to read poetry to him of all things, and as he had nothing else to do, he could only stew in Valjean’s voice as he read something ridiculous about love or perhaps nature. It was fitting that Valjean would kill him via poetry, he apparently attracted all manners of humiliation when it came to Valjean.