Title: But Some of Us Gaze at the Stars
Work ID: 37874527
Author: jaythenerdkid
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Slow Burn, Enemies to Friends to Lovers, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Alternate Universe - Everyone Lives/Nobody Dies, Javert's Confused Boner, Other Additional Tags to Be Added, no betas we die like barricade babes
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

Summer comes to the bayou earlier and earlier every year. The heaviness in the air slows life almost to a standstill; men unbutton their collars and loosen their ties by ten in the morning; women either eschew makeup entirely or powder their faces continuously, little clouds springing from the puffs and seeming to melt into the summer stickiness; children discard shoes and hats and seek the shadiest parts of the playground, out of the worst of the heat. Everything seems like too much effort during the day, when the sun beats down hardest and a haze of humidity rises from creeks and marshes, almost too thick to breathe; instead, life waits until dusk to stutter back to life on patios and sidewalks under watery yellow streetlights clouded with moths, or overlooking the lightning bugs flickering along the banks of rivers and lakes.

The deep night over the bayou hides more sinister activity, even as it brings relief from the heat. Away from the lights of the street-side cafes and the laughing crowds spilling into and out of blues clubs and restaurants, smugglers and poachers navigate by starlight; thieves slink down alleys and back streets, clinging to the shadows like muck; hard-eyed men lurk in dark corners, doling out pills and powders. Unlucky gamblers, their faces drawn and lined, lose the last of their pay to video poker machines in rinky-dink diners.

In one such nameless establishment, off-duty cops sit side by side with the felons they chase on barstools sticky with sweat and syrup residue, licking grease off their fingers and sipping from tall glasses of iced sweet tea or lemonade. At the end of the bar, a surly figure sits ramrod straight on the rickety stool, still dressed in navy suit jacket and tie, standing out like a poppy in a field of weeds amongst drooping salarymen and oil rig workers on shore leave, worn sleeves rolled up past their elbows. The suited man slices into links of sausage and biscuits slathered in white gravy with a methodical precision that seems wrong in such informal company. His face is in shadow, but there is nonetheless a wolfish aspect about it: something of the hunter, incongruous against the neat suit and tie, the careful movements of knife and fork.

At first glance, the man seems oblivious to the hubbub around him—the ragged chatter of the exhausted workmen, the raucous babble of the high school students crammed eight to a booth at the back of the diner, the calls of order up! from the kitchen, some country standard twanging from the jukebox near the door—but a careful observer, returning their glance to the lonely man on his barstool, might notice a brief flicker of the gaze in the direction of two cops swapping stories over black coffee, a minute twitch of the brow when one of the students launches breathlessly into an account of a house party. These subtle tells betray the man’s close attention to his surroundings, and his bearing betrays something of his station: not another cop, but rather the town’s stern and stoic assistant District Attorney. Although he must have a first name, it is either unknown to or forgotten by the townsfolk, who know him only as Javert.

Javert finishes his meal, pays, and leaves, answering the cheery farewells of the waitress at the till with a curt nod. His shoes, their polish somehow proof against street dust and swamp muck alike, click against the tiled floor of the diner and then thud against the concrete footpath outside. The heavy night air, redolent with the green scents of growing things and stagnant water and the industrial odours of gasoline and hot asphalt, seems hardly to weigh Javert down the way it does the few other evening stragglers on the footpath. His shadow lengthens and shrinks again as he passes beneath flickering streetlights and buzzing neon signs. Between puddles of light, the night gathers around his shoulders like a cape, thick and swirling.

An assistant DA in a sleepy bayou hamlet like Montreuil might choose to pass their days in relative ease and comfort, fishing or duck hunting or putting their way across the green with other like-minded fellows of leisure, and still satisfy the requirements of the post. Not so Javert, in his precisely-knotted ties and sober suit jackets and shiny shoes. The man has spent the last three years in Montreuil prosecuting pickpockets and murderers with equal fervour, and more often than not succeeding in having them sent to the state prison farm in Toulon, nicknamed the Alcatraz of the South, from which none ever escape. He performs this service neither with particular relish nor with any flickering of doubt, but rather with the calm steadfastness that comes from devotion to the law, a virtue learnt under the wing of Mr Chabouillet, his mentor in the Baton Rouge office of the Department of Justice. Javert is young for this post, barely in his thirties with the polish of law school not quite gone all to tarnish yet—but what better proving-ground than this, far enough from Baton Rouge to lend the appearance of independence but close enough to run if trouble comes calling? In the age of cell phones and fibre-optic internet connections, even this middle-of-nowhere town doesn’t seem so far from the big city.

Montreuil is, in almost every way, a perfect posting. Javert is, in almost every way, entirely satisfied with his professional life—and since he cultivates very little in the way of a personal life, he is almost entirely satisfied on that front as well. All he needs is a place to sleep—the little studio apartment, easy walking distance from the office, sparsely but adequately furnished, which Javert now enters, bending to remove his shoes as he crosses the threshold—and an appropriate amount of sleep and sustenance. Javert has no vices, save the filter-tipped cigarettes he allows himself at the conclusion of a successful trial; neither liquor nor human companionship hold any particular allure for him. In university and then at law school, surrounded by scions of wealthy families who could afford to retake failed courses and spend summers abroad, Javert had ignored such petty distractions and studied day and night to maintain his scholarships. If he had wanted for anything then, well, it had been out of his reach; certainly, he wants for almost nothing now.

That almost blares at him from the tiny television set as he turns it on to catch the last of the news. “Lastly,” a news anchor says, grinning into the camera, “Mayor Jean Valjean had a run-in with an unlikely group of admirers today after a town hall meeting. Valjean, who is running against Congressman C--- H------ in the third district, was surprised outside City Hall by members of SWOP, the Sex Workers Outreach Project, bearing pro-Valjean banners. Mayor Valjean has faced both criticism and praise for what some call a ‘crusade’ against prosecuting sex workers in Montreuil, and has promised to take that fight all the way to Washington if he’s elected later this year.”

Javert suppresses a growl (but not an eyeroll) and switches the TV off again. The screen hums as it powers down, loud in the silence of his apartment. His previous equanimity evaporates as the news anchor’s words—Valjean—all the way to Washington—elected later this year—echo unpleasantly in his mind.

It isn’t that he hates Jean Valjean, Javert thinks as he stands under the lukewarm spray of his showerhead, running his fingers through his hair to detangle it. Javert hates only unlawfulness and loves only justice; mere individuals cannot rouse him to such extremes of emotion. It is only that Javert seems to be the one person in all of Montreuil—maybe in all of Vermilion Parish—who doesn’t adore the man beyond any measure of reason or sense. To hear it told, Jean Valjean spends his days rescuing kittens from trees, helping little old ladies across the road and single-handedly ending world hunger between campaign photo ops, interviews with starry-eyed radio hosts, delivering pithy soundbites at council meetings and personally saving every beggar and ne’er-do-well in the parish from a life of grinding poverty. Now that the man is running for Congress, his insufferable salesman’s grin accosts Javert from every shop window and picket fence in town, while every local television station runs the man’s best bon mots on a seemingly endless loop.

Javert was born to a mother serving time for solicitation; he was raised in foster home after foster home, some cruel and some merely indifferent; he has seen what people are like when the lights are off and the cameras stop running, and nobody is as impossibly good a person as Jean Valjean. Everything from the megawatt smile to the merest hint of a Cajun burr warming his voice to the impeccably-tailored suits he wears is, Javert is sure, just a well-polished façade. Even the most irreproachable agents of justice are not as—as annoyingly perfect as Valjean appears to be. Ever since arriving in Montreuil three years prior, Javert has felt like the one child along the parade route who can see that the emperor wears no clothes.

Worst of all, Valjean seems completely unaware of Javert’s eminently reasonable wariness. As mayor, he treats every city employee like some combination of precocious ward and trusted confidant. The way the man smiles—like a patient teacher explaining things to a wayward student—as he runs roughshod over Javert’s prosecutorial agenda is infuriating. The idea of the man infecting Congress with his head-in-the-clouds ideas about forgiveness for the worst of the criminal element and charity for every beggar with a sob story is—it is not—it cannot be borne. It is patently ridiculous. Surely the electorate will come to their senses before it comes time to vote.

It is late, and Javert is a habitually early riser, but he tosses and turns in his narrow bed, unable to fall asleep. Suddenly, the heaviness in the air is like a vice around his chest, or like a noxious miasma clogging up his lungs. He throws his sheets off with a growl and switches on the tiny air conditioner. As its rattling hum fills the room and cold air turns the sweat on his brow clammy, Javert closes his eyes again and tries to banish from his mind’s eye the mental image of Mayor Valjean in Congress, pleading for the welfare of every wretch and miscreant in the nation without a thought for the operation of law or justice. The image is a vivid one and particularly unpleasant, and it lingers in his mind, distorting his dreams when sleep claims him at last.