Title: By the Gentlest Touch of All
Work ID: 31116020
Author: thenardiers
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Canon Era, Toulon Era, Madeleine Era, in flashback form at least, Suicide Attempt, Panic Attacks, Light to Moderate Gore Imagery, (there are no gory scenes Javert just has an overactive imagination), annoyances to lovers, Bickering, So much bickering, Fix-It, Angst with a Happy Ending, based on the original broadway cast, this valvert pair are a bit chaotic but they're trying, Same-Prompt Fic Challenge (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 6/8


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Give me the spy,” barked Jean Valjean, “and let me blow his brains out.”

He grabbed the rope around Javert’s neck and pulled him roughly to his feet. Javert did not resist. He kept his gaze downward as he was dragged away from the smoke and the blasts; in truth, he was too tired to stand straight or fight the noose that held him. Valjean pulled the rope more insistently and Javert’s numb legs slipped and staggered as he struggled to keep up, but he did not protest. He did not feel much of anything. His feelings did not matter here. 

His duty, however, always mattered. Ever the spy, he observed Valjean as the man shoved him towards a narrow alley at the end of the street (naturally - why should Javert be granted death in a place that had ever known light?). The other man’s posture was all brutish confidence and focus; his face betrayed no emotion, showed neither fear nor anger. Why should he fear? He had the man who had hounded him for years wound up on a tight leash that bit when he resisted. Why should he show anger, when any hint of passion might stain the image of paternal calm he had maintained so carefully for so long? The man had Javert right where he wanted him. He was surely in his element. Javert would have sneered at the thought were his lips not gummed together from thirst.

Valjean finally released his grip on the rope and pushed him against a wall of the alley - lightly, but they both knew the potential of the musculature that lurked beneath his uniform. Javert tried to sneer again at the thought, and this time his lips split into a lopsided grimace. Valjean so loved to dress respectably and smile and play the gentleman, didn’t he? The man so  desperately  wanted to believe that he could hide in plain sight; perhaps he had even tricked himself into believing it.

Valjean was speaking. When had he started? He spoke, and swayed, and the wall behind him swayed too. A hard hand clamped down on Javert’s shoulder but he shook it off sharply.

“Javert, it is I,” said Valjean.

Javert kept his gaze fixed on the impractically shiny buttons of Valjean’s uniform. The fabric was crisp and colourful and clearly infrequently used. It was a far cry from the uniform Javert had worn in the bagne, which had been washed and washed and patched and washed again until the blues faded to muddy, woolly grey. His eyes followed the neat seam along Valjean’s broad shoulder and he wondered vaguely how many other men he had shot in the course of his duty.

For the first time, he became aware of the tired slump of his own shoulders and the stiff angle of his neck. Valjean’s wrist flicked and another metallic object winked into existence. Its sharp blade glinted even in the murk of the alley.

“Javert, do you know me?” Valjean said, his tone quieter than before.

“I know you well enough.” Javert’s voice was an acerbic rasp, his tongue reluctant to part company with the roof of his mouth. “That knife suits you better.”

“Hush. Be still.”

The man’s rough fingers were under his chin now, somehow avoiding the rope that sank its teeth deeper into him with every motion, and tilting his head upwards with a surprisingly gentle grip. Javert immediately jerked out of his clutches and threw him a look of contempt. “Must you humiliate me?” he spat. “I suppose I have earned it.”

“Hush and be still, I said.” Those fingers took firm hold of his jaw now, leaving no room for disobedience. Javert furiously looked upwards and found a window high above. Anything was better to look at than that man’s wretched face. The convict could play his game, that was well, but Javert was damned if he was going to be forced to comply. He remembered how that face had looked cloaked in the grime of the bagne where he belonged; its current condition held no interest for him.

The knife pressed cold against his throat but he kept his gaze steady. The moon was reflecting in that dirty window with a ferocity that was almost blinding. How right it was, he thought as the cold metal began to move against him, that his life should both begin and end in filth.

The pain didn’t come. Valjean kept cutting and the rope’s chokehold disappeared. Javert dropped his gaze and found him slicing the rope that bound his wrists. “Stop,” he said, but his tongue mangled it into a startled grunt. One side of Valjean’s face was lit by wan moonlight, the other wreathed in shadow; together they formed a sinister mask of concentration.

The rope fell away but Javert stupidly kept his wrists clamped together. He finally found his tongue. “What are you doing?” 

Valjean straightened. “Get out of here.”

Javert stared.

“You are free to go.” Valjean indicated the alley. “The barricade is low enough to climb here. The soldiers will recognise one of their own, I am sure. You may take my coat if you feel unsafe showing yourself, but it may not fit-”

“What are you doing?” Javert snarled again, feeling his lips peel back over his teeth in a terrible grimace.

Valjean shushed him and placed a steadying hand on his shoulder. “I am freeing you, Javert,” he continued in a whisper. “I do not like to see an innocent man harmed for any reason. Go.”

Javert wanted to shake off the touch again but found himself unable. His face twitched uselessly. “I - I am not - if you think you can bargain-”

“Keep your voice down. There is no bargain. Here - I do not think I will make it out of this alive, but if I do… I live in the Rue Plumet under the name of Fauchelevent.” He smiled bitterly. “You will not lose track of me this time.”

Javert trembled. “Whatever trick this is-”

Valjean’s voice darkened and took on a dangerous edge. “Come now, have some common sense for once in your life. Clear out of here.” For a moment the years fell away and it was Jean Madeleine who held the knife.

“I’ll shout,” Javert said, his voice foreign to his own ears. He shook his head, a dog refusing a false master. “I’ll shout. I’ll summon them and get us both shot for our treachery.”

The shove to his arm was curt. “Nonsense. Be off with you.”

He let the momentum carry his stumbling feet to the end of the alley, which turned and allowed him a way out as promised. He looked back, he couldn’t help himself, and once more made eye contact with Valjean. The man nodded, then shouldered the rifle and fired a single bullet into the wall. Falling mortar wreathed him in a halo. Javert had never seen a more terrifying sight.

—

Javert went straight to the police station. There was safety and comfort in routine there. The commissary was out, as were most of the other policemen on this night - no orders, no orders to penetrate and clear the increasingly heavy ringing in his ears.

No, no - he could work, he could do his duty and write his report. That was proper. He sat at his desk and reached for pen and paper, ignoring the headache that was beginning to pound dully against his skull. He signed and dated the paper. It was important that the commissary know the full extent of the rebels’ setup, their names and plans and the size of their force -

His hand began to tremble and twitch and spatter ink on the page. The harder he willed himself to be still the shakier his writing became. The ropes, he reasoned, the ropes binding his wrists must have cut too deep and numbed his fingers. He cursed and threw down the pen. Useless! Freed only to be rendered useless!

No, no, his legs had not yet failed him. He stood and grasped for his coat and hat. It was not too late; he could still patrol, still do his duty, still have use and distract himself.

Javert marched down the street, stamping the pavement beneath him with unnecessary force. It was not a practical way to patrol and his legs would likely send in their complaints the next morning, but that was a long time away. His entire body was already complaining and rebelling; what did one extra twinge matter? The stamping grounded him and threaded his increasingly distracted mind back into some semblance of a working whole.

Get out of here, Valjean had rumbled, his voice phasing between that of the vicious criminal and the steely mayor. Javert growled at the memory. Was that his game? To snatch him from the jaws of death and take control over whether he lived or died, so that he may once more hold perverse power over the inspector he feared? He clenched his jaw so hard it ached. How dare Valjean assume that tone of command with him and pretend he held any sort of dignity or power? How dare he force Javert to recall that shared, shameful phase of both their lives? Javert ground his teeth together and recalled the very last time Valjean had dared to address him that way -

—

“For heaven’s sake, three days!” Valjean had cried. 

Valjean! What a grim pleasure, what a satisfaction to finally call that man that name without guilt or self-reproach! To rip away the facade! 

"Be quick now. Let’s not make a scene, Monsieur le Maire,” snarled Javert, tightening his grip on his cudgel. Oh, what a satisfaction to rend and bite that name to pieces and spit it back out with the loathing it deserved!

Valjean drew back, his gaze sharp and cold, posture hunched and wary. The gentle playfulness of good Mayor Madeleine had evaporated. “Three days, Javert. Then I’ll return and you may arrest me. You have my promise.”

“Do you think me mad?” hissed Javert, advancing.

Valjean - not the other name, Javert would never acknowledge that name again! - moved behind the bed where the dead woman lay. “Please, for the sake of a child! Three days -”

“Do you think me  insane?”

“Please, Inspector! I have a duty to this woman -”

“Then step forward! Do not cower behind her like a child!” Javert shrieked.

“Javert, I beg you -”

“I don’t care!” Javert lunged forward but Valjean did not flinch. “I do not care to listen, 24601! Not to you! Come with me, or-”

Valjean moved like a whip; he was one moment half-crouched by the bed, the next darting to a chair and smashing it to the floor with a harsh cry. A fountain of sawdust exploded between them. Javert scrambled to follow but found himself kept at arm’s length by a splintered chair leg that trembled violently. Valjean’s knuckles were white, his eyes aflame, and he tensed his jaw and bared his teeth. 

Javert fell into a defensive position and watched the sweat break out on Valjean's brow. His lip curled. “And here’s Jean the Jack,” he growled in something close to delight. “Are you going to kill me, Monsieur le Maire?”

“No.”

“Bash my brains in?”

Valjean’s face twitched with disgust. He lowered his weapon and straightened slowly, keeping his eyes fixed on Javert. The convict’s anger disappeared back into its genteel shell; when he spoke his voice was quiet. “Do not disturb me.”

Something in his tone made Javert stay back as Valjean leaned over the dead woman. What did it matter? There was nowhere for Valjean to run. Javert would lose nothing but time. He watched Valjean fold the woman’s thin arms over her chest, his broad brute hands deceivingly gentle. Then he straightened her bedcover and pressed a kiss to her brow. Javert twitched with anger at the sight. It was sheer mockery to maintain this gentlemanly facade even now! Who gained from this? Valjean had confessed! Let the undertaker tend to her! What times were these where thieves and whores and frauds could bid an inspector to stand and wait at their leisure? He found himself growling. “That’s enough. Come along.”

“I would advise you not to disturb me,” said Valjean, his head still lowered.

Javert strode forward and reached for his shoulder. “I said that’s enough!”

Valjean ducked too quickly and the edge of Javert’s hand slid off his coat, finding only air. Valjean grabbed Javert’s outstretched wrist and his rough fingers squeezed sharply. Javert's traitorous hand flexed open and sent his cudgel crashing to the floor, while his other hand found the chair leg and grasped hard enough to drive splinters into his flesh. “Drop it,” he hissed, struggling. 

Valjean did not. Javert fought to wrest the weapon away, keeping his eyes fixed on the older man’s weatherbeaten face. Valjean’s gaze was cold and empty now but his eyes were curiously red.

“I will warn you one more time,” he said, his voice barely audible. The fingers that had crushed Javert’s wrist now gripped tightly enough to hold him in place, but not hard enough to hurt.

"You don't intimidate me,” Javert panted, his voice thick and rough in his own ears.

Valjean released him and Javert staggered. The black tails of the mayor's coat flared as he turned on his heel. Did he really believe Javert would be too cowed to give chase? The inspector regained his balance and stumbled forward, his hands now clawing at Valjean’s shoulders. Valjean spun once more and Javert caught a glimpse of his truly terrible expression -

Something cracked against Javert's jaw and the room spiralled.  Does he think a punch will stop me?,  he thought, but then something else struck the back of his head with a metallic clang. Pain bloomed in his skull and he found himself on hands and knees with his nose an inch from the floorboards. The bed, he’d fallen against the damn bedframe. He tried to push himself upwards and white stars exploded in his vision. Up - up - he raised himself onto one unsteady foot and licked blood from his mouth. He fancied he could still hear footsteps. The bedframe had vanished in the sudden darkness that engulfed him and his ears roared like they contained an entire ocean - 

He chanced upon a memory and clung to it as he fell.

—

The exposed coastal climate of Toulon was always heavy and oppressive, seemingly designed to attack all of the senses at once. Sun, rain, snow, whipping winds laced with salt - Javert gritted his teeth and bore them all. Today the sun rained its usual blows down upon him as he marched the prisoner along the uneven path to the parole office. His collar was slick with sweat. He would have welcomed a breeze in the midst of today's choking humidity. What did reach them at best only blasted in more sea air, at worst assaulted him periodically with the stench of the prisoner walking before him.

“Keep moving,” he snapped, wrinkling his nose.

The prisoner kept his head low. His wrists were manacled and secured to his iron collar by a sturdy length of chain, but Javert didn’t take his eyes off the man, not for a moment. Years of hard labour had tautened and knotted the muscles of his wide back. He carried the strength gracelessly with a sullen attitude of resignation. Javert imagined that brute strength unchained, unrestrained, released upon a lawful world, and his lip curled with disgust. Such men did not belong outside of institutions like these.

Another foul gust made him taste bile so he fell into step next to the prisoner instead, still keeping his hard gaze on him. The parole office loomed ahead of them, an ugly grey structure not dissimilar to the cramped barracks Javert slept in between shifts. Javert knocked, was received by the guard on duty, and stiffly gestured for the prisoner to enter.

The prisoner sat on the heavy bench when directed. Javert fastened his chain to the wall. The man did not resist; what was the use, when there was another guard standing over them both and freedom was so near?

“They’re processing another one right now,” said the other guard, scratching his cheek with his baton. “There’s a delay because of some dispute over demerits. I’m not getting involved. They’ll call for 24601 when they’re ready.”

Javert nodded curtly and stood to attention. The other man disappeared into an office, allowing faint voices from the next room to echo into the holding cell for a moment. Javert fixed his gaze on 24601, who was sitting in a slumped attitude. The room was chilly and dark after the dusty glare of the sun. He licked the sweat from his upper lip and tightened his grip on his baton. 24601 shivered, his red garments clinging to him damply. Javert became aware of the chilled sweat on the back of his own neck.

“I’m thirsty,” the prisoner said after a while. His voice was hoarse. Javert ignored him, but he pressed on. "Guard, I'm thirsty."

“That is no concern of mine.” 

A little shake of his sunburned head now, twitches of the hands. “Been working all day in the heat. That sun. You felt it." There was a brief silence, and then he continued in a dreamy tone. "Would have had a mug of water by now if I wasn’t here. A mug of cold fresh water.” 

“Am I a maid to fetch and carry for you?”

The man said no more. Gradually his head sank into his hands, some kind of dull meditation coming over him. His filthy fingernails found a scar on the crown of his shorn head and picked at it listlessly. “What is the delay?” he asked after a while. 

Javert shifted and uncrossed his arms. “Perhaps the prisoner being paroled is delaying events because he  doesn’t know his place.” There was a brief moment of heavy silence. 

“I’m tired of waiting,” said the man, voice thicker now. 

Javert clenched his baton. “You will wait at the discretion of -” 

“Nineteen years! For a loaf of bread!” 

“You will wait for as long as the law demands,” Javert snapped.

There was a snap and clink of metal - the prisoner had made a short futile gesture of fury, terminated by the chain that connected his wrists to his collar. 

"And you will not threaten me, 24601!" 

“My name is  Jean Valjean!”  

Javert crossed the room and snapped the baton to the man’s jaw before the hoarse cry was finished; he felt his teeth click together painfully from the force of it. Javert drew the baton higher to tilt his chin upwards but 24601 stubbornly fought the pressure. His eyes were fixed on nothing, anything but Javert’s own. This close Javert could see the grease clinging to the weatherbeaten crevices of his face, count the wrinkled lines that crawled from under his bruised eyes.

“Do you demand anything else?” hissed Javert, his voice acidic. “Anything else you feel entitled to? Any other requests your parole overseer might care to hear?” 

The man’s hands twitched and flexed, no doubt picturing the violence he would have inflicted upon Javert given the chance, but he said nothing. Javert released him and returned to his position by the wall. He eyed the convict with disgust, but the man still did not raise his head, and Javert loathed him all the more for it.

The door at the other end of the room finally opened and the other guard appeared again. 24601 was unchained and led away…

—

…and Javert twitched awake, images of the sullen convict in chains mixing confusedly with the elegant mayor who moved like a tiger. He tried to sit up and continue the chase, but his body did not obey. His head felt like it was splitting in half and he screwed his eyes shut in protest. Jerkily, he raised a hand and reached for his scalp. A few moments’ probing uncovered a lump and a patch of hair that was wet and sticky. “Damn him,” he grunted. He didn’t need to look to know that his fingertips would be red.

His hand brushed against fabric and he opened his eyes. The bed he had struck was nowhere in sight, nor was the room he had collapsed in. His eyes found the familiar white ceiling trim above him - he was still in the mayor’s house, at least. Perhaps he had staggered into a different room and fallen onto - onto this low sofa, with his head propped up on - he prodded them, nonplussed - on a couple of soft cushions. There was a low table next to him. A large jug and a glass of water stood within arm's reach. He stared at them. 

Purely coincidental. Perhaps Madelei -  Valjean  had been sitting here before Javert’s arrival. He shuddered at the thought but found he couldn’t remove himself from the sofa quite yet. Yes, surely Javert had tried to continue the chase, too dazed to realise he was stumbling into the wrong room. He had likely sought out the nearest cushioned surface to collapse upon before he injured himself further, too insensible to retain any memory of the event or care that he was putting his boots on the upholstery. Yes, that explained it all. He nodded in satisfaction but the flashing lights in his vision made him wish he hadn’t.

He raked his teeth over his burst lip. The mayor was long gone, and Javert was not eager to embarrass himself further by staggering down the street like a newborn foal finding its legs. There would be no harm in remaining here until his head stopped spinning. After a moment’s consideration he reached for the water. There was a cloth napkin on the table too; he used it to wipe the dried blood from his chin. 

It occurred to him later that he should have used his own handkerchief, but something in that moment had made the napkin feel more intended for that purpose. Clearly he was not in his right mind. 

(That night, he found an extra twenty-franc piece in his pocket as he undressed. He would have thought it a hallucination but for its cold weight in his palm. After a minute of wild staring he put it away and decided simply not to think about it.)


My Tumblr


 

Title taken from Terry Pratchett's Going Postal: “I no longer fear the worst because, frankly, the worst has happened. And although I may not have always been a model citizen, finally I’ve been made to see the error of my ways. Not by the heavy hand of the law, but by the gentle touch of… well. By the gentlest touch of all.”

The barricades had fallen but Paris still seemed to hold its breath. Javert barely saw a soul as he prowled through the streets. The roads were silent, lamps were quelled, housefronts stood like great dark mausoleums. He wondered why - had the danger not passed? What else was there to fear? What other terrible event was the city awaiting?

He would normally have welcomed a solitary night with solid stone beneath his feet and the comforting gleam of the stars above. Tonight, though, he yearned for a struggle, a brawl, a chase. Anything to quell the agitated thoughts that still smouldered in the back of his mind.

At last he saw a furtive figure in the distance, its spine bent and head bowed in an uneasy attitude that set his nerves on edge. He followed cautiously, keeping his distance. The figure led him on a measured chase for a while, too slow and steady to activate his hunter’s instinct but demanding enough that he forgot his other cares for the moment. The figure dipped suddenly to the river and Javert leaped over a dividing wall, triumphant; there was nowhere to run now!

He stopped dead. There was no trace of the man. Javert looked to the river - could he have jumped in? - no, surely not. The small riverside corner ended in piles of discarded fishing tackle, driftwood, dead plants and mud that gave way wetly beneath his boots. There was nowhere for the man to hide.

No, no, there was something else. He circled the rusted grate, then fell upon it and cried out in frustration - locked! He put his face to it and peered through. Was that a faint glimmer in the darkness he detected, the slowly advancing echo of a footstep?

The sound was growing - someone approached! He withdrew and observed from a short distance. Presently a pale hand fumbled at the lock and Javert watched hungrily as a hunchbacked figure emerged. Before Javert’s eyes it split into two - one figure, thin and motionless, was laid on the ground; the other one, bulkier, crouched next to it. Neither resembled the shadow Javert had chased to the grate. Both were caked in mud.

Had he found a murderer and his victim? Something about the scene chafed against him. His eyes raked over the tableau again, hunting for the missing link. The larger figure had none of the nervous tension of the guilty man attempting to hide evidence, nor of the vengeful killer leering at his prey. Did he mean to loot him?  Javert watched as the man dipped his head meditatively and put a hand to his crown. After a moment he ran his nails over a certain spot in apparent agitation. There was a scar there, Javert knew. A terrible shudder tore through him at the thought.

Valjean! 

Javert was seized by two impulses, to pounce and to recoil; he trembled violently as though locked in combat with the man once again. Every fibre of him tensed and struggled against its neighbour. “Valjean,” he croaked. When had his voice deserted him?

Valjean’s head turned sharply. His lined face was once more smeared with dirt and sweat, his clothing again soiled and torn, but his gaze held Javert’s and burned ferociously as it never had in the bagne. “You again!” he cried, forcing himself to his feet, “I should have known!”

Come along, Javert wanted to bark in a tone equally as sharp, but all he could do was stare dumbly as Valjean heaved the other figure over his shoulder again.

Valjean stepped closer, his arm outstretched in a silent plea. “This boy needs a doctor, Javert. I need to bring him somewhere safe. Please, grant me one more hour.” 

Javert should have recoiled from the convict's hand, this hand that had known rusted fetters and forged documents and ill-gotten goods, this hand that had once punched Javert senseless. Javert did not recoil. He could think only of how gently it had gripped his chin a few hours prior. Finally he forced his tongue to move, but there was no bite to it. “Do you expect me to believe that? After everything you've done?”

“Please! I beg you! He took a blow to the head, but there is still time!”

Javert stared wildeyed at the boy and said nothing. His mind felt sluggish, as though he himself were wading through sucking mud.

Valjean shifted from foot to foot like a caged tiger. “In mercy’s name, if you’ve ever had a heart -”

“I do not care for mercy,” he growled, but the hand that held the cudgel remained limp at his side.

"Arrest me then, and put an end to it all. Or let me go about my business."

Javert trembled all the more and could not name why. As a youth he had watched men and women being put to the guillotine, had seen how sometimes the heads gnashed their teeth and rolled their eyes and the bodies clenched their fists long after the blade did its work. It seemed a cruel punishment that he should suffer the same loss of control without the mercy of execution first. 

Valjean’s expression was sharp and cold, but Javert could not tear his eyes away from the dying - dead? - young man. Valjean carried him so easily, ignoring the blood that trickled from the boy’s scalp and collected on his broad shoulder. If he would take such pains to save a suicidal revolutionary - Javert felt he was crawling through quicksand - why should that mercy not extend to others - to a foolhardy young inspector unconscious with a head wound? He saw himself in the boy's place now, his head lolling uselessly as he was gently laid down on the chaise in Montreuil-sur-Mer. Had Valjean tended to him with the same softness he had bestowed upon that boy? Upon the dead whore? Why not? He had been illogically gentle to Javert once already. Why not twice? His hand opened, unbidden, and his cudgel fell to the riverbank. 

"Go," he said through gritted teeth. 

Valjean stilled. His gaze was unreadable.

“Are you deficient in understanding? Take him!”

Valjean did not move. The despicable man! Was this how he had felt when Javert had refused to leave the barricade? Was he playing with Javert? Did he wish to be arrested after all? What was that hunted expression? Javert screwed his eyes shut, the better to not see it. “Get out of my sight,” he forced out, fingernails digging into his palms. He turned away to pace, realised he had nowhere to go, and angrily turned back. “You - you are unbearable. You torture me. Go away before I strike you.”

Valjean opened his mouth but Javert’s howl cut him off. 


 “Take the damn boy and get out of my sight!” 


—

Valjean's retreating feet left deep tracks in the mud of the riverbank. Javert could not bear to look at them and be reminded of his own guilt. He frantically scraped a couple away with the edge of his boot and stamped on the sludge until it was flat again. Was he destroying evidence? The commissary would surely hear of this. He shivered in terror and fled the scene.

He ran - he ran - he plunged down a random street, his act of disobedience snapping at his heels. It was too dark to see but he knew that he was tracking a guilty trail of mud for the police to follow. He found an intersection and took a hard left at random. It wasn't enough. They would follow, they would track his dirty footprints and find him wherever he ended up, and they would seize him and look upon his face and know his every disgraceful thought. He tore off his soiled boots and threw them over a wall and then he ran again.

Where was he running to? What was he running from? He did not know, did not want to stop and think and let the terrible guilt devour him. His lungs begged for mercy and his eyes streamed but still he ran. Valjean! The horrible man! Why couldn’t he have let Javert be, why did he have to goad and beg and dig and plead relentlessly until he found the one sprig of weak sentimentality that Javert had been unable to destroy! To be without mercy or compunction was perfection! To be unswayed, infallible, head and shoulders above all, able to sneer and be joyous in the knowledge that one was a divine extension of the arm of the law!

He fell against a shopfront like a drunkard and stayed there, gasping for breath as his vision darkened and narrowed. Fainting and vomiting seemed equally likely prospects. His stockinged feet screamed at him; why in God’s name had he discarded his only pair of boots? Did he think himself made of money? 

“Pull yourself together,” he snarled, but his breathlessness choked it to a whisper. Was he alone? He cast a quick glance around. The street opened up ahead and became hazy with the mist of the river. This was the bridge at - the street at - the street - he did not recognise this street, but he would remember in a moment, he was sure - he would identify the street in just a moment, once he caught his breath -

Valjean! Javert cursed him. What had changed, what had crumbled within Javert, to make him weaken and relent so fatally? Valjean had begged and implored him to no avail before. Javert had always held firm, even when Valjean threw pathetic pleas and excuses in his face - a suffering child, a request for water -

Javert flinched, unable to finish the thought. Memories that he had before been able to recall without opinion or emotion were suddenly too painful to touch. His mind had sprouted thorns. 

He had been long acquainted with shame; shame for who he was, what he was, a creeping dull weight that laid heavy upon his shoulders and made him bare his fangs and snarl in hatred. He had learned to live with it, to tame it, to hold it safely and point it outwards like a knife and take righteous aim at the world. This, though - shame for his deeds, personal shame for the things he had chosen to do? This was new and intimately painful. This smothered him. 

He realised he did not have his cudgel. The familiar smooth finish would have been a comfort - a comfort! A ragged whimper escaped him. A comfort to hold a weapon designed to beat the lowly into submission! Comfort in a club, a staff, a lash! A lash! He saw a convict kneeling before him, drenched in sunlight, gasping, repentant, pleading in a too-familiar voice as the whip relentlessly licked stripe after stripe onto his twitching back.

It was not the whip that did it, Javert thought, it was I. He could feel the hateful words on his lips now, spat between clenched teeth as though it were only yesterday:  and you will have twenty more, 28534, if you strike a guard again! Do not forget! 

Disgusting keening noises wrenched themselves from Javert’s mouth. They would not stop. He slowly sank to the ground and wrapped his arms over his head like a cowering child; after a moment’s internal struggle he bit his sleeve so that he might sob silently. That man from the memory was not Valjean, he pleaded, and one could not be certain that Javert had ever whipped him. Perhaps if he bargained hard enough his soul could be spared that particular weight.

Good God, did it matter? One did not spend nineteen years in the bagne without feeling the touch of a whip. And did the man in Javert's memory not bleed and suffer just the same? It had been Javert’s duty, and he had done it without passion or thought, meting out the precise amount of strikes to match the crime, the whistle and crack of it splitting the air, the merciless advance of justice and correction -

He screamed around the mouthful of fabric. Justice! How many had he beaten in the name of justice, how many had he bled - all of them - names, numbers, faces he had not cared to learn or remember, meaningless to him; how many of them carried the scars and cursed his name to this day? And outside of the bagne - he tore at his hair, good God, outside! - when Javert was unleashed on the world like a rabid mongrel, spitting bile, so much worse than the convicts he had scorned and sneered at! How many sobbing women and starving men had he seized in his claws and dragged to the station, cast into fetid cells with a blind eye and deaf ear and evil triumph licking at his rotten heart? Oh, God, he was the most evil of creatures!

And what of his cudgel? Where was the accursed thing? Had he left it on that wretched riverbank? He let out a manic bark of laughter. Yes, let it incriminate him as surely as his boots had! Maybe it pointed in the direction he had run! That was proper! Perhaps he should write up a report on his night of gross disobedience, handcuff himself and wait! Present himself to the station and suggest a suitable sentence!

And yet - 

And, yet -

Confessing his crime would also damn Valjean. 

The idea shocked him back to sanity. The great shaking sobs halted, leaving only his frightened gasps to fill the darkness. He sucked in a sharp breath and held it, tensing, but the next great crash of emotion did not come. No, no, he could not report Valjean. He could not - would not drag that man back into the flames, not after everything he had done. That would be the most grievous crime of all. 

He became suddenly aware of himself again and looked around, wiping his cheeks dry with shaky fingers. He was crouching on a dirty street with no hat, no shoes, no weapon, and his dignity in tatters. Embarrassment mingled with vulnerability and produced a distasteful offspring. Slowly he pushed himself to his feet, straightening his collar and plunging his hands into his pockets. Hair tickled his neck and curled over his shoulders; he must have pulled the ribbon from its queue in his moment of distress. He cast a speculative look at the ground but dismissed it. His pride had suffered enough tonight without scrabbling on hands and knees for a scrap of fabric.

He lifted his head with an imperiousness he did not feel and swept his gaze over the street around him. Instantly his mental map of Paris fell into place. There was the silhouette of the cathedral, there was the Seine, there was the street that would take him home to his bed. He nodded, relieved; the strange fit had passed. His reason was his own again. 

If only the night wasn’t so intolerably  quiet. He clicked his teeth but the sound wasn’t enough; on a whim he sought out the rumbling white noise of the river and walked to the bridge with measured step. He leaned on the railings and looked moodily at the frothing rapids far below. The roaring sound soothed him, somehow, and filled in the uncomfortable gaps in his mind that he didn’t presently want to inspect. He rubbed his temples. There was a knot in his hair; he worked it out between his fingers.

He wanted to go home. He didn't have a plan beyond that. 

Let the commissary find him in his bed and drag him to a hearing. That was proper, he had outlived his usefulness. Let him be punished in Valjean’s stead, punished twice for releasing a criminal and then refusing to give up his name. He held onto that thought, sinking his teeth into his lip in meditation. Yes, that could be his new duty. Let him suffer the lawful torment he had wrought on others all his adult life, let him suffer it tenfold. He could be the guard dog that circled that terrible angel Jean Valjean, absorbing every strike with barely a whimper. He could once again weaponise his spite and turn it on anyone who dared touch that man. 

Valjean, that irritating saviour of all, would surely not approve. Javert laughed bitterly and sank his head into his hands. What did he care what Jean Valjean thought of him? He would never know that Javert had gone to prison; he would continue to live comfortably with that daughter of his, unaware of… 

 I do not like to see an innocent man harmed,  Valjean had whispered, his hand heavy but so gentle on Javert’s shoulder, the sensation of it the only thing that had seemed real in that moment.  I do not like to see an innocent man harmed for any reason. 

A dizzying anxiety roiled through Javert and made his breath hitch. He was not innocent. He was not! It was wrong! Valjean insisted upon Javert’s innocence, which was a clear factual error; the law insisted upon Valjean’s guilt, which was an atrocity. Which should he bow to? He tore at his sideburns and tried to think logically - but there could be no logic to this, for Jean Valjean evaded logic. The legal system had raised Javert, clothed him, fed him and given him purpose. He owed everything to it; he was indebted for life, his loyalty was his payment. But Valjean had - had  cared for him. 

Javert felt that warm thumb brush his chin again; it provoked an unfamiliar flare of warm pain in his chest. He gasped in fright and sagged against the railings. Suddenly he  wanted, suddenly he desired things he could not name or understand. His flawed, foolish, forgotten heart reached out and begged for more. He wept again. The only witness was the river, which carried his tears away and said not a word. 

Oh, God, he could not bear it. He crumpled to his knees and pressed his fevered lips and brow to the cold metal railings but found no relief. Slowly he wrapped his fingers around them and imagined himself in prison. A life sentence of hard labour would be preferable to this torment. Let him sleep here, let him know the end of this suffering, let him die. He headbutted the metal in despair and saw stars.

Then he felt - he sensed - oh, surely he was going mad - he sensed eyes fixed on him from every direction. In every house, good people were twitching curtains and opening shutters and awaiting his decision. He sneaked a glance over his shoulder and saw figures flitting between glowing windows. Candlelight illuminated their shaven heads and iron collars. He couldn’t breathe. Desperately he looked away but their silhouettes remained burned into his vision, even when he looked back and found the windows dark and dead. The sky was also dark, the stars black - heaven had shuttered itself, locked the door, bolted the latch, and God peered through the keyhole in fear of him. 

The only other direction was down - down, down to the crashing vortex of water. He pressed his face to the bars so hard it hurt and stared down at the glittering black water. Perhaps - perhaps if he did one last thing, one last good thing, it might cancel out a little of the agony he had caused to so many - if he could remove evil from the world instead of pouring more in -

He stood jerkily and scrambled over the railing. His movements were disjointed and unreal, as though his spirit had half departed him already. The metal tore his trouser leg and scraped his shin. The sensation of blood running down his leg made him freeze. Would a watery grave be enough? Would his sins follow him even there?

Soft footsteps echoed to his right and his blood ran cold. One of the spectral convicts, tired of his indecision, had come to give him a push! Yes, he understood. He swung his other leg over the railing and thought he heard the footsteps pick up speed. He screwed his eyes shut, unable to face either the chilling vertigo of the drop or the horror of the spectre. Tonight had been an exercise in cowardice and weakness and shame; let it end the same way. The breeze chilled the tears on his cheeks and sent his coat flapping. He clutched the railings convulsively, he clenched his teeth, he rocked back and forth madly. He had never felt so alone. Let it end, let it end, let it end! He could not bear it! No man could be expected to bear this!

His numb fingers released their grip and he pitched forward. The wind howled in his ears.  Javert!  it cried, hoarse, near yet far all at once, its tone almost human. 

Javert had expected, as far as his tattered mind had been able to form a coherent thought about anything, that he would go straight to hell and burn for eternity. He did not fight the fire that licked at his lungs and rasped in his throat, nor the paralysing chill of the river that poured back into his belly. Let them consume him! Let it wash him away! 

At intervals he forced his eyes open and beheld unreal images, strange quirks of his imagination in which he found himself in a soft bed in an unknown room. He frowned in momentary confusion before slipping back into a shivering stupor. One day - did days pass here? - he woke to see a figure in white measuring out a spoonful of something. Another time he found a demon clutching his leg - he shouted and kicked it in the head. On another occasion he woke to find Jean Valjean in an armchair by his bedside, his saintly white head nodding in slumber as a red rosary slipped from his relaxed fingers. Javert stared at the apparition. Valjean was in his shirtsleeves; the undone cuffs revealed a peek at his brawny, scarred forearms. This  must  have been Javert’s personal hell. 

More days passed and he stole more small handfuls of wakefulness, a couple of hours at a time, and he realised with horror that he was very much alive. The events of the past fortnight slowly came into focus. Valjean had torn his limp form from the rapids, helped purge the Seine from his lungs, and dragged what remained of him to his home in the Rue Plumet.

Valjean - he would have cursed the name had he the energy or breath. Of course the man had extended his merciful hand one more time and caught Javert as he fell. Of course he had again chosen kindness over self-preservation and revenge. Of course he hired a doctor and had his housekeeper bring Javert meals while he recovered from his night of lunacy. It was more than his overstretched mind could handle. Javert recoiled from it and retreated back into slumber, aware for a brief moment of his loose hair curling against his face and neck before he sank once more.

In another moment of wheezing lucidity he found Valjean at his bedside again, this time awake and absorbed in a book. How many unseen hours had he spent sitting there like some kind of weatherbeaten guardian angel? Javert coughed slightly to clear his painful throat and the other man’s head immediately lifted. “Oh - good evening. Would you like some water?”

Javert shook his head slightly. He’d had quite enough of water for a lifetime. 

“Do you need anything else?”

He shook his head again. The bedcover had been peeled back and he noticed for the first time that his right shin and ankle were wrapped in a tight splint. His foot pointed out at an odd angle, but it did not trouble him.

Valjean followed his gaze. "The doctor did his best," he said quietly, in the tone one might take at a funeral, "but the height you fell from quite shattered your ankle. You also cracked some ribs, so please be careful if you feel inclined to move."

 I will move however much I like, Javert wanted to say, but the constriction in his chest produced only a pained grunt. Sleep was beginning to wrap its heavy arms around him again. He shifted against the pillow and a thought returned to him. "Would like to tie my hair," he croaked, struggling against the tired weight in his eyelids. 

"Of course. I'll find something for you." Valjean paused, then pressed on. "While you're awake, would you object to my staying here in the evenings? It is pleasant to have company when suffering, I think. Loneliness is - is not good for one's health."

Javert had slipped back into slumber before the sentence was finished, too drowsy to analyse the emotion in the other man's voice. 

—

More days melted past, marked only by the slow repetitive crawl of sunshine across the wall. The nurse came by day and Valjean visited by night. True to his word, he appeared one evening with a small case of silk ribbons - they were sturdy, practical, sober in colour, exactly the kind Javert liked to wear. Javert supposed he should be grateful that he hadn't picked some horrifying shade of yellow or other. 

"How much?" Javert had mumbled, forcing sluggish fingers to draw his hair back into a loose queue. 

Valjean had smiled gently. "Let's worry about that when you are well."

Javert was familiar with the effects of laudanum after a brief illness a few years prior, and he recognised the way it currently clouded his thoughts; it explained his lack of pain and his desire for sleep. He found he did not care. After his experience on the bridge, anything that caused a numbing effect was more than welcome. 

Valjean did not speak of Javert’s actions, either at the bridge or on any of the other occasions they had clashed, and Javert found himself unable to put a name to them either. Where did one start? Instead Valjean offered him books to pass the time, safe things about history and botany and geography, and Javert ground his teeth and accepted them. He welcomed anything that might distract from the bitter thoughts that were beginning to kick and roil in the back of his head again.  Wretch, wretch, wretch!, they snarled.

Valjean’s voice echoed in his head.  Give me the spy, and let me blow his brains out!  He again felt the rough force with which he had been handled, saw the cobblestones slipping past his staggering boots. Javert had felt so certain, so peaceful in that moment; he had known the script, had known his role was to follow and obey and die in disgrace. He laid down his book and massaged his itching eyes. His skin felt hot and dry with fever. It had been right to be executed as a spy, it had been orderly, and then Valjean had ruined it all and he had not known peace since. 

He should have cut off that train of thought where it stood but it was impossible, irresistible. His breath caught in his throat. Was there anything he could have done to make Valjean shoot him in that moment? Could he have wrested the rifle from his grasp, mortally cut himself with the bayonet? Could he have convinced the man that ending his existence was the most merciful option? Could he have goaded him into pulling the trigger? Valjean was not above the occasional flash of petty frustration - could Javert have provoked him in just the right way,  just the right way  to draw out the simmering fury that he had witnessed so long ago in Toulon and again in Montreuil?

His breathing grew ragged. Was this what Valjean had experienced every time they had met? Had his endless efforts to force a scrap of mercy from Javert felt this hopeless, this frustrating? Did Valjean crave Javert’s moments of weakness and humanity just as Javert yearned for his brief flashes of violence?  Only a fool would look for goodness within me,  Javert thought miserably,  but only a monster would seek hatred from him.  His vision suddenly blurred with tears.

Valjean’s voice again broke into his thoughts, but this time his tone was far gentler. “Javert? Are you well?”

Javert returned from his reverie with a jump. He was lying in bed with a book in his lap, but he could not remember the subject and his eyes were swimming too badly to make out the print. His head burned and ached. Valjean was sitting close by with a book of his own; the warm lamplight deepened the lines of his face and cast hints of gold across his white hair.

Javert despised the honest concern in his eyes. “Why are you doing this?” he groaned, pushing up the sleeves of his nightshirt in an effort to cool down. “Why did you save me?”

Valjean smiled that cautious, kind little smile he had always worn in Montreuil, but today it only irritated Javert. “For the same reason I helped you before. Because it is right.”

He shook his head. “You risked your life to save me,” he said, unable to stop his words from slurring together slightly. “After that, you could have - could have dropped me into a hospital and left me there. That would have been enough.”

“With the cholera outbreak, I thought it unwise-”

“Don’t give me that,” Javert snapped.

“You need to rest.”

“No.” Javert raised himself onto his elbows, grimacing at the pain that lanced through his skull, and pointed with a shaking finger. “Tell me. Tell me. Don’t dodge the damn question. Tell me why you’re keeping me here when you've had every opportunity to dispose of me like you should.”

Valjean’s smile had vanished. “You need to rest. You're raving.”

“I’m perfectly sane,” he rasped.

“You are unwell. Don’t talk any more, please, or Doctor Vigo will have my head.”

“You shouldn’t’ve called him.”

“The doctor? - Javert, you were dying.”

“You shouldn’t’ve.”

Javert had anticipated Valjean’s usual frustrated frown and pursed lips, but the flash of sorrow in his eyes was new. It made that awful unfamiliar pain claw at Javert’s chest again. “Don’t pity me,” he grunted, falling back onto the pillow. His gaze fell on his crooked leg and he felt a stab of self-pity. “I don’t deserve it. I’ll arrest you once this is done. I’ll destroy you. That's the thanks you’ll get for your  charity."

“I don't believe you,” said Valjean.

For a wild moment Javert wished to slap him. He was certainly too weak to clear the space between them and enact an attack, but he entertained the thought anyway. He stared wide-eyed at the other man and received only a cool gaze in return. When no suitable retort came to him he exhaled hard, feeling his nostrils flare, and folded his arms and pursed his lips. Valjean had ordered him not to talk - he would obey. 

Valjean visibly softened. "I'm sorry, Javert. I’m very sorry. That was beneath me. I know - I know that you did not go against your duty lightly. I didn't mean to insult you." 

Javert stuck out his lip pettishly and ignored him. Valjean gazed out of the window but his restless fidgeting returned. He massaged his creased brow and sank his hand into his hair, tugging at the white strands distractedly. Eventually he drew a long laboured breath. "I -"

“Shut up,” growled Javert, his voice cracking. “You neuter me. You turn me into a coward. Look at me. Look at me! You -”

Valjean looked up, his hair askew. “Javert -”

“- you force me to live against my will, you coddle me like a pet, and now you mock me for my weakness? Do you enjoy my torment? You are too much, 246 -”

“Don’t,” said Valjean, his voice barely audible.

Javert swallowed the rest of the barb, tasting bile. He thought his head might burst. “You will not silence me with a wave of your hand,” he hissed. “I am not - not a dog to stay at your heel, or a helpless child clinging to your coattails, desperate for a scrap of mercy -” Valjean’s head had sunk into his hands but Javert ploughed on, relentless. “Do you hear me, Valjean? Are you listening? Or are you too good to listen to the ravings of a mutt?”

Valjean did not move. “I am sorry,” he said hoarsely, his expression obscured by shadow. “I only wished to help.”

Javert bristled. “Get out of my sight.”

“I’m -”

“I do not wish to see you."

“Javert -”

“Leave.”

Valjean slowly made his way to his feet with lowered head and slumped shoulders, then turned away after a moment’s hesitation. Javert was reminded of the graceless way he had held himself in the bagne, only now far older and wearier with less certain step than before. He imagined lashes falling upon that venerable back and shuddered. Valjean did not look back as he left, nor did Javert call out for him. 

 Idiot, he berated himself once Valjean was gone,  allowing him to get under your skin once again. He irritably doused the lamp and threw himself back down with unnecessary force, grimacing at the stab of pain in his chest. Was there no way to counter the uncontrolled agitation he felt in Valjean’s presence? 

The darkness and silence soothed his fevered headache, at least. Gingerly he found himself grasping at his old training for guidance. When one was held captive with no chance of escape, it was most sensible to remain compliant and await either rescue or death. No rescue was coming, he thought bitterly. He had once again been swept up by a vanquishing force of revolution that recognised no law, no leader, upended everything dear to him, and did not care what happened to those caught beneath its wheels. It was useless to fight something so huge; he had been Valjean’s conquest from the first horrible moment the ropes had fallen away from his throat. Javert would have chosen gunfire and smoke and a shaking bayonet pressed between his shoulder blades again over his current captivity.

Let Valjean do as he wanted, then, and Javert would do his best not to care. Let him stay here for as long as was necessary to heal, and then slink out through the back door once he was able. After that - no, he would not think of that. One thing at a time. 

—

For the next while he complied with his training and made every effort to bow to his captors’ wishes. He suffered the doctor’s regular inspections of his leg and chest without a growl, was reasonably polite to the housekeeper, and bit his lip to stay quiet when Valjean sat by his bedside with his rosary. The idea that Valjean should pray for him remained ludicrous to him - but the distant look in the other man’s eye and the distracted way he fumbled the beads, too haphazard to be marking prayers, suggested that Javert was not the one truly occupying his thoughts.

And when Javert was alone -

The great cold void yawned before him as surely as it had before, but he screwed his eyes shut and refused to acknowledge it. There was a sickening hollowness in his stomach and a lethargy in his bones. Oversleeping had always seemed slothful to him, overindulgent, the height of idleness, but now he clung to it desperately. It seemed the next best thing to being dead. 

Javert slept, slept, slept, slept until his head hurt and eyes ached. He cowered behind it, he drowned again in it, he wrapped himself up in its thick dreamlessness and pleaded for nothing to penetrate it. In the restless intervals between sleep he clutched the pillow and buried his head beneath the sheets like a child, as though a light covering of cotton and feathers could shield him from the horrors of his conscience. He crushed every trace of emotion in an iron fist before it could turn traitor, killed every thought and impulse before it could evolve into something worse. He would not, could not, allow himself to lose control again. 

—

At an unknown hour on an unknown day, he woke to the sound of voices from another room - Valjean’s voice, warm and unmistakable, and then the laugh of a young woman. He frowned at the ceiling, which was dappled a pale gold, and thought it might be morning. Of course Valjean had a daughter. He had a vague recollection of seeing them in the street together some months before. Valjean had worn green and hidden his face; the girl had clung to his arm, her skin starkly pale with fright beneath her dark curls.

The girl laughed again and Valjean’s voice responded indistinctly, also quavering with amusement. Javert sneered. Why did Valjean insist upon spending miserable hours with Javert, when he had all the love and companionship he could need with his daughter? Why should Valjean risk losing it all to save him? Where was the sense in it, in any of it?

Javert had spent June in the grip of fever, and the majority of July sulking beneath the sheets. Near the end of the month he felt compelled to make a grander attempt to take control of himself. His strength had returned a little in the past couple of weeks, enough to stand and walk with the aid of a cane, to bathe, and to groom himself at the dressing table in the corner. 

He sat at the table one evening and contemplated his reflection. The scruffy, bristly face of a vagrant stared back, and he inspected it with the same detachment he gave to everything else these days. Haltingly he touched his gaunt cheeks and the terrible dark hollows under his dull eyes - the last deep red touches of the dying sun gave them a bruised, mottled shade. How was it possible to sleep so much, yet look so weary? He had never found pleasure in looking at his own face, but there had been satisfaction and an odd vicious pride in being rigidly well groomed, in being visibly  different from the bedraggled scum of the street. He tucked an oily lock of hair behind his ear but it sprang back into its own unruly shape. Inspector Javert needed to be irreproachable, incorruptible, unflappable, with the sleek appearance to match. Where was that man now? He was gone, long gone. He had been lost to the Seine despite Valjean’s best efforts and left only a shambling husk behind. A heavy, numb dread curled in Javert’s stomach.

He investigated the contents of the table and found a hairbrush, towels, soap, a shaving brush, and a small basin. His lip curled wryly. The shaving razor was conspicuous in its absence, but he supposed he could not blame Valjean for the precaution. He set to brushing out the knots in his neglected mane - having neat hair again would not soothe what ailed him, but it was better than nothing. The brush quickly snagged against a difficult clump at the base of his neck. He gritted his teeth and forced the matted strands apart. 

Presently Valjean knocked on the door, exactly on time for his nightly visit. “Come in,” grunted Javert.

The other man entered with a book beneath his arm and smiled mildly at him. “Am I disturbing you?”

 Not any more than usual, he thought acidly, but he merely shook his head. 

“I could fill that basin if you wanted to wash,” offered Valjean. “I’m sure there’s still some warm water in the kitchen.”

Javert hesitated, then handed it over. “Cold will be sufficient.”

He occupied himself with working the remaining knots from his hair while he waited, but the effort left him frustrated and fatigued. Valjean finally reappeared after a not insignificant amount of time and placed the filled basin in front of him. Javert noted the steam rising from the water and sneered, which turned to a bitter bark when Valjean carefully placed a straight razor next to it. “Prison rules, then?” he said sourly before he could stop himself. “Shaving only under supervision?”

“If you wish,” said Valjean in a mild tone, ignoring the jibe. 

“I do not wish to. I am tired.”

“That is fine.”

“It is not fine,”  he growled. “I have been  waiting  here, sapped of strength, while you have been  dawdling  and heating water that I did not want hot, and now I am  tired.”

The dumbstruck look on Valjean’s face would have been comedic had Javert been in the mood to laugh. “You don’t want to wash?”

“You’ve ruined it. Go away.”

“Now, Javert -”

“Don’t take that blasted  tone with me!”

“What tone would you like, then?” snapped Valjean, his eyes alight with irritation. “Can you not be civil?”

“Not while you condescend to me like I’m a damned child!”

“Is this - are you angry about the razor?”

Javert laughed rudely, baring his teeth like an animal. “That’s the  start of it.”

“Then what do you want?”

“I want -” Javert stalled, his breath squeezing painfully past his throat. He grimaced and clawed at his face in frustration, feeling the grime under his fingernails. “I don’t know. I don’t know. I am tired. But I will not be condescended to.”

Valjean said nothing; all fight seemed to have suddenly drained from him. Javert found his own weariness reflected in the other man’s eyes. “Do you still want to wash your face? I can bring the mirror and basin to your bed, if you wish.”

Javert struggled with himself, but his self-respect was already in tatters - what was one more indignity? He nodded. Valjean seemed to know better than to try assisting Javert to his bed, but he laid the basin out for him with more care than he deserved; first the pillows at his back so that he could sit up comfortably, then a towel across his lap. Next came the basin sitting heavy on his legs, so warm he could feel it through the sheets, and then the soap and cloth. A lamp followed and was placed on the bedside table to illuminate his wretched features. He could not find a way to balance the mirror. “I can hold it,” said Valjean, almost timid.

“If you stay quiet.”

Valjean laughed bleakly. “Gladly.”

Javert dipped the facecloth into the hot water and rubbed at his face mechanically. He had vague recollections of the nurse dabbing cool water onto his skin in the feverish early weeks, but her touch had been gentle, barely ghosting over his burning flesh and livid bruises. Perhaps if he scrubbed hard enough this terrible fragile shell of a man would flake away and his old self would crawl out. The soap formed a fine lather and had a floral scent that was too strong for his taste, but he gritted his teeth and bore it. He purposely did not look to Valjean. Shame was beginning to course through him after his childish outburst.

He rinsed the last trace of foam away and patted his face dry, then allowed his eyes to skip to the other man for a moment. Valjean was staring past him and out of the window. The lamplight picked out the furrows of his face, which seemed to deepen even as Javert watched. This close, Javert could see the puffy skin under his eyes and the disheveled state of his thick beard. The arm which held the mirror was perfectly still; the small amount of skin he could see was freckled and thin and stretched over the bones beneath.

Perhaps it was his own exhaustion and their shared air of weariness that loosened Javert’s tongue. He spoke flatly, quietly. "I wish you would listen to me."

Valjean looked to him, eyebrows raised slightly. "I am listening."

"I told you cold water would be sufficient."

"But there was warm water left, just as I thought. It only took a few minutes to heat -"

"I don’t care. I asked for cold." Javert buried his face in the towel. "I asked for cold. It might not seem like much, but I - I am weary, Valjean, of being told what is best for me, and of having my needs dictated to me by others."

"Javert -"

"Perhaps I’m losing my reason, but I fail to see the harm that something as small as controlling the temperature of my water could cause."

There was a heavy silence. Javert peeked above the towel, but Valjean was looking away again. 

"I do not think that you have lost your reason." Javert made a disbelieving noise but Valjean turned back to him, silencing him. "I think that you are sick, and I am truly sorry that I didn't listen. I assumed that the hot water would be a luxury. I didn't think. After all these weeks, this room must surely feel like a - well, a prison."

"It is," said Javert shortly. Valjean's face fell and Javert felt a strange stab of regret for the harshness of his words. He returned to the relative safety of the mirror and patted his beard dry.

“Would you like to shave?” murmured Valjean.

Javert shook his head. “Don’t trust my hands not to shake.” 

Valjean looked for a moment as though he were about to offer to shave him, but again thought better of it. He lifted the basin and its accoutrements away once Javert was finished. Javert felt obliged to thank him, to break the silence that had settled, but the words caught in his throat. He rubbed his hand over his cheek and enjoyed the cleanliness of it under his fingers; Valjean caught his eye and nodded. Perhaps words weren’t necessary.

Valjean placed the basin on the dressing table and fidgeted with a towel. “It was good to see you out of bed,” he said softly. “I don’t think I expressly said so before, but you are free to go wherever you wish in this house. Cosette lives here too, but she spends most of her day elsewhere. Madame Toussaint makes up a wonderful fire in the evenings, and you may eat in the kitchen whenever you please. You are on the ground floor, so everything will be within your reach.”

“I understand.”

“And if you ever need anything,” Valjean said quietly, “please, tell me. If something agitates you, tell me. I truly do not want you to suffer.”

“You  agitate me,” grumbled Javert.

Valjean smiled, but it did not reach his eyes. “Sometimes we must live with our agitations.”

—

The next day, Javert ventured from his room for the first time. He investigated the study and the drawing room, where he collapsed onto a chair and stared around morosely. The house was comfortably sized and every surface was clean, shining even, but aside from a few vases of fresh flowers it felt strangely devoid of personality. There were no paintings or personal items to be seen; even Javert’s wretched lodgings had always had some personal effects and half-darned items of clothing sitting around. It was as though the three (now four) inhabitants of this house at the Rue Plumet were merely residing here temporarily.

He remained icily polite to Valjean and the hot water incident was forgotten. Valjean was absent much of the time, and it took Javert a few days to realise that he spent most of his time in a different building entirely. He squinted through the kitchen window and was just about able to observe the shabby little hut tucked into a corner of the overgrown garden. “You sleep in that shack?” he said dubiously.

“It’s a servants’ cottage,” said Valjean, a defensive note to his voice. “It is all I require. The inside is very homely.”

When Valjean visited the main house his favourite place to sit was by the drawing room fire, followed closely by the kitchen hearth; he seemed to value warmth above all else. When Madame Toussaint was not working she kept to her quarters, which against all logic were located not in the servants’ cottage but in the main house. Cosette lived upstairs, but Javert did not see her. When he woke early he occasionally heard a light tread on the ceiling above him, or a faint voice a few rooms away exchanging pleasantries with Valjean, but by the time Javert made himself presentable she was always gone.

—

With more time spent out of bed came the need for proper day clothes. Loose nightshirts he could borrow, but none of the clothes in the house were a good fit for his lanky build. After some coaxing he allowed Valjean to visit his old lodgings and collect his clothing for him. There wasn’t much to collect; they laid them out on Javert’s bed for inspection. 

“I couldn’t find any shoes,” said Valjean apologetically, “and you didn’t have any when you - when you came here. Do you know where they might be?”

Javert ignored him. “Pawn those,” he said moodily, indicating the two sets of neat black uniforms.

“The trousers are smart,” said Valjean. “I do not think they would be mistaken for police wear without the coat and -”

“Pawn them,” he said, the hint of a growl in his voice. “Or burn them.”

Valjean acquiesced. “That leaves only one set of trousers, and still no boots. I could use the money from the uniforms to buy you new ones, if you wish?” 

The next day Javert found that the few shirts that he had kept were frustratingly loose on his gaunt frame, so he tucked one into his belt and rolled up his sleeves. Valjean returned that afternoon with a new collection of formal and informal wear not dissimilar in fashion to his own. Javert could tell from a single touch of the fabric that they were worth at least double the amount he would have received from pawning the two threadbare uniforms, but he held his tongue. 

—

Javert’s sleeping pattern remained erratic; he found himself sporadically waking up in the dead of night and scrambling for a candle with shaking hands and a pounding heart, desperate to chase away the spectres that still lurked in the darkness. Often he did not fully rise until late in the afternoon. This irregularity in his habits meant that he mostly ate alone, which more than suited him. The less he saw of Valjean the better.

The first time he encountered the other man sitting at the kitchen table he hesitated, but Valjean looked up from the loaf of bread he was slicing and smiled. “Good afternoon. May I offer you some of Cosette’s baking? It’s very good.”

Javert bit back an annoyed remark about being able to prepare his own bread and nodded dully. He sat at the opposite side of the table and watched as Valjean cut the loaf with something approaching reverence.

“There is also fresh fruit, if you would like some," said Valjean, indicating the fruit bowl that sat between them. Javert ignored it. The other man finished slicing and slid the laden breadboard in Javert’s direction, followed quickly by butter and jam. "How did you sleep?" he asked.

"Do not subject me to small talk, I beg you."

Valjean smiled, and the sunlight curved over his weathered face. "I'm sorry. Habit."

Javert took a piece of the bread and inspected it. It was white, light in texture with a hearty golden crust, far more expensive to make than the hard black bread he would have chosen for himself. All of this money Valjean was wasting on him - food, doctors, medicine, clothes, endless francs frivolously thrown into a black pit! Christ, it was more than he could ever repay even if he worked himself to the grave. Had it been anyone else, Javert might have suspected he was being kept alive purely to work off his debt. He let out a derisive bark of laughter and crushed the slice in his palm. 

"Should I ask?" said Valjean, reaching for the bread. Javert stared as he helped himself to a thin layer of jam. Valjean intended to eat with him. 

The idea froze his blood with horror. He intended to break bread with Javert as though they were equals, as though he were not a giant who loomed above him, as though he were not a radiant star who dazzled him with his goodness; as though Javert were not the basest of beasts who had plagued him and tormented him for decades, as though Javert were not a wretch who fouled and bloodied everything he touched. 

Valjean said something but he couldn’t hear properly. He couldn’t talk, couldn’t catch his breath; thin distressed wheezes were ripping through him. He had somehow caught the tablecloth in an iron grip and could feel his nails tearing through the delicate lace. “No,” he managed. 

Valjean’s voice seemed to come from a distance. “Javert, what is it?” He extended a hand but no, no, Javert flinched away wildly from it and his tensed fingers burst through the tablecloth, no, he could not let this saint touch his sorry carcass, it was a merciful touch from him that had started this descent into madness to begin with - where would it end if he permitted more! 

“Why on earth did you save me?” he breathed. He started to laugh, quiet and low and terrible. His lips drew back to fully reveal his gums as he laughed harder. He must have looked a terrifying sight, but he could not stop. He tore out another clawful of lace, snorting at the extra cost he had just incurred, then pulled at his hair and pressed his face to the table as the tears started. God, what a wretch! How he wished to be dead, lungs sodden, eyes unseeing! He yearned to be dashed against the riverbed and found tangled in fishing tackle, pallid and rotten! How much easier that would be!

He felt Valjean’s hand at his arm and tensed, but then a piece of fabric was slipped into his curled fist. Opening his teary eyes revealed a handkerchief; he buried his face in it and allowed himself to sob.

Eventually shame overcame misery and bit by bit he forced his breath back under control. He reluctantly lifted his head from the tablecloth, doubtless with a fine imprint of the ruined lacework stamped onto his forehead, and saw Valjean still sitting across from him. He was eating half of a peeled tangerine. The other half sat in front of Javert. He stared at it stupidly.

Valjean did not look up from his portion of the fruit. “I would like to know what upset you,” he said, his voice low and sorrowful, “so that I may avoid doing it again.”

“Does it matter?” asked Javert bitterly.

“It matters to me.”

Javert felt like a wrung-out cloth. He took a slice of orange in shaky fingers and shoved it into his mouth rather than respond. 

“Do you have anywhere else to go?” asked Valjean gently, as though to a child. “Anyone else who can care for you?”

“I wish I’d never set eyes on your vile face,” grated Javert.

The insult slipped past Valjean as usual. “That would have been easier for both of us,” he said soberly. “But listen to me. Would you like to leave this place?”

Javert laughed harshly, but Valjean’s lined face remained entirely earnest. “What do  you think?”

“Where would you go?”

“What do you care?”

“Answer the question, please.”

“Back into the river where I belong,” he snapped.

Valjean sighed, but he seemed more tired than upset. He crossed his arms and sat back. “Is there truly nobody who can help you?”

Javert thought of Chabouillet, his patron of so many decades, thought of his generosity and pride in Javert’s achievements, of his cool disappointment whenever Javert acted rashly and brought shame to his profession. His stomach roiled. He would rather Chabouillet think him vanished or dead than see him in his current state. “I don’t have anybody,” he said bluntly. “You’ve wasted your time.”

The anticipated explosion of pity and piety did not come; when Javert looked up he found that Valjean had merely inclined his head a fraction.

Javert sneered. “Are you disappointed? Do you want me gone?”

“Of course not -”

“Throw me back onto the street. I’ll thank you.”

“Javert,” said Valjean, a bite of impatience in his voice. “Listen to me. You are welcome to stay here for as long as you need. But perhaps it would be better if - if we had less contact with one another. It seems to me that every time we talk, I do something to agitate you.”

“Such powers of observation! You should have been an inspector!"

“Will you listen!” Valjean snapped, then subsided and ran a shaky hand through his hair. He inhaled, slowly exhaled, and continued in a more measured tone. “I don’t want to cause you pain. I want you to recover, but I suspect that my presence is setting your recovery back.”

“How many times must we have this conversation! I never asked for your presence! I -"  I do not deserve your presence,  he wanted to spit, but his jaw locked up and would not allow the words to take shape. "You  do not listen," he finished miserably. "There are some things that cannot be repaired. Sometimes it is kinder to put the mad dog down."

"I can't do that," said Valjean. 

"I know that. I would not be here if you could." Javert thought again of that gentle touch to his chin, and threw down the sodden handkerchief in frustration. "And yet this is far more painful."

—

Valjean did not impose upon him after that. On occasion they would meet each other in the hall, or share opposite sides of a room in silence, but typically their orbits did not intersect. When they did pass an hour together Valjean's face seemed grim and grave; perhaps he finally understood the magnitude of what he had done. Javert heard less of Cosette, too; her high, clear laughter in the mornings seemed to tumble through the house less and less often, until finally she all but disappeared.

Javert was glad to see and hear less of them both. Their lives were not his to share. 

please check out these two amazing illustrations based on this fic, drawn by grantaire-foudroye on tumblr!

Solitude suited Javert. He lost himself in books once again (he did not enjoy them, but he enjoyed the company of his own thoughts even less). There was a certain chaise in the study that caught the sun in the early afternoon, and he found that curling up there and drowsing was very nearly a pleasure. Madame Toussaint asked him one day if he wished to take his lunch there; he accepted, impressed by her acuity, and ended up eating in that spot most days.

As enjoyment returned to him, so too did increased agitation; with his plan of blind compliance thoroughly broken and his need for laudanum gone, he found his thoughts wandering in increasingly unbalanced directions. The fear of losing his mind again was ever-present. He feared the mania that sprang to life without warning and stripped away his self-control, feared the humiliation of fleeing things that clearly did not exist. Ghostly convicts stalking Parisian streets? A single kind act plunging him into weeping hysterics? Figures that appeared and disappeared in the blink of an eye? Laughable. Childish. He scorned the fool that had shivered on the bridge and believed such things.

The books worked sometimes, but the writhing, burning guilt refused to fade. It blurred his vision and made his head throb and would not subside no matter how hard he willed it away. Why was he here? Why did he allow it to continue? He did not deserve this treatment - did not deserve to live and draw breath, never mind be afforded the luxuries that had been granted to him without a second thought.

One morning in late August he fetched some water to shave, for his hands were once again steady enough to resume the habit. The straight razor now sat on the dressing table unsupervised. He assumed that it was a gesture of trust from Valjean, but in his more macabre moods he wondered if the other man considered him a lost cause and was offering him an escape route. 

Everything on the table was aligned and ready but he found himself sitting there frozen, his head in his hands, unable to move. The water was rapidly cooling in the basin before him but even the act of washing his face seemed a monumental effort. He stared at his reflection dully. The ragged emaciation of the early weeks had passed but he still looked dreadful. Was this to be his future? Bloodthirstiness replaced by declawed tedium?

He forced himself to shave before his thoughts could spiral any further, then dressed himself and sought out his favourite spot in the study. The book he had abandoned the evening before diverted his attention for an hour or so, until his eyelids began to droop and he found his grip on the cover slackening. The sun was pleasantly warm on his back.

The door opened and he jumped awake, clutching the book that lay open on his chest. He let his heavy eyes fall shut again and listened to the approaching footsteps; that slow, careful, lionlike tread could only be Valjean's. He scowled. He was having quite a pleasant afternoon, all things considered; perhaps if he ignored Valjean he could continue to do so.

There was no such luck. He heard Valjean approach softly and place something on the table next to Javert. “I’ve brought you lunch.”

“Where is Madame Toussaint?” asked Javert.

“She is busy.”

Javert fixed him with a suspicious look, then turned his attention to the plate that had been placed at his elbow. On it sat a dense white bread roll. Javert lifted it and found generous amounts of butter and cured ham stuffed inside. He regarded it with the enthusiasm he would have afforded to a week-old cadaver discovered at the height of summer. 

Valjean correctly read his expression. “It’s been weeks since the last time, Javert.”

“I remember it very clearly,” he said between gritted teeth.

"Doctor Vigo would still like you to try.” Javert opened his mouth but Valjean cut him off. “He thinks it important for your constitution that you start eating meat and fat again.”

"And what of my  constitution  when I'm puking my guts out like last time?”

"That was over a month ago, and you have strengthened since then.” Valjean settled into the chair opposite, his expression weary. "I shall make a light soup if your stomach can't handle it, but please try.”

“You'll be the death of me,” Javert grunted, but he tore a mouthful from the offending roll. He chewed furiously, too quickly to taste anything, and glared at Valjean, but the older man’s gaze had already wandered away. With the first mouthful gone Javert smiled humourlessly. “That’s why you’re here, isn’t it? You wanted to spare your housekeeper my anger.”

“Madame Toussaint is busy,” repeated Valjean in a flat tone, massaging his creased brow.

“And I’m Buonaparte.” 

Valjean did not try to deny the lie again; in the absence of a response Javert choked back more of the bread. Somehow Valjean’s distracted silence irritated Javert even more than his usual air of saintly concern. He watched, seemingly unnoticed, as Valjean’s fingers began their now-familiar motion of scratching feverishly over his crown. The downy white hair in its path was becoming hopelessly rumpled and still he stared into space with a strange lack of focus.

Javert watched him some more as he ate, interested. He had not felt inclined to question or explore anything since that fateful exchange at the riverbank, but now curiosity stirred within him. The familiar instinct almost eclipsed the nausea that rose with every heavy mouthful of meat and butter. 

He studied Valjean’s face. When was the last time he had stared at him with his intent only to observe, not to spit an insult or demand his surrender? It must have been in Montreuil. The townspeople had called Mayor Madeleine charming, but something about him had always made Javert’s skin itch. The warmth in his eyes had been offset by flashes of steel, the harsh lines of his face had been carved out by something more hateful than the careful smiles he practiced.

And what of the man who sat before him? The energetic Madeleine bore little resemblance to the Valjean of today, pale and quiet as he was now with his face heavily lined and somewhat hollow. He had more of the hopeless convict about him than the charismatic mayor. The thought unsettled Javert. He shook his head free of the grim images of years before and looked back down at the roll; to his surprise, there were only a couple of bites left. He had forgotten his nausea in the midst of his interest in Valjean’s appearance. 

Valjean had noticed too. “That is good,” he murmured, distractedly smoothing down his tossed hair. A couple of white strands evaded him and continued to stand on end. “How do you feel?”

“No worse than usual,” muttered Javert.

Valjean gave him the ghost of a smile. “Monsieur Vigo will be pleased. Now,” and he hauled himself to his feet, “I'm afraid I have other matters to attend to. May I take your plate?”

Those matters, whatever they were, kept Valjean out of the house for the entire evening. He did not show up during dinner, which Madame Toussaint prepared, nor was he present at the drawing room hearth when Javert peeped in after sunset. The hut at the end of the garden was dark and lifeless. Javert brooded alone by the fire for a while, then gave up and retired to bed early. 

Valjean did not appear for the next five days. When questioned, Toussaint merely relayed that he was away on business. It put Javert out of sorts; despite his efforts to avoid and ignore Valjean's presence, his absence somehow vexed him even more. The routines Javert had formed in the past few months were strange and pathetic, but they were habits nonetheless, and Javert was a creature of habit. He would almost go so far as to call them comfortable, as far as one could find comfort in the midst of miserable illness and idleness. 

He picked at the hem of his sleeve and stared at the ceiling above his bed. There was scant comfort to be found in the now, but it was preferable to the unknown dread of what lay ahead. Tomorrow he would go about much the same routine as today, but what of next week, next month? He tried to imagine himself still existing in a year's time and found himself unable to. What place was there for him in society? Who would welcome a dog too toothless to stand guard, too old to be trained, too wolfish and mad to be tamed?

“Enough,” he hissed, and rolled over to light a candle with hands that only shook slightly. The flame was thin but it freed him from the stranglehold of darkness; he breathed more easily with the wan light dancing over his reassuringly empty surroundings. It was laughable, it really was, to be a grown man afraid of the dark, but the street full of chained silhouettes still haunted him. Sometimes he feared that only the slightest slip of his sanity might summon those silent figures again. 

The anxious catch in his breath did not entirely leave, and sleep seemed to grow more distant with every moment that passed. He rolled onto his stomach and watched the white candle shine as it melted in testament to his weakness. He could not justify wasting so much costly wax on chasing away childish nightmares, he really couldn't - but fear kept him tethered to that tiny beacon of light like a shivering sailor clinging to a wreck. His fingers retained the memory of the frozen railings of the bridge, first the fierce ache as the wrought iron dug into his skin, and then the sickening numb  nothing as he fell away -

Enough, enough! He kicked off the bedclothes and grabbed the candlestick, making the light flicker with the sharp movement. There would be some dying fire in one room or another that he could anchor himself to. There would be glowing coals that would chase away the spectres, or an east-facing window that would catch the first pale rays of dawn and wash away the nightmares. The early autumn night was crisp and the floorboards were cold beneath his feet as he crept out of the bedroom, his candle sending wild shadows dancing across every surface. 

The drawing room was dark and dead, as was the study, but when he investigated the kitchen he found a deep red glow still emanating from the hearth. Twin armchairs sat close by. He snuffed out the candle and made his way to them, moving slowly in an attempt to muffle the clicking of his cane against the tiles, but halfway he stopped in amazement. One armchair already had an occupant. Javert quietly made his way to the other chair and stared once again at Jean Valjean.

He sat slumped in a nightshirt, chin on his chest, and appeared to be sleeping soundly. The glow of the coals cast a dying reddish light over him. Shadows curled around his temples and lapped at his eye sockets like scavengers. He seemed shrunken without the trappings of his usual well-tailored clothing; Javert realised for the first time how small his frame was beneath its brawn. Valjean had always seemed large to him, first as a threat, briefly as an authority, and now as an infuriating, immoveable symbol of his own failure. The red rosary was tangled in his fingers, which on further inspection were tightly tensed even in slumber. The disheveled state of his hair suggested he’d been worrying at it again. The scene struck Javert as something wretched and lonely.

But that was an irrational thought. Javert pursed his lips together. Who was he to judge a sleeping man’s appearance when he himself had looked half a corpse in the early stages of his recovery? Still, the awkward angle of Valjean’s neck made Javert’s own ache in sympathy. He reached for his cane to nudge him awake but thought better of it. Instead he leaned forward, drew a deep breath, and touched him on the shoulder with two fingertips.

Valjean twitched. Javert sat back quickly and watched as his eyelids fluttered. The bagne had made him familiar with the stages of unwilling wakefulness; first the mirror image crease of the mouth and brow, then the protesting squint of tired eyes against the intrusion of light, then the weak sigh and raised hand to massage some life into weary facial muscles. By the time Valjean had gone through the routine he realised that his own features had schooled themselves into the hateful mask of the galley guard. He scowled it away and looked away into the hearth.

“Fell asleep,” said Valjean, his voice faint.

Javert ignored him and continued to watch the dying coals. Out of the corner of his eye he saw Valjean push himself into an upright sitting position with a small groan, then settle back down heavily. There was an unaccustomed stiffness to his movements.

“Where were you this week?” he grunted.

"I was on business."

Javert's laugh was short and mocking. “What  business do you have to attend to? You’re a man in hiding.”

“Certain things.” Valjean's voice was still hushed, and his aged fingers worried over the rosary. “Certain things.”

Javert did not ask again. If the man wanted to be cryptic, Javert would not waste his time making sense of it. He glanced at Valjean and again had the impression that his mind was entirely elsewhere.

The coals continued to glimmer and die, and the darkness closed in around them both. Javert thought he saw something stir in a recess of the room and shuddered. If a wraith from the bagne saw fit to accost him, would Valjean in his frailty be able to help him? He immediately realised the idiocy of his thoughts and forced himself to look away from the shade, but vague fear continued to coil tightly in his chest. 

“You mustn’t tell her,” said Valjean, barely audible. His face was the colour of ash. “You must not tell her. Please.” He began to shiver. “For God’s sake, you may say anything you wish to me, but - please - not to her.”

“Tell - ?” Javert felt his mouth moving wordlessly, struggling to pick one confused response from the dozens that jockeyed for position within him. “Tell who?"

"My Cosette," said Valjean miserably. 

Javert let out another bitter bark. “Your daughter? I have never even talked to her. It would be better for all of us to keep it that way.”

“You may yet. And she will have questions. She was always such a curious little girl -” Valjean pressed a hand to his mouth sharply but Javert recognised the beginnings of a choked-off sob.

Javert stared. In the midst of this madness he clutched for the only lifeline he had been given. “Questions?”

“Questions,” breathed Valjean. His eyes shone with tears. “Always so many questions. It is wicked to keep her in the dark, but more wicked still to - to force her to live with the shame -" he buried his face in his hands and continued in a muffled tone, "- she cannot know what I am. She knows me only as Fauchelevent, as her Papa, not - not Madeleine, or - or -"

"Jean Valjean," said Javert sourly. 

Valjean trembled at the name as surely as Javert had on the bridge. Javert continued to stare, but that haggard face and hopeless posture only presented more questions. Despite his countless metamorphoses over the years, he had never seemed more the wretched galley-slave than in this moment. Javert could only sit and watch stupidly as Valjean lifted his wet eyes and stared into the embers. His forehead was a maze of furrows. 

“I have been travelling,” he said hoarsely, breaking the silence. “There is - there is a suitcase that I buried close to Montfermeil. It contains six hundred thousand francs. I made them honestly, Javert, I know you suspected the worst of me in Montreuil, but I made my money honestly. There is - was - a compound of materials that I used to make my jet. The materials were cheap, so cheap, both so common, but when combined they produced beauty - was it dishonest of me to sell them for so high a price, when the raw forms were so freely available? I was no worse than any of the other businessmen I met, and I thought - I thought - God forgive me, I was so different then, and it was so long ago - but I remember the materials, and the percentages, and the profit margins, and I am sure it is honest money - she would surely understand, if I could just explain -”

Javert watched in horror as Valjean unravelled before his eyes. “The suitcase, Valjean,” he snapped. “Stay on track. I do not care for economics.”

Valjean looked back to him. His eyes were two red streaks in the midst of his papery white face. “I retrieved the suitcase. I dug it up. It shall be Cosette’s dowry, honestly earned, and it will keep her comfortable when I am gone. But - but I know that she will ask where it came from. She will ask everyone, and she will persist, and she may ask you, and you must not tell her what you know, even when I am dead!”

“Dead! You are mad! Why should your daughter think to track me down in years to come?” The extra retort hung on his lips; do you still not realise that I will be long dead before then?

Valjean’s face slipped back into his hands and he said nothing. Javert blinked and a terrible ice-cold realisation ran through him.

“You intend to die soon rather than face your daughter’s confrontation over the money," he said slowly, testing each word. 

“It is not the money.”

“The past, then.” Javert’s voice thickened with anger. “My God. You intend to - you -” the anger choked him and he pointed, briefly incoherent with rage, but the wild movement was lost entirely on the slumped Valjean. “You intend to kill yourself!”

"No, no, no -”

“You do! You think you can fool me!”

“I would never!” barked Valjean, his teeth flashing for a desperate moment. “Do not accuse me of that. I would never - would never -"

"Do you think I'm  stupid?" 

“Javert, please, the women are sleeping -”

“I shall wake the whole damn street, sleep be damned! Sweet Christ, Valjean! I shall go fully insane!"

“Javert, Javert, please -” Valjean lifted his head from his hands, his voice quavering, “please, please. I have done my duty. I am tired of toil, I am so tired of running -”

“Tired of running! Do you wish to be arrested after all?” Javert laughed manically. “Is that why you saved me? You wished to have someone who knew you for what you were! You wished for me to drag you away so that you could die in prison! I’m just an instrument for your self-flagellation!”

Valjean had the eyes of a cornered animal. "Javert,  please  -"

The last thread inside Javert snapped and his hand gripped Valjean’s collar and shoved him backwards sharply, madly, and now they were nose to nose and he was staring into bloodshot eyes wide with surprise and feeling frightened breath rasp across his face. Valjean, he with the strength of ten men, went limp in his grasp and made no move to struggle.

“You saved me,” Javert growled through his teeth, his voice so low with rage it scraped at his throat, “and allowed me to suffer for months, more than I have ever suffered in my miserable life, so that I may aid in your self-destruction.”

Valjean’s hand clamped around his shaking wrist but made no move to pull him away. “No,” he croaked.

“Why. Did you save me.”

“I… I don’t know.”

“You are  scum,” he spat.

Valjean said nothing. Javert wished to take him by the cotton-clad shoulders and shake, but even in the midst of mania the thought of laying harsh hands on the man made him feel ill. Instead he clenched his jaw and took aim again. 

“Do you think of others? Do you consider us wretches in your crusade of mercy? Christ! When I jumped I saw you as an unimpeachable saint! I would have died in prison for you, fool that I was! I would have torn myself apart for you and laid the bloody scraps at your feet! I was entirely mad!”

“You were," croaked Valjean. 

“Ha!” Javert shrieked, his fingers growing even tighter on his collar. “A few months ago you assured me I wasn't losing my reason! Now I'm mad after all! You lie, Valjean, you lie and you lie to everyone around you. You preach piety and then pick and choose your morals as they suit you! You haven't changed a jot, Monsieur le Maire!” 

“I lied only to survive,” Valjean whispered. 

“Much good that did you!”

“One lie - builds another - and another, until they smother you, and the only way out is to keep lying -” The hand on Javert's wrist tightened. “God help me, I don't know how to stop. I didn't intend to drag either you or Cosette into this tangle. I swear it. Would that I could disappear -”

“You can't,” said Javert bluntly. “You would only make things worse.”

Valjean's face crumpled and Javert caught a momentary glimpse of the immense pain within him. It all came to the fore, just for that moment - the secret he had borne alone for so long, the unbearable burden that crushed him and bent him and carved premature lines into his weary face, the phantom shackles that seemed on the cusp of breaking him for good. Javert let go of his collar as though burned but Valjean’s grip on his wrist remained tight. “I don’t know what to do,” Valjean whispered, as the first fat tear rolled down his weatherbeaten cheek.

Javert swallowed. With his rage clearing he was becoming aware of several things he had earlier neglected to notice. He was aware of the rough skin of Valjean’s palm on the back of his hand where his sleeve didn’t quite reach far enough, of Valjean’s weak breath on his mouth, ghosting inside when he licked his lips nervously, but above all aware of the sharp pain in his foot from standing unsupported for too long. Despite that, he felt loath to move. The wrong movement might shatter the cowering man. “This is what you do,” he heard himself say gruffly. He rested his free hand on the arm of the chair and stared intently into Valjean’s pale eyes. “You go to bed. You pray, if you wish, and you keep a candle lighting if that helps you. And you hope that maybe tonight your sleep will be free of nightmares.”

“And in the morning?” croaked Valjean.

“You wake up with all of the same problems. Now let go of me. I cannot stand any longer.”

Valjean finally released his grip and Javert fell backwards into the soft embrace of the armchair. The anger inside him had turned swiftly to a black pool of despair. “Look at us,” he grunted, staring into the fire. “Men our age should be grandfathers. We should sit by the fire in slippers and smoke and drink gin and - and whatever else it is that wealthy men do. Instead we squabble in our nightshirts over who shall kill himself first. Neither of us are fit for purpose. Fit for life.” 

Valjean stared back with a dazed expression, rubbing his fingers against his palm. Watching him made Javert feel even more trapped. "Go to bed,” he said.

Valjean looked slightly wounded by the order. “I won’t sleep.”

Javert reached into the past and found the voice of the querulous galley guard. “Go to bed!” 

The other man stared for a moment, wide-eyed, then nodded slowly. His palm found the arm of his chair and he carefully heaved himself upwards. After taking a moment to find his balance he let go of the chair and cast his despairing gaze upon Javert. “Good night,” he said quietly.

Javert said nothing as he shuffled away. Without Valjean’s presence, the shadows in the corners seemed to creep closer and closer in the heavy silence. Javert was too drained to bring himself to care. He stared moodily into the fire for another while, pondering the unnerving lifelessness in Valjean’s eyes, then grabbed for the candlestick in sudden agitation and retreated to his own bed.

Javert woke well after noon, the events of the night before still hanging over him. He changed his clothes, washed his face, shaved, and cautiously made his way to the kitchen for lunch, unsure of the Valjean that awaited him today.

The answer was none. Valjean’s breakfast cutlery lay untouched. Javert chewed at his lip and settled for a light brunch of bread and cheese, but his appetite had deserted him. Madame Toussaint entered shortly after with kindling for the fire, and shook her head when Javert questioned her about Valjean’s whereabouts.

“Monsieur Fauchelevent is still in his quarters. He is likely resting after his business travels.”

The hell he is,  thought Javert, but he said nothing and stared out of the kitchen window. The clock on the mantelpiece ticked past three o’clock, still with no sign of Valjean. Toussaint finished her work and left. Javert continued to stare grimly at the spot where he knew Valjean's hut lay, obscured as it was by a riot of red autumnal leaves. 

Barely a day before, the thought of entering that hut would have filled him with repulsion - some gratitude it would be, for him to impose upon his host’s privacy in such a manner! He had spent long enough seeing Valjean as less than human; the idea of acting that way towards him once again repulsed him. No, let Javert keep to his own quarters and stew in his self-imposed misery. But suddenly there was a new appetite inside him to - to reach out, ignoring his usual instincts to snarl and withdraw, and to shake some sense into Valjean until he stopped being such a bloody fool. To hell with it, he thought, and for the first time he found himself outside in the garden. 

Overgrown grass clutched thickly at his legs as he walked, and a gentle breeze swept around him. He knocked on the door quietly and heard no response. Gentle pressure upon the handle made it swing open without a sound - perhaps career thieves had an aversion to squeaking hinges, he thought, then berated himself for the uncharitable thought. He let himself in and swiftly closed the door behind him before he was spotted, then let his eyes dart around and inspect his surroundings. 

He was standing in a clean, humble room. There was no door aside from the one he had passed through. Javert swept the room with the impersonal gaze of the inspector, cataloguing everything - the whitewashed walls, the rough table with its two scruffy straw chairs, the low bed that sat in the corner - but curiosity made his gaze linger upon the figure within the bed. One room, Valjean inhabited only one room! The man was almost a millionaire, and yet he lived here!

He drew a little closer and found his eyes lingering upon the little table by the bed. Its surface was barely half a foot square, but it was as cluttered as the rest of the room was bare. Two large silver candlesticks took pride of place, while a more humble brass candle holder stood closer to the bed. It had plainly held a candle that had burned down to the base and guttered out while Valjean slept, per Javert’s instructions. The red rosary lay discarded and a small framed portrait of a girl sat between the silver candlesticks. Javert stared at it soberly and supposed it bore a vague resemblance to a younger Cosette, if one squinted. The girl was surely as much of a transformation artist as her father.

The bedside appraised, Javert turned his attention to the bed itself. Valjean lay on his back and slept soundly despite the afternoon sun that slipped past the thin curtains, illuminating him with an unearthly white glow. The distress of the night before had melted away in his slumber, with far fewer creases on his brow and a soft slackness to his lips as he breathed deeply. An incorrupt saint lying in repose would not have looked as peaceful. Javert despised it.

Again he nudged Valjean around the shoulder with his fingertips and again Valjean twitched slowly into wakefulness. He exhaled heavily, as though he were shouldering a great burden, and his chin and brow again took on that unhappy tension. Unfocused grey eyes fluttered and found Javert’s and his lips parted in a weary sigh. Javert was struck by the horrible vulnerability of the man lying before him. He shuddered. What had he done, why had he intruded? What part of him had thought it proper to witness Valjean in this state?

“Get up,” he snapped, and fled in panic. 

Javert retreated to the house and fell into his accustomed seat in the kitchen. He put his elbows on the table, rested his chin on his hands and waited. Valjean appeared after a few minutes, fully dressed, and looked at Javert with something approaching defiance. 

“I suppose you will want me to eat,” he said.

“I do,” replied Javert.

He watched Valjean assemble a small lunch using some leftovers. Once sat at the table he picked listlessly at it, but seemed to know better than to refuse to eat under Javert’s intent gaze. The speed of his transformation fascinated Javert - the tousled old man who lay in his bed and blinked up at Javert with dazed dismay had turned into a gentleman, neat and alert and distinguished even in workman’s shirt and trousers.

“What shall you do today?” demanded Javert once half of the meal was gone.

“I don’t know.” Valjean swallowed and considered the question. “I suppose I could go for a walk. Late afternoon walks are relaxing this time of year. There is a pleasant avenue in -”

“Absolutely not,” snapped Javert, who had prowled every inch of the city and had found nothing pleasant in it. “I’m not a fool. You could walk into the river on the lightest whim.”

“I wish you would not accuse me of that,” said Valjean testily.

Javert laughed without humour. “I suppose not. That’s too straightforward for you.”

“It’s a  sin, Javert.”

 And theft, fraud, decades of lies, and near starving yourself to death are not? Javert wanted to retort, but he reined himself in with an effort. “Ask your daughter to accompany you,” he snapped.

“She is with her fiancé,” said Valjean miserably. “I would not think to part them.”

Javert made an impatient noise. “He can survive one afternoon without her, can he not?”

Valjean’s hand returned to his scalp and worried at it. “He - he is in recovery from an injury. I am told that her presence helps him. Besides, I do not want her near me.”

“If only you felt the same about me,” grumbled Javert. A headache was beginning to pound at his skull. “You are infuriating.” 

“If you had let me sleep -”

“Sleep is not a solution!” snarled Javert.

Valjean sank into silence and picked at his meal while Javert watched sourly. The other man’s lethargy perturbed him even more in the cold light of day.

“I am sorry about last night,” said Valjean, his voice a low croak. “I should not have… my worries overcame me.”

Javert chewed at his lip as Valjean continued to eat. A confession battered at his ribs, screaming for release, but it got stuck somewhere in his chest and left him grinding his teeth uselessly. He finally spat the apology like a curse. “I shouldn’t have called you scum.”

“We were both upset,” said Valjean quietly, pushing the food around his plate a little more. After a few more minutes he looked up at Javert with a timid gaze. “Would you - we could go for a short walk, if you wished. Together. The change of scene might do us both good.”

“You jest.” Javert looked at him with horror and realised that he was serious. “Absolutely not!”

“Why not?”

Javert bared his teeth. “What if I met somebody I knew? Do you understand the shame I would feel if I met a colleague - a superior! - in my current condition?”

“You will need to leave the house some day.”

“Will you stop being sensible again!”

“I can teach you to disguise yourself.”

“Disguise myself! Do you remember the sixth of June, by any chance? Perhaps you remember where a disguise landed me that night?”

Valjean shook his head. “Let me teach you, then. Deception involves more than a change of clothes. The fresh air will be good for both of us.”

“Valjean -” Javert threw up his hands in exasperation, for he could not ignore the sudden gleam of interest that had returned to Valjean’s eye. “Fine. Let’s play at being criminals for an afternoon. God help me, I must be fully insane already.”

—

Javert begrudgingly had to admit that the fresh air was indeed pleasant, as was the sun that fell upon his face and neck. The warmth of it penetrated to his very marrow and the light breeze stirred against his skin, blowing away the layer of dust that seemed to have settled and dulled his senses over his long months of recovery. He began to understand why he had so craved that sunny spot in the study. Each new corner they turned brought new sounds, new scents, an unthinkable amount of new sights that caught his eye and drew his attention.

“Don’t stare like that,” said Valjean in an undertone. Only his nose and mouth were visible beneath his workman’s cap. “You’ll draw attention to yourself.”

“Then how am I supposed to see?”

“You glance, if you must, and let your eyes slide off them like water. But mostly you don’t look. You keep your head down and the world will ignore you in turn.”

“Ignore me?” repeated Javert incredulously. “I am half a head taller than most people here.”

“Slump your shoulders, then. Like this. People don’t look too closely.” Valjean anticipated his next remark and corrected himself. “People who aren’t inspectors. Even you were fooled in Montreuil, weren’t you?”

“I had my suspicions,” muttered Javert.

“I am sorry that I deceived you for so long. I promise you it was not my intention, and I derived no joy from it.”

“I do not care what your intentions were,” said Javert, a little harsher than intended; the humiliation of the whole affair still stung. “Let’s not discuss it.”

Valjean fell silent. Javert did as he was bid and attempted to loosen the brittle stiffness of his back - at least the cane prevented him from folding his arms in his customary haughty stance. The work clothes that Valjean had dug out of some unused gardner's wardrobe were surprisingly comfortable, even if the low cap obscured his field of vision and made him feel vaguely like a blinkered horse.

“I would like to rest soon,” he murmured. “My leg hurts.”

“Of course. There is a park just around the corner here, I believe.”

Valjean led him through the park until they found a bench secreted away in a corner. A thicket of rose bushes and a small fountain hid them from view. Javert supposed he should admire the tranquility of the sight, but he found himself too exhausted to. He pulled the cap lower on his face and listened to the flowing water, rustling leaves, and distant bustle of the city rumbling all around him. This was pleasant, he had to admit. He knew the streets of Paris better than the back of his hand but he had never experienced them at so slow a pace before. He had never explored the city purely for the pleasure of it; there had never been time.

After a few minutes’ comfortable silence he heard Valjean stand up and walk away. Javert lifted his cap and watched him approach a nearby food cart, peruse the food on offer, and purchase something - two things - from the proprietor. Javert groaned and let the cap cover his face again as Valjean returned.

“Those carts are not remotely clean,” he said as Valjean sat.

“You survived the river. I imagine you will survive one questionable pastry.”

“I don’t want it.”

“I shall throw it to the ducks, then.”

Javert grumpily sat up and snatched the pastry from his hand. He bit in and made a face when the sharp fruit filling stung his tongue, but after a moment he found himself taking a second bite. Valjean tucked in to his own with visible satisfaction. Few people passed by their secluded corner, and those that did draw near took no notice of them. The sky turned pink with the approaching sunset. When he breathed, he smelled roses and loam. 

“How does deception feel now?” asked Valjean, smiling. Javert’s contentment must have showed on his face. He scowled and shoved the rest of the pastry into his mouth rather than reply.

Once finished, Valjean stood and offered Javert his hand. Javert stared at it, hesitantly took hold of that broad palm, and felt himself smoothly hefted to his feet. He immediately pulled his hand away once he found his balance. “Thank you,” he grunted. 

“Thank you for drawing me from my bed,” said Valjean softly, barely audible above the hum of the city around them.

Javert flexed his hand, attempting to rid his fingers of the memory of Valjean’s touch. After a moment he shoved it into a pocket to be rid of it. “Don’t lie to your housekeeper next time,” he grumbled, turning away. “Let’s go.”

—

The next week or so passed in much the same manner; every day, come rain or shine, they would put on their disguises and take a short walk through the city. Valjean took them through a different meandering route each day, but there were always constants: they would find somewhere to rest, Valjean would disappear to buy some kind of indulgent snack for them both, Javert would grouse, and Valjean would listen silently and smile and help him to his feet once they had finished.

They spoke little when they returned from their evening meanders and the prison of the house closed its fist on them again. Javert rarely saw Valjean during the day, but when they met in the hallway and readied themselves for their walk he often caught the older man glancing upwards with a look of utter misery on his face. Javert surreptitiously followed his gaze and realised it landed squarely on the upstairs quarters where Cosette dwelled.

 Does the girl not care? he thought furiously. What kind of daughter becomes so wrapped up in her idiot fiancé that she neglects her idiot father for weeks? What a circus this family was!

“You are fattening me like a pig,” Javert complained once they reached the park. A bruised purple mist was rolling over the city and threatening rain but they huddled on a park bench nonetheless. He could feel the cold damp pressing against his skin. Valjean moved a little closer to share the thin wafer he had bought; the warmth of his thigh as it brushed Javert’s made the mist seem suddenly distant.

“I don’t think a couple of extra pounds will do either of us any harm,” said Valjean, but there was no joy in his voice. It wasn’t enough, Javert realised. An hour of losing oneself in idle pleasures meant nothing when the other twenty-three in the day were black with loss and loneliness. He knew the truth of that deeply. Valjean moved away once the wafer was broken, and the moment of warmth was lost.

Javert’s moments of peace in the waking hours did not translate to restful nights; if anything, the fitful visions that writhed and clutched at him only grew worse. That night he woke in a cold sweat and clutched impulsively at the tinderbox, then realised that the room was already pale with cold dim light; dawn was breaking. He fell back onto the bed and pressed his fingers to his aching eyes as he tried to steady his breath. The nightmare already seemed insubstantial but there had been pain, and chattering teeth, and wet clothes stuck slick to his freezing skin, and cold hard hands that grasped and lifted -

A faint noise from above broke into his reverie. He glanced upwards, listening intently. A door opened and closed softly, and he recognised Cosette’s light step moving across the floor. The girl seemed to barely inhabit the house at all these days, only returning to sleep until she slipped away again at sunrise. He found he couldn’t fault her desire to escape. 

Escape, escape. He found his eyelids slipping shut. The walks had been a balm at first, but somehow they were suffocating him as surely as staying inside would have. What was the point of having a glimpse of sweetness - sun in his eyes, a taste of sugar on his tongue, quiet laughter in his ears and a warm hand on his own - when it lasted only for a moment and made his return to despair seem even blacker in comparison? He flexed his fingers sharply. What cruelty was this that tormented him with impossibilities? 

Distantly he heard Cosette hurry down the stairs. He could leave. He could take care of himself from now on, leave this house and eke out a miserable existence on the margins until it all became too much to bear. Surely it would be better to suffer so than to continue this - this terrible uncertain course that made his heart ache and batter frantically against his bruised ribs. His hand convulsed again, snapping open and shut like a steel trap. This could not go on. Something had to break - either Javert’s sanity, or Valjean’s (no, no! he would not allow that!), or - or -

The sound of a door closing jolted him from his thoughts; Cosette had left the house. He pressed a trembling hand to his forehead and tried to think, think, think through the problem as he would have in the old days. There had to be a solution, a way to neatly connect and draw all the pieces together to solve the mystery. If not, he would damn well break a piece to make it fit.

He lay still in his bed as sunlight slowly flooded into the room, and he thought, and thought, and thought.