Title: creatures and convicts
Work ID: 31179071
Author: r_foudroye
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Barricades, Like, during that one bit u know what i mean, just a tortured little man being as he is, Same-Prompt Fic Challenge (Les Misérables)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Valjean led Javert out of the back room with a strangely gentle hand on his back. 


To lull him into a false sense of security, no doubt.
How ridiculous.
He was going to kill him anyway.
Painfully, most likely. A convict couldn’t be trusted to make it quick.
Why didn’t he just get on with it?


Javert wanted to say that there was no point, no point to any of this, to just kill him already-
And then Valjean pushed him against the wall.
He set his gun aside.
Javert twitched.
Valjean’s brow furrowed in a too-familiar gesture of concern. 


Feigned. Flawed. A lie. All this time, a lie. Convict, convict, convict. 


He drew a knife. Of course. Why wouldn’t he?
Valjean drew closer, holding the knife carefully at his side.
Javert’s eyes were fixed on the glinting blade of it, considering how easily it would- 

“Inspector.”

Javert did not look up. 

“...Javert.”

He did not move.
Valjean did, however, and Javert saw that thin blade get closer and closer, until-

“Please look at me. I cannot- I- you see- ah-”
“You would like to better slit my throat, yes.”
“What-? No- you misunderstand.”

Javert barked out a laugh, a cold and choked thing. 

“No. No, I think I understand quite well.”

Valjean raised his hand.
Javert suppressed a growl.
Valjean touched his cheek.
Javert’s instinct took hold and he recoiled, hitting his back against the wall.

“Please- let me-”
“Do what you must, convict.”

Valjean sighed and touched Javert’s face again, bringing his fingertips to press lightly against Javert’s jaw, tilting it up. 


He shuddered at the touch, far too gentle to make sense. Convict, convict, convict. 


He brought the knife up, closer and closer to the dip of his throat. Javert stared at the wall past Valjean. 


So this is how it would end. At the hands of a man who had every right to hate him.


Valjean was pushing aside his collar with hands that should have been too rough to be so gentle.
Convict. 


He was not some dog, to be treated gently before being put out of its misery. He was not some wild thing to be pacified and comforted. 


He did not realize they both had been trembling. 

And then Valjean had cut through the ties around his neck. And his hands were moving to Javert’s arms, his wrists, cutting the ropes there.
Javert stood taut and tense against the wall, waiting for his life to be cut away by a well-placed flick of a knife. 

He knew it would not be difficult. He had seen it before, of course. Convicts, convicts, convicts, if they were not before then they would be after, they were all the same. Creatures. Not to be trusted. Any information offered by a known convict for the benefit of the Police is to be scrutinized. Another arrest, another convict, another criminal.
He knew the order. 

And then Valjean was close, too close, and his knife was put back in its sheath, and Valjean’s hands were at his collar, retying his sweat-soaked cravat, and the world was spinning and reeling before him, and the ground seemed to tilt and roil like the Seine after a storm, and-


And Valjean was fixing his collar and running his hands down to straighten his waistcoat and adjusting his sleeves-


And just as Valjean had pulled a bizarrely clean handkerchief from G-d knows where and bringing it to his lips and reaching to rub some dirt off Javert’s face, Javert came to his senses all at once. 

He swatted Valjean’s hands away, too-sharply aware of the vulnerability of his position against the wall.
“What? Have you not killed me yet? How much longer will you prolong this, two-four-six-oh-”
“No. In- Javert. You are free. You can go, I will not stop you.”

Javert eyed him warily. Valjean made to step away, moving back and to the side, the hand holding the knife dropping to his side-
Canne position 1.
Move to the side, change guards, attack. 
Javert lunged for the knife at Valjean’s side.
He seized it and shoved the handle into Valjean’s palm, grasping the hand and knife as one and pressing them to his chest, the knife-tip against his heart. 

He was so close that Valjean’s arm was drawn all the way back, that a single slight push might plunge the knife into his flesh.
Valjean’s breath was hot and trembling on his neck as Javert towered over the man, holding him fast and terrified in the alleyway.
Valjean could escape. Javert knew he had the strength to. 


His heart beat a trembling tattoo in his ribcage. His chest heaved. Convicts, convicts, convicts. And here was a policeman, in their grasp! How could he resist? 


He could see the rippling muscles under the man’s shirt, trembling with- something. 

But it seemed just, then, that it would end like this.
He pulled his face into a wretched grin and tightened his hold on Valjean’s wrist, pressing the blade against the thick wool of his greatcoat. 

He drew himself up even further, summoning every ounce of fear he had ever drawn from a criminal, looming and terrible and-

And Valjean had gone still in his grasp.
As Javert blinked, he saw Valjean’s expression- not of terror, not even of hate.
He had a look of utmost fondness about him.
It was infuriating.
Javert growled from the back of his throat, pressing somehow closer and leaning down until his forehead almost touched Valjean’s.
Valjean did not flinch. He did not even have the good sense to look afraid. 

In fact, the man snorted, a tiny sound he obviously tried to hide.
Javert brought the knife closer, but- merde- somewhere in that time, Valjean had managed to drop it into his free hand and back in its sheath.
Javert’s eyes flew to the damned thing.
The sheath was closed, shut with its little latch. 


Convicts. 


So he turned his glare upon Valjean, who still looked frustratingly endeared.
Javert boiled with anger. 

“What is it, convict.”
Valjean blinked.
“Q- quoi?”
He smiled, then.
Javert seethed.
“It is just- ah- there is dirt upon your nose.”
Javert blinked. 

And in that second of confusion, Valjean had freed himself and was standing just out of arm’s reach of Javert. 

Change guards, dodge, attack. Attack. Attack, G-d damn it, why are you just standing there?

Bizarrely, Valjean stepped closer. He took Javert’s hands in his, covering them with his work-worn fingers.
Javert pressed against the wall at this, shuddering, shaking.
Valjean brought Javert’s hands to his lips.
Javert suppressed a flinch.
Valjean looked up. His expression was- it did not make sense.
How could a criminal, a ruffian, a convict, be so gentle?

“If- Javert. If we survive this, you- you know where to find me. Now go.”

And somehow, he went.