Title: Deserved punishment
Work ID: 37255069
Author: paladiknight
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Chabouillet/Javert (Les Misérables)
Additional Tags: 
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1





Javert is a good hunting dog. Numerous people have said so.
His Achilles tendon is slender but strong and athletic, his legs are full of muscle wrapped in a solid skeleton, and his iliac bones are thin and narrow, allowing him to catch thieves with his feet like flying. He is far broader than the average hound, and visually thinner, but actually has extremely strong and elastic fibrous tissue, these muscles work flexibly under his light golden skin over the years, supporting him to capture bandits and hunt down murderers.
Mobility alone is not enough to be a good hunting dog, what makes Javert proud is his sensitive nose. He seemed to have a gift that other colleagues envied - the ability to remember any smell he had smelled or sniffed since he could remember, whether he intended to or not: the wooden box in which his mother kept her fortune-telling bear's teeth, the sour smell of sweat under the cloth shirts of each prisoner in Toulon, the smell of blood under the chains that collided, the musty and salty smell of seawater soaking through the deck, the pungent smell of limes The pungent smell of being squeezed, the smell of straw dried grains, the rotten smell between the teeth of the wolf-breed prisoners, the sour fermented smell of bad wine, the smell of sweat and glands emanating from the confinement cell that was so hot that it was almost boiled, the fishy hot smell that the swollen sex organs of the wolf-breed prisoners could not hide ......
Sha Wei bit his lower lip and turned his attention back. This is a very formal occasion. He reminded himself in his mind. He was about to become the new "sheepdog" of the seaside town, and the mayor of the Pan Sheep, who had a pair of heavy curved horns and large, heavy pupils in his eyes, was about to become his new "master.
He did not know why the memory of Toulon would suddenly come to his door and grab him by the throat. In doubt, he even went out of his way to ask the mayor of the sheep: "Have we met before?" After being swept by the pupils of the stolid sheep and denied by the Mayor's eyelids that did not flutter once, Javert became more and more guilty like the errant puppy. He always keenly erected ears back slightly, the tip of the ear laid flat, as if he had been pointed at the nose scolded, bowed to the mayor formal goodbye.
How could he have such a wrong idea? Javert questioned himself in his mind. It was Toulon, where the carnivorous beasts were imprisoned, and how could he let his nose associate with the sinful wolves in prison when faced with such a respected, heavy woolen, majestic and dignified pan sheep in his stride?
Whenever he was in the same room with the mayor, the face of the sinful wolf who should be rotting in prison came to his mind, but when he covered his mouth and sniffed the air, there was not a trace of sin. He could only smell the odor of a decent gentleman, a heavy and tidy beast, a powerful ram, the odor of tidy straw, rumbling wool yards, sun-dried wood, unadulterated by copper, which only made him respect the mayor more and more.
Javert had to admit that he appreciated the mayor's heavy-skinned majesty, broad shoulders, sunken eyes, and he couldn't forget the mayor's poise when he walked into the room with a slight lift of his hand, his unhurried steadiness under his heavy horns, his aura of prestige when he approached Javert. Javert, as the one with sharp teeth and paws, as the hound that crawls in the marketplace, wanted to submit to the majesty of this powerful herbivore and be his faithful sheepdog, a foolish thought that appeared suddenly but was hard to suppress. He could only try to avoid meeting the mayor's eyes, and when reporting on his mission, he lowered his back more and more respectfully, with his tail tucked between his legs.
However, the mayor did not let him go. The sheep's eyes pressed heavily on his bowed back, like a boulder grinding across the raised bones at the back of his neck, and Javert's tightly corseted neckline couldn't stop the coarseness of the gaze, so he let it trigger a shudder that was suppressed in his uniform. Sha Wei several times want to ask but can not speak, can only shut his mouth and bow his head, sinking deeper into the mayor meaningless reverence and suspicion.
The problem was the moment the mayor lifted the car, even for a sheep in the prime of life, he showed a surprising amount of strength. Once again, Javert couldn't help thinking of a certain sinful wolf with a record of extreme danger written on his file, of his bulging muscles and dripping sweat as he lifted the mast like a dead log, the prison records repeatedly stating that 24601 had unbelievably sharp teeth and claws, reminding the guards to be on their guard. And Javert would never forget the power of those white teeth: the sharp white teeth had left a bloodstain along with the wolf's low barking laugh with just a touch at the side of Javert's suppressed whimpering throat.
He suppressed the false recollection caused by his nose again and went back to write a letter to Chabrier. He had a unique feline grace that Javert both respected and feared, and his unhurried and unhurried demeanor convinced Javert when they first met. Javert still can't believe that Chabrier chose him over the other hounds that day, and in his time away from Toulon, Javert has always followed the teachings of this mentor and friend, including Javert's transfer to this thriving seaside town, which was also the work of Chabrier.
Chabrier's reply arrived soon afterwards, the report of Jean Valjean's arrest from the Parisian police department a sharp blow to Javert's nose, in which Chabrier wrote sharply that Javert should stop thinking about the wolf and focus on the town's prosperity and his own promotion.
Promotion. Yes, promotion. Javert remembered the conversation in Chabrier's study before he left, snuggled up with the smell of wine, perhaps he was destined to disappoint the two majestic officers, the two "masters" in power today. Javert stood in front of the mirror and fed each button into the buttonhole, gazed at his lips and eyes, dressed up and went to the mayor to apologize.
The mayor was shocked by Javert's foolishness, but if he felt the same weight of anger, he did not show it. The good gentleman restrained his words and actions well and did not reprimand his subordinate for a single moment. Yet this gentleness made Javert roll on pins and needles, and his nostrils made the kind of thin sound that is characteristic of a dog's eager plea for an appropriate punishment.
The mayor can not understand this, he is after all a ram, and do not understand the hounds like Sha Wei from a young age will be trained to do what they are told, the inertia of reward and punishment has been soaked into the marrow. Doing the wrong thing is punished, do the right thing is rewarded, captured a habitual thief, a slightly better than usual meal and accompanied by Chabrier "good boy" on the forehead or neck and shoulders of the touch, it is enough to let the Sha Wei tingling, slightly spit tongue intoxicated with the law on the right to defend the justice. And when he does something wrong, a crisp whip, a boot, a chastisement, he deserves it, not to mention the unforgivable mistake of questioning his superiors.
"I will not fire you, the town needs you, go back Inspector." Madeline made the gesture of expulsion, he still looked grave, calm and full of heart, now Javert's ears were completely back to the back of his head, he tore his lower lip with his teeth, not knowing how to get the share of discipline he deserved. He couldn't just walk back to the post, he couldn't eat, patrol and pray without being disciplined. The horrible pain of escaping chastisement would consume him as he lay in bed. He whimpered, pinning his ears and tail, pressing his body lower, even trying to bring his wet nose closer to Madeline's calloused hands, praying for a reprimand and a smack strong enough to hurt for half a month. But Madeline refused to give him any pain.
Madeleine was distracted. Jean Valjean had been captured? Had they captured another wolf similar to themselves? The wolf under the sheep's skin thought with bated breath, wishing only that Javert would leave immediately, taking their trivial past with him, leaving Valjean alone with his conscience for a while. But Javert had never really obeyed him, and the hound of the law suddenly knelt at Jean Valjean's feet, his hands trembling slightly but with a nervous determination, and brought the hand that should have held the baton to the spot where Valjean's genitals were under his cloak. Jean Valjean jumped away as if he had been burned by fire. "What are you doing Javert?!"
"Please ......" Javert's ears went back in that all-submissive, frightened gesture, "please allow me to serve ...... " He sputtered up, this service is hidden, potential, do not need to say the existence of, Sha Wei is not adept at this, however in prison he had also learned how to serve the superior with the mouth and lips, how to wrap sharp sharp teeth, only with lips and tongue to lick. This is only the service that subordinates should do when the noble male superior is in dire need of venting, and sometimes comes with a sign of respect, a symbol of submission. And the nobleman allowed the lowly man like Javert to serve, that is also a proof of trust, far more intimate trust than the sword dropped on the shoulder. This is how Javert understood it. When he knelt before Chabrier's knee, he did not feel dirty or humiliated, it was just a service that included respect. Thus, when the mayor was angry but not on him, and refused to give him a painful whipping, he knelt down.
Jean Valjean could not understand this. His legs trembled and he stepped back, he had never really done many of the things that a man in such a position should do, too simple, too kind, too upright, all these qualities that add to the false identity while making it alien to the class, all made him never see such a dilemma.
What's more, it was Javert kneeling in front of his eyes.
Was Javert whimpering? Was that tiny, puppy-like sound really from Javert? Jean Valjean, in his distress, still had the strength to think about this, how different it was from the Javert he remembered. The cold-faced young jailer sniffed with his nose for any trace of sin, the cold and ruthless embodiment of a prison, that was all Valjean thought of Javert. Yet he would not say that this Javert was all that strange. In that confinement cell, on the night when Javert had been forced into heat by the hormones of a female dog, Valjean still remembered the way he had been forced to kneel under him, trembling like a female dog on his knees to withstand the hard and heavy pounding, the wolf who had not been drugged but had not really given out for years, inflicting all his wickedness on the jailer who prayed for mercy. That was definitely wrong, but he couldn't forget the joy of being circled tightly when he grabbed Javert's long tail and pulled it back, he only had to shake his waist gently, and the cold jailer fell to his knees and trembled with excessive stimulation, to the point where Javert couldn't even support himself on his elbows, his forehead on the ground, panting with his tongue, making a pitiful whimper like a puppy, a sound that would make Valjean sympathize with him when he was calm, but full of The evil Jean Valjean, however, only inflicted heavier and heavier stabbing into his tight little mouth under the wet tail of bodily fluids.
Was it the same with Javert at that time, with his hairy ears back, feeling aggrieved and uncomfortable, bowing forward and praying for relief? Valjean wouldn't say he couldn't remember. The touch and the rhythm of the impact were still in his mind, surfacing now and then in the blank gaps of scripture recitation in the evenings after his prayers. And now Javert, eager and thirsty again, approached the image of the ram he had forged, praying for the opportunity to be served and flogged with his lips and tongue ......
Javert could not control himself whimpering in his throat, not knowing how to get the opportunity to be chastised. Should he suck on the mayor's finger to prove that he can use his lips and tongue properly? Was it because of his foolish appearance that the mayor didn't even bother to take his energy out on him? The shadow of the ram loomed over him again before he was almost disheartened enough to get up and leave to go kneel in church all night to pray for God's chastisement. Madeleine's hand on his shoulder was like a thousand pounds, giving him what Javert had prayed for.
"You can do what you want, but since it is you this eye and this nose that confesses me wrong, close your eyes and hold your breath in my service."
Javert squeezed his eyes shut and knelt with bated breath in front of Madeleine's chair, fumbling with the hem of the heavy cloak. Valjean allowed him to untie it, revealing the wolf's torso. Jean Valjean knew that Javert would not open his eyes or sniff, and that under the weight of the command Javert would swallow him until he could not bear one more ounce. He didn't even try to block the sensitive hound's view with a cloth or something, just sat in his chair and looked down at Javert.
And Javert, even if he closed his eyes, the posture of that majestic ram would still appear in the darkness of his sight. He was serving such a distinguished gentleman. Javert told himself that his slight trembling was all because of this, but even as he swallowed with bated breath, torturing his throat with the unimaginable size of the ram, a whiff of the smell still wafted into his senses. He closed his eyes tightly, the length of Madeleine by imagination to feel simply horrible, yet the shadow of that sinful wolf suddenly intruded into Javert's thoughts, and he suddenly felt in his mouth again that sinful wolf's stuff, with the fishy smell of the prison pressed above the guard's lips, and he had to swallow it in exchange for the sinful wolf to help him with that unspeakable pain in the narrow dark room. When Javert finally swallowed Madeleine into his throat, the tip of his nose was also deep into the hair at the end of the ram's sex organ, the smell of 24601 was suddenly so strong that he gagged. But Javert didn't move a muscle, he pinched his palm, tensed the arch of his foot, ears back, and continued to lick Madeline's burning sex, praying that Mr. Mayor would release him before he made a complete mess.

 

 

 

 

 

 

沙威是条好猎犬。无数人这样说过。
他跟腱纤细却结实矫健，双腿肌肉饱满地裹紧在坚实的骨架上，髂骨瘦窄，让他捉捕盗贼时能提足如飞。他远比一般猎犬要身形宽大些，视觉上也更为消瘦，实际却拥有极为结实有弹性的纤维组织，这些肌肉经年累月灵活运转于他浅金色的表皮下，支撑着他捕获盗匪，追击凶手。
光是行动灵活还不足以成为好猎犬，令沙威引以为傲的是他那敏感的鼻子。他似乎有种令其他同事嫉羡的天赋——能记住自他懂事以来闻过、嗅过的任何一种味道，无论他是否有意去记忆：他母亲存放着算命熊齿的木盒，土伦一个个犯人布衫下的酸臭汗味，串联相撞铁链下的血气，海水浸透甲板的霉味与咸味，酸橙被挤压的刺鼻味，稻草晒干的谷物味，狼种囚犯牙缝间的腐臭味，劣质葡萄酒的酸涩发酵味，禁闭室里闷热到几乎被煮沸的汗味与腺体发散的味道，狼种囚犯肿胀性器遮掩不住的腥热味……
沙威猛咬住自己的下唇，将注意力转移回来。这是非常正式的场合。他在心里提醒自己。他即将成为海滨小镇新的“牧羊犬”，面前这位拥有一对沉重弯角，眼瞳大而凝重的盘羊市长，即将成为自己的新“主人”。
他不知道为何土伦的记忆会突然找上门来，扼住他的咽喉。在犹疑之中，他甚至出格地询问这位盘羊市长：“我们可曾见过？”被那凝重的羊的瞳仁扫了一眼，被镇长那眼睑一下也不颤动地样子否定后，沙威像犯错的小狗般越发内疚起来。他总敏锐竖起的耳朵略向后方背去，耳尖铺平了，仿佛已经被指着鼻子叱骂了一番似的，向市长拘谨地鞠躬道别。
他怎么会有这种错误的想法呢？沙威在心里质问自己。那是土伦，关押食肉野兽的地方，面对这样一位德高望重、身披厚沉羊毛，步履款款威仪无限的盘羊，他怎么能任由自己的鼻子去联想牢狱中的罪狼？
然而他一贯信赖的鼻子这回却硬是要与他作对，每当他和市长共处一室，那头理应烂在监狱中的罪狼的嘴脸便浮现在他脑海之中，但他掩嘴细嗅空气中的蛛丝马迹时，却又没有一丝一毫罪恶的踪影。他只闻得到一位体面的绅士，一只毛发厚重整洁的尊兽，一只一只力大无穷的公羊的气味，那是整洁稻草、轰隆羊毛场、晒干木头散发出的气味，不掺铜臭，这气味只会让他越发敬重市长。
沙威不得不承认，他欣赏市长那厚重皮毛的威仪，宽阔的双肩，沉凝的双目，他也无法忘怀市长走进房间时微微抬手示意的风度，他沉重双角下不疾不徐的稳重，他靠近沙威时所威积的气场。沙威，作为有利齿与尖爪的那个，作为在市井间摸爬滚打的猎犬，却想臣服在这强健食草动物的庄严下，做他忠实的牧羊犬，这愚蠢心思出现得突然，却难以压抑。他只能尽量避免与市长双目相交，汇报任务时越发恭谨地将脊背放低，尾巴紧夹在双腿之间。
然而市长并不放过他。盘羊的双目沉重地压在他躬起的脊背上，像一块巨石磨过他颈后凸起的骨节，沙威紧紧束住脖颈的领口无法阻拦这目光的粗粝，只得任由它引发一阵压抑在制服中的战栗。沙威几次想询问却无法开口，只能闭口低头，更深地沉入对市长毫无意义的崇敬与怀疑之中。
问题出在市长将那大车抬起的瞬间，即便对一头正值壮年的盘羊来说他表现出的力气也大到惊人了。沙威再次无法自控地想到某只档案上写满了极度危险记录的罪狼，想到他鼓胀起的肌肉与淋漓的汗水，他抬起桅杆如同抬起一节枯木，监狱记录上反复申明24601拥有无比锋利的牙齿与指爪，提醒守卫们严加提防。而沙威永远不会忘记那副白牙的厉害：锋利的白牙曾在沙威压抑低吟的喉管边只是轻轻一触，就伴随着狼低低的吠笑留下一道血痕。
他将那再次由鼻子引起的错误回想压下，回去写了一封信给的夏布耶。雄豹夏布耶对沙威是人生导师般的存在，他身上有一种沙威又敬又怕的独属猫科动物的优雅，而他处变不惊、不疾不徐的风度在初次见面时便令沙威折服。沙威至今也不敢相信那天夏布耶选择了自己而非其他猎犬，离开土伦的日子里，沙威一直都遵从着这位良师益友的教诲，包括沙威被调职到这座欣欣向荣的海滨小镇也是夏布耶的手笔。
夏布耶的回信很快送到他的案边，来自巴黎警署的冉阿让逮捕报告在沙威鼻上来了一记猛击，夏布耶在信中笔记锋利地写着让沙威停止惦念那恶狼，将精力集中在小镇的繁荣与自己的升职之上。
升职。是的，升职。沙威想起临行前在夏布耶书房中那次依偎着酒气的谈话，也许他今天注定要让两位威严的长官，两位执掌权柄的“主人”失望了。沙威站在镜前将每一颗纽扣送入扣眼，凝视着自己的口唇与眼眸，整装整齐后，去向市长请罪。
市长对沙威愚蠢的行为大为震惊，但如果说他也感到同样分量的愤怒的话，他并没有表现出来。这位好绅士很好地克制住了他的言行，没有对下属进行一分一毫的斥责。然而这温和却让沙威如滚针毡，他鼻腔中发出狗儿特有的那种急切恳求时才会有的细响，请求一个恰如其分的处罚。
市长无法理解这个，他毕竟是一只公羊，并不懂像沙威这样的猎犬从幼时便被训练得令行禁止，奖惩分明的惯性已浸透骨髓。做错事被惩罚，做对事受奖赏，捕获了一名惯偷时，一顿比平常略好些的饭食以及伴随着夏布耶一声“good boy”落在额头或颈肩上的抚摸，就足够让沙威浑身酥麻，微吐舌头陶醉于对法律对正义恰如其分的维护之中。而当他做错事时，一记清脆的鞭打，一只靴子的狠踢，一声责辱，都是他应得的，更何况他这次犯下了质疑上级这样罪不容赦的错误。
“我不会开除你，小镇需要你，回去吧探长。”玛德琳做着驱逐的手势，他看起来仍然凝重、沉稳且满腹心事，这下沙威的耳朵彻底背到脑后去了，他用牙齿撕咬着下唇，不知该如何获取他应得的那份惩戒。他不可能就这样走回哨所去，他无法不受惩戒就去饮食、巡逻、祈祷。当他躺在床上时，这可怖的逃脱责罚的痛苦会将他吞噬。他呜咽着垂耳夹尾，将身体压得更低，甚至想将湿漉漉的鼻子靠近玛德琳满是老茧的双手，祈求一声训斥与一记力道大得足以疼痛半月的抽打。然而玛德琳拒绝给予他任何痛苦。
玛德琳心烦意乱。冉阿让被抓捕了？他们抓住了另一只和自己相似的狼吗？这在羊皮下的狼屏息思考着，他只希望沙威立刻离开，带着他们琐乱的前尘旧事离开，让冉阿让与他的良心独自待上一会。然而沙威从不曾真正服从于他，这法律的猎犬突然跪在冉阿让脚前，双手略微颤抖着却又带着一种神经质的果断，将理应握着警棍的手伸向冉阿让大氅下生殖器的位置。冉阿让像被火烫到般跳开。“你在做什么Javert？！”
“请您……”沙威的耳朵向后背去，那是一种全然臣服的，惊惧的姿态，“请您允许我服侍……”他吐字不清起来，这种服务是隐秘的，潜在的，不必言说的存在，沙威并不精于此道，然而在监狱他也曾学会如何用口唇去服侍上级，如何包住尖锐的利齿，只用唇舌去舔舐。这只是尊贵的雄性上级亟待发泄时下属应做的服务，有时也附带一种尊崇的示意，一种臣服的象征。而尊贵者允许卑贱如沙威这样的人服侍，那也是一种信任的证明，远比将剑落于肩膀上更亲昵的信赖。沙威是如此理解这事的。当他跪在夏布耶膝前时，他并不觉得肮脏或耻辱，这只是一种包含尊敬的服务。因而当市长愠怒却不发作于他身上，不肯给予他一顿痛快的鞭打时，他跪了下来。
冉阿让却不能理解这个。他双腿颤抖着后退，他从不曾真正做过这样一个地位的人应做的许多事，过于简朴，过于善良，过于正直，所有这些在为假身份增光添彩的同时又让其与阶层格格不入的特质，都让他从未见过这样的窘境。
更何况，那是沙威跪在他的眼前。
沙威是在呜咽吗？那小狗儿一样的细小的声音，真的是沙威发出来的吗？冉阿让在困窘之中仍有余力去想这点，这和他印象中的沙威是多么不一样啊。冷着脸的年轻狱卒用鼻子细嗅着任何一丝罪恶的踪迹，一座监狱冷酷无情的化身，这就是冉阿让对沙威的全部想法。然而他又不会说这样的沙威是全然陌生的。在那个禁闭室里，在沙威被下了雌犬的激素被迫发情的晚上，冉阿让仍记得他被迫跪在自己身下的模样，雌犬般战栗着双膝着地承受过狠过重的冲击，虽然没被下药，却也数年没有真正发泄过的狼将一腔邪火全都施加在祈求怜悯的狱卒身上。那绝对是错误的，但他无法忘记紧抓住沙威长尾向后拉拽时被圈紧的极乐，他只需轻轻摇动下腰，那冷酷的狱卒就跪趴在地上颤抖着忍受着过分的刺激，到后来沙威甚至无法靠手肘支撑起自己，他额头着地，吐舌喘息着，发出幼犬般凄惨可怜的呜呜声，一种会让冷静时的冉阿让同情于他，满腔邪火的冉阿让却只会施加越发重地捅进他被体液搅湿尾巴下紧闭小口的声音。
那时的沙威是否也是这样，将毛茸茸的耳朵向后背去，感到委屈不解，躬身向前祈求着解脱？冉阿让不会说自己记不清了。那触感和撞击的节奏仍在他脑海中，在他祈祷后的晚上时而浮现于经文记诵的空白间隙里。而现在的沙威，又急切又渴求地靠近他所伪造出的公羊的形象，祈求用唇舌获得服务与鞭笞的机会……
沙威无法自控地在喉咙里呜咽着，不知该怎样才能得到被责罚的机会。他应当吮吸市长的手指来证明自己会恰如其分地使用唇舌吗？是否是因为他那愚笨的样貌让市长甚至不屑将精力发泄在他身上？在他几乎要心灰意冷地起身离开，去教堂里跪上整夜祈求天主的责罚前，公羊的阴影再次笼罩了他。玛德琳放在他肩膀上的手如同千斤重担般，将沙威所祈求的，赐予了他。
“你可以做你想做的，但既然是你这眼这鼻将我认错，就合上你的双目，屏息着为我服务吧。”
沙威紧闭双眼，屏息着跪在玛德琳的椅子前，摸索着那厚重大氅的下摆。冉阿让任由他将它解开，露出狼的躯体来。冉阿让知道沙威不会睁眼，也不会去嗅闻，在命令重压之下的沙威会吞咽他直到自己不能再承受一丝一毫。他甚至没有想去用布条之类的东西遮挡这灵敏猎犬的视线，就只是坐在椅中，俯视着沙威。
而沙威，哪怕闭上眼睛，那雄壮公羊的姿态仍会出现在他视线所及的黑暗之中。他正为这样尊贵的先生服务着。沙威告诉自己他略微的发抖全是因此而来，但哪怕他屏息吞咽，用公羊那难以想象的硕大折磨着自己的喉咙时，一丝丝缕的气味仍飘进了他的感官。他紧闭着双眼，玛德琳的长度靠想象来感受简直可怖，然而那罪狼的影子又突然闯入沙威的思绪，他恍然觉得口中又是那罪狼的东西，带着监狱的腥臭压在守卫的口唇之上，他不得不吞咽下去，以换得罪狼帮他在狭窄暗室里解决那难言的痛苦。当沙威终于将玛德琳吞到喉中，鼻子尖也深入到公羊性器末端的毛发里时，24601的气味突然浓郁到令他作呕。但沙威分毫未动，他掐着掌心，紧绷着足弓，耳朵向后背着，继续舔舐玛德琳那勃勃燃烧的性器，祈求市长先生能在他彻底混乱前释放。