Title: Falling, Given Wings
Work ID: 39509001
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Angst, so much talk, Referenced Suicide Attempt, Implied/Referenced Self-Harm, Internalized Homophobia, Is this a date? The characters would like to know
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

 

The way of love is nota subtle argument.

The door thereis devastation.

Birds make great sky-circlesof their freedom.How do they learn it?

They fall, and falling,they’re given wings.

-Rumi

 

* * * * *

 

Jean Valjean awoke with a start, and a terrible feeling that something was amiss.  Once he took in his surroundings, he was no more reassured. There was Javert, still asleep, an arm flung around his waist.  He froze as everything came back to him:  the time on the barricades, the violence, the boy wounded and rescued, the flight through the sewers, Thenardier, Javert -  Javert.   Everything that had happened after he had found him missing from his doorstep.  Javert had clung to him when Valjean had found him on the quay, diverting him from the lure of the river.  Valjean hadn’t wanted to let the man out of his sight, and so it had been his turn to escort Javert home. When they arrived at his door, Javert had kissed him.  The haze of his exhaustion the other night had made Valjean nearly drunk, or what he imagined being drunk would be like.  He had stayed. He had kissed Javert back.  

After a life of chastity, to have fallen into bed with Javert of all people.  He had to admit that it hadn’t been like he had expected.  The brittle tension between them had broken in the face of their clumsiness, each amazed to find the other as inexperienced as himself.  Valjean remembered Javert last night, shockingly yielding, a look of desperation in his eyes.  After everything he had seen and experienced at the barricade and since, Valjean had found himself longing for human connection. That he could find something human in Javert, something that wanted to reach out and connect with him as well - that had shocked him, but Valjean didn’t have the strength to question it last night.  Now was the time for questions, he supposed, and they would have to come to terms with their actions.  Had Javert been toying with him?  What exactly did he intend now? 

Valjean squirmed out of Javert’s grip carefully, trying not to wake him.  Javert shifted and turned slightly in response to his movements, but did not wake.   Valjean watched his slow breathing, feeling slightly disconcerted, as Javert sleepily pulled the cover tighter.  Of course it must be true that Javert sleeps; naturally he must look vulnerable doing so.  None of this should be surprising.  But it had never occurred to Valjean to think of him so. For so many years, Javert had been the specter who had haunted the night.  Wherever he may have been, Valjean feared to see him around the next corner.  He represented all that he feared, in a human form.  Now his long hair was splayed across the pillow, and he wore nothing except the rather worn blankets.  Valjean remembered tangling his hands in that hair the other night, pulling it from the orderly queue, tugging and stroking while Javert leaned into the touch.  Valjean was surprised to find himself strongly tempted to touch him again, to run his hands through graying hair.  

As if he had sensed Valjean’s thoughts, Javert bolted awake, staring at him as if he were looking at a ghost.  

“You,” said Javert, almost an accusation.

“Me,” agreed Valjean.  It was too late to make his escape.  He sighed.  Earlier he had told Javert that he could do as he thought best with him, and he supposed it was time to make good on the promise.

“I’m surprised to see you still here,” he said after a moment.  He was calming down from the initial shock of finding Valjean still in his bed, gazing at him as if he had any business doing so.  

“Well, you have always thought the worst of me.  Even now.”

“I don’t know what I should think of you,” said Javert, roughly running a hand over his face and through his whiskers.

“You know what I told you.  You are still able to turn me in, if you see fit.”

“I cannot.  You know I couldn’t before, and now…  After you’ve had me like a common whore?” snapped Javert.  “You continue to degrade me.  You drag me through my degradation by staying here.”

Valjean, clearly distressed by the accusation, focused on the smallest part of it.  “You wanted me to leave?”

“I can’t get my mind around you.  Everything is,” Javert ignored Valjean’s question for the moment.  He looked around the room, as though the familiar setting would somehow have the question that would get him the answer he wanted.

“Javert -” 

“Everything is wrong.”

“I don’t understand,” said Valjean finally, with frustration.  “Last night, it seemed as though you wanted this to happen.”

“I suppose…I thought that you would take your revenge finally this new way.  That you might have my body if you still balked at killing me,” Javert admitted.  Last night, on his doorstep with Valjean, he had been so sure how it would go.  It would be painful, certainly, but through the pain it would drive out the doubt and anguish that afflicted him.  It would reassert what was right in the world.  Valjean would be shown to be a violent brute, a villain who could be turned in to the authorities without a second thought.  But it was the same in his bed as it had been at the Rue Mondétour: he had met with the real Jean Valjean in all his complexity and candor and damned kindness.  And he found himself drinking in touch from Valjean as though he had been dying of thirst.

At his words, though, Valjean sat back as if slapped.  He could not imagine that Javert had truly still expected harm at his hands.  There had been something feral about Javert at first, but Valjean had not thought for a moment that he was anything but willing.  

“It wasn’t what I imagined,” continued Javert finally, not meeting Valjean’s eyes.

“Javert, I … didn’t mean to harm you.”  When Javert said nothing, Valjean continued.  “I thought that you wanted what we did.”

“Don’t you see?” Javert turned on him with frustration.  “I did want it.  And then to have you touch me like a lover would, and to have you stay the night and not flee.  It’s all too much.  I never asked for this.”

Valjean could see that Javert was becoming overwhelmed, but he had no idea what to say.  It was new to him as well.

“I hadn’t thought to ask for this, either,” Valjean said.  He wondered how to put it into words in a way that would not further overwhelm Javert:  he had been desperate for a human connection.  He had been staying strong for others over the past few days, and had witnessed things he had hoped never to see.  When Javert had kissed him, he had breathed in the human warmth, and accepted unthinkingly.  

The pleasure of the past night had been greater than either of them was willing to admit.  Neither had ever been inclined to marry, or to make more transient connections in darkened rooms.  Javert’s work monitoring brothels increased his disgust for the practice.  He could not imagine what drove men to seek out the usually rather tired and sickly women who registered their activities with the police.  If his treacherous mind could better imagine seeking out a man for these pleasures - well - that was all the more reason to put it firmly out of mind.  Valjean had been more than he had dared to imagine, in any case.  Valjean continued to push the limits of Javert’s imagination.

“The thief I thought you were would have made his escape while I was sleeping,” said Javert.

“And you didn’t - take precautions?”  Valjean asked, having little idea of where Javert was going with any of this.

“It - it would have been right that way.  Not like this.”  The realization settled heavily on Javert then: when he had fallen asleep next to Valjean the other night, it had not been a simple act.  He had to acknowledge to himself that he had once more attempted to let Valjean go.  It was his last, feeble attempt at proving that the man was who he had always thought he was.  So Valjean wouldn’t kill him when given the opportunity; so he was surprisingly considerate.  He was still a thief and a fugitive at heart, and would surely make his escape when Javert’s back was turned.  This had been a last test, and it would have been so much easier on Javert had Valjean failed.  He would not have to turn Valjean in, and more importantly, he would be freed from these terrible doubts that threatened to tear him apart.  

And then there would be no brown eyes staring at Javert with concern and confusion. 

“Javert, I don’t know what is going on with you, but you are being impossible,” Valjean said.

“ I’m being impossible?”

“Yes!  You tell me that you only took me to bed to allow my  revenge on you?  Why?!  I don’t want to hurt you, Javert.  I thought that we had established that.”

Javert’s head was in his hands, facing away from Valjean at an angle.  He said nothing.

“And then you intended for me to leave, but told me nothing of the sort?”

“I thought that it would bring this to an end.”

“This can be the end.  We don’t have to ever see each other again.”  Valjean felt an unexpected pang as he said it.  He wondered what had Javert come to mean to him.

Javert was silent:  had all of the years come down to this?  There was no criminal he had pursued as long as he had Valjean, and now they rested across the bed from one another rather peacefully.  The conversation had gotten away from him, but he wasn’t sure how to get it back on track.  “I didn’t mean the end of seeing you.  Although I suppose that is part of it. The end of all this.”  Javert gestured helplessly.  

“You’ve lost me there.”

“The end of all this chaos.  This uncertainty,” said Javert.  He was very unaccustomed to talking about his feelings, and was having trouble producing the words that he needed.  He was not sure that he even wanted to - not for Valjean of all people.

“What chaos?  The unrest?”  Valjean still was not following.

“No.  The unrest in my heart, if I even have one.  I’ve always known my own direction.  It’s always seemed clear to me.  Now you’ve taken that away from me.”

“How so?  I don’t think that I have taken anything from you.”

Javert huffed quietly.  “It’s like this.  I have been determined to make my own destiny since I was a boy.  My mother foretold that I would be a bold leader among bandits, like my father but more successful.  Well.  As you see.  If I cannot escape her world entirely, I will at least stay on the right side of things.  I’ve dedicated my life to maintaining order, serving society as I thought was right.  I prided myself on being irreproachable.  And then you came along.  I’ll be damned, but I’m beginning to suspect that you’ve done more good than I ever have, and I have done nothing but persecute you for it.”

Valjean looked away.  “What’s past is past.  And did I not say that I would still cooperate if you brought me in?”

“You must see how that makes it worse?”

“I really don’t.”

“Let me be clear:   I do not want to turn you in, Valjean.  I thought that I did, but… I thought a lot of things.  I never expected this, any of this.  I never expected to want something so different from my duty.”

Valjean thought that he might be beginning to understand.  It was true, he thought, that Javert had always seemed to want very little other than to do his duty.  Valjean didn’t speak; he wanted to allow Javert to continue.

“I’m not explaining it well.  I suppose I never was much good first thing in the mornings.  Usually there’s no one here to see.”  Javert spoke as though each word were a physical effort.  “Listen, my portress will have a pot of coffee on by now.  I’ll go fetch us some, and maybe it will clear my head a bit.”

Javert gathered up his clothes from the previous night, dressing quickly without meeting Valjean’s eyes.  He headed downstairs.  If his portress was surprised by his sudden wish for a second mug of coffee, she said nothing.  When Javert returned to the small apartment carrying the coffee, this time he was not surprised to see Valjean still there.  He barely even minded the sight.  

Their hands brushed as Javert handed over the coffee.  Through sheer willpower, Javert avoided pulling away quickly.  He self-consciously sat down on the bed as far from Valjean as he could.

Valjean had spent the time Javert was gone thinking about what he had said, and about what he could have possibly meant.  

“Last night,” Valjean began hesitantly.  “On the quay, when I first found you.”

Javert’s eyes narrowed, and he ducked to sip at the coffee.  

“Are you trying to tell me that you were going to throw away your life simply because you didn’t want to turn me in?”

“No…”  Javert wondered how he could possibly make Valjean understand.  He didn’t particularly want Valjean to understand, that was the worst of it.  He had just wanted the confusion and pain to stop.  

“Well, then?”

“Everything was overwhelming.  Still is.”

“Still is?”

“Worse even,” said Javert, gesturing towards Valjean.

“Do you normally have these moods?” Valjean asked when Javert failed to elaborate. 

“Come, now, Valjean.  Everyone has moods.”

“Not like this.  I don’t think like this.”  Valjean sounded more confident than he felt - what did he know of other people’s moods, anyway?  He had long preferred to remain as isolated as possible, with the exception of Cosette.  

Javert was uncertain as well, for much the same reason.  Besides, if he were honest, while he occasionally had low moods, he had never felt so low as this, and had never before attempted to end his own life.

“What of it?” asked Javert impatiently.

“I was just thinking.  I believe I will stay with you until you are more recovered.”

“You cannot.  I’m due at the station house in an hour,” Javert said.  He made no move to go, though.  

“You really should take the day off.  You need rest.”

“I don’t need rest.  I need to stay busy.”

Valjean was considering all the possible ways that Javert could get himself in trouble if he returned to work that day.  There were the effects of exhaustion, and how vulnerable that could make Javert if he were to run into anyone who meant him harm.  But what Valjean really couldn’t get out of his head was the anguish in Javert’s eyes as he looked out over the Seine.  What might Javert attempt if let out of sight, alone except for his thoughts?

“You aren’t well.”

“No,” agreed Javert.

“I wish that you would stay here.  You should send word and take the day off.”

“I never take the day off.”

“What do you do when you get sick?”

“I rarely am sick.  Especially not sick enough to call off from work.”

“Sick or not, you almost died several times last night.”

Javert thought back to the previous night and the letter he had written to Gisquet.  He wondered how he could show his face in the Prefecture afterwards - his doing so was never part of the plan.  Part of Javert, the same part horrified by his actions of the previous night, was shocked that he had done such a thing, that he had even survived after such impertinence.  Another part of him felt wild and reckless, and was glad he had written what he did.  If anything, it felt like too little and too late.

Eventually, he gave in to Valjean’s argument: Javert agreed to send notice to the Prefecture that he was unable to resume his normal duties that day.  Valjean went to find a gamin with whom the message could be sent, which turned out to be a daunting task considering the recipient.  Javert wrote briefly to his commissaire, and Valjean penned a short letter to Cosette telling her that he would be away for at least a day.  He knew very little about what to do after a near-attempted suicide, but instinct told him not to leave Javert alone.  Letters sent, Valjean followed Javert’s lead and sat back down.  

“You really don’t have to stay here, you know,” Javert said to him. 

“I’m worried about what will happen if I don’t.”

“Don’t be.  It’s none of your concern anyway.”

“What if…” Valjean trailed off. “What if I wouldn’t mind it being my concern?”

“Then you are even more foolish than I had thought.”

“Who else is there to be concerned about you?”  

“Don’t you lecture me.  I remember what a loner you always were,” replied Javert.

There was a time when Valjean would not have found Javert’s life particularly lonely.  He had himself been very isolated during his time as Monsieur Madeleine, and had preferred it that way.  However, he had been part of a small family now for long enough that he found he pitied Javert’s apparent solitude.  

“That’s…you know that I have had my reasons for avoiding people.  I never knew who I could trust.  Even so, I have my daughter who shares my life.  I cannot tell her everything, but it is such a relief to live with a family who loves you.  You, on the other hand?  You live within the law; you have nothing to fear from friends.  Tell me the truth - if I had not come home with you, is there anyone whose company you would have sought out?  A friend?  Another inspector?”

Javert glowered at him. There was no one in the police or otherwise with whom he would have a conversation like this, and he felt that surely Valjean must know it.  He would not give Valjean the satisfaction of an answer.

“How long did those boys at the barricade have you tied?”  Valjean tried another tack.  Last night, he had kissed gently at the raw marks on Javert’s wrists and throat.  Now he began to consider whether marks had been made on his spirit, as well.

“I wasn’t exactly checking my watch.  I suppose maybe fifteen, sixteen hours,” said Javert dismissively.

“You spent sixteen hours tied to a table?!”  Valjean was beginning to see why Javert was in his current state of mind.

“No.  The inconsiderate fellows tied me up to a pillar for most of the time.”

Valjean felt a hot flare of anger.   But it was anger at the dead, and he knew he had to let it go.

“You absolutely need rest,” said Valjean decisively.

“Perhaps you are right,” said Javert with resignation.  He didn’t really believe it would help, but at least it might numb things for a little longer.

“Truth be told, I could use a little more rest, too.  I’m getting a little old for that kind of exertion.”

Javert considered.  He was now Valjean’s creature three times over.  Valjean had given him his life and freedom at the barricade, he had prevented him from seeking his own death in the river, and then he had touched him in a way he had never allowed anyone else.  Had never hoped to allow anyone else.  It would matter little now if he allowed Valjean to rest with him.  

“Very well.”  He removed his waistcoat and jacket, and climbed back into the rather small bed. “What are you waiting on?” he asked when Valjean did not join him.  

Valjean looked faintly surprised, but joined Javert under the worn blanket.  He was hesitant, wondering how much contact would be allowed.  But there was very little room in the bed, and Javert was sure to correct him if he did anything he didn’t want.  

Valjean moved in and rested his forehead at the base of Javert’s shoulder blades.  Javert found that he liked him there - the close contact stopped just short of being too much, and Valjean could not see his face.  As he relaxed, Valjean ran a hand idly along his side, bringing it to rest against Javert’s chest.  He flexed his fingers open and shut, open and shut, stroking along his chest.  

As Javert mentally adjusted to the presence of Valjean’s hand, he wondered whether Valjean found this relaxing as well, or if his presence was another burden which Valjean chose to carry for reasons of his own, as he had carried that badly wounded boy the other night.  He could not deny that he too had become a burden on Valjean, and he was letting him carry his weight.  Very well, so be it.  After all, it was entirely Valjean’s fault that he was alive to be a burden on anyone.  He pushed back slightly into Valjean.  Valjean was surprised but pulled him in tightly.  Javert was embarrassed by the way he melted into Valjean’s touch.  The man felt disconcertingly right.  

They drifted back to sleep, neither of them aware of the time.  It was early evening before they awoke again.  Neither of them was sure whose movements had woken the other up, so intertwined had they become.  They sorted themselves out with some embarrassment.

“Let me take you out to go get some dinner,” Valjean said. “I imagine it would do us both good to get some food and fresh air.”  He realized as he spoke how extremely hungry he was.  

Javert’s earlier distress had pushed aside his hunger, but it returned to him faintly as Valjean spoke.  Could he really go out to dinner with a wanted criminal, as though they were bosom friends?  He doubted he really had much choice on the matter.  There was nothing to eat in his apartment, and Valjean was unlikely to be ready to let him out of his sight.

Javert, knowing the neighborhood, led the way to a small restaurant, gravitating towards the one that was the least crowded at this busy hour.  Valjean was relieved when they were seated towards the back of the establishment.  Both were desperately hungry.  Valjean ordered heartier fare than he typically allowed himself - roasted beef and bread.  Both men ate quietly, but the silence was more companionable than might have been expected.  They finished quickly, and were soon walking side by side to nowhere in particular.

Evenings such as this were Valjean’s habitual time to walk, and if now he was walking with Javert rather than with the aim of avoiding Javert, it did not lessen the feeling of rightness at being out and about. The city was already recovering from the violence it had sustained.  The summer night was still bright, and people were beginning to venture outside again.  

Valjean kept an eye on Javert.  He hardly expected that he would take off and make a dash for the river, or anything equally foolish, but it seemed as though it wouldn’t hurt to keep an eye on him.  But some of the wild tension had left Javert.  Valjean thought that some of even the customary tension of Javert on a good day had left the man.  He could not have imagined taking a stroll like this with the serious inspector of Montreuil-sur-Mer.  But then he certainly couldn’t have imagined sharing a bed with the Javert of that time.  Valjean realized that he was hoping that Javert would allow him to stay the night again.  It was very much in Valjean’s nature to enjoy curling up with a lover, but he had never before had the opportunity to realize this.  

Their steps eventually lead them back to Javert’s apartment building, as they came to a halt outside the door.  There was a moment in which neither man could meet the other’s eyes, then both looked at once and the intensity was alarming.  

“You may come inside, if you wish,” Javert said.  

Valjean was relieved.  He had meant it when he offered to stay with Javert until he was well, but he needed his cooperation in order to do so. 

They made their way upstairs to Javert’s apartment, and sat down, Valjean on the only chair and Javert on the bed.  They remained in silence for a while.  Neither was much inclined towards small talk, but they were unsure of how to breach the silence between them on the more serious topics on their minds.

“You don’t have to stay, you know,” said Javert.  “I’m not your responsibility.”

“I can’t help but feel guilty about last night.”

“There’s nothing to feel guilty about.”

Valjean felt strongly that this was not true.  He was afraid that he had forced himself on Javert; had missed the signs that Javert was not willing.  And he was still distressed by the thought that it had somehow been in response to him that Javert had intended suicide in the first place.

“Javert.  Will you help me understand what is going on with you?”  

“I hardly know myself.”

Valjean crossed his arms and waited, patiently but pointedly.  While not being particularly astute with emotions himself, he could tell that Javert was being evasive.  

“It’s true.  I’ve never felt like this before; everything is wrong, everything is adrift.  I’ve lived my life on simple principles.  I’ve always striven to be beyond reproach, and I’ve always done my duty as I understood it.”

Valjean nodded.  None of this was surprising.

“And my heart was in it, completely.  I trusted that I was doing the right thing.  Until last night:  that was the first time when I realized that what I wanted to do was at complete odds with what my duty was.  I was to turn you in, but I couldn’t.  I didn’t want to.  My heart won over my sense of duty.   You did that, Valjean.  Whether you meant to or not.  I made the decision about you almost without consulting myself. One moment I was at war with myself, and the next I had left you to be free. But there was no peace after I let you go.  Everything felt so much worse.  I could no longer reconcile myself with myself, or with the world I knew.  There seemed like there was only one way out.”

Valjean was staring at him in confusion.  

“Then you deny me that as well,” continued Javert.  “You frustrate me.  What reason could you possibly have for preserving my life so persistently?”

“I had no idea that you felt that way.  But I don’t regret saving a life, even if you don’t value it right now.  And the rest of it?” asked Valjean.

“What?”

“Why did you - you kissed me, Javert.  I wouldn’t have…”  Valjean trailed off.

“Well.  Perhaps it was a sudden impulse.  I already told you that I expected something much different.  I can tell you that I thought I deserved everything I expected.  Besides, it didn’t seem like you minded,” said Javert with a touch of resentment.

“I mind now!”

“...Which part do you mind?”

“The part where you were trying to use me to hurt yourself!”  What Javert was saying he thought of Valjean went against everything that Valjean strived to be.  In addition, Valjean too felt vulnerable about his sexuality.  He had pushed that part of himself down throughout his life, until - exhausted, raw, hurting - he had finally let his guard down the previous night.  Now he felt attacked, and like he could not in kindness say anything in response.  There seemed to be nothing he could say to Javert that would not push him further away.  

Some part of Javert was signaling for his attention, though.  In the midst of his inner turmoil, he now realized that he must be being unfair to Valjean, who was no doubt suffering too.  Who, for unfathomable reasons of his own, had decided to prioritize Javert’s wellbeing by staying with him.  

“I’m sorry,” Javert said.  What might have been a simple social nicety from someone else was a profound admission from Javert.

Valjean, surprised, nodded his head once.

“I remember you a little from back in Toulon, and yet I see nothing of that man when I look at you today,” said Javert.  “I’m baffled.  I don’t understand how you could have changed so much.

Valjean sat silent for a moment as he considered.  And there it was.  That was why it had been Javert: he was the only one who could sit there asking how he had changed so much.  It was that simple.  There was no one else alive who had known him for so long, known the aspects he had taken on throughout his life, and still apparently chose to kiss him.  

“You told me once that you knew that I had robbed a bishop shortly after my release from prison.  I wonder if you know the full story, though.”

Javert gestured for him to go on.  

“He had offered me food and shelter for the night, when no one else would.”  Valjean looked up at Javert bitterly.  “You know how hard it is to re-enter society after one leaves the  bagne.”

“That’s not my concern,” Javert said automatically.

“Perhaps not, but it was my concern at the time,” said Valjean coldly.  “Anyway, the bishop - although I didn’t know who he was at the time - took me in and offered me kindness, a meal, and a place to sleep in his own home.  I accepted the food and bed, but I’m afraid I was not able to fully accept his kindness.  I robbed him during the night.  I’ve taken a few too many desperate, hopeless chances in my life to be surprised when the gendarmes captured me.  I was resigned to my fate.  But nothing could prepare me for what happened next.  The bishop told the gendarmes that I had been telling the truth, that the silverware was a gift from him.  I was suddenly free.  He…he insisted on giving me his silver candlesticks as well, telling me that I was to start an honest life with them.  His was a blessing I did not deserve, but he saw something in me, I suppose.  It took me a while, but I wanted to be who he saw me as.”

“You then robbed a child, did you not?”

Valjean hung his head.  “I did.  Believe me, if there was any way that I could undo it, I would.  It was a last act of desperation.”

“Desperation?  You had money, I believe, in the form of the bishop’s silver and your payment from the  bagne.  Had you lost it already?”

“No, that’s not what I mean.  Desperation in the soul.  It was a wild impulse to lash out - a harmful impulse.”  Valjean glanced at Javert, wondering if he was thinking what Valjean was thinking.  

Javert’s look grew darker but he did not speak.  So Valjean filled in again.  “I wonder now - was that what you were experiencing when I found you on that quay?”  

Javert shot him a warning look.  Valjean chose to plunge on.  “I lashed out around me, but perhaps you kept it inside.  You are a man of principles, perhaps, and although you were desperate, you thought that you would harm no one but yourself.”

Javert’s silence was as good as an answer.  He had not thought about it that way, but he didn’t think that Valjean was necessarily wrong.  He wondered when Valjean had gotten to be so insightful - he would never have guessed.  

“When I was at my lowest, I had the memory of the bishop to guide me.  Chance had brought me to him, and he made the choice to forge a connection with me.  It’s a gift.  That kind of connection between two people, sudden, unexpected: it’s a gift from God.  What we had last night was the same as that.  After all the pain, death, and destruction, to find solace in one another…”

“Is that what it meant to you?”  Javert asked, surprised once again by the man in front of him.

“Yes.  I had thought - if I had thought at all - that you felt the same way.  If I had any idea -” Valjean trailed off, shaking his head.

“You really are remarkable, Jean Valjean,” Javert said with some reluctance.  “I didn’t want to see it, all those years ago.  Why, why can’t this be easier?”  

Valjean ran a hand through his hair absently.  “Javert, I don’t pretend to understand you, but.  There have been times in my life when I have had to make hard decisions.  It’s never easy.”

“And what?  You are implying that the right decision here is for me to allow you to go?”

“The right decision is for you to live, Javert.”

Javert dropped his eyes, surprised.  When he raised his eyes again, Valjean was still gazing at him.

“But,” Valjean paused for a moment, weighing his words.  The question felt too important to be let out in the air where it would be vulnerable to an answer.  “Have you made up your mind about whether or not you are going to turn me in?”

Javert glared at him.  “I thought that we had established that I will not.”

“Thank you,” said Valjean with a beaming grin.  “I won’t have to be afraid at the sight of you anymore.”

“You won’t be subject to the sight of me anymore,” returned Javert.

“That could be true.”

“We don’t have to ever see one another.”  Even as he spoke, repeating himself, a small but long-enduring part of Javert was willing Valjean to contradict him.  

“No, we don’t,” said Valjean.  Javert looked away.  “But I suspect that you could use a friend, Javert.  And I-I could use a friend as well.  One who I can trust not to turn me in.”

Javert turned back.  “I’m not sure that I’ve ever had a friend before.  Not a close one - not one who was more than a work mate.”

“It’s been a little while for me,” said Valjean, thinking back to his time with old Fauchelevant.  

“I’m not sure that I know how to be a friend.”

“We will figure it out.”  He looked at Javert, feeling suddenly shy.  “After all, I know that last night, we figured things out well enough together.”

Javert looked up, startled, and Valjean thought that his face looked a little flushed.

“If we saw each other more - would you want to do...more like that?” asked Javert.

“Only if you want it for its own sake.”

“I think I do,” Javert admitted.  

Valjean, feeling suddenly and unexpectedly elated, stood up from his chair and made his way over to Javert.  Javert stood as well, movements awkward.  For an uncomfortable moment, neither was sure what to do.  Then Javert took a deep breath and moved in closer, so close he had to look down to meet Valjean’s gaze.  Valjean placed his hands on Javert’s shoulders, pulling him close as he stood on tiptoes to kiss him.  It was as good as he had remembered:  Valjean’s lips pressing and brushing against his insistently.  And for a moment, Javert could see things as he did.  He could see hope, a future; even a chance that Valjean could be part of that future.  He pressed his body to Valjean’s as his lips parted to allow Valjean in.  And Valjean didn’t know how to do this, this was all new for both of them, but he was willing and he would learn.  Heart soaring, he deepened the kiss.