Title: Five Steps from Hope
Work ID: 1125191
Author: theoreticallychaotic
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Chronic Illness, Emotional Hurt/Comfort, Fluff, More Tags As and When
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/5



Denial



The sharp scent of hot coffee beans twirled upwards, stinging Javert’s nostrils and violently roiling his stomach. He had made progress, though, hauling himself from the bed that he had been hostage to for near three weeks with leaden limbs and his spine seemingly a touch-paper for one of Hell’s hottest fires. With all the pace of a chain-gang lugging at a creaky Tall-Ship, an old man wallowing in the salted, stormy brine, Javert had at last manage to reacquaint himself with his uniform; it grated far more than he remembered, shaving near brutally against his fevered skin. 

Yes, the coffee held all the appeal of a cold case rearing its nasty head once again; he didn’t want to touch it. But no matter; he’d succeeded in absconding his bed – the solitary, narrow bed at the back of the house that Jean had confined him to for proper rest and which only ever favoured the company of one person. He had assumed his guise of a Police Inspector, once the only skin he ever felt rightfully comfortable in, and was now determined to commit the petty act of forcing breakfast upon his strongly resisting body. 

The chunky ceramic mug, emblazoned with the words ‘Mornings Are For Other People’ – Jean’s idea of a joke – was half-way to his mouth, wrist throbbing sorely in protest at the effort, when a voice startled him. He jerked enough to splatter the table with several splodges of liquid. 

“Javert?!” Jean’s bewilderment at seeing his partner, grey-faced and wheezing, slouched over the kitchen table was betrayed in his voice. “What on earth are you doing? And in your uniform too?” 

“I’m going to work, Jean.” Javert, trying to firm his breathy, weakened voice, dabbed a square of kitchen towel over the spilt drink. 

“You’re in no fit state!” Jean dragged a chair from the table, the whine of the feet scraping the flagstones piercing to Javert’s ears. “Be sensible, Mon Coeur. You’ll only succeed in making yourself more ill than you are now.” 

Javert was only vaguely aware of Jean’s lengthy litany of why Javert wasn’t fit to be anywhere other than that wretched bed as a sharp pain sunk its fangs into the left side of his chest and proceeded to coil around him.

“I’m better than I was.” Javert stated, his voice snagging on a wince.

Jean sat back and watched, unconvinced, as Javert bowed his head, cupped his hands to the ladder of his ribs and hunched further over the table. “Pain?” Jean asked.

Javert gave a curt nod; “It’ll pass.” 

His head remained hung and his hands pressed tight, his knuckles paling with each constricting breath. He felt two patches of heat, one on either side of his chest; Jean’s hands gently resting there, gently soothing, gently comforting to the tune of the rhythmic tick of the clock and Javert’s stumbling intakes of breath.

“Try not to breathe too deep.”

He could feel Jean’s breath trembling his wiry hair and patting his hot neck whilst he remained bent double and immovable as a boulder, letting the snake have its fill before he sensed it steadily loosen and slither to its retreat. The pressure against his ribs eased and he relished the greater amount of air filling to nourish his lungs once again. 

“Better?”

“Yes…thank you.” Javert straightened his aching back, brows still threaded together with pain. Even so, that wasn’t a strong enough deterrent for Javert: “This won’t stop me going to work, Jean.”