Title: Four times Javert made a coffee for Valjean and one time he did not
Work ID: 31743523
Author: Knyaz_Nikolai
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Grief/Mourning, Loss, 5+1 Things, except it's 4+1, Illnesses, I don't want to spoil it but it IS angsty, Angst, Banter, no betas we die like Javert on the bridge, beware the 5th coffee, valvert - Freeform, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1


First coffee


 

It was early morning when Javert slowly took the steps leading downwards where he vaguely knew the kitchen was located. The whole house was quiet and only his tentative steps could be heard in the empty staircase. If what Valjean told him yesterday was right, Cosette would still be away visiting Marius and, as he left the slumbering ex-convict behind him, he was for now the sole awake inhabitant of this house. 

It was still somewhat strange to be there, in Valjean’s home, as a guest rather than as an officer of the law but then again it’s been months since their relationship evolved and changed beyond recognition. It was not something that happened fast or was painless, oh no. They had too much history, a history that held them back but also tied them together. 

Some days it all still felt like a dream, a jumble of events, a mix of sensations. How many times did Valjean save him? When did he start to think of Valjean as someone more than an ex-convict, an enemy, a reluctant ally, an accursed saviour? When did they both realise the truth of their feelings? Javert scoffed at such sentimental thoughts. Did it matter? What was important was the fact that they were here now, the most improbable pair of men. Javert shook his head as he reached the bottom of the stairs and turned left.

The morning sun’s rays were streaking through big windows that overlooked the well-kept garden and basked the kitchen in a soft, warm light. Javert stopped for a moment and found himself strangely entranced by the sight before him. There was warmth and a strange sense of calmness that seemed to permeate his spirit as he beheld the scene. The house, it seemed, had a similar effect on him as Valjean himself. 

Despite the fact that mornings were usually not his favourite times of day (if a man such as Javert could be said to even  like any time of the day) Javert felt strangely awake. Usually, he had to drink at least two strong coffees to feel that way and yet today was apparently his lucky day. He walked towards the kettle, filled it with water and put it on the stove. Then he took two mugs from the drying rack and placed them on the counter. Now, where would Valjean keep his coffee?

Looking at the kitchen cabinets he furrowed his brows. Well, it would be logical if tea and coffee were stored somewhere near the stove, in the cabinet above it — at least this is where he would place it. But was it there? He did not want to go through Valjean’s things, it was not a police search. Still, he wanted to prepare something to drink before the man would get here. 

“It’s in the cabinet on your right.”

Javert's head whipped around at the sound of a low voice coloured with amusement coming from the entrance to the kitchen. Apparently, he was not as awake as he thought, otherwise he would notice Valjean — still sleepy, his curly hair a rat’s nest on his head — who was standing there, smiling at him and looking at him softly, as if he knew exactly why Javert was standing so long before the cabinets, not doing anything. 

“Ah.”

For a moment Javert seemed to forget how to speak altogether. There was just something in his chest and in his throat the moment he saw Valjean looking so relaxed, so happy, so… Free. There was a warmth in his gaze, something unmistakable for anything else than love and Javert felt his throat constrict, finding himself unable to produce the words that he so desperately wanted to say. But no matter, Valjean knew about his feelings and how he still struggled with the casual displays of affection that came so easily to the white-haired man. 

It made sense if one thought about it. Valjean led a hard life, that much was true but there was also so much goodness in him. It took Javert some time to realise that the affection Valjean so easily displayed, whether as a mayor or a father to Cosette, was genuine. Javert, on the other hand, was always a hard man. Never one to smile or hug someone, he had no one in his life that would do it to him in return. Well, up until this moment...

Not thinking about it any further he turned towards the kitchen cabinet and opened it, taking out a can with black coffee inside. Meanwhile, Valjean entered the kitchen and moved to stand at Javert’s side, leaning against the counter.

“Are you quite sure it’s healthy?”

Valjean asked, trying to stop himself from laughing when Javert added another spoonful of coffee into his mug with deliberation (it was the fourth one). Instead of replying, Javert just looked at Valjean unamused and raised an eyebrow, hovering the spoon over Valjean’s cup. 

“Two, if you please.”

Soon enough there were two spoonfuls of coffee in Valjean’s mug, as per his request and Javert turned to fully face him. What was he meant to do? What did people do in situations like that? Judging by the uncertainty on Valjean’s face he also did not know. Javert heaved a sigh. For God’s sake, they were behaving like teenagers, he thought waspishly, pressing his lips tightly till they formed a straight line, his blue-grey eyes throwing daggers at the mugs as if they personally offended him.

“Come now, it’s too early to be so cross.”

Valjean’s hand that had up until now rested on the counter found itself on Javert’s cheek, smoothing the angry sideburns.

“It’s early. That’s a reason enough not to be so damn cheerful.”

He muttered under his breath, unable to comprehend how Valjean could be so happy and energetic so early in the morning. But as irritated as he was, he did not dare to shrug off Valjean’s hand. 

“I can think of several reasons to be happy.”

Valjean’s voice took on a more gentle note as he finally applied some pressure, drawing Javert’s head down for a kiss. Javert did not protest but rather relaxed — this was, by far, the only method of shutting him up that he actually enjoyed. Putting his hands on Valjean’s sides he pulled him closer and a murmur of appreciation came from his chest as he felt Valjean’s solid body against his own. Now, since they had some time...

The kettle whistled loudly and they broke off, startled — Valjean with an awkward laugh, Javert with a frustrated growl. Somehow he forgot that he had put the infernal thing on. Valjean just shook his head and sat down at the table, watching Javert make the coffee. Soon enough he had a steaming mug before him with another one put on the other side of the table.

Javert joined him, already trying to drink from his mug despite the fact that it was too hot — something he was used to since he was always rushing to get to work. Valjean, on the other hand, started slowly adding sugar, humming some tune under his breath.

“Are you quite sure it’s healthy?”

The contempt in Javert’s voice was unmistakable as he mimicked Valjean’s earlier words after seeing the fifth spoonful of sugar disappear into the mug. He gazed at it with his lip curled in distaste, shuddering to think of the ruined coffee residing inside. Valjean, not paying attention to it at all, stirred his coffee and smiled serenely.

“I’ll let you keep your four spoons of coffee if you let me keep my five spoons of sugar.”

Javert’s eyes narrowed and he looked like he was on the verge of saying something about how he doesn’t need Valjean’s permission to drink his goddamn coffee the way he liked it but ultimately he just rolled his eyes. 

“Agreed.”

And if saying this word was easier because Valjean’s hand found his on the table and squeezed it gently, well… There was no one to witness his small surrender. 

 


Second coffee


 

“The house seems so quiet now.”

Valjean murmured into his coffee that Javert had just put before him. Javert would have a problem hearing this if not for the fact that the kitchen was, in fact, silent. It wasn’t something unusual, the early mornings at Valjean’s house always seemed quiet, the only sounds were the ones coming from outside — the birds singing, the cars rushing somewhere in the background. On the outside, it was just another lazy weekend. But inside something was happening with Valjean.

Knowing the man long enough Javert knew it was not the silence that disturbed him, that he said  quiet  but meant something else.  Empty,  he wanted to say.  Empty without Cosette in it.  Javert tugged at his sideburns, thinking of something to say. It was not pleasant to see Valjean, usually annoyingly cheerful in the mornings, so pensive and melancholic. And yet, what was he supposed to do?

It took some time for Marius Pontmercy to recover after the riots. It took that booby of a lawyer even longer to gather the courage necessary to ask for Cosette’s hand. But now that it was done there was no stopping the chain of events that followed — the most painful to Valjean being Cosette moving out. 

Three days now Javert had to pay attention to where he was going lest he stumbles onto some box loaded with books, clothes and other such items. Well, not anymore. Yesterday he helped Valjean pack the last of Cosette’s things and the girl truly moved out. Javert could turn a blind eye when Valjean tried to conceal tears in his eyes. He could pretend he did not feel Valjean holding him more tightly during the night. But he could not stay silent now.

“It’s not like she suddenly stops being your daughter. Besides, you can visit her as often as you want or call every other day.”

He saw Valjean’s hands clenching on the steaming mug as he sighed heavily. The white-haired man opened his mouth as if to say something but then closed them, thinking better of it. 

“Of course you’re right. And, Javert, I hope you know I appreciate your presence greatly.”

He said finally, raising his head to meet Javert’s eyes. Moments like this always made Javert feel slightly awkward. What was he to say to something like that? Javert wasn’t a man of many words and the ones he could think of did not suffice — “likewise” sounded flat and cold in comparison to that heartfelt confession. Frustrated, he huffed, looking at Valjean with exasperation. 

“I know, Valjean.”

His words did not calm the man down so Javert deduced there was something else troubling him. Indeed, he looked nervous, glancing to the side and worrying his lip. Javert’s gaze sharpened at this sight. This wasn’t good. This was the type of behaviour that Javert had come to associate with lying and for this he would not stand. 

“What is it? Out with it.”

He said, maybe a little too sharply — he realised that as he saw Valjean jerk suddenly, spilling some coffee onto the table. His mouth twisted into something that was supposed to resemble an apologetic smile and yet the harsh lines of his face only made it a grimace.
Valjean stood up, approached one of the cabinets and took out a kitchen towel. 

“I was just thinking…”

Valjean began tentatively as he started wiping out the spilt coffee from the table’s surface. He seemed to be focused entirely on this action. Javert trained his gaze on Valjean’s hand — was that his imagination or was it shaking slightly? 

“With Cosette moving out and you being here so often I’ve been thinking… Why won’t you move here, Javert?”

Valjean’s hand suddenly stilled (although not completely), just as Javert stopped drinking his coffee. Move here? Permanently? He would be lying if he said it was something he had never considered. He was a guest at Valjean’s house more often than not, his things were lying neatly in the bedroom and bathroom, he had keys to this house, for God’s sake.

“I-”

“Of course you don’t have to if you don’t want to. I just thought it would be a logical step. There is no need for you to pay for the flat if there is a place for you there. Besides-”

“Valjean-”

“I wouldn’t mind the company, you know that. You’re almost living there anyway so-”

“Valjean, you’re rambling.”

That seemed to finally stop this stream of words that escaped Valjean’s lips. Javert looked down at his half-empty mug. The idea was not without merit. What was there that held him back? Why should he hesitate? Valjean would welcome company and, as he already said, he was almost living there anyway. 

“Fine.”

Nodding his assent, he resumed drinking his coffee, looking at Valjean curiously. For a moment, the man seemed to be frozen but then an honest smile appeared on his face. Smiling like that Valjean looked young again — there was light in his eyes and energy in his movements. He approached Javert and kissed him gently and even as he was doing this Javert could still feel a smile on his lips. 

“I take it it was the right answer.”

Valjean gave a small laugh at that, his thumb caressing Javert’s cheek. He nodded, looking down at the sitting man with such warmth that Javert thought he would surely burn from it. 

“The best one.”

But the smile on Valjean’s face faltered as all of a sudden he placed a shaking hand on Javert’s shoulder, clenching it hard. The inspector looked at him surprised. Valjean suddenly got pale, squeezing his eyes tightly as he focused on his breathing. Concern grew in Javert’s chest. He extended his hands, trying to support Valjean’s weight.

“Jean? What’s happening?”

“I’m sorry it’s just… Sudden dizziness.”

Smiling weakly he opened his eyes and straightened, taking his hand from Javert’s shoulder. He did not look much better but some colour was slowly returning to his face. He waved his hand.

“It’s… Sometimes it is like that. I tend to forget my age.”

Maybe he tried to dismiss the whole matter but Javert did not allow himself to be fooled. The abrupt nature of this attack, the effect it had on Valjean, it was not something to be ignored. He looked at Valjean seriously. 

“Go and see a doctor. You can not just ignore things like that.”

He could see that Valjean was not happy with his words but after a moment he finally nodded, taking his own cup and putting it in the sink. Javert’s eyes were trained on him, looking for any clues — did he truly feel better? Was this sudden dizziness over or was Valjean lying? He did not notice anything. 

“Javert?”

Grey-blue met green as they looked at each other — Javert furrowing his brows, Valjean smiling hesitantly. 

“Thank you for the coffee, it was perfect.”

With these words Valjean left the kitchen, the tremor that was still present in his hand barely concealed.

 


Third coffee


 

Looking outside of the window Javert was grateful that today he did not have to go to work. An unusual state for him but given the fact that it snowed all night and now the wind was so strong that the outside world looked like a big, white screen, even without the Sun... No one would blame him for not wanting to move anywhere. 

Instead, he clutched his steaming mug with coffee and looked intently at the object that had him vexed since he first laid his eyes on it. The letter from the hospital, carrying the results of Valjean’s tests. 

It took some time to convince Valjean to actually go to the hospital. He was reluctant, kept saying it was nothing but his old age. All the attempts at reasoning with him failed and yet it seemed that Javert’s nagging finally bore fruit — three weeks ago Valjean agreed to see a doctor. Valjean, never a man to complain about his own plight, did not say anything as he was redirected from one specialist to another. To be fair, it worried Javert but he also stayed silent. There was… An agreement they both had. 

As they entered their relationship Javert was aware that some things had to change. They were no longer a police inspector and a criminal or prison guard and a convict. They were two men who, despite everything, loved each other and with that love came several things. 

Javert wanted Valjean to be more vocal about things that bother him, he did not want to allow the man to suffer in silence, not anymore. And so he found out that Valjean prefers to keep the doors open since being locked in a room reminded him too much of being in a cell. He was also very particular about his morning hygiene, keeping himself clean (Javert suspected it was another thing that was influenced by his stay in prison). 

Valjean, on the other hand, had to learn that certain things had their place in the house and that Javert had little to no tolerance for a mess. Moreover, there was still some time at home that Javert dedicated to his work and it was better not to disturb him lest one ends up on the receiving end of his infamous scowl or, better still, his temper. 

But those were all things that were manageable, it took both of them some time to adjust but ultimately it proved to be much easier than expected. There was only one thing that was still problematic, a thing too much under the influence of their common past. The trust.

There was no hiding the fact that Valjean was a liar, an exceptionally good one at that — it was no accident that he was able to fool Javert back in Montreuil-sur-Mer. He lied to protect himself, to save others, he lied for many reasons and because it became second nature to him. Javert, however, was still entirely honest (perhaps too honest at times) and hated deception more than anything else. If there was something, a principle that he still held dear to his heart it was honesty. In this, he was not willing to indulge Valjean, to turn a blind eye. He expected Valjean not to lie to him, not even in the smallest of things. 

Of course, it was not as one-sided as one might think. Javert had to learn to trust Valjean, not to look at him with suspicion but allow him to stay silent about some things. And so now, looking at the results of the tests in his hands Javert knew this was a test for him. He couldn’t open them, he couldn’t see them no matter how much he wanted to. He had to wait for Valjean and if the man allowed him to look he would. But if not… Javert would have to rein in his instincts and let it be. 

“For a man who despises mornings you wake up early.”

With these words Valjean entered the kitchen, smiling like he always did (Javert still could not understand how he could have energy without even one cup of coffee in him). Green eyes found the coffee on the table and he sighed, content. 

“Habit.”

Javert sipped his coffee while at the same time extending his hand with an envelope in it. The moment Valjean noticed it some of the happiness seemed to go away. Still, he nodded and took the envelope, not opening it yet. Holding it in his hand he looked as if he was measuring its size, weight, checking its texture. He sat down slowly, his eyes rising to meet Javert’s. 

“You weren’t curious?”

Javert clicked his tongue, looking to the side, trying to sound as casual as possible.

“It’s addressed to you. Once you read it you will tell me, or not, it’s your decision.”

If he was looking at Valjean he would notice the smile that appeared on his face at that statement. He knew how hard it must have been for someone like Javert, an inspector to the boot, who despised not knowing. And yet he allowed this, for him.

“Well, then there is no reason to delay it.”

Opening the envelope in fast, sure movements he immediately started scanning the pages, looking for the most important bits of information. The first page, then second, third… Finally, his eyes found the relevant fragment. He carefully read it, trying to ignore Javert’s eyes boring into his skull. For the briefest of moments his hands stilled but then he raised his gaze and smiled.

“I told you there is nothing to worry about. Well, I’ll have to take some medications but it’s nothing serious.”

Javert did not say anything, observing him closely. Was he telling the truth? Would he show the results if he demanded to see them? Javert pressed his lips together. Trust, he reminded himself.  Trust . And so he nodded his head and did not speak about it anymore, choosing instead to finish drinking his coffee.

 


Fourth coffee


 

Four and five, Javert counted, stirring Valjean’s coffee after adding the fifth spoonful of sugar. Not for the first time he was tempted to add only four and then maybe three and slowly make Valjean drink a coffee that would be more palatable than this sweet monstrosity but he knew Valjean would notice and, heaven forbid, do the same to him and start making his own coffee unbearably weak. 

“Madness…”

He said silently to himself, flexing his hand as he tried to think of anything else but yesterday's disaster of a party. Well, the whole affair did not bode well for anyone. Javert, unused to the crowds, especially the ones composed of the rich people he didn't even know and Valjean, who was always so nervous around the crowds, too afraid of someone recognising him as an ex-prisoner, as the previous mayor of Montreuil — was it a surprise to anyone that such events did not make them happy? What was Cosette thinking? No, Javert knew this was not her plan, it was probably that idiot lawyer that suggested this party. 

Javert and Valjean had no choice but to accept — Valjean did so because he did not want to disappoint Cosette, Javert because he did not want to disappoint Valjean. Besides, there was something wrong with the white-haired man. Javert hated himself for suspecting him, but there was something Valjean was hiding, he was sure of it. He’s been much more withdrawn lately, coming to bed early, even going as far as to resign from his usual walks in the park. Whenever Javert asked him about his strange behaviour Valjean tried to make some excuse for himself — none were believable, in Javert’s opinion.

“Still thinking about pouring my coffee down a drain?”

Javert scoffed, opting instead for putting it on the table together with his own, clearly superior, coffee. He looked at Valjean — the horrible paleness that was present on his face yesterday disappeared completely but he still did not look as strong as he usually was. There were shadows underneath his eyes and yet Javert knew that he slept soundly during the night. He knew, because he couldn’t sleep a wink.

“Maybe I should but I fear it might damage the pipes.”

Valjean just laughed, by now used to Javert’s morning mood and their usual banter. Walking up to him he took a hold of his hand and kissed him gently with all the affection and love he possessed. 

“Then I’ll just have to drink it to save our pipes.”

He did not sit down, choosing instead to make some light breakfast. Javert sat down in his place, his eyes following Valjean’s movements. 

There was silence in the kitchen, save for the howling wind outside and for a moment they could pretend that everything was alright. That they did not have anything to talk about. But there was something in the air and something had to give, sooner or later. Javert, never the one to let fate decide, opted for sooner.

“Care to tell me what happened yesterday?”

There was no hiding the sharpness of his tone or the slowly brewing anger behind his voice. Valjean did not respond, focusing on slicing the cheese and taking out the plate.

“It was nothing. I told you already, I must have slept too little or the air pressure was too low.”

“Do you really expect me to believe that?”

He growled, his knuckles white from how strongly he held the table, Valjean turned to him and sighed, suddenly looking tired. He did not have the strength to do it, not now.

“Yes, I do. I told you already not to worry about it and-”

“How?”

Valjean blinked several times, not expecting Javert to interrupt him, especially with a question like that.

“Pardon?”

“How can you expect me not to worry? You almost fainted back there, your daughter was worried that you had a stroke! And don’t get me started on other things you think I didn’t notice.”

“Other…?”

“I’m an inspector, Jean, damn it, and you’re not as good as you think you are. I tolerated your lies long enough, the ridiculous story about cutting yourself during shaving when there was blood in the sink and yet no wound on your face. The excuses for not going for your walks, for your lack of energy.”

Valjean paled at these words and Javert thought with grim satisfaction that this was all the proof he needed. His nostrils flared, as if he was a hound on the trail, hunting for his victim, hunting for more lies.

“Javert, I can ex-”

“Why won’t you be honest with me for once in your life?!”

Valjean paled even more at that. He laid his trembling hands on the table to support himself but he was shaking now in earnest. He tried to say something, anything, but there was no going back once Javert worked himself up like that.

“Javert, please-”

“No. I have the right to know what is happening, so why won’t you just tell me?!”

Suddenly Valjean’s trembling hand knocked the mug with his coffee over, spilling it all over the table and burning his fingers. But it was not important as they looked at each other silently — Valjean pale, shaking and Javert angry, breathing heavily. Valjean hoped that this moment would not come. That perhaps it would be different. What a fool he was...

The spilt coffee started dripping down onto the floorboards and for some strange reason this was the thing that brought Javert back to the real world. He sighed heavily and stood up. At that, Valjean drew into himself even more, suddenly looking far older and more fragile than before. Javert felt as if his heart was pierced by a knife. He shook his head.

“Sit down. I’ll make you another one.”

 


Fifth coffee






It was early morning when Javert slowly took the steps leading downwards where he knew the kitchen was located. The whole house was quiet and only his heavy steps could be heard echoing in the empty staircase. He was now the sole inhabitant of this house. Almost mechanically, as if he was not in control of his own body, he turned left and stopped at the entrance to the kitchen.

The morning sun’s rays were streaking through big windows that overlooked the unkempt, overgrown garden and basked the kitchen in soft, warm light. Javert looked at the sight before him and thought that if he squinted then, just for a moment, he would be able to see Valjean in this light, his white hair glowing ethereally, his warm, green eyes more vibrant than the greenery outside. His throat constricted and he pulled back his greasy hair, taking a deep breath. It was time for some coffee. 

First, he took the kettle, slowly filling it with water, the sound of it familiar, comforting. He closed his eyes and put his forehead against the cold surface of the kitchen cabinet. Not thinking was hard but he was managing, he allowed his body to carry him through the motions, surrendered the control and allowed things to happen. It was easier that way. Opening his eyes he noticed that the water started overflowing. The sight, once a reason enough for his anger and curses, now only made him sigh. He dealt with it quickly and soon enough the kettle was put on the stove, the fire beneath it crackling as the water made contact with it and sizzled, soon to disappear.

Approaching the kitchen cabinet he opened it slowly and stood there, looking at all the things he could find inside. Some teas, herbs, and different types of coffee Valjean bought him so that he might “expand his horizons”. They lied there, unopened, and Javert reached for the familiar can. No matter what Javert remained a creature of habit and he still disliked change. 

One, two. The first cup done. One, two, three... He hesitated. Maybe Valjean was right? Maybe he should try drinking something weaker than his usual, strong coffee. It would be healthy, he guessed. Reasonable. He stood like that, frozen over his cup of coffee, the spoon hovering above it. Ultimately, he added the last spoonful. Not now, later. He will change it later.

He looked at the kitchen table. He should probably get rid of the wilted flowers that were standing in the vase. The petals, dry and an ugly shade of brown, laid on the surface, making a mess. Yes, those flowers must go. He will deal with them after breakfast. Or after dinner. Today. 

The whistle interrupted his musings, the water was ready. Soon enough the cups were full of it and the smell of freshly made coffee filled the kitchen. Javert took a deep breath and willed himself to release it. The coffee would do him good, certainly. Taking the now full cups he placed them on the table, one on one end, the second on the other. He reached for the sugar bowl and added five spoons of sugar to the second coffee. Then, he stirred it, making sure that it melted and sat down in his place. 

What… What was he to do now? What was there to do? He woke up early and got out of bed, which surely had to count for something. He was wearing clean clothes, he… Well, he still had to shower but never mind that, no one was going to see him either way. He gazed at his cellphone but did not pick it up. He knew what to expect — text messages from Chabouillet (he was not ready to face it), worried messages from Cosette on his voicemail (he was even less prepared to deal with that). 

He looked up, despite himself hoping to see him. An empty place. A steaming cup of coffee. And why did he make it? No one would drink it anyway, no one but Valjean drank a coffee like that! And he would not come here, he knew, he knew he would not hear his voice from the entrance, he would not see him sitting by this table, he knew, he knew, he-

The cup in his hands shattered, the hot coffee burning his fingers, the edges of the broken cup leaving small cuts. He screamed from the pain that was not physical in nature, he clenched his fingers even tighter, not minding the sting. Why? Why wouldn’t he tell him, why did he keep it a secret? And most of all, why did he leave him alone?

For the first time in his life, Javert put his face in his hands and he wept and wept and wept...