Title: If You Gave me a Chance I Would Take it
Work ID: 31867834
Author: yugiohgx
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Gavroche Thénardier, Jean Valjean & Jeanne Valjean
Additional Tags: Sad, a bit of fluff i guess
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

It was a sort of day where night could turn into day in an instant, and you wouldn't even know it or care. It was a summers kiss that you try to forget. It was the whisp of sleep that you get after staying up too late talking to someone you really cared about. It was a sort of day filled with laughter and fights and silence and fear. It was the sort of day that's not easy to forget.

A small man, tired but proud, stood in a field of daisies. He looked out on the french landscape and he felt solemn, something he hadn't felt in a while. It was a fleeting feeling, like sometimes he would get scared that if he left Cosette for too long she would stop missing her when he was gone.  It didn't really matter who pushed his wheelchair when he was old, he just wanted her to be happy. He thought about how he had lived a selfish life, how he hadn't taken care of the people he wanted to love, and hadn't always loved the people he took care of. 

That man had just lost a bet to his friend Gavroche about who could buttchug milk the quickest, cleanest and easiest way. The man, softly crying as he gave his last dollars from the Jean Valjean foundation of Not Giving A Shit, looked his cousin in the eye. The cousin, deeply focused on counting the money, happily dreaming of giving a small bit of it to some of his many kids, noticed the stare after a while. The man was Jean Valjean.

"I'm deeply sorry that it had to end like this. I wouldn't wish your fate upon my worst enemy. Or enema- I should say." The brown haired haired man cried even harder and took out his cellphone. Desperately clicking the keys, he called the only person he could trust. The 7th time he called, he finally got an answer.

"JESUS Christ dude, its 8.00 in the morning and I'm really trying to sleep here, man. What do you want?" The sullen voice finally answered. It was a voice belonging to none other than his best friend, confidante and (hopeful) marriage partner, Javert.

"I'm in a fieeeeeld, a field with daisieees," the man wept. "I'm in a field and I don't know how to get home. I'm cold and covered in milk."

"And thats my Problem, how? I don't see how that has got anything to do with me. Holy shit, this is sort of a new low for you. I don't think I've ever felt so bad for you."

"I'm crying softly, mon petite, and it's all your fault! You said we could hang tonight! You said you'd take me out to dinner! You left me here and there is nothing I can do about i-" The chipmunk suddenly got interrupted by a guffawing and gushing. Gavroche was celebrating. "Goddammit Gavroche just because I lost doesn't mean you have to go acting like a total not-gentleman about it, give me back my money before I call Social Services and tell them you're actually alive! I'll do it, I swear I'll do it!"

"Wait, Gavroche's actually with you right now? That means I don't have to pick you up, right?" A glimmer of hope burst through the yankin 'tude of the coy manly police officer.

"Nooooo, he's getting an Uber and he won't let me come in. He says I smell of bad decisions and Grape Juice. Please Come get me, Please!" But it was too late, the love of his dreams had already hung up the phone. He swiftly turned after the phone call and saw the small body of Gavroche as he got into an Uber and gave him one final look before he yelled out "Bye Bye SUCKER!" and the drove away.

It was just him now, him in a field of daisies. Nothing but Flowers. He started to feel all sad and shit, like the world was slowly disintegrating around him. Everything got smaller and smaller until the field was everything there ever was, or ever would be. He fell into a ball and started sobbing, loudly. Crying out for the only person who ever cared for him. He would never know the depths of which his affection blossomed. He would never know the fear that he felt. Knowing that he's going to die out here, naked and afraid. Somehow, his clothes had all fell off him as he had descended. Maybe it was because they were extremely cheap, maybe because they hadn't been washed in many moons, but he was very naked. He only had his dreams of Cosette to comfort him now. He didn't know how long he laid there in the grass, it must have been atleast 15-45 minutes TOPS, but suddenly something obstructed his vision of the sky. A man, no a policeman, looked down on him.

"What. The. Fuck. Happened. To. Your. Clothes?" Javert hissed. Ah! He was saved! The deep darkness of the late summer would not best him today. He cried, once more, so loud as to wake up the entire forest. Javert looked at him, then started walking away. Valjean chased him through the night as he felt happy for the first time in a long time. It took Javert 30 minutes to start his amazing police car of grand importance, simply because it was very old and very cheap. During that time, Valjean had hid in the back seat, ready to get to Javerts place. This was only the beginning.