Title: Kinktober 2021
Work ID: 34214461
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Jean Valjean/Original Male Character(s)
Additional Tags: Kinktober, Rimming, Boot Worship, Pony Play, Cock Warming, Glory Hole, BDSM, 24/7 D/s Relationship, Bondage, Somnophilia, Breeding, Mating Cycles/In Heat, Humiliation, Auctions, Temperature Play, Wax Play, Leather, Impact Play, Sounding, Free Use, Tentacle Dick, Semi-Public Sex, Sweat, Branding, Role Reversal, Intercrural Sex, Nipple Clamps, Masturbation, Shaving, Mpreg, Nipple Play, Lactation, Fisting, Grooming, Human Furniture, Tears, Face Slapping, Hate Sex
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 30/30

The bathwater had been so hot that the window was still steamed up. Javert’s skin was hot, too—Valjean wouldn’t have been surprised to see steam rising from his skin, although Valjean had taken care to dry him before Javert had pulled him down onto the bed.

Now, Javert was sprawled in abandon in a rare pose of relaxation. Valjean savored the chance to slowly kiss his way down Javert’s body, breathing in the familiar scent of Javert’s skin mixed with the perfume of his favorite Marseilles soap.

Javert was indulgent of Valjean’s whims today. When Valjean kissed his way past Javert’s swollen cock, Javert made a sleepy sound but let him do as he pleased. Valjean used the rare opportunity to lick and kiss his way down the firm thigh and then back upwards until he felt the weight of Javert’s balls brush his cheek.

He licked at Javert’s skin, breathing in the scent of salt and heat, closing his eyes as he lingered.

Then Javert shifted beneath him. Hot, damp skin slid against his cheek as Valjean nuzzled against the firm curve of Javert’s backside, his tongue tracing a path downward behind Javert’s balls. A sleepy moan of approval spurred Valjean on, and when his tongue found the tightly furled muscle of Javert’s opening with his tongue, he lingered there as well, circling it slowly until Javert moaned again.

Valjean had half expected to be pushed aside—but Javert did not seem to mind the attention, and Valjean felt breathless, aglow at the sounds of pleasure and the taste and scent of Javert all around him.

Tenderly, his tongue swirled around Javert’s hole, the muscle contracting and then relaxing again. Valjean licked into him, as much as he could, the heady scent of Javert’s arousal mingling with his musk and the sandalwood of his soap until Valjean was dizzy with it, every lick of his tongue making Javert sigh again.

The angle was making it difficult, and when Valjean used his hand to hold Javert open, he thought that now at last Javert would gently but firmly guide him away—but the protest he had expected never came.

Lost and breathless with pleasure, Valjean dared what he had thought Javert would never allow: a finger, wet with saliva, helping to spread the relaxed muscle so that Valjean’s tongue could slide deeper inside. Hungrily, he licked and touched and tasted Javert within as he had tasted every inch of his skin without, Javert moaning again—even when Valjean’s tongue retreated, his finger sliding inside instead as Valjean kissed and sucked the spread muscle.

Valjean’s heart was beating in his chest. He was aware that he had crossed a boundary Javert had never put into words, aware of just how little injury Javert’s brittle pride could take—but he was also aware of the sounds of bliss and the glorious picture of Javert spread out beneath him, loose-limbed with pleasure and their long, hot bath.

The sight was an unmatched treat. Javert was seldom at ease, rarely prepared to simply abandon himself to sensation as in this moment. It was all the more precious because Valjean knew just how much trust in him this took.

Awe washed through him at the sensation of heat tightening around his finger. Valjean slid a little deeper, his tongue licking at the ring of muscle surrounding him. He withdrew once, his tongue licking back inside in a silent question, and Javert moaned again—no reproach in it, only pleasure.

Helpless adoration made Valjean’s chest so tight that he could barely breathe as he slid his finger inside once more, lovingly licking around the rim of Javert’s hole while Javert’s thigh tensed and shivered against his shoulder.

At last, long minutes later, Javert touched Valjean’s cheek. His fingertips lingered for a moment in a light caress before he gently but firmly guided Valjean away and to where he wanted him instead.

And that was good, too, Valjean thought tenderly, breathing in Javert’s moan of contentment as he parted his lips for Javert’s cock. Valjean’s own arousal had gone untouched since their bath—but there was no need for that yet, not with his body thrumming with the sweet, aching awareness of the pleasure he was giving Javert.

The chandelier glittered above, a magnificent creation lit by gas that dazzled the eyes of the audience that had taken its seats in the boxes and balcony above the pit.

The coffee-houses of the opera had emptied, the steady murmur of the crowd had hushed, the dancers had entered the stage, and Jean Valjean found his eyes lingering on Javert in the light of the chandelier.

Javert had always been handsome, but in moments like these, dressed in his very best and all his attention taken up by the stage, Valjean could not imagine any sight more beautiful than the line of Javert's jaw, the curve of his cheek, the carefully groomed beard and the small glimpse of throat bared by the silken cravat. Javert’s eyes gleamed, reflecting the chandelier—eyes capable of such fierceness and such tenderness that Valjean half feared what might happen were Javert to turn his head now and fix him with his gaze.

Then Javert’s lips twitched. Without looking at Valjean, Javert gestured towards the stage with his chin, and Valjean knew himself caught.

He watched, obediently, as dancers swirled in graceful pirouettes, the music swelling around them. Then, long moments later, Javert shifted, and his handkerchief dropped to the floor of their box as if by accident.

Valjean bent down before he could think. Once in that position, he froze, his heart suddenly skipping a beat. He swallowed, hesitating for a fracture of a heartbeat, the music rising and then falling—and Valjean felt himself fall as well.

Quietly, his knees hit the floor of their box. When he looked up, Javert's eyes were still on the stage, but Valjean could see the shadow of a smile play on his lips. Valjean’s heart was still racing, even though the auditorium had darkened and the wall of their box was high enough to hide him from view.

For a moment, Valjean contemplated whether he dared to reach out and rest his hand on Javert’s knee, encouraging his thighs to spread. Then Javert’s leg shifted—but not to accommodate him.

Instead, Javert’s boot stepped right onto the handkerchief Valjean had reached out for, pinning it to the floor.

Valjean looked up, uncertain. Javert’s eyes were still on the stage, revealing no sign of whether Valjean’s boldness had irritated him.

Hesitantly, gauging Javert’s reaction, Valjean leaned forward and pressed a kiss to Javert’s knee.

There was no reaction. Javert’s legs did not part, and Valjean could not say whether he was relieved or disappointed.

Chagrined, Valjean lowered his head, his lips touching the leather of Javert’s boots this time—offering his apology. The leather had been polished to perfection by Valjean’s own hand, spotless and shiny.

Valjean kissed a line of atonement downward, warming the leather with his breath. This time, there was a reaction—a soft, indrawn breath during a pause in the music. Emboldened, Valjean swiped over the leather with his tongue, licking at the small creases where the leather would bend at the ankles.

This time, as the music swelled anew, there was no sound that betrayed a response. Instead, Javert’s boot shifted—freeing the handkerchief, then sliding forward purposefully to settle between Valjean’s thighs. Valjean froze again, his head rising to look up at Javert, half panicked, half aroused when Javert’s boot pressed forward against his cock.

At last, Javert’s eyes met his own, gleaming in the twilight beneath the dimmed chandelier with sharp amusement. Javert’s boot lingered for a long moment, pinning Valjean in place between the wall of the box and the leather of Javert’s boot.

Valjean shuddered, aroused and afraid, painfully aware of the hundreds of people surrounding them in the darkness of the theater--his cock aching helplessly regardless.

Then Javert gave another sharp nod towards Valjean’s chair, and his boot retreated.

 Valjean rose. Face burning, he sat down once more, his fingers tight around the handkerchief. Javert’s eyes were already on the stage again, his profile calm and undisturbed as Valjean’s cock throbbed rebelliously.

Valjean stared blindly at the stage, his heart beating fast. His mouth still remembered the warm smoothness of the leather, his tongue the taste of it, and he half regretted not having disobeyed Javert’s command, consequences be damned.

It did not matter, Valjean thought, trying to focus on the stage as the music rose to a crescendo. He would pay for it on the way home. Javert could be depended on for that.

The thought did nothing to dissuade his cock from aching all the way through the first act.

Valjean shuddered convulsively. Sweat dripped from his body, his back arched as he trembled, legs spread wide. He would have begged, if he had been able to speak. The metal bit in his mouth allowed only a tormented, muffled moan to escape as he kept shivering, cruelly kept on the edge of orgasm for what felt like an eternity, although Javert’s release was already dripping down his thighs, Valjean’s hole sore and empty.

Instinct made Valjean’s hips push forward, although his aching cock met only empty air. He shivered again, moaning when the hold on his reins tightened, his back forced to arch even further.

“Good boy,” Javert said, his voice still a little breathless, throaty with satisfaction.

The crop traced over Valjean’s backside again, and he whimpered pitifully once more. His buttocks still stung. Javert had put him through his paces today, and not without reason. The impulse to push back against Javert’s iron will was at times impossible to resist, the seductive call of Javert’s fierce retribution too tempting, and today Valjean had once again been reassured that no matter the strength of his own body, it was nothing against the strength of Javert’s will.

“That was not so hard, was it?” Javert’s fingers traced one of the smarting welts that criss-crossed Valjean’s backside. “You could have had it much easier. But you need to learn that lesson again and again, don’t you?”

Valjean moaned, the reins pulling his head back so far that tears kept leaking from his eyes as he struggled to keep himself balanced on his knees. His cock gave another helpless throb at Javert’s touch.

Javert kept the reins short as his hand ran down Valjean’s slick stomach. Valjean shuddered uncontrollably, his balls tightening in anticipation of the coming touch.

Javert leaned forward, his lips brushing Valjean’s ear. “You have to be strict with a stallion. Let them know who’s in charge. Once they know that, even the wildest stallion is as meek as a lamb.”

Valjean tried to make a sound of agreement, tears still running down his cheeks as his cock throbbed relentlessly for the touch that was so tantalizingly close.

“And once I’ve reminded you of who’s in charge, you know how to be good.” Javert brushed a kiss against his tear-wet face.

Valjean shuddered in exquisite torment when Javert’s hand closed around his cock at the same time. His hips came forward on instinct, fucking the hole Javert’s fingers formed, the reins still taut, keeping his entire body in a tense arch as he desperately chased his own release.

“Go on,” Javert murmured. “Good boy. You deserve it.”

He’d been made to wait for so long that for a moment, it seemed impossible to unloosen the tension, Valjean nearly sobbing with despair as he struggled, aching muscles burning.

Javert’s fingers merely kept their place. They did not tighten or stroke. They were simply there, waiting, half curled into an opening, for him to find his own pleasure thrusting into them. Then pleasure struck and Valjean heard himself groan, the low, helpless cry of an animal as his body suddenly felt weightless, his balls contracting again and again as the terrible pressure released and pleasure washed through him.

His muscles must have finally given out, Valjean realized long minutes later when he found himself half on the floor, resting in Javert’s arms. He was still wearing the bridle, the bit still in his mouth, but the harsh grip on the reins had eased. Instead, Javert held his heaving body and let him catch his breath, Javert’s thumb slowly tracing his parted lips.

Valjean looked up at him, breathless and too weak to move, but still trying to open his mouth even wider.

Javert nudged the wet bit. Another muffled sound escaped Valjean as he tried to chase Javert’s fingers with his tongue.

In return, Javert laughed softly and stroked his cheek, leaving the bridle in place as he waited for Valjean’s panting breath to slow. Only several minutes later, when Valjean was no longer trembling and able to raise himself to his knees once more, did Javert reach out to finally unbuckle the leather.

The corners of Valjean’s mouth were aching, saliva dripping from his lips, but Valjean held still and let Javert work at his own pace. 

First, Javert wiped down the leather, then the bit. Then he grabbed hold of Valjean’s chin and lifted his face to wipe the wetness from it.

Valjean parted his lips obediently when Javert slipped two fingers into his mouth, allowing Javert to feel around his gums and teeth for injury. Then Javert pulled back out and reached out for the small tin of anise dragées, slipping one into Valjean’s mouth.

“Such a good boy,” Javert said in a low voice, his hand curving around Valjean’s nape to rest there, heavy and reassuring, as Valjean slowly sucked on his treat.

It was a good feeling, Valjean thought, his backside still aching, his hole hot and raw, every muscle in his body as exhausted from an hour of play as it would have been from a day of hard work.

When Javert used the crop for correction, he did not hold back. He wanted to raise welts, and he had—and Valjean liked that he could always depend on that straightforwardness.

Under Javert’s indulgent gaze, Valjean traced one of the red lines on his buttocks with a fingertip, skin burning hot against his fingers.

He’d feel those welts for a few days while he worked in the fire horses’ stables. He’d think of Javert inside him. He’d think of Javert’s hands on him, positioning him however he liked, turning him inside out. And he’d think of the sweetness of the sugar melting in his mouth, and the sweetness of resting in Javert’s arms, sweaty and trembling.

“You need a bath,” Javert said. “I can’t put you away like that.” His gaze dropped knowingly to where Valjean’s fingertips were still following one of the welts. “It’s going to sting. But I don’t think you’ll mind that.”

Tranquilly, Valjean shook his head, slowly sucking on the anise dragée in his mouth. It would be good, all of it: the heat, Javert’s touch, the smarting welts, the sugar in his mouth.

He really had been very good today.

Autumn had begun to turn into winter, the days cold and the nights even colder. These days, Valjean always had a fire going when Javert arrived home, and Javert did not linger in the Prefecture. It was more comfortable by far to finish his letters and the incident reports of his men in the comfort of his own study with a fire in the stove, a glass of wine on his desk and his silken dressing gown wrapped around him.

Javert reached out for another report, this one written in the familiar hand of Rivette, then set to work once more.

Fifteen minutes later, several passages had been struck through, notes in his own hand detailing how he wanted Rivette to fix the appalling lack of progress he’d made so far.

Javert dropped the pages to the desk with a satisfied sound, reaching out for the wine and taking a sip while his other hand dropped to settle in Valjean’s hair, gently stroking him.

Valjean’s mouth was hot and comfortable, his tongue a soft pillow for Javert’s cock. His jaw had to be aching by now, but he hadn’t made a sound of protest since he’d swallowed down Javert’s release and then remained obediently on his knees as Javert softened in his mouth. 

He’d stay in that position for as long as Javert wanted. It was a pleasing thought and took away a little of the sting of the unsatisfactory reports littering his desk.

Javert stroked along Valjean’s swollen lips with the pad of his thumb, feeling Valjean’s tongue shift ever so slightly, Valjean trying to swallow his own saliva without disturbing Javert’s cock in his mouth.

Javert twined his fingers into Valjean’s hair, rewarding him with a caress, then leaned back in his chair once more and pulled the next letter forward. Valjean remained so still beneath his desk that all Javert could feel of Valjean’s presence was the pleasing warmth sheltering his cock.

It was pleasant to be home, finishing the day’s work with all the comforts he’d earned—the warm stove, his favorite chair, a bottle of good wine and Valjean’s silent, unobtrusive presence.

There was no sound, no movement as Javert worked, just the wet heat of Valjean’s mouth surrounding his cock, so quiet and patient and well-behaved.

Javert read through another report, this time noting down a strange coincidence that reminded him of a string of thefts that had occurred a month ago. He worked without looking at the clock, the only sound the rustling of paper and the scratching of the tip of his pen.

When he had finished his amendments, he rewarded himself with another sip of wine and a touch to Valjean’s cheek. It was a pleasing sight—Valjean’s mouth stretched wide, his eyes fluttering open almost surprised, his eyes calm and dark as if the long, enforced period of quietness on his knees had been as soothing as a morning spent in prayer.

Javert stroked his hair, then reached out for the last letter. Perhaps, when he was done, he’d let Valjean sip the last of the wine from his glass and then take him to bed. The night promised to be cold; he’d tell Valjean to add more wood to the fire and then spend the night perfectly comfortable, warmed by Valjean’s naked body.

But before Javert could retire, there was that one final letter he had put off and the sweet heat of Valjean’s mouth, his tongue a pillow as soft as a cloud, his mouth never failing to cradle Javert with reverence, no matter how much Valjean’s jaws had to be tiring now.

Javert rested his left hand on Valjean’s head. His fingers twined gently into Valjean’s hair, petting him absentmindedly as Javert dipped his pen into the ink and began to outline his response to the prefect’s budget for the coming year.

The place Valjean had been taken to did not appear at all like the sort of place Javert usually frequented.

They had often shared at meal together at Vannier’s, and for all of Javert’s feigned strictness, at least once a week he would find an excuse to reward Valjean with a visit to a café or to one of the places serving Italian ice creams.

Javert had always been as careful in his choices of respectable establishments as he was in everything else. Yet the place Valjean found himself in now was far from respectable.

For a moment Valjean wondered if he had misunderstood. Perhaps Javert had taken him here because Valjean was to serve as an accessory to his disguise as Javert looked for some wanted villain in the crowd that filled the dingy tap room.

They shared a bottle of wine—wine that certainly did not meet Javert’s standards, although Javert seemed too distracted to focus on it.

Valjean did not ask why Javert had brought him here, in case someone was listening to them. Still, it seemed that his assumption had been correct, as Javert’s eyes swept the room every now and then, always lingering on a door at the back.

At last, before Valjean had even finished his wine, Javert rose abruptly.

“Come on,” he said and nodded towards the back of the room.

They walked through the door Javert had eyed for the past several minutes. Valjean felt the hair at the back of his neck rise. Were they in danger? He doubted that Javert would bring him somewhere dangerous without warning him first. Still, if Javert was looking for someone—

Javert’s hand on his hip distracted him from his thoughts. Behind the door, there was a corridor, stairs leading up and down. Without speaking, Javert nudged him towards the stone steps that led downward, and Valjean followed obediently.

Once they had descended, another corridor beckoned. It was lit by a lamp. In the dim light Valjean could see several doors, leading to rooms which had to hold the proprietor’s stores of wine and beer.

To the right, a dusty curtain half covered an alcove. Javert steered him straight towards it.

The alcove was empty. There was no light here, and when Javert drew the curtain behind them, they were left in a murky twilight lit only by what little illumination the lamp in the corridor outside could provide.

Javert stepped close, embracing him from behind. Valjean could feel Javert’s mouth begin to smile as Javert nuzzled at his neck. Valjean breathed a sigh of relief, suddenly a little more certain of why he’d been brought here.

When Javert’s arm curved around him and unfastened his trouser flap, Valjean knew that he’d been right.

His heart was beating in his chest. Instinctively, he listened for sounds in the corridor outside, but didn’t voice any protest. If Javert had brought him here to ravish him in this dusty, public place, who was he to protest? And the truth was, his heart was already beating faster, his mouth dry with want at the promise of what was to come. Even here, in this dreary place, he wanted Javert and everything he’d demand of him.

Javert exhaled a low breath of amusement against Valjean’s ear when he reached for his cock and found him already hardening. Javert stroked him a few times while Valjean tried to focus on his breathing, still listening for sounds in the corridor.

Valjean’s eyes had slowly become accustomed to the gloom. He now saw that there was a small amount of light spilling into the alcove through an opening in the wall before him. Was someone sleeping in the room next door?

Javert lovingly squeezed his cock, then released Valjean, a hand at his back nudging him forward. One step, and Valjean found himself flush against the wall. He turned his head around in alarm to Javert, but Javert paid no attention to him. Instead, his hand gave him another push of encouragement.

“Stick it into that hole,” Javert whispered.

Valjean froze, confused and alarmed, his body still thrumming with arousal.

Javert gave him no time to think. Again he nudged him forward, and Valjean found himself taking a half-step, his cock brushing against the wall as his hands came up automatically to steady himself.

“Go on,” Javert said softly. “Do as you’re told. And be quiet.”

Valjean shivered, still desperately trying to listen for a sound from the other room.

Javert’s hand settled on his hip, rubbing soothingly. Despite his nerves, Valjean found himself shifting, painfully aware of how his cock was sticking forward luridly, pointing straight towards the small, round hole from which light still fell in.

Valjean’s fingers curled against the wall. He instinctively held his breath as he slowly aligned his hips with the hole, his heartbeat thundering in his ears as his cock slid through it.

What did it look like from the other side? If there was a person in that room and they were still awake and happened to glance at the wall in this moment, what would they think?

Shame curled in Valjean’s stomach, but even so his cock remained achingly hard as Javert hummed a sound of approval, his hand still stroking Valjean’s hip.

Then there was a touch, so alien and shocking that it blazed through Valjean’s body like the impact of lightning.

Something wet and hot closed around his cock. At the same time, Javert’s hand came up to clamp around his mouth, successfully stifling the cry of shock that had wanted to escape. Javert leaned forward against him with all his weight, keeping him from instinctively pulling back out of the hole.

Valjean panted desperately, shuddering as something soft and wet wrapped around his cock. For a moment, there’d been the terrible thought of some monster enveloping him, a creature of the deep seas devouring him.

A moment later, rational thought returned. Javert’s hand was still clamped over his mouth. Now three of Javert’s fingers slid through Valjean’s parted lips, filling his mouth with the taste of Javert and the familiar weight on his tongue, and Valjean realized that the sensation he was feeling was that of a tongue caressing him and a mouth surrounding him.

“That’s it,” Javert murmured into his ear. 

He kept his fingers in Valjean’s mouth, but slowly took his weight from Valjean’s back. Instead, he rested his other hand on his backside, squeezing, while somewhere on the other side of the wall, the mouth surrounding Valjean grew more demanding so that he felt himself slide in and out of it. The pleasure of it was so maddening that Valjean heard himself helplessly moaning around Javert’s fingers, despite the thin curtain that divided them from the corridor.

“You like that?” Another soft chuckle into his ear. “I thought you would.”

Valjean felt himself trembling convulsively, his entire body shuddering against the wall.

A part of Valjean still felt mortified at the thought of how this had to look in the other room, nothing but his hard cock poking through the hole—but another part loved the sensation of Javert pressed against him, Javert’s fingers pushing down on his tongue, Javert’s breath hot and fast against his ear.

Valjean sucked on Javert’s fingers, hips pressing forward against the hard wood until he thought he would bruise as something—someone—on the other side of the wall sucked him noisily. Then Valjean felt himself coming, something inside him twisting with sharp shame at the thought of his release splashing into a stranger’s mouth just like that, even as his body pushed forward against the wall again and again as he shivered.

When he was done, the mouth released him, air suddenly cold against his wet cock. Javert pulled his fingers free from his mouth. Still reeling, Valjean stumbled backward—his eyes instinctively rising to Javert’s face rather than to the hole from which light came spilling once more.

Even in the gloom, Valjean could see that Javert was smiling, his eyes warm and pleased with himself. He tucked Valjean back into his trousers and buttoned him up, then opened the curtain to the corridor.

Valjean looked back at the wall, then back at Javert, swallowing convulsively, not quite certain where to go from here.

“Come on,” Javert said and nudged him towards the stairs without bothering to explain what had just happened. “The wine is dreadful in this place. I think I still have a bottle of a good Volnay at home.”

The rope had been waiting on the bed, innocently coiled as if it was an accoutrement any gentleman would have waiting in his bedchamber, displayed with no more thought than wash basin, candle and shaving razor.

In the bedchamber of Javert, needless to say, such a sight was far from innocent.

Valjean had swallowed when he had first seen it, but doggedly refrained from asking Javert about his plans for it as they shared the dinner their portress had supplied. Javert might not have chosen to answer, of course, but the simple truth was that Valjean enjoyed the anticipation.

Whatever it was Javert had waiting in store for him, Valjean did not doubt that it would be pleasurable, no matter how long and torturous the way there.

After they had finished, Valjean returned the dishes to their portress, once again glad that Javert had possessed the foresight to rent an apartment situated on the first floor above the stables, which afforded them a privacy they might not have otherwise enjoyed.

On his return, he found Javert in his study, inkwell and paper spread before him.

“I left something in the bedroom,” Javert said without looking up. “Fetch it for me.”

Valjean didn’t ask what he was supposed to be looking for, and Javert did not elaborate. They knew, both of them, that there was only one thing this could mean.

It was a simple, sturdy hemp rope, loosely coiled. A shiver ran through Valjean as he touched it, but he carried it back to Javert without hesitation.

When he placed it on Javert’s desk, Javert looked up at last and gave him an approving nod.

“I have a few letters to write,” he said. “I want to work without interruption today.”

Valjean swallowed, but didn’t dare to protest that he would never do such a thing.

Javert’s eyes lingered on him, then he smiled.

“Strip,” he said.

The command was simple—as was the thing that would follow. The knowledge of what was to come had been laid out before Valjean like a straight path stretching before him, ever since he had first entered the bedroom and seen the rope.

Now, finally, the wait was over.

Valjean listened to the sound of Javert’s pen scratching across the paper as he took off his clothes, folding them carefully and placing them on a chair. Naked, he returned to stand before Javert’s desk, uncertainty and anticipation mingling until he could barely stand still.

Javert made him wait for a few minutes before he at last looked up again. Finding that his orders had been followed to his satisfaction, he rose and took hold of the rope.

Valjean held his breath, his throat dry as he imagined what scenario might follow.

Would Javert have him kneel by his desk? Beneath his desk? Would he tie Valjean across it, use Valjean’s back or chest to write his letters? Would he use the pen to torment and tease, inscribing what he intended to do to Valjean onto his skin, or drawing swirls of blue right onto Valjean’s cock while smacking Valjean for every shiver that ruined a line?

Javert exhaled with obvious amusement, and to his mortification Valjean found that he had begun to harden before Javert had even touched him.

“See,” Javert said. “I knew you would try to keep me from my work today. Fortunately I know how to deal with you.”

“You do,” Valjean acknowledged, watching the rope in Javert’s hand from the corner of his eye.

Again Javert laughed, but mercifully chose not to comment on it.

“Here.” Javert walked into the middle of the room and pointing at the floor. “Kneel.”

Valjean obeyed, keeping his eyes on the rope until Javert stepped behind him.

For a moment, Javert’s hand came to rest on his shoulder. Valjean took a deep breath and tried to relax.

“Hands,” Javert then said.

Valjean crossed them behind his back, wishing he could watch Javert as he felt the rope winding around his wrists. Instinct made him test the rope as soon as Javert finished, which Javert rewarded with another low sound of amusement.

There was no give in the rope, as was to be expected of Javert. It had been tied masterfully, so tight that it was impossible to wriggle free, but not tight enough to cut into Valjean’s skin, as long as he did not struggle.

Next, the rope was wound around his chest. Valjean watched, almost taken by surprise by the way anticipation made his body tremble. Hadn’t he been tied and chained enough in his life? And yet, here, in the hallowed halls of Javert’s study, every rasp of the rope against his bare skin made him shudder, every firm touch by Javert, arranging Valjean’s willing body however it pleased him, causing heat to spring up inside him.

By the end of it, with the rope crisscrossing his chest and hips, tying his arms behind his back and immobilizing his legs and ankles, he could barely move. There was rope running between his thighs as well, and every shiver made the coarse hemp rub against him. He had fully hardened at this point, the crown of his cock already gleaming with wetness, so that Javert laughed again.

“I knew I’d get no work done otherwise. You’ll have to wait today.”

Javert looked him over, appearing well-satisfied with the state of things. Then he returned to his desk, and Valjean was left alone with himself and the tingling anticipation beneath his skin that sought a way to escape and yet had no outlet, not with the way he was bound.

Javert had lit not only the lamp on his desk, but also another lamp that stood upon a cabinet. The warm light of the lamp spilled across Valjean, illuminating the space where he was kneeling. For a while, he stared at the circle of golden light that was turning the dark wood of the floor a burnished brown. He waited for serenity to come, for the shiver of anticipation to leave him—but for once, peace did not come, his skin fever-hot and his cock aching.

When he raised his eyes to Javert, he found him still at work, focused on the letters before him. His pen was gliding across the paper in the fast, determined rhythm that had become so familiar to Valjean.

Valjean waited for a long time, breathing shallowly. Time’s passing was marked by the pages of letters Javert set aside. The aching throb between his legs never ceased, and neither did the breathless sensation of trying to shift just the smallest fraction and finding himself tightly bound, still at Javert’s mercy.

Once, after several letters had been finished, Javert looked up and gazed at him. There was no mercy for Valjean’s plight in his eyes. Instead, Javert looked at Valjean with the same calm satisfaction with which he eyed the fine vase Fantine had given him, the elegant ink well, or the bookcase made from quality wood by a master carpenter.

Valjean shivered beneath Javert’s gaze, a droplet of sticky fluid running down his cock, dripping to the floor.

Javert smiled, then bent his head over his letters again.

Valjean exhaled. His knees were aching. The hemp rope rasped against the tender skin of his balls when he tried to shift even a little, so that he drew in a breath, freezing immediately, his cock steadily aching.

The lamp was burning just as steadily. Valjean tried to focus on the circle of golden light once more, trying to find his way to the serenity he had found in this very study so often before, but today it wouldn’t come. The slide of rope against skin was too distracting.

At last, Valjean settled his eyes on Javert, breathless and shivering, watching the hand that held the pen.

How many pages left? Impossible to tell.

Valjean resisted the urge to squirm, knowing how the rope would chafe. All he could do was watch and wait, and pray that even Javert’s patience would eventually end.

It was rare that Javert was the first to wake. His days followed a routine, which was how he liked it, and that routine included the pleasure of waking to Valjean’s mouth wrapped around his cock. 

This morning was different. They had arrived late last evening at Valjean’s small farm after a ride through swiftly falling snow. When they’d retired to bed after dinner, he had told Valjean not to wake him in the morning.

As much as Javert liked routine and his position in the prefecture, he could not deny that there was also pleasure in a good night’s sleep, the stove burning through the night and warming their chamber beneath the roof while snow kept falling, piling high upon the window sill.

Javert turned a little until he came to rest against Valjean, burying a hand in his hair as he watched the snow that was still falling outside. The sun had already risen, the icicles hanging from the roof sparkling in the light.

If it kept snowing, they might not be able to leave for a few days…

Javert switched his attention back to Valjean, idly running his fingers through his hair.

Years ago, the lightest touch would have caused Valjean to startle awake in a panic. Javert could still feel old scars hidden beneath the hair against his fingertips. Now, Valjean slept on trustingly, relaxed in sleep so that the perpetual lines of worry surrounding his mouth had vanished, giving him a much younger appearance.

How man years had Valjean slept in his bed now? Yet even after all this time, every time Javert woke to feel Valjean’s warm, firm body next to his own, he was filled with possessive pride and a hunger that had never lessened.

Javert ran his hand down Valjean’s back, relishing the firm muscle. Valjean kept sleeping, even when Javert ran his hand over Valjean’s backside, curving around the round, firm cheeks in appreciation.

Javert’s cock was already beginning to stir with interest; it would be easy to wake Valjean and enjoy the familiar heat of his mouth. Instead, Javert trailed a finger down the crease between Valjean’s cheeks, lightly rubbing against the small opening. Valjean continued to sleep, although he moved a little and pressed himself closer to Javert, legs shifting to give Javert better access.

How long before Valjean woke? Javert wondered idly, pressing his fingertip against the tight muscle until he felt Valjean’s body open for him and swallow him inside. Oil would have made it easier; still, even in his sleep Valjean’s body was willing enough, and Javert soon found himself sinking in up to the second knuckle, the rhythm of Valjean’s breathing changing as he shifted again.

Valjean had begun to harden at Javert’s exploration, his hips instinctively searching out Javert’s thigh. As Javert continued to curl his finger within him, slowly sliding in and out, Valjean began to move against him, shamelessly seeking out his own pleasure.

By the time he woke at last with a confused little gasp, Valjean was fully hard. Javert gave him no time to realize where he was and what was happening.

He pressed his thigh firmly between Valjean’s legs, his finger pressing inward just as demandingly, and Valjean moaned in return, his body trembling against Javert as his release spilled warm and wet between their bodies.

“Good morning,” Javert said, pleased with himself as he surveyed what he had wrought: Valjean’s heaving chest, his flushed face, eyes soft and overwhelmed.

“Good morning,” Valjean managed after a moment, looking around at their unfamiliar surroundings until memory returned.

“I think we will have to stay all weekend.” Javert eyed the snow piling high outside the window, not even bothering to hide his satisfaction.

He was still hard himself—but there was time. All the time in the world to slide into Valjean’s warm body and enjoy him, still pliant and dazed from orgasm. Enough time even to nap together for half an hour afterward, his cock still inside Valjean.

Then a leisurely breakfast, and perhaps a walk in the snow. And when they returned—well, there were many ways to enjoy Valjean’s company. The prefecture would just have to manage without him for a few days.

This one is set in some sort of omega-verse-ish AU where Valjean has the terrible luck to never really experience a heat thanks to deprivation until he finds himself in Javert's bed in Montreuil.

He should have known, Javert thought. Hadn’t he always prided himself on being a man no convict could hide from?

He should have known. There must have been signs.

Was this what had drawn him to Valjean all these years ago...?

But there had been no signs. Not the smallest clue had prepared him for what he found when he entered his bedroom where Valjean had been waiting for him, his clothes in a pile on the floor and Valjean’s hunched, naked form kneeling on his bed, shivering.

The smell of him hit Javert like a blow to the stomach, so strong he nearly doubled over as something wild and hot burst into flame deep in his chest.

Impossible. It was absolutely impossible. Hadn’t he known Valjean for nearly two decades now, all the way from the hulks to his days as mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer to his indenture as a servant of the town?

And yet, the scent that filled the room did not lie. Heady and seductive, it was the scent of a creature in heat—and it came from where Valjean trembled on his bed, his skin flushed and his posture that of abject misery.

When Javert approached, he at last looked up.

He was, Javert noted with distracted satisfaction, at least sensible enough to feel shame for the mess he’d dragged them both into.

“You...” Javert said slowly through his teeth.

Valjean shivered, mouth tense, but he didn’t look away.

“Impossible,” Javert said. “In the hulks, you never—”

“Perhaps if you’d fed us,” Valjean said bitterly. “Perhaps if you hadn’t worked us to the bone—”

“Be silent,” Javert said, although he was too shaken to speak as harshly as he wanted to. “I will have none of your disrespect.”

“No.” Valjean laughed, a choked sound nearly a sob. “There’s something else you’ll have from me.”

Javert wanted to deny it, but he was already so close that he could see the sweat drops on Valjean’s skin, moisture beading along his back, his skin flushed.

For a moment, fury rose in Javert—for him to have been tricked! Then another wash of hunger made him forget everything but the struggle to open the knot of his cravat.

He still had enough sense of mind to undress carefully and fold his clothes, at least; he was proud of that.

Valjean kept his eyes doggedly on the bed, but when Javert first touched him, Valjean gasped and his head turned, his face unguarded so that Javert could see the need, the shock—and the fear.

Perhaps it had been no trickery. In either case, it was too late now. He was certain that Valjean was well aware of that.

Valjean was quiet when he slid inside him, but there were tears on his face. Even so, Valjean did not stay quiet for long, his body trembling as every slow, deep thrust made him moan and squirm against Javert for more.

This was different, Javert thought dimly. For a week now, he’d had Valjean in his bed, and although Valjean had always come willingly enough, today he couldn’t stop shaking against Javert and pressing back against him, so hot and soft inside. Javert licked at the sweat beading at Valjean’s nape, then let his teeth scrape against Valjean’s shoulder.

Valjean froze and cried out, shivering, and the sound unleashed something inside Javert he had never experienced before. Desperately, he tried to push even deeper, aching with the need to spill himself inside Valjean, but not yet, not yet…

Another thrust, and another, deeper than ever before. He had never experienced anything like it: Valjean’s body so hot and yielding and willing as Valjean writhed against him, reduced to incoherent moans, wet with sweat that reeked of lust and need and only drove Javert to a deeper frenzy.

Javert scraped his teeth against Valjean’s shoulder again, then bit down, punishingly hard. As Valjean sobbed, Javert’s balls throbbed, emptying themselves deep inside Valjean who shivered and instinctively held still, pushing back against Javert as they panted together.

“There’s more,” Javert murmured into his ear a minute later. He was still hard, his balls still aching, Valjean still sweaty and pliant in his arms, hole throbbing around him.

He brushed his lips against Valjean’s ear, felt him shiver again— a shiver that ran through his entire body until Javert could feel it surrounding his cock, sucking him even deeper inside.

“I know what you want,” Javert said hoarsely, “and you’ll have it. I’m going to fill you until you can barely walk. I’m going to keep my cock inside you all night, until…. Until….”

He swallowed thickly. He couldn’t make himself say it, the fantasy too powerful—but Valjean knew what this heat meant. Valjean knew, even now, what it meant—what it could mean—for Javert to fill him with his seed all night until it would drip down Valjean’s trembling thighs when he rose in the morning…

“You want that, don’t you? Say you want it.”

Valjean sobbed again, still squirming against him—not trying to break free, but to press himself even closer. “Please, Javert,” he rasped. “Please…”

It was impossible, Javert knew that. At Valjean’s age—after the deprivations of the hulks, a man who had not even experienced a heat since those early days…

And then, Valjean was a convict, a man who’d schemed and lied and at last had agreed to indenture. There was no way Valjean was still ripe for breeding, and even if it were possible, why would Javert want such a thing?

It was a fantasy, that was all, an illusion brought on by the scent of Valjean’s heat and the taste of his sweat.

Even so, Javert couldn’t keep himself from wrapping an arm around Valjean, grasping hold of his hand and pushing it down against his stomach. There Javert held it with his own, letting Valjean feel the motion of his cock as he slowly began to thrust again, lips brushing against Valjean’s nape as he abandoned himself to a frenzy he’d never felt before.

Nervously, Valjean tongued the metal bit in his mouth, glad that Javert stood in front of him and blocked him from the crowd.

Two dozen men had gathered once more in the picturesque mansion near Saint-Cloud, most of them dressed in their best, including Javert.

Several of the men, on the other hand, had entered the large room bare, dressed at most with a few straps of leather or jingling chains.

Javert’s tastes ran towards simplicity when it came to Valjean, and so Valjean wore only a bridle made of soft, black leather and a harness of the same material, to which his wrists had been chained. This time, there was no ring clasped tightly around his cock and balls, encouraging him to stay hard—but the truth was that despite the mortifying display, Valjean’s cock had been hard from the moment Javert had patiently slid the tail into him, and his arousal hadn’t waned even when they entered the large room where all eyes rested on him.

“Behave,” Javert said warningly and gave his reins a little shake. “You’re not going to embarrass me tonight.”

Valjean exhaled past the discomfort of the bit in his mouth and shook his head in obedience, although he couldn’t entirely hide his nerves.

It was just a game, he told himself. Javert would never allow any harm to come to him. It was merely a game for the amusement of the men gathered here tonight, and the auction would raise money that would go towards the school of the nearby village. There was no need to be afraid.

Still, Valjean found himself shaking a little when it was his time to approach the dais. He stepped onto it obediently enough, but when the reins changed from Javert’s hands to those of the auctioneer, Valjean shook his head a little, ribbons and mane flying, and exhaled loudly. 

Javert gave him a stern look, even as he backed away, but there were sounds of approval from the crowd.

“A fiery one,” someone said.

“Too strong for you,” another answered.

“Surely too old to fetch a good price tonight,” yet another man sneered—a voice Valjean recognized with a shock as that of Red’s master.

Valjean shook his head again, trying to search for Javert in the crowd, but men had begun to crowd around him and made it difficult to see.

“Don’t be a fool, Jacques,” a cheerful voice now said. “Look at those muscles. What a magnificent creature he is!”

That voice Valjean knew as well—Raven’s master, Monsieur Delisle, who had a manor of his own not far away.

Valjean settled his eyes on him in gratitude, relieved to know he had one ally here tonight.

“Yes, magnificent indeed,” Delisle murmured, more to himself than to Valjean as another made way for him.

Valjean swallowed, feeling the eyes of the crowd on his exposed body. With his wrists chained to the harness, he could not even cover himself—although in any case, it was too late to hide the evidence of his stubbornly swollen cock, which had been aching for a touch all evening.

“No need to be shy,” another man said, his hand running down Valjean’s arm, squeezing his biceps, then sliding back to stroke his backside with an appreciative sound. “Let’s have a better look at him.”

The auctioneer tugged on Valjean’s reins, and with a last, desperate look out at the crowd, hoping for a glimpse of Javert, Valjean followed and turned shakily, letting the gathered men see his scarred back.

Most of the men here had seen him before, but even so there were some murmurs.

Did they believe Javert had whipped him so cruelly?

Yet even if they did, why should that upset Valjean? Was that not closer to the truth than whatever else these men might believe of him?

Confused, Valjean pushed the thought aside. Whatever had happened in the hulks, it had nothing to do with what would happen to him here. Even trembling, caught between shame and arousal, he knew that just as well as he knew that Javert wouldn’t allow any harm to come to him tonight.

Another pair of hands closed around Valjean’s buttocks, massaging and squeezing, a finger testing the snug fit of his oiled hole around the horsetail plug that filled him. Valjean shivered, his hole contracting around the plug at the touch of a man he could not even see, and even then another hand ran up his thigh, found his cock, stroked him once while Valjean shuddered in mortified pleasure, exposed there for all to see upon the dais.

“Fit to be worked hard, despite his age,” another stranger said. “Will he fetch more than Red, do you think?”

“A scarred beast like that? Don’t be a fool,” Red’s owner scoffed. “There’s no comparison at all.”

Valjean groaned around the bit in his mouth, holding still when the man’s hands found his balls and squeezed cruelly. The pain made him pant, tears rising to his eyes; worse was the sickening realization that Red’s master might buy him this evening, and then he’d find himself the toy of a man who’d made it more than clear that he loathed him.

What would a man like Red’s master choose to do to him?

Despite the pain, Valjean’s cock throbbed shamelessly at the thought as his stomach twisted.

He tried to blink back the tears, reminding himself of what was at stake—not his own reputation but that of Javert. He panted quietly, shivering and holding still when Red’s master released his balls and grabbed hold of his cock instead.

“I don’t think you’re worth the money,” the man sneered, “but it might be a worthwhile investment, if only to teach you some manners.”

Despite Javert’s orders, Valjean squirmed, his mouth dry as he kept imagining a night spent as such a man’s plaything.

“Aren’t you forgetting something there?” Delisle’s voice came calmly from behind him. “You’ll have to win the auction first.”

“Don’t tell me you’re interested in the creature yourself?”

Red’s master finally released Valjean. A long string of sticky fluid glistened in the air, stretching between his fine doeskin gloves and the tip of Valjean’s aching cock.

With a disgusted look at Valjean, the man wiped his gloves on Valjean’s chest. “Someone does need to teach you a lesson,” he said. “Why not me?”

Valjean swallowed desperately as their eyes met. He barely registered the hands that ran down his back, pried his buttocks apart, toyed with the plug inside him. Another string of fluid dripped from his cock while Red’s master watched him with a cold, knowing smile.

Then, at last, he turned away. Delisle took his place, smiling at Valjean as he ran a hand down his chest, squeezing the firm muscle.

“Ignore him,” Delisle said. “No taste, that man. Why, if you were mine, I’d string you up in my garden all day, the finest of statues for all promenaders to admire.”

That thought made Valjean shiver, too, as his cock gave another distinct jerk.

Delisle laughed softly. Then he leaned forward. “If I win you for the night,” he said quietly, “I expect you to show my Raven a good time. You can do that, can’t you? And perhaps I’d sample your mouth. I hear it is a very fine mouth.”

“The finest,” Javert said.

Valjean flinched in shock as he turned his head. When had Javert made it to the dais? Had he heard everything that had been said—even the threats of Red’s master?

Valjean gave Javert a pleading look. Surely he would not abandon Valjean to such a man?

But Javert ignored him and turned aside with Delisle, heads tilted together as they talked, voices so low that Valjean couldn’t make out anything.

Then another hand ran up Valjean’s chest, feeling his muscles before teasing a nipple, and a light tug on the reins by the auctioneer made him turn back around to face the small crowd once more.

Valjean shivered, painfully aware of how hard he was, still, after so many strangers’ hands had run up and down his body—even after what Red’s master had threatened.

Surely Javert wouldn’t allow it, he thought again. Surely Javert had planned for Delisle to bid on him—a man he knew and found trustworthy.

Even so, when Valjean scanned the crowd once more and found Red’s master watching him with a small, cold smile on his lips, he had no explanation at all for the way shame and a horrified want twisted in his stomach, his body tingling with heat wherever hands had touched him.

It was a peaceful, quiet winter night. Snow was falling outside, the apartment warmed by a fire crackling in the stove, and Valjean was spread out before him, tied so that he couldn’t move when Javert tilted his candle and allowed hot wax to drip onto Valjean’s skin.

Strings of pearlescent white gleamed on Valjean’s backside. The sight was appealing, and not at all unfamiliar; it spoke of things to come, although the wax was a less transient sight than that of Javert’s come spattered all over Valjean.

The liquid wax hardened as soon as it hit Valjean’s skin in little splashes and drips, the heat of it making Valjean moan and squirm.

Javert could have sternly told him to hold still for it, and Valjean would have obeyed—but Javert was no fool and had long since seen the way Valjean’s breathing changed when he tied him.

So Valjean had been tied, and Javert had taken his time teasing him with the candle, excited by the tableau of pale wax dripping down firm thighs and round buttocks, Valjean’s helpless little squirms and gasps at the unexpected moments of burning heat, and the sensitive, reddened skin that appeared whenever Javert scraped away a hardened drop.

Again he tilted the candle, and Valjean stifled a moan in the pillow when the hot wax dripped down the curve of his buttocks.

Javert inclined his head thoughtfully, then moved the candle before tilting it again.

This time, the wax spilled down the crease between Valjean’s buttocks, his hole clenching desperately when the hot wax ran over it. A heartbeat later, it had cooled into droplets of white that clung to the sensitive skin, and Javert laughed, more than pleased by the sight.

“This is how I like you best,” he murmured thickly. “If you could see yourself...”

More liquid wax had pooled beneath the burning candlewick. Javert allowed it to fall, another string of pearly white running down Valjean’s crease, splashing onto his hole so that Valjean shuddered and sobbed, the tender muscle clenching desperately.

“Too hot?” Javert said with mock pity. He pressed his thumb to Valjean’s hole, stroked him lightly without pressing inside, the wax malleable and warm against his fingertip.

“Want me to make you feel better?”

“Please, sir,” Valjean begged, squirming—his reddened thighs still spread wide open.

Javert smiled at the inviting sight, then turned away to open the window.

Cold air streamed inside. Some of the snow that had accumulated outside the window fell down as Javert retrieved a small bag. He closed the window again and settled on the bed behind Valjean once more, nudging his thigh to make him spread himself even wider.

“Hold still,” he said sternly.

Valjean obeyed with another little sob, his wax-flecked hole constricting in anticipation of another spill of burning wax.

Instead, Javert reached into the bag, took out an ice cube and pressed it against Valjean’s hole.

It was already mostly inside him before Valjean’s body caught up to the confusing sensation—ice where he had expected fire. His reaction was all Javert had hoped for: a gasp, Valjean’s body convulsing, shaking all over as he tried to make sense of what was happening to him.

Smiling, Javert reached into the bag again and picked another cube. This time, he took his time, spreading Valjean open with one hand while he pressed the ice against him with the other.

Valjean whimpered and shivered, his muscle clenching tightly at the icy sensation, but Javert pressed the ice against him unremittingly, and Valjean’s body knew better than to disobey. Drops of ice water were running down Valjean’s thighs by the time the cube was firmly inside him.

“Better?” Javert asked innocently, already reaching for the next ice cubing and pushing it into Valjean before Valjean could answer.

How many could he fit inside Valjean? He had contemplated the question earlier when he had prepared for the night. At least ten, he had thought then. Now, with Valjean’s body obediently taking everything Javert gave him, he wondered if it might not be twice at much—all the ice cubes he had inside the bag.

Valjean took five more without complaint before he started squirming again, his cock full and hard.

“Do you like that?” Javert took another ice cube, only to press it teasingly to the tip of Valjean’s cock this time.

Valjean flinched with a soft cry, trying desperately to move away, although Javert had tied him too firmly for that.

“Cold, sir,” he said plaintively.

Javert laughed. “I thought you were too hot?”

He took pity on Valjean’s aching cock, still hard despite the ice, and pushed the melting cube into Valjean’s swollen hole. Ice water came dripping from it, running down Valjean’s balls and cock so that Valjean shivered miserably.

Then, swiftly, Javert took hold of the candle again, the pooling molten wax spilling down onto the chilled skin.

This time, Valjean cried out, shaking as the hot wax cooled into a new layer of white spatters and drips around his hole.

“Weren’t you just complaining that you were too cold?” Javert asked, already a new ice cube at the ready. Valjean’s protesting hole opened for it while Valjean sobbed and shook, more ice melt dripping out of his hole to trickle over the hardening wax.

How many of the cubes had he used by now? Half of the ice in the bag was gone, currently melting inside the heat of Valjean.

Smiling, Javert selected another cube, scraping at a string of hardened wax with his nail so that Valjean shivered at the sensation. 

The evening was far from over. Javert had all the time in the world.

And Valjean wouldn’t come until Javert had filled him with all the ice cubes in the bag, he thought—slowly melting into ice water inside Valjean while Javert found out what sounds he would make when the hot wax was dripped right onto his swollen cock, drop after drop after drop.

The gloves had been a gift: gray doeskin leather, as soft as velvet, of the same quality as an officer’s riding gloves, and purchased from a shop catering to just that clientèle.

It was a gift Valjean had known would please Javert. An item of the finest quality and beauty, useful and exquisite at once, was exactly what Javert prized most.

Now, as Valjean found himself pressed against the wall of the opera box, Javert’s leather-clad hand grasping his chin and tilting up his head to bear his throat above the cravat, Valjean found himself shivering nervously in anticipation.

Javert’s lips brushed his skin, the slight scratch of Javert’s meticulously groomed beard against over-sensitized skin making Valjean bite his lip to keep from gasping. 

The theater was already filled by the murmuring of the crowd. Here, pressed against the wall of the box in a corner, Valjean knew that they were out of view. Even so, when Javert’s teeth dug into the sensitive skin of his throat, sucking hard enough to bruise, Valjean felt lightheaded from the awareness that only a thin wall divided them from the corridor outside.

Javert smiled faintly, as if he knew that Valjean’s knees had grown so weak that the wall at his back was all that kept him upright. Then Javert hooked a gloved finger into Valjean’s cravat and tugged it open, fully baring Valjean’s throat.

“Look at you. What a mess you are,” he murmured. “Do you think I’ll let you sit in a box with me looking like this?”

Valjean barely registered his words when Javert’s finger trailed down his throat. Javert’s thumb stroked the side of his mouth; when Valjean inhaled, all he could smell was the leather, the scent of its newness mingling with the sandalwood of Javert’s aftershave.

Valjean’s lips parted, a moan stuck in his throat, and Javert pressed a gloved finger to his mouth.

“Shh. Don’t embarrass me tonight. You know people can see you once you sit down.”

Valjean swallowed desperately, trying to nod. Javert gave him another soft laugh, his fingers sliding downward as if by accident, until they settled lightly around Valjean’s throat.

There was no pressure, just the threat of the touch itself, but still Valjean found himself shivering at the sensation: instead of the familiar warmth of Javert’s fingers, all he could feel was the thin, soft leather, warmed by Javert’s skin.

Valjean tilted his head back, baring his throat to Javert, and Javert’s lips twitched with amusement.

“Don’t tempt me,” Javert said quietly. “If you do, I will make you stand in this corner with your face to the wall and your trousers around your feet, your ass red from my hand, all evening. You know I will.”

Valjean tried to speak but found he could not, the threat too seductive to contemplate.

Javert stroked his throat ever so lightly with the pad of his thumb, lingering where Valjean knew Javert could feel the rapid thudding of his pulse through the thin leather.

“I’ll be good, sir,” Valjean rasped at last. “I promise.”

Javert raised a brow but released him, still smiling slightly.

Then there was a knock on the door of their box, and Valjean flinched. Javert merely gazed at him with smug calmness.

“Ah, yes. Did I forget to mention that we would have company?” Javert said, reaching out to wind the cravat around Valjean’s throat once more.

He tied it in place with a fashionable knot with gloved hands that betrayed no sign of nerves while Valjean could still feel himself trembling. Then Javert turned away from him and went to open the door.

It took a moment until Valjean realized that the man who entered was not the guest Javert must have been expecting.

“Ah, Javert. I thought it was you I saw when I left the saloon.”

“Monsieur Gisquet,” Javert said politely, and Valjean felt color rise to his cheeks.

Hastily, Valjean turned away, keeping his face in the shadows as he felt his cravat with shaking fingers—but all was in order. Javert had tied it neatly. And surely it would cover whatever bruise Javert’s lips had raised on his throat. Javert was too careful with his reputation to ever be careless, Valjean knew that.

Even so, where a moment ago Valjean had fantasized about a leather-clad hand delivering a merciless chastisement that would leave him aching and flushed all evening, now he felt himself flush all over with mortification at the terrible turn the evening had taken.

The prefect of police, here with him in this small box from which there was no polite escape...

“And who’s your friend, Javert? Won’t you introduce us?” Gisquet demanded, and Valjean felt his heart contract painfully in his chest.

Then there was another knock on the door.

Javert used the distraction to step away from Gisquet, abandoning Valjean with the prefect of police. A moment later, before Gisquet could think to question Valjean, two newcomers entered the box, and Valjean knew himself saved when he heard familiar voices.

“Monsieur le Préfet. What a surprise to find you in my box.”

Raven, Valjean thought with a breath of relief, at the same time as Gisquet said, “Vicomte. What a surprise. I did not know Javert shared a box with the city’s finest prosecutor.”

Raven merely laughed while Valjean watched, stunned.

It was true that he knew little about who Raven was, outside of the hours spent together at Delisle’s farm or the club’s gatherings Javert had taken him to. Perhaps it should not come as a shock that a man who enjoyed spending an evening in a leather harness and wearing a tail plug might also hold an eminently respectable position. And indeed, Raven was clearly known to the prefect, who just as obviously did not like him but had no choice but to treat him with all the respect he would not show Javert.

And yet—a prosecutor…

Valjean’s mind flashed back to the terror of finding himself in a courtroom, facing just such a man. Then he forced the memory away, afraid that somehow Gisquet might see the turmoil on his face and know him for just what he was.

Instead, Valjean took a step back deeper into the shadows. He watched as Gisquet, who found himself so suddenly outranked—and outshone, for both Raven and Delisle had dressed well for the occasion—tried to make sense of why Javert, a simple chief inspector, should see an opera in the box of two wealthy and well-connected men.

With a laugh, Raven gestured, black locks gleaming in the light of the chandelier, his hand encompassing Delisle, Javert and Valjean.

“I have merely invited friends to share my box tonight, Monsieur le Préfet. Surely it cannot come as a surprise to you that a man in my position would come to know the prefecture’s chief inspector?”

“Javert’s a busy man,” Gisquet said. “As he should be, given the crime—”

“Oh please, Monsieur le Préfet.” Raven laughed. “The only crime we will see tonight will happen on stage. Now if you will excuse us—is that the bell I hear?”

It was indeed the bell, and Gisquet, brows drawn together despite the thin veneer of politeness, left the room in obvious displeasure.

What a curious encounter, Valjean thought, still reeling from shock. And yet, nearly almost as shocking as Gisquet’s intrusion and Raven’s position was the fact that here, at last, was a man who had not been charmed by Raven’s dark locks, beautiful smiles and agreeable nature.

Even Valjean himself, by nature suspicious of any kindness, had found himself unable to resist that charisma for very long.

Could it be that Gisquet was jealous of Raven’s beauty and charm, or of his title and money? And if that was true, what might this revelation mean for Javert, now that Gisquet had found out about their friendship?

And then, there was the added complication of the true nature of their friendship, the common interest that had first brought Javert to their club…

“Forgive me, we are very late,” Raven said, mischievously leaning in to press a kiss to Valjean’s cheek that made him blush, even as it pulled him back from his ruminations.

“Sit, please; we will talk after.”

Below, the orchestra had begun to play. Valjean took his seat, looking around to see if he could spy Gisquet; fortunately, he wasn’t seated in any of the boxes opposite them.

Then Javert’s hand landed on his knee, and Valjean forced himself to exhale as it slowly slid upward. He spread his legs slightly, giving Javert access to whatever he wanted despite his trepidation—surely Javert would not dare, not with Gisquet in the audience?

Javert’s hand settled at the top of his thigh, the edge of his hand resting against Valjean’s cock. There was no pressure—just a familiar weight that anchored him, Javert’s touch possessive and protective at once.

Valjean rested his own hand on top of Javert’s. The fine doeskin of the glove was as smooth as silk beneath his fingers. It had been a good gift, he thought again. Javert appreciated it.

And who knew—maybe, if the opera turned out to be particularly long-winded, Javert might yet decide to entertain himself by slipping his gloved hand into Valjean’s trousers, right here in Raven’s box…

Valjean shifted nervously, his throat tight as he waited. 

It had been a busy week for Javert; there had been evenings when he had been too tired for anything more strenuous than relaxing in his chair by the fire for half an hour with a glass of wine and Valjean’s mouth gently and reverently coaxing him to release.

Valjean did not begrudge the missing attention. He had cherished those evenings, the intimacy of his head buried in Javert’s lap, Javert’s hand in his hair, the fire in the stove burning at his back, Javert’s soft sound of relief when he spilled himself on Valjean’s tongue.

Valjean had been useful; he had given Javert moments of true rest during a taxing time, and that knowledge was something he carried in his heart all through the week.

But now that the week was over and Javert’s workload would return to what they were both accustomed to, Javert was fractious. Pent-up energy made him irritable, and Valjean knew just how that energy would be best released.

He had half considered giving Javert a reason to take a belt to his backside, but then could not bring himself to voluntarily antagonize Javert—not when Javert had looked so uncharacteristically exhausted.

Instead, Valjean had taken care to wake Javert the way he was accustomed to, coaxing his cock to hardness with gentle lips and then swallowing him into his mouth so that Javert woke to pleasure and the knowledge that he was loved and adored.

Often, Javert would reach out to stroke Valjean afterwards in turn so he could find his own release; today, he hadn’t.

Valjean didn’t mind. It only added to the anticipation. Javert needed an outlet for the week’s frustrations, and Valjean was glad to be of service. And then, Javert had never made him wait for very long.

Whatever it was Javert had in store for him, Valjean would know very soon.

When Javert returned, he was wearing nothing but his dressing gown of embroidered, red silk. He was carrying a cup of coffee from which steam was still rising. He took a sip from it as he settled in the chair by the window, through which golden autumn light fell in, illuminating his features.

There was a slight smile on his face as he watched Valjean, clearly pleased by the sight, although he didn’t speak.

Valjean in turn was glad to wait in silence, much of the earlier apprehension gone. He knew this game Javert was playing—at least this part of it. With Javert’s eyes resting on him, warm with affection, the simple act of kneeling on the floor as he awaited Javert’s orders, naked and exposed, became something loving and meaningful—a very simple act, truly, to demonstrate his devotion.

When Javert had finished his coffee, he set the cup aside. Then he stood and leisurely moved towards where he kept a selection of riding crops, testing one after the other.

Valjean swallowed, his heart beating in his chest as he felt himself harden at the sight. There was something about the way Javert moved—his confidence, his determination, the elegance of slim limbs hard with muscle. 

It was impossible to hide his body’s reaction, and Valjean didn’t try. Javert, in any case, seemed to like what he saw, judging by the way his eyes lingered on Valjean as he bent his crop before letting it snap back.

Javert returned the crop and took up another, running his fingers along the leather. His dressing gown had fallen open, baring the full length of his body to Valjean’s eyes, and Valjean watched, dazzled, as the sunlight that fell in painted golden lines on him.

Javert still ignored him. He tested a third crop, listening to the sound it made as it cut through the air, then finally returned it as well, his choice made.

It was the crop he had taken out first—the newest, and one Valjean had not yet felt.

“I’ve been looking forward to how this would feel in my hand all week,” Javert said quietly when he approached, still smiling, still filled with a restless energy that needed an outlet. “And do you know what else I have been looking forward to all week?”

Valjean swallowed and licked his lips. “Me, sir?”

“I’ve had you, didn’t I? No—I’ve been looking forward to the red welts I’m going to leave on you this morning. They’ll stay on your skin all weekend, for me to admire whenever I want.”

The thought was arousing—the welts a constant reminder of Javert, of what Javert wanted to do to him, of what he let Javert do, even when they walked through the park or went to a shop or to a theater.

Javert gestured for him to get up. Once he stood, Javert pushed him towards the chest of drawers that stood beneath the window.

“Lean forward,” Javert said. “Hands against the window.”

Now Valjean hesitated for the first time, suddenly aware of his nakedness. Would he be visible from below? Their apartment was situated above the stable; there was a tree that grew near their window that would shield him from view, and surely the houses on the other side of the yard were too far away.

Nevertheless, it took courage to do as Javert said. When Valjean’s palms touched the glass, he shivered, although the sun was still shining brightly, golden autumn light spilling in. Outside, the leaves had begun to turn, a tapestry of yellow and orange and red glowing in the sun.

Valjean looked down, eyes on the aged wood of the chest as he waited.

Javert ran a hand down his side, lingering to curve his fingers around his buttocks, squeezing slightly. Then he took a step back.

There was no warning before the crop came down, but Valjean had known all along what was to follow. Still, the sudden sting of it made him cry out softly as a burning line sprang up on his skin.

Javert did not believe in holding back, and Valjean did not want him to. The crop hurt—but even so, helpless and exposed as he was, it made heat thrum through his blood, his cock hard and aching.

Once more the crop cut through the air with a swoosh. Another line of fire followed, and Valjean panted, fingers sliding over the glass as he tried to hold himself up.

“I wish you could watch yourself,” Javert murmured, the words thick with satisfaction as he stroked along a welt.

Another stroke with the crop, and Valjean’s knees trembled.

Heat ran through him, electrifying pain that sizzled along nerves until his entire body throbbed with it in the rhythm of his heartbeat. His balls were full and aching, hanging vulnerably between his thighs, exposed to Javert’s whims. His panting breaths were fogging up the glass.

Valjean moaned as he squirmed, needing—something, anything...

The crop came down once more. The impact stung; he had to swallow another cry. Somewhere below, he could hear the sounds of a carriage entering the yard, and all Valjean could do was pant, trapped between the window and Javert and exposed in all his shameful arousal.

How often had the riding crop struck? Valjean had lost count. His backside was burning, and still it came down, adding another welt, a second, a third.

Like a butterfly pierced by a pin, transfixed by a terrible ecstasy, Valjean felt himself held trembling above an abyss by Javert’s hand.

Then Javert put the crop aside, and Valjean choked back a cry when Javert stroked his aching buttocks, tracing each of the welts he had raised with loving cruelty.

“These will last a while,” Javert said, and Valjean could hear the hunger in the breathlessness of his voice.

Javert pulled his buttocks apart, a finger teasing in between. “Have you had enough?”

Valjean moaned, eyes unable to focus on the yard beyond the fogged window.

“Please,” he groaned, and Javert laughed.

A drawer was opened; something clinked. A second later, Javert pressed against him, his cock slick with oil.

Despite the ache of his buttocks, Valjean was hungry for what was to come, his body opening easily for Javert so that he could sink deep inside with a single stroke that made Valjean gasp and drove tears to his eyes.

Javert exhaled against his ear. He didn’t move. Valjean was still panting against the window pane, sweat-slick hands sliding over the fogged glass.

Then Javert’s arms came around him, embracing him tightly, Javert’s lips warm against his ear.

Valjean could feel Javert hot and hard deep inside him, the pressure sending sparks of ecstasy through him that made it almost impossible to hold still. The welts Javert had raised were still throbbing fiercely as well.

“All mine,” Javert said quietly.

His arms tightened; his lips brushed Valjean’s ear. He didn’t move—and despite the almost painful need, Valjean held still, listening to Javert’s breathing and savoring the sensation of arms around him and the firm heat of Javert’s cock buried deep inside him as they stood together.

“This. This is what I’ve missed.”

Javert had tied him in a comfortable position on the bed, his wrists bound behind his back, his legs spread open. His back leaned against the bed’s headboard, pillows stuffed behind him.

From these preparations, Valjean had deduced that Javert planned to take his time with him today, and the thought was exciting. Tomorrow was Sunday, and they would walk in the park with Fantine and Cosette after mass; today, he was Javert’s from morning until night, and if Javert wanted him tied and available for all the hours of the day, Valjean would not mind that.

Javert leaned over him, still dressed—another sign that whatever Javert had in store for him was something that would take time. His lips brushed against Valjean’s, then his tongue slid between his lips. Valjean moaned softly, finding himself slowly and thoroughly kissed.

He was hard—had been since Javert had made him strip and tied him. When Javert pulled back, he wrapped his hand around Valjean and stroked him slowly. Valjean doubted that Javert would end it so fast; even so, the sensation was so good that it didn’t take long until he was close, back arching as he tried unsuccessfully to move into Javert’s touch, silently begging for more than what Javert was giving him.

With a soft, pleased laugh, Javert released him. The only stimulation came from Javert’s fingertip, which was slowly circling the tip of Valjean’s cock.

Valjean shivered. Fluid had already welled up, the crown of his cock glistening with it. Javert’s finger teased at the small, sensitive slit, and more droplets escaped, running downward until they dripped from the rim of the crown to his heaving stomach.

“Look at you,” Javert said thickly. “Such a mess. A man your age, and still so little control...”

Again Javert’s finger trailed over the tip, teasing the small hole. As if summoned by his words, another drop welled up.

“So sensitive,” Javert said. “I’ve always wanted to see how you’d like this.”

Valjean had to swallow before he could speak. “Like what, sir?”

Javert leaned forward, distracting him with another kiss while he reached out for something on the nightstand.

This time, when he drew back, he was holding something in his hand—a slender rod of gleaming steel, rounded at the tip.

As Valjean watched, trying to make sense of it, Javert touched it lightly to the tip of Valjean’s cock, lovingly sliding it through the droplets that kept welling up from the slit until it was thoroughly coated in the glistening fluid.

Valjean trembled. The steel was cool against his sensitive skin, the sensation strange but pleasant. Next, Javert rubbed it lightly against the small opening itself, and Valjean felt his toes curl, something inside his stomach tightening with terror and excitement as an idea came to him.

Before he had time to say anything, Javert straightened the rod and gently pushed against the tiny hole.

Eyes wide, breath stuck in his throat, Valjean watched in disbelief as his body opened up for it, the cool, smooth steel sliding right into his body.

He shuddered, eyes falling closed as he tried to make sense of the sensation. It burned—cool steel rubbing against the inside of his cock, filling him in a way he had never felt before. 

Javert twisted the rod, swirling it around inside him, and Valjean moaned shakily, balls tight and full despite the frightening strangeness of it.

“So sensitive,” Javert said with satisfaction, as if the intensity of what Valjean was going through had merely proved a theory for him. “Look at how hungry it is.”

Breathless, Valjean forced his eyes open again—only to watch in disbelief as Javert gently pulled the rod up an inch and then released his hold on it.

Valjean cried out instinctively, trembling as he watched the rod sink down into his body, following the relentless pull of gravity. It felt incredible—the cool burn of the steel sinking deeper and deeper inside him, the small hole devouring the rod with greed, more fluid welling up at the tip and dripping down.

It should have been impossible—but his cock swallowed the entire rod in one smooth, hungry movement, his urethra stretching open for it while Valjean moaned in disbelief.

Javert didn’t touch him. Even so, Valjean could barely bear the sensation—a part of his body that had never been touched before had suddenly been stretched open and invaded, an impossible violation that at the same time sent a constant throb of aching need searing through his balls. He could watch the muscles of his body contract as his hips shifted instinctively. Even the slightest motion intensified the sensation of being stretched and touched inside.

“Look at how greedy it is,” Javert murmured throatily, gently nudging his swollen cock with a finger. “Never content. Always wanting more.”

Valjean was past words, could only moan breathlessly, and Javert once again leaned over him, amusement in his eyes, to kiss him while Valjean trembled helplessly.

A minute or two might have passed before he drew back. Even then Valjean could barely form words at the strange stimulation inside him. The rod had warmed to his body, the cool burn of it no longer present—but Valjean could still feel it, the massiveness of it, the heft that filled him more intimately than anything he had ever known. Even without any other stimulation, it sent constant heat sizzling along his nerves, a deep pressure not unlike that of Javert buried deep inside him, causing his balls to ache helplessly for release.

Then Javert touched him. He wrapped his hand around Valjean’s cock, squeezing gently—and the familiar sensation that was usually so pleasurable made Valjean cry out again at the intensity of it. He could feel the steel rod, could feel it inside him, the walls of his urethra squeezed against it.

And then Javert began to stroke him.

The sensation was overwhelming. There was all the pleasure of Javert’s touch—but now, in addition, there was the stretch of the steel within Valjean. With every motion of Javert’s hand, the rod inside him shifted, moving up and down inside his cock. The steel’s presence was relentless, stretching and massaging him from within until Valjean was straining against the rope, nearly sobbing with the need for release.

“Still not enough?” Javert asked and let go of him.

The tip of Valjean’s cock was slick with fluid. When Javert pressed at the base of his cock, the rod moved upward again, the tip of it appearing from the hole, glistening. Javert grabbed hold of it and slowly pulled it out, and Valjean felt himself shake all over, balls contracting, close, so close—

Javert grabbed the base of Valjean’s cock in warning, tightening hard around him to stave off release.

“No control,” he chided. “How greedy it is. Look at it; I think it wants more.”

Valjean could only moan, watching with wide eyes as Javert took up a different rod—the same length, but thicker.

Everything inside him tightened with disbelief and terror at the sight. All the same, his body was on fire with need, and he knew that if Javert made him wait even longer, he’d beg for it even so.

Fortunately, Javert was merciful and didn’t ask for Valjean’s opinion on his strange experiments.

“So greedy,” Javert said hoarsely as he swirled the tip of the rod through the liquid dripping from the small, aching hole. Another thick drop of fluid welled up at his words, and Javert laughed.

“Look how it’s begging for it. Even this won’t be enough to satiate it, I wager.”

He teased the hole with the rod, and Valjean moaned again, shivering all over as he felt the gentle pressure and then watched his cock open up for it.

This time, Valjean could feel the stretch. The steel was cold, and even with the copious fluid coating it Valjean could sense it slowly going inside, spreading him open little by little.

It didn’t go in deep. After it had penetrated perhaps to the width of two fingers, Javert pulled it back, then slid it inside again, slowly and rhythmically fucking the tight hole that stretched open wide for him while more fluid escaped and dripped down Valjean’s cock.

Valjean could barely keep his eyes open, and still he watched, fascinated and shocked, how the small hole no one had ever paid attention to was lovingly stretched open by Javert.

The sight was obscene, so that he couldn’t help but feel ashamed at his body’s reaction to such a thing. Javert was right—his cock looked hungry for it, stretching and swallowing the steel rod like a small, voracious mouth, red and swollen with desire.

And yet, despite the shameful sight, Javert looked pleased, a fingertip teasing the head of his cock, then two fingers tightening around it. The pressure squeezed the inside of his cock against the rigid steel until Valjean was trembling so hard, his balls aching so fiercely that he thought he was going to faint if Javert didn’t give him more.

“Oh God,” he moaned, “sir, please...”

“Please what?” Javert said, the words harsh with hunger.

Valjean sobbed, aching in a way he had never ached before. “All of it, please!”

Javert drew in a sharp breath, his fingers ceasing the relentless pressure to teasingly stroke the underside of the swollen crown once more. Javert pulled the rod up again, the sensation dragging a cry from Valjean—and then he released it, gravity and the greed of Valjean’s own body swallowing it inside, a penetration more intimate than anything Valjean had ever experienced before.

He could feel the stretch, his body being made to yield to hard steel, all the way from the tip of his cock to the base deep inside. Nothing and no one had ever been so deep inside him before, had ever touched him there.

Javert leaned over him, eyes wide and dark with arousal.

“Look at you,” he said again, almost too breathless to speak. “I can touch you wherever I want. You’re mine. This is mine.”

Valjean moaned in agreement, his cock aching and throbbing, stretched open all the way.

When Javert kissed him, a hungry, breathless kiss, he open for that too, sucking on Javert’s tongue as he shivered in his bonds, nerve endings on fire at the pressure inside him.

“You’re going to feel so empty when I take it out,” Javert murmured when he drew back.

Valjean moaned shakily as he looked down at himself. The rod was no longer visible. His cock had swallowed it completely. No one who saw him at this moment would know what was there inside him—and yet Valjean could feel it still, the terrifying, erotic sensation of his urethra stretched open, the pressure and weight of the steel rod inside him, a sizzling, burning sensation that made his balls contract with helpless need.

Javert leaned down again, one fingertip running up the length of Valjean’s cock. Then Javert swirled his tongue over him, lapping at the dripping crown, his tongue hot and velvet-soft, at the same time as his fingers curled around Valjean’s swollen shaft once more.

It didn’t take a lot. Two, three strokes, moving the rod inside him, squeezing over-sensitive flesh against the unyielding steel, and Valjean felt himself start to come helplessly, all control lost. His bound body shivered against the tight ropes while Javert closed his mouth around the tip of his cock, sucking the swollen crown until Valjean sobbed. His climax rushed through him in a strange, broken wave, his cock twitching helplessly in Javert’s grip, impaled—nothing coming out.

Valjean was still hard and sensitive when it was done—so sensitive that the brush of Javert’s tongue against the swollen glans was almost unbearable.

“Should we leave it inside for a while?” Javert moved back up to kiss Valjean again, lips sticky with the fluid of Valjean’s need. He combed his fingers through Valjean’s hair, looking pleased with himself. “I’m not sure you’ve learned your lesson yet.”

Valjean groaned. “I have, sir,” he rasped, still so far gone that it seemed nearly impossible to focus on forming words.

“You know I don’t like it when you’re too tight,” Javert said. “If I want to play with you, I will—think this hole can learn that lesson too? I believe it will learn to yield, like the rest of you has. Look at it.”

Javert nudged his cock with a finger, and Valjean watched it jerk in response, just as he felt the steel rod shift inside him, a thick droplet dripping from the tip once more.

Valjean moaned desperately at the stimulation, the fierce ache of his need almost unbearable despite his climax, and Javert laughed with smug satisfaction.

“Just as I thought,” he said. “I think we will be here for a while.”

Javert hadn’t told him what awaited him, which was always a bad sign. Or a good sign, depending on how one looked at it.

Given that the carriage had taken them to the country manor of Delisle, Valjean had been certain that it was going to be the good sort of bad—and found that he was right when Javert led him into an anteroom and told him to strip.

The windows had been filled with light, bright against the gloom of the evening sky. The manor itself was filled with the sounds of a gathering, the scent of food being prepared in the kitchen, and a hundred burning candles which gave every corridor a festive appearance.

Valjean had come to know this house well on several occasions, and he trusted Javert with his life. Still, it took effort to strip quietly and obediently when he could hear the low sounds of laughter and conversation, mingled with the clinking of glasses, from the room next door.

At Javert’s gesture, Valjean put his neatly folded clothes down onto a chair near the door. The air inside the house was warm; still Valjean shivered a little, goosebumps springing up.

He would be fine in a moment, he knew that. The first moment was still the hardest, baring the scars on his naked body to strangers who would look at him and judge him—or possibly judge Javert.

Javert gestured for him to come closer, and Valjean followed trustingly. Javert took hold of his chin and kissed him unhurriedly, lingering until Valjean relaxed, his apprehension falling away as he had known it would eventually.

“Close your eyes,” Javert then said.

When Valjean obeyed, a silky fabric was tied in place around his head, covering his eyes so that he couldn’t see.

“Did you think I forgot what day it is?” Javert murmured against his ear, breath warm. “This day, seven years ago, you fell to your knees in the pouring rain in front of my apartment.”

Was that true? Valjean blinked. He hadn’t paid attention the date—he had been too distracted by the carriage-ride and what might follow.

Javert ran his hand down his back and patted his backside. “I think you’ll like your surprise. Come.”

One hand pressed against his shoulder in reassurance, Javert led him into the room.

Valjean knew immediately where they were—the large drawing room where Delisle had hosted them several times. Blindfolded, he could not see how many guests were present, but from the voices all around them he thought there must be at least ten, if not more.

A celebration. In his honor? Surely not, he thought, despite Javert’s words.

Valjean was almost glad now that he couldn’t see. If he concentrated on Javert’s touch and his voice, he could pretend that they were all alone, that he had no purpose in this world than following Javert’s orders. It was easier than the worry of just who might be looking at him right now—what did they see, what did they think?

“Here,” Javert said. “Sit.”

Valjean sank to his knees obediently and found that someone had placed a large cushion on the floor for him. This was more comfort than he was used to—did Javert plan to keep him kneeling at his feet all evening?

It would not be the worst way to spend the evening, Valjean thought, warmth rising in him.

Javert reached out and tousled his hair. “Open your mouth.”

Valjean swallowed, suddenly aware once more that they weren’t alone. Still, hadn’t many of Delisle’s friends seen worse from him? If Javert wanted to demonstrate how well he had tamed Valjean, Valjean would let him show off and do his best to impress.

As bidden, Valjean opened his mouth wide. There was a rustle of fabric, and Valjean felt his face flush with heat, shame and eagerness warring within him when he realized what was to come.

He was breathing shallowly, hands tensing against his thighs as he forced himself to wait—and then something hot and hard touched his lips, and he moaned gratefully as he allowed it to slide deep into his mouth.

It took a moment until he realized that size and taste differed from Javert. He froze until Javert’s fingers threaded into his hair again.

“I told you, it’s a special day,” Javert said. “So I promised Delisle to bring the entertainment for this evening. Be good.”

This was all the instruction Valjean received before he could hear the sound of Javert walking away from him. Valjean had been left alone in the center of the room, blindfolded and on his knees—and with a stranger’s cock in his mouth.

Then the man in front of him pushed deeper into his mouth. Valjean choked before instinct won over and he swallowed around the cock, feeling it slide deep into his throat until his mouth was wrapped around the root, his nose buried in wiry hair that smelled of a different soap than Javert’s familiar Marseilles soap.

A hand gripped his hair, another stroking his cheek. Valjean moaned involuntarily as the man withdrew a little, and someone to his right laughed.

With sudden shock, Valjean realized that he was hard, his body thrumming with heat even as his chest ached with mortification at the picture he had to make. Had this been Javert’s plan? Valjean as the centerpiece for Delisle’s party?

Then the man began to use his mouth more demandingly and it became harder to think. Everything was different—size, shape, smell, the sounds he made. Even so, Valjean did as he had been told, helplessly wondering whether Javert’s eyes were on him as he sucked obediently until at last, a rush of bitter fluid filled his mouth.

Valjean swallowed automatically, licking his lips. His stomach twisted again as he thought of how he had to look, his own cock shamefully hard. Then something nudged at his lips once more—hot skin, salty and swollen, and another stranger’s cock slid into his mouth.

Valjean moaned shakily around it, Javert’s words still in his ears—be good. Hesitantly, he leaned forward to take it deeper, licking to learn its taste and shape.

There was an encouraging sound somewhere above him. Then a hand grabbed hold of his hair and he found his mouth used with little regard for what he might have wanted to offer. All he could do was try not to choke until at long last, the man spilled himself down his throat with a pleased groan.

There was a third within moments. Valjean wrapped bruised lips around the stranger, lips tingling and throat aching, saliva and come running from the corner of his mouth as he moaned around him.

The man seemed more patient than the last. Valjean found that he was allowed to go at his own pace. Imagining Javert’s watchful eyes on him, he licked and sucked with devotion, coaxing forth droplets of pleasure, until he could feel the stranger’s cock jerk on his tongue, close to release.

Then there was a touch at his hips. With his mouth still full, Valjean found himself pushed up until he was resting on his hands and knees, legs nudged apart. Something wet and warm splashed onto his buttocks. A moment later, two fingers followed the spill of oil down his crease and abruptly entered his hole.

Valjean choked around the cock in his mouth, but the man, who had been so understanding before, now grasped hold of his hair and held him in place, his cock throbbing thick and hot on Valjean’s tongue, filling his throat as another man behind him pushed deep into his body.

Valjean trembled, helpless and overwhelmed, penetrated from both ends. The man behind him was impatient, too, taking him with quick, hard thrusts that made Valjean’s body ache with need. Then there was another rush of semen in his mouth—so much, so fast, that it was impossible to swallow, try as Valjean might. It came dripping from his lips as the man withdrew and a fourth took his place.

Valjean’s lips felt bruised and sore, but he opened his mouth nevertheless. Helplessly trembling, he tried to surrender and relax his body to the onslaught, every thrust sending pleasure searing through him.

When the man finished inside him and pulled out, Valjean had anticipated another—but he was left empty for a while, shivering and aching for the stimulation that had brought him so close. Others gathered at his mouth and he tried to pleasure them with bruised lips, eyes tearing behind his blindfold as he lost count. Then, at last, he felt hands on his hips again and another cock lining up with his hole.

Whoever it was was well-endowed. Valjean groaned when he was stretched wide open. The pressure inside him made him arch his back, his cock back to aching hardness. Another man came after that, fucking him slowly—too slowly. Then another, Valjean’s thighs slick with come and his hole stretched and loose, insides aching sweetly from the penetration that always ended just when Valjean felt himself approaching release.

It felt like a dream. He had lost count of how many men had made use of him, given up trying to listen for familiar voices. The party around him was in full swing; there was the clinking of glasses and wine being poured, the sounds of laughter and conversation coming from every corner of the room, air warmed by the large fireplace and the many candles.

Trapped in the darkness behind his blindfold, Valjean trembled, reduced to sensory experience, his body used for pleasure again and again—his entire being reduced to two holes that could be made use of freely.

Once again a thick, hard phallus throbbed in his mouth and found release; once again someone else approached.

But this time, there was a gentle touch to Valjean’s cheek and the sound of soft laughter—a familiar sound.

“What a mess you are,” Raven said. “Want me to help you?”

Valjean could no longer form words. All that came out when he tried was a helpless groan, and Raven laughed again.

Someone moved behind him and squeezed his buttocks. Valjean spread his trembling thighs instinctively, another trail of warm come dripping down his thighs as his aching hole convulsed. Then he was used once more, the penetration making his nerves sing, tender, swollen insides nearly unable to bear the stretch—and even now it wasn’t enough, his painfully erect cock slapping against his stomach at every thrust, unable to cross the threshold of relief.

Raven stroked his head in commiseration. “Come,” he said. “Let us have our show.”

Valjean groaned and forced himself to push back despite the ache of his inflamed hole. The man was so deep inside him that every breath was a hot, red pulse of sensation. Valjean struggled for air as he squeezed around the thick shaft inside him, and the man made a sound of appreciation, his thrusts picking up in speed.

When the stranger came, heat coating Valjean’s abused insides anew, Raven reached out and wrapped his hand around Valjean. It took only two strokes until Valjean came with a sob, shaking to hold himself upright when his knees threatened to give out.

Panting, Valjean waited until the man inside him had pulled out, another rush of liquid spilling from his well-used hole. Then Valjean collapsed onto his cushion.

His body was still shivering, still aching with sensation. Someone was stroking his head—Raven, Valjean thought dimly, gratefully, his stretched hole throbbing relentlessly.

He could still hear the sounds of the party. Were Delisle’s guests ignoring him, now that Valjean was no longer of use? Or were their eyes on him even now, watching him, his body dripping with the release of so many strangers he’d given up counting?

“Get him cleaned up, Raven,” Javert said somewhere nearby.

Valjean shivered again, this time with relief, when Javert’s hand curved around his neck.

“You’ve been very good,” Javert said quietly when Raven rose.

“A good centerpiece?” Valjean barely recognized his own voice, the words a raspy croak.

“The finest.” Javert spoke the words gently, but Valjean could hear the possessive pride beneath— and the warm relief.

“The finest in all of France.”

This doesn't really fit into the Coin- or Pony-verse, but since it's almost Halloween I decided that this is no reason to deny them a tentacle AU. 🐙

Rain was coming down heavily, wood creaking beneath the onslaught as the ship swayed in the storm.

It was late, the convicts chained in the hulks. No moon shone that night. Only now and then could Valjean see the gleam of metal bars before the window when lightning rent the sky outside.

Then the door opened, followed by the familiar mocking shouts of the guards, a cudgel trailing threateningly against chain.

It took a moment until Valjean realized that it was his number the guard was calling.

Why today? Nothing had happened today. No one had looked at Valjean. He had done his work beneath a sky turning a sickly yellow, clouds building into fantastic towers above until it felt as if the pressure of them above was making it impossible to breathe in the dusty quarry below.

The storm hadn’t hit until they were marched back to the hulks in their chains, some of the oldest prisoners around Valjean whispering and casting frightened looks at the rapidly darkening sky.

Valjean had ignored them. He was no stranger to storms. And he did not believe in seafarers’s tales of monsters rising from the waters, long arms dragging massive ships into the depths.

Even if the ship should sink, the hulks were moored with chains in the shallow water right here in the harbor. There was no danger—unless, perhaps, lightning should hit and set the wood ablaze, and the guards forgot to free them.

Valjean smiled bitterly when he was unchained, a cudgel hitting his side to hurry him before he’d even had a chance to follow willingly.

Perhaps it would not be so bad, were lightning to hit. With any luck, the damned guards would die beside them.

Again lightning flashed outside, illuminating the barred windows for a fraction of a heartbeat, and Valjean felt himself freeze.

Something had moved in one of the windows. He had seen it. Something slender and slippery, a long limb twining around a bar from outside, sensual, terrifying...

Someone shouted in his ear to move, a cudgel hitting him repeatedly, the pain familiar, dull, already bruised skin bruising further.

Valjean remained where he was, ignoring the shouting guard as he gazed at the window, shocked and uncertain whether he’d seen true.

Then lightning flashed once more outside, another guard hurrying closer with a lantern in hand, and Valjean could see the window clearly.

Thunder rolled, the ship shifting beneath his feet. The window was empty, the bars bare. There was nothing there.

Another explosion of dull pain as the guard hit him again. Valjean blinked, as if freed from a spell, and stumbled forward, cursing himself.

Now he’d done it. He might not have done anything to attract attention earlier today, but with his luck, the guard would tell tales of his disobedience just now.

Valjean moved forward mechanically, closing his mind to what was to come. What did it matter when he couldn’t change it anyway? One day was the same as any other.

Then someone—old Jérôme, who had been a sailor once, or so he said, and who had been in the hulks for longer than Valjean was alive—laughed hoarsely. When Valjean turned his head, he saw that the old man was staring straight at him.

Thunder reverberated, the storm right above them now. Lightning filled the inside of the ship with blinding brightness for a split second.

“They are rising tonight,” Jérôme said and cackled, still staring straight at him. “Yes—they are rising from the deep tonight!”

“Shut up, you old fool,” one of the guards growled, cudgel falling.

Valjean tasted the cudgel himself again, flinching and blindly stumbling forward, Jérôme’s words already forgotten as new bruises formed on his skin.

It was almost a relief to find himself shoved into the guard room and chained there, if he didn’t know who’d await him.

Still, for a few blissful moments Valjean hung in his chains in silence, the emptiness of the room a gift for someone who had spent many too years chained in a salle full of the noise and smell of fifty other men.

Then there was the sound of steps, a shadow moving at the back of the room. A match was lit, a lamp lightened, then hung from a hook on the wall.

It was Javert.

For a moment, that realization came almost as relief—but who else could it have been?

It was always Javert, dragging him here, watching him, threatening him.

Valjean clenched his teeth and lowered his eyes to the ground, exhausted from the long day. The strange moment was already forgotten as he went limp in his chains, surrendering himself wearily to the mockery and threats that were to follow.

“Why do you always end up here, Jean Valjean?” Javert asked when he came closer.

Valjean studiously avoided his eyes. Slowly, Javert circled around him.

“There’ve been rumors that one of you is planning something,” Javert said. “Of course, we both know that if anyone is planning anything, it’s you.”

Valjean bit back a bitter laugh. Someone was always planning something. They both knew that.

“I’m warning you, Valjean.”

Javert had stopped in front of him, close—so close that Valjean could sense the heat of Javert’s body against his skin, could hear the sound of his breathing.

Valjean refused to raise his eyes. The storm was still raging outside, wind howling. He listened to it as the ship swayed in the water.

“It would be so much easier for you if you’d give in.”

Valjean stared at the damp wood beneath his feet.

“You don’t believe me?” Javert came half a step forward. The fabric of his shirt brushed against Valjean’s chest.

“Do you think I enjoy spending time in here with you, again and again?” Javert whispered furiously. “Do you think I have nothing better to do than to try and teach you a lesson?”

Javert was breathing heavily. Another surge of the storm. Wood creaked, the ship rolling. Valjean could smell dampness, rotting wood, human sweat and arousal, the salt of the sea choking him.

A crash of thunder, loud enough that the ship shook. Lightning flashed, searing white light blinding him for the span of a single heartbeat. Waves crashed against the side of the hulks.

The lamp went out.

Chained, half-naked body dripping sweat, Valjean found himself standing in utter darkness.

Javert was still before him. Valjean could sense him, hear the rapid sound of his breathing, the linen of his shirt soft against Valjean’s chest.

Then Javert’s mouth was on his, a furious, hungry kiss, tongue hot and wet in Valjean’s mouth as he trembled in shock.

The air was thick with the scent of stale water, rotting seaweed and mollusc brine. Deafening thunder rolled around them, the ship rising and falling in the water, held by chains just as Valjean himself.

Then something touched him.

Valjean still couldn’t see. He was helpless in the darkness, bound by the chains. Javert’s mouth was still on his, and he could feel something—something strangely alive. It was moving, pressing against him with curious insistence where he should have felt an entirely different pressure.

Slowly, something peeled his trousers open, slipped inside.

Valjean shuddered all over at the touch against his skin—smooth and slick, warm as fish blood, searching out his cock to wind around it.

Frozen with dread, Valjean remembered the strange vision at the window he’d seen.

Impossible...

There were other touches now, small, sleek tendrils finding his cock, engulfing him, his body throbbing with an arousal that was all terror.

Javert’s mouth was still on him, Javert’s hand in his hair, holding him motionless. Further touches came, other tendrils writhing against his thighs, sliding over sweat-slick skin, exploring between his buttocks until they found an opening and slid into him.

Valjean convulsed in Javert’s arms, his groan muffled by Javert’s mouth. The tendrils were slick, moving with a mind of their own, penetrating deeply.

He’d known the shameful violation of the guards’ searching fingers, but this invasion was of a different nature—a firm, slick stretch that opened him up, tendrils coiling around each other, squirming against his insides, a living, questing being that slithered deep into him until he was sobbing into Javert’s kiss, his cock throbbing in the wet embrace.

The stretch burned, the tendrils sliding deeper. His entire body shook as he felt himself helplessly opened up for the invasion, something inside him throbbing and aching until he could no longer say whether he was arching away from the pressure or into it. Slick, hungry tendrils caressed his cock, suckers clinging to his skin, pulling him closer, Javert’s mouth swallowing all of his helpless moans....

Again a flash of lightning, too bright to see, an afterimage of Javert’s face burned into his eyes. Javert’s taste filled his mouth, the thick stench of sea water in his nose. Then orgasm washed over Valjean, a powerful, painful release, the salt of his seed forced from him, mingling with the seawater slickness, his insides clenching convulsively around the writhing limbs inside him.

He fell. It felt like drowning; darkness closing over him, saltwater in his mouth and nose, his body burning, something dragging him to the bottom of an abyss.

Darkness. Then nothing.

Valjean ached when he woke. The storm had passed. The hulks were still, the sea as smooth as a mirror. The sky was a flat gray and so was the water.

Valjean groaned when he tried to move, the jingling of chains reminding him of where he was.

What had happened? His mind must have been playing tricks on him. He must have been beaten until he fell unconscious. Pain brought strange visions at times.

Valjean pushed himself up on his elbows and raised a knee. Then he froze.

His shirt had ridden up. And there, on the inside of his thigh, a strange bruise could be seen: a curving line of reddened circles, the shape of small suckers.

The sun was shining brightly, the air crisp. The trees Javert could see from the prefecture’s windows had turned to shades of gold and crimson, beckoning. When Javert rose abruptly, ignoring the looks of his men, to leave for what by all appearances was a lunchtime walk, he found the street strewn with chestnuts that gleamed reddish-brown in the sun, their spiky, green shells rolling everywhere as he walked.

Javert paused, picking up a gleaming chestnut, then another, putting them into his pocket before he continued his walk.

He did not go far. After crossing the street, he entered the building that housed the fire horses, curious why the barracks of the fire fighters had remained so silent today.

Inside the stable, everything was quiet but for the calming sound of horses chewing hay. Then there was a soft grumble of recognition, and a large, white head appeared above a door, ears pricked forward with interest.

Javert often carried a treat in his pockets; today, he merely stroked the horse’s nose in apology before he continued on his way.

Valjean wasn’t far. Javert found him at the back of the stable, seated on a bale of straw with an assortment of cleaned and oiled tack gleaming next to him.

Valjean rose when he saw Javert, a smile spreading over his face, and Javert found himself smiling in return. To have Valjean so close during the day had truly been a fortunate turn of events.

“Sir,” Valjean said warmly and came closer. “Did you want to walk by the river?”

Javert shook his head. He had intended to, when he’d looked outside and saw the sun gleaming on leaves—but now that he had Valjean in front of him, temptation incarnate in his shirtsleeves, cravat askew and straw in his hair, he suddenly had a different idea.

“It’s been so quiet over here all day,” he said. “Where is everyone?”

“A parade,” Valjean said. “And a medal for Lieutenant Delamare. I volunteered to stay behind and watch the horses.”

“Just you?” Javert asked, turning around to inspect the stable.

There was a pause, and when Valjean answered, something had changed in his voice.

“Just me, sir,” he said softly, no doubt aware of what was afoot.

Javert smiled and took half a step closer. He rested his palm against Valjean’s chest, feeling the heat of his body and the rapid beating of his heart through the fabric. Then he tugged at Valjean’s cravat, gray cotton unraveling easily.

“Come along,” he murmured and led Valjean to an empty stall, thickly strewn with golden straw.

Javert pushed Valjean against the wall, then kissed him, relishing Valjean’s smiling surrender to his whims.

“You will miss out on lunch, sir.” Valjean’s eyes were gleaming when Javert drew back.

Javert only smiled and leaned in once more, Valjean’s tongue hot and seductive against his own as he pulled Valjean’s shirt out of his trousers. He trailed his hand up Valjean’s stomach beneath the shirt, savoring the heat of his skin, the way hard muscles flexed at his touch.

This time, when he withdrew, Valjean was too breathless to speak.

“There are worse things than missing a lunch.” Javert slid his hand around to Valjean’s back beneath the shirt, tracing downward. “I’d rather go without food than without this.”

It didn’t take much to convince Valjean—not that Javert needed to convince him.

Another day, perhaps, Javert might have come inside and demanded, and Valjean would have surrendered himself, wide-eyed and shivering with nerves. Those days were enjoyable, too, but the warm autumn sun had made Javert mellow. He wanted to take his time and enjoy these rare moments where they were all alone, here in the heart of the city, surrounded by the sounds of horses and the scent of warm fur and hay.

Valjean looked carefully around, then unbuttoned his trousers. They dropped to his feet, leaving him covered only by his shirt. Javert took advantage of his state of undress by smoothing his hand over Valjean’s buttocks in appreciation, squeezing until Valjean moaned and willingly turned around, leaning against the wall and spreading his legs at Javert’s nudge.

“I want to be inside you,” Javert whispered against his nape. “You’ll have me even without oil, won’t you?”

Belatedly, he realized that he had interrupted Valjean in the process of cleaning tack—there would be grease around, back where Valjean had sat. Still, Valjean was eager enough, and Javert liked the increased friction. He’d go slowly, savor every moment, make it last.

“Yes, sir.” Valjean turned his head to look at him from eyes bright and feverish with arousal.

When Javert licked his fingers and then felt between his buttocks, Valjean moaned softly before he bit down on his lip, stifling the sound.

Valjean was hot inside, relaxing easily, and already panting for breath by the time Javert pulled his fingers out and opened the flap of his trousers.

“Quiet,” Javert warned gently, then pressed his cock against the small opening.

Valjean was tight. The saliva helped a little, but there was more friction than usual, even though Valjean stayed relaxed and open for him. He could feel Valjean’s insides clinging to his cock, sweet and hot, and rubbed his hand over Valjean’s hip in praise.

“Just like this,” he whispered into his ear, “you’re perfect.”

Valjean was breathing heavily by the time Javert began to thrust. Javert took his time, moving slowly, enjoying the unusual friction, the way it took effort for Valjean’s body to accept him, even though Valjean was without doubt enjoying it as much as Javert.

As hard Valjean he tried to stay quiet, he couldn’t quite manage it. Soft gasps and muffled moans kept spilling free, mingling with the sounds of the horses around them, making Javert smile.

If some of Valjean’s friends were to return early, what would they think to see him like this? Javert knew that Valjean was well-loved in the stables for his strength and his kindness with the animals—yet none of the people working by his side every day had ever heard the sounds he made when Javert was deep inside him.

Javert wrapped his hand around Valjean’s cock and pressed his lips to his throat, sliding all the way into Valjean again, then remaining there, motionless, as he began stroking him.

“Quiet,” he whispered again. “What if someone returns early? What will the lieutenant say to find you like this, bending against the wall for me?”

Valjean shivered around him, hips moving instinctively, pushing back and forth on his cock as Javert’s fingers tightened.

Javert had thought to draw this out, but he could already feel release approaching. He muffled his own moan against Valjean’s skin and started to move again—slow, short thrusts in time with the movement of his hand.

Valjean came moments before him, the rippling contractions of the tight body drawing Javert’s own release from him. Javert breathed in the scent of hay and Valjean’s sweat as he panted against Valjean’s skin, watching golden sunlight play on the wall as he spilled himself deep inside Valjean’s body. When he was finished, he remained motionless for a while, savoring the beauty of the moment before he reluctantly pulled out.

Valjean cleaned him off with a handkerchief, looking flushed and sweaty and debauched—a stable lad going for a roll in the hay while the stable master was otherwise distracted, Javert thought, and reached out with a little smile to pull a piece of straw from Valjean’s hair.

“Better clean that mess up,” he said and nodded towards the wall where Valjean’s come had spattered.

Valjean inclined his head. Instead of chagrined, he looked immensely happy, so that Javert had to suppress another smile.

“It’s early yet,” Javert said as he turned towards a window. “But I recall you saying that you had promised to watch the horses.”

Valjean nodded again, for the first time a trace of disappointment on his face.

“Ah well. You have some cleaning up to do.” Javert straightened his clothes. “And I have lunch waiting for me.”

It would not be bad at all to spend his lunch hour with bread still warm from the baker’s oven, cheese and a few apples or pears, shared with Valjean on a bale of straw.

Javert did not tell Valjean that—but he did draw him into another kiss, kissing him until Valjean was flushed and breathless, before he took his leave, slipping the chestnuts into Valjean’s pocket.

“For Cosette,” he said, and Valjean laughed.

“She’s not a child anymore, sir,” Valjean called after him, and Javert smiled to himself as he strode out of the stables.

Bread, cheese and a bottle of wine. There was time enough left to enjoy Valjean’s company for a while before he’d have to return to the duty-room. He was the chief inspector, after all, and it would be winter soon enough. Some things had to be savored while the sun was still shining.

It was one of the last days of summer, the city stewing in the heat beneath a blazing sun.

Javert had returned home from a visit to his tailor and found the apartment empty. From an open window, he could hear the rhythmic thuds of wood being cut, an axe rising and falling as wood split.

He smiled as he leaned against the window sill, watching Valjean at work for the portress.

The sight was appealing. Not since Montreuil had he seen Valjean hard at work, and he regretted for a moment that propriety did not allow Valjean to work in his shirtsleeves. What a sight that would be.

There was a distant rumble of thunder. When Javert looked up, he saw that dark clouds had started to move in. The heat was still oppressive, but a wind had come up.

A summer storm, quickly blown in, and passing just as quickly, he thought—much needed water for the plants, although Valjean would have to hurry to keep the wood dry.

Javert went to pour himself a simple, white De Chably wine, then returned to lean against the window, watching Valjean as he sipped from his glass.

Valjean must have heard the thunder, but he continued to work in the same rhythm as before, each rise and fall of the axe precise, splitting the logs in the middle until he had firewood of a perfect size for their portress’s oven.

He was nearly done. There was a sizable pile of wood already neatly stacked up beneath the nearby roof. Only a few logs of wood were left when it began to rain.

At first, the drops fell so lightly that Valjean barely seemed to feel then. Then, with a sudden clap of thunder, the clouds let loose, rain pouring down so hard that Valjean’s outline became blurred by a curtain of water.

Within a heartbeat, Valjean was soaked to the bone, the last few logs of wood drenched. Instead of cursing, Valjean looked up at the sky and wiped the dripping hair out of his eyes, laughing as he shook his head so that drops flew everywhere. He sat down the axe, his gaze going past their window where Javert was still watching, and a smile broke out on his face as he saw Javert.

He did not hurry as he stowed the wet wood beneath the roof where it could dry, then returned the axe to the shed where the porter kept his tools.

At last, with the water still pouring from the sky as if a dam had broken, he crossed the yard. Javert waited, breathing in the scents of wet soil and crushed grass and the city’s dust washed from the roofs.

When Valjean entered their apartment a minute later, the rain had ceased as suddenly as it had started.

Below, cobblestones were still gleaming wet and dark, but already the clouds were moving on. The sun had come out once more, blazing down onto wet roofs. Within the hour, the yard would be dry and baking in the heat as if nothing had happened.

Valjean, Javert thought wryly when he turned towards him, would need longer to dry.

He had hung his jacket by the door, facing Javert in his shirtsleeves. His shirt was soaked through, clinging to his body. Water was dripping from his hair, running down his face, and Valjean was still smiling.

Javert drained his glass and put it down, then moved towards Valjean.

“You’re wet,” he said, watching the way the fabric stuck to Valjean’s skin shifted.

Valjean’s smile widened. “You saw it rain.”

He’d seen more than that, Javert thought, eyes fastened to Valjean’s chest.

Javert reached out and pressed his palm against the wet fabric, sensing the heat of Valjean’s skin and the rapid beating of his heart even through the cotton. He moistened his lips.

“Take it off. You should hang it up to dry.”

Valjean stripped out of his trousers first, hanging them over a chair by the window. His eyes still on Javert, he then gripped the hem of his shirt and pulled it up slowly, revealing hard, flexing muscle underneath and gleaming rivulets of sweat and rainwater.

Javert swallowed, unable to look away. He did not want to return to Montreuil, not for anything in the world—but this was a sight he had missed: Valjean’s powerful body put to hard, strenuous work, the hypnotizing sight of straining muscles and gleaming sweat.

Valjean dropped the wet shirt to the floor instead of hanging it up to dry, eyes bright and amused as he looked at Javert, but Javert was enjoying the sight too much to let himself be provoked.

Valjean was soft, his cock dormant beneath his legs for now, although Javert knew how little it would take to rouse him.

Instead, Javert remained where he was, content to look his fill. It was a hypnotizing sight—one he had never tired of, and he doubted he ever would.

Behind Valjean, bright sunlight was falling in through the window once more. Heat emanated from the stone walls of the building, the quick shower already all but forgotten. And yet Valjean himself was still dripping with water and sweat, the firm, broad planes of his chest rising and falling as he breathed. Small rivulets were dripping from his hair and running downward, creating a glistening path past the hard muscles of his stomach, down his thighs, droplets gleaming like diamonds in his pubic hair.

Javert stepped closer.

Valjean’s eyes were expectant, and when Javert grabbed hold of his chin, Valjean’s lips parted, waiting to be kissed.

Javert leaned in—then turned his head at the last moment, Valjean exhaling a huff of amusement as Javert’s mouth found his throat instead.

Valjean’s skin was hot from the sun. It tasted of rainwater and sweat, the scents of summer and exertion—a clean, simple smell, far from the saltwater stench of the Mediterranean.

Javert followed a rivulet with his tongue. He licked down over Valjean’s breast, palm sliding over the firm muscle in appreciation as he drank the salt of his sweat from Valjean’s skin.

Valjean’s nipples had hardened to tight little pebbles; Javert rubbed his fingers over them as he lapped at Valjean’s skin, mouth trailing back upwards until his tongue found the hollow of Valjean’s throat, the sweat gleaming on his collarbones.

“I should wash, sir,” Valjean said gently.

His chest was rising and falling against Javert’s palms, the rapid thudding of his heart reverberating against Javert’s hands.

Javert swallowed, raising his head as his hand trailed downward, past skin slick with perspiration to where Valjean’s cock had begun to harden.

“Come to bed,” he said instead, and Valjean followed, amused and indulgent, dripping rain water all over their bedroom floor.

“A good horse should have a brand,” Javert had said when he’d pressed Valjean against the door of one of the fire horses’ stall with his body, “to make certain it doesn’t get stolen.”

After that’d he’d marked Valjean’s backside with red stripes, which, as always, faded away after a few days.

That was how the idea had first taken hold of Valjean, and why he now found himself stretched out over Javert’s desk, a fire crackling in the stove, his body naked as Javert thoughtfully traced his skin with a fingertip.

“You are certain?” Javert asked, unnecessarily, for the second time since they had entered the study.

It was a huge step to take—something Valjean would never have thought possible years ago, when his body hadn’t been his own and his skin had been marked by the whip again and again. And yet, perhaps that was part of it. So many marks on his skin, carved into his flesh by uncaring hands, symbol of a state that had seen less worth in him than in a dog.

It would be Valjean’s own choice to wear a mark left by Javert on his skin. There was already a brand Valjean saw every day, after all—the brand left by the coin he’d grabbed from the fire, the forty sou he had stolen from a boy.

That shame and guilt would mark him until the end of his life. A brand left by Javert, on the other hand, would burn the bond between them into Valjean’s skin—a mark not even time would erase.

He already knew that he would be Javert’s forever. He had come to him of his own free will, surrendered himself completely, and in turn, had found a different sort of freedom—freedom from the guilt and the shame that had tormented him for so long.

“I’m certain.” Valjean smiled at Javert. He held out his hand, uncurling his fingers to show his palm and the round brand at the heart. “I can take it.”

Javert exhaled. “You can take anything,” he said gruffly.

For perhaps the first time, he looked unsettled as he looked down at the patch of skin they’d settled on.

Valjean would have been happy to surrender that decision to Javert as well—to not know where the brand would land, where he would be marked as Javert’s, until the moment the metal seared his flesh. Yet Javert hadn’t allowed that choice.

Together, they’d chosen the area near his groin, low on his stomach, just above where the pubic hair started to grow—a private patch of skin, bared only to Javert during the day, and covered by shirt and trousers when with company.

Any other situation that required him to undress would also involve the baring of his scars and would make little difference. And how sweet it would be to know that mark on his skin during every hour spent away from Javert.

“I’m ready,” Valjean said. “I will try to be quiet.”

Javert gave him a long, searching look, then nodded once.

Valjean’s stomach tightened. The time for questions was past, the decision made. Javert, once set on a path, never deviated from it.

It was going to happen.

Javert held out a glass of brandy to him, but Valjean shook his head. It would not help much with the pain, and although it might settle his nerves, he’d made his choice.

He had been through worse, and he wanted to remember the moment as clearly as possible. The pain would not last long—but the brand would last forever. He wanted the memory of these moments, the intimacy of the small room. He wanted to remember everything: the wood of the desk against his bare back, the seriousness in Javert’s eyes, the smoky scent of burning wood, the weightlessness of abandoning himself to Javert once more, just as he had that evening in the rain, so long ago.

Earlier, Javert had washed him where the brand would go. Now, Javert went towards the stove, where a pair of metal tongs waited, an iron letter heating in the fire.

Valjean had left the choice of brand to Javert, and he hadn’t been disappointed. Simple and elegant, the curves of the letter J had been wrought from iron by a blacksmith. Valjean imagined tracing it with a fingertip on his skin, the way he still traced the brand of the coin, and he smiled.

There were no more words. Javert did not make him wait.

He grabbed the glowing iron with the metal tongs and returned to Valjean’s side, his eyes dark and intense, mouth tense.

Valjean forced himself to lie still. He clenched his hands around the sides of the table and looked up, watching Javert’s face.

Then Javert pressed the glowing iron to his stomach.

For a heartbeat, nothing—just exultation. Then pain washed over Valjean, the fierce burn he had experienced once before that drove tears to his eyes. Helplessly, he sobbed through clenched teeth, his body trembling, but he held still for it, bearing it—and then Javert pulled the glowing letter away and dropped it into a waiting bucket of cold water.

Another sob Valjean could not hold back, this time of relief. Then Javert was by his side again, kissing him, fingers holding his tear-wet face as Javert pulled him close.

Weakly, Valjean held on. His entire body was shaking as the shock of what had happened caught up with him.

“I want to see,” he said roughly when Javert drew back. “Let me—”

Javert helped him up, and Valjean groaned when the movement sent a new wave of pain through his body. The brand did not look as terrible as he had thought when the pain had surged through him together with the stench of burning flesh in his nose.

The skin had reddened. Like the brand at the center of his palm, it would ache for a few days before it would heal, red turning to white as the months passed, just as the scarred tissue of his back had.

And yet, unlike the thought of the knotted scars that crisscrossed back and shoulders, the simple, elegant letter curving beneath his hipbone sent a wave of euphoria through him, so strong that he began to laugh in relief, even while tears were still falling from his eyes.

“It’s good,” Valjean said before Javert could ask him if he’d gone mad. He smiled through the tears, ignoring the throbbing agony, winding his arms around Javert’s neck again to pull their heads together.

“Can’t get rid of me now, sir,” he whispered against Javert’s lips, smiling, shaking, as weak-kneed as on those days when Javert would keep him on the brink of orgasm for hours. “That’s your brand right there. Everyone will know I’m yours.”

“Guess that means I’ll have to keep you,” Javert murmured in return, and his thumb gently brushed at the tears that kept falling before he kissed Valjean again.

All week, Javert had returned home late in the evening in the pouring rain, barely acknowledging Valjean when he’d hastened to the door to take Javert’s dripping coat.

Javert would eat the dinner their portress prepared, only to spend an hour at his desk in his study, doing further work with a glass of wine. A hand would curl idly into Valjean’s hair now and then—and yet Valjean would be tiredly pushed aside whenever he dared to questioningly nuzzle at Javert’s thigh.

Valjean knew Javert was overworked and tired, and he knew how to be patient, caring for Javert with loving dedication so that Javert could make the most of what little time he had away from the prefecture.

Still, the various reports and accounts demanded by the prefect had been finished, Javert’s workload lightened, and today at last Javert would not have to go to the prefecture. 

Valjean had looked forward to this day with the greatest patience, knowing that soon enough, Javert would have the leisure to spend time with him once more. And yet, now that the day had arrived, Javert had risen from bed with a distracted look, had barely acknowledged Valjean when he’d washed Javert tenderly, hands lingering on the smooth, firm thighs and straight back, and had not even gestured for Valjean to kneel by his side while he ate his breakfast, as he used to when he still had time to enjoy his mornings.

Javert might have other plans for the day, Valjean told himself. Knowing Javert, he would have already come up with an idea—taking Valjean to the stables, perhaps, to ravish him in the hayloft, or a ride through the Bois de Boulogne and an evening spent naked, bound by rope, utterly at Javert’s mercy as Javert made up for the missed time.

Javert had never been anything but thorough. There was no doubt that as long as Valjean remained patient, he would be rewarded for it.

Valjean hesitated. When there was no acknowledgment from Javert, no finger curling towards him or pointing towards the floor by Javert’s side, he slid into his own chair. He made himself eat, casting a glance at Javert now and then in the hope that Javert would give him a hint towards what he was planning, but Javert delighted in tormenting him and pretended to be more interested in perusing the paper, taking a sip from his coffee every now and then.

The game was familiar, Valjean thought as his excitement rose. To be ignored—for hours, perhaps, bound and aroused and at Javert’s mercy, displayed in some shameful position while Javert pretended to be hard at work at his desk…

He would not mind at all if that was what Javert had in mind for the afternoon.

After a few minutes, Javert folded the paper decisively and stood. He did not look at Valjean as he frowned at the window where rain was falling once more.

“I should get back to the prefecture,” he muttered. “Just to make sure…”

“Sir,” Valjean said, shock and hurt sharpening the word.

Javert ignored him, as if he hadn’t even heard him.

“Fetch my coat,” he said without looking Valjean as he walked towards the door.

“Fetch it yourself,” Valjean snapped, hurt warring with anger inside him.

Hadn’t he been patient enough? All week, not a single word of complaint—and all it had resulted in was for Javert to forget his very existence, as if Valjean was of no more importance than one of his damned letters.

Javert stopped. Then, slowly, he turned. His brows were drawn together, eyes hard.

“What was that?” he asked coldly.

Valjean’s stomach twisted. Still, the fury that had been roused by Javert’s unfairness would not so easily die down.

“You heard me,” he said. “If you want to go back to the prefecture, you can fetch your own damn coat.”

Javert looked at him, and Valjean glowered back, jaws clenched, eyes burning. It was unfair—he’d done all he could to make Javert’s week as easy as possible, without a single word of complaint. But to be treated as if he didn’t exist now, when Javert had time...

Javert came closer with quick, long strides, his hand clenching in Valjean’s shirt. Momentum carried him forward; Valjean found himself pressed against the wall a moment later, Javert’s eyes staring angrily into his own.

“Have a care,” Javert said quietly. “I don’t have time for your nonsense.”

Valjean choked back the sob in his throat to glare at Javert instead. “I don’t have time for your nonsense either. I thought you wanted to leave?”

Javert stared at him for a long moment without speaking, then released him and turned away.

Terror flared in Valjean—what would he do if Javert simply left now?

All the same, he’d done nothing wrong. He’d done all he could all week. If Javert was unhappy with his behavior now, he’d simply have to make the time to change it.

“Come here,” Javert snapped after a moment.

Valjean gave him a sullen look, taking his time as he followed the order.

As soon as he was close enough, Javert grabbed hold of his shirt once more and used it to push Valjean down over the table. A moment later, Valjean’s trousers were opened and pushed down. The familiar sound of Javert’s belt being drawn free made him shiver, nervous excitement mingling with his resentment.

Javert didn’t hold back. Although he stopped after three strokes, Valjean was gasping by then, his backside on fire, resentment melting into tears.

Javert pulled him back up, face still grim, then pointed at the floor at his feet.

Valjean hesitated again before he dropped to his knees, and he could see Javert had noticed. There was displeasure in Javert’s eyes as turned away once more.

This time, Valjean was abandoned for no more than a minute. When Javert returned, he did not give Valjean a chance to speak again. Instead, Javert used rope to bind Valjean’s wrists, tying them in turn to his ankles. Next, he placed his belt down in front of Valjean so that Valjean could look at it—no doubt a promise of what was to come, Valjean thought, his heart beating faster.

At last, Javert retrieved a small jar, and Valjean’s chest tightened painfully with recognition. That particular torment had not come out for a while. Valjean shook his head when Javert approached with it, even though he knew his protest would do nothing to deter Javert.

Javert knelt in front of him, smile sharp.

“Open your mouth.”

Valjean stared at him, teeth clenched together, and shook his head.

Javert merely waited, watching him, and finally, with a small sob of despair, Valjean obeyed and opened his mouth.

Javert stuck his finger into the jar and swirled it around. When he pulled it out, it was coated with the oily, red paste made of dried, hot peppers from Cayenne. He held his finger out to Valjean. When Valjean hesitated, Javert smiled again.

“It’s your choice,” he said. “It goes into your ass otherwise.”

Valjean shuddered all over at that declaration. Hastily, he leaned forward to suck Javert’s finger deep into his mouth, wrapping his tongue around it to clean it.

For a heartbeat, he felt nothing but a pleasant warmth. Then the familiar burn followed, his mouth on fire as tears began to run from his eyes.

Javert rested his hand on his head for a moment, stroking his hair.

“You can think about your behavior today,” Javert said. “And about how you want to address me in the future.”

Valjean sobbed miserably and inclined his head, the burning pain making it impossible to speak as tears kept running down his face. Every time he shifted, he could feel the tight rope around his wrists and ankles. He couldn’t wipe his mouth—or even brush the tears from his face.

“I’ll be back in a while,” Javert said and stood. “You can use the time to think. And when I’m back...”

When he returned, the belt, Valjean thought through his tears, tugging at the rope a little just to reassure himself that he was indeed hopelessly bound.

Javert laughed softly. “When I’m back, we’ll see about improving your manners.”

It was a promise as much as a threat, Valjean knew, and he was grateful for it, even as his mouth burned like fire and his backside ached.

“It’s tradition,” Delisle said and laughed. “One evening of switching roles every carnival. Those parties are always great fun.”

“For one night only, the slave becomes the master.” Raven grinned at Delisle. “My favorite night of the year.”

“Really?” Valjean couldn’t help but ask, and Raven considered for a moment.

“Perhaps not. I wouldn’t change what we have. Still, it’s great fun. I get to order him around—and he knows he can’t be too cruel to me this week, because I shall remember and take my revenge.”

“Ah, but then the day after carnival, I am in charge once more,” Delisle said.

Both of them were clearly looking forward to the event, whereas the very idea felt unsettling to Valjean.

If he were to snap his fingers and point to the floor as Javert did, how would Javert react? Not well, he knew that, and the mere thought was disconcerting. It was not a fantasy Valjean had ever indulged in; worse, it woke old fears, reminding him of the many years during which he’d been handled as if he were a dangerous animal, chained because men thought him to be violent, brutal, bent on revenge.

“I don’t think I’d dare to give you an order, sir,” he said with a small smile to lighten the mood.

Javert was frowning as well. “I can see how that might be enjoyable to you,” he said to Raven, but there was reluctance in his voice.

He disliked the thought—of course he did. Valjean knew how much Javert hated being disrespected. For Valjean to do so, even if it were a game...

“You’re welcome if you want to attend,” Delisle said gently, “but you don’t have to, of course. There are many who won’t come.”

“You won’t ever find Red and his master at one of those parties,” Raven said with a laugh.

Javert looked at Valjean, clearly made uncomfortable by the idea, but just as reluctant to deny an invitation from Delisle and Raven, two men vastly superior to any position Javert could hope to reach in life.

“Perhaps another year,” Valjean said, and Delisle took the refusal gracefully, as he’d known he would. They must have suspected—they had known Javert long enough, after all.

***

“Are you certain?” Valjean asked.

Javert didn’t answer. Instead, he gave Valjean a pointed look, his hands gripping the wrought iron headboard of their bed, and Valjean took a deep breath before he leaned forward and tied Javert’s wrists.

“Better make the most of it,” Javert said, mouth hard. “Tomorrow I’ll be in charge again.”

Despite his bravado, Valjean could see Javert’s uncertainty. He knew that it wasn’t because Javert feared that there was old violence buried in Valjean. They knew each other too well for that. Still, Javert had never surrendered so much control before. For a man like him, that had to be frightening. Did he fear that Valjean might ignore his boundaries?

The first thing Valjean did was to lean in and kiss Javert, savoring the sensation of soft lips and rough beard. When he drew back, Javert seemed somewhat mollified, exhaling once, a reluctant smile on his lips.

“I remember now,” Javert said. “You quite liked having me at your mercy when I was wounded. What an utter tyrant you were!”

Valjean laughed in answer, remembering very well who had been a tyrant back then.

“That’s right,” he said nevertheless, smiling lovingly at Javert. “And I’ve been plotting ever since to get you in that position once more.”

To demonstrate what he meant, Valjean bent his head and pressed a kiss to the hollow of Javert’s throat. Slowly, leisurely, he ran his fingers over Javert’s chest, delighting in the firm muscles and smooth skin. Javert made a soft sound when Valjean found his nipples, and he stroked them lightly for long minutes, teasing with his fingertips until they were hard and sensitive while he kissed his way all over Javert’s chest, leaving not an inch of skin untasted.

Were Javert free, he would have grabbed Valjean’s hair and pushed him down long minutes ago. Now, tied as Javert was, he could only lie there and suffer—and suffer he did, Valjean thought in amusement when he finally sucked a small nipple into his mouth, rewarded by a moan.

Such torment for Javert!

By the time Valjean released the swollen nub, Javert’s skin was gleaming with perspiration, his breathing labored. Ever so slowly, Valjean licked a path across the plane of his chest, then teased the other nipple with his tongue. Against his thigh, Valjean could feel Javert’s cock jerk impatiently, hard and eager after all the teasing—but the teasing wouldn’t end so soon, he thought with another smile, pushing himself up on his hands to look down at Javert spread out beneath him.

The sight was rare enough that he wanted to take full advantage of it today.

Instead of kissing a path down his stomach, as Javert must have hoped, Valjean began at Javert’s feet, kissing each toe, the sole, the elegant arch of his foot before tracing his ankle with his tongue. Very slowly, Valjean began to kiss his way upward, licking the salt of his sweat from the back of his knee, then moving upward at an even slower pace, Javert’s thighs hard with tension. Here, the scent of Javert’s arousal was overpowering, the heat of his cock brushing Valjean’s cheek—and with a smile Valjean straightened and moved down to Javert’s other foot, starting the game again.

This time, when Valjean finally reached Javert’s thighs once more, he nuzzled around to Javert’s backside, mouthing at the firm buttocks. He licked into the crease, found Javert’s hole, licked until Javert moaned and the small opening convulsed, then kept licking a path towards Javert’s balls. They were heavy and tight when Valjean sucked them into his mouth, gently teasing them with his tongue until Javert groaned and shuddered, his neglected cock jerking helplessly in the air.

Then, at long last, he sucked Javert’s cock into his mouth, taking him right down to the root while Javert arched beneath him.

After all the teasing, it didn’t take long until Javert spilled himself hot down his throat with a cry. Valjean swallowed it all, pleased with himself, then drew back, lovingly licking Javert clean before he finally raised his head and looked down at him.

“There.” He couldn’t stop smiling. “Was it so bad to be mine for the night?”

Javert looked beautiful—utterly undone, eyes half-closed and body damp with sweat, hands still where Valjean had bound them to the bed. It had been a great show of trust from Javert, and Valjean felt warmth rush through him.

“What about you?” Javert asked after a moment, voice still rough.

Valjean considered. It didn’t truly matter to him—the pleasure he’d wanted was what he’d already had, to have Javert spread out before him so that he could explore and kiss and taste every inch of his body for as long as he wanted.

He glanced down Javert’s body again, eying the limp, glistening cock, the hard thighs wet with sweat, thinking of the small hole he’d licked. Did Javert fear he might want to take advantage, when Valjean knew that wasn’t something Javert would want to give?

“Come on,” Javert said, speaking a little sharply—his thoughts, perhaps, going where Valjean’s had. “I’m at your mercy. Out with it.”

Valjean swallowed, eyes returning to Javert’s thighs.

“Would you let me come between your thighs, sir?” he asked softly, using the title to show that, carnival or no, he knew who he was, and he wanted it no other way.

Javert surprised him with a soft laugh. “Is that it?” he asked, then added, “Yes.”

Despite Javert’s determination, Valjean was hesitant as he moved to rest behind Javert. Javert’s back was warm against his chest, wet with sweat. Valjean buried his face against Javert’s nape and breathed in the scent of him, shivering at the sensation of his cock sliding against Javert’s backside.

Javert spread his legs a little to make it easier for him, sweat making his thighs slippery. When Valjean positioned himself, his cock sliding between Javert’s thighs, Javert tightened his legs and Valjean trembled, moaning helplessly against Javert’s neck.

He thrust slowly, wanting to make it last. He wrapped his arms tightly around Javert, pressing himself close, surrounded by Javert’s scent and his heat. The warm slickness of his thighs was maddening as Valjean pushed into their tight grasp again and again, hard muscles flexing against him.

When he finally came, it was with his mouth pressed to Javert’s shoulder, holding him as tightly as he could. Pleasure flooding through him and he clung on, as close as possible while he trembled through his release.

Javert hadn’t made a sound of displeasure. Even so, as soon as he had regained his breath, Valjean hastened to free him.

“How was that?” he asked, looking down at Javert, worried that he might have changed his mind after all.

He’d loved it—the closeness, the smooth firmness of Javert’s thighs, the chance to truly cherish the sensation of Javert in his arms, to be loved as Valjean’s heart desired—but had it been a step too far?

Javert rubbed his wrists, looking thoughtful, then wrinkled his nose. “You can clean up the mess you left yourself,” he said, and Valjean felt a wash of relief.

“But first, come here.”

Javert’s arm wrapped around him and pulled him close, and Valjean gratefully rested his head on his shoulder.

“Nothing has changed,” Javert said quietly, and Valjean smiled against his skin.

He wouldn’t want it to, carnival or no. This—Javert’s skin against his own—was the only thing he’d ever need in his life.

“Keep them there,” Javert said sternly as he pushed Valjean’s wrists against the mattress.

Valjean obeyed, his hands remaining where Javert had placed them when Javert leaned back to survey his work in satisfaction.

Valjean was naked, stretched out beneath him. It was a beautiful sight—Valjean’s powerful body completely exposed, to be tormented as Javert liked, and he did not even need to tie Valjean for it.

All it took was a single command.

Javert lingered on the sight for a moment, savoring the sensation of Valjean beneath him, his to play with. And he did intend to play with him.

Valjean was already hard. Javert could feel Valjean’s swollen cock against his buttocks, but ignored him. Instead, he leaned down to kiss him, tongue sliding deep into Valjean’s mouth until Valjean moaned and trembled. Javert smiled against his lips when he noted that Valjean’s hands remained where he had placed them.

In reward, he bit at Valjean’s bottom lip while his hands ran down Valjean’s chest, fingers digging into the firm muscles. When he found Valjean’s nipples, he teased them lightly until they tightened to small, hard pebbles; then he finally moved back a little and let his mouth follow where his hands had gone.

Valjean moaned again when Javert closed his lips around a nipple. He traced it with the tip of his tongue, circling around until Valjean tried to arch against him. At that, Javert bit down, teeth grazing sensitive skin, and Valjean shuddered and groaned, holding still for him.

Javert sucked on him again, his finger tormenting Valjean’s other nipple. Then he switched sides, licking and sucking until Valjean’s nipples were swollen and sensitive, and Valjean trembled at the lightest touch.

Finally, Javert took out the toys he had borrowed from the portress’s clotheslines today—two wooden clothes pegs of just the right size.

He let the first one snap closed around a nipple, and Valjean cried out softly, his upper body arching off the bed as he writhed beneath Javert.

His hands hadn’t left the position Javert had placed them in, but even so, Javert sternly pushed him back down.

“A—a word of warning next time, sir,” Valjean gasped, arching his neck to try and see what Javert was doing.

Javert laughed. “Who are you to make demands of me?”

This time, Valjean drew in a breath, freezing as he saw the second peg approach. His fingers dug into the sheets as he tried to prepare himself. Even so, as the peg closed none too gently around the other nipple, he threw his head back and gasped, eyes squeezed shut and wetness brimming on his lashes.

It was a picture of the most exquisite beauty and torment, and Javert had to lean down and kiss him hungrily, drinking in all of Valjean’s suffering.

By the time he drew back, tears had left wet tracks on Valjean’s face, his nipples an aching red where the clothes pegs pinched them harshly.

Javert touched one peg and was rewarded by a soft sob, Valjean writhing beneath him. The muscles of his chest were rising and falling rapidly, gleaming with a layer of perspiration.

Javert drew his hands over them again, digging his fingers into the firm muscle.

“You’re so beautiful like this. Does it hurt?”

“It’s... bearable, sir.” Valjean panted for breath, then sobbed again when Javert nudged a pin.

“Be grateful I didn’t put them on your balls,” Javert said and laughed at the sound Valjean made. “You’d bear that too, if I’d want you to.”

“Oh God, sir,” Valjean moaned, squirming again, fingers digging so hard into the sheets that his knuckles were white. He arched his back, chest pushed forward as if begging for Javert’s touch, nipples looking painfully red and swollen.

Javert had been hard ever since he’d made Valjean strip. Now, at last, he closed his fingers around his cock, stroking himself once before he looked down at Valjean.

“Hold still,” he said sternly as he positioned himself, his cock sliding across Valjean’s sweat-slick chest.

He dug his fingers into the firm muscles again, pushed them together, taking care not to accidentally jostle the pegs and knock them off.

Valjean groaned, shivering. His hands remained where Javert had placed them, even when Javert began to slide against his chest, rubbing himself against the formidable swell of muscle.

“Sir,” Valjean begged piteously, and Javert laughed without mercy, ignoring his plea.

He might let Valjean come later—if he was good. For now, Javert wanted to enjoy the tearful squirming.

Valjean kept making soft, helpless noises as Javert kept sliding over the damp skin. Back arching, Valjean panted as he strained towards him, pectorals hard and firm against Javert’s cock. Beneath his palm, Valjean’s heart was racing in a thunderous rhythm, and Javert’s eyes kept being drawn to the tears that glistened on his lashes, Valjean’s mouth tense with pain and arousal.

When Javert’s come splattered all over his chest, Valjean gasped, a few specks of it landing on his cheeks and lips. Even through the pleasure washing through him, Javert saw Valjean’s hands twitch but remain in place.

“You’re such a mess,” Javert murmured in satisfaction when he finally rolled off Valjean, running a finger through the puddle of come and trailing it over his heaving chest.

Valjean groaned and gave him another pleading look. This time, Javert’s lips quirked and he pulled off the pegs without any warning.

Valjean’s back arched off the bed as he sobbed, his hands at long last forgetting their place as they came up to press against his aching nipples. Javert laughed softly as he watched him.

“What’s that?” Javert arched a brow when Valjean collapsed back into the bed, still sobbing—and his cock still hard, leaking fluid against his stomach, Javert noted. “I believe I gave you an order.”

Valjean’s eyes widened. Hastily, his hands fell back into their original position, leaving his bruised nipples unprotected once more. Javert dipped a finger into the pool of come, painted a nipple with it and felt Valjean tremble helplessly as he groaned.

Then Javert took hold of the pegs once more. Valjean drew in a sudden breath, trembling, even as another string of sticky fluid dripped from his cock.

Javert’s smile widened, and he nudged Valjean’s legs apart to expose his balls. “Maybe next time, you’ll remember to do as you’re told...”

“It’s not too late to stop by Vannier’s for a bottle of wine, sir,” Rivette said cheerfully when they left the prefecture.

Javert considered the idea. Ever since his promotion to chief inspector, he’d spent less time with Rivette. Now that they weren’t lodging in the same house anymore, they no longer found themselves sitting in the dining room by the fire in the evening every now and then, sharing a glass of wine.

Javert hadn’t thought it would bother him. To have his own private rooms was still a thrill after his childhood and his years as a guard. He’d enjoyed the camaraderie in the hulks, but those friendships, if they could be called that, had been fleeting, and Javert had long since moved past such coarse company.

Compared to the guards, Rivette was a step up. He might have his faults, but Javert would admit that unlike most of his men, Rivette always tried to do his work well, although he didn’t always succeed. Perhaps Javert would be less impatient with him if he had more men like him. But as it was, Rivette had to make up for the failings of all the men under Javert’s command, and couldn’t quite do so.

“I wouldn’t mind some wine,” Javert said. “And something warm to eat.”

“Your new portress not up to your standards, sir?” Rivette asked, smiling. “Madame will be pleased to hear that.”

Javert shook his head. “She’s a good cook,” he said curtly.

It was true; he hadn’t much enjoyed any of the meals he’d taken in his new apartment, but that wasn’t the fault of his portress’s cooking. Something about the empty rooms made his mind wander. He tried to combat it by bringing home work to keep himself busy, but every evening, there came a point when his mind lingered on the years spent in Montreuil-sur-Mer and the man he’d left behind there.

Jean Valjean. How did he fare tonight? Once, every evening, he’d made Valjean serve him his dinner...

Javert shook the thought off and followed Rivette. What Valjean was doing was none of his business. He’d done what he could to install a respect for the law in him. It was up to another now to keep the man in line.

The evening passed pleasantly. Rivette was in a cheerful mood, the wine good, and Azeline, the proprietor’s beautiful daughter, spent rather more time than necessary at their table. Was that Rivette’s doing, Javert wondered? He would not be so terrible a catch, and he might do rather well as an innkeeper’s successor. A better life, in any case, than that of a police spy.

Only when they’d paid and left did Javert realize that he hadn’t once considered that he might be the object of Azeline’s affections. The thought was startling, but not unpleasant. He was no longer a young guard from the hulks who’d had to pay for a few moments of frenzied intimacy. He was the chief inspector of the prefecture. Why shouldn’t a beautiful girl like Azeline look at him with interest?

The idea pleased him, although he hoped for her sake that it was Rivette she had set her eyes on. As enjoyable as the idea was, the truth was that the days of his youth were long past, and he had more important things on his mind. A chief inspector might go to the theater every now and then with a beautiful woman, certainly—but there was work waiting for him, a lot of work. He couldn’t let go of the idea of the prefecture transformed into a respectable place, an orderly duty-room with uniformed agents instead of men little better than thugs lounging around lazily.

By the time Javert made it home, he’d already forgotten about Azeline or those distant memories of the rare nights he’d let his comrades take him to a cheap inn. Already his mind was on what the morning might bring. As he washed himself, shivering at the cold water while the stove was only just beginning to warm the room, he thought of the small apartment in Montreuil and the evenings when Valjean had done these tasks for him.

That suited a man like him better than marrying a woman like Azeline would, he mused, then froze, taken aback by where his thoughts had taken him.

He missed having a servant, that was all it was. Well, he might afford one, he thought, contemplating his budget. And yet, there was no real need for it. In any case, he wasn’t truly interested in having a stranger intrude on his privacy. Half the pleasure of watching Valjean perform menial tasks for him was that it had been Valjean serving his soup and kindling his fire.

He didn’t need to pay a stranger when he could light his lamps himself.

That decision made, Javert extinguished the lamp and retired to bed. It was cold, although he’d added enough wood to the stove that it would keep burning all through the night. He burrowed beneath the blanket, then turned and blew out the candle on his nightstand. Then he closed his eyes.

Sleep didn’t come.

From far away, he heard the sounds of the city at night: the creak of a distant omnibus, a door closing somewhere, hooves on cobblestone.

Javert exhaled. The room had started to warm up, and suddenly he felt too warm. He turned, trying to find a more comfortable position, and continued to wait for sleep.

Eventually he gave up with a frustrated groan and opened his eyes, staring up at the ceiling in the darkness. There was just enough light falling in that he could make out the outlines of his furniture.

He felt strangely restless. Was it the wine? Perhaps he shouldn’t have accepted Rivette’s invitation. Javert was his superior now, no matter that they’d lodged in the same house for a while.

Back in Montreuil, Javert had never had trouble falling asleep. Maybe it was merely the weight of his responsibility here…

He turned once more, tired yet wide awake.

In Montreuil, he would have known what to do. In Montreuil, he would have nudged Valjean awake and pushed him down beneath the blanket, waiting quietly in the darkness as Valjean’s mouth sought out his cock and sucked him inside.

Or, more likely, on a night like this, he’d slick oil over himself and push Valjean down onto his hands and knees, using him the way he was meant to be used.

The thought brought up memories—Valjean’s wary eyes, the way his reluctance would always melt into surrender, the tight heat of his body.

With an irritated sigh, Javert reached down and wrapped his fingers around his cock. Maybe that was his problem. It was true; it had been awhile, and after the comforts he’d grown used to in Montreuil…

Eyes closed, he recalled the deep, pained lines around Valjean’s mouth and the furrowed brow, the way he’d flinched back instinctively every time Javert had wanted to touch his head—and how later on, he’d once fallen asleep leaning against Javert’s legs, head resting on his knee, Javert’s hand buried in his hair.

Javert exhaled quietly, his hand speeding up, remembering that mouth, that damned mouth opening for him, the sight of his release on Valjean’s tongue, the burning red of the welts his belt had left on Valjean’s buttocks again and again, tears gleaming in Valjean’s eyes…

With a muffled groan, he came, cursing himself a moment later for the mess he’d made.

No wonder he was irritable lately. By all rights, Valjean should have been here to clean up the mess he’d created.

Tired at last, Javert slipped back into bed after he’d washed his release from his stomach. The bed was warm and comfortable. He turned to his side, already half asleep, fingertips slowly tracing over the blanket where he could almost feel Valjean’s shoulder warm and firm against his fingers as he fell asleep with a smile.

“Look at you,” Javert said. “I’m not taking you to the opera this evening looking like that.”

The corner of Valjean’s mouth quirked, but he refrained from pointing out that it was Javert who’d made such a mess of him.

“Go wash yourself,” Javert ordered.

Valjean could feel his eyes lingering in appreciation as he stepped to the wash basin, shivering a little. Still naked, Valjean padded to the stove and added a log of wood, then returned, the water cold against his overheated skin.

By the time he was done, the air had begun to warm, and Javert had finally left the bed.

“Let me see,” Javert demanded, and with a smile Valjean dropped the washcloth and turned around.

Javert looked him up and down. “Better,” he said at last. “But not perfect. Here, let me.”

He took up boar bristle brush and shaving soap, gesturing for Valjean to turn towards the window so that he had good light for his work, then began to work up a lather.

“I can shave myself, sir,” Valjean said mildly.

Javert made a derisive sound. “You looked like a mess even when you were mayor. I remember that well. Now be silent or I’ll end up cutting you.”

Still smiling slightly, Valjean stood patiently as Javert applied the lather to his throat and around his mouth. Valjean wasn’t quite as bad at shaving as Javert claimed, but if Javert wanted an excuse to do this for him, Valjean would gladly be silent and enjoy the attention.

Javert worked swiftly, every touch practiced and without hesitation. Valjean liked watching Javert like this, deeply absorbed in an activity he had perfected, Javert’s attention on the task at hand. It was a rare chance to watch him without being watched in return.

Javert handled the shaving razor with the same ease with which he handled horse and riding crop. It was a good razor, sharpened to a cut throat edge; Javert put a great emphasis on quality in small things. The razor slid easily over Valjean’s cheeks, the touch so light he barely felt it.

The sun had come out, warming his bare skin. The perfume of Javert’s soap and the burning wood filled the room. Minutes ago, he’d embraced Javert, falling apart and clinging on as he drowned in the scent of his sweat and desire. Now, they stood facing each other and Valjean didn’t dare to move, and yet he loved this side of Javert just as tenderly as he loved the hungry lover impossible to sate.

Javert’s fingers touched his cheek, tilting his head up to bare his throat. Valjean swallowed, then held still as Javert touched the blade to his skin. 

Valjean could feel the throb of his own pulse, smell the heady scent of soap and sweat drying on Javert’s skin. Slowly, the blade scraped over thin skin. One wrong move might end his life—and yet all Valjean could feel was a strange thrill at the way Javert shifted him around and positioned him.

At last, Javert lifted the razor after another swipe to clean it, and Valjean’s lips parted for a shuddering breath. When Javert turned back to him, glistening razor in hand once more, Valjean followed it with his eyes, something hot and tight twisting in his stomach when he willingly bared his throat to the blade once more.

Javert lightly pressed the razor against his throat, then swallowed.

“You’ll be the death of me one day,” he murmured, his voice suddenly shaky, even though his hands were steady.

He continued to shave Valjean, razor gliding over skin with long, smooth swipes. Valjean felt strangely lightheaded, keeping his throat exposed to Javert’s razor even as his pulse sped up.

“There. All done.” Javert’s voice was rough when he pulled away at last, razor dropped into the bowl. Valjean remained motionless, awaiting Javert’s orders.

Next, at any other time, Javert would have used a damp cloth to wipe the remaining soap away. Instead, his fingers came up to Valjean’s throat, running over where the blade had gone. His thumb rested against Valjean’s racing pulse, caressing lightly. Then his fingers tightened—just enough to make Valjean’s heart speed up further.

“You need to stop distracting me,” Javert whispered tenderly, “or one of these days I’ll truly make a mistake.”

Then he leaned forward, hand still in place around Valjean’s throat, and kissed him, beard coarse against Valjean’s newly-smooth skin.

Javert liked touching him—now more than ever.

The worst thing about this entire mess, Valjean thought in despair, was how much he enjoyed the touches. God help him, but when Javert wrapped his arm around him, his cock buried deep inside him, Javert’s lips grazing his neck, Valjean couldn’t help the heat that welled up inside him, his body reacting to Javert’s torment no matter what Valjean wanted.

And Javert knew it. There was no way that he could have missed the way Valjean reacted to him.

As if to prove his theory, Javert’s hips moved lazily, cock sliding out and back in. The slow, deliberate thrusting was aided by copiously applied oil, the penetration made easy so there was nothing but the stretch and the fullness to savor, the pressure that made Valjean tremble.

“Sometimes I think you enjoy this even more than I do,” Javert whispered into his ear, and Valjean could hear the smile in his voice.

What a mess this was, all of it—but Valjean couldn’t help responding when Javert’s fingers searched out a swollen nipple, grown so sensitive during the past weeks that the touch of his shirt made him shiver sometimes.

Javert’s fingers weren’t as delicate as the shirt—but they were gentle in their own way, stroking tenderly instead of pinching. Even so, the sensation was maddening, his nipples aching for more so badly that he found himself pressing into Javert’s touch, silently begging for a firmer massage.

He received it—Javert was indulgent with him these days, had been ever since Valjean had been unable to deny the truth of what was happening.

Javert shifted them until he was able to wrap his arms around Valjean, both hands stroking Valjean’s aching chest.

Gratefully, Valjean moaned, the firm, tender touches easing the pressure somewhat, his need having long since overcome his shame. Javert touched him patiently, still buried deep inside Valjean. His touch soothed the discomfort for a while until his hands returned to Valjean’s sore nipples. They were so sensitive that the first touch wrung a sob from Valjean’s throat—but there was no escape from Javert’s arms, and even less of an escape from the maddening ache that made him look forward to these evenings as much as he dreaded them.

Javert played with his nipples carefully, giving Valjean just enough pressure that the constant feeling of soreness and fullness was eased a little. Only then, when Valjean had relaxed enough to press his swollen nipples against Javert’s hands in invitation, did he gently pinch. There was pain—but there was also pleasure, a bright flash of sharp sensation that made him gasp for breath and arch against Javert.

“So sensitive.” There was a new, smug satisfaction in Javert’s voice as he murmured the words against Valjean’s ears. “You must look forward to having a hungry little mouth to feed.”

Valjean gasped in pleasure, tears welling up in his eyes when Javert pinched again, harder this time, his nipples aching little pinpricks of fire. There was more pain than pleasure now, his swollen nipples smarting—but still he pushed himself into Javert’s touch, offering himself up to the pain and the curious, merciless hands that had explored his changing body so well, that knew just where to touch to make him forget all shame.

Javert’s hips kept rolling against him, Javert fucking him slowly, lazily. Valjean’s entire body thrummed with the burning heat of Javert’s demanding fingers that kept tormenting his nipples until at long last, his body convulsed in Javert’s embrace, his release spattering onto his stomach with no other stimulation.

The pressure of Javert’s fingers eased. They returned to the gentle massage that felt so good that Valjean felt sick with himself for how much he wanted to keep Javert’s fingers where they were. Javert’s thrusts increased in speed, Javert’s breathing hot and fast against his ear, strangely intimate with Javert’s arms around him. Finally, Javert spilled himself, his moan exhaled into Valjean’s hair.

Javert relaxed against him. The room was quiet. Outside, there was the sound of wind blowing among the roofs. Javert was still inside him, softening, but making no move to push Valjean away—and his hands were still on Valjean’s chest, stroking, soothing.

This was the worst thing that could have happened to him, Valjean thought in despair, even as Javert’s fingertips circled around his swollen nipples, his body tingling with pleasure at the touch.

Then Javert sighed deeply. He sounded already half asleep, and a moment later his head sank against Valjean’s shoulder, soft cock still inside him as Javert’s arm curved around his waist instead, palm pressed lovingly to the swell of Valjean’s stomach, possessive and proud.

This was a terrible mess, Valjean thought tiredly. This could not end but in despair.

Even so, despite everything, he felt strangely comforted by Javert’s touch.

Valjean had grown very quiet of late, ever since Javert had discovered his secret—the swell of his stomach, barely noticeable beneath his shirt then, and yet also undeniable when Javert had stripped him.

Valjean had become more withdrawn, yet at the same time, his outbursts had lessened. All in all, not an unpleasant development, Javert told himself, opting to ignore the problem he knew he should be worried about.

In any case, these things happened. Everyone knew that. Who would have been surprised to see a pretty woman like Fantine put an early end to her indenture with a growing belly?

That it was Jean Valjean instead—but then, better men than Javert would have found it impossible to deny their nature. What had happened couldn’t be undone, and although Javert would not have admitted it to any other, there was something sweetly pleasing about observing the changes in Valjean and knowing that those were his doing.

Valjean was a strong man, in any case. The babe would be healthy—and there’d be plentiful milk, he had no doubt of that.

Javert had set Valjean to work for the sisters of charity today. Easy work, doing numbers and writing letters. Valjean was still strong, but even so Javert couldn’t quite fight the insistent instinct that wanted to keep Valjean nearby and safe. 

When Javert came to see how Valjean was doing, he was even quieter than usual. He barely raised his head to acknowledge Javert, his eyes on the floor and his shoulders hunched.

Had something happened? Was Valjean hiding something?

Probably, Javert decided after a moment. But it was just as likely that it was nothing that should worry Javert. It must have been another letter smuggled from Fantine to those innkeepers, asking about her child. Well, let them conspire together. Better they wasted their free time on such sentimentality than on causing trouble for Javert.

Valjean followed him back to the station-house without protest. There, he hesitated, and gave the barracks a yarning look, dithering even when Javert gestured impatiently.

“You should let me clean up and change, sir,” Valjean said, his voice uncharacteristically pleading.

There it was, Javert thought in satisfaction. A ploy, as he had assumed—no doubt Valjean had a letter from Montreuil to secretly hand to Fantine.

Javert couldn’t care less if she wanted to waste what little coin she possessed to write to those accursed innkeepers, but she could damn well wait until he sent Valjean back in the morning.

“Come along,” he said sharply, opening the door to the station-house, and after a moment, Valjean followed with a look of utter despair.

He sent Valjean ahead of him with the order to make himself useful by setting the table for dinner and putting on a fire, while Javert wasted another twenty minutes in the station-house making certain that his agents had done their work.

When he at last climbed the stairs to his apartment, he found the table set and a fire crackling in the stove. Valjean was nowhere to be seen.

With a frown, Javert hung his coat by the door before he went to explore.

He found Valjean in his bedroom, as he had thought he might. Valjean was sitting on the bed, wearing only his shirt, facing away from him. He flinched when Javert stepped into the room, but refused to turn around, his shoulders still hunched and his arms wrapped around himself.

Still hiding something? There was a sweet scent in the air, and Javert’s nostrils flared, trying to place it.

“Turn around,” Javert said quietly.

Again Valjean hesitated. At last, eyes still on the ground, he turned to Javert, a picture of absolute misery. Javert felt his breath catch in his throat.

Valjean’s shirt was wet. The fabric clung to Valjean’s skin, revealing the swell of his chest. Wetness had rendered the thin cotton nearly translucent; Javert could see the dark, round areolas of Valjean’s swollen nipples through the shirt.

Javert swallowed, mesmerized. When he stepped closer, Valjean flinched and tried to turn away again, but Javert was faster.

He grabbed hold of Valjean’s arm to keep him in place as he sat down by his side. Then, heart beating fast in his chest, Javert reached out, hooking his finger into the knot that held Valjean’s shirt closed at the throat.

“Don’t,” Valjean said shakily.

With a single tug, the knot unraveled, the shirt falling open, baring Valjean’s chest.

Valjean’s skin was wet. From his large, swollen nipples a steady trickle of milk was running—and had been for a while, judging by the state of his shirt. Even as Javert watched, another drop of milk welled up, followed by another, beads of sweet, white liquid that swelled and grew until they began to run down Valjean’s chest.

As Javert stared in fascination, a flush spread over Valjean’s skin. He still couldn’t look at Javert—and Javert, in turn, couldn’t take his eyes away from the sight.

“Is that why you’ve been so skittish all day? You must have been aching for hours...”

Another drop of milk welled up. Javert wondered if it had hurt when the pressure began to build. Did it still hurt? It had to, with the way the milk kept flowing...

“I knew you’d have milk aplenty for a babe,” he murmured almost tenderly.

Slowly, he reached out and touched his fingertip to Valjean’s nipple, gathering the drop of milk. The light touch was enough to make Valjean bite back a gasp; his nipple was a dark red, and hot to the touch.

Yes; he must have been suffering for a while, all alone, the milk soaking his shirt.

Javert raised his finger to his mouth and tasted it. Valjean, who had at last looked up, exhaled shakily as he watched.

“Sweet,” Javert commented quietly.

Valjean remained silent, although more milk came dripping down his chest.

“Why didn’t you say something? It must have hurt. And you know I can ease the pain.”

Valjean swallowed, then shook his head.

Even so, he shivered when Javert ran his fingers over his milk-wet skin, and when Javert’s fingers sought out a swollen nipple once more, he gasped, his chest rising and falling quickly, more and more milk beading up.

Javert squeezed, and Valjean sobbed as milk came spurting free in a thin stream. Javert relented again, rubbing soothingly.

“No?” he asked gently. “It looks painful.”

Valjean’s heart was racing against his palm; Javert could feel it—just as he could feel the way Valjean wanted to press himself into his touch, yearning for him to ease the pressure.

“Are you going to make me send you back outside like this tomorrow?” Javert whispered, stroking a wet nipple with the lightest of touches. “Surely not.”

Valjean shuddered at the words, his flush spreading, deepening. Javert continued to stroke him with his fingertips—tender, delicate touches that didn’t ease the pressure. Milk was still trickling steadily down Valjean’s chest, the room thick with the sweet, warm smell of it.

At last, Valjean surrendered, as he always did. He sank back onto the bed and pulled the shirt open with shaking fingers, eyes still averted as he offered himself. Javert followed him down, the satisfaction that always filled him at Valjean’s surrender this time a deep, warm glow of pleasure instead of sharp delight.

Valjean was still trembling when Javert closed his mouth around a swollen nipple. Valjean sobbed once when Javert began to suck—it had to hurt, Javert thought compassionately, after so many hours of silent suffering.

Tenderly, he caressed Valjean’s chest, massaging the hot swell while Valjean shivered and finally arched against him. Milk was flowing freely into Javert’s mouth, warm and sweet, Valjean’s heart still racing against Javert’s palm. 

This time, when Javert lifted his head at last, Valjean had calmed enough to rest quietly beneath him, exhausted and loose-limbed. His skin was damp and sticky beneath Javert’s hands. After a moment, while Javert looked down at him, savoring the sight, Valjean turned a little to push his breast towards him in offering, his nipple gleaming with wetness.

Once more Javert leaned down and closed his lips around the inflamed nipple. When he began to suck gently, Valjean panted through the pain, only to gradually relax again when the pressure eased. At last, a tentative hand curved around Javert’s back, keeping him in place, and Javert found himself smiling against Valjean’s skin, the sweet taste of his milk filling his mouth.

This evening, Javert had made Valjean stretch out on his bed. It was an enchanting sight: Valjean naked in the light of candles, skin damp with perspiration and flushed with exertion, the strong body bound by ropes to which Valjean had willingly surrendered himself.

Not that rope was needed—but there was something pleasing to the sight of rope digging into strong muscle, and Valjean, going by the state of his achingly hard cock, seemed to have enjoyed the chance to struggle against him before his surrender.

Javert ran his hand over Valjean’s body, finding a nipple to flick before he curved his fingers around Valjean’s chin, tilting his face up for a kiss.

“I have plans for you today,” he said, without bothering to hide his excitement.

Before Valjean could ask questions, Javert covered his mouth with his own. He kissed him until Valjean relaxed into the ropes, letting himself be kissed and played with however Javert desired.

Javert smiled when he drew back, his lips brushing Valjean’s cheek.

“I think you’ll like it,” he whispered. “You don’t have to do anything—just let me do whatever I want.”

Valjean’s mouth curved, lips swollen from kisses, the deep lines surrounding his mouth, carved by old pain and fears, nearly invisible for once.

“Is that not what you always do, sir?”

“And you like it.”

Valjean exhaled, amused. He didn’t deny it, his eyes dark and gleaming with expectation.

It really was a pity to cover those expressive eyes. Still, the thought of Valjean drifting in darkness, having to experience only what he felt with no distraction by what he saw—oh, that was worth losing out on a glimpse of tears glistening on those lashes.

Javert pulled out a silken cravat and fastened it into a blindfold. Valjean’s breathing sped up when he saw it, but he made no move to resist when Javert wound it around his face, covering his eyes.

“There,” Javert said quietly. “Now all you have to do is surrender.”

Valjean remained quiet, his body still relaxed. Javert doubted that he feared what was to come—he knew what it looked like when Valjean was nervous. Valjean’s cock was harder than before, curving against his stomach, and Javert eyed it with approval. It wouldn’t get a lot of attention today, but that didn’t mean that Javert didn’t appreciate just how much Valjean liked it to be touched by him.

He started by pouring a generous amount of oil onto Valjean’s backside. He hadn’t given him any warning, and so Valjean gasped when the oil hit his skin. Once Javert began massaging it into his buttocks, the gasp quickly turned into a moan, Valjean dissolving into boneless pleasure when Javert’s fingers dug hard into the firm, round muscles.

Oil had dripped down Valjean’s crease as well. When Javert pulled his buttocks apart, he found the small hole already glistening, waiting for him, and so relaxed that he could have slid right inside. Instead, he used his fingers to stretch Valjean, massaging the oil into him and playing with him until Valjean began to squirm beneath him, his breathing heavy, his hole gaping open.

Javert poured more oil onto Valjean and onto his hand. Valjean’s thighs spread further in invitation—did he know what surrender Javert wanted today?

He had to, at this point, and he appeared eager for it, his hole reddened and stretched, glistening with oil, waiting for Javert.

His fingers slid inside smoothly, Valjean hot and tight like a tailored glove. Javert pushed in all the way down to his knuckles, and a moan vibrated through Valjean as he clenched around him. Javert waited until he relaxed again, then folded his thumb against his palm.

This time when he pushed forward, Valjean had to open wider, hole stretched taut around all the fingers of Javert’s hand as they reached the widest part of his palm.

With his free hand, Javert rubbed Valjean’s hip in encouragement as Valjean panted. Valjean’s hole tightened again, then loosened a little as Valjean groaned, and Javert used the chance to push inside.

Now that the widest part was in, Valjean’s body took him easily, Javert’s hand sliding inside until Valjean’s hole tightened around Javert’s wrist in relief.

“There,” Javert said soothingly and rubbed Valjean’s hip again as Valjean trembled around him. “That was the hardest part.”

A searching look showed him that despite the ache of the stretch, Valjean was still hard as a rock—just as Javert liked it.

“If you want to come today, it will have to be like this.” Javert lightly moved his fingers, touching Valjean from the inside.

The sensation made Valjean moan helplessly, a tremor running through his entire body, a drop of fluid dripping from his cock.

Javert smiled. He twisted his wrist a little before he repeated the motion, his fingertips exerting pressure that made Valjean try to arch against the rope as he moaned desperately.

“Not so fast.” Javert began to move carefully to let Valjean get used to the sensation, rocking back and forth inside him just a little. “I’m far from finished with you.”

Slowly, Javert pushed again, watching as Valjean’s stretched hole swallowed more of his wrist, his hand sinking deeper into the soft heat. Valjean was trembling around him, his insides clinging to Javert like hot silk, so soft and vulnerable inside that Javert could barely breathe.

Javert stroked his hip again, giving Valjean a moment to relax.

“I told you. All you need to do today is yield to me.”

More pressure, and again Valjean’s body opened for Javert. His hole stretched wide around Javert’s wrist, taking another inch as Valjean shivered in his bonds. Javert reached out to run a finger along the tightly stretched hole, then watched in fascination as it swallowed yet another inch of him when he pushed.

“Look at how much you can take,” he whispered in fascination, sinking deeper, then pulling back out a little only to slide back inside once more.

Swallowing hard, Javert twisted his hand a little, fingertips fluttering against the soft warmth of his body from the inside so that Valjean moaned desperately, his entire body pulsing around Javert.

“I’m the only one who’ll ever touch you like this.”

Again he pulled out, again he pushed in, the soft heat of Valjean’s body yielding, just as he’d demanded, giving everything to him, Valjean’s body as tense as a drawn bow.

Javert began to move a little faster, increasing the pressure of each thrust, and Valjean’s body took even that. More than that, he opened up for it willingly. He could feel Valjean’s hole pulsing around him, trying to pull him deeper and deeper as Valjean’s hard cock slapped against his belly with every thrust.

“More,” Javert said relentlessly, slowing again. He uncurled his fingers to feel his way deeper inside Valjean, stroking with light fingertips all the secret, innermost parts of Valjean that even Valjean himself had never touched.

Valjean sobbed, his chest heaving with every labored breath as he strained against the rope, trying to arch against him. Javert could see the muscles of his strong thighs tremble as he held himself open, his hole pulling at Javert, giving up everything to him. Heart racing, Javert watched as he sank even deeper, deeper than he’d ever been, halfway up his forearm now.

“There,” he breathed, his voice thick with the pride he couldn’t hide. “Can you feel that?”

Again he moved his fingers, stroking Valjean from within, then gently tightened his fingers into a fist.

“Can you feel it?” he repeated, his cock throbbing in the same urgent rhythm as Valjean’s heartbeat against his skin. 

All around him, Valjean was trembling—all that strength, and it hadn’t helped Valjean, stretched out and tied up and utterly at Javert’s mercy.

Again Javert began to move deep inside, Valjean trembling and moaning at every shift of his fingers as Javert laid claim to those secret, tender parts of him.

Javert could feel Valjean come like that, his cock still untouched. His climax seemed to ripple through him from the inside, all around Javert as Valjean’s body shook and pulsed. His hole was clinging tightly to Javert’s arm as Javert kept stretching out his fingers, drinking up the sensation of feeling Valjean orgasm from the inside, stroking the tender tissue from within as Valjean fell apart in that final, absolute surrender.

Javert waited until Valjean had recovered somewhat before he gently began to wiggle his fingers inside him, feeling Valjean’s breath catch. Valjean’s balls were still tightly drawn up, his cock, only half-wilted, twitching with new, pained interest as the blindfold kept him floating in sensation.

“You don’t think we’re done yet, do you?” Javert murmured hungrily. “Your body doesn’t seem to think so. And I, for one, believe that I can make you come like this again before I’m done with you.”

Valjean had followed him willingly into the stall waiting for them in Delisle’s stable, and had only hesitated a moment before obeying when Javert told him to strip.

The stable was busy; they weren’t the only guests for the weekend, and every now and then, someone would pass in front of their stall. It was no wonder Valjean was skittish, although this wasn’t the first time Javert had prepared him in this place.

Still, there was one thing that was different—the brand beneath Valjean’s hipbone hadn’t been there the last time they had visited. It was the first time they’d get to show it off.

“Will you hold still, or do I need to tie you?” Javert asked.

Valjean drew in a deep breath, then shook his head lightly and moved to stand in front of Javert, naked in the golden straw.

Javert reached out to curve his hand around Valjean’s cheek.

“Good boy,” he said softly and fished a lump of sugar from his pocket. Valjean took it gently with his lips from his palm.

Next, Javert took out a brush with soft bristles and began to brush Valjean all over. Valjean shivered, clearly enjoying the attention, and when Javert moved to his front, he saw that Valjean’s cock was starting to harden despite his earlier nerves.

He gave Valjean an approving smile, then took the metal ring from his pocket to smooth it down Valjean’s cock, pushing his balls through it as well until it settled snugly around the base. Valjean breathed heavily but didn’t complain. He knew it was a kindness. The ring would help him to stay hard for as long as Javert wanted to show him off.

With a different brush, Javert set to work on Valjean’s hair. It was cut short in a fashionable style that showed off Valjean’s curls and pleased Javert, although there was one disadvantage compared to the unfashionable length he’d let Valjean grow it to the first time he’d shown him off.

It had been easier then to braid silken ribbons into Valjean’s hair, and even Javert couldn’t deny that it had been quite a sight to see Valjean’s mane flutter in the wind as he trotted before Javert’s chaise.

Still, he managed to braid a few ribbons into Valjean’s shorter hair, silk in the colors of sea foam and emerald and mint. It was the only adornment Valjean would wear, and all he truly needed.

Valjean held still for the ribbons, trustfully bending his head for Javert’s hands, even when Javert’s fingers encountered the old scars hidden beneath his hair. When Javert took a step back to survey his work, Valjean stamped a foot and tossed his head lightly, the fluttering ribbons drawing a smile from Javert.

“Easy,” he said. “We’re not done yet.”

Next, Javert poured a measure of oil into his palm, lightly scented with sandalwood. He rubbed his hands together to spread the oil, then began to massage it into Valjean’s skin.

By the time he reached Valjean’s cock, Valjean was fully hard, the ring tightly in place, keeping him erect. Valjean moved into his touch when Javert stroked him a few times until his swollen cock and balls glistened like the rest of him. Then Javert moved to Valjean’s back.

He could feel the old scars against his fingertips as he rubbed the oil into him—and he could feel Valjean tense slightly. No doubt Valjean would imagine the eyes on them, and the reaction the scars never failed to produce, but that couldn’t be helped.

Javert ignored them, calmly continuing his work until Valjean began to relax once more.

He took his time massaging the oil into Valjean’s buttocks, squeezing the firm muscle in appreciation, then rubbing first over his hole and then into it with just as much care. Valjean was loose and relaxed—and appreciative of his touch, going by the sounds he produced when Javert kept sliding in and out of him, toying with him for no other reason but that he could, and that Valjean liked it.

“Always such a tempter,” Javert whispered into his ear with a smile when he finally withdrew. “But I’m not going to fuck you in a stable. Now lean forward against the wall.”

Valjean knew what was coming next and willingly spread his legs apart, his hands against the wall, glistening hole awaiting the plug in Javert’s hand. Javert smoothed more oil over it, then pressed it against Valjean’s hole, watching as Valjean panted, body spreading open around the polished wood until it slid inside.

All that remained visible was the beautiful tail of silver horse hair, into which Javert had braided another silk ribbon, hanging down past Valjean’s knees.

He left Valjean for a moment to fetch the bridle. When he returned, Valjean had managed to straighten and turn back around with the plug securely inside him, stretching him. Valjean’s cock had swollen to a dark red, the tip already glistening.

“Beautiful,” Javert said quietly.

Valjean took an unsteady step towards him, his breathing labored, hard cock jutting helplessly into the air. It truly was a beautiful sight. What other man could boast of a stallion as fine as him?

When Javert held out the bit on his palm, Valjean opened his mouth willingly for it, panting nervously when Javert fastened the leather straps of the bridle around his head. Javert was glad that he had chosen to put the blinkers on Valjean. It would help with his nerves to have his field of vision diminished in such a way, and Javert truly was eager to show him and his training off.

He watched as Valjean stomped a foot again, then shivered at the pressure of the plug inside him, a first drop of wetness dripping from his cock. Valjean tongued at the metal bit in his mouth and shook his head slightly, although he stood still obediently when Javert grasped the reins and stepped closer.

“Good boy,” Javert said softly and pushed another lump of sugar into his mouth, past the bit. Valjean watched him as he sucked on it, eyes already gone wide and dark, nervous and so sweetly trusting that Javert felt the need for him like a sharp ache in his chest.

There truly was no finer stallion in all of France.

Javert reached out to where he’d burned the letter J into Valjean’s skin with his own hands, caressing it until Valjean shivered and relaxed, still watching him quietly, trustfully, utterly devoted.

Ready to do anything Javert asked of him today.

Javert exhaled, then gave the reins a gentle tug.

“Let’s show you off then,” he said with one last, proud glance at the letter at Valjean’s hip, the pale scar impossible to miss and pronouncing him Javert’s forever, for all to see.

After an excellent dinner, they’d retired to Delisle’s drawing room. Raven, who was as naked as Valjean, knelt by Delisle’s feet. Valjean watched jealously as Raven snuggled up against his master’s legs, earning himself an indulgent pat on his head.

Javert, meanwhile, pointed at the floor next to his chair, and when Valjean obediently went to his feet, nudged him until he was positioned on his hands and knees, back straight. Valjean soon learned why when Javert placed the tumbler of brandy he’d been sipping on his back, using him as if he were a table.

When Valjean raised his head in consternation, he saw Raven give him a smug look, resting his head on his master’s knee.

“If you spill my drink,” Javert said warningly, “you’ll feel my belt right here in front of our hosts.”

Sullenly, Valjean lowered his head, but not without giving Raven another jealous look.

He’d been so well-behaved all evening, and what had it won him? Raven was petted and fed treats, and he had to kneel all evening, to be ignored by Javert.

“He doesn’t look happy with you today,” Delisle said with a laugh.

Javert scoffed. “I can give him something to be truly unhappy about.”

Valjean tensed instinctively, only belatedly remembering the glass balancing on his back, feeling it wobble and then straighten again.

Javert exhaled. “Don’t tempt me,” he said, his voice dangerously soft.

Valjean swallowed at his tone and looked down at the floor, trying to find his equilibrium. He didn’t want to upset Javert. And what if Raven was treated better than him—Delisle was not Javert and had different expectations.

For all that he too yearned to kneel at Javert’s feet with his head on his knee, it was enough that Javert had given him a task to do. It was a simple demand, really. Valjean could do it, and do it well, because anything else would reflect badly on Javert.

It was more than enough to be of use, Valjean told himself. It was a reward all of its own. It was—

Javert reached past him, his hand coming to rest on Raven’s beautiful, dark curls. He lightly tousled his hair before he followed the line of Raven’s cheekbones with his fingertips, then traced the curve of his lips. Raven’s mouth parted teasingly, Javert’s finger penetrating his mouth—

“Hold still, damn you,” Javert snapped, and Valjean realized with sudden dismay that the tumbler on his back had shifted.

Javert let go of Raven and reached out, saving the glass just in time, and Valjean couldn’t help but think that it would have served Javert right if the brandy had spilled. If Javert hadn’t had to touch Raven—

“I can see how it is,” Javert said darkly.

“He’s easily distracted, isn’t he?” Delisle asked, amused. “Perhaps he needs someone to teach him to focus.”

“The belt usually does the job,” Javert said.

Morose and unhappy with himself, Valjean hunched his shoulders again. It had been a good day so far. Why did it have to end like this?

Javert rose.

“Stay where you are,” he said sharply when Valjean looked up.

Valjean flushed and lowered his head again, face burning with shame as he stared at the floor once more.

He didn’t have to wait long.

When he heard the sound of Javert’s steps returning to his side, he kept his eyes on the floor, waiting for the promised fall of the belt.

Instead, Javert’s foot nudged his knees apart. Then something was pressed to his hole, slippery enough that it went right in despite Valjean’s shock, his muscles squeezing around it.

Almost immediately, Valjean could feel a familiar warmth. He groaned in dismay, trying to keep himself from squeezing harder as the warmth increased in intensity.

Delisle chuckled. “An interesting solution. I’m not certain that will solve your problem, but it will be fascinating to watch.”

Valjean ignored him, panting softly as his hole began to burn—an insistent ache inside him that made him squirm and arch his back before Javert sharply slapped his buttocks.

In contrition, Valjean straightened his back once more, breathing heavily as the ginger inside him truly began to heat up.

He knew how it would go. The niggling burn inside him would make him squirm and clench around the peeled ginger. Every time his muscles contracted around it, they’d squeeze more of the burning juices from the fiery root, the heat increasing.

How was he to keep still enough to not spill Javert’s brandy?

Javert sat down in his chair once more. Desperately, Valjean tried to keep from squirming as the heat made him throb. It wasn’t unbearable—it never really got to that point—but it made him tremble and ache, his balls already tightly drawn up although he knew that Javert’s game had only just started.

Then Javert placed something heavy on his back, and Valjean exhaled, trying to keep from spilling more of the brandy.

Javert and Delisle were talking once more. For all Valjean knew, Raven was snuggling up to Delisle again, blatantly showing off his own spoiled status, but Valjean could not even focus enough to understand what they were talking about.

All that remained was the heat inside him, the burning tingling of his hole that made him pant for breath, and the awareness of Javert’s drink balanced on his back.

Valjean was breathing heavily. His cock was aching as well, the burning of the ginger’s juices sending little flares of heat through his body. He tried to concentrate on keeping his hole relaxed around the ginger and on keeping his back straight for Javert—but eventually, the niggling burn became unbearable and he had to move. Miserably, he tried to raise his hip as he bit his lip. Anything to shift the ginger just a little—

The glass on his back shifted. Hot wax splashed down on him. Valjean cried out, only now realizing that the weight on his back wasn’t Javert’s glass at all but a burning candle.

“I won’t tell you to hold still again,” Javert said. “It’s your own choice. But if you can’t hold still, you’ll suffer the consequences.”

Valjean clenched helplessly around the ginger, the fierce burn making him tremble once more. More liquid wax dripped down onto his skin, making him gasp in shock.

He could hear Raven laugh. Javert made an amused sound, a hand patting his buttocks, then probing his hole to make sure the ginger was still firmly in place.

Valjean moaned miserably at the stimulation. His hole throbbed eagerly against Javert’s fingers, but he managed just barely to keep his back straight even as he shivered, his cock pulsing with painful need.

“See,” Javert said with cruel satisfaction as he withdrew again. “You’re already learning.”

It was one of Javert’s favorite sights: Valjean, naked, bent over his desk, holding himself still despite the tenseness of his body, which signaled that he knew what was to come.

Javert stroked Valjean’s buttocks with the riding crop, watching as Valjean drew in a deep breath, then relaxed, waiting.

His first strike made Valjean gasp. The second made him tremble, body tensing as he forced himself to keep holding still.

The third strike finally earned Javert a soft sob, three bright lines running across Valjean’s buttocks—red welts that would smart for a good, long while.

Just to make certain, Javert added a fourth line, bringing forth another sob, Valjean’s breath hitching even though he never moved.

He’d never cried in the hulks, Javert thought as he looked down at a back marred by the knotted scars left by the whip. But now, in this apartment that had become their home over the years, how many times had he seen Valjean cry? Too often to keep count.

It was rewarding to draw out those emotions. Perhaps even more rewarding than the sight of the welts, which would fade after a few days.

Javert was the only one who had ever reduced Valjean to such a state: face wet with tears, body damp with sweat, the powerful chest heaving as he strained helplessly. And yet Valjean surrendered himself to Javert so completely so willingly every single time...

With a shuddering breath, Javert set the crop aside, then made Valjean stand.

Valjean’s eyes were brimming with tears that gleamed on his lashes like diamonds. As Javert watched, a tear ran down Valjean’s face. Deep lines surrounded his mouth, his lips trembling as he looked at Javert, and Javert felt breathless again at the sight.

Such vulnerability from a man who had never broken.

Javert found himself reaching out, his thumb following the track of a tear in fascination. Then he brushed against Valjean’s lips, felt the rapid, shallow breathing, hot air ghosting against his fingertip.

With a groan, he leaned in, kissing Valjean with the salt of his tears still on his lips.

“Do you know what you do to me when you cry?” he murmured against Valjean’s mouth.

When he drew back, Javert took one of Valjean’s hands and pressing it to where his cock was chafing against his trousers. Valjean exhaled shakily, breath warm against Javert’s skin, and stroked him gently through the fabric.

“Will you keep crying for me if I fuck you like this?” Javert asked. “My skin against your welts with every thrust?”

Valjean swallowed, tear-wet eyes going dark with need at Javert’s words.

“You know you can do to me whatever you want, sir,” he said breathlessly, his touch growing more urgent.

Javert laughed in quiet satisfaction. Then he leaned in once more, lips brushing tenderly against Valjean’s wet cheek, kissing away hot tears before he’d cause new tears to fall.

“Let’s see how good you are then,” Red’s master said, his voice still full of derision.

Valjean swallowed, his heart racing with the awareness that he was this man’s property for the night. Everyone had seen Jacques win the charity auction and hand over the money. Everyone had watched as he had triumphantly led Valjean away.

And now Valjean was all alone in this man’s rooms, the door locked behind them, Javert’s tail plug still inside him, and his naked body completely exposed.

Jacques took a seat, then gestured impatiently.

“I expected to be obeyed promptly,” he said with a sneer. “Your master might let such things slide, but I promise you that I have far higher standards.”

Valjean went to his knees before the man. The plug inside him shifted, sending a jolt of pleasure through him that made his cock jerk and ache for a touch despite his apprehension.

Jacques made a derisive sound at the sight. “Get to work. Suck my cock.”

His face burning, Valjean reached out to open the flap of Jacques’s trousers. He was hard and of a good size, and Valjean had to swallow again when he found himself face to face with Jacques’s erection.

The earlier fantasy had become reality. Valjean truly was at this man’s mercy for the night, had been sold—for an impressive price, but been sold nevertheless.

Suddenly there was a hand in Valjean’s hair, gripping so harshly that involuntary tears burned in his eyes.

“Not off to a good start,” Jacques said quietly. “Don’t make me repeat myself again. I knew you wouldn’t be all that you were made out to be, but I didn’t think I’d have to start with such basic lessons.”

“I’m sorr—” Valjean began, interrupted by a sudden, stinging pain as the back of Jacques’s hand connected with his face.

Wide-eyed, cheek throbbing, Valjean reared back, his heart racing as he looked up at Jacques in shock.

“You don’t talk unless I ask you a question.” Jacques’s lips narrowed as he stared down at him in distaste. “If I’d known that I’d have to break you in first, I would never have bid on you.”

“You would have, sir,” Valjean said rebelliously, even though his heart was beating fast at his audacity.

Jacques drew in a sharp breath as he stood, and Valjean stared at him from his position on his knees, terrified and filled with helpless exhilaration, like a man about to dive from a high cliff.

Another slap that sent him reeling. Valjean’s lip stung; when he probed it with his tongue, he could taste blood. Breathlessly, he stared up at Jacques, his cock still throbbing, achingly hard despite the man’s thunderous expression.

“You will call me master,” Jacques forced out through his teeth. “And this was the last time you’ve spoken without permission tonight.”

Valjean raised his chin in defiance. “I have one master only. Sir.”

“That master,” Jacques said with quiet fury, “should pay me for having to teach you manners. You’re little better than a wild beast. He should never have been allowed to—”

“I’m sorry, sir,” Valjean said in sudden terror when he realized that he had forgotten the most important fact: that his own behavior would reflect back on Javert.

He swallowed and lowered his eyes in contrition, kneeling quietly before Jacques, head bent as he worried what Javert would say, should Jacques complain about him in front of his friends.

Jacques exhaled loudly, then stepped closer. “We’ll see about that.”

A moment later, Valjean felt the punishing grip in his hair once more. He blinked against the tears that rose and opened his mouth to show his eagerness—although Jacques gave him no chance to show off his skill.

A heartbeat later, Jacques’s cock was forced into his mouth, thrusting in hard and deep so that Valjean choked. His eyes burned at the rough treatment before he managed to swallow around Jacques, forcing himself to hold still and let the man use him.

And that was what he did—use Valjean, with little thought for his comfort.

Valjean’s mouth was full of the taste that was not Javert’s. He struggled to keep his mouth open and his throat relaxed. Every rough thrust made his eyes tear again. He could feel the wetness run down his cheeks as he grew lightheaded—and even now, at this cruel treatment, his cock was throbbing shamefully, achingly hard.

When Jacques pulled back at last, Valjean coughed miserably and bent over, struggling for breath. Once more, Jacques went to sprawl in his chair. At his gesture, Valjean came hastily crawling in penitence, pressing his lips to Jacques’s hard cock, licking up towards the tip where droplets of fluid were already welling up.

A thousand francs, Valjean thought with a shiver as he kissed the crown of Jacques’s cock reverently. A thousand francs Jacques had paid for him to do this—a man who loathed him and who had never made a secret of it. 

Valjean licked at the tip. The droplets of pleasure were bitter on his tongue, and he made himself relish their taste, thinking again of the money Jacques had paid.

It would go to a school in a nearby village. Somewhere, a child would receive help, for the price of his humiliation.

Valjean closed his lips around Jacques’s cock and let him slide into his mouth again, eyes burning, and made himself savor the sensation despite his shame.