Title: Nature and Nurture
Work ID: 42608379
Author: Ekevka
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Pre-Slash, very open ended, Vampire Javert, Or Is he?
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Some of the rumours that went around in the prison were helpful: which guard had the lightest hand, which one was the angriest in general and which one was open to personal favours in exchange for food or lighter labour.

Some of the rumours concerned the inmates and would usually be the same, although prisoners could only offer whatever goods they smuggled in or protection against someone else.

Some were fairly typical to what Valjean would hear from his sister about the going-ons in their village, only the names were only male and instead of someone giving birth, it was someone being released or running away.

And some were downright  ridiculous.

“I tell you, I saw that new black-haired guard drink from the dog’s neck. The one that was so old it didn’t even bark anymore?” Gerard whispered, as they went to the working site.

Valjean grunted something: this was useless and the more Gerard spent wondering about, the likelier he was to get a whip and thus leave more of the work to Valjean.

“I saw it!” Gerard wasn’t completely foolish and thus interpreted the grunt correctly. “And I’m talking to the cure. He would do something.”

The new guard was today at the work site and followed Gerard with his black eyes. Still, he was practically out in the sun, even if only the skin of his face was visible and even that he kept in the shade. 

Vampires Valjean heard about came from graves and kept to the night.

No one would argue that the prison was akin to a night of the soul; however, the new guard came from the city, everyone already heard that, and probably had parents, however loving they were.

Valjean signed and forgot all about Gerard’s ramblings.

They had a long day ahead.

 

***

 

People of Montreuil-sur-Mer sometimes joked that Javert didn’t seem to sleep: no matter the day he was either in the police station checking the papers or out patrolling the streets and land around the town proper. 

The only building he was never seen around was the church - somehow even the holiest of days were not without crime! The mayor tried to talk his inspector into attending, but on this Javert was firm: law came first.

The mayor just frowned then; later on he would speak of mercy, of God’s grace and it would be Javert’s turn to frown, as if he had a similar secret as the one hidden under the mayor’s cuffs and collars. Oh, in those moments the mayor was almost ready to confess his own sins, if only that would lead to Javert opening up - there was something in the mayor’s chest that demanded openness with the one man who would appreciate it in full, who would  see  the transformation that the mayor was proud of, because he knew Valjean at his worst and now saw the mayor at his best, and in the twilight or candlelight of his office that sometimes seemed to be built on lies Valjean wanted to be understood once again, especially by the very man who practically embodied the law that would so despise him.

Then the moment would pass, or Javert, sensing the hour by some fifth sense of his, would take his leave.

The mayor never stopped him; after all Javert was never tempted by tea, or wine, or hearty supper, no matter how thin he looked in winter or how the mayor tried.

If it wasn’t for the way Javert looked at him sometimes - not the dutiful law officer, or the man trying to remember someone, but how his sister’s husband looked at her - the mayor would have stopped trying.

 

***

 

Valjean had recognised Javert the Inspector and fled, but his fever made him question the recognition. 

Was he really there? Was it another officer with the same voice, the same figure, the same manner, self-assured yet self-deprecating in a way that appealed to Valjean? Certainly there could be no one like Javert!

It was certainly the fever that both did not allow Valjean to be sure and made him certain that no one but Javert could be responsible for the distraction that saved Valjean's life. However, he was glad for the garden, the walls, even his illness that kept Cosette close and him in bed: a month was more than enough for something to distract Javert!

However, once the illness was gone, and Valjean again went out for walks, to give aims, or to bring water, he couldn't help but feel chased. There was not a trace of Thernadier, or anyone like him, or that boy from Luxemburg, yet sometimes, especially in the shadows of twilight, Valjean felt a heavy and familiar gaze.

He turned, he looked at shop windows, he tried to sneak a glance but to no avail: whoever followed him was unseen to his own eyes.

Eventually, Valjean believed this to be yet another consequence of the Gorbeau House affair, and stopped paying attention. 

Still, he asked Toussaint to always have an abundance of garlic, and made provisions to plant some, for he definitely heard somewhere that dark forces feared its flowers and scent of the bulbes, and he never went to Rue de Homme Arme if he felt that gaze upon himself.

 

***

 

It came to a sudden conclusion one summer evening; Valjean came to the door on rue de Babylone and saw a man already beside it, clearly waiting.

The street lamps gave enough light that Valjean recognised that figure at once and almost turned away - he could access the house from the gates on rue Plumet, and they could leave at first light tomorrow, or, probably, even tonight…

"Monsieur Fauchelevent!" Javert called, stopping Valjean as effectively as shooting him: both the realisation that he was found and by whom he was found were pinning Valjean into place.

"Monsieur Javert," Valjean nodded, benevolently, a bourgeois to a police officer and then realised that he should have pretended to not know Javert at all.

Still, the words escaped, and a quick glance around suggested that the man came alone, for there were no other possible policemen nor a carriage to take Valjean away.

"I have brought you a document that might ease some of your burdens," Javert said, and Valjean automatically took the paper, not quite touching Javert's fingers but feeling the cold of them, as was usual.

It almost brought him back to Montreuil, if not for the sweat on his back reminding him that time had passed. 

"Thank you," Valjean forced himself to notice something else, that Javert seemed to wear the same coat and hat as back then, that his hair was still as black, that his eyes were filled with something between curiosity and… well, if they were different people, Valjean would have said affection.

Javert leaned forward; his long canines caught the light as he said:

"With that business concluded, I cannot enter your house unless you or anyone else living there invites me. Nonetheless, I do hope that we meet again, monsieur," he tipped his hat and was off, his steps light.

Valjean waited till he left to open the door, and didn't open the envelope until he was in his room.

Inside was a posthumous pardon in his name.