Title: Not Your Guardian Angel
Work ID: 786108
Author: LadyRagnelle
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert & Jean Valjean, Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Afterlife, Character Death, Canonical Character Death, References to Suicide, Ghosts
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Valjean stopped eating after three days. After Cosette's wedding he had returned to Rue de l'Homme-Armé number 7 to hide himself from the worried eyes of Cosette.

His daughter–no, not his daughter anymore, Madame Pontmercy, had all but begged him to live with her and his Marius in the big empty house they were sharing. But how could he? His dark presence would only ruin their marriage.

Valjean stopped eating three days after he told Marius Pontmercy the truth about his past. He slept, mostly, looking at the window, waiting for Madame Pontmercy to visit him and hating himself for desiring it.

On the fourth day Touissant knocked on his door, demanding to be immediately admitted and stuttering about how he could at least give her a little more time before asking her to return to Rue de l'Homme-Armé.

Valjean looked at the woman, surprised. "I–I never asked you anything."

"But Monsieur Fauchelevent, you sent me a letter, begging me to return to your services. How could I refuse when you had been so good with me?"

And she showed him the letter. It was true.

****

Valjean could not dismiss Madame Toussaint, not after she had left her job to return to him.

The letter remained a mystery. The writing looked like his own hand, and surely did not belong to Cosette, but he did not remember writing it. Valjean spent hours by the light of a candle, looking at the frail piece of paper in which he had gently asked for Touissant's help.

Probably he was just going mad.

When Cosette visited him again, she was more than glad to find the old woman with her father.

"Do not call me Papa, Madame Pontmercy," he had told her, once, and still every time the young woman called him 'Papa' by accident his heart was filled with guilty warmth.

"Papa, I am so relieved to see that you are not alone in this house. And you should eat more; you have become so thin. Would you like to accompany me to lunch?"

"You don't have to worry about me, thank you. I have just eaten," he lied to her, smiling. He had always been good at lying, especially to Cosette.

That night Valjean was readying himself for bed when Madame Toussaint knocked at his door, holding a tray with biscuits and a cup of hot tea.

"Here you are, Monsieur Fauchelevent," she announced, happily. "As you asked."

"As I... asked?" murmered Valjean, surprised when the woman set the tray on his dresser, clearly waiting for him to take a biscuit and nibble at it.

"Of course, didn't you just ask me for this? I thought I heard your voice from your room. Did I do wrong?"

"No, not at all, thank you."

****

Valjean started eating again. Some days he forgot to ask for food but Toussaint always seemed to receive some mysterious instruction. Sometimes it was a male voice that she thought Valjean's and sometimes a note.

Valjean's stomach adjusted itself again for to food and after a couple of weeks he was eating as he always had.

Still the mystery remained. Was Madame Toussaint being instructed secretly by Cosette? Was he going mad?

Every night he dreamt of Javert. Inspector Javert with his stern, disapproving face, a smirk on his lips.


****

"I am going mad," whispered Valjean, looking out the window. He–no, someone pretending to be him–had accepted Cosette and Marius' invitation to spend Christmas with them, at their house.

He had gone, because it was madness or God, one or the other, madness or providence. Just in case it was providence, he had hopefully accepted.

It had just begun to snow, and the window had fogged over a bit.

Valjean passed a hand over his face. He was doing everything wrong. He should be running away, leaving Cosette to her happiness, where she could live without shadows.

When he raised his glance again someone–something–was writing into the fog on the window.

"24601. Stop complaining," he read, incredulous. "24601–Javert?"

"Stop complaining and think of yourself.” The ghost, or angel, used the formal 'vous.' “You are not a martyred saint, you are a man."

"A madman, because surely you can't be here. I read that you died," whispered Valjean. He was sure Javert had died just after their encounter. Curiosity had burned in him since then. “How did you die?"

He waited for twenty minutes but there were no more messages on the window.

****

Valjean spent a happy Christmas with Cosette. With his family. They exchanged gifts and he observed with amazed interest how Cosette's smile grew brighter and brighter every time he spoke to her.

"See, papa?" she said that Christmas night, kissing him goodnight. "My life can't be complete if I don't have both my father and my husband. One can't be the other and I need both."

Two hours later, while Valjean was in bed, a servant brought him a cup of tea. "Like you asked in the note," she explained.

"Of, course, like I asked in the note," he repeated, once she left. He started drinking the tea, too sweet but hot enough to warm him, looking around the room. "Are you my guardian angel now, Javert?"

Some of the tea was splashed on his face.

****

Jean Valjean returned to Rue de l'Homme-Armé number 7 three days after Christmas carrying Marius's gift to him: a chessboard. "You can play with Cosette when she visits you," Marius had told him, awkwardly, without meeting his eyes.

He had never learnt to play chess but now he was alone in his house and it seemed like he could not even let himself die as a martyr, it could be the time to learn.

He started playing chess with a ghost.

"Can I move my queen here–is it allowed?" he asked. It was still very new to him.

He tried to move the piece but he couldn't even raise it from the board. That was a no, then.

"I understand. Let's go with the bishop. It should be my lucky piece. It was a bishop that saved my soul and life."

That time he won.

****

The last part of Valjean's belief that he was seeing things that did not exist disappeared on a Tuesday.

He was walking in the market to buy some apples for Toussaint, who wanted to bake a pie when he realized that somehow he had regained the strength for long walks in the park. It was still cold but he had been closed in his house for so long that he gladly enjoyed it. And his ghost had made certain he had a scarf.

Valjean was buying the apples when suddenly he noticed a child. Quite a common little gamin, dressed in rags with dirty, matted brown hair and the look of a hunter. What made Valjean pause was the fact that the child had a hand raised over a little stand full of bread. The hand was hovering over the loaf of bread, immobile. The child was trying to pull his own hand back, but could not, as if an invisible grip was immobilizing it.

"Help me, sir!" said the child to Valjean, noticing that the old man was looking at him. The seller was distracted, talking with a kind lady who was telling him of all her lovely daughters.

"What's happening?" asked Valjean, moving closer to him.

"I don't know! A demon, a ghost! I wasn't trying to steal, I swear." The child was on the verge of tears.

Valjean took the child's wrist, feeling something cold, soft as a cloud but invisible, around it.

"I may know what is happening," he told the little boy, smiling at him to soothe him. Then he looked around and said in an uncertain voice, feeling immensely silly, "Inspector, I think you should let him go. He had learnt his lesson."

The child's arm was still held fast in the invisible grip.

"It's not as if you can arrest him."

With a yelp, the child pulled his own wrist against his stomach, finally free. "What was that? I won't steal, I promise!"

"It's all right, don't you worry. Here let me–" Valjean bought him the bread and left him with the promise to come by Rue de l'Homme-Armé number 7 if he ever needed anything.

****

Valjean never knew when Javert was with him. He didn't know how it worked for the ghost. Sometimes he spoke to the empty room without receiving any answer, but he always put a piece of paper and some ink in front of him.

Sometimes words showed on the paper, a rough scrawl as if traced with fingers dipped in the ink.

They did not talk, if it could be called that, too much. They played chess. Valjean had become quite good at it. Javert listened to Valjean's stories, to the story of his life. When Valjean told of the Bishop and his sacrifices, Javert traced a senseless line of black ink on the paper to let him know that he was listening and had not simply disappeared.

Why didn't you sell the candlesticks?

Valjean looked at the paper and at the question, confused. "How could I sell them? They are gold for me, diamonds, they are the most precious thing I own. The price of my soul promised to God."

I thought the most precious was Cosette.

"Cosette is not a thing, she is a person. And that's the reason why I can't keep her with me like I keep those candlesticks."

****

Valjean's life remained lonely. He kept eating, he kept walking and he kept visiting Cosette but the young woman was suffering because of the cold relationship that still existed between Marius and her father.

Valjean had also found out that Marius had no intention of using his–Cosette's–money because he believed it stolen from a mayor named Madeleine, and that Valjean had killed the police inspector Javert.

Why don't you tell him the truth? Do you take such pleasure in being a martyr?

"Didn't I kill you? Why did you kill yourself?" Valjean asked, instead.

The only way.

"The only way for what?" insisted Valjean, frustrated over their tentative way of communicating. A pain had installed itself in his heart of late. His hands often closed and opened as if to grab someone, trying to touch a body that was now ethereal. He had begun to forget Javert's face and voice.

To let a redeemed man go free. I could not be the law and be kind.

"I didn't–I was ready to be arrested. Cosette would marry. You could have taken me to the station and finally arrested me."

That was my decision.


"Aren't you lonely?" asked Valjean, sipping the tea, now gone cold, that Toussaint had made for breakfast.

An invisible hand traced the words Aren't YOU? in the dust that had accumulated itself on the little kitchen table.

Valjean said nothing. When he at last tried to answer he received no sign that Javert was still there with him.

For six days he heard or read nothing from the dead inspector.

****

On the seventh day, Marius knocked on Valjean's door. Valjean had just awakened and Marius looked like he had never gone to sleep the previous night.

"Monsieur," murmured Marius, suddenly grasping his hand and kissing it. "You saved my life! I was so wrong. I thought you were a thief who stole the money from a respectable mayor, a killer who shot that policeman Javert, but I was wrong. And you saved my life in the sewer. You are a saint, Monsieur Valjean! Why didn't you tell me so?"

Struck by the sudden change in Marius' behaviour towards him, Valjean could only think "How?" and he had had to say it aloud. Marius made him sit on a chair, leading him with a gentle and kind grip on his hand, and started talking, almost dreamily. Tears of guilt glimmered in his eyes.

"I received a newspaper, an old newspaper and believe me, monsieur, it held wonderful news. A man–but let's not speak of him, he is a horrible man. Still, I rewarded him greatly for the information he told me."

With hasty words, Marius told Valjean of his meeting with Thénardier, of how the thief revealed to him that Valjean had always been Madeleine and that he had never killed Inspector Javert. "I don't know how he found my house, but I am glad he did because I did you wrong, monsieur. You saved my life in the sewers. Now I know."

Marius wished to hear all of Valjean’s life and his past as Mayor Madeleine, but Valjean, wordless, could only ask him to give him a little more time. "I will tell you both, you and Cosette," he promised, still confused over the entire affair.

When Marius left him, calling him ‘dear Papa’, and telling him that he would send a fiacre to collect him the next day for lunch, Valjean stood, went to kiss the candlesticks on the fireplace mantle, and sat on his bed.

"Thank you, Javert."

You were wasting sacrifice, answered a trembling finger, in the dust and ashes of the dead fire.

****

Valjean moved. Toussaint came with him to the Pontmercy home. Valjean brought his two candlesticks, the chessboard, his few clothes, and a crucifix to the room that Cosette had reserved for him in their house.

The room was beautiful and full of light. The window had a view on the garden and he could admire the flowers growing and dying back all year round. There was a fireplace where he place the two candlesticks, and Cosette, now knowing the story of his life, often admired them and seemed to thank someone under her breath.

Two months later Cosette came to him in the morning, kissed his check, and told him she was with child.

"I will call him Jean if he is a boy."

"You should call her Fantine if she is a girl," answered Jean Valjean and he told her the story of her mother, the woman who gave everything for the life of her child.

****

"Are you busy in the afterlife?" asked Valjean, while having breakfast in his new room, which he thought would always be his new room, even though he had lived there for four months already.

He repeated the question every couple of hours, waiting for an answer that did not come until the next night.

On the paper he had placed beside his bed, some words started to appear. Not doing anything. I am stuck.

"You are here, finally! It has been almost a week since the last time you talked to me."

I am dead.

"I know you are, but you helped me. Don't act as if I am a madman now because I talk to a ghost."

Maybe you are. Valjean could almost see Javert rolling his eyes at these words.

"These past months are the proof that I am not. What do you mean you are stuck? Stuck where?"

Can't go. Waiting.

"Waiting for what?"

The piece of paper remained empty. That was the last time he talked with the ghost of Javert.

****

When little Fantine's second birthday arrived, Valjean died.

He been waiting for it, his heart warm with the love of his family and yet still clouded by a sense of abandonment that he had not been able to explain.

He had waited and died in his bed, with Cosette's voice in his years, telling him of her own days as a child, like he asked of her.

****

Valjean opened his eyes. The new world around him was an echo of the old one, the one he left. 

The streets of Paris, the houses, all seemed the same - Valjean could almost recognize the places but the colours were blurry, as if a child had painted the landscape Valjean had accidentally stumbled into.

He started walking. He didn't know where he was going but he felt compelled to walk.

Hours passed, or perhaps only minutes; it was impossible to say. At last Valjean found himself on a bridge, where he could hear  the distant sound of an angry river flowing at some point below him.

A man was already standing on that bridge. Valjean was unsurprised to recognize Inspector Javert.

"Now, don't make that face. I am not going to arrest you,” Javert said.

Javert's clothes were dripping wet and so was his hair, loosened around his face as Valjean had never seen it in.There was no trace of his hat or his cane and his lips were tinged with blue. 

Valjean lowered his gaze to his own hands, curious to see if they were the same colour of cold death, but he saw the ordinary colour of warm hands, as if they were still full of life.

"You really did kill yourself." He had read about it in the newspaper, like anyone might have. "That night, when you helped me to take Marius to the hospital, you left me and went to kill yourself."

"As you can see."

"I–"

"I grow tired of your kindness. You should go. This is still Paris."

"Is this not the afterlife? Heaven?"

Javert barked a humorless laugh. "Heaven? My soul is damned. This is the Seine and Paris. But you can walk to Heaven."

"Why did you help me?" asked Valjean, incredulous. He had finally reached Javert, who was still towering over him from his superior height but seemed slouched and tired.

"I let you go free, I betrayed everything I have always believed in and you were going to waste it as if it was nothing," Javert accused him.

"I am sorry."

Javert opened his mouth again, probably ready to demand less kindness, but instead he simply shrugged and pointed to the end of the bridge where the shapes and colours were so blurry that the grey sky seemed to absorb the earth into itself.

"Now go."

"You are coming with me."

"I killed myself. I don't think it is allowed."

Valjean cared nothing for rules and laws that were not dictated by compassion.

He clasped Javert's cold hand.

"I am strong. You know me. I can take us both."