Title: Obsessed With You
Work ID: 33588385
Author: Javerts_high_heeled_boots
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Established Relationship, Madeleine Era, Javert knows Madeleine is Valjean and Madeleine knows that Javert knows he’s Valjean, Enemies to Lovers, Sort Of, more like lust to love, First Dates, Falling In Love, Sassy Javert, sassy valjean, Romani Javert, Valjean is a bit of an a-hole, But He Gets Better, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Modern Era
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

He was sick of this. Tired. Bored. He was better than this. He was worth more than this.


Javert didn’t even bother knocking on the door.
Madeleine looked up, surprised at the sudden visitor. When he saw it was the Inspector, his look softened and he leaned forward on his desk, chin resting in his hands.

“Inspector.”

“Take me out.”

“…What?”

“I said take me out.”

“…I’m not sure I understand what you mean.”

The younger of the two huffed before standing up straighter, an action which was no longer intimidating to the Mayor.

“You’re going to take me out,” demanded Javert, a slight pang of nervousness in his otherwise assertive voice, “on a date. I don’t care where, I don’t care when- but it’s going to happen.”

“Is that so,” smirked Madeleine, knowing he’d be able to get on Javert’s nerves. God, he was so arrogant.


If he was being honest, he had no clue how he fell for someone so backwards. Javert knew who Madeleine was, and Madeleine knew that he knew this. It had become some sort of sick game- flopping between a professional and passionate relationship. It was addicting. It was infuriating. He loved it and he hated it.


“I’m sick of whatever…this…is. I’m worth more than a few drunken make-outs that lead to nothing between us.”

“There’s something between us.”

“Not enough. I’m tired of being some- some ‘fling’. You say you care about me?”

“I do.”

“Then you’ll take me out.”

Madeleine leaned back in his chair, sizing the Inspector up. Javert stood completely still, biting his bottom lip in anticipation.

“Well?”

“Well?”

“What’s your answer?”

“You said I’m taking you out, no?”

“I did.”

“Then I will.”

…Well that was easier than he thought it would be.

“Really,” whispered Javert, exhaling heavily. Now he just sounded eager. He must have looked like a fool.

“Really,” nodded Madeleine, waking over to instead take a seat on his desk in front of the other man. Javert searched his face. There was no sign he was lying; and if he was, Javert would know. He’d grown to notice those things by now.

“Good.”

“And when will this be, my dear Inspector?”

“I don’t care.”

“Tonight, perhaps?”

“Tonight works.”

“Perfect. Be ready by 7:30.”

“You have my address?”

“Mhm.”

“Good.”

“Is that all?”

“That’s all.”

“Then you are dismissed.”


Did that just happen? Did that seriously just happen?

The moment Javert exited the office, he allowed himself to breath. Holy…

Tonight. 7:30. Alright, that was- he could do this. He’d be ok.

7:30 was in two hours.


Dammit, Valjean!