Title: In Our Own Way
Work ID: 14938916
Author: spaceh0und
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: pure undiluted fluff, Post-Seine, Cuddling
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
It had certainly taken time and patience, but, with a lot of both from each man, Valjean and Javert had managed to form what both would admit was a close relationship.Yes, they weren’t perfect, but they made things work in their own way.

Work text:

It had certainly taken time and patience, but, with a lot of both from each man, Valjean and Javert had managed to form what both would admit was a close relationship. It was not always easy between them - the two men had a complex history and there were things that couldn’t be ignored. Perhaps this was what made their relationship work though. They had a mutual understanding of each other that only comes when you’ve seen a man at his lowest point. So despite Valjean’s awkward silences when Javert slipped up and said something that shouldn’t have been said or the guilt that came over Javert’s face when Valjean made a remark about something the other man would rather forget, Valjean managed to get used to Javert’s odd sense of humour and came to love his strange smile and Javert learnt where Valjean’s boundaries and limits lay and even how to help him through situations that tested those limits.

Yes, they weren’t perfect, but they made things work in their own way. And when Javert rubbed his fingers over Valjean’s knuckles and pressed his lips softly to his wrists, or when he let Valjean lay his head against his shoulder as they sat together, when he would wrap his arms around Valjean and rest his chin on the other man’s shoulder or when they spent time together in Valjean’s garden when the weather was good and the sun smiled down on them, any problems between them suddenly didn’t seem to matter anymore.

And right now in a room lit with candles and firelight, with Javert’s head in his lap as the other man tipsily tried to explain the flaws with the system of paperwork at the police station, with his hands tangled in the inspector’s loose long hair as he brushed it with his fingers, Valjean couldn’t think of anywhere he’d rather be.
Yes, they made things work in their own way.