Title: Undisclosed Desires
Work ID: 17254259
Author: LawrIsNotMocked
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Javert - Freeform, valjean - Freeform, bed, Cuddling, Kissing, Fluff, Cute, Sweet, Dating, First Time, Nervous, Sappy, nice, No Sex, No Porn, Muse - Freeform, Undisclosed Desires - Freeform, Javert is sweet, valjean is shy, valjean is nervous, They love each other, Saying I Love You, Adorable
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 3/?

Summary:
Valjean spends the night with Javert for the first time, is nervous. Javert wants to exorcise the demons from Valjean's past... and satisfy the undisclosed desires in his heart. No porn, just fluff. Yes, it's inspired by the Muse song.

Work text:

Valjean sat on the edge of the bed, his leg bouncing slightly, nervously. Javert sat down next to him, very close, and took Valjean’s rough hand in his. He brought it to his lips and kissed it softly. He recognized Valjean’s nervousness. After all, they’d been dating for months, but finally tonight, Javert shyly suggested Valjean stay over. Valjean had very hesitantly agreed. So hesitantly, that Javert nearly changed his mind, and nearly told Valjean to forget he’d asked. Javert lifted his pale blue eyes from Valjean’s hand to his soft, amber colored eyes. Those eyes that Javert always adored and watched to see what they looked at. And when they noticed him watching, usually he’d blush and avert his gaze.


“Are you OK?” Javert asked, concerned. He knew this was a lot for Valjean. It was a lot for him too, but he had been the one to finally muster up the nerves to ask.



Valjean’s stare had been unfocused up until then, and he snapped back to attention. “Hm? Oh, yeah, sorry. I’m fine,” he replied, but didn’t sound too convincing. He gave a slight smile as though to back up his point. It didn’t really assure Javert.



“Are you sure? You’ve been a little quiet the past hour, and your leg is…” Javert gestured to Valjean’s bouncing leg.



“Oh!” Valjean laughed. “Yeah, it does that sometimes. I’m just, uh… a little nervous, I guess.”



Despite Valjean’s attempted cheerful demeanor, Javert kept a straight face and a serious nature (as he was wont to do anyway). He was concerned for his sweet boyfriend’s wellbeing. He wanted to make sure he was truly OK and willing to spend the night. He wanted to be sure he wasn’t forcing Valjean into a scary situation that he wasn’t ready for. Javert tended to be incredibly thoughtful that way to Valjean, though no one at work would believe he could be so caring.



“It’s OK to be nervous. I just want to make sure you’re not too nervous. I don’t want to force you into anything. You don’t have to stay, you know? We won’t do anything you don’t want to do.”



“No, no, I’m good. For real, it’s fine. I just haven’t spent the night with anyone in… well… ever.”



“Never?” Javert was genuinely surprised.



Valjean laughed again. “Yeah, seriously. Never. Why, how long has it been for you?”



Javert blushed slightly and lowered his gaze. “Actually, it’s the same for me.”



“You mean you’ve-“



“Yeah, never.”



“That makes me feel a bit better, to be honest!”



“Really?” Javert’s serious eyes rose back up to meet Valjean’s.



“Definitely. I’m surprised, though. I’d have thought you’d have been with plenty of people,” Valjean said earnestly. Javert interpreted it as a joke or sarcasm.



“Ha, thanks.” He rolled his eyes and grinned.



“No, I’m serious. You’re super sweet, you’ve got a good job, your own place, a car… and obviously you’re gorgeous.”



“Now I know you’re lying,” Javert smirked.



Now it was Valjean’s turn to become very serious. His smile dropped, his eyes locked onto Javert’s, and he raised Javert’s hand to his mouth this time, and kissed it softly. “Not lying,” he whispered.

Javert blushed, caught off guard by Valjean’s sincere compliment. The man was not used to receiving praise or kind words (except at work, when his superiors would occasionally verbally recognize Javert’s talent). His blushing only emphasized Valjean’s points, and warmed his heart to see Javert in such a state. Javert quickly cleared his throat and changed the subject.


“Well! It’s getting late, and if you’re staying over, then we ought to sleep.”



“Right.”



Javert stood up and walked over to his laundry hamper, then proceeded to take his shirt and pants off, leaving him only in a pair of black boxer briefs. He turned around and noticed Valjean hadn’t moved off the bed, but was staring at him, his face gone rather red. The sight he beheld was beautiful. Javert felt himself flush again as well.



“Sorry, did you… you can keep your clothes on, if you’d like. Or you could borrow some night clothes?” Javert realized they hadn’t discussed the clothing protocol and just assumed he’d wear what he always wore to bed. He assumed other men wore the same.



“Oh! No, you’re good! This is fine! I usually just wear my underwear to bed too, honestly.”



“Ah, OK. Great.”



Valjean slowly got up and shyly crept to the corner of the room, where he turned his back to remove his clothes, though Javert wasn’t sure why, as he would see him in a moment anyway. When he turned around again, holding his clothes, Javert noticed himself looking at a bit too long at Valjean’s mostly unclothed form. But it was spectacular. They had only seen each other shirtless once before (and they both quietly enjoyed the opportunity to see the other topless), and now they were seeing the other pantsless also.



Without giving themselves the chance to make more awkward conversation or eye contact, they went to brush their teeth, wash their faces, and generally get ready for bed. When they met back up at the bedroom shortly after, Valjean sat on the edge of the bed. Javert went to the light.



“Ready?”



“Yep.”



Javert turned off the light and climbed into the other side of the bed. He felt Valjean timidly get under the covers as well.



“You OK?”



“Yeah! Why?”



“I just want to make sure I’m not rushing things, or forcing you into doing something you don’t want.”



“You’re not. I just… yeah. Never done this, like I said. It’s not too much! Or too fast. I just especially get sort of embarrassed when I take my clothes off around others, because of the scars, you know?”



“Ahh.”



“Sorry.”



“For what?”



“If I’m acting too weird or being too shy or slow or something.”



“You’re none of those. I want you to be happy and comfortable. I want to move at whatever pace you’re comfortable at. I realized as I was taking my pants off, actually, that we had never seen each other pantsless yet. It caught me off guard and I felt all awkward for a minute, too. Like, I forgot what I was doing, almost.”



Valjean laughed. It relieved Javert to hear it.



“I guess I just feel pretty comfortable around you. Like I’ve known you forever.”



Javert could hear the smile in Valjean’s voice when he replied.



“Yeah.”



With that, Javert leaned over and kissed Valjean firmly on the lips. This, they had done plenty of times.

Still working on this! Hopefully more to come soon.

For a while, they awkwardly kept to their respective sides under the blanket. Neither was really trying to sleep, even though it was getting later and the light had been off for a while. Valjean had been soundlessly worrying about what he was 'expected' to do next or how to behave. Should they cuddle? Should they kiss again? Should he try to initiate something... more? He had never shown anyone his scars. He had never been in a relationship. He didn't feel worthy of someone, especially someone as good to him as Javert. He felt inexperienced, naive, and foolish. Javert was calm and not aggressive with romantic activities. He didn't push anything. He had constantly told Valjean not to worry and that he didn't expect him to go any faster than what he was ready for. He constantly reassured him that he wasn't going anywhere. Valjean had expected Javert had dated other people, but it was a surprise to find out tonight that he hadn't. Javert just seemed so... confident. So calm. Maybe that was just his nature.


Javert during this time had been staring out the window, eyes unfocused, but looking in the general direction of the moon and stars. His mind was wandering. He was not dissatisfied with the evening thus far. But he had hoped, if he was honest, that Valjean would permit a little bit more contact. Of course, he would continue to not push anything, to not rush anything. If anything, he was a patient, even-tempered man. Valjean was worth waiting as long as it took. Javert vaguely smiled to himself, thinking of Valjean and all his redeeming qualities. They'd only been dating for about 3 months, but they'd known each other before then. Javert felt that he honestly loved Valjean. He wasn't sure if Valjean felt the same, however, and it worried him. Perhaps in time he'd get there. He rolled over and faced Valjean's back. Valjean felt Javert move, and turned over to look at him too.



"Still awake?"



"Yeah, can't sleep. Not tired, I guess," Javert replied.



"Mm."



"And I can't stop thinking about you, to be honest."



"Oh!" Valjean nervously laughed.



"And what were you thinking about? Why aren't you asleep?" Javert playfully asked.



"Just, uh... not tired either I guess."



"Hmm," Javert hummed, contemplating this, then reached over and touched Valjean's upper arm, stroking it slowly and gently. After a moment, he quietly murmured in a low voice, "Now that we've seen each other shirtless, pantsless, and we've kissed plenty of times, how about we take it to the next level?"



Valjean involuntarily flinched. "Javert, I don't think I'm rea-"



"I mean let's cuddle. Let me just hold you." Javert smirked, having played his little joke on the clearly nervous man.



Valjean laughed, relieved. "Oh, lord. I thought you meant..."



"I wouldn't rush you. You know that."



"No, I know. You worried me there, though!"



"I know. I'm messing with ya. Now turn around. I want to put my arms around you."



Valjean happily obliged. He somewhat hesitantly backed up into Javert, whose long, lean arms wrapped around him easily. Valjean sighed, happily closing his eyes and finally relaxing against the warm, gentle touch of the inspector. He was a bit chilly, and he shivered slightly, but it wasn't completely due to the cold, he suspected. In response, Javert wrapped his arms around him tighter, snuggled up closer, and leaned his head in towards the back of Valjean's neck and shoulders, softly kissing the spot where his neck and shoulders met. When Valjean seemed a little calmer, he stroked Valjean's arm and side gently, slowly. He moved his hand up to Valjean's head and lovingly stroked his hair. It felt so good, so reassuring, so... tender and loving. Javert kissed his temple, and Valjean fell asleep very peacefully soon after. Javert stayed awake for just a few minutes longer than Valjean, watching the man sleep sweetly in his arms. It filled him with a sense of calm, a sense of joy. Javert too drifted off into a calm slumber, arm still draped over Valjean's side.