Title: Family (and then some) Bonding Time
Work ID: 26676658
Author: Goodnightsweetbugman
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy/Éponine Thénardier, Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Poor Marius is scared of his gfs parents, (as he should be lets be honest), But they all have fun, I'm not sure if this counts as crack but it is incredibly lighthearted and silly, Characters Playing Among Us (Video Game)
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
In the digital age, in the midst of the waking nightmare that is 2020, time must still be made for family. Thankfully there are plenty of ways to stay in touch- weekly Zoom calls, sharing screens for a movie night, regular texting, good old phone calls. There are so many wonderfully efficient and advanced methods of communication today.
Or you could run around killing your friends and family via colorful cartoon astronaut. That works too.

Work text:


DISCORD GROUP DM: Marius, Corset, Epipen


 

Marius: No luck, they're in a meeting

 

Epipen: all of them?

 

Marius: It's an Amis meeting, none of them want to leave.

 

Epipen: even grantaire?

 

Marius: He was the only one who answered me. He wants to stay to stare at Enjolras.

 

Epipen: valid 

 

Epipen: but we still need at least one more person to play 

 

Corset: What abt your siblings? Just invite them

 

Epipen: azelmas a terrible liar shed either give everything away or try and trust everyone 

 

Corset: What about Gavroche 

 

Epipen: do you really want to play a game based on sneaking and lying against gavroche 

 

Marius: Well when you put it like that….

 

Corset: Ok no

 

Marius: But we still need one more person to play

 

Epipen: shame we dont have any other friends isnt it

 

Marius: Wait, what about Cosette? Do you know anyone who might play with us?

 

Corset: Well…. I guess I could get a couple of people to play

 

Marius: Yay!!!

 

Epipen: fuck yeah

 

Marius: Wait 

 

Marius: Are those couple of people your dad and his weird cop

 

Corset: ……………………maybe

 

Marius: Don't you know anyone else?

 

Epipen: anyone at all??

 

Corset: Literally no 

 

Marius: Well…

 

Marius: How badly do you guys want to play?

 

Epipen: badly enough 

 

Epipen: ill host cosette you send your dad the code 

 

Corset: Ok!!!!

 

Marius: I feel like I'm about to enter a special kind of hell but ok

 

 

Dad: Hello!

 

Panini: oh **** whats up cosettes dad

 

Dad: You may call me Jean if you like

 

Panini: can i call you dad 

 

Dad: Sure

 

Baguette: Hi papa!!

 

Dad: Hi sweetie! 

 

Panini: wheres marius and javert 

 

Dad: Javert lost his glasses he'll be along soon

 

Panini: cool wheres marius 

 

Panini: oh hi marius

 

Marius: Hello!

 

Dad: Hello!

 

Baguette: Hiiii

 

Javert: Cosette said this was like Mafia, are the rules the same?

 

Panini: its mafia but you have to do chores

 

Panini: or murder depending 

 

Javert: That seems fairly straightforward.

 

Baguette: It is







 


 SHHHHHHHHHHH 


 


 THERE IS ONE IMPOSTER AMONG US 








 


 DEAD BODY REPORTED 


 

Panini: noooooooo cosette

 

Marius: Where did you find her? 

 

Panini: electrical 

 

Dad: Oh no! How did she die?

 

Panini: idk but who did it tho

 

Dad: It wasn't me, I was up shooting asteroids.

 

Marius: I was in med bay

 

Javert: I was in the room with the reactor.

 

Panini: skip?

 

Marius: Yeah

 

Dad: Alright 

 


 No one was ejected (vote skipped) 







 


 DEAD BODY REPORTED 


 

Marius: Where? 

 

Panini: where

 

Javert: In the cafeteria.

 

Panini: o ****

 

Panini: thats bold 

 

Marius: Why were you in the cafeteria though, Javert?

 

Javert: To fix the wiring.

 

Javert: I had just come from doing the same by the navigation room.

 

Panini: well i was in electrical 

 

Marius: I was by the lower engine 

 

Panini: hmmmmmmmmmmm

 

Panini: skip?

 

Marius: Ok

 

Javert: Alright.

 


 No one was ejected (vote skipped)  







 


 EMERGENCY MEETING CALLED 


 

Marius: What happened? 

 

Javert: What happened?

 

Panini: yellow acting kinda sus

 

Marius: What???

 

Javert: I did see him go through a vent earlier...

 

Panini: u didn't say anything???

 

Javert: It was before Cosette died, I didn't know that was incriminating yet.

 

Panini: how do u know now

 

Javert: Cosette told me.

 

Panini: oh 

 

Marius: It's not me guys, I haven't been anywhere near any of the bodies!

 

Panini: bc you been venting 

 

Javert: You have been. 

 

Marius: No I swear it's not me!!! 

 


 Marius was ejected. 


 Marius was not the imposter.  






 

Panini: well played javert 

 

Panini: well played

 

Javert: Thank you. 

 

Baguette: That was impressive! Especially for your first game!!

 

Dad: You were incredibly sneaky. 

 

Marius: And you accused me of venting! 

 

Javert: Eponine brought it up, I didn't want to be ejected. 

 

Baguette: He has an unfair advantage, he convinces people of things for a living. We should have known better than to let a lawyer play this game. 

 

Dad: Well, should we invite Gavroche to join, to even the odds? 

 

Marius: No

 

Panini: no 

 

Baguette: No 

 

Javert: No. 







 


 SHHHHHHHHHHH 


 


 THERE IS ONE IMPOSTER AMONG US 








 


 DEAD BODY REPORTED 


 

Panini: well i guess its not javert again 

 

Panini: f in the chat

 

Panini: f

 

Baguette: F

 

Marius: F

 

Dad: F

 

Dad: …I'm not sure what that means.

 

Marius: It's what you say when someone messes up badly, or dies.

 

Panini: press f to pay respects 

 

Dad: Oh ok I think I get it 

 

Panini: where was it

 

Dad: In the administrative room

 

Baguette: And what were you doing alone in admin with Javert, Papa?

 

Baguette: Wait don't answer that 

 

Dad: I was trying to swipe my card! 

 

Dad: Or I was going to, before I found Javert's corpse.

 

Marius: He's not lying, I saw him go in

 

Panini: hmmmmm not lookin good black 

 

Baguette: Well where were you? 

 

Panini: i was in storage 

 

Baguette: Proof

 

Panini: well where were you

 

Baguette: med bay doing the scan 

 

Panini: ****

 

Dad: You have to admit, Eponine, you don't really have an alibi.

 

Panini: but how would i get all the way to storage 

 

Marius: The vents 

 

Panini: ****

 


 Panini was ejected.  



 Panini was not the imposter. 







 

EMERGENCY MEETING CALLED 

 

Baguette: I saw Dad vent 

 

Marius: Where? 

 

Baguette: Hallway by electrical 

 

Dad: I did no such thing! 

 

Dad: I was there to turn the lights back on

 

Baguette: After shutting them off yourself? 

 

Dad: If I could have seen in the dark, would I have gone through a vent in front of you? 

 

Baguette: Maybe, esp if you were planning to kill me soon 

 

Marius: Then wouldn't he have killed you then and there, rather than turning the power back on? 

 

Baguette: Maybe

 

Baguette: Still kinda sus 

 


 No one was ejected (tie)  







 


 EMERGENCY MEETING CALLED 


 

Dad: COSETTE TRIED TO KILL ME!  

 

Marius: But you're not dead?

 

Baguette: Yeah Papa there's no attempted murder in this game

 

Dad: YOU CAME OUT OF THE CAFETERIA VENT AND CHASED ME

 

Dad: I BARELY GOT TO THE BUTTON! 

 

Baguette: Proof

 

Dad: The hospital bill from the heart attack you'll give me if you do that again.

 

Baguette: Oh **** ok. Nvm about the proof I guess. 

 

Marius: Cosette, did you try to kill M. Fauchelevent? 

 

Baguette: Idk did I

 

Dad: Patricide, I tell you 

 

Marius: Uhhhhhhh oh no

 


 Baguette was ejected. 


 Baguette was the imposter.  






 

Javert: It was a lot easier to kill everyone than to not die. 

 

Baguette: It do be like that 

 

Marius: That was pretty good!

 

Marius: You almost won

 

Panini: how do you keep living so long

 

Marius: I do my tasks and avoid everyone 

 

Dad: I try to do that too! It hasn't worked yet though 

 

Panini: you keep living too

 

Panini: when im imposter yall will be the first to go 

 

Panini: OH **** WHATS UP ENJ

 

Comred: the meeting is over 

 

Drunk: ponine sent me the code and it still works 

 

Baguette: Hi!

 

Drunk: hi 

 

Comred: wait Cosette is your dad playing?

 

Dad: Yes

 

Baguette: Yes

 

Javert: Yes 

 

Drunk: oh ****

 

Drunk: ****

 

Dad: You won't get in trouble for cursing around us 

 

Drunk: oh ok good 

 

Baguette: Now that there's so many of us, should we play with two imposters? 

 

Marius: Sure

 

Javert: I don't see why not

 

Comred: sure 

 

Panini: lemme see if i can change it

 

Panini: **** i cant 

 

Panini: im gonna kick yall out and make a new game ill send the code in a minute 

 

Dad: Wait that sounds harder 

 

Baguette: Yes

 

Dad: If there are going to be more imposters, can we at least invite Gavroche?

 

Javert: Must we? 

 

Dad: He's a sweet kid, and the odds of him being the imposter are low.

 

Panini: **** fine

 

 

Chou Chou Train: hey guys!!! 

 

Drunk: hi gav!!!!

 

Dad: Hello! 

 

Chou Chou Train: oh hi M. Jean! 

 

Chou Chou Train: man there's a lot of people here actually 

 

Panini: theres two imposters tho 

 

Panini: and i hope to god one of them isn't you 

 

Chou Chou Train: me too

 

Chou Chou Train: being imposter is boring I like tasks 

 

Panini: oh.

 

Panini: well in that case good luck

 

Javert: Will anyone else be joining?

 

Marius: I don't think so 

 

Panini: idk

 

Drunk: nah

 

Panini: cool lets get this show on the road 

 

 


 SHHHHHHHHHHH 


 


 THERE ARE TWO IMPOSTERS AMONG US 


 

 


 DEAD BODY REPORTED  


 

Baguette: Its brown 

 

Drunk: it's definitely brown 

 

Dad: That makes sense.

 

Panini: what the **** guys?? 

 

Baguette: You said when you were imposter Marius would be first to go 

 

Baguette: And lo 

 

Panini: ok but r what the ****

 

Drunk: I backread 

 

Panini: this is slander 

 

Javert: I was with Eponine in the medical bay, she couldn't have. 

 

Panini: yeah we were taking turns doing scans 

 

Baguette: **** square one

 

Comred: well where were you, black? 

 

Baguette: Electrical 

 

Comred: and where did you find the body? 

 

Baguette: Admin

 

Comred: oh

 

Comred: wait that doesn't line up 

 

Baguette: I did the wires in electrical and then went to do them in admin 

 

Drunk: gav is awfully quiet…

 

Chou Chou Train: I don't have anything to say! I was in reactor 

 

Javert: He was. 

 

Panini: yup 

 

Dad: What about Grantaire? 

 

Drunk: I was in the cafeteria I didn't see ****

 

Panini: since its not me can we skip

 

Baguette: Fine

 

Dad: Yes

 

Javert: Ok.

 

Chou Chou Train: will do

 


 No one was ejected (voting skipped) 







 

EMERGENCY MEETING CALLED 

 

Comred: I SAW BROWN VENT

 

Panini: u literally killed green in front of my eyes 

 

Chou Chou Train: rip 

 

Javert: You sure are quick to throw each other under the bus. Aren't you supposed to be a team? 

 

Panini: WERE NOT A TEAM

 

Comred: NO BC I'M NOT AN IMPOSTER 

 

Panini: YOU LITERALLY ARE I WATCHED YOU KILL R 

 

Dad: Where did all this happen? 

 

Panini: electrical 

 

Comred: electrical 

 

Baguette: I saw red near electrical but not brown 

 

Panini: how???? i was right there

 

Baguette: I was in lower engine 

 

Baguette: Kinda sus on brown's part 

 

Javert: I was with Eponine moments before she headed off to electrical, she definitely did not vent in. Or out.

 

Baguette: Neither did red 

 

Baguette: You're very quick to vouch for brown, Dad 

 

Javert: Yes, because I've been with her the whole time, making sure she doesn't kill Jean and Marius.

 

Javert: And she hasn't. 

 

Panini: ouch 

 

Javert: You're only sticking with me to give yourself an alibi 

 

Panini: ok yea

 

Panini: and it's working 

 

Baguette: You can't have both killed green or you wouldn't be trying to pin it on each other and we can't eject both of you. 

 

Chou Chou Train: I saw red vent earlier 

 

Comred: you can't have 

 

Chou Chou Train: you did you went from the cafeteria to admin then when you didn't find anything in admin you went to the hallway corner and hopped out and went on up to nav to fake doing a task and then you didn't kill me because blue was in the hallway 

 

Comred: what the ****

 

Javert: I did indeed see the two of you in navigation 

 

Comred: aha then where was brown 

 

Javert: Up in weapons 

 

Panini: can confirm  

 

Chou Chou Train: the only reason me and blue are alive right now is the cooldown is longer than it would have taken him to run over from o2 and report my body 

 

Comred: what the absolute ****

 

Comred: would it be worth it to say that he's lying 

 

Baguette: No

 


 Comred was ejected. 



 Comred was an imposter. 



 1 imposter remains.  







 


 DEAD BODY REPORTED 


 

Panini: in the aaaaaaarms of the angel

 

Chou Chou Train: fly awaaaaaaaaayyyyy

 

Panini: poor, sweet cosette

 

Chou Chou Train: taken from us so young 

 

Panini: she contributed much. she repaired many wires and turned the o2 back on

 

Chou Chou Train: she now lies resting, her body cleft in twain, on the floor of the communications room

 

Panini: may her soul rest forever in peace. 

 

Dad: Amen. 

 

Javert: Gavroche is seeming very knowledgeable about the imposter's movements, and now he reports Cosette's body.

 

Javert: It's quite possible he's reporting himself. 

 

Chou Chou Train: I wasn't even going to go into communications until I saw blacks body

 

Chou Chou Train: and I ran into brown on the way but she was going in my direction 

 

Chou Chou Train: you're quick to cast blame though 

 

Chou Chou Train: kinda sus 

 

Javert: If I were an imposter I would have killed Eponine by now, no? 

 

Chou Chou Train: idk maybe it's your strategy 

 

Panini: weve been together the whole time

 

Chou Chou Train: you've split up to do tasks 

 

Panini: barely 

 

Chou Chou Train: kinda sus

 


 No one was ejected (tie) 







 

DEAD BODY REPORTED 

 

Panini: ok now we KNOW its gav 

 

Chou Chou Train: Where was it

 

Panini: nav

 

Panini: which you know **** well 

 

Chou Chou Train: I was nowhere near nav 

 

Chou Chou Train: I was doing fuel 

 

Chou Chou Train: where was M. Jean? 

 

Dad: I was doing the cafeteria wires. 

 

Chou Chou Train: so it must have been a self report 

 

Chou Chou train: now that everyone else is gone and you don't need that alibi anymore

 

Chou Chou Train: he was an easy target 

 

Panini: you sure know a lot about it. 

 

Chou Chou Train: Well I wasn't the one near it was I 

 


 Chou Chou Train was ejected.  



 Chou Chou Train was not the imposter. 







 


DISCORD GROUP DM: Marius, Corset, Epipen


 

Epipen: i wouldn't have expected it but wow 

 

Epipen: @Corset your dads are really good at video games 

 

Epipen: I can't believe m. jean had gav and i at each others throats like that without getting himself suspected 

 

Epipen: thats talent 

 

Corset: Honestly it's probably only this game, it plays to their skill sets.  

 

Corset: For Dad, catching people in lies, for Papa not getting caught lying 

 

Marius: Family reunions must be fun

 

Corset: My whole family is dead 

 

Marius: Oh yeah 

 

Marius: Same hat 

 

Epipen: god i wish that was me 

 

Corset: With enough time and dedication you can make it so your whole family is effectively dead to you 

 

Corset: But keep Gav. We love Gav. 

 

Epipen: they're already dead to him that won't be too hard 

 

Marius: I cannot believe I'm gonna say this but 

 

Marius: Cosette, do you think your dads would want to play Among Us again?

 

Marius: That was fun.

 

Marius: More fun than the Amis's games

 

Epipen: hell yeah ask them

 

Epipen: i love your dads 

 

Corset: I absolutely will ask them

 

Corset: but they're gonna want to. I could tell they had fun. 

 

Epipen: we love video games that allow you to kill and incriminate your friends and family in a safe and constructive way 

 

Corset: Not sure I'd call it constructive 

 

Epipen: if among us doesnt bring you closer together your relationship is a lost cause 

 

Corset: Forget Uno this is the ultimate game of betrayal 

 

Marius: Should we plan to play again tomorrow?

 

Corset: Yeah I think that would be good. 

 

Corset: But I have a ton of studying to do before then so I gotta go to sleep

 

Epipen: fuck me too and i have work in the morning 

 

Marius: I'm just tired 

 

Epipen: love you both

 

Marius: love you too

 

Corset: love you too 

 

Corset: goodnight <3

 