Title: Charity Work
Work ID: 26982844
Author: Id_unfuck_you_if_i_could (Puggod21)
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert, Javert & Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Valjean - Relationship
Additional Tags: Angst with a Happy Ending, Angst, Angst and Hurt/Comfort, Implied/Referenced Child Abuse, Past Abuse, Past Child Abuse, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Hurt/Comfort, Parenthood, Kid Fic, Enemies to Friends to Lovers, Fatherhood, Gay, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Eventual Javert/Jean Valjean, SocialWorker!Valjean, Dad Javert
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

Summary:
"Valjean?"
The man turned and face the inspector, "Javert!" He walk up and shook his hand, 
"You're the social worker!?"______________
In Which Valjean works for children protection services and Javert doesn't understand. (I'm very bad at summaries)

Work text:

 "Jesus Christ."

The rest of the house had been in tip top condition. Having been clean frequently by its young inhabitants at the command of Thenardier. The only room that had been neglected was the children's own room.  The place reeked of cat urine and was covered in trash. He prodded his baton at the molded bubble that had form on the ceiling, stepping back as the bubble burst, expelling sour water on to the stain carpet. The room held a poorly made loft bed with a extra mattress underneath. Besides it was a small nightstand that had a desk lamp set on top of it, and that was it. No toys, television, clothes, not any thing to indicate that the children were really even cared for.

He sighed, and turn to exit the depressing scene. Then He heard it, a small, weak cry from down the hallway. He slowly walked down the hallway, listening for the cries. Once more the cries broke through, encouraging Javert to pick up his pace. The cries were coming from what he assumed to be the Thenardier's room, The door was lock. "Gendarmerie nationale, Open up or I will do so with force!" He called out. After only hearing more muffled cries, He rammed into the door knocking it clean off it's hinges. He looked around the room to see that no had been in there. Suddenly he heard small voices coming from the closet,

 "Cosette! Quite him down before they find us!"

 "I'm trying, Éponine, But he terrified and wet! He won't stop until we get out of here!"

Javert ripped open the Closet door, seeing only a few jackets and belts. He look down to see a small carpet, kicking it away he discovered a small makeshift door, a crawlspace! He crouched down and pulled the small handle, pulling out his flashlight. Setting the door aside he was greeting with what looked like a fake bottom. He growled, and stomp the fake bottom, causing it to completely break through. A wave of screams filled his ears. He duck his head into the hole flashing his flashlight.

 "Oh my god"

He was greeted by five small faces, staring at him in horror. The oldest looked to be about eight, she also was the cleanest and was probably the most well cared for. The others with filthy, their hair unkempt, their finger nails long, and from the looks, hadn't had new clothes in years. The youngest didn't even look a year old, but it seem impossible to tell due to how malnourished they looked. He was in shocked, never had he seen any like this in his entire career. The infant started to wail again, pulling him out of his state of shock. He pulled himself up and grabbed his radio,

"Commander, I need ASE, stat."