Title: The Edge of Morality
Work ID: 27961337
Author: barricadedestroyer
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Angst and Hurt/Comfort, Suicide Attempt, Implied/Referenced Suicide, Post-Seine, Injury Recovery, Recovery, Moral Dilemmas, Slow Burn, Implied Relationships, Disabled Character, Post-Barricade, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, This is the first fic I've wrote in a while go easy on me, Spoilers, Black Javert, Period-Typical Racism, Internalized racism, Attempt Recovery
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 8/?

Summary:
Javert miraculously survives his fall into the river Seine and is rescued by none other than Jean Valjean. However, his fall leaves him severely injured and unable to continue his normal everyday life. He must now rely on the only willing carer he can find - the man who rescued him.

Work text:

Javert stares down into the swirling depths, the dizzying fall below him seemingly swallowing his mind, like a predator engulfing its prey. This is it. The point of no return. His inner sense of self-preservation is screaming at him, begging him to step back, turn around, and return back to the station where he belongs. Where he fits in. Where everything used to make sense. 

But that isn’t the case. Not anymore.

Should he just find the willpower to put his foot just far enough over the edge, it’d all be over. The moral anguish plaguing his mind, searing him like a white-hot branding iron, inside and out...would be over. He breathes deeply, trying to regain some kind of clarity of thought, but with the vivid, violent imagery of everything he has seen over the last few days it is nigh impossible. The Inspector’s mind vanishes beneath a cloud of mist and uncertainty. Nothing makes sense anymore, does it? He’s trapped. He’s trapped because this time, there is no moral path to take. If he lets Jean Valjean free, he abandons the very foundation of his moral compass for as long as he can remember; if he returns to his post, and sets out to arrest the man who freed him, he continues to uphold the injustices he has witnessed kill so many - not to mention, depriving a fundamentally good man of his liberty.

But it makes no sense! No, it can’t be! Jean Valjean is a criminal, and nothing more. A criminal, once he has committed his crime, is a criminal before he is anything else. Once a thief, always a thief. There are people whose moral convictions, whose ways of life, are so deeply ingrained into the very fabric of their identity, that to stray from them would be simply unthinkable. And yet, here is Jean Valjean: an old convict, no doubt, acting in a way that the Inspector could only describe as...good. Merciful. Kind. It just doesn’t make sense. 

Javert closes his eyes, sighing deeply, and once again his thoughts are filled with red. The flag. The flash of gunfire. Blood. So, so much blood. On both sides. He, at once, sees the bodies of his fallen fellow officers, littering the street as plentiful as droplets on a window pane during a thunderstorm, and the doll-like, glassy-eyed stare of the young street urchin who fell to his own men’s gunfire. He, in his own way, in his own mind, is guilty of every single one of these murders. He, the paragon of virtue and righteousness, had allowed these atrocities to occur. How can he call himself a tool of justice in such circumstances, when he has failed his most basic duty: his duty to the people. 

He opens his eyes once more, and looks down. What else is there to do, at this point? When there is no moral path left to walk, then the only truly righteous thing left to do is surrender one’s place in the problem - in life - completely. Suicide may be a sin, but not so grave a sin as persisting in such an unjust and cruel world. And so, as he continues to gaze out into the merciless abyss of the current beneath him, he hoists himself up onto the railing, the line between life and death, and turns to face the black and cold stars once more.

He falls backwards, all at once, and plummets at an astounding speed towards the rushing Seine below. An audible crack echoes in the air as his back hits the weir jutting out of the water, and everything goes dark.

So goes the end of the honourable Inspector Javert - or, at least, what should have been...

As light once again fills the Inspector’s vision, he supposes for a moment that he is dead.

At first, there is nothing but a dim glow to the right of his vision. He can feel something covering his chest and legs, and there is an oddly soft weight around his shoulders. The room is warm, but his skin still feels cold. Time around him seems slow, like a carriage attempting to drive through a particularly thick mud. It is as if he is, at once, both awake and asleep. There is no pain, just a dull ache around his ribs and back.

So this is the afterlife, he thinks, what a bizarre existence - but, of course, no more bizarre than a world where a criminal can be a good man.

He closes his eyes again, once more, trying to collect himself and focus on his surroundings. When he opens them again, he can see a little more: heavy white covers pulled over his body, the moving shadows cast by a small, hesitant flame burning on a candle on the bedside table, and the faded green wallpaper peeling ever so slightly where it meets the crown molding. Everything is silent, apart from the ticking of a large grandfather clock by the corner and his own faint, shallow breathing, in and out, like a metronome ticking in time with the rise and fall of his chest.

But wait, if he’s dead, then why is he breathing?

He tries once again to recollect everything that happened. He had been at the barricade, yes, that had happened. He had been captured by those revolutionaries - that young boy had recognised his face, and ‘les amis’ had responded by knocking him out and restraining him in rope, kept like some sort of prisoner of war. He was going to be executed, and then...then he arrived.

The criminal. Jean Valjean. He had swept in, the man of the hour, and feigned executing him, before setting him free. And then...he had met him again, some time before the bridge. He had one of them on his back, badly wounded and covered in dirt. It would be a miracle if the boy did not die from infection. Javert had every chance to capture Valjean then, but it would’ve resulted in certain death for the boy he carried with him. He let them go. Both of them. And then all of a sudden, he was on the bridge, and it was as if someone had extinguished the stars and the world had gone black.

Abruptly, the memory cuts out, and a sudden sense of unprecedented panic seizes his throat, the likes of which he’d never felt before. His skin is alight with an unbearable itch he can’t scratch, and his previously calm (albeit shallow) breathing quickens and becomes more akin to that of a prey outrunning a predator, panting with abject terror and adrenaline coursing like liquid fire through his veins. This feeling of intense anxiety is alien to Javert. He has always been cool and in control, but that feeling is completely lost to him at this moment. He grasps at the covers in a desperate attempt to ground himself and get his thoughts under control, but to no avail. In his panicked state, he does not hear the muffled sound of footsteps approaching, nor the low, hushed voices speaking in a low tone outside the door.

When the door clicks open, Javert barely even registers the noise. His mind is far too preoccupied with the rush of hurried thoughts coursing through him like the fast-running rapids of the Seine itself. All at once, it’s as if he’s once again plunged into icy cold water, awake this time, struggling desperately against the currents, but all in vain as he sinks into the deep, endless murky depths. He’s drowning in his own fears, with no lifeboat in sight. His hands fly to his hair, frantically grasping and pulling at it, his slightly unkempt and uncut nails scratching his scalp as he does so.

The figure, unseen to the Inspector, who has entered the room, quickly sets aside the tray he was carrying and comes to the side of the distraught officer, unhesitatingly taking hold of his hand, perching on the edge of the bed, his other hand resting reassuringly on Javert’s shoulder, trying to calm him down. He brushes over the man’s hair, shielding him slightly from his own violent, agitated hands. He brings the panic-stricken Inspector closer to his chest, resting his head against his own shoulder, and rocking ever so slightly. He hushes him much the way a mother might a crying child, and after a few minutes Javert seems to calm - well, at least enough to stop hyperventilating.

He takes a deep breath, and looks up for the first time since the man entered the room, and immediately instinctively cries out. Even in his overwrought state, there’s no mistaking that face. That face he has known so long, granted, aged and wearing no small amount of grief and pain, but nonetheless unmistakable: the firm but concerned expression, the rough stubble around his thinly pressed pink lips, that strong jawline, the graying curls that cling to his furrowed brow...no, there was no mistaking Jean Valjean.

Javert feels the ex-convict’s hand against his face, first feeling his cheek, then moving to his forehead. When he speaks, the noise that comes from his mouth is so gentle he scarcely recognises the tone. Valjean had always had such a fierce, spirited tone, but something in him has changed this time. His voice is soft and almost concerned, like he is speaking with a child lost in a wood, or as if he were addressing a sick woman on her deathbed. It stirs a sense of unease in the Inspector.

“You’ve warmed up quite a bit, thank the Heavens. I had begun to believe you might never regain your normal temperature. How do you feel?”
Javert is silent a minute before attempting to reply, but is unable to find his voice among the rush of emotion in his head. He isn’t really sure what he’d say in any event. He’s still just barely conscious of the happenings of the world around him, and the dull ache he experienced earlier has become more intense.
“No, I think, actually…” Valjean continues, moving ever so slightly closer, “you best not strain yourself with addressing me right now, Monsieur l'Inspecteur. You need not worry, I do swear by God and the stars under His command that no harm will come to you under my care. Rest now, in peace. I shall stay with you awhile too, I think, if it does not concern you too much. You will be alright now. I promise.”

And for some strange, unknowable reason, Javert believes him. Perhaps it is the sudden wave of fatigue that has crashed over him following his earlier panic, or the shock of waking in what he can only presume to be the residence of the man he has so long pursued, but he finds himself lulled back beneath the veil of sleep once again before long, and slumbers restfully.

I apologise for the delay in update. The holiday season has left me with little time or energy for writing, but better late than never.

Just as a brief note, this chapter and a few others may make reference to events only in the book as opposed to the musical. 

 Happy New Year, everyone.

When he saw the Inspector on the bridge, Jean Valjean immediately knew something was off. The last time he had seen him, Valjean had still had an unconscious Marius Pontmercy slumped over his shoulder, and had just emerged from the sewer. Naturally, Javert had been there, lying in wait like a tiger does for its prey. Only this time, something was different. There had been something in Javert’s eyes that Valjean had never seen before: anxiety, indecision, doubt. It rendered him barely recognisable under the faint light of the moon. There languished within the Inspector a certain sense of moral anguish that ran contrary to what Valjean had always known of the earnest, authoritarian officer who never questioned orders or hesitated in matters of the law. Once Javert knew he had his man, he was as relentless as the bloodhound who stalks out the deer in the forest; his nose for justice was far too keen to be dulled by petty questions of morality, and yet...



Nevertheless, Valjean could not let himself become too distracted at that time. The boy he had rescued from the barricade was growing weaker by the minute, and much more exposure to the grime of the Parisian streets would surely induce life-threatening infection. He had already endured the filth of the sewers; any more would surely kill him. And so, when the Inspector had threatened his life, Valjean had still not hesitated. He walked away with the Pontmercy boy still on his back with an almost callous disregard in that moment for his own safety - all that mattered was that Cosette’s love was returned to her. Valjean knew he was old. He would not be around to look after his beloved Cosette forever, and the years of arduous labour in Toulon had surely shortened his life already. Cosette, his sweet flower, his only glimmer of hope among the sea of hardship and pain, deserved someone to look after her. She was a delicate soul, Valjean thought, and deserved the very best in life. He had done all he could to provide this for her, but now it was time to step aside and let someone else take over that wonderful duty. Marius, Valjean knew, despite his young naivete and lack of experience in the world, loved Cosette just as dearly as he did. He would look after her well. 

 

Once he had safely returned the boy to an infirmary, he paused a moment to sigh a breath of relief, only to find he still could not quite relax. Even as he had completed his duty and done all he could for his daughter’s beau, still a sense of unease gnawed at the edge of his mind. A feeling of dread washed over his being, like cold, tumultuous currents over a drowning man. Still, a concrete explanation of this feeling eluded him. The feeling, he was certain, was unrelated to Pontmercy’s condition - of course, he was anxious about the wellbeing of the boy, but the deep feeling of trepidation in his soul was something much darker, a much more unknown quantity. 

 

Perhaps, he thought to himself, he simply needed to clear his mind with a stroll. He had seen a lot these last few days, had seen far too many young lives cruelly snuffed out. It would put a strain on any person’s conscience, regardless of political affiliations. Valjean had not considered himself a revolutionary by any meaning of the word, but those boys at the barricade had no ill intent. They had died in pursuit of a better world, only for all their efforts and sacrifice to be in vain. He had seen their faces. He had seen the panic and fear on their faces as they witnessed their friends fall all around them, had heard their screams as they suffered various terrible fates. They were only boys after all, and what boy isn’t afraid to die? From what he had seen, he knew too well there would be no survivors among those he had left when he descended into the sewers. 

 

As he walked, Valjean had to wonder if those who had led the charge against the barricade felt any guilt for their part in the whole affair. There had to be some moral men among them, surely? Religion compels one to a strong sense of morality, so how can it be that such a person can kill without thought? Those revolutionaries had to have families, wives, friends. What would come of them now? Valjean made a mental note to himself to make rounds to visit the families of the bereaved and make donations where necessary. Perhaps such an act of altruism would calm his own guilt, somewhat. But that would be later - both he and they required time to process before such acts could occur. 

 

Whilst he thought of the families of those involved, and the conscience of man, his mind briefly turned for a moment, to the Inspector he had left near the bridge. Valjean had almost no doubt that if no other guardsman or officer felt guilt for the events of the uprising, Javert certainly felt  something. He had left the policeman alone under the swelling grey clouds of the Paris night sky with a changed soul, he was sure of it. But Javert, so rigid and relentless in his beliefs, would surely struggle with such a revelation. What would he do now? Could he continue to serve the police now he had borne witness to the injustices it upheld? He was a just and righteous man by nature; to disturb his morality in such a way almost seemed dangerous to the Inspector’s very essence. 

 

By this time, Valjean had reached the riverside. As he traversed its length, he looked down into the murky, choppy water. Even in June, it had to be freezing cold. He wondered for a moment how many unfortunate souls had met their end in those gloomy depths, and then how many were deliberate. Sure, suicide was a sin, but a soul so tormented could not truly be blamed for their actions. In the distance, as he looked up again once more, the thought still resonating in his mind, he saw a tiny figure standing by the ledge of the bridge. They were but an ant dwarfed by the magnitude of the night’s dark, but still, something in Valjean’s soul knew exactly who he was looking at, and that feeling of dread began churning within him again, making him feel nauseous. He wouldn’t, would he…?

 

He wasn't left to wonder much longer. 

 

As he watches the Inspector fall from the ledge, something primal awakens within him and it’s all he can do to repress a loud cry. Immediately, surging with adrenaline, he bursts forward with inhuman speed and strength, reaching the closer bank of the river in less than a minute, and quickly stripping himself of his clothing, retaining only his drawers as he dove headfirst and without hesitation into the water.

 

It’s the biting cold that hits his body first, surging through him like a shockwave. It’s not the first time he’s fallen into cold water, but this is something different. The first time, when he faked his death in the prisoner’s camp, it had been a shock, but his will to escape had carried him through. This was something else entirely. Tiny icicles pierced every inch of his exposed skin like needles. It took everything in him not to instantly seize up, but he bit back his instincts furiously as he forced his arms, stinging viciously with the cold, to make circular motions. In the dark, it was hard to spot the Inspector, and it felt like forever before Valjean spotted a dark humanoid shape in the water. He thrashed his way through the tumultuous currents, using all his strength to pull the shape towards him and against his body. Then, kicking onto his back, he attempted to make his way towards the shallowest edge of the river bank. 

 

It took multiple heaves for Valjean to finally pull himself and the Inspector out of the river. When they were both finally free of the deathly grasp of the Seine, the ex-convict allowed himself a moment of respite, still clutching the policeman’s cold body to his person. He had no idea of the Inspector’s state at this point, or if he even still lived. He had seen the man fall, and hit his back at a particularly brutal angle on the edge of a weir. If nothing else, his back was at least likely broken. But that was the least of his troubles at that moment in time. He did not know if the man he currently held in his arms would ever wake up, let alone move with the dexterity he had prior his fall. 

 

Still breathing rapidly, he fumbled for the Inspector’s pulse, but felt nothing. Could it be that his fingers were too numb to feel, or was the man already gone? He had no idea. Valjean had another idea: he placed his finger just below the other man’s nose, and put his head to his chest, listening frantically for any sign of breath. Nothing. Now he allowed himself to panic; there had to be some way to revive him! He had seen him alive less than five minutes ago on the bridge... 

 

Bringing Javert level with his chest, he massaged the man’s back, patting him a few times before laying him out flat on his back. He vaguely recalled hearing about some technique that a mother in Montreuil-sur-Mer had told him about during his days as Monsieur Madeleine that could be used to revive recently drowned children. Desperately trying to recall as he moved, and knowing he had no time to pause for recollection, he lightly pressed the heel of his hand into the Inspector’s chest, compressing his chest rhythmically, periodically stopping to lean down and listen to his chest. Not feeling much response, Valjean instead tilted the man’s chin up, pinched his nose lightly and pressed his mouth over Javert’s. Ordinarily, the gesture might’ve felt strange, wrong, even perverted, but in circumstances such as these he gave the notion no thought. His only thought is of  saving  the man who has hounded him his entire life. He breathed into the Inspector’s mouth twice before returning to his chest compressions, repeating the cycle at least ten times, maybe more, his hope fading with each repetition. 

 

After another cycle, Valjean sat back, resigned. There was nothing more he could do. Realizing that the man’s clothes were probably freezing cold clinging to his wet skin, he gently removed his uniform, pulling his own cast-aside coat around him, and hugged him close, feeling hopeless tears prick the corner of his eyes. He wasn’t quite sure why the whole thing affected him so deeply. He had never been especially close to Javert. In fact, he was fairly sure the man hated him. But all the same, he hadn’t deserved such an end. Ultimately, he was an honest man in vigorous pursuit of his duty. What wrong had he truly done? After all, Javert was many things, but cruel was not one of them. Some took his tenacity and relentless loyalty to the law as such, but Valjean knew the man better. His desire for a just world had ironically blinded him to the injustice that surrounded him every day, but that was not his fault. Valjean would forgive him again, if he had to. 

 

Wanting to save the Inspector the indignity of his body being left unclothed and soaked on the street, he gently lifted the man in his arms, carrying him the way a husband might have carried his newly-wedded wife. It’s at this point he became aware of the chill spreading throughout his own body. He’d surely suffer himself if he did not get inside soon, too. He quickly collected both of their clothes, and made his way quickly back towards his apartment. 

It didn’t take him long to get back, but to Valjean, it was hours before he felt the relief of indoor warmth. He retired quickly to his room, lighting the fireplace and placing the limp Inspector down on his bed. It wasn’t long before he too had crawled into the same bed, having found himself insurmountably tired upon even the sight of his bedroom. He didn't even have time to change into his nightclothes before he crashed underneath the covers, drawing Javert’s body against his own in hope of, by some miracle, sharing some body heat between the two of them.

 

However, it was not until he felt the ever so slight flutter of the other man’s pulse beneath his fingers that Valjean truly felt at rest, finding himself quickly consumed by a much needed wave of sleep not long afterwards. 

A note I don't think I've mentioned before: I usually like to write Javert as Black because I believe it adds to the story. 

Any negative attitudes expressed towards those of a BAME background in this writing are not opinions held by myself, but simply an expression of attitudes that may have been held at the time. 

Furthermore, there's no real substantial plot points in this chapter - it serves simply to further develop characters and relationships between characters.

That's all for now. Enjoy.


When he awakes once more, Javert is alone again. He rubs the sleep that has collected in the corner of his eyes from his vision and attempts to lift himself into a sitting position. His body feels heavy, as if someone had tied weighted disks to his lower half. His ribs and back still throb with an aching pain, but it is nothing unbearable, as things stand. He leans back a minute, trying to collect his thoughts and willpower before once again trying to hoist himself up. He manages to prop himself about halfway up on his pillows before his strength gives out. Evidently his fall has impacted his stamina and muscle. Huffing loudly, he resignedly rests his head against the headboard of the bed. It isn’t a comfortable position, but at least he’s not laid there like a useless lump of a human being anymore. 


 



This is most inconvenient, 

he thinks to himself, 

how am I to do my duty if I cannot lift myself up?



 


But would he even be able to go back to his job, now? Javert had never been a prideful man - in fact, he believed most pride to be foolish and sinful - but the one thing he had harboured any degree of pride in was his profession. He had done it. He, Javert, had managed to beat the odds, beat the circumstances of his upbringing, and break the cycle of crime that he seemed doomed to repeat had he not taken up his post. His parents were criminals, too. His mother was a fortune teller, and his father from the galleys. In that he felt naught but shame. Their influence (

and appearance

, he thinks bitterly to himself) had made Javert’s journey through the ranks a long and arduous one. His superiors in Toulon, back in his days as a prison guard, had not taken kindly to having a dark-skinned man among their ranks (Javert’s own mother had been a dark-skinned Romani, and his father originally a French African man) and as such had treated him less than favourably. It had taken him decades, then, instead of the comparably shorter time of his lighter-skinned peers, to be promoted all the way to Inspector. But all the same, he had made it. Could he really abandon all that hardship, all that tireless work now? Would they even take him back, after the biting comments he had made in the note he had left at the station?






This constant swirling in his head has once again rendered the Inspector lost in thought. He is so lost, in fact, that yet again he does not hear the sound of another person entering the room until they are directly within his eyesight. It’s a different person this time, a girl. She’s blonde and petite, with a slim frame and a kind but determined expression that reminded him eerily of the expression Valjean had worn earlier. Where was he, anyway? He had said that he intended to stay with Javert a while, and yet he is nowhere to be seen. Not that he cares, Javert reminds himself firmly, he could come and go as he pleased. He had let him go; it is no longer his duty to apprehend the man. 






The blonde girl approaches closer, so that Javert can see her face more clearly. He has seen the girl before, definitely. It takes him a moment to place her face, but eventually he ascertains that the young woman standing before him is Cosette, Jean Valjean's adopted daughter. She seems to be peering intently at the Inspector a while, not speaking a word. Is she afraid of him, Javert wonders? It takes him a minute to realise that it is likely she is not staring at Javert himself, but at his...state. He realises for the first time now his state of undress - he has only a coat around his shoulders - and his normally tightly pulled back hair has sprung back into its natural afro-like position. Quickly embarrassed by his state, Javert pulls the covers further up to his chest, and looks around for a hair tie. Cosette simply giggles, clearly somewhat amused by the frantic fumbling of the Inspector.






“Papa still has your hair tie, I believe,” she says, with a knowing smile, “he took all your clothes. He said that it wasn’t good for you to wear wet clothes when you were already so cold.”



Javert blinks a minute, before sighing deeply. Of course the old fool would take his uniform and leave him only a coat - 

Valjean’s coat, 

he realises now

 - 

and then send in a young woman to attend to him. Instinctively, he draws the coat closer around him. He wants to cover as much of his bare form as he can. He should respond, he knows, but his voice still feels hoarse and raspy. He’s unsure he could produce any sound even if he tried. However, seeing the girl’s expectant, bright face, he feels an obligation to acknowledge her in some way. 


 


“...I see.” Javert's voice comes out quiet, barely a whisper. He’s ashamed by the hesitance and authority his voice lacks when he speaks, but Cosette looks happy just to have received a response. He supposes Valjean likely forewarned his daughter of his temperament. He brings his hand up to his forehead, massaging his temples. What is he supposed to do now? Valjean still has his clothes, and his own strength continues to fail him. In addition, his body continues to grow weak from its lack of sustenance, as it comes to his attention now that he had not eaten since before he jumped. It would likely be impossible to feed him whilst he was unconscious, and Javert has no idea how long this was. It could have been days since he has last eaten. 






As if sensing this, Cosette peers at him curiously. “Is something the matter, Monsieur? You look as if you have something on your mind.” 



Javert grumbles quietly, his voice once again scarcely a croak. “How long was I...out?”



Her face takes a more neutral expression, as if she’s trying to work something out in her head. It’s when she begins counting on her fingers that Javert realises he has likely been unconscious longer than he had originally thought. 



“About three and a half days,” she tells him, “Papa was worried you might never wake up. He’s been fussing over you non-stop, but he won’t tell me anything about you…”


 


Javert once again grumbles to himself. Of course Valjean’s daughter was inquisitive. It is only naturally when her father is such a shady figure, who Javert could only imagine had done all he could to prevent her from learning his true identity. How he managed this he had no idea; Valjean had likely assumed multiple aliases over the years, and Cosette had been in his company now for almost a decade. It cannot have been easy to get a child to comply with such secrecy, and she must have had questions. Javert knows too well a child deprived of answers all their life will naturally become a very inquisitive person. His own parents had told him little of the world, save that some people were poor, and others were rich. That’s just the way things were - some people were just better than others, and they were not one of those people. Javert should accept this, and not seek to better his station. Naturally, he had ignored this, but did not find that his parents were entirely clueless. Now he saw the world for what it is, he realises all the more that they were right, but not in the way that they had expected to be. Some people are born into wealth, and never have to lift a finger. Others are born disadvantaged and poor, and therefore are drawn into crime for survival. The former are the better, because they never have the obligation to be the worse.


 


“I’m hungry,” the dishevelled Inspector replies, “I have eaten nothing for a long time. I have not been capable of it.”



“Ah, of course! Papa did bring in some soup for you earlier, but you must’ve both fallen asleep before you had a chance to eat it…”




So he did stay after all, 

Javert thinks, 

he must have woken before me.




He turns back to Cosette. “Evidently. I would have some water too, if you please. I find my throat quite hoarse.”



Cosette says nothing more, simply nods quickly and scurries out of the room like a skittish kitten, closing the door behind her. 






Javert looks up to the ceiling. It was likely once a pleasant cream colour, but the colour has faded in places like an uneven patchwork. He runs his hands through his hair almost anxiously, pulling at the coiled strands. His hair isn’t meant to be out of its tie. Out of tie was out of uniform, his superiors had made that much clear. Even when he slept he preferred to cover it. Not that it matters now, he supposes. It’s unlikely he would be able to work again even if the police agreed to take him back. It seems unlikely to him, nevertheless, that they would want him to resume his employment. He had spoken out of turn and criticised the practice of those above him by calling for the better treatment of prisoners. Still, he doesn’t regret it. True, the decision might have been spur of the moment and motivated by no small amount of emotion, but what he wrote he meant sincerely. If there are other men out there, men like Jean Valjean, then surely such harsh punishment is undue. It still baffles him, of course, the contradiction between Valjean’s criminal status and the moral decision-making of a good man, but who is he to question that? Clearly it is God who has led him to this revelation. Clearly it is Him who has assured that his path crossed again and again with this man, and has shown him the truth of the world. Is Valjean, then, some sort of saint? The idea makes his head hurt, so he decides to put it out of his mind.


 


His peace of mind is short-lived, as it isn’t long before he is disturbed again. This time, however, his caller knocks. Javert makes a vague noise of acknowledgement before Valjean walks in, approaching Javert with a tray. 



“Good evening, Inspector. Did you sleep well?” he asks, regarding him in a manner so casual it is as if they had been close friends their whole life. Javert simply grunts in response. 



“Still not feeling too talkative then, I presume?” he smiles slyly, “Ah, but my Cosette told me that you spoke to her. Is it just me that you are not willing to speak to, then?”



Javert looks up at him, conjuring as cold an expression as he can to regard the old convict. Something in his mind will simply not allow him to act in a familiar manner. It’s true, he had known Valjean years, but they had never been anything resembling friends. Even as Monsieur Madeleine, Javert had always harboured a certain distrust towards the man. It is a queer thing now for him to lay in the other man’s bed, whilst he attends his need. 


 


Valjean sits beside the bed, sinking into a plush-looking chair, and gently resting the tray he had brought on Javert’s lap. Javert does not eat immediately, but the temptation is strong. The soup that Valjean has brought him smells good, and he suspects will taste even better. Then again, he thinks to himself, wouldn’t anything after three days of starvation? His mind once again turns back to old encounters, this time to the galleys. Valjean had claimed he stole the bread that earned him his stay in Toulon to feed his sister’s starving children. Were they as hungry then as he is now? It’s a conflicting thought, and Javert is almost put off from his food. 

Almost.











“It isn’t poisoned, you know.” Valjean chides gently, “If I wanted to harm you, Inspector, then why would I have spared your life at the barricade? Why would I have pulled you from the Seine? ” 



At the mention of the Seine, Javert flinches. It takes all his willpower not to lose himself again as he did the last time he thought about his fall, and those endless black depths. It feels, now, like that is his constant state of being: trying desperately to keep his head above the deep unknown waters, knowing if he falters or panics that he will inevitably sink again. Had he even been rescued at all? 


 


Seeing the anguished look on his face, Valjean relents a little, bringing his chair closer still to the bed and laying a hand on his shoulder (which he cannot help but notice Javert flinches away from) before speaking again. 



“You can speak to me, you know, if there is something on your mind. I truly don’t wish you any harm. In fact, quite the opposite: I rather wish to help you recover, but such a feat will be difficult if you refuse to open up to me.”



Javert closes his eyes, speaking quietly but curtly. “I have nothing to say to you.”



Valjean shakes his head, much the way a mother might disapprovingly shake her head at a mischievous child. “Monsieu-” he appears to catch himself mid-word. “Javert.”


 


The use of his name catches the Inspector’s attention, and Valjean knows it. It is his intention, after all, to have the man’s eyes trained on him keenly as he speaks. 



“Javert, please. I know your mind must be in a dark and troubled place right now, but you must know that you are not alone. I intend to help you. Whether you like or not, I regret to inform you.”



He huffs. “You do not change, Valjean. You are still a stubborn spirit.”



“Then we have something in common, don’t we?” Valjean chuckles lowly, before his voice once again takes on a more serious tone. “Come now. We are adult men, are we not? Let us act like it. It will do us no good to quarrel like petulant children.”



“

You

 are a petulant child. 

I 

am an officer of the law.” 



“Who ignores my request to be civil and continues to behave immaturely. Honestly Inspector, do have some dignity.”



“That is a difficult thing to do, when you have left me undressed and helpless in your bed.”


 


It is Valjean who sighs now, dropping his head into his hands. It’s true, he knew Javert would be difficult, but clearly the trauma of everything that has happened to him has made him even more unruly and uncooperative. He runs a hand through his own curls, and glances at the bedraggled-looking man laid in his bed, and he feels a strange wave of sympathy and compassion for the old policeman. His heart had been set in stone, and now his worldview has been ruthlessly shattered by none other than the man he had pursued his whole life. It is only natural that he is defensive and closed-minded right now. Trust is not formed overnight, Valjean reminds himself, remembering how tentative and nervous Cosette had been when he first took her into his company. He resolves that he must be more patient with Javert; perhaps in time he will open up to him. Besides, it isn’t as if he could go anywhere - he does not know the full extent of his injuries, but upon the light examination he has made, he knows the Inspector’s spine is likely at least fractured, possibly worse. It would not hurt him to treat the man with dignity and care.






“Alright, I understand. I acknowledge that it must be difficult to talk about these things so soon after they have happened. I apologise. I did not wish to make you uncomfortable.”



Javert simply rolls his eyes in response, still looking down mournfully at his food. It seems something is holding him back. It takes Valjean a moment to realise. 



“You may pray if you wish, Inspector. I know it brings you solace to do so before you eat. In fact,” he continues, drawing a worn rosary from his pocket, “I found this in your coat pocket. It seems almost a miracle, does it not, that it is not lost or destroyed?” 


 


The Inspector is silent, but takes his rosary, and begins silently praying over the meal. Valjean, having always felt prayer is a private thing, pulls himself to his feet, leaving the man to pray and eat. There is no need to push him now. He likely still needs time to rest, after all. He may have slept for a long time, but his body is greatly injured and his mind must still be fatigued. A suicide attempt is no light matter, and to coax Javert into speaking of the matter when he clearly is not ready would likely only hurt him more. Valjean knows he will speak in his own time; there is no rush. 






He begins to push the door open, but pauses when he hears Javert’s voice again. 



“Valjean,” he calls, a command for attention, not a request. “Thank you.”



Valjean simply smiles slightly, nods his head in acknowledgement, and leaves. 


 

Okay so maybe I'm bad at updating but life has been hectic. Also about halfway through planning this chapter I had my leg propped up on my cane, slipped and nearly fell on my ass, so I hope it's worth it.(God, I'm so professional)

It has been a further week, now, then, in which the old nemeses have known each other's persistent company. It has been uneventful, for the most part. Valjean did eventually endeavour to purchase new bedclothes for Javert, after ascertaining to himself that the old police officer’s uniform was unfit for bed rest. The long nightshirt he purchases is oversized, and reveals more of the collarbone than polite company would likely deem decent, but Javert supposes it is an improvement on simply draping Valjean’s coat around his shoulders. For the first few days, Valjean attempts to talk to him, but quickly finds his attempts unfruitful. It is clear to him that Javert is still far from trusting him completely, and as such is unwilling to make any conversation beyond what he finds necessary to facilitate his survival in the house (“Are you hungry?” “No.” “I’ll make you something to eat just in case.”). After about three days, Valjean concludes that there is likely no point in further pressing the man into any unwarranted communication, and settles with simple pleasantries when he brings Javert food and water. After this, he leaves Javert to pray over his meal and eat, and the two coexist relatively peacefully. These events remain unchanged, until one day, as Valjean brings Javert his regular evening meal and goes to leave, he halts, hearing Javert’s voice and startling a little. “You always leave me to pray. I am beginning to ponder whether you ever do so yourself.”

Valjean looks to him with a puzzled expression; well it’s certainly true enough, he cannot deny, he does not pray as often as a devout Christian man should these days, he did not expect Javert of all people to express spiritual concern for him.

“I do pray, Javert. But, ah...I do confess, I have been somewhat lapse in the endeavour, of recent.” Javert turns to the old convict with a look under which Valjean cannot help but shudder. It is painfully similar to that old disapproving glare he was far too used to in the Toulon galleys. 

“You cannot profess to be a man of God, 246- Valjean, if you do not strive to maintain a close relationship with Him.”

Valjean is somewhat taken aback by this comment, once again confused by Javert’s sudden worry over his soul. Alas, this is the most engagement he has ever received from the man; it would be foolish of him to disregard his emotion. “Perhaps you are right, Inspector. Maybe I should strive to be more pious in my day-to-day affairs, hm?”

 

Javert once again regards Valjean, before grumbling. The old fool did not seem to understand his meaning at all.  This is idiotic,  he thinks to himself as he massages his temples with his fingers,  why should I even attempt to extend the olive branch to such a man? 

“You look troubled, Javert. Is something on your mind?” he enquires, with something more akin to fear rather than concern in his voice. 

Javert sighs deeply, before locking eyes with the ex-convict. Clearly he was not getting the message. 

“You, fool. I was...expressing an invitation.” he says tentatively, almost cautious. It takes Valjean a moment to find the meaning of his words. An invitation. The man who had pursued him all these years had just asked him to join in his prayer. Javert, a creature of solitude, no doubt about it, is finally opening up. Somewhat. It takes everything within him not to feel a little prideful at the fact. 

“Of course, Javert. I accept.”

Javert once again simply grumbles in response, lifting his rosary from his bedside and clutching the beads between his fingers as if he feared they might disappear if he did not hold tight enough. Valjean, unable to help but feeling like he is approaching a wounded and bashful stag in the night, kneels quietly next to the bed, bowing his head in silent prayer. In doing so, he thanks God not only for His bounty and His favour, but also for His blessing in allowing this moment to happen. For allowing Javert to open his heart enough to allow the man who once dominated him as a ruthless prison guard to pray alongside the prisoner. 

 

Javert is the one who lifts his head first, momentarily observing Valjean in prayer. He had expected the man to accept out of politeness, even out of hope for further engagement with him (Javert, after all, had been far from blind from the man’s attempts to get closer to him) but he had not expected to see him in lost in thought and prayer the way he is now. After all, how truly devout could a man who so shamelessly flouted God’s commandments in his crimes really be? All the same, it is clear to Javert in this moment that what he is witnessing is not performative piety; it is a troubled man praying for both of their souls. The thought troubles Javert so much that when Valjean once again speaks, he is almost startled. 

 

“You know, Inspector...I do believe this is the closest we’ve been. It means a lot to me that you would invite me to engage in such a...private act.”

This once again makes Javert clam up. This was so foolish. What had he expected, really? Of course Valjean was going to take this as an opportunity to probe at him further. He had been quite persistent in his attempts so far. Even when he was not directly speaking to him, he would find excuses to stay in the room longer than necessary. Something was always lost, or the curtains weren’t drawn quite right, or drawers of the dresser were not aligned properly. Javert is a detailed oriented man. He notices these things, of course, but it is clear to him when someone is looking for an excuse to remain in another’s company. He had seen the way hopeful young women unconvincingly bump into undeniably handsome and wealthy men in the street, dropping a handkerchief or noticing some supposed obscure past connection between the two of them. 

 

Valjean, naturally, has noticed Javert’s sudden quiet. Why did he say that? It’s taken him this long to elicit any kind of voluntary interaction between the two of them, and now he’s boasting over their closeness? It vaguely occurs to Valjean that perhaps he is not as charismatic as Monsieur Madeleine was, nor as subtle. He continues to spiral among this train of thought until he is interrupted. “What I mean to say,” Javert sighs, clearly sensing Valjean’s discomfort in silence, “is that you clearly intend to continue engaging me even if I give you nothing in return. So...it seems pointless to avoid such exchanges with you. It is not as if I am in any position to leave any time soon.”

Valjean looks up a little, attempting to study the other man’s face. His deep, intelligent brown eyes betray nothing. He gives up quickly. Clearly head-on is the only way to approach this. “Javert...will you tell me nothing more? You have been here over a week now, and still you say nothing of how you feel of this arrangement, or of your condition, never mind how you came to be in it.”

Javert does not falter in his response. “What is there to say? There is no use in denying my intent; it occurs to me now that you must have witnessed my fall to have rescued me in time to...preserve my life. So then, I put to you this: I tried to kill myself. I failed. There is nothing else to be said of the situation.”

 

The way the old Inspector speaks holds a note of finality, but apparently in this moment that is lost on Jean Valjean. He is uncomfortable on a level that he cannot quite express. There has to be more than this, surely. He has to feel something about the whole affair. One cannot feign neutrality on such matters! He runs a hand through his somewhat messy curls, lightly tugging as he desperately searches for something to say. Something to say! Anything!

 

He eventually settles on this. “I hope one day you will talk to me. Javert. I-” he allows his face briefly to fall into his hands, before meeting those intense russet eyes again. “I hope that one day you trust me enough to share how you truly feel with me.”

Javert’s face remains stone. “I feel nothing of it now.”

It takes everything in Valjean not to groan in frustration. Javert is unflinching and clearly unmoved by his plea for transparency. It wouldn’t hurt to persist a little more, surely…

 

“You must feel something. What you went through was traumatic! One does not come out of such things emotionally unscathed!”

No sign of change. “Clearly I am not an ordinary man then. I have nothing to say on the matter, even less that I would divulge to the likes of you.”

“I refuse to believe that.”

“Refuse and deny all you wish. You were always adept at making untruths seem their opposite,  Monsieur Madeleine.” 

“You’re deflecting.”

“I am not. You are projecting what  you want me to feel.”

“You must have felt something to throw yourself off a bridge, Javert!” 

 

Javert freezes up at those last words, practically spat from the other man with an undeniable degree of frustration and spite. That dreaded feeling from a week ago once begins to claw at his throat, like a cat mercilessly batting about a captured rodent. All at once, everything is undone and he’s back on the bridge, underneath the cold and black stars, as if the universe had extinguished them solely for the purposes of swallowing him up into the darkness. Why resist? If he’s undone, he’s undone at his own hands. Darkness. He’s in the Seine again. There’s a searing pain in back, and the filthy dark water is consuming him. Its greedy hands seize his body, limp and helpless, dragging him beneath the surface, a siren luring her pray to his doom. Then there’s nothing. He’s not there. He’s not alive. He’s not dead. He’s nothing. There’s nothing but nothing. 

 

Valjean doesn’t even have to wait for Javert’s reaction to know that he screwed up. Badly. He had sworn to himself to be patient with Javert, to show him the same kindness and tolerance he had shown Cosette when he first adopted her, but he can only seem to do wrong by the old Inspector. Perhaps they simply weren’t meant to be friends. Or acquaintances. Or anything but enemies. All they can seem to do is hurt one another.  No,  Valjean tells himself,  this isn’t him. You hurt him. This is on you.      In his spiralling, Valjean is ignorant to his surroundings. He does not notice Javert thrashing about frantically in an attempt to escape the covers/currents that bind him, nor does he notice the man slowly lose his grip and start to fall all over again. It isn’t until he hears a resounding thud on the floor beside the bed that he looks up, finally snapped out of his haze. He looks up, but sees no Javert. In seconds, he’s on the other side of the bed, knelt beside the fallen police officer. He’s hurt. Again.  Damn it. 

 

Valjean pulls Javert against him before gently leaning him against the side of the bed frame, inspecting him for injury. There’s blood on his forehead, accompanied by a nasty gash. He must’ve hit his head when he fell from the bed, Valjean quickly realises. Seeing that Javert is still out of it, he gets to his feet before ever-so-gently lifting Javert back into place in bed, this time leaving him on top of the covers as not to further induce panic with restrictions. He attempts a few times to catch his attention, but cannot. Sensing that Javert will likely need time to recover from such shock, he murmurs a few words of reassurance and explanation before he quickly leaves the room in search of bandages and a cloth to clean the wound. 

 

It takes but two minutes for Valjean to return with dressing, but to Javert, it is an eternity. Nevertheless, the moments of silence give him a minute to pull himself back together. A little, at least. Although he cannot help but feel like his soundness and clarity of mind is more akin to a door loose on its hinges, or a shirt frayed and held together by only a few strong threads. Most of all, he is frustrated by himself. How could he let himself lose control like that again? What has become of him? He used to be so strong-willed, so calm, and now the tranquil lake within his mind has become a choppy overflowed river. But, of course, he recognises, perhaps it is not wise to think of rivers right now. They clearly trigger some kind of strange, hidden panic within him that he reviles with every fiber of his being.

 

When he returns, Valjean is meek and overtly gentle. It irritates Javert greatly to be treated as if he’s a delicate child, but what is there to do? If he protests, Valjean will simply take it as a sign that he is still hysterical, subsequently resulting in even more of the behaviour. No, better to take this for now, and tolerate the patronising manner until he is convinced once again that he does not need to treat Javert so gently. 

 

Soundlessly, Valjean approaches and dabs Javert’s forehead with a wet cloth. Javert himself had hardly noticed the injury, but now he notices, it stings, and it’s all he can do to stop himself from wincing as the other man attends him. Once he is done, he stares back up at Valjean with as much clarity and focus as he can muster, attempting to make evident his change of state. Valjean, apparently, does not get the memo as he pulls Javert up against his chest once again, hushing him much the way he had the first time. As much he hates to admit it, Valjean’s being is warm, and the way his hands delicately brush through his coiled hair is pleasant. He knows how to be gentle when he wants to be, Javert supposes. As Valjean reassures Javert, his mind is fixed elsewhere. As focused as he is on trying to calm the man, he cannot help but think about the way Javert had responded (or rather, not responded) when he had lifted him from the ground just a few minutes ago. His upper body seemed to writhe and move with a vivacity that suggests to Valjean that there is likely little cause for concern, but his lower half was all but unresponsive. As he wrapped his arms around Javert, his legs had hung limply and heavily, like some sort of ragdoll. He had figured, of course, that something like this may occur, but at this rate, it didn’t seem like Javert could move his legs at all. But, of course, he should not mention this right now. If he were to get frantic and panicked again, Valjean is not sure he would know how to calm him down. 

 

Unsurprisingly, it doesn’t take Javert long to catch the deep troubled look in the old con’s eyes. 

“There’s something on your mind.” he says pointedly, a statement, not a question. 

 Damn,  Valjean thinks to himself, I   should have figured Javert is too quick-witted to be fooled by this facade of peace.   “Ah...it’s nothing you need to be worried about, Inspector. I assure you.” 

“You must think me quite stupid, Valjean. I find it quite the insult that you think I would believe that.”

“No, it’s not that-”

“Then tell me. I’m not as breakable and unstable as you believe me to be.”

 

Valjean sighs heavily. There’s no point hiding anything from Javert. He’s simply too sharp to be fooled by such trickery. He hadn’t gotten as far as he had managed without a significant amount of skill and tenacity; his senses were that of a bloodhound, Valjean knew only too well. 

“I...well, it’s just that…” he begins, attempting to be delicate.

“I do not have the time nor the patience for your deliberation, man. Say what you mean to say or leave me be.” his voice is harsh and abrupt, patience lacking completely. 

Valjean shakes his head. “As you wish, Javert. It is just that I could not help but notice the lack of responsivity in your lower half when I picked you up earlier. I was merely concerned. About, well...the function of your lower half, shall we say?”

“Is that all?” he asks impatiently, “I had noticed that fact awhile ago. It is to be expected with an injury such as the one I have attained. It is not as if there is much to be done.”

 

Valjean pauses a minute, his mind once again troubled. How is he taking this all so calmly? Javert is not a fool, not by any stretch of the imagination; he clearly understands the long-term implications of his injury, and yet…

“You seem remarkably calm about this. Does it not concern you at all? Are you not at least...upset, in any capacity? Surely you must know these sorts of things are hard to remedy.”

Javert does not rile. “I am well aware. I do not need you to patronise me. I see no reason to become unreasonable. It is definitely an inconvenience, I cannot deny that, but as I have already said, there is little that can be done. As such, there is no sense in getting... emotional, about it.” 

As he speaks, Valjean cannot help but notice that he says the words ‘emotional’ with a degree of malice, as if he had learned to resent any notion of feelings. Alas, it’s hardly as if he could blame the man. He has likely had to endure and witness much horror in his life, and as such is probably a lot more desensitised than the average person. 

 

“Javert,  please,”  he pleads, with more emotion than he ever expected to display before the old policeman, “I won’t judge you, for whatever you may say. I just need to know that you feel  something . It can’t be healthy to keep your feelings concealed this way.”

Javert looks to Valjean, this time his gaze perhaps a touch softer than before. Sure, he might not fully trust the man, but this is the most concern anyone had ever shown him. But all the same, what is he to say? He is telling the truth, for the moment, at least. He has felt remarkably numb since his fall, save for in those moments of panic. There is no other truth to tell. 

 

“Valjean. If I must be truly candid with you, then so be it. The truth is this: I feel nothing of the affair because there is nothing left to feel. Whether I died or not, my life was over the moment I left that note and leapt from that bridge. My purpose is complete. There is no more meaning left in my life. I have come full circle. I was born into a life of crime, and now I find myself alone and disgraced. It seems...appropriate, if nothing else.” Javert’s words carry the gravity of a man speaking from experience, and he meets his old enemy’s eyes steady and unfaltering as he speaks. It is the first time that night that Valjean has believed what he said, and yet it is not satisfaction on his face. It is pain and pity, concern and hurt. 

 

His voice is still soft when he speaks again. “Your life is not meaningless, Javert, and you are certainly not alone. I am here, am I not? I already told you that I intend to look after you as long as necessary.”

“You misunderstand me. My purpose is finished because I am here. I can never go back to the way things were before, not now. Being an officer of the law was the cornerstone of my identity. They will never take me back now, and I cannot blame them. In truth, it would have been better had you left me to drown. Perhaps then my message might have at least resonated more.”

“How can you say that? The Inspector I knew was so tenacious, so relentless! He would never give up this way.”

“Is that not precisely the point,  Jean? ” his words imply familiarity, but his tone implies something else. “The person you knew back then was ‘Inspector Javert’. Now I am simply Javert. I am derailed. There is nothing left of what I knew or who I am. Not even I know who I am any longer, Valjean. And quite frankly, if you were that concerned about preserving the man you knew, then maybe you should not have rescued me from the Seine in the first place. It was reckless of you to have risked your life that way, even more so for a man who is already damned.”

 

This stings, and Javert knows it from the look of pain on Valjean’s face as he speaks. 

“I knew the risks, Inspe- Javert.” Javert flinches off to the side, and Valjean chides himself mentally to watch his language more, “I would do it again, however, given the need. I could not rest soundly, nor could I live knowing I had let an innocent man die.”

“Innocent? That’s an interesting choice of words from you, Jean Valjean.”

“I stand by it. I meant what I said, when I freed you at the barricade. You did your duty, nothing more. For that, I cannot hold you blameworthy. It is not your fault that life dealt you those cards.”

“Cards? Speak not to me of fate, I do not care for it. I  chose  to work as a prison guard, and subsequently  chose to become an Inspector.”

“Be that as it may, Javert,” Valjean retorts, “It was not much of a choice to make, was it?”

 

Javert pauses a minute, raising an eyebrow as if daring him to continue.

“And do tell me, Valjean. Why, pray tell, do you think that?”

“Is it not obvious?” he replies, “You told me yourself. ‘I was born inside a jail’ tells me all I need know. Your ‘choice’ was to continue such a life or to become the guardian of the law instead. Both are the life of the outcast. Don’t misunderstand me of course, I commend you for your duty. In fact, I admire your genuine dedication to upholding justice, no matter the cost. But all the same, surely you of all people must see that the system is unfair. The cards were as stacked against you as they were against me, likely more.”

Javert looks amused than angered, much to Valjean’s surprise, when he next speaks.

“Hm? Why is that?”

“Because of who you are, Javert. I am not blind. I have seen the way officers and authority figures of all forms have treated your kind. I can only imagine how they must have treated a man like that in their own ranks.”

“If you wish to address my complexion, Valjean, then do so. It will do neither of us any good to euphemise it. Say what you mean, rather than what you think is appropriate to say.”

“Fine. I can only imagine how poorly they must have treated a dark-skinned man amongst their own. As much as I applaud your commitment, it should not have been necessary. I have seen men rise through the ranks far faster than you for far less.”

 

Javert grumbles at this comment. It’s true, he could not deny that many an officer had given him a hard time over his appearance, but it is a surprise that Valjean is aware of such a fact. Too often the people around him are blind to these things. 

“I cannot claim you are wrong in that respect, I will grant you that. But...I would have to disagree with the latter half of your statement. It is not that I was too dedicated. It is that others were not dedicated enough. Nor was I, in my own way, to what was truly important. You call me a man of justice, but you must clearly see the flaw in that: I had overlooked the wider picture for the details my entire life. I chased men for stealing food for their families in the name of justice, all whilst ignoring the wider injustice of the society that obligates them to do so.”

“Well...I do suppose if nothing else, the fact that you realise that now tells me that you are still fundamentally a good man. And for what is worth, Javert, I consider you no less than I, or any other man.”

Javert grumbles under his breath. “Although I cannot claim to be thrilled about being equal to a criminal…”

“That is not what I meant. I merely meant to say that I do not feel that your skin makes you inferior to myself in any way. To be perfectly transparent, I cannot imagine you any other way. It is a strange thought. I acknowledge it certainly must have brought its fair share of difficulty and adversity, but it is an intrinsic part of you. I think you should embrace it, and hold yourself proud that you overcame the hurdles you did.”

 

Javert huffs, knowing that he cannot truly refute his point; it’s true, he had held a lot of pride in his position, especially knowing how hard he had to work to reach it. There is a silence a moment, then, before Valjean once again gently lays a hand on his shoulder again, noticing that, for the first time that evening, Javert did not flinch away from him. He is lost for words a minute, trying to collect his thoughts. 

“I apologise, Javert. I had not meant to come off so intense. I had promised myself I would be more patient and understanding to your troubles, and yet on several occasions I have pressed you beyond what you consider comfortable.”

 

Javert simply shrugs, shifting his eyes away from the other man’s gaze, unsure of what to say. He is soon spared the trouble. 

“I will be more patient in future. You have my word, I will stay by your side as long as is necessary.”

He looks back to Valjean. “That may very well be a long time. You said it yourself: my legs may never function properly again. You should not make promises you cannot keep, Jean.”

“I intend to keep this promise. Besides, my Cosette will soon, I have no doubt, become engaged to this Pontmercy boy she is so infatuated with, and she will have no need of my company any longer.” He smiles sadly as he speaks, a fondness visible in his soft, worn eyes. 

“You speak as if she will disappear off this Earth. I see your flair for the dramatic has not waned.” Javert, once again, looks almost amused as he talks. 

“Ah, but she will have much less desire to see me once she has a family of her own. It is to be expected; I hold no resentment against her for that. Besides, it will do me good to have some companionship in my old age.”

Javert pulls an expression much akin to revulsion, but it is clear to Valjean that it is mostly meant in a playful manner.  Javert in a playful manner  , he thinks to himself,  what an odd and wonderful spectacle to behold.   “Do not worry, Javert. I will be here to look after you as long as you need me. ‘Til death do us part, should it be necessary!”

 

Valjean is almost sure he hears the not quite successful suppression of a gruff chuckle, and smiles in response. He sits with Javert only a few moments longer, ascertaining he has all he needs to be comfortable, and placing his food tray back on his lap, before leaving. The food is cold now, Javert realises, but he still eats it, perhaps a little more gratefully than he might have before.

Yes, it has been a very long time, but in my defense every time I lift my hand to write something else distracts me, or takes my focus. Hopefully as I begin to tackle various issues in my life, I will be able to write more frequently. Hopefully. 

This chapter is short, but is an important catalyst for further chapters. That being said, I hope you enjoy.


To the greatest possible extent, Jean Valjean keeps his promises. Sure, Javert does not make it easy. He is often abrasive and callous, but this does not discourage him; he continues to recall the anxiety of a young Cosette: tentative, afraid and closed off from the world. It is true that Javert is not a fragile child, but the fact remains he is vulnerable and hurting, irregardless of his own denial of the fact. In that respect, the two are not so dissimilar. 


 


To his own relief and satisfaction, over the next few weeks, Javert does become slightly more agreeable to tend. He still has his moments of hostility (Valjean recalls the time a week or so ago when he burnt himself on a hot poker whilst stoking the coals, only for the Inspector to retort that he is “nought but an empty-headed whoreson” for the purposes of performing basic household tasks - to which, despite the biting nature of the remark, Valjean cannot help but laugh) but he does not appear to openly resent the man caring for him. He is told by Cosette on multiple occasions that Javert can be fair company, if one does not trespass on the boundary between the facade and the personal too heavily. Whilst he does his best to respect this so-called ‘line’, it is difficult for the naturally personable gentleman to not push this limit. 






Nevertheless, despite this tension, Javert does seem to make decent recovery in this time. The nightmares seem to subside somewhat, and when they do plague him, Valjean is there, by his side. Javert does not fight him on this. On some deep level, it occurs to Valjean that he likely found the company comforting, but he has learned his lesson: Javert is a creature of privacy and reserve. Remarking upon his sociability is simply not acceptable. They co-exist peacefully enough on the foundation of this agreement: Valjean does not overstay his welcome, and Javert does not reject his company. It is not ideal, but Javert does not seem as averse to the company of a convicted man as he might’ve been even a matter 



 months ago. Finally, all is going well, and the old inspector continues to heal according to plan. 






Unfortunately, as we all know, even the best laid plans often go awry. 






It is a cool July evening when terror once again seizes the inspector’s throat once more, it’s icy claws squeezing the air from his lungs. It is as if a metal cage clasps around his chest, restricting his ability to breathe. Javert does not understand. It has been almost two weeks since his last panic attack, and something was off this time. Every other time, there had been some catalyst: some unpleasant memory surfacing and plaguing his psyche, or some accidental mention of the Seine, or of his abandoned duty. No such trigger exists this time. Javert is awoken simply to heaving lungs and a searing pain in his lower spine that is so intense that it nauseates the old inspector to his very core. It is as if hot coals scald the area, causing him to clasp frantically at his pillow, his duvet, anything he can get his hands on. Normally, he would be hesitant to explicitly call out for his carer, even in moments of panic and pain, but this time he does not hesitate.






“Valjean!” 


 


It is not thirty seconds after the name left Javert’s lips that Valjean bursts into his room, dressed only in his nightgown. It is quite an undignified state, but dignity is the furthest thing from either of their minds right now. He rushes to the Inspector’s side, quickly clasping his hand in his. 






“Javert, are you alright?! You scared me almost half to dea-”



He is cut off. “Evidently not!” 






The words were likely intended to sound scolding and harsh, but the agony in the man’s voice elicits only pity in Valjean who, seeing how Javert clutches at his back, quickly moves to lift his nightgown and inspect the area, only to find no injury present. There’s no evidence of any further damage on the surface level, and yet...the wild look in Javert’s eyes like a bolting stallion tells a different story. But what is he to do? There is no injury to treat. It is all Valjean can think to do to perch on the edge of the bed, the way he had the first time Javert had awoken in his abode, and draw the man against his form. He knows that he can do little to relieve the physical pain the Inspector experiences, but perhaps he can alleviate some of the panic and frenzy from his mind. 


 


Valjean had never seen Javert cry before. He did not think, even in this circumstance, that he ever would. These aren’t tears of sadness, or of grief; they’re hot, messy and wet, the true epitome of a man in anguish. It is odd to see the Inspector in such a vulnerable and raw state, and Valjean begins to regret wishing that the man would display more emotion, because now it’s happening, it's intense, and frightening, and 

he has no idea what to do.



 


It’s almost two hours before the pain subsides to a bearable level, and Javert has enough awareness and humility to dry his eyes and release his companion’s arm which, unbeknownst to him, had begun to bloom bruises beneath the fabric where he had grasped. Valjean does not begrudge him this; he’s simply glad Javert appears to have regained some of his lucidity. There is awkward silence for a moment, save for the quiet sniffling and the uncomfortably loud ticking of the grandfather clock. 


 


“Javert…” Jean begins, not exactly knowing how he intends to finish the sentence.



“I don’t know.” Javert cuts in, apparently spontaneously recovering his indifferent and astute nature somewhat. “I was simply overcome. I cannot describe it.”


 


Valjean’s forehead creases as he hears this, and he massages his temple with his fingers. He did not disbelieve Javert: he is certain that he is indeed lacking words to describe what just occurred, but it is also true that he knows not to expect him to be forthcoming and open about the experience either. He had never seen the man in such a condition, and even now the pain and panic still leaves traces on his expression. Should he call for a doctor, Javert would almost certainly decline. He had made his distaste for people handling his body quite known, and had often kicked up a fuss even when it was Valjean who had tried to examine him; he could not imagine the man reacting enthusiastically to a stranger doing the same. It is for this reason he does not push the issue further and, slowly and deliberately, he pushes Inspector’s tousled coils of hair out of his face, regarding him as kindly and gently as he knows how to. 






The expression he wears now once again reminds him of the way he had altered his mannerisms with Cosette in the beginning, and for a moment Valjean is almost disconcerted when he considers how many times he’s regarded the both of them with those same eyes: eyes full of care and, dare he say it, affection. It is true, he cannot deny that he has come to feel a sense of duty over the injured man, somewhat akin to that which he felt for his young adopted daughter all those years ago, but there is some other quality there also. Valjean could not explain it, and part of him did not want to know the answer. He attempts to abandon these thoughts in their tracks and turns his focus (to the best of his ability) back to Javert. 






“You’re giving me that look again.” Javert notes curtly, “Do you ever cease with that odd stare of yours?” 


 



Ah, so he had noticed, 

Valjean thinks, 

of course he would - this was the great Inspector Javert after all: he missed nothing. 









“I do apologise, Inspector. I had not meant to offend you.” He says gently, casting his eyes slightly askance as not to seem too intense towards the likely already overwhelmed man. 



“You misunderstand me, as ever.” Javert replies quickly, “I do not understand why you always look at me that way. Without resentment. With...whatever that odd look is!”



“Care, Javert. Do you really not recognise it?” Valjean asks, cocking his head slightly.



“No. And I don’t care to.” He retorts, with a note of finality that tells Valjean that this conversation is over.


 


Valjean sighs heavily, but does not press the matter further, instead rising from the bed and casting his eyes about the room, as if looking for some excuse to busy himself. He finds nothing, and once again turns towards the door, moving to leave the room. 


 


“Do not hesitate to call for me again, should you feel the need, Monsieur.” His tone is formal and unfamiliar even to him, but he does not let the matter occupy his mind any further, and closes the door behind him. 


 


The Inspector experiences this torment thrice more before he finally agrees, without any significant degree of complaint, to be examined by a physician. Valjean is both relieved and fearful: does some new malady plague the Inspector now? Perhaps it is of the variety that is not recoverable, such as that which had claimed sweet Fantine, all those years ago in Montreuil-sur-Mer. Could he cope with such a loss again? Whilst it is true that he did not know Javert well, he had quickly grown attached to the man in his care, much the way he had with Fantine. Fantine’s loss had affected Jean Valjean profoundly, and occasionally guilt still seizes his mind over the affair. Could he have done more? Alas, in the end, he was powerless to save her. Was the same to become of Inspector Javert? 


 


He is soon forced to pull himself out of this spiral, to attend Javert for the fourth time this fortnight. 


Two chapters in a few days? Surprisingly productive. Am hoping now that I have a concrete plan for the rest of the fic that chapters will come quicker than before!


Javert hates doctors. Most of all, he hates doctors that poke, prod, and invade his personal space. This particular physician does all these things over the hour that he examines Javert, with meticulous attention to detail. His name is Brisbois, from what the Inspector gathers, and he knows Jean Valjean personally. Likely for an extended amount of time. It makes sense, he supposes: who was he to contact if his daughter fell ill? But a man in connection with Valjean had to harbour some secret benefit from it, in order to preserve his urgent sense of secrecy. Javert would guess extra coin, but only because he is loath to consider to any great extent any uncovered or nefarious goings-on connected with this man (or any other, for that matter of fact!) at this moment in time. 


 


Cosette attends as M. Brisbois and Valjean converse, quiet and, as ever, covertly, a few metres from the end of Javert’s bed. Javert cannot make out what they say; he has, in the last decade or so, become significantly more hard of hearing than he once was. His senses are still sharp, nonetheless. And it is his instinct to lean in as much as he can in order to observe what he can of the discussion. He gleans very little from the content of their words, but the firm and serious face of the doctor as he shakes his head, combined with the thinly veiled forlorn look on Valjean’s face tells him the news is not good. 




It is another ten minutes before M. Brisbois and Jean Valjean finally acknowledge Javert once more. Javert feels a sense of bitterness in this, but, having bitten his tongue in front of his superiors for decades, he holds his peace. 


 


“Monsieur?” M. Brisbois addresses Javert, and Javert once again sees the guarded look in the man’s eyes. Something is not right. Javert gives a faint hum of acknowledgement, his mind revolving rapidly with various different catastrophes. He notices, out of the corner of his eye, Valjean cross the room and stand on Javert’s right, by his bedside. 




The physician’s next words are a blur. Javert is not an unintelligent man by any stretch of the imagination (in fact, quite the opposite: his affinity for solving cases others had thought unsolvable had rather marked him out as very learned) but he is not a man of medicine. Nevertheless, he understands enough. Enough to know his life is ruined, at least. 




The searing episodes of pain, M. Brisbois assesses, are likely psychological - that is to say, they are manifested by Javert, as opposed to some manifestation of some physical symptom of his injuries. He knows not whether the episodes will continue, nor whether they will ever end. His physical condition too, as he had already estimated, is very poor. There are marked signs of stress on his body, and his spine and pelvis are deeply damaged. It is extremely unlikely he will be able to walk again, and will likely continue to experience paralysis of some variety for the rest of his life.


 


*****




Javert does not notice when the physician leaves, but he would speculate that it was some hours ago now. Time has ceased to progress in its regular way, and he is disconnected from reality. This time, there is no intense panic, no internal sensation of drowning, only numbness. He supposes he would be grateful for the lack of pain for any significant time, but the knowledge imparted to him by M. Brisbois leaves him with the regrettable assurance that this relief is likely only temporary. Javert struggles at this time to describe his state even to himself. He is drawn-in, and the world beyond his being does not exist. He is vaguely aware of his surroundings, but only through memory, and all of the trauma of the last few months merges into a puddle of slush that he distances himself from, at least in a figurative sense. No, instead of the all-too-familiar feeling of drowning, Javert is graced with a brand new feeling: he is floating, and disconnected from everything, including his own body. He does not think, he does not feel; he merely exists. 


 


Valjean observes this new state of Javert’s with a great deal of concern. It is now nightfall, and a thick layer of dark cloud obscures the stars, creating a gloom that Valjean feels is more appropriate to shield from by drawing the curtains. He had tried a few times over the course of the afternoon to call for Javert’s attention, and to pull him out of this strange husk he has become, but nothing seems to reach him. He knows soon the man must surely be hungry, but he makes no indication of this being so. If he feels anything, his face does not betray this. It is odd to Valjean that, despite still being sat beside Javert’s bedside, he still feels far from the man. 


 


Realising that he may need to feed Javert soon irregardless of whether he is hungry or not, Valjean rises from his seat and walks into the kitchen downstairs. When he descends down, he sees Cosette, who, having taken more initiative than he, was already stirring some sort of broth over the heat. His worry must have been evident on his face, he supposes, because it does not take her long to notice his discontent. 




“You look quite troubled, Papa.” she notes, her voice quiet but compassionate, “Does something trouble you?” 


Valjean says nothing at first, absentmindedly running a hand through his greying curls, but finds himself unconsciously nodding at the question. 


“Is it your friend? Did the physician not bring good news?” she asks, her face alight with slight worry, not only for their guest, but for her father, who she knows is a kind and caring soul, who felt the pain of those close to him as clearly as he felt his own. 




Valjean closes his eyes a minute, and sighs, contemplative. Was it wise to discuss these matters in front of Cosette? The girl, as little as she knows about his true connection with the Inspector, would undoubtedly have questions if he disclosed more of his condition. Even further, Cosette, like himself, is a kindhearted and charitable soul. A soul that he wishes to shield from the harsh realities of the world. 


 


But then again, he supposes, it is also true that Cosette is not naive, nor as innocent as he should like to believe she is. She is a woman now, of course, and would likely soon be married with a family of her own. Furthermore, Cosette has seen the face of hardship and injustice many times; he has no doubt that her beloved had shared with her stories of the barricade, and of his friends that fell there. Young boys. Students, mostly. It should be no surprise to her to discover that once again the world has dealt another a harsh fate. Besides, he muses to himself, it might be beneficial to the both of them to discuss the situation: to sate her curiosity, and to ease his own mind. 


 


He discloses to her not everything, carefully omitting any great deal of information about the past the two of them have, and explains the source of Javert’s injury as the result of an unfortunate fall. He suspects, however, the latter euphemism is not lost on Cosette, as he sees her eyes flash with a sort of understanding beyond that of an individual passively taking what is told to him. He explains the limited prospects of recovery, and his concern for his friend’s new and bizarre trance-like behaviour.


 


Cosette is quiet throughout, nodding as she listens and takes in this information. Naturally, she still has her curiosities: where did her father meet this man? What is his exact relationship with him? How exactly does one have to fall to sustain such severe injuries? Despite this, she raises no more questions once Valjean has finished his account; she is grateful even that her Papa has finally judged her mature enough to impart this information to her. He is a very private man, she knows. She has tried many a time to cajole information about his history and personal affairs, only to be given vague answers and a swift change of topic. However, she contemplates, it is unfortunate that the first significant amount of personal information her father shares with her is of such a dark and serious nature. She wonders how much of the rest of his past conforms to such themes. 


 


“That is all I can tell you at this time, my dear Cosette. This man is gravely unwell, and it is of great importance to me that he should continue to be well attended, and that I might, in some small way, be able to alleviate his pain. In spite of this, such an idea continues to elude me; he has not responded in any coherent way to my voice in quite some time now. I know not how to reach him.”




Cosette is thoughtful a moment, admittedly slightly overwhelmed by this deluge of information. Grateful as she may be for his father’s bout of unexpected transparency, she finds herself quite lost for what to suggest. After all, for days and weeks she has attended Marius, and attempted to ease his mind of the terrible sights he has witnessed, but cannot seem to relieve him in any substantial way of such agonies. It is apparent to her, however, that her father is a pensive and resourceful man - he simply needs to quell his own anxieties and concerns before he should be capable of creating solutions to the ailments of his companion. 


 


“Perhaps you should take a walk outside, Papa. Supper will not be finished for some time, and maybe the cool summer’s air might stir up some idea in your mind.” 



“Ah, you are likely right, Cosette. I have always found the evening breeze quiet bracing. Do keep an eye on our guest whilst I am gone, won’t you? I will be back before the next hour is out, I should think.” he replies, making his way towards the door. 


“Do not forget your coat, Papa. There is some chill in the air tonight, and it will do you no good to contract some illness from the cold.”





Of course not, 

Valjean thinks to himself, 

if I were incapacitated from illness, who would check in on Javert? Cosette may be kind and happy to help where she can, but she has her own obligations to tend to.









He makes sure to grab his warmest greatcoat from the wrack before he leaves, and sets out into the streets of Paris. Although the city is often bustling even of a night, all seems still tonight, with the exception of the bitter wind stinging his cheeks and ears, more akin to that of a winter gale than a summer’s breeze. He makes no conscious effort to choose a path, but somehow he knows where he is going before he decides to follow it. 




The old stone bridge that spans the width of the Seine is a strangely formidable sight this night, and he, for a moment, has to banish the illusion of some shadow standing atop its railing. Despite not having lived the Inspector’s experiences, he still feels some unease as he crosses the bridge to its halfway point, pausing to sit on a stone bench. He once again closes his eyes, and listens to the vicious sound of the gushing water below, consuming anything that dares cross its path. He knows the strength of the current all too well - he had, after all, dove into its depths himself to retrieve Javert’s from its grasp. He is lost in thought a moment: what would have happened if he had not set out once again that night? Had he been even five minutes longer to the riverside than he had been? Would Javert have been irrevocably lost to the waters? He doesn’t wish to know, but still the idea nauseates him, and he decides that he does not care for such destructive hypothetical questions. 




In an attempt to distract his ever-churning thoughts, he leans back slightly against the bench, bracing himself with his arms behind him, and looking up to the sky. There is a spot, almost directly above him, where the grey clouds appear to part somewhat, leaving a faint patch of Heaven to shine down upon him. He feels now is an appropriate time to pray.




In the course of his prayers, Valjean notices something: his attention is drawn to the Heavens as he addresses the Lord Almighty, and the whisper of a soft and pleading 

amen

 seems to reach the clouds, as they slowly drift further apart, allowing him a proper glimpse of the night sky, alight with thousands of twinklings stars, floating almost piously above him like a mass of candles held in a Mass. An idea slowly dawns upon Valjean like the rise of an early sunset: perhaps the way to reach his companion (when did Valjean start considering Javert a companion, he briefly wonders, but he quickly pushes the thought aside) is not to allow him to languish alone in the comforts of his bedroom, but rather to allow him to experience once more the wonder of nature and the Heavens, hoping that it might touch his soul the way it has his own this night. He knows to expect no revelation or instant cure, but any distraction, any evidence whatsoever that the world is still turning and beautiful, might help, surely? 



With this thought in mind, he sits no more than a moment more,  taking one last glance at the stars above, before pulling his greatcoat tighter around himself, and beginning to make his way back home. 


Yes, it's been a long time but in my defence, life has been more than hectic. 'Tis better late than never.


Valjean’s plan takes some time to put into place - after all, if the physician’s diagnosis is correct, then Javert will be quite incapable of treading such a path as planned autonomously. Nonetheless, it is in every sensible instinct Valjean holds to spare the Inspector the indignity of carrying him, lame, through the streets of Paris. No, some other alternative must be met. 


 


In pursuit of this aim, Valjean visits many a salesman, and from them he purchases: wooden pieces of many shapes and sizes, small wagon wheels and the finest leather he can afford. It’s true, he’s a handy man, but a project such as this is inevitably a huge undertaking. He could have commissioned a handier man than he to complete this project, but his lasting desire to now draw any more attention to himself behooves him to complete this craft with his own hands. 


 


He works at least ten days and ten nights, anxious to see this plan come to fruition, and to see, most importantly, that his work is reliable and sturdy. Finally, on the eleventh evening of a particularly mild summer’s day, his project is complete: a beautifully crafted wooden wheelchair, complete with fine leather seat cover, grooved handles and sturdy wooden wheels. Valjean knows, of course, this is only half the battle; Javert himself, of course, would be the arduous other half. 


 


Jean approaches the way he would any other evening. A polite but not too quiet rapping of knuckles at the door, to announce his presence before he steps beyond the threshold.  He has come to learn that when it comes to attending Javert, it is rather a lack of protest one should listen for rather than the issuing of invitation. 


 


When he enters the room, Javert is, as has been typical of the past week or so, simply sitting ever so slightly upright, staring not at Jean, but through him, as if he were some transparent apparition. He calls out quietly to Javert a few times, like a tentative child trying to wake her mother after a nightmare, but to no avail. Reluctantly, he approaches closer, stepping until he reaches Javert’s bedside, and sitting beside him. He places a gentle but assured hand on Javert’s shoulder, who reacts only shallowly to the touch, as if stuck in some reverie. 


 


“Javert.” Valjean calls softly again, very slightly shaking the man. 


 


No response. He sighs a moment, battling mentally to balance his desire to respect Javert’s space and bodily autonomy, but also his need to catch the attention of the old police Inspector. Then, very gradually, he reaches out a palm and cups it around the cheek opposite to himself, and, with the little force he dare apply to the man’s fragile and damaged body, moves his face to look in his direction, moving his other hand over Javert’s hand. 


 


There is silence a moment before Javert finally breaks his peace, uttering the first sound Jean had heard from the man in days. Only a faint hum of what might have been acknowledgement, but at this point Valjean knows he should take what he can get. 









“Javert? How are you doing today?” 


 


A faint hum in response. Not exactly eloquence, but at least it’s a response. 


 


“I, ah, made you something. I was wondering if you wanted to see it?”


 


The response this time is more akin to an exasperated huff of air. Valjean isn’t surprised by this response; he did not exactly figure Javert to be the type who would be thrilled and delighted by surprises. All the same, he had to try, right? 


 


“I’ll be right back, okay? Don’t worry.”


 


Valjean ushers off a moment, before quickly returning, awkwardly reversing the wheelchair he had fashioned over the last stair. Okay, perhaps he hadn’t quite thought about that part, but all this could be navigated in some way or another, he’s sure. He knows the effort is worth it, however, when he finally receives a proper response, even though it’s:


 


“No.” The Inspector is abrupt and to-the-point in his protestation, apparently underwhelmed enough to not even spare the gesture the eloquence of a rational refusal. 


 


“Oh come now, you haven’t even given me a moment to explain.” 


 


“Unnecessary. No.” 


 


This response, nevertheless, does not halt Jean in his tracks as Javert might’ve hoped - albeit knowing it would very unlikely actually be the case. 


 


“I made this myself. I spent many days ensuring that it is comfortable and dignified. I simply could not bear to watch you languish in this dark room any longer!” Valjean is passionate in his argument, as is evident in his tone, “I had gone out a few moons ago, trying to invent some way to lift your spirits, as it were. I had walked awhile, and I found myself looking to the heavens to see the most wonderful of sights. I spoke to God and He heard my prayers, Javert. I asked Him how I should reach you, and the Heavens parted to reveal the most brilliant sky! Will you not indulge the Heavens their beauty? Do the stars even twinkle if none behold them?” 


 


Javert sighs deeply. This kind of melodrama was typical of Jean Valjean; all requests, all trials, everything a spectacle! Had he had the strength or will to protest, he most certainly would have, but there was no use. He would only be pestered further until he yielded. It seems to him now that this is likely his fate for the foreseeable future. 


 


“And how do you intend to get that…

thing

, downstairs?” he asks, eying up the hand-made chair. 


 


“Uh…” 


 


Drat. Javert, unsurprisingly, had seen through his lack of foresight, and fast. 


 


“You have no idea, do you?” Javert grumbles, huffing loudly. What a typical lack of foresight from the ex-convict. 





“Well…” he starts, awkwardly rubbing his hands together, “I could just carry y-”


 


“Absolutely not.” Javert cuts him off before he can finish the thought. “I will not tolerate the indignity of you carrying me downstairs like some newly-wedded bride!”


 


Valjean cannot help but chuckle at the thought. It is an amusing picture. 



“Alright, alright. As amused as I am by your creative imagination, I do suppose that we can find another way to do this. Perhaps it would be possible to very slowly move the chair downstairs with you in it, if we enlisted help. It is a wide staircase.”


 


“Ah yes, because that is a much more dignified picture(!)” he throws his hands up in defeat, “If you must, but I insist that I am at least given appropriate clothing first!”


 


“Of course,” Valjean soothes, “I wouldn’t want you to catch an illness of some sort! Ah, most of my clothing is a little on the larger side, but perhaps if we used the trousers from your uniform with one of my smaller shirts tucked in it would not be so bad of a sight. Come here.”


 


It is a long and awkward process by which Javert is eventually dressed, wrapped up and maneuvered down the stairs, during which Jean notes that if he wishes to carry with this practice then he must certainly go about converting one of the downstairs rooms into a new chamber for his companion. Nevertheless, it is with great difficulty and no small amount of effort that the two eventually set about their walk, Valjean pushing Javert from behind as smoothly as he is able over the uneven roads of suburban Paris. They walk a while, Jean conscious to keep to a path he feels is unlikely to stir any negative memories in Javert - or himself, for that matter of fact, taking a sharp turn the other way upon seeing the silhouette of the Musain in the background, only for his ears to be filled with the quiet roar of the Seine rushing in the distance. Javert, sharp as a bloodhound, is naturally fast to pick up on his thoughts. 


 


“You know, you do not have to tip-toe around every monument of Paris. No amount of censorship can undo the past, Jean. I should have thought you of all people would be all too aware of that.” he remarks, looking back at the man wheeling him. 


 


Valjean closes his eyes a moment, pausing. Leave it to Javert to call him out so bluntly. 



“I was simply trying to spare you the hardship of unwanted memories. Forgive me.”


 


The old Inspector shakes his head. “I have no need of such infantile tactics. I am a fully-grown man, Valjean. Not a child who needs to be shielded from the evils of the world. I do not need you to protect me.” 


 


“I confess, I do not quite know where to go. It seems around every turn is some unwanted image or disillusionment.”


 


“Then go nowhere. What I mean to say, of course, is do not intend to go anywhere. Let your feet and the Lord carry you. We’ll find our way.” 


 


Valjean blinks once again, convinced for a moment that he had misheard his companion’s oddly uplifting and optimistic words. Still, he has learnt not to call attention to such things. 


 


“Perhaps so. Alright, I shall try it your way. Let us go.”


 


The pair travel for an hour before they settle in a small park, just under 2 miles from their home. There they settle, among the deep bushy greens that hand overleaf, and Valjean settles himself on a wooden bench, beside Javert in his chair. The two say nothing to one another, but only sit, and observe the universe. As luck (or God) would have it, the Heavens are once again bright tonight, and a blanket of stars covers the two men as they sit together in what feels like, for once, companionable silence. As they continue to look up at the sky, the thought once again occurs to Valjean: he enjoys Javert’s company. Not in the way that one might tolerate a friendly guest  that slightly overstays his welcome, or in the way that he feels endeared by his dear daughter, but something else entirely. 


 


The two of them, at least in his own mind, are companions. 


 


What that means to himself or any other remains a mystery at this time, but he feels some strange surge of emotion at the thought: some odd blend of anticipation mixed in with a sense of comfort and contentment. At least when Cosette finally leaves to be her own beloved, he would have a companion. Or, at least, he hopes. As far as he knows, Javert has no other close family, nor any beloved of his own - certainly, not one that he has mentioned (the thought strangely peturbs him, but he puts it quickly out of his mind). He is happy, here and now, and for the foreseeable future, to look after Javert, come what may. 


 


And perhaps one day, just one day, Javert may feel the same way. 
