Title: Companion Planting
Work ID: 30310383
Author: synteis
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Depression, Mental Breakdown, Hurt/Comfort, Trauma, Recovery, POV Alternating, Suicidal Thoughts, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Fix-It, Gardens & Gardening, Food Issues, Biblical Scripture References (Abrahamic Religions)
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

Summary:
A post-Seine story set in the 1987 OBC version of Les Mis with Terrence Mann as Javert and Colm Wilkinson as Jean Valjean. 
When Valjean interrupts Javert's Suicide by returning too soon, Javert returns home with him instead of to the Seine. As Cosette's marriage approaches, Valjean sits at the edge of oblivion, sapped of his strength and vigour. As Javert's thinking realigns, they find themselves unerringly at odds once more as Javert reckons with Valjean's decline.

Work text:

Valjean emerged from the sewer carrying some kind of body, skin and clothes muddied with filth. 

Without warning or provocation, Valjean's voice exploded. Only once before had Javert seen him lose his temper, as Madeleine in that woman's room. Fantine, Valjean had whispered to her then as Javert lay on the ground, overpowered by a criminal.

In a whirlwind, Javert found himself making a bargain with a criminal for the first time. He watched Valjean walk away, an outline carrying a terrible burden as though he were on the road to Cavalry and knew himself to be a liar for the second time today. Once had been to the radicals at the barricade who had tried to change the world. The second time was to Valjean.

He had no plans to wait. He walked instead where his feet carried him as though he could run away from all that Valjean brought up in him.
 
It was all too much. Valjean's hands at his throat as he had worked the knife under those ropes. If he had turned it, it would have cut through his skin, allowed his blood to fill the streets and drip into Paris's sewers like the rest of the people who had fallen on the barricades. What a fitting death for a police spy, the end they all knew was waiting for them after one wrong move.
 
He had always been the observer, the investigator. Not for him to influence the sway of rebellions! Javert knew well he could barely tell falsehoods and yet they had sent him there to spy, to infiltrate, to influence!
 
He would have died happily in the aftermath of his failure. But then–
 
Valjean had been like a terrible angel. At last, the hunted had become the hunter. The stain his death would have laid upon that man! All could have seen his true character then! The death of an inspector, who could wash that from their hands! No almsgiving would hide it. In death, Javert would have been completely justified.
 
But no! That terrible man! He had released him and spoken to him as though Javert were a child receiving a sermon.
 
It had to have been a trick, like his Madeleine deception which had allowed him to scam money away from the hands of the law! But then he had offered his address. What could his purpose have been dragging that boy's body from the barricades? What trick could that be?
 
He wanted to hope– but no, what purpose was that!
 
And yet the truth had to exist. How would his heart weigh? Could it be possible that Lady Justice would see differently?
 
Was Valjean the way the world should work?
 
Impossible!
 
But if he was! That woman– That Fantine. Could it be?
 
No!
 
He had come down upon her like a hammer because the law had to run through individuals. It was the law who had spoken! Had she gone to jail as the law dictated, she would already have been dead on the day that Valjean escaped! How many times had Javert seen it in Toulon, that sickness of hers? Madeleine– no Valjean, had kept her alive in an unnatural way.  Javert had brought law and the law had righted the way of things!
 
And yet– even to Javert, even as that fearsome Jean Le Cric had come out, as Javert had always known he would, Javert was unharmed.
 
If Valjean were correct, if they did indeed live in Valjean's world then...
 
Javert could not belong here. Once he had handed in his resignation and been declined. What other solution was there? What laws of this land would condemn him if Valjean were correct?
 
To live in this uncertainty, knowing what Valjean had done... The way he had touched–
 
"Javert, is that you?" A voice came through the fog.
 
Valjean? 
 
No Valjean had to be an apparition! Javert looked back over the Seine, away from that tempting vision, his hands gripping the railing. How simple it would be to swing his leg over! To vanish between the current and put these thoughts to rest!

"Javert! I present myself to you! Finish this!"

He turned away from the caress of the river and towards That Man. His face was all in shadow beneath the brim of his hat but his white hair curled gently below the brim, catching the warm yellow light from the streetlights. He wore his bourgeois costume and his hand was coming, reaching out as though to touch Javert's own shoulder. No!
 
Javert fell away from the hand and Valjean's feet were in front of him as though the man himself were present! But it was impossible! 
 
Rain had soaked through his woollen trousers. The cobbles were rough and so hard and yet he was a mirage on top of them.
 
How often had Javert seen this man in his mind, clad always in a simple linen shirt in trousers? He would reach out, grasping, almost touching him; each time he would go to collar him his hands would find only empty air!
 
And now! To imagine that his face might shine with true goodness instead of a false mask as he had always presumed! The bagne was to leave a permanent stain so that those men it housed could be known and kept away from those good men! That was all Javert was good for, to stand guard between the two kinds of men on this earth!
 
A broad calloused hand at the back of his skull. As though a father would hold an infant!
 
His head crashed into the cobbles at the touch and a great storm unleashed from his entire body as fluids poured forth.
 
So this was reality then! Jean Valjean, who he had harmed, before him. He had never been at anyone's mercy as he was now. Not even Valjean himself mere hours before!
 
Perhaps he had changed his mind and come to finish it. That would be a relief. A mercy killing.
 
But no! to think of red staining the white of Jean Valjean's shirt! Of Javert spoiling this man's goodness!
 
No, he could not hope that Jean Valjean would kill him.

"Javert," that deadly voice was softer now. "It has been less than an hour since we separated. I promised I would return once I had left the boy with his grandfather. I am here so that you may arrest me."
 
Arrest? Arrest this man? How could he grasp this man in chains? Impossible! Would he have come willingly in Montreuil too?

But if he couldn't grasp this willing prey who had come to keep his promise, how could the law act through Javert ever again?
 
Javert dove his nails into the cobblestones, wanting to pull them up with bare hands! Let this entire world come crashing down! Javert understood it no more and without the fabric of law, what was there? An unconnected set of moments. 
 
The Seine in this part of the river would have been the same. Carrying Javert off without thought from him. The final freedom. But now that Valjean was here! No, he couldn't do it now. Javert should have jumped when he had the chance!
 
But now…

At last warm arms lifted him from the ground. What did Javert have in him now? Let Valjean drag his useless corpse where he would like he had with that boy of his. Perhaps Valjean's charity would extend to more than a pauper's burial.
 
Valjean didn't speak across their journey through Paris's streets. Away from the turmoil of the river, the wet wool of Valjean's coat was what soaked him and soon enough Javert found enough pride to at least stumble next to Valjean. Did he look a drunkard like this? Did they seem old friends? But Javert found he had enough of thinking. He was empty of all that had once held up his body. Perhaps some small light remained in a seldom glanced at corner of his mind which had kept him going.
 
Paris at least was an old friend and enemy. The streets were as familiar as the prison at Toulon or the small town of Montreuil-sur-Mer had been. The route they took was to the address Valjean had given him at the barricade. Number 55, Rue Plumet. This whole time he had told the truth. To think that this man would have given himself over to Javert after all of the efforts and years that he had put towards escape. Impossible! But Javert had never been given to fanciful dreams and where he had once felt assured of his entrance into Heaven, his certainty was shaken. 
 
Valjean opened the door and deposited him against the wall. No portress came down to meet them and no candles or lamps were lit so there were only the faintest shadows as Valjean removed his hat and clothes. There was a scrape as the tinderbox was brought out of its alcove. With the same ease as a scullery-maid, Valjean struck the steel into the flint over and over until a small ember caught the charcloth, lighting up his face alone. It seemed more worn than Javert remembered but it had been years since he'd had cause to study that face and it had aged since Montreuil. Valjean blew on the spark tenderly and the lines of his face softened as he went through the routine. As the spark grew into a flame, Valjean smoothly lowered a candle until the wick caught and the entrance was once more illuminated. 

Valjean stretched out the candle in his right hand which was broad and worn, well settled with wrinkles. Javert took the offered candle, hooking his finger through the loop of the holder and almost brushing Valjean's.
 
"We are alone in this house. What food there is, you are welcome to. My bed is free to you."  Valjean's voice was laboured, a far cry from his defiance earlier and his eyes seemed to sag in his face. His eyes had sparked at the barricades but that seemed to have been drained of anything but their colour.

Valjean broke eye contact and moved deep into the house, guided by only his hand on the all. Javert went to follow but in the absence of both Valjean and the wall he could barely stand and he had to place the candle down on the side table to steady himself. It was worse than his longest shift, his most terrible assignments. He haphazardly stripped off his coat and hat where once it would have been neatly hung. What point was there in the pantomime tonight? Valjean had seen– Javert flinched away from the notion.
 
How long was it before he moved from the wall? What did it matter? Was it even possible that he was here in Valjean's home? What madness! And yet he could only be mad.
 
He was an empty vessel. He passed straight to the stairs, candle holder clutched tightly in his hand. Following Valjean's footsteps was similar at least. 

At the top of the landing, there was candlelight coming from under one of the doors. He crept towards the door as silently as he knew. It was as though he possessed by the ghost of his past self. He needed to see Valjean again for a moment, then Javert could sleep. Perhaps away from Javert's presence, he would seem less troubled. What a thought! That Javert would be soothed to sleep by the easy posture and gentle eyes of that man! 
 
Valjean had left a crack in the door and through it, Javert could see two candles with the clear, bright white light of fine beeswax tapers. Before them, Valjean knelt in front of a prie-dieu. Ridiculous when his knees must be sore with age and wear and after the day he had had! The light left him a shadow in the room. His fine white hair caught it as though he were lighted by a halo itself.
 
What a luxury it was to look on Valjean like this. Javert had never appreciated it before. In Toulon and in Montreil, bah! 24601 and Madeleine had both been a product of his service to the law. If only he had known in Montreuil how rare his habit of following the mayor with his eyes would become, he might have savoured it like snuff instead of with grim duty.
 
How long did Javert stand there until Valjean's low voice ceased his prayers and he slowly got to his feet? Too long surely! But Javert's iron will had fled him completely now that his determination to die had been abated by this very man. Past that threshold now there was simply absence and he was helpless to any further act of resistance.
 
Would others see the strength beneath the rough shirt as he struggled somewhat to stand?
 
Was Valjean making towards the door? Javert dragged himself to the other room and closed the door behind him, the candle still in hand. He leaned against the door, breathing shallowly but no footsteps had followed him.

Whatever emotion he felt at that was not worth his attention.
 
There was no fire in the grate but Javert had little need of it. Nor did he do any toilette, simply deposited the candle on the table next to the bed before blowing it out.
 
The bed was simple and in line with Javert's tastes. The floor would have suited him equally.

Now that he was lying down, sleep lapped at him like a river against its banks. What could Javert do but give into it? He was tired of fighting.
 
Perhaps all of this would be over when Javert awoke. Let all of this thinking die the death he had twice avoided. But if he could keep Valjean…