Title: Apt Explanation
Work ID: 30521787
Author: MonsterBoyf
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: mentioned cosette fauchelevent/marius pontmercy - Freeform, Javert Lives, repressed javert, Past Suicide Attempt, Post-Seine, Fluff and Angst, Blood and Injury, Blood Drinking, can you tell i have a hand kink, spit, Alternate Universe - Vampire, javert limited pov, Period-Typical Homophobia, but its all internalized, Minor Original Character(s), My javert gets progressionally more autistic the more i write him
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 2/2

Summary:
Javert falls into the Seine with thoughts of Valjean, only to come back out of it in his home, in his clutch.

Work text:


Society often regards death as cold, icy. Drowning oneself in a river was sure to lead you to agree. Javert felt the frostbite settle into his fingertips firstly. But that's when experience began to contrast assumption. His lungs burnt like fire, seeming to ignite his every sense. His eyes, his nose, his throat all scorched from within until it worked into a sensation in his skin, fighting with the iciness seeping into his heavy woolen coat and uniform. 


 


Then death became even hotter, as though his blood boiled. There was a sensation of a separation of time though, as though he floated in a limbo before his very essence began to tear at the walls of his body. It was agonizing. He wanted to touch at his body, arms, skin, to make it stop, but he had no sensation of his body. He only felt the agony everywhere. It truly seemed as though he had no limbs to speak of. He could not feel if he had a mouth, or any body at all to let out a sound. Hell. It was his descent into Hell. 


 


There was then quiet, peace, nothingness. He felt nothing except some kind of passage of time. Like one is aware subconsciously time is passing, even when one sleeps. The concept of tangibility did not return to him. He didn't feel physical. He could think of how it felt to clench his fingers, toes, lick his lips, but he did not find any ability to do these things. It was purely a visual state, a recollection of what it was like to have senses. A lifetime of blinking, breathing, holding, running, Javert could easily recollect how these things felt without having to do them. Perhaps this was his purgatory. He felt neither blessed nor punished. He only felt as though he existed.


 


The final stage came unexpectedly, terribly. He felt an unpleasantness in his being, pain, discomfort. He felt warmth, extraordinary warmth, but only selectively. Perhaps he was physical again, and truly meant for Hell for his foolish attractions. This was Lucifer's flames taking the pieces of him. But no, no. It didn't spread, the heat remained in its place. Its place… his mouth. Yes, Javert knew that was where his mouth would be. He could not touch to see where his lips were, what filled his mouth with such heat. But he was aware he had one, and whatever he held there was surely causing the misery, the ache spreading across his .. head? 


 


Javert scowled, pushing whatever was at his lips away. Or at least he tried to. It was still darkness and silence, but he could feel something cold in his hair, raising his head. He was corporeal again it seemed, though he didn’t sense any of the rest of him, it was a beginning. He was capable of some sort of sound as well, it would seem, as he felt something vibrate in his throat as he tried again. Whatever was against him was sturdy, or perhaps Javert was just so weakened. He was a mere mortal after all. Perhaps he shouldn't fight the will of god, or the devil, whatever held him in this sensation. Maybe he was meant to accept the sensation. 


 


He felt nausea as he fell into this delusion. The warmth, it was bitter, medicinal. It slicked his entire mouth and throat, though his being tried to resist it going so far as to reach his throat. A little more aware, he was able to feel through his palm, his fingertips. He was indeed pushing against something solid. Solid as a man however. This was no wall or immovable force such as god. As he continued to resist, he felt more. He could tell a change in texture across this being. Rough skin, soft fabric, layers of it. He pulled at this. Maybe it was a pull rather than a push, but no. Perhaps if he could only find a way to see his assailant. He continued to fill his throat with the vibrations of noise, but he had no ability to hear them. Surely not words, with the liquid metal coating his throat and teeth. 


 


Trying to split his focus, he both continue to force away what fed into his mouth, and figure out how to see again. He had body, meaning he must have eyes. They must be closed, as he didnt feel an excruciating pain as though they were no longer within him. The seine would not take his eyes. He had eyelids, controlled by a few dozen muscles in his face, if he could just find his connection to them. His mouth was still miserably being filled. The bitter metal seemed to endlessly flow into it. He focused hard, trying to flex all the muscles in his face. He would work backwards from there. He imagined making the tartest expression possible and attempted it. His lifelong scowl had helped him here. His face was so adapted to flexing those muscles. He managed to feel that sense come back to him. He felt the tightness in his brows, his nose, and most importantly his eyelids. He certainly had a face, and was using it to give surely the ugliest look this being had ever seen. Blink. Blink. Open your eyelids. Such a simple gesture but a struggle that seemed momentarily monumental. 


 


Success! Colors and shapes came back to him again. Everything was warm and muted, very unlike the stark white of imagined heaven, or eternal red burning flames. Much brown, cream. The Colors were shapeless, until he was given white, the pale peachy of flesh. These made a person, faceless and generally formless. From the angle Javert felt his head to be in, they were above him, but close. The inability to see their face disturbed him most. Was this what the blind saw when they looked at their fellow man? He had to consciously blink, hoping he could focus. In a way, it did. He could see where skin ended and white hair began. The shadows and light implied them to be close enough for Javert to be able to reach up and touch. The more he blinked, the easier it became. It was as though he were learning to walk once again, how to tie binds around another again. The body never forgets, only need to face reminders. With each blink, he gains more focus. The nausea has a place to go suddenly, when he is finally about to see that it is Valjean, that the saintly man surrounded in white is over his being. He is certain it is Hell now. A Hell more made for him, his specific crimes. A simple eternal flame would never punish him. 


 


He cannot stop blinking now however. His body goes against his will and allows him to focus further. He can recognize the curls in his hair, the way his brows are pushed together, his somber expression. It is not as though Javert were not already aware. Even without his sight, he could have created Valjean. He saw it in nightmares, dreams,  and thoughts, for thirty years. Was that why he was here? Was Valjean the one thing Javert's mind could reliably create? Had he'd paid so little attention to anything else in life? It was only fair, he concluded bitterly. He chose to fix his life about the white star that was shining above him. Was it his hand that was in Javert's hair? Now that he contemplated it, he certainly felt the pressure, where his skull pressed down against the fullest parts of Valjean's large hand . Valjean's lips moved, surely speaking. Javert only had a low buzz to listen to however. Perhaps he had done deaf with the roaring water. Javert looked down as far as he could. He saw the opposite lip of a cup. It was a simple wooden cup without handle. What was Valjean forcing him to drink from? Javert had to close his eyes in order to move his other arm, take it and use it to push the cup up and away from his face. He must have succeeded because the fluid stopped trailing down his throat, and the warmth it brought instead fell on his very much tangible chest. 


 


"

please

." He heard, warbled as though Valjean were speaking from a separate room entirely. Like it was a whisper spoken distantly from the ear it was meant for. There were more words, but the vowels and subtle tones were jumbled and lost to the air between them. Perhaps Javert was still underwater, so he could only gain the impression of speaking. Valjean brought the cup back, and Javert grabbed his wrist to fight against him. He was so weak though. He always thought he’d been so much stronger than Valjean, at least in his moral code. Everything of his he could even compare to Valjean had been washed away in the river. He continued to feed the liquid into Javert’s mouth and Javert made that tart face again, though this time only to communicate his disgust. He could feel the vibration of valjean speaking, a buzz coming from his chest that was so close. Javert needed to find use of his legs again, so that he could kick free of Valjean’s hold. He shouldn’t be held like this. His icy death in the Seine was to fight delusions like this. He wanted to make blasphemous curses, truly realizing how perfectly tailored this torture was for him. He knew it wasn’t true and that it shouldn’t be, and that was the most punitive aspect. He could hear himself groan. Like plugging his ears and speaking, it reverberated in his brain. Valjean’s chest still buzzed with words wasted on Javert. Javert blindly reached out, fisted valjean’s clothing and tried to shove him. Immovable as a wall. He had never changed. Did god ever feel envy of this creation he made? Valjean was so human, flesh and blood, yet he was as unwavering in his strength and morals as a god. His kindness was as unrelenting as the current of the Seine. 


 


Valjean’s voice came back gradually, coming back to him like a sun revealing itself from the clouds. He caught the end of his last sentence, and then the entirety of the next.



“You must drink, Javert.” The inspector shook his head mutely. This liquid smeared over his lips. He heard a sigh, or more.. A breath of relief. “Ecoutez?” Javert chose not to respond, but something must have given him away. The hand against the back of his head adjusted. He could feel every finger tip and how it pressed against his scalp. He held it so gingerly. Not as though someone threatening harm, but someone aiding the ill. Someone holding up a lover. Javert felt another wave of nausea. “You must drink, it will aide you. Please, Javert.” Javert suddenly felt painfully alive again. Hearing Valjean plead for his cooperation brought him back and instilled an ache in the heart Javert forgot. He wasn’t aware of it till it began to ache at valjean’s 

sincerity

. He had heard him plead so often in life. Even the fates that designed his eternal punishment knew what he had denied. He opened his eyes, and that ache sunk even further into his soul. Valjean’s eyes were sorrowful, his brows knit in concern. Javert swallowed, and some of that concern ebbed. Valjean nodded softly. “Good, vey good..”


 


The cup was finished and emptied with Javert subdued into obedience. Valjean placed the cup somewhere beyond Javert’s sight, leaning over his body. Javert couldn’t move his head, or perhaps simply chose not to. His head remained in whatever position Valjean willed. He simply closed his eyes and tried not to consider that he was surely being held by his former prisoner, his former mayor, his former… Valjean was many things. He tried not to consider that the iciness, then the burning, of his death was surely by Valjean’s hand. Valjean had brought him from the water to where they were. Dedicated himself to returning sense to Javert. 



“Valjean,” he attempted to speak, clutching Valjean's clothes. His throat burnt and pained him as he tried to articulate true thoughts. Valjean hushed him, and by the cruel hand of god, moved closer, held Javert closer to himself. 



“Don’t speak. You’ll be well.”



“Valjean,” he attempted more sternly. He was never one to listen to valjean the first time he asked for something. 



“You only just came back to us. Do not exert yourself so soon.”



“Why?” Javert croaked. He didn’t speak of exerting himself. He didn’t speak of the medicine. Why would Valjean save his life? Why would he risk his own life to save Javert’s once, twice? Why would Valjean place himself in Javert’s punitive waters?



“I couldn’t let you die in such a way.” Valjean understood what he truly spoke of. Javert nearly sighed with relief, believing that Valjean thus wanted it by his own hand. He wanted to control Javert’s life, just as Javert had once controlled his. He passed it by in the alleyway, but regretted it. He saved Javert to enact what he deserved. “I cannot let you die. I- i didn’t know what to do, so i did what i could. I’m sorry, Javert.” 



“Why,” Javert coughed, “why apologize to me?” 



“You let yourself fall from the bridge, and I couldn't allow God to take you.”



“I sought to leave the memory of you.” valjean didn’t respond, only letting out a breath.



“That is why i apologize, then.” 



“You should have allowed me to drown.” Javert closed his eyes, trying to erase that expression of blank shock from his eyes. 



“You may leave when you get return of your senses. You may go where you please. With my daughter gone, I will fade silently. You won’t worry yourself with me any longer.” 



“Valjean,” Javert interrupted roughly, but quietly. He was not ready for yelling as of yet. A skill he never thought he might lose grip on. “Silence, please.” he opened his eyes as he was released. Valjean eased his body down, letting his head lay on what was under him. Were they in a bed together? He looked and felt underneath himself. Yes, they were on top of a tawny brown blanket. Valjean was lowering his head onto a pillow. Javert could now see that he had been held up from Valjean's lap, his legs now beside Javert's body. Javert clenched his eyes shut as Valjean moved from the bed, standing up before it. He took the cup in his heads again. 



"I shall let you rest."  Javert listened to his steps as he walked away. He didn't hear the click of a door, meaning he either had none or Valjean wanted to be able to hear him should he call. Javert wanted to groan at the care in the gesture if it were the latter. 


 


He was amazed to not be in more pain than he was. He recalled bodies previously pulled from the rivers. They came back from the Seine's grip mangled. Yet Javert felt well, other than his nausea at whatever Valjean had force fed him. Javert stared up at the ceiling as he clenched and relaxed his hands, feeling for each bend of muscle. He used some strength to bend his arms at the elbows, putting his hands on his chest like a corpse. This is how he should be at this point. Dressed and displayed for few mourners. This was not his casket however. This was a bed within Valjean's home. He was in Valjean's home, as he seemed to find himself in every collection of years. He wasn't here for an arrest however. He had no shackles, no strength, to drag the aged man away. More so, he didn’t have the ability to. He did not need to look deep inside his breast to find a lack of ill intent. The only misdeed he wished to enact was to be cruel enough to Valjean for him to realize he should not grant him any niceties. He raised his hands to be able to hold his face. His facial hair had lost some of its coarseness. It had been long since he had groomed himself. The distraught that walked him to the Seine did not care for appearances. 


 


He wasn't wet any longer, that was self sufficient. His clothes were not his own. He wore a nightgown, the sleeves cutting short. Surely Valjean's. The two were of the two opposite ends of height. Javert grabbed the fabric, and felt the hem rise up his calves. Ah, his legs. He hadn't worked to regain them. He concentrated on flexing, getting a sense of his muscles. Was this what it was like to return from comatose? How far had Javert gone before Valjean saved him?


 


Without him there to cloud his conscious further, Javert finally considered how Valjean saved him. While he was still built strong and immovable, he had certainly aged. The two were not exempt from the passage of time. And yet, he was able to come into the tremulous water of the Seine, take Javert's sturdy body, and bring him to safety. He would then have to bring Javert to his home. He wouldn't have assistance. Valjean rarely accepted assistance, and the river had invited no guests for Javert's fall. Valjean, pushing well past fifty and hair entirely white with age, was able to do all this? While Javert himself was strong and capable, he could not delude himself that he could do what Valjean supposedly did. He wasn't as quick, as fortified as he once was at Toulon. He couldn't even resist the revolutionaries at the barricade. For God's sake, it took all his strength in that moment just to push his body up to sit up proper. The room was rather plain, not in an intentional way, but as if it had suddenly been cleared and had yet to be filled once again. Where Valjean had set the cup was a nightstand. All it had now was a chamber stick with candle unlit. There was a fireplace with a weak flame burning in it. Despite this, Javert felt neither cold nor hot, though a touch to his skin proved it icy. It was fascinating, to feel his skin and see no damage to it. No scars, bruises, lacerations from rocks or branches within the water. He could pass as simply having come from a bath.


 


Javert was surprised to find he could stand, although his knees shook. He braced himself on the bedpost as he looked at the room. What had been here before that must be moved out so abruptly? There was an air in the room, as though something was unsaid, or perhaps left behind. Javert carefully walked himself to the chair by the fire, bracing himself on it's back. It was a soft pink and felt unfit for a home for Valjean. He had mentioned a daughter before. Javert braced his body against the wall and gradually made his way to the doorframe. 



"Valjean," he called. His voice was a little more sure now. It wasn’t long before Valjean appeared in the hallway, looking shocked to have been called. Javert dipped his head and sighed deeply. 



"Where is my uniform?" 



"It's still soaked. I've hung it up." Javert groaned in annoyance, but Valjean must have took it as a sign of pain. 



"Are you in pain? You shouldn't be moving about."



"I will be fine." Javert rubbed his head, fighting nausea. He felt the urge to expel whatever Valjean had fed him in his throat. "What did you make me drink?" There was a pause. Javert still felt Valjean's eyes on him, but he was hesitating. 



"It was simply medicine."



"It was repugnant." 



"You should lay back down," Valjean fretted. Javert resolutely ignored him, making his way by bracing the wall. He had never been about the house before, but it was better than sitting in that room, knowing Valjean was waiting on him. They were supposed to be free of one another. That was Javert's goal. 



"I will be fine," Javert forced through gritted teeth. Valjean watched his struggle, before vanishing into a room. He returned with a plain cane with silver handle. 



"Please." Javert stared at it, and then Valjean. He held the cane out and both hands, and looked at Javert sincerely, expectantly. Javert looked away and snatched the cane. He settled his weight on it, and felt a little less feeble. 



"I assume mine was lost to the river." Valjean nodded. 



"You can make use of that one. I have another." 



"Thank you," Javert grumbled, moving on with the help of the cane. "I will get another shortly." He left the hallway and came to the rest of the house. Valjean followed behind him silently and from a slight distance. The dining room table only had four chair about it, with a candelabra sitting in its center. Glancing to the windows, he could see it was still night. The city was quiet like this, forgettable. "You furnish like a poor man." 



"I was for a time," Valjean responded easily. His tone wasn’t cutting, simply like he was stating a fact. The way he did that always made Javert want to grind his teeth. His past so shameful and bleak he talked about like it was nothing more than a foggy memory. He spoke of Toulon, of his soul behind saved with an even regard. Javert wondered how he would be were he able to do the same. What kind of man would he be if he could so carelessly toss around the fact of his lineage, his deteriorating morals that lead him to the bridge. Valjean knew neither of these things. No one knew either, but it seemed most unfair with him. Javert had so much of Valjean's life in his fingers. He excused himself with the fact that nineteen years of that life were directly under his eye. He played a large part in Valjean's backstory, were Valjean only existed as his present. 



"Where did your wealth go, Monsieur Madeleine?" Valjean let out a breath as he smiled at only the corners of his lips. 



"I had to hide from you, and raise a girl." 



"I remember a girl, I remember chasing you." Valjean nodded, regarding Javert directly now. He had to look up for them to exchange eyes. 



"Cosette." 



"Where is she now?" He asked as he stepped away, crossing to a chair to finally sit. His knees had relaxed most of their shaky, but he needed to escape that look. 



"Married." 



"Has that much time passed?" Chasing Valjean through the streets of Paris seemed much more recent than that. It felt like at most months, not years. Valjean chuckled softly. He adjusted a clock that rested on the mantle with delicate hands. Hands so rough and strong always seemed wrong on Valjean's body. They were right when they tugged Javert from his chair at the tavern, when he resisted leaving after Fantine's death. Not like this though. 



"I do feel as though she grew up too fast myself. She is a lady now." 



"How long has she been wed?" You could hear Javert's profession in his voice, in the way he edged forward in the chair. 



"A week." Javert sat back, clearing his throat. 



“Ah, congratulations.”



“Thank you. Her and her husband, Marius, will visit me when they return home.”



“Marius…” Javert repetition. He stared at valjean’s feet. His shoes were clean, meaning he either changed them or cleaned them after the river. How long had Javert been in this house. 



“He was the original reason we met at that barricade.” Valjean turned to face him. His hands were held together at his chest in a way that reminded Javert so much of monsieur le mare. He did that diplomatic little pose that shut himself off when he would address the town at large. Before Javert’s suspicions grew, he found it odd how it reminded him of Jean Valjean swearing to kill him, hands cuffed together. It all made sense with time.



“How serendipitous.” Valjean smiled and nodded. 



“I believe god intended for me to come into that tavern.” Javert scoffed like it was an terrible joke. 



“Were there a god, we would not be like this.” 



“How would we be?” Javert froze, then looked up at valjean. He only blankly stared back, unreadable. 

Together

 Javert was urged to say. He wouldn’t have had to be dragged to this home on his death bed. He would have walked in behind valjean. They would have entered speaking amicably, exchange smiles and light looks. Were there a god, he would not have made his society so. 



“I wouldn’t be here,” he answers instead. He blames the weakness of his response on the healing, even though he feels no pain. 



“Maybe it was not yet in his plan for you to die, so he sent me. I wasn’t meant to cross that bridge. It was only whim.” Valjean looked at the fire, taking a prod and adjusting the log inside.



“God did not force you to join me in the water. You cannot blame every whim and action on a higher being.”



“But my soul was cleansed by him. My fixed morals control what i do. He was the one who mended them.” Javert had a bitter taste in his mouth. He felt his face fall into its familiar scowl.



“You could have watched.” Valjean turned, looking like a deer caught on the road.



“What?”



“You could have remained on the bridge and watched, or acted as though you saw nothing. I made no plea for help.” 



“I told you I couldn't let you,” he argued with a soft tongue that Jean le cric would likely scoff at if he heard it used on Javert.



“You once promised you would kill me. You gave me your sacred promise you would escape, and then you did. Yet your other promises, you go directly against them.”



“Javert…” 



“Why save me? Why more than once? How much debt must i owe to you?” Javert realized he was standing, he felt his feet on the floor and his cane in hand. No, not his, valjean’s. All of this was Valjean’s. Valjean stepped forward, a mother to her upset child. 



“You owe me nothing, Javert.” 



“What did you save me out of then? Friendship? 

Love

?” Javert sneered at the word. It fell out of him and left a hollow feeling inside, like his soul was plummeting. Valjean’s expression was concerned, almost frightened. “Thirty years. Thirty years of antagonizing and the moment i try to free you, you refuse. What kind of glutton for punishment are you?” 



“Is it so inconceivable that i am able to forgive you?”



“Yes! You do not befriend your enemies! Any lesser man would have allowed me to the Seine. Any lesser man would have killed me when he had the chance in that alleyway.” Javert found himself walking, pacing the space between the dining area and the sitting room. “Any lesser man would have fired when they found you in the sewers.” 



“But you didn’t. I didn’t.” Javert stopped, staring at his hand that was free of the cane. He no longer needed it, yet his hand refused to release it. The free hand simply rested open, showing Javert his own unscathed palm. He remembered the weight of the gun in his hand. “We are not lesser men. We are the men we’ve come to be.”



“Always been,” Javert corrected sharply. 



“No, the Javert I first met in that prison would not stand here. He wouldn’t have spared me in that sewer.” 


 


The Javert that first met Valjean did not know who he was, or even what valjean could become. The Javert that resided in Toulon didn’t understand what anguishing feeling he was laboring under his ribs. Even when he left Toulon, he still misnamed that string that kept him tied to Valjean. It wasn’t until he was denied his continued investigations of paris did he correct his address of that string. He had left the prison with a passion that was so hot he only knew it as anger. He didn’t consider the curiosity that resided with it. The intrigue, the pleasure, the despair. He attributed them all to the chase, to being a predator with a single prey in his world. He greatly underestimated the aim of his feelings.


 


Javert returned back to his room without another word. He rested the cane against the doorframe and shut his door. He would only use so much of Valjean’s kindness. Not that he deserved any of it. 


 


Javert’s sleep was black and empty, simply a way to move the hours forward, until he slipped into a dream. He and Valjean sat in that room together, chairs facing together and wine and food placed between them. Valjean spoke endlessly of something Javert would immediately forget once he awoke. Javert simply nodded along, at times laughed at his friend. Valjean was less reserved when they had worked through two bottles of wine together. His words came easy as his smile. A true smile. A life spent hiding and running meant he had walls around him until it came to moments like this. Javert did not sit and drink with Jean le cric, or monsieur Madeleine. He felt the warmth of alcohol in his veins with Jean, simply Jean. At one point, Jean rose from his chair with giggles and Javert laughed as he fought against him. Jean was trying to make him drink, like a parent to a babe. Some wine dripped from the cup in their fussing. It was such a red that it stained Javert’s nightshirt. Eventually Valjean was able to bring the lip of the cup to Javert’s own lip and tilt it until he was drinking. He did, holding onto Valjean’s wrist as he did. It was a sweet, fruity nosed wine. Javert not only obeyed to drinking it, but did so happily. Valjean practically loomed over him, leaning on the back of the chair with a knee on the seat beside Javert’s legs. Javert could feel him watching carefully. When Javert woke up, all he recalled was the sweetness of that pitch black red wine, how it spilled on him in their tussle, and how valjean had praised him for doing what he was forced to. 



 



Javert’s clothes were dry in the morning, or at least all but his heavy coat was. He found his clothes folded before the bedroom door. Valjean, such a courteous host. Javert took them quickly and shut the door again, hoping to not be met with him. Changing from the night shirt, he noticed the stain. He had made Valjean spill some of that medicine when he woke last night, but he wasn’t aware of the dark red stain it left. It made it look as though Javert had bled through his shirt, despite having no injuries when he woke up. It would surely make a permanent stain on Valjean’s shirt, one he had provided simply so Javert could be warm and dry. Javert tossed it to the bed as though it insulted him, settling to put on his own shirt. As he did his buttons, he considered how Valjean had to do the reverse for him. He had to strip a wet and dying Javert of his clothing and redress him in his own. Another claim he laid on Javert, although intentional this time. Hopefully, he viewed it as charitable, as nothing more than any doctor or nurse would do. He hoped it was only like that for him. 


 


Javert felt much less alien in his own clothing, even if it smelled of Valjean’s soap. It would be replaced with wear. Soon, Valjean would again only exist as an infection on Javert’s soul. Javert left the bedroom, keeping a careful eye for Valjean as he moved about. There was no suggestion of a limp today. In fact, Javert felt as capable as he did when he was about thirty years younger. The only implication of his age he felt was his face and posture. Valjean was nowhere in sight, the house deathly silent. He surely would not still be sleeping, as it was already midday. Javert wondered his way into the living room again. He looked at the clock on the mantle, the two ostentatious silver candlesticks. They stuck out in the plain house. Like Javert, they were obviously something that was brought in without the attention of it belonging. There was a bookshelf as well, and Javert’s eyes roamed the titles on their spines. He pulled one and glossed over it. An at home medical guide. A very odd choice, but perhaps a precaution for when he had a much younger guest living with him. Children were often hazardous to themselves. The book seemed relatively untouched, save for a selection of pages that were dog eared. They talked of wounds, and how to assist with them. Things as minor as a child’s scrape to deep cuts that came from attacks or duels. How often had Valjean saved others? Was the book more meant for himself? Valjean certainly painted himself as a hero. Javert roughly put the book back in its place, settling to not consider it any further. 


 


Javert turned towards the entry way as he heard the door creak open. Valjean came in with a bag over his shoulder, hanging heavy. He stopped and froze when he looked up and saw Javert. As if he were surprised he was still here. 



"Javert," he breathed, adjusting the bag to be behind him, "how are you?"



"Well." He looked very pointedly at the bag and then Valjean. "You went out." Valjean followed the look before chuckling and nodding. Monsieur Madeleine. 



"Yes, yes I had to get some things. I apologize for my absence." 



"Don't. I can care for myself." 



"Ah, good." Valjean was quick to head to the kitchen. Javert followed a few steps behind, simply watching Valjean. "I was not prepared to have guests when I found you, so I needed to get," he paused, looking at the dark wine bottle in his hand. It had no label, but was full, "some more to drink." 



"You could have left with some doctor or such." It would have been much simpler for him to just drop Javert off on someone else's doorstep like an unwanted dog or child. There was no sound reason Valjean should bring his enemy into his home and then go out of his way to attend to him. Valjean looked at him with a certain passive sadness or anger. He looked like an argument was on his tongue, but he stayed silent. 



"I unfortunately do not know of any doctor in this city. It was quicker to bring you here where it was warm than to pick at the city." Something about the dark green bottles held Javert's attention. He watched as Valjean put them away in a cabinet. The glass was black where the liquid gathered. There were three of them, all placed together and then securely shut away in the cabinet. Valjean returned to his satchel and pulled a banquette wrapped in paper, a coin purse, and a handful of flowers. He smiled to himself as he pulled a vase from another cabinet and placed them in it.



"You've grown accustomed to a daughter." Valjean laughed at Javert's comment, placing the vase on the table. 



"Yes, but these were simply given to me by a child I met on the streets." 



"You attract a great many people, for someone who hides." 



"Perhaps I'm just not as good as I seem." His smile was turned onto Javert, playful. "You've always managed to find me, after all."



"I'm very capable when it comes to collecting what I want," Javert replied, feeling unsteady all of a sudden. Valjean nodded softly and returned to the kitchen to put the satchel away. 



"Yes, I expect that's why you have your title, inspector."



"Who the better is is still unclear. It has taken us thirty years to get here." Javert threw a look to Valjean's home. Thirty years to stand face to face, places known and lacking secrecy. A younger Javert would have saw their end differently. He would see Valjean in chains, or dead by Javert's hand. But this is how they had ended after all this time, simply aware of one another, although perhaps not closely. No one was ever aware of all Javert's parts.


 


Valjean nodded, and there was something affectionate about his smile. 



"And here we are. I am much more satisfied to have our possible last meeting here, rather than that sewer." Javert hadn't considered that, had he succeeded, that would have been their final meeting. Their final exchange was with Valjean's eyes closed and face to the wall, waiting for Javert to pull the trigger. Javert's last words to the man who infected his life would have been a strangled, "Turn Around." What impression would that have left on Valjean? Losing such a part of his life after receiving a command he had only given less than an hour before? If Javert had truly died in the Seine as he intended, Valjean would have been left with the memory of Javert's cowardice. 



"You believe we will meet again after this?" 



"It would be unlike you to not show up in my life when I should least expect it." Javert felt his shoulders slacken with an exhale. Valjean was being humorous, friendly with Javert. He expected Javert in his life. 



"You've grown used to my chasing."



"I suppose. Forgive me if I say I don't find it as threatening now however." 



"I worry for your mind if you should react positively towards being hunted." 



"Are you hunting?" Valjean turned the question so quick on him Javert almost lost balance. His tone was not sharp or cruel. It was like he was talking to a child, engaging their interests and excitement with conversation. He turned his head like a curious dog as he looked at Javert. Javert opened his mouth, but shut it before the words that first came to him could fall out. 



"I intended to give up all my goals falling into the Seine."



"Then you do not hunt me. Perhaps you simply follow."



"I will leave and you'll be free of me." 



"I only ask that you are certain of your health before going." Javert clenched his jaw. Valjean, so courteous, charitable, saintly, it was aggravating. Javert used to think it because Valjean was a criminal, and should thus act in greed and malicious intent. He had previously assumed that he hated his generosity because it was a lie. Valjean had given most of his life to others by the current moment, however. He gave his life to raising another's child, to helping guide a small town to prosperity, to aiding Javert in realization. Valjean almost existed for others. Were it a lie, he surely would not have held it so long. Though, Javert seemed successful in this. "Would you like to eat with me?" valjean moved on so easily. 


 


Javert found himself unable to rest calmly in his armchair. This was too familiar, too similar to his dream. Their chairs weren't as close, and faced more to the mantle than each other. Valjean had sliced the baguette and some cheese. Watching him do so made Javert feel nauseous however. Perhaps he wasn't as well as he thought he was. It was odd though, how low his appetite was for someone who hadn't eaten in a day. Valjean poured wine from those previous bottles into glasses, and that was infinitely of more interest. Javert watched it fall into the glass and swirl around its walls. He wetted his lips and held onto his knee. 



"Where did you get that?" Valjean glanced up from his task at Javert's question. He followed the inspectors eyes to the bottle and made a small noise. 



"Ah, I," he placed the cork back inside, "have an arrangement with a friend. I hope you can enjoy it."



"You have a friend who crafts wines?" Javert took the proffered glass and stared as he swirled it softly. It was mesmerizing in the oddest manner. He couldn't notice the almost timid way Valjean spoke. 



"I'm the only one trusted with product. They-they have yet to disappoint me." Javert sipped from the glass. It was rich, earthy, almost like walnut. Javert had a lifetime of wine drinking, but this was something special. It covered his tongue like rich sugar, and one sip had him immediately wanting more. He licked his lips of any remnant before drinking again, more deeply. There was no fermented funk. Javert could have been fooled into thinking it were a fruit juice, if it had tasted like any fruit he had known that is. He had never tasted anything like this however. When he put his glass down to ask on it, he found Valjean looking at him. His eyes were focused and his posture was a little hunched. Javert almost swallowed at the intensity, but instead just sat straighter in the chair. 



"It is an excellent product for a hobbiest." Valjean blinked as though he were pulled from a trance. He sat back as well, nodding. 



"I'm glad you like it." He took a drink as well, seeming much less affected. Javert was unaware of how tightly he clutched his own glass. 



"I hope it doesn't offend that I don't have an appetite for food," he spoke as he glanced at the abandoned bread and cheese. Valjean looked at him with concern.



"Do you still feel ill?"



"Please don't sound so fretful." Surprisingly, valjean smiled, a soft self deprecating look. 



"I'm afraid it's too ingrained in my nature." 



"You've grown too used to taking care of others." Javert was met with that expression again, that passive exhaust. Valjean crossed his legs, and it felt almost pointed. 



"I would rather that than be heartless. It satisfies me helping others." Javert thought many cruel and shameful thoughts simultaneously. 

Maybe you were meant to be a slave of Toulon 

and 

even someone like me

? A love for him meeting a past misdiagnosed hatred. 



"The people of Montreuil-sur-Mer always were attracted to your sanctity." Javert took another drink and nearly shuddered. He cleared his throat softly. "Many maidens and wives fancied you there and were noisy in their whispering." Valjean laughed in good humor. Javert fixed a hot palm on the glass. 



"You listened to them?" 



"Not by choice." This made Valjean laugh even more. His smile was so friendly and light. 



"But an inspector sees and hears all, doesn't he?"



“It is a symptom of the occupation, yes.” Valjean nods, and settles back in his chair. He stares at the glass in his palm.



“It did not take you long to doubt the madeleine identity. The way you looked when we first met in my office, I thought you were going to pull cuffs from your pockets.”



“You looked much more well kept, but i cannot forget a face. Especially yours.” valjean looked up with brows raised; but Javert quickly averted his own eyes to his glass. His muscles were tight with remorse as to why he would ever let that fall out of his mouth. He sounded like a love sick boy. Was this how Valjean’s daughter was won over as well?



“You’ve always been so dedicated.” Valjean says it so sincerely. It's the tone of an old spouse, rather than a former adversary. Domesticity practically drips from the words. Javert feels nausea return in a wave, though not the same form as when he looked at the food. It was as though he found himself suddenly at the edge of a cliff, hundreds off feet from the ground. Like he was met with dreadful news that made his stomach lurch.


 


“Javert!” The inspector blinked and looked at the hand Valjean cried out about. He had somehow shattered the glass in his clutch. He opened his hand to find large chunks of glass there. The wine was thick on him. It was impossible to tell it from the blood he was surely starting to pour. Javert simply stared as his hand dripped onto Valjean's formerly tidy floors. The drips fell in a steady rhythm on the wood. When Valjean grabbed his wrist, it was like a shock suddenly ran through him. He blinked up in wide eyed shock as Valjean was suddenly standing there in front of him, holding his wrist in both hands and looking at his hands. Javert tried to resist but it was so weak Valjean didn't even address it. His look was intense. He picked out pieces of glass from his palm. Instead of putting them on the table however, he simply held them limp in his hand. His gaze on Javert’s hand was intense enough that the loose blood and wine should boil. 



“I am fine. If you’ll-

what-

” The word left as the sharpest exhale. He clutched the arm of the chair in his good hand as Valjean leaned in. He was licking Javert’s palm, hot tongue over the lines of it. He sucked on the space between Javert’s thumb and index finger, as though it were venom that might have slipped into Javert’s palm. “Valjean,” Javert attempted to draw his attention with a commanding tone. It was strangled however, like Valjean held Javert’s entire soul in his hands and mouth now. He licked between Javert’s fingers and the inspector felt the arm he clutched the chair with shake. The hand valjean held surely did as well. “

Jean Valjean

,” Javert whispered like a warning as Valjean went so far as to suck the blood from his fingers. This surely couldn’t all be the fault of wine? No sane man would care for a wound like this. More insane would it be for another man to accept it and just allow this gesture to happen. There was something animalistic about Valjean grooming the blood from Javert. And Javert certainly felt feral feeling it, watching it. He understood how it felt to be a dog on a short leash wrapped around the master’s hand. He couldn’t even lean away or move his hand. He could only stare and gape. Valjean’s mouth was eventually done. He stood up a little straighter and, Javert lied to himself saying he didn’t whisper blasphemous swears as he saw it, spit into the hand that held the glass. Surely he hadn’t actually pulled any glass from the cut? Javert was alarmed beyond words, so he only started with wide eyes. Valjean proceeded to look over  Javert’s hand as though he had no recollection of what he just did. There was just a minor pink slash where the glass had cut now. Javert’s hand was released so Valjean could pull out a handkerchief to wrap the glass in. His glass and spit. Javert didn’t even drop his hand. It hovered there as though Valjean might take it again.



“What did we drink?” Javert mumbled, staring at Valjean and only seeing him. Valjean stared back, and one could see the dread slowly pale him. His lips parted just barely, then closed. He took a slow breath, his shoulders visibly rising and falling with it.



“Blood. It was blood.”



“What 

are you?”

 Javert finally was able to move his arm again. He braced both arms off the armchair. He had never shown fear in his life and career, he prided himself on that. Yet he let himself appear absolutely trapped and terrified for valjean. He could not look like anything else without being a lie. Valjean set down the little parcel of shattered glass. He unwrapped it and took a large sharp for himself. Javert watched in frozen shock as he scraped it against his own skin, opening a cut of his very own.


 


Javert didn’t process his motions until it was too late, until he was already standing with Valjean’s hand in his own and sucking at the cut on his palm, until he was letting his tongue run over calloused and aged hands. There was that beautiful taste again, of sugar and earth. The most basic of pleasures so strong they overwhelmed Javert. He was so greedy in that moment. He dug his tongue into the cut to try and pull more. He stopped Valjean’s resistance, pulling him close as he tried to pull the opposite direction. Valjean was practically a breath away, looking up at Javert as he indulged an instinct he didn’t know he had until Valjean’s blood hit the air. 



“Javert.” And Javert finally realized where he was, who skin his mouth was against. Valjean said it so soft. Not the scandalous whisper that Javert had let out. He was a man being scolded for passions, yet they weren’t a couple. They weren’t lovers and yet so much of what came from Valjean sounded as so. Javert stared at the hand in his as the world started to become infinitesimal. 



“What did you do, Valjean..?” valjean took the hand Javert held and reached out. Javert stared at him with a genuine fear while Valjean only returned it with tenderness. His thumb came to Javert’s lips and pushed into his mouth, against his teeth. It stroked his canine like it was Javert’s cheek. 



“What could I to keep you alive.” The tooth was longer now than it had ever been, like Javert was nothing more than a wolf, a beast. 



“How long?” he eased Valjean’s wrist away, holding it just away from his face. “How long have you been this way?” 



“My escape from Toulon. Nights after.” 



‘Your- your strength. The walls, your age.” Valjean silently nodded. He was in Javert’s mind, saw the circle it was walking. That anxious lurch in Javert’s body returned again. He was thrown too close to the edge once again. His clutch on Valjean’s wrist went tight. “The immortality. Valjean, is that what kept you alive?” 



“You are the only death that’s made an attempt on me. I’m certain i would not have made it to this moment were it not for this sickness.”



“And you made me one with you…” 



“You had already moved to God when I pulled you. I only had this option.” Javert’s clutch finally grew tight enough that Valjean showed discomfort. He took a step from Javert, or attempted to. 



“I fell into that river because of you. I couldn’t live loving you and you instead give me eternal life. You absolutely selfish, insufferable-”



“You jumped because of love?” Javert could feel a tear roll around his cheek bone. When had he last cried? Had he ever?



“How could i love you? How could I chase you my entire life believing I hated you? How could I do anything but fall from the earth knowing I cared about someone I made hate me? That i was so sure i hated for so long?” Valjean looked… horrified. His lips were parted and his eyes were wide. He stood frozen except for his eyes and lips. 



“Javert…” 



“And you do this! Is it so much to allow me one thing in my life? You’ve haunted me across years and cities, and even my death cannot belong to me alone!”


 


Javert was shaking and crying as Valjean pulled him down to be level and touched his lips to the inspectors. His eyes were clenched tightly shut as their foreheads were together and Jean stared at him. His fingertips were on the nape of his neck, but not a single word was on his lips. He didn’t feel warm, but then, neither of them ever would again, would they?



“I spent my life scorning criminals and you, yet I fall in their ranks.” Jean moved to hold his cheek, and Javert’s grip on his wrist loosened to allow him. Jean cradled his cheek with a sorrowful tenderness. 



“Javert, does this feel criminal to you?” Javert pressed his face into Jean’s hand. A dog to the master’s hand. His hands weren’t large, but they were worn by the years and work Jean put himself through. It was like Javert’s well worn coat, aged but loved. Jean's hand simply smelt of him and of the blood. There was no singular word for the perfume of Jean, the essence of him. At one time, it was likely of dirt, stone, sweat. Perhaps later, there would be no remaining smell, too clean and prim for such a thing. With even more time, it would come to smell like a young girl, then a lady. The product of her hair, her own perfume from when they held each other’s hands. Now, it was only definitively Jean Valjean. Strong, yet soft. Comforting and earthy. Javert wrapped his arms around Jean’s arm. He was a man of so little pleasures, he never had a touch so tender or intimate. He never had someone willing to caress him and looking at him with sorrowful eyes. ”I have been a criminal for much of my life, and as such i tell you,” Jean moved his head so that Javert was forced to see him, “you cannot deny yourself the fundamental joys of living as a punishment.” 



“You shouldn’t wish to comfort me.” Javert’s voice was thick and painful with his former crying.



“Javert, you have followed me for so long. You should know we don’t see the same. Your self hatred does not mean I feel the same about you.” Javert opened his mouth to argue, but Jean silenced him. He ran his hand through Javert’s hair, both on his face and head. Javert had not been pet like this since he was a child. It almost made him tearful again. He simply closed his eyes and allowed it instead. “I do not hate you. We are not enemies. You were a blinded man walking in the desert. I was the same at a time. You deserve forgiveness as much as I had. Perhaps even more. My sins were wrathful. You were only misled by the cruel hands about you.” 



“You cannot forgive me for what i've done.” Javert’s hands were fists in Jean’s shirt. He was reminded of the images of baptisms, the way his head tilted back as Jean caressed him, Jean’s assurances of forgiveness, Javert’s fearful hold on his body. Jean had no title, yet he somehow became a baptist without water. His tools were only his words and his touch. They had been the tools he had always carried.



“I already have, Javert. You only must forgive yourself.” 



“Valjean, please- please let us sit.” 


 


They sat together in the small window seat that looked out the back of the house. It was already night. The winter made the day short and Javert already had woken up late enough. They started by facing one another. Jean looked prepared to speak, but Javert leaned into him, resting his head on the other’s. Jean silently stroked Javert’s arms in lue of words, and Javert appreciated him greatly for it. His hair carried a different smell. He had the stink of paris on him, what little remained of his soap. There was the smell of nature as well, Jean perhaps having gone through a park or wood when he left the house. Javert breathed it deeply and it steeled his senses.



“I had a dream, where you fed me wine and spoke with me, laughed with me.” 



“A vision of the future, it seems.” 



“Did you make me drink while i slept?” He could feel Jean’s urge to twitch his head up to look, but he didn’t allow it. 



“Yes. I did not think you would accept drinking it once you were healed.”



“It didn’t taste like blood tonight.”



“Because you enjoyed it so. Once you succumb to our sickness, it becomes a heavenly taste. No other food or drink compares.” 



“Where did you get it from? Surely not a friend as you said.” Javert leaned in further, rubbing the side of his head against Jean’s, nosing at his neck and shoulder. Jean hummed softly. 



“I have many arrangements. It is a much more palatable form of selling one’s self. I am well known to the extent where they trust me not to kill them.”



“You speak with such experience.” Jean chuckled. Javert was holding onto his clothing again, though with lighter hands now. 



“You cannot say that for much, but yes, I am knowledgeable in this regard.”



“No one would feed you if they knew you were feeding me as well.”



“But inspector Javert is dead. You are your own.” Javert pulled back, looking at Jean. They were so close together on this window seat. Valjean seemed to take up so much space, or perhaps he just made Javert feel so small. 



“Not everyone is as forgiving of my cruelty as you are.”



“Then they only need see the you that I do now.” Javert felt shaky at the response. Jean flinched for only a blink of a moment as Javert reached up to touch his face. He put his own thumb on Jean’s lips, rubbing against the bottom pensively. Jean looked at him as though he were the only thing in the world. Rather unattractively, Javert pushed up Jean’s lip to expose his top teeth. They looked as human as anyone else's. Was Javert just more beastly like this? “Blood, you have to get a smell for it first,” he explained, so calm despite Javert’s finger in his mouth. Javert swallowed softly at the feeling of his mouth moving against his thumb. 



“I would like to see.” 



“Yes…”  Javert was distracted from his teeth as Jean began to undo his shirt sleeve, rolling it up to expose his arm. He watched Jean wrap his mouth around his own arm and his cheeks work to suck on the skin there. It was all silent save for that soft sound. 



“Use me.” Jean opened his eyes and looked at Javert before releasing his own skin. It was red. Jean stared as Javert roughly undid his sleeve and revealed his arm, offering it forward. Jean gave him a look that asked if he was sure. Javert gave one sharp nod. 


 


Jean took Javert’s wrist again and kissed it sweetly. Javert was again reminded of young couples, despite their age, or appearance of age in Valjean’s case. Javert felt his body tense as the kiss changed to be open mouthed. He was so quick to carelessness with himself, but treated Javert with such kindness. He suckled at the skin softly, like he had with Javert’s hand. Javert’s first urge was to clench his fist, like he had tensed the rest of his body. That would show an effect on Javert though. It would prove Jean’s touch to have an incredibly potent effect. He started to suck harder, bruising. Javert frowned, but not with displeasure. Then, he felt the slide, something smooth and solid sliding across his skin. Jean let go of his skin with a pop. He looked up at Javert and the man immediately reached to look inside Jean’s mouth again. Pushing his lip away exposed how long his canines had suddenly become. They were animal, meant for piercing and ripping. Despite this night being a reality he never considered, Javert found they fit him like he was born with them. Jean was already so strong it was practically beastly. Why not teeth to match? Even more so, it fit his confounding complexity. Jean Valjean dripped with masculinity and strength, even before he was given this condition. These teeth were made for violently stealing, claiming, just like many viewed a masculinity like his to be meant for. But Jean Valjean was gentle. He nursed, he cared for, he only stole to feed others. His nephew, and now Javert. Like his size and stature, these somehow managed to find a way to be comforting. Just as how Jean’s body made you want to grasp onto him, these created a need to kiss, to feel them. Kiss Javert did. He leaned in to them so easily, pressed his lips to Jean’s. He kissed him in turn, content and consenting to giving someone like Javert a kiss. Javert pulled way just enough to have both thumbs on Jean’s lips. Only then did his eyes break from their shared reality. They darted to the window to see no one there in the cold night. They returned only to close when Javert leaned in to kiss directly at the fangs. He moved on some instinct, licking up the teeth.



“Javert,” Jean spoke into the kiss. The inspector moved back, staring at Jean. he held his face, while Jean held his wrists. They were curled into one another on the window seat.



“I apologize…”



“I enjoyed your kiss,” Jean reassured. Javert averted his eyes, a single curt nod.



“Right.”



“You are an interesting man when you are fascinated.” Oh and Javert could hear the smile in Jean’s voice. 



“I would not do the same to anyone but you.”



“I suppose i should be thankful for that.” Jean laughed at Javert’s bitter look. And being so close to that smile, feeling it in your touch and on your face. Javert felt sick with affection. He moved in for another kiss, but Jean's hands held him back by his shoulders. 


 


"Please, the window." Javert looked out at it. The yard was dark and empty save for any birds that picked at the grass. Regardless of whether it was wrong between the two of them, there was a reason Javert harbored so much self loathing. Jean stood, and guided Javert up by their joint hands to do the same. As though this were an exchange of vows. Javert followed on feet he wasn't aware he had as Jean led him to the fireplace. They stood in front of its warmth. It cast a beautiful shine on Jean's hair, his beard. Javert brushed his fingers through it, almost like he was petting an animal. Jean just smiled amicably up at him.



"You're a very handsome man, when you're not filthy from prisons, that is."



"I will be sure to keep myself tidy for you then." Javert flustered, focusing on his fingers rather than Jean's eye contact. Jean's beard curled just like his greyed long hair did. The sensation of brushing through it was mesmerizing. "You've always reminded me of a wolf. Frightening the first time you find yourself in its jaw, but fascinating. You have such wit and terrifying demeanor. How odd it is, to like something that scares you. Maybe it was never fear at all."



"It was never truly hatred for crime that guided me." Jean hummed in agreement. Javert froze as he rested a hand on the inspectors waist and rested his face on Javert's shoulder.



"Perhaps we both misunderstood passions." Javert didn't know what to do with Jean's body on his, even as chaste as this. It felt much more alarming to have him in Javert's personal space with them both standing. He put a hand on Jean's hip, awkwardly, as a response. Jean nosed  at Javert like Javert had done to him only minutes ago. The inspector felt so amazingly steady with the simple touch of Jean's hands on his waist. They did not curve in to provide an easy place to rest. Javert was as straight and scrawny as a sapling. Jean touched him all the same however. He tightened his hold subtly before releasing, like a kneading animal. 



"The foolishness of old men," Javert grumbled in response.



"Like this though," Jean stood back up straight and stuck his thumb to Javert's canine, "There truly isn't age."



"We will always be old men, in spirit." Jean nodded like he wasn't listening. He continued to rub his thumb up and down the tooth.



"How fortunate, for what I've seen of youthful love between my daughter and her Marius, it would exhaust me."



"I have never seen you face exhaustion." Jean let out an exhale of amusement. With a smile, he put his thumb on the flat of Javert's tongue. Could he flush, he would have



 "You've not had to beheld young love either then." Javert wanted to close his mouth, clear his throat, but he couldn't. Jean didn't even appear to be attempting anything. He was swiping over Javert's tongue like one rolls a ball between their hands when they listen to someone. Javert pushed his hand away by his wrist. Spit that connected them broke and fell on Javert's chin.



"You either overestimate other men, or under appreciate yourself." Jean blinked before his face slowly stretched into a smile, the most devious Javert had ever seen him show. 



"In what regard do you think I'm comparing myself to them?" Javert blinked for a moment. Then, he went wide eyed as he realized that inappropriate suggestion. 



"I know nothing of- that's not how I meant-" Jean laughed as he pulled Javert's head down to kiss him. His chest felt full of embarrassment and butterflies. 


i was haunted by this fic. i had to make more of it.

this chapter was actually supposed to have more sexual tension, but came out very tender! how nice :D

Despite what was likely hundreds, if not thousands, of night time patrols and investigations Javert has been a part of, he felt nervous following behind Valjean that night. He was silent, and only a step behind Valjean. He felt an unease in his spirit though, a fluttering in his heart, had it still beat. The streets were relatively empty, sans drunkards and soon-to-be drunkards. Even though, Javert felt as though every one of them were watching him, scorning a new found freakishness. Javert had never been unaware of the scornful looks he got, but now that he was in such amicable terms with Valjean… He fixed the high collar of his coat, his hat. Valjean fussed over him before their leaving, assuring him such precautions weren’t necessary. Javert firmly refused. A criminal’s face from some far off village you had never visited was unmemorable. People faced and conversed with criminals almost everyday, granted mostly petty ones. But the law? A member of Paris’ own law? That was recognizable. Javert’s occupation as of late was either held in high regard, or seen as the enemy.

 

Valjean had first hand witness of this when his daughter and new son returned home. Cosette was largely unaware of Javert. She had been hidden away from him all her life, and she rarely left the convent sans those few months approaching the barricade. His new son however, Marius, his distaste was clear. Javert remembered clearly him and Valjean bringing in the luggage, talking amicably. They came into the house and set down their bags, and Marius froze when he was met with Javert. He stared at him, visibly aghast. Javert pointedly kept his head turned away, but explained. 

“I’ve retired my duties. I’m here only as a friend.” And how odd that was, to know he was a friend, to introduce himself as one rather than his title or as a coworker. Marius looked to his father in law as though just about to fire loaded questions and statements. He simmered with a soft hand to his shoulder from Valjean.

“You will find Javert has softened his morals. You can trust him as you trust me.” Valjean offered a smile to Javert, and he nodded in response. Marius stared a moment before clearing his throat and nodding. 

 

He learned after their visit that Cosette was aware. He didn’t know how it shocked him. A child would certainly ask quickly why they would eat when their father does not, why their chest rises and falls when their father’s does not. How they age, but their father never will. Javert respected Cosette, how normalized this had all become to her. She did not bat at her father’s wine glass at the table. She only looked and said nothing when Valjean gave Javert some of his own drink. The two had exchanged a stare, but Cosette remained unchanged. Despite their lack of relation, she seemed to have studied and mastered her father’s smile. The one that spoke of silent shared knowledge. When the family, plus Javert, finished speaking for hours in the sitting room, she kissed Javert’s cheeks just as she had done her father. She told him that she was glad he chose someone to share with. It shook Javert’s soul. He stared at her in surprise, where she only smiled.

“It was a pleasure to meet you, monsieur Javert. Any occasion that I should wish father at, you are welcome to as well.” Javert swallowed and nodded, thanking her. Marius granted him the same courtesy, though it seemed reluctant, and they left together. Javert was left shaken by the experience for much more of the night. Valjean’s daughter saw Javert as Valjean’s eternal choice. She saw such potential for a thing in her father. 

 

Javert had a vague understanding of where they were going.  To eat  Valjean explained cryptically. Javert was perfectly content to continue to drink from the bottles, but they had been emptied. Javert immediately assumed he was a gluttonous creature seeing Valjean’s shock that they had emptied so soon. He had gotten another, and that had been cleaned out as well. Javert tried to be aware of his appetite, but it was a skill he never had to learn before and his mind always went blank once one of those bottles was opened. Valjean excused his eagerness as adjusting to the new thing Javert had become. He always excused it with a smile as well. He almost  teased  Javert at times, making him wait like a dog. He would complain and insult when he realized Jean’s tactics, but still ultimately obeyed and showed gratitude when he was allowed a drink. This would not be the same. Like this, Javert would have to face where his food was sourced. He would not be accepting a gift from Valjean, but taking it from the desperate. He had no idea where Jean procured his blood, but he shifted his hat even further down thinking over whether it was low lives that would recognize him and refuse service, or even expose them. If their sanguine needs were disbelieved, then their “morally corrupt” relationship would be the next piece. Valjean looked over his shoulder to assure Javert still followed. Javert simply focused on their feet as he worried and thought. 

 

“Here.” Valjean stopped him, hand clutching the inspectors elbow. It was not some filthy alley or ramshackled building. It appeared the same as the rest. Modest, functional, and large. All the curtains were drawn shut, a fiery red with the light shining from inside the building. There was no sign or outward suggestion of what the building contained. 

“This is a brothel,” Javert said simply, analyzing the windows for any sign of movement. Valjean’s clutch tightened. 

“And you are no longer an officer, and we have no wine left at the house.” Javert easily picked up on both the use of code, and on the way he referred to it as the house rather than  his  house. Javert looked to Jean and swallowed softly. 

“I do not react well to such,” He dug for a word that would not hurt Valjean’s sensibilities, “people.”

“I will handle all the conversation, just please remain respectful.” 

“I’ll stick to silence,” he grumbled, hands to his pockets and following Valjean up the steps. 

 

“Monsieur Fauchelevent! We see you again so soon?” A woman at the door greeted them. She was sickly thin and wrapped in a robe that hung lazily off her shoulders. They were immediately met by the smell of tobacco strong enough to rival any pub or harbor. The woman exchanged faire le bise with Valjean while Javert worked to examine the building. They were in a hallway with walls covered in unexpectedly pretty yellow wallpaper. A small wooden desk was right beside the door. Surely this woman’s desk. They stood on a long hall rug that was an emerald green. Javert heard nothing except distant music. 

“Yes, I'm sorry to be such a nuisance as of late,” Valjean apologized. That Madeleine smile and grasp of hands to himself. She waved his apology away like gnats in the spring. 

“Nonsense nonsense monsieur! We love your generosity and spirits.” Javert bristled as he could feel her eyes fall to him, looking over him like he was an imposing statue. “You bring a friend with you for tonight?” 

“Yes, he will be with me, if that is alright.” She did a kind of laugh that made Javert’s jaw clench. She waved that statement away too as she moved behind her little desk. 

“Yes, yes, of course. You are such a peculiar gentleman, monsieur Fauchelevent,” she spoke as she flipped through a large ledger. The pages were worn. Certainly a popular establishment. Valjean cleared his throat and Javert met his eyes. He was giving the inspector a small smile, a little comfort. Javert looked away, hands fists in his coat pockets. “I’ll go and see to Chantal, monsieurs.” She dipped her head before going at a leisurely pace up the stairs. Also carpeted, but still creaking. They led up to a hallway of doors. Javert averted his eyes from following her when he realized it might seem like his interests lied elsewhere. 

“Is she aware?” Javert spoke lowly. Valjean shook his head, glancing to make sure she had disappeared in order to answer.

“Not her. Do not concern yourself with her thoughts however. She knows every customer and every man and woman employed here. Her task is not to judge.” 

“How reassuring.” Again, that exhausted expression from Valjean. 

“You will be civil?” 

“Either that or starve.” Valjean sighed, reached an arm out to rub Javert’s arm. 

“You will be fine. I will handle everything.” somehow, Valjean had grown very skilled at recognizing the discomfort in Javert’s anger. He could tell natural temperament from the aggression of anxiety. Javert took a hand and put it on Valjean’s. He smiled lightly again.

“She is prepared for you, gentlemen!” Javert’s hand shot away like he had been burnt.

 

Javert felt discomforted to his very bones walking up those stairs, following Valjean to the door the woman stood beside. It was already open. Javert felt very much like he was walking towards a grave, filled with dread. The woman made some insipid comment about enjoying themselves, then made her own way down the stairs. Javert followed Valjean into the door, and stood in the doorway with him as he shut the door. 

“Bonsoir, Fauchelevent,” a woman, Chantal, greeted. She sat at a vanity table, wiping her face. What makeup remained there was far from where it belonged, streaked and smudged. Javert had to shut his eyes to force himself not to think. Valjean crossed over and stood behind her, kissing her head as chastly as he did any faire de bise. 

"Bonsoir, madame.” Her smile seemed genuine, friendly. It was the look women had when they sat down for lunch with acquaintances. She was an older woman, not as old as Valjean if Javert had to guess, but grey was starting to show in her black hair. Said hair was down and sloppy, like it had once been put up and proper. She was a larger woman, a soft round face and body that one could use to suggest she might be a mother. Valjean touched and regarded her as though a relative. 

“You brought a friend with you tonight.” She threw a glance to Javert, smiling. Javert cleared his throat and bowed his head. 

“He is one as I am, though very new.” She chuckled, pulling a comb from the vanity.

“Rather common to hear in a place like this.” 

“Please, do not tease for tonight, unless it is to poke at me.” She nodded, combing through her hair as though she weren’t listening at all. It was long, flowing down her back and over her shoulder. 

“My apologies, monsieur.” Valjean gestured to a chair for Javert. It was in the corner to the left of the bed. A sizable bed, obviously meant for a couple and covered in clean white linens and deep sapphire blankets. Javert sat, rather uncomfortably. He hazarded to take off his hat and rest it on his lap. Valjean nodded at him, turning his attention back to Chantal. 

“I infected him, to explain my more frequent visits as of late.” Valjean helped her fix her hair, exposing one side of her neck. 

“Always needing someone to care for.” Javert scoffed at that. Hit the nail right on the head. Valjean chuckled and nodded, almost bashful.

"Yes I suppose so. It can't be helped." She hummed in agreement, placing her comb down. She looked at Javert through the mirror and the inspector froze. 

"Have you enjoyed your meals?" She said it in a way that suggested innuendo, like there was something more to this than blood. He cleared his throat.

"I suppose." She nodded, staring at him a few moments longer. She sighed and shut her eyes, resting her head on a palm. 

"Well, go ahead and feast yourself then, Fauchelevent."

 

Valjean put one hand on Chantal's shoulder while the other brushed by fingertips over her exposed neck. No stray hairs or clothing to provide an obstacle. Javert shifted in his chair. Something felt wrong in watching, despite the situation being so clear. It was too similar to Chantal's true occupation. Valjean leaned down, placing a kiss on her olive skin. Her breath hitched, then she sighed and relaxed her tensed shoulders. They stayed like this, Chantal limp in Valjean's careful hold while her skin was in his mouth. Javert barely noticed that he began to irritably bounce his foot. How long did something such as this take? As the time passed, Chantal relied more on Valjean, put more of her weight in his trust. He only shifted to hold her elbow instead, keeping her upright. It was almost like she was about to faint. Javert only had the back half of the two of them in this embrace. The way Valjean's coat hung worked like curtains, shielding his body. He could imagine how Chantal might feel though. He had felt Valjean's strong hands clutch his arms, felt Valjean's hair brush against his cheek and neck. He’d bitten at Javert's lips before, small nips, but that was the closest he could understand that sensation. His fangs, did they hurt? How deep would they go into Javert if they were to bite him? Would Valjean withdraw them quickly so he could drink at the blood he pulled like a parasite, or would he simply drink around them? What kind of wounds would this leave? Had Javert only bore witness to them without realizing? He didn’t recall any coupled scars that teeth like that could cause. Though, if Valjean were to behave more animalistically, how would anyone ever be able to tell the wound from a dog? But Valjean wasn't feral, he was so calm and even heeled it could drive anyone around him to ferocity instead. Javert had seen him panicked, full of wrath so great it should have been automatic condemnation, but neither of these were a beast. Javert was the wolf among their partnership. He was the beast without awareness of self. 

 

"Mon ami." Javert blinked back to attention at that soft deep voice. Valjean was standing upright again, slightly turned to him. He was holding Chantal up against his hip like a kind of hug, petting her head. It was easy to imagine it Cosette. Picture them father and daughter. Her skin or clothes weren't stained red. 

"Yes." Javert stood placing his hat back upon his head. Now if only when they left that woman would somehow not be there to see them again-

"Do you not wish to drink?" Javert froze. He stared at Valjean and he simply stared back. His expression was a soft confusion, still petting her pitch black hair. It flowed like silk about his fingers. Javert's eyes followed the motion like it was of any importance. Valjean's fingers moved through like it was water, clean and easy. A stray hair may catch and pull, falling softly to the ground. A drink. Javert had already had much of this woman's blood, if their conversation was any basis. But that was their sole connection. Javert was not one to touch. He was prudish both in that regard and his respect for her position. He didn't like anyone touching him, and his interest in any caress towards someone else was almost exclusively for Valjean himself. He had only found himself interested in touching or being felt if it were by Valjean's hands. Everyone else, they were only touches in the most professional, clinical of manners. When he apprehended criminals, he only held them enough to restrain them and then turn them over to the system. He remembered being a child in that prison, crying if he were to be touched by anyone other than his mother. He held everything he saw as his as close and tight to himself as he could. So afraid someone else might take it or change it from the exact manner he liked. No. Only he was allowed to touch, and he decided who. He didn't know this woman. He had no idea how she lived, bathed, who else had kissed that very skin. Valjean just had, but before him, who knows? More so, if he did bite her, he would have to figure out the process of going about it. He would have to deal with her gasp, her resting her weight in his hands. Javert rubbed his mouth, teeth still dull. How would he bring them out if the wound had sealed? He could do as Valjean had done to him in the window seat, but the thought of it made him recoil in repulsion. 

 

"J- mon ami…" Valjean caught himself and dragged Javert from his thoughts. He sharply shook his head. 

"No."

"No?"

"I won't. We may go." Chantal shifted, blinking blearily at the image of Javert in the mirror. She looked half asleep in Valjean's arms. Valjean continued to stare at him directly, as if he were a painting. His expression was even apt for the comparison. Blank and thoughtful. Javert scowled and shifted in the look. Valjean nodded, despite nothing having been said, and focused his attentions back on Chantal. 

"You may go and rest, but please allow us some time together in this room. We should not need long." She nodded and relied on him as he eased her into standing. Leaning on his hold on her elbow, they headed for the door. "Please stay here." And it was clear it was meant for Javert. He sat down on the bed's edge. Javert was left alone in a room as impersonal as the many he had in life. Somewhere here and now however, it felt disquieting. The building wasn't quiet by any means, but everything was so muffled it felt like Javert was in a bubble far and removed from the other rooms. He should be offended Valjean would leave him like this, like a dog, but he was the one that obediently sat. He just hoped this business would be finished swiftly. 

 

When Valjean returned, he carried one of those bottles with him. His face was hard with worry, though he clearly tried to sooth this when he turned back to Javert after having closed the door.

"Shall we be going?" Valjean didn't answer other than sitting beside Javert on the bed. He uncorked the bottle and Javert tried not to jump to alertness at the smell. He had been trying to control that response. Valjean stared at the bottle wordlessly before,

"I would like you to know how to go about this." 

"Why?"

"Should you ever need to deal with it on your own…" he wetted his lip. 

"Are you intending on leaving me? You did not have to make your announcement such an event, if so." There was a bitterness that immediately grew in Javert's gut. He knew such an arrangement could not, would not, last. 

"No," Valjean denied firmly. He sighed deeply, then looked to Javert. "I want you to be able to survive without me, should you have to." The look he gave the inspector could only be described as restrained desperation. This wasn't a request, it was a plea. He never considered how often Valjean lost what he had. He lost his family the day he was decided guilty, he lost Montreuil when Javert realized his true identity, he lost Cosette so recently. It was so easy to think something would force them apart when you had become trained to expect it. Just like how he began to expect Javert. Javert could not imagine anything that would drag him away from this now other than a command from Valjean himself, but Valjean saw that possibility loom like a coming storm. Dark clouds on the horizon of his sunny luck. 

"I will do it, if it is from you." Valjean visibly relaxed, like Javert's consent removed all the tension from him. Valjean leaned in, resting his forehead on Javert's shoulder. 

"Thank you."

 

Javert watched as Valjean gulped down the contents of the bottle swiftly. He half expected it to leak from the corners of his lips, how quickly he tried to chase it down. When he put it down, it was only half full. He ducked his head and cleared his throat, a hand on Javert's shoulder. Javert felt almost flustered when Valjean did look at him again. 

"Where feels the most comfortable?" 

"I should do as you did." Javert shifted in place, full of hesitancy he didn't want to address out of care for Valjean. Jean nodded and began to tuck his silver curls behind his head and ear, exposing his jaw. 

 

It was odd, seeing his hair tucked back so. Somehow, it had a youthening effect. Valjean didn't seem as old and hardened, not that he was particularly hard and intimidating to a normal eye. To someone who did not chase his tail like a dog to the fox his entire life, they would think him friendly, grandfatherly. His smiles and grey hair made him feel homely. 

"Do you recall when you asked me to reveal my fangs?"

"I am to do the same to you," Javert answered bluntly. He was frozen still however, stuck to his place staring at Valjean's neck. He nodded, and Javert watched intensely as he began to untie his cravat. Valjean always stayed as dressed as he could manage, a flavor of shame to his body. The cravat was dropped to the bed, and his collar was pushed down to expose even more of his neck. Scarred skin. 

"Yes, simple as that." They stared at one another, Javert still unmoving. Valjean frowned softly, a pitiful sorry expression that always hurt Javert's pride to see aimed at him. He held Javert by the shoulder. "Javert-"

"I am going to." He was. He could feel the motion in his muscles, see it perfectly in his mind's eye, yet he did not move. He just needed time, that was all. He would lean forward and rest his face in Valjean's neck. He had done it so easy that night of their confession to one another. Valjean, with the sweetness of a saint, gently pulled Javert in. He kissed the inspector, light and chaste. One, two, three times. It was best Javert close his eyes and reduce all of this. It was only Valjean. He knew Valjean. He dipped his head, nose to Valjean's jaw. The hair of his beard tickled and itched, but Javert kissed regardless. Valjean hummed softly, like a reassurance. Javert moved further, to kiss actual bare skin. Had he been alive, it would have been his pulse point. Javert could imagine the thumping pulse under his lips. With great hesitance, he made his kisses open mouthed. Valjean's head pressed against him.

"Yes, just as you are." Javert felt increasingly ridiculous as he sucked at the skin. He was greatly inexperienced and even more discomforted. He had enjoyed when Valjean had done the same to his hands that night, but Valjean was well experienced in these things. Valjean's hand came up and pet the back of Javert's head. Javert chewed with his frustration, like Valjean's skin was grey steak. He froze when he felt his fangs expose themselves, just poking into Valjean's skin like nails would. 

 

"Now bite harder." Valjean's voice was soft and low right beside his ear. You could practically feel the way it shook the air. Javert could certainly feel the words in Valjean's chest and his neck. Javert froze once again, about to pull away to voice his hesitancy. "It will not hurt me to the extent you think. A bug bite." It was clear Javert had no choice. Even if he could pull away, he would then have to face Valjean's poorly disguised disappointment. Javert was regularly placed under it. He was well aware how much it made something cold drown his soul like the Seine. He shut his eyes, would have taken a fortifying breath had it served any purpose. He opened his jaw wider and then bit down. A wolf with the rabbit finally in his grasp. Valjean made a small noise, the barest suggestion of discomfort. Javert's fangs were in his flesh. 

 

He caught the smell, the taste, of his blood. It hit his senses like the tobacco downstairs. Without any thought of his own, he pulled out his fangs and began to eagerly suck those four pricks he caused. Valjean's hand had at some point changed from petting to clutching Javert's thin hair. His silence conveyed something different from his bruising grasp on Javert. The inspector was heeding his blood however. His animal impulses made him almost push Valjean back, overpower him to drink further. If Chantal's blood was earthy and sweet, then Valjean's was pure caramel. Thick, warm, almost painfully sweet. There was a dark note as well, just underneath that toasted flavor. A sting of bourbon. It was an unnameable dessert, delicacy. Javert was almost drawn to moan. 

 

"Enough, Javert." The inspector was moved by only the lightest of hands. He drew his fangs from flesh, like sword from the sheath. His eyes focused on that skin as he was made to sit back straight. It was flushed now, four miniscule red dots showing where he had claimed Valjean. It would be hidden under his collar, his cravat. Valjean held Javert by his biceps, stroking up and down the weak limbs. "Thank you," he breathed. His voice was as gentle and shaken as that moment in the sewers.  If that is what you believe, then you must kill me . Javert didn't know what he should believe anymore. "You were excellent." 

"You're well?" He finally looked at Valjean's face. Had he always looked so tired? Had Javert always been able to see him so clear? It was the smile of a truly old man that answered him. 

"Yes, yes I will be fine." His laugh was dry. Javert looked for that bottle from before, gave it to Valjean commandingly. 

"Drink." And Valjean listened. He lifted the bottle to his lips and made to drink from it. Javert saw the way his hands shook however. They shuddered as if the room were cold. Javert took a hold of the bottle and helped him to drink from it, loaning his strength. 

 

"Thank you for humoring my fears. It eases my spirit that you did this for me." Valjean stared at the now corked bottle in his hands. Javert considered holding one of those hands. He found he did as he spoke. 

"I will not leave you, lest you ask me. Only in that case would I go." Valjean blinked at him. He tightened his hold of Javert's hand faintly. Their hands were dry. Valjean's nails were dirty underneath, but longer than Javert's root bitten ones. You could feel the age in both palms.

"I'm afraid I've grown too used to you in my shadow to ask of that. I've grown to enjoy you beside me too much as well."

"I shall never leave then. I will try with the strength of God to never use this skill." Valjean smiled that exhausted way again. His hand came to Javert's beard and pulled him forward to kiss him. Falling into Valjean was like falling asleep. 

 

Javert was reluctant to make his way back down those steps, but walking down them along with Valjean meant home. He would be somewhere he knew was safe, somewhere where Jean was only his. He worked his hardest to not consider the look the woman at her pitiful desk gave them as they made their way past her for the door. They had done nothing more than kiss and drink, even if her look implied more. He tried to forget her with his feet on the threshold, and he did when Valjean had them lock arms. They walked together with that little intimacy. The moon was center sky. Javert hoped that Valjean knew he considered him the moon, and the inspector the stars, or the tide. Valjean knew his way through the dark, and Javert followed him. He always followed. And in the twilight that was Javert's fall, they were the same sky. 