Title: Voulant
Work ID: 30681032
Author: Froggiespit
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: it was only a matter of time before i did this so, this is a wet dream smh, Wet Dream, Power Dynamics, dont fuck your boss kids, Exhibitionism, sort of???, Punish Me Monsieur le Maire, THATS ALREADY A TAG??????????, Monsieur le maire - Freeform, Madeleine Era, Javert Comes In His Trousers, dream valjean and the actions thereof, He has no shame, And Neither Do I
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Don't you just hate when you have a sex dream about a superior?

Work text:


Javert has always been called names, ever since he was old enough to listen to them.



Bastard. sycophant. Cruel. Stubborn. Callous.



He hears these thrown over shoulders and spat at the ground he walks on so often that he hears his name in the syllables.



His precinct calls him things too, though these are decidedly more positive.



Loyal. Devoted. Dutiful. Committed. Diligent.



They’re all words Javert is familiar with being called. When you aren't fed love from a silver spoon you learn to lick it from knives. 



They’re the very reason why he is currently standing in the middle of Monsieur Madeleine’s office with the man’s thumb pressing down on his tongue and his heartbeat thrumming in his ears. The pressure is enough that he can’t resist it, but not nearly as heavy as what Javert was hoping for. Monsieur Madeleine, the saint, the mind reader even, presses down harder and tilts Javert’s chin down so he can’t avoid his eyes. He wants to snarl. He wants to bite, to feel the bloom of blood over his tongue and wonder whose it is. The way that Madeleine looks at him, however, renders him unable to. It feels like he’s sweating through his uniform and somewhere far off in the fogged corners of his brain he worries that he is. 



He’s shaking, shifting between his feet anxiously as the mayor holds him there, drool collecting in his open mouth and hot huffs of air fanning out over the space between Madeleine’s thumb and pointer finger. A horrible idea crosses his mind and he smiles a bit around where the thumb is before he exhales shakily and wraps his lips around it. For a moment, he flicks his eyes across Madeleine’s face, taking in the surprised little raise of his brows and the way his lips part in what he hopes is a pleased gasp. Ever so smug, he lets his eyes fall closed and sighs again. Javert’s heart is hammering in his chest as he dares move his hands from his sides to follow up his body and wrap innocently around Madeleine’s wrist gently--though he would much rather be wrapping them around something else. His grip tightens and he parts his lips to lathe over the pad of his thumb with a pleased hum. 



Madeleine swallows and narrows his eyes and that horrible awful idea enters Javert’s head again. With a smile, he bites down on his thumb, not as hard as he can of course, but enough for Madeleine to jolt and grit his teeth at him. A laugh, or bark moreover, rattles from Javert’s chest but is short-lived when he feels the thumb slip from his mouth and instead clamp down on his jaw, forcing him to look Madeleine eye to eye. He smiles with squished lips, trying to push his hips forward to meet the man in front of him. He’s affected for sure, going by the visible bulge pressing against the front of his pants. It’s familiar and insistent, and Javert wants to clamber to his knees and chase after it with shaking hands--but the fingers gripping his jaw tighten. 



He’s panting, he realizes, and a pair of lips brush after his own, just out of reach. Madeleine plants his other hand square in his chest and shoves steadily, pushing him back until Javert’s back hits the wall with a dull thud. Finally, Madeleine is kissing him, his hands dropping to grab at his hips. Breathing is an inconvenience and an annoying one at that. A sin even. How is it that he can have such bliss and be torn from it by his own need to breathe? With a shudder of a breath, Madeleine pulls away, pressing a strong hand back into his chest to pin him where he stands. 



“You’re obedient to authority, yes?” 



God, Javert wants to growl, wants to kiss him again and grind out ‘I am authority’ against his hips, but he’s stuck to the wall with weakening knees. His mouth feels dry when he swallows around the lump in it. A stone heart batters his ribs. He hangs his head and nods. 



“I...think you’ll find that I am.” He answers carefully.



Madeleine smiles. It’s that grin that tugs at the lines around his eyes and forms a dimple in the crease of his left cheek. Yet, it isn’t the smile he gives when he wishes a conversation over, nor is it laced with the pity it carries when Javert has caught him giving alms once or twice. This smile has *heat* within it. 



“Stay there.” The man orders, and it’s as if Javert’s boots have melted into the spacing of the floorboards. Anything, anything he asks in good faith Javert will at least try to do. He is obedient. Madeleine drops his hand and makes his way back behind his desk, sitting down in the chair as if he is truly unaffected by it all. Ooh, it makes Javert’s blood boil angrily, but still, he stands with his back to the wall and his chest heaving in the most ineloquent fashion. 



Time feels as if it stretches on for years, a single solitary drop of sweat swipes down the dip of Javert’s lower back and he clenches and unclenches his fists, anxiously waiting for what Madeleine will ask of him.



The silence is finally broken by a guilty gasp of air and a tone, not unlike that of what Javert imagines he must use when agitated.



“On your knees.”



Javert’s ears burn, but the stiffness of his posture wanes as he slides to his knees with a thud, dutifully folding his legs under him. He should be asking the meaning of this, but at his readiness to fall to his knees he finds it might be wise to keep his mouth shut.



The impressed sound Madeleine makes in the back of his throat is worth what shame he might be feeling. 



“Come here,” And Javert wrinkles his brow, beginning to get to his feet, but the mayor clicks his tongue and he freezes.



“Wouldn’t crawling be far more effective?”



No. ‘No, not remotely’, he wants to bite out, but his tongue is heavy in his mouth, and his throat contracts around itself. It should be rather humiliating to crawl across an office floor just to grovel at a superior’s feet: but if it is so humiliating why does the thought of it make his stomach flip? He swallows an excuse and drops his head, eyeing a knot in the wooden floor. His shaking hands anxiously press to the cool ground as he gets onto his knees, still not daring to look up at the man across from him. He isn’t one to disappoint, especially not now, and so he begins his crawl across the floor, not wanting to think about how dirty his palms might become. 



“Suddenly you aren’t a fan of eye contact are you?” Madeleine sounds out, not necessarily angrily but with a tone of despondence. Oh, to look at him from the floor, he’s afraid he might die--but still, his head raises just slightly and his eyes flick up to catch the way Madeleine smiles at him and leans back in his chair, his hands smoothing over the cloth at his thighs. It would be a lie if Javert said he had never considered what rough hands and strong thighs may be capable of, if they would be gentle or if they would leave welts on his skin...but he can hardly think of it now that he’s nearly a feet away from him and awkwardly aware of his own body. 



Is he attractive? He thinks for a moment.



Plain. Unsightly. Unappealing. Dead ends on his hair and a chipped tooth in his smile. 



No, not attractive, no oil painting, but perhaps this is enough for him. The mayor appears a little older than himself, surely his eyes must be going bad. A pair of glasses and Javert is certain there would be a door in his face. But then again, the moment he settles on his calves in front of him, there’s this look of pride but also adoration that makes Javert think he is wrong. A strong, rough hand smoothes across his hair and the inspector closes his eyes, hesitantly resting his palms flat on Madeleine’s thighs. The palms slide up and inward, Javert’s thumbs dipping across the material spread between his legs. The man above him inhales and there’s that familiar swell of pride low in his stomach to urge him onward. 



Despite the blood rushing in his ears and that little voice in the back of his head screaming at him to claw him from the inside out, Javert gently presses his lips to Madeleine’s clothed knee and continues a path towards his hip. Large hands shake as he works at getting his pants out of the way all while Madeleines own suspiciously rough hands pull the ribbon from his hair and card through it instead. That alone makes Javert falter a bit, just pressing his cheek to his leg with an exhale. Why is he so gentle? Why do his hands smooth across his hair and not wrap around his throat? And why does Javert like it? 



He shouldn’t think too long about it. Thinking is so much more dangerous than acting in this room—he knows it and Madeleine would be an idiot if he didn’t too. Javert finally works the man’s pants open and he dives forward, mouthing at the exposed bit of hip hungrily and that gentle demeanor slips away. The hand tightens in his hair and Javert is glad he’s shut his eyes because they roll behind their lids. 



“You don’t want to stop?” Comes a sigh from above him and Javert laughs against his skin. 



“No, I don’t.” 



A hand slips into Madeleine’s pants, the other pulling the fabric down and out of the way. God, he’s warm. The thought that he’s in Javert’s hand makes Javert’s knees slide apart on the floor and his mouth water. He’s perfect, because of fucking course he is, perfectly sized and perfectly shaped in his hand and enough to make his eyelids flutter. 



Distantly, he wonders if the door is even locked. He can’t remember. Oh, if someone walks in what they’d see. A member of the city’s fine police on his knees in front of the mayor with his prick just inches from his lips? That would be hard to explain, wouldn’t it? He does not doubt that the mayor would be able to. There isn’t a thing he’s incapable of it seems. 



“Do you know what you’re doing?” 



“I’m familiar. Are you?” Javert grins, terrible and heated. 



“Hardly. I know the mechanics of it?” Madeleine chuckles at his own words and shakes his head. Mechanics might not be the word. 



“Perfect” the inspector exhales against him, licking a stripe just to test him. 



Fortunately, the chair is a bit away from the wall, because, with the way Madeleine throws his head back, he would have been looking at a horrible knot on the back of his head. One calloused hand gathers the hair out of Javert’s face and instead lets it fall in uneven sections through the gaps of his fingers. 



Javert strokes across him just to watch his stomach pull taught when he arches just slightly, finally leaning in to wrap his lips—



—————



Tired eyes snap awake and Javert scrambles into a half reclined position with a start. The thin blankets on his bed are rucked up around his hips and wrapped helplessly messy around his ankles. He must’ve been thrashing. Nightmares are common...but this? He swallows and draws his knees closer to himself, lifting the sheets for a brief moment. What is he, a teenager? No, a grown man who sincerely thinks that he might be getting a little too old and with a little too much self-control for this. And a superior? He ought to be ashamed, really. 



A hand snakes down to palm his front. He ought to be. 


 

 

 

 

 

 