Title: Switcharound Meme - 2021, Monster Edition
Work ID: 30926078
Author: Dylan_m', 'Lafcadiosadventures', 'madmerchant (bitr)', 'MagicFishHook', 'TheLifeOfEmm
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Creatures & Monsters, Religious Imagery & Symbolism, Anal Fingering, Penis Size, Macro/Micro, Size Difference, Masturbation, Snakes
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 6/6

Summary:
Switcharound meme, this time the theme was "monsters"!A 5-way collaboration.

Work text:


  



(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



  


Sketch - Dylan: I wanted to put some religious imagery in my monsters, so for Valjean I was inspired by the lyric "And if they fall as Lucifer fell" I wanted to portray a fallen angel and got my main inspiration from The Angel of Death from Hellboy but bigger ;) Javert is a lesser demon in the hierarchy so he's not as fancy, but I loved adding horns and tail to what was initially a human!Javert, for that I must thank the Discord for boing such a fertile ground for inspiration!

As a mod I saw that artists after me went on a different direction than what I had imagined, this is the beauty of the challenge! And the results are so beautiful I am very happy with it <3

Lineart - Thoma: In this sketch the texture and subtle eyes of monstrous Valjean strongly evoked a tree. He became a tree monster with branch-scar eyes. In that context, his cruelly sharp nails came to suggest thorns. Javert’s devilish appearance and the rosary with its crucifix provided the idea that tree-Valjean should have a crown of thorns, a symbol of martyrdom that grows from his very flesh. The story behind this image is known only to the artist of the sketch, but I was captivated by Javert’s expression—a hint of pain, overpowered be bliss and satisfaction. It seemed fitting the fingers eliciting this pain and pleasure should be linked to Valjean's compelling, confounding self-sacrifice. I hope that the humble contribution of Valjean’s thorny branches may enrich this intriguing story just a tiny bit!

Colours - Lafcadio: When I saw the linework for this extremely imaginative Arthur Rackham-with an erotic streak- scene, I almost died xD It already looked like a finished piece. I was a bit intimidated. Nevertheless I started immediately. And failed, and started again. It finally started looking acceptable. This was by far the hardest stage of the switch around.Anyways this was a fun and educational process for me!! I enjoyed how everyone thought of very different things for the same challenge, and doing Valvert, a thing I hadn't done before! Can’t wait to see all the rest of the pieces!!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



  


Sketch - Emm: Legend tells of the lindworm, a dragon-serpent born to a woman who failed to heed the warnings of a witch. A thing of horror, the lindworm demanded its rights as a son: a bride to call its own. Many suitors were presented to the beast, but it devoured them all. Desperate to appease it, but loathe to sacrifice any more innocents to the lindworm’s hunger, a man at last was chosen. He had served time, and thus could be counted expendable, and moreover he was willing, if by his life or death he might bring an end to the killings. Then the witch came to the man, and told him this--"Marry the lindworm," she said, "but as a wedding present, demand that it shed its skins for you. When it is bare, whip it with switches soaked in lye and bathe it in milk. Then you might live, and the monster’s curse be broken.” 

Well, though he was afraid, the man gathered his courage and did as the witch told him. The lindworm’s snarls and gnashing teeth were terrible, but the man persevered, and as milk ran down the scales scrubbed raw by lye, they melted away, until all at once the lindworm was a man once more. Then the two were married, and lived happily ever after.*Inspired by a piece of Norwegian folklore about a lindworm and a princess, I was inspired to create this Valvert sketch. I’ve been toying with the idea for a while, and maybe one day I’ll actually get around to writing a fic, but in the meantime I thought it would be fun to bring it to this collab! Mostly, I thought that Javert could make an excellent snake-monster, and Valjean a very charming sacrificial bride. Plus the whipping is kinky. ;)

Lineart - Lafcadio: This was a very complex sketch!! Full of imagination. And from a fairy tale I didn’t know of before. I tried various brushes before finding ones that worked in a way I liked. Dylan's input was very helpful in this stage. 

Colours - Thoma: Upon hearing that this lindworm Javert was adapted from a Scandinavian tale, I searched for the tale at once, being unable to resist such a chance for an excellent story. The version I found was Norwegian, and so I took inspiration from the Norwegian bunad for the details of Valjean’s wedding attire—colors, embroidery, and openwork. Javert does not seem particularly appreciative at the moment, but I hope that he will later take great pleasure in removing these lovely garments!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



  


Sketch - Fish: I took inspiration of the skull header of Wendigos but apart from that, it's nothing like one. Javert was cursed by his people when he arrested the whole camp. The curse was to become a monster once he looked at the person he loved''s eyes (is that english correct? XD). The most he loved, the most monstrous would be. And taking all the Wolf/Tiger references by Victor Hugo I thought that a furry mammal huge monster would be perfect for him. For resources and full story, please just ask! 

Lineart - Dylan: I loved this because skulls, hair and fur are very fun to do line for. And big dicks are always a bonus <3 The sketch gave me so many ideas about what could be going on, a total treat to work on!

Colours - Emm: This piece was a challenge to color, both because it’s the most explicit piece I’ve ever rendered, and also because fur is so difficult to get right. I was told that Javert’s head is a tiger’s skull, so I kept the color palette tiger-adjacent, and gave the boys a jungle background in which to have their steamy encounter. I’m still not sure I did the concept justice, but it was a lot of fun to work on!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



  


Sketch - Lafcadio: I did a few paper sketches that I discarded. I had vampires in mind. A Dracula/Van Helsing sort of thing but I couldn’t do it in an interesting way, the guys looked too much like their regular selves. So one day I thought Valjean would make a great misunderstood minotaur, someone of great strength who had been cast in the role of the villain by those who misjudged him. And then I just added Javert, pleading at his feet after probably trying and failing to reduce him by violence. Valjean had to stop him with force but he obviously hates violence and is trying to explain himself and reason with Javert, make him understand he’s not the monster he thinks he is. I like to leave the scene unresolved... the viewer can choose to imagine what happens next. 

Lineart - Emm: I loved the textural quality of the original sketch, and wanted to try to honor that in the lineart, so I chose a softer, less uniform brush. Valjean makes a lovely, muscular minotaur!

Colours - Fish: I wasn't sure what was the first idea but the impression that gave me was J avert just founding out Valjean's true form and getting glorified/terrified for his presence. Green is the colour of the wicked and the magic while there is this Red Full Moon that has power over the supernatural so was the perfect combination for the appearance of the true form.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)



  


Sketch - Thoma: A gorgon Valjean, equipped with snakes and tusks, interested me for two reasons. 

First, because this monster works well with Valjean’s protective relationship to Cosette. A gorgon is a female monster, which emphasizes Hugo’s comparison of Valjean to a mother. A gorgon is also a protective monster. Amulets were once made in the shape of gorgon faces (gorgoneia), and I remember seeing them on pendants for children (bullae), meant to ward off evil. A gorgon’s own monstrosity (the very name means something like “horrifying”) deters other monsters by frightening them away. A fitting monster for a man who devotes the skills of a convict to the protection of one little girl. Better yet, the gorgon story evolved so that the monstrosity was a curse in punishment for some blasphemous act, which makes a nice parallel to Valjean’s social damnation.

Second, because a human who looks at a gorgon is supposed to turn to stone, and this is an apt interpretation of Javert’s derailment: when at last he truly sees Valjean, he is paralyzed, unable to make a move because both his choices are unacceptable.

In the world of this sketch, there is resolution: Javert has come un-paralyzed and chosen Valjean. Gorgon-Valjean’s snakes, however startling, are benevolent grass snakes. They are less reserved than their master and readily express Valjean’s emotions unless governed very strictly. They like to bask on Javert’s warm body, and take a dim view of Javert’s many-layered clothing in general and of buttons in particular. Although his initial instinct was to recoil from them, Javert has come to enjoy their affection, not to mention their talent for swallowing things.

Lineart - Fish: I am so sorry I had to touch this masterpiece. Working with Thoma is a pleasure that I never thought I would live enough to life. So much power and expression, so full of feelings and love in a monster way. 

Colours - Dylan: Being the mod I knew the ""sketch"" behind the line, but I tried to ignore my knowledge and go with my own ideas and Fish's wonderful lines. I only added back a tusk because it was missing in the line and it seemed important, I wish I had noticed before so I could have done something about it as a mod.Back to the colours, I wanted the scene to be soft despite the horny snakes being very obviously pushing our two lovebirds to move faster, but Valjean's gaze was so tender I just *knew* I wanted a soft scene! Knowing what kind of snake they were (Natrix helvetica, for the curious) was extremely helpful for choosing the palette and deciding Valjean's eye colour. Applying the snake texture was also fun, though a bit time consuming, I had a lovely time with this!