Title: Penance
Work ID: 31120364
Author: Knyaz_Nikolai
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Kinda, Angst, no betas we die like Javert on the bridge, is it any good? I don't know, but this prompt needed some old men, And angst, don't forget the angst
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
[S]ome things remained unchanged in this city as the months flew by — the bells of Notre Dame still rang every hour, the humm of the Seine filled the air and a tall, dark figure appeared on the Pont du Change at exactly 3:30.

Work text:


"

You know what you are, don't you

?" she asks. "

You're my salvation. My way to atone. To pay for everything I've done.

"



Anna Dressed in Blood


 


It was cold on that day. The spring air was refreshing but the chill of the night drew many people back to their homes so the normally busy streets of Paris remained empty. It was not safe outside, they said, even a year after the rebellion the blood still ran hot and the vultures were still waiting for their feast, always hungry for more. But some things remained unchanged in this city as the months flew by — the bells of Notre Dame still rang every hour, the hum of the Seine filled the air and a tall, dark figure appeared on the Pont du Change at exactly 3:30. 



Unobserved by anyone, away from the prying eyes thanks to the mist and the darkness that stretched over the city, the figure always stopped in the middle of the bridge, approached the quay and stared at the river, unmoving. Clad in a long, black coat and a slightly worn top hat the man — for it must have been a man — seemed to be deep in thought over one matter or another. From time to time it looked as if he wanted to walk away but ultimately he always stayed in his place, as if held there by a strange, invisible force. 



This May night was different in one aspect — in the mist that covered the area a single light could be seen, a small one, barely lighting the way by chasing away the shadows. One might have said that it looked like a light from a candle and it would not be too far from the truth. Another figure approached the man on the bridge — one holding a candlestick with a burning candle.



The two figures were now standing on the bridge, side by side and yet one would be hard-pressed to find another pair that looked more different. The man with the candlestick, as could be judged the closer one looked at him, did not seem to need the light at all. There was an odd sort of radiance to him, an almost ethereal light that shone from him, a halo of white locks around his head, warmth in the glittering, green eyes. He gazed at his companion, silent but expectant, waiting for him to make the first move. 



The hands on the quay tightened, the knuckles getting whiter than they already were. Thin lips were pressed into a tight line and the nostrils flared for a moment, giving the man an appearance of a wild beast, the sideburns dishevelled, an almost feral look in the grey eyes. 



“You were right.”



Javert’s voice was hoarse as he forced the words out, almost spitting them like a curse. Yet despite the harshness of this delivery there was something peculiar about it, something odd about the usually confident inspector of the police. Never in his life had Javert expressed anything that would bear a mark of uncertainty. He was confident in his words, absolute in his judgements for he had the law on his side and with it he could not fail. His irreproachability a badge of honour, something that made him stand straighter, not afraid of the looks levelled at him, the scowls, the scorn. And yet it was not confidence with which he said those words. There was a vulnerability there, certainly not expressed on purpose, rather a crack in the facade. 



“Was I?”



Valjean asked gently, making no move to run away from the inspector nor coming closer. He peered at the man beside him, trying to discern something from Javert’s expression but his face became a blank slate once more and the inspector looked more like a statue than a living man. 



“You know you were.”



Javert turned his head to face him, the exasperation in his voice obvious to anyone who would listen. But there was no one there, only the two of them and the roar of the river beneath.



“The law was meant to be just. It all made sense — you break it, you get punished, it’s as simple as that. There are people who guard the law, there are people who prey on the society. Clear lines, simple decisions.”



He sounded almost wistful as the words spilled from his mouth, there was no hiding the longing in his voice, yearning for a more straightforward world where he had his role and he filled it perfectly. But what was then filling him with a sense of accomplishment was now leaving him tasting ash in his mouth.



“From my experience life is rarely simple.”



For the first time Javert’s lips stretched into a parody of a smile as he barked incredulous laughter, bitter and sarcastic. 



“Yes, 

your experience.

 And what experience it is! From a prisoner to a mayor. From a mayor to a prisoner once more but then a father, a good man, a-”



The words stopped abruptly as Javert choked on them, unable to continue. A violent shiver rocked his body but it was uncertain whether it was a result of a particularly cold gust of wind or the emotions swirling inside of the man who thought himself made of stone. 



Valjean just shook his head gently, a small smile on his face as if listening to the story of his life, so tragic and full of painful twists, was nothing but amusing. 



“Every person possesses a capacity both for good and evil. Everyone can change, it’s never too late. The law… It’s set in stone, it can not see the people, their hearts, it just sees the deeds. Decisions, sometimes made out of desperation, temporary foolishness.”



A huff from Javert was his only answer, the man clearly not impressed by this speech, nevermind the wisdom of Valjean’s words. Javert’s whole stance seemed to scream at Valjean 

‘I’ve already said you were right, why won’t you leave me alone?’

 but Valjean ignored the silent message, focusing instead on the river, roaring below them. 



“Your words are wasted on me. I… See my flaws now, I see that instead of irreproachable I was… Well, it doesn't really matter now, does it? So what do you want? 

Why 

are you here?”



It was obvious that Javert did not want to make this conversation any easier for Valjean, twisting the words and never answering the true question, determined to circle around the subject never touching it.



“I’m here to help and to understand. Tell me, rather, what do 

you

 want, Javert?”



Valjean’s quiet question was met with a stony look from the inspector. He remained unmoving as if contemplating the question, looking for an appropriate answer. The silence stretched between them, agonising but both of them were reluctant to break it. Finally, Javert seemed to find an appropriate answer. He looked at the man beside him.



“Sometimes it is too late. To change, that is.”



For the first time this night a truly anguished look settled on Valjean’s face, as he looked at the taller man, pain visible in his eyes. He opened his mouth to say something, anything that would help, that would reassure the man but then he fell silent, the right words escaping him. Were there even right words in a situation like that? Was there anything to be said? 



“I’m sorry it took me so long to come here.”



True regret rang in his voice, his gaze on the stones beneath their feet, eyes looking down in shame that burned inside of him. Javert did not seem to notice that, silent and pensive. He shook his head.



“You have nothing to apologize for.”



Came a silent reply, almost too quiet to hear. It was a miracle Valjean even wanted to see him after all they’ve been through after he tried to ruin his life at every turn, always there to catch him, to remind him that he was and always will be a galley-slave, worth nothing to him or to the society. What prey seeks out its predator? What hero does not rejoice at the news of his enemy’s failure? Apparently the answer to both of those questions was “Valjean”, this infuriating, perplexing, breathtaking man.



“I don’t deserve your apologies. You should not even be there. Shouldn’t you be watching over your daughter?”



Javert pressed his lips together till they formed a thin line. No, Valjean should not be there, not with him and not now. 



“Be gone with you. I need neither your pity nor your guidance. It’s too late for that.”



He turned towards Valjean, his tone harsh, regaining some of the quality it had before all of this, before this mess that was his existence now. Valjean just stared at him, something soft in his eyes. Javert flinched, hating this sight. 



“Are you deaf? Get thee hence, I said!”



A snarl that came from his chest was more of a cry of a wounded animal than a ferocious roar and this effect was only accentuated by the fact that Javert was now looking at the ground, at the quay, everywhere but at Valjean. The white-haired man sighed and took a step forward, getting closer to the inspector.



“Oh, Javert.”



He raised his hand and slowly put it under the inspector’s chin, gently tilting the man’s head up but Javert drew back violently as if struck, a wild look in his eyes. He tore the top hat from his head, his hair no longer in a neat queue but loose, the long tresses swirling in the wind. A choked-up sob threatened to escape his lips but he stopped himself. 



Looking to the side he found that the sky was getting brighter, the dawn fast approaching. The bells in the cathedral rang four and Javert felt his heart beating to their rhythm.



“It is time.”



He said that with an odd sense of finality and how could he not? Wasn’t it his fate every night for the past year? Shouldn’t he get used to that by now? Javert closed his eyes for a moment, savouring the last gusts of air, for a moment forgetting about Valjean’s presence. When he opened them he was calm again. At least one path in his life still remained straight. No, Valjean would not complicate 

this.




“I’ll come tomorrow. I promise, Javert.”



The man remained silent. Slowly, methodically, he laid his hat on the quay and then he stood up next to it, looking down into the abyss before him. It was calling him, waiting, opening its arms invitingly, offering him this blissful oblivion, some rest before another night full of doubts. It hid him from the light but, most importantly now, it hid him from Valjean.



Javert remained silent, not repeating his request. No honour left, no dignity — so what if Valjean sees this as well? Let him feast his eyes, maybe being a witness to this act would drive him away. He took a deep breath. One step forward and he was falling down, down, down- 



Valjean gasped, his eyes full of tears that threatened to spill. He looked down at the river, noticed the dangerous currents, heard the deafening roar but it remained unchanged, unaffected by the events that took place. It felt… Wrong, somehow. How can the world go on after something like that? How can a man, so proud and so sure, be pushed to such extreme? There were no answers waiting for him down there, only more questions. 



The mist slowly lifted, the first rays of sun lighting the streets, the birds announcing the beginning of a new day. Invisible to everyone, Jean Valjean turned from the quay and started walking away with a heaviness in his heart, leaving behind the empty bridge.
