Title: the softness of your hair, the roughness of your scars
Work ID: 31230617
Author: 
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Blow Jobs, Bathroom Sex, Fluff and Smut, Body Worship, Strength Kink, I guess there is no division into dom/sub top/bottom, Is Valjean teasing or really that innocent?, who knows? not the author, no beta we die like men, Post-Seine, Javert Lives
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Valjean prepares a bath for Javert who comes back home after a long day at work. Miscommunication and smut ensue.

Work text:


Javert could not remember the last time he felt so tired after coming back to Valjea- 

their

 home. For some reason work was now more exhausting than ever with Patron-Minette still at large and the police still having a lot to do even months after the failed revolution. The criminals who got rich during this turbulent time have already spent all their money and were now back to their usual ways — it made Javert grit his teeth in frustration. Added to that was the fact that Gisquet was still very offended because of the note he received from him and… Well, it was clear that these days Javert had his hands full of work.



Maybe that was the reason why, when he saw the concerned look on Valjean’s face, he allowed the man to draw him a bath. Usually, they both thought that it was an unnecessary indulgence and opted against such things, choosing instead to wash themselves in cold water but this time Javert’s muscles screamed at him to accept this offer and relax, even for a short time. 



He knew he made the right choice the moment Valjean’s face got brighter, happy that he could help him in some way. It still concerned him from time to time, how much Valjean wanted to be useful, to help others, disregarding his own wishes and desires. But who was he to refuse the man? After all, Valjean knew very well that there was little Javert would deny him and less still he wouldn’t at least consider. And so Valjean went to prepare the hot water — the portress had been sent away for the evening — and Javert had some time to prepare himself. 



Walking into the bathroom the first thing he noticed was the steam that made the whole room look like a meadow early in the morning during summer — misty but hot. He was already aware of his shirt slowly dampening and sticking to his body, unpleasantly reminding him of the thin layer of sweat that covered his skin. His gaze, however, was immediately drawn to Valjean who was seated on the chair in the corner, his cravat discarded, top buttons of his crisp white shirt undone. His curls seemed to be even more pronounced now, the result of steam filling the room. He looked… Well, Javert had a great many words for how he looked, each more inadequate than the previous one. But he also noticed some weariness in his eyes, some tiredness that took a hold of Valjean’s body. 



“Are you certain you don’t need the bath more than I do?”



Despite his words he was already untying his cravat and unbuttoning his waistcoat, refusing to suffer this heat longer than necessary. His fingers worked diligently as the buttons were coming undone, one after the other. His gaze, however, was still on Valjean.



“Are you suggesting something?”



The white-haired man smiled gently, uncrossing his legs and although he seemed to be merely curious there was a hint of mischief in his eyes as he answered. Suddenly, Javert felt as if he lost the ability to do something as simple as taking off his waistcoat and his hands fumbled for a while before taking the garment off and folding it neatly. His expression was carefully blank as his mind was assaulted with the images of him, bathing with Valjean. The man’s strong form, his arms wrapped around him, his hand on… He swallowed thickly, looking at the man who still seemed to await his answer. 



“Maybe.”



His voice was devoid of all feelings, lest it betrayed his anxiousness at Valjean’s answer. Would he accept? Was the same image burned out in his mind, tantalizing and tempting? Why did his mouth feel so dry despite the dampness that was omnipresent in the bathroom? He tried to focus on something else, opting for unbuttoning his shirt. 



There was no timidness or hesitation in his gestures on his part — they had seen each other naked, knew themselves, their bodies better than anyone else, there were no secrets between them. Javert hoped that he taught Valjean that there was no shame in his scars and Valjean, in turn, taught Javert not to be too critical about his looks. It was a long process as they both seemed to be unable to believe that anyone can find them attractive and yet… There they were, closer than any of them thought was possible for two, broken people like themselves.



“Let me know if you need my help.”



Valjean’s voice cut through the room, bringing Javert back to reality and making him snap his head towards the smiling man who was looking at him tenderly, his chin supported by his hand.



“That’s not what I-”



He stopped himself, shaking his head. Sometimes Valjean was too innocent, a saint on this earth, not understanding certain looks or words, deciding to interpret them in a purer way than Javert intended. Sometimes it made him frustrated, other times ashamed. This time he just shook his head in exasperation and tried not to think about the vision he had just a second ago.



“You did not tell me how your day went.”



He reminded him, getting rid of the remaining clothes and slowly lowering himself into the hot water. He stopped a moan of pleasure from escaping his throat as he felt all of his muscles starting to relax. This was definitely a splendid idea. With a soft sigh, he leaned against the back of the bathtub, his eyelids drooping in pleasure. 



Valjean kept his eyes on him, observing his every gesture and expression, happy that he finally had Javert beside him. The last few days were hard — Javert was working long hours and so they did not see each other a lot and Valjean had to admit it bothered him. He’s gotten so used to the inspector’s presence that now his absence pained him more than he would care to admit. 



“That’s because nothing has happened. Though I wish it would stop raining, there are so many things that can be done in the garden.”



A wistful sigh escaped Valjean’s mouth as he looked outside the window, listening to the raindrops hitting the glass. There were hints of sadness on his face now and Javert could not stand the thought of allowing Valjean to go on like that. He knew where it always led, dark thoughts hanging over Valjean like a stormy cloud, shielding him from all happiness. Thus, to prevent it from happening, a distraction was in order.



“Would you mind?”



He pointed to his long hair, already somewhat wet and Valjean’s immediate answer was a smile and a nod of his head. Since Cosette was no longer a child (and no longer lived there, truth be told) Valjean did not have many chances to wash long hair. He remembered that this activity soothed him, there was something calming in the steady, gentle movements.



“What's going on, Valjean?”


The man in question knelt behind the bathtub, carefully taking care of Javert’s tresses so he could not see the concern in Javert’s eyes — nonetheless, it was still audible in his voice. Valjean remained silent for a moment or two, his brows furrowed in concentration. 



“Nothing, it's just... I was thinking about the past, nothing in particular.”


Javert closed his eyes, listening to him, feeling the lather on his head. He had no answer for that, the topic remained a dangerous one. Their past wasn’t pleasant and thinking about it only served to make Javert feel guilty and Valjean sombre. Sensing his inner conflict, Valjean dipped his head down to lay a soft kiss on Javert’s bare shoulder. 



“What's more important is what I have now. I'm glad you're here, I couldn’t wish for more.”



Was it the feeling of soft lips on his skin that made him shiver? Or was it a result of the kind words that Valjean had always seemed to have for him? Javert did not know, he just moved his head to look at Valjean, hints of concern in his eyes.



“You say it's nothing and yet... You could wish for a great many things. You just decide not to and I'm too selfish to be unhappy about that.”


Unable to stand this conversation his next course of action seemed obvious. His wet hand grabbed a fistful of Valjean’s white shirt and he pulled the man toward him, bringing their lips together. Valjean’s hands found his arms, using them for support and he enthusiastically returned the kiss, also yearning for a moment of peace. 



Just for a moment, nothing else mattered — Javert’s exhaustion, Patron-Minette, Valjean’s dark thoughts. It all disappeared when they were together, still discovering each other, trying to give the other as much pleasure as possible. 



It was Valjean that broke the kiss, his lungs burning from the lack of oxygen.



“You know... I could wish for something.”


Valjean’s voice was a little breathless, his lips red from Javert’s ministrations. This sight, Valjean looking so utterly exquisite, debauched almost, made Javert purr appreciatively. 



“For example?”


His grey eyes were now pools of black, blown wide by the desire, so thick in his voice, so visible by his bodily reactions. He awaited Valjean’s next words, his body tensing despite the hot water that willed him to relax.


Valjean got back to his previous position, his hands leaving Javert’s hot skin. He smiled gently, looking at the long, dark hair.



“I wish to finish washing your hair, dear, you still have got soap in it.”



Javert wanted to howl from frustration. How was it possible for Valjean to be so irresistible, so yielding in some ways and yet completely oblivious in other matters? Twice now Javert’s eagerness got the better of him and only made him more frustrated. 



Almost childishly he returned to his previous position, pursing his lips and closing his eyes.



“...you tease.”



That remark seemed to only amuse Valjean who laughed at that and continued washing Javert’s hair. Slowly, the remaining soap was washed out of his hair, leaving it falling down like a waterfall, occasionally disturbed by Valjean’s gentle fingers. 



“Maybe. But you’ve had your revenge — my shirt is all wet because of you. I'll have to change it”



Javert gave him a look over his shoulder and turned back again, trying to sound as casual as possible. 



“You can always take it off, it's not like there's anyone besides us.”



The house was empty and the evening was quiet. No one would disturb them at this hour and Valjean’s scars would remain unseen, a secret that only Javert was privy to. And if Javert had another reason for suggesting that, other than Valjean’s comfort, well… That was only for him to know.



“You're right.”



Apparently, Valjean recognised the logic of his suggestion and decided to follow it, slowly standing up and unbuttoning the last button of his shirt. He walked towards the chair that stood in the corner, taking off the garment and folding it neatly. In the dim light and the steam that still hung in the air the scars on his back appeared to be deeper than they were. But nowadays, when Valjean was looking at them… Why, sometimes he thought he saw a tree, with its branches spread wide.



Javert’s hungry eyes followed Valjean’s form, taking in as much as possible. There was something indescribably perfect about Valjean’s body. Many would say that it was not free of its imperfections, the scars marrying his back, but Javert did not see that. He saw the skin that he knew would be hot beneath his hand. He saw the muscles shifting beneath it, he remembered the strength hidden in those arms. Almost subconsciously he licked his lips, his throat suddenly dry. Valjean turned towards him and Javert was struck again but his beauty. The small, white hair that sparsely covered his broad chest, the tattoo that would disgust him in the past, now providing a contrast to his milky skin.



“Any other wishes?”



Javert knew that Valjean meant it innocently. He probably wanted to accommodate him, help him wash his back and yet his own thoughts… God forgive him but his thoughts were far from these types of activities. 



Slowly, entranced by the sight before him Javert stood up and then got out of the bathtub, standing on the soft material of a rug. His eyes took in Valjean’s form once, twice and then settled on his face. He found only curiosity in the green eyes, a gentle patience with which Valjean waited for his answer, an explanation.



“I want... I…”



He was a man of few words but the ones he had deserted him, leaving him unable to express his desires. He extended his hand towards Valjean, bidding him to come closer. He wanted to feel these hands on his body, he wanted to worship Valjean as he never worshipped the law.



Valjean did not deny him — sometimes Javert wondered whether he was even able to do so. Well, far be it for him to complain, especially now. 


Just as he expected, Valjean’s skin was hot to touch, despite his own being warm after his time spent in the bath. At first, his touch had been tentative — he gingerly reached for Valjean’s arm, letting his fingers touch the skin there. His other hand settled on Valjean’s side, drawing him even closer. He heard the sharp intake of breath from the shorter man and maybe he would laugh about this if he wasn’t breathless himself.



“What do you wish for?”



The question was asked so softly that Javert wondered whether it was even posed but the anticipation in Valjean’s eyes told him enough. He bowed his head, his lips finding Valjean’s neck and he started leaving a trail of small kisses there, getting bolder and bolder as he went. 



“If I could…” — he said, between the kisses — “I would take all your worries… Make you forget about everything.”



He wished for it with all his heart. For Valjean to finally find peace, forget the past and find new happiness, with him by his side, ideally. Right now the only thing he could do was to distract Valjean from his worries.



Valjean moved his head to allow Javert better access to his neck and sighed softly, his handson Javert’s sides. They were standing close, almost chest to chest and Valjean thought he could hear Javert’s erratic heartbeats, not so different from his own. He blushed as if just realising his lover’s state of undress and the general direction of this situation.



“I would say you’re doing quite well.”



Javert huffed, his teeth gently grazing Valjean’s skin. He did not want to merely 

do well

, he wanted to excel in what he was doing. And then… And then there were his own needs and urges, his own desires that he kept hidden till now. He moved to look into Valjean’s eyes.



“May I-”



He did not finish, he didn’t have to. Valjean nodded his assent, never the one to deny him anything. They stayed like that for a moment, looking at each other, trying to think, to 

decide.

 Ultimately, it was Javert that moved first. Before he could say anything, Valjean had a police inspector on his knees before him. Valjean’s eyes got bigger, his breathing more laboured. He made a move as if he wanted to draw back but Javert’s strong hands on his sides kept him in place.



“Javert, no-”



It wasn’t the fact that he was unwilling or did not think about it himself many times. It was just… In Valjean’s mind it was belittling, humiliating and not at all considerate. He did not want these things for Javert, he did not want him like that, looking at him like one would look at the holy cross hung on the wall. He did not deserve it, he did not. 

And yet

… 



The thought was intoxicating, the temptation too much, everything was begging him to surrender to this and he felt his body respond to this situation against his will. With wide eyes, half scared and half aroused, he looked at Javert who was kneeling before him.

On his part, Javert was holding onto Valjean like a drowning man clinging to anything that could keep him afloat. His eyes roamed over the expanse of Valjean’s chest and then his legs, his hands moving on their own accord, gently trailing up and down Valjean’s thighs. There, right before his eyes was visible evidence of Valjean’s arousal, a sight that made Javert shiver in anticipation, his whole body tensing and relaxing at the same time. Slowly, as if not to scare Valjean away, his hand moved towards the front of Valjean’s trousers, hovering over the buttons, fingers twitching.


“Please, allow me to- Please, Jean.”



The tone of his voice was almost pleading but he had to convey that this is what he 

wanted

. It was no sacrifice on his part, there was no humiliation, no shame. He wanted Valjean to understand but he was ready for both agreement and rejection. He wet his lips, bowed his head in supplication and awaited Valjean’s decision. 



They could have stayed like that for a few seconds, a minute or an hour, time seemed immaterial then. Javert felt Valjean’s gaze on him, its heavy weight and scorching intensity. He felt he was being judged like he wasn’t before. Finally, after what felt like an eternity, a soft sigh escaped Valjean’s lips.



“Oh, Javert.”



Hearing that he raised his head and was glad to see that apparently the desire within Valjean has won over the trepidation. He had to physically restrain himself, not wanting to descend upon Valjean like a hungry animal lest he scare the man off. Instead, his fingers deftly unbuttoned Valjean’s trousers, the soft material falling down onto the floor, his undergarments following suit. 



Valjean was already half hard, his cock swelling with blood and the inspector pondered the sight before him to Valjean’s great embarrassment. But Javert was not a cruel person, not unnecessarily so and so he drew closer, his hot breath ghosting over Valjean’s sensitive manhood. The man in question jerked back with a strangled cry but Javert held him fast, trying to calm him. 



“It’s ok, it’s ok…”



His own voice was hoarse, eyes greedily drinking in the sight of naked Valjean who was now clutching his arm desperately, trying not to fall. The weight was welcomed by Javert who did not mind but rather relished in the physical contact. He felt Valjean’s eyes on him and he knew what to do. 



Slowly he pressed closer, his tongue darting out as he licked Valjean’s cock from the base to the tip. His action was rewarded by a drawn-out moan and a squeeze to his shoulder which made him tremble — what terrifying, tantalizing strength was lurking there. The thought that he was (although only in theory) in the more vulnerable position, that Valjean, if he only so wanted, could do 

anything

 to him and yet it was him who dictated the rules, who made Valjean react like that… What a lovely thought that was!



Sensing the trembling muscles beneath his hand Javert decided to toy no longer — he licked the slit, wet from the pre-cum and then he took Valjean into his mouth. The slightly salty taste did not bother him, just as he was not scared because of his relative lack of experience. They had time, they could… Discover things together.



The heavy weight on his tongue felt so pleasant that he could not stop an appreciative murmur from escaping his lips. He had almost regretted making this noise as the vibrations made Valjean buckle his hips, almost choking him in the process. However, he recovered quickly, slowly moving up and down Valjean’s shaft, learning its weight, its shape, its taste. 



Kneeling before Valjean with his dick in mouth was almost a religious experience for Javert, an unworthy servant at the altar of Valjean’s body. His reward? The hand clutching his arm almost painfully, the chocked up sounds from above. He felt as if he was being blessed or receiving a great gift which was not that far from the truth. 



Looking up, he beheld Valjean — the older man’s curls were now in disarray, his eyes half-closed, his mouth thrust into the crook of his elbow to stop the noises that kept coming — the moans, the sobs, the prayers and praises. 

Good God, Javert I- Please! Oh God, I’m- Please, don’t stop

, all these words were like music to Javert’s ears, only encouraging him to be more enthusiastic in his ministrations.



It was hard to express how grateful he was for not having any clothing on, his painfully hard manhood throbbing and aching with need but at least not confined in the coarse material of his pants. However, despite his own desperation there was also a pleasure in denying yourself, Javert found out, in pursuing another person’s happiness. And pursue relentlessly he did, responding to the shallow thrusts of Valjean’s hips (an uncontrollable movement, certainly). 



His jaw started to ache but he never stopped, licking and sucking, his hand massaging Valjean’s side. Finally, he felt that tell-tale tremble, a small shiver that went through Valjean’s body and he knew that he was close. Green eyes, wide and full of adoration gazed at him, and never before have Javert felt so blessed, so sure of Valjean’s love.



“Javert, please, I’m- I can’t-”



Javert only looked at him, trying to calm him down, assuring him that it was ok, that he was allowed to let go. Then, another idea occurred to him. Drawing his head back, he heard an almost keening noise from Valjean, who was mourning the loss of this warmth that was the source of his pleasure. Javert, however, did not let him mourn for long. Taking Valjean’s cock in his hand he stroked once, twice and he did not know what happened first — did he hear a long, strangled moan falling from Valjean’s lips or did he feel his come, falling in short spurts on his naked torso, on his hand and on his face. 



Before Valjean could protest, he took him once again into his mouth, determined to clean the mess he created. He licked at the overly sensitive skin of Valjean’s cock, he tasted his cum, which filled his mouth with its salty taste. He took it all in, relished in it and only one touch of his own hand was enough to make him come. He moaned, a deep and desperate sound, muffled only by Valjean’s slowly softening manhood that was still in his mouth. 



With a soft ‘pop’ he drew back, looking up at Valjean from his position. There was no sight more beautiful than this — Valjean with his cheeks flushed, his white hair a halo around his head, his eyes so full of adoration that Javert felt as if he stood in the presence of the Sun itself. 



A moment passed. The bathroom was now clear of steam and the only noise heard was their heavy breathing as they froze in their positions like statues, unable to move. Valjean, the looming saint, Javert, a faithful dog at his feet.
