Title: L’Ombre Suprême
Work ID: 31733953
Author: iberiandoctor (jehane)', 'MagicFishHook
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: references to noncon, Dubious Consent, Identity Issues, Power Dynamics, Canon Era, Post-Seine, Sexy Toulon, Collars, Blowjobs for Justice, Alternate Universe - BDSM, Angst with a Happy Ending, Art, NSFW Art
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 3/3

Summary:
Valjean has escaped twice from the discipline of Toulon; Javert has escaped the June barricades and then the Seine. Can they find their way to freedom with each other?

Work text:


Is it another deception? Is Valjean finally surrendering to custody, or is he submitting to Javert's claim? 

It is impossible to concentrate as the man's lips close over Javert with terrible gentleness, with skill that comes from years of practice and urgency that comes from years of drought.




Part 1.1 — Rue Plumet; October, 1832



The October afternoon is as warm as the ones preceding it. The unseasonably-hot summer still clings to the streets of the old quarter north of the Faubourg Saint-Germain and refuses to yield for autumn. 

Sitting in an armchair that does not belong to him, the former Inspector Javert finds some gallows humour in the fancy that even the weather in Paris has been thrown out of sorts, and nothing in his life will ever be the same again.

For him, all of Paris has been unutterably changed from before the failed June rebellion, when hard-eyed young revolutionaries took him prisoner at the barricades at the Rue de la Chanvrerie; when a man who had every reason to hate him and to want him dead gave him back his life, not once but twice over. Since that afternoon at the barricades, since that night at the Seine, when that man had saved him and he, Javert, had allowed it — overturning every single thing Javert had ever known and believed in, rending the foundations of his very existence from top to bottom — the world has stopped making any sense at all.

Javert first encountered that man, Jean Valjean, in the bagne of Toulon, where criminals not to be trusted with their own morality were taught to submit their vile passions to the mastery of the guards, for the good of society and for the prisoners themselves. A guard of sufficient seniority and moral character was permitted under the Ancien Régime to select a submissive of his own, and adjutant-guard Javert had once aspired to being given the honour of placing his collar around Valjean’s thick, bull-like neck, which no other guard before him had the strength to tame. 

The 1810 Napoleonic Code swept away such ideals as well as royalist notions. Javert joined the Paris police and was fooled into thinking the new Régime a change for the better. When he encountered Valjean again, masquerading as the upstanding mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, he was thrown into a state of confusion which the Bourbon restoration and the restoration of discipline at the bagne had only exacerbated. In Montreuil, he and Madeleine— he and Valjean — sought to consummate their unfinished business by entering into a relationship they had not achieved in Toulon; instead they only managed to make a complete ruin of each other’s lives. Madeleine fled, and Javert pursued him, swearing that he would not rest until he found the convict and had him on his knees where he belonged. 

The last laugh was on Javert, though, for Valjean has now returned to his life, under circumstances which Javert could not have expected in a hundred years. He returned Javert’s life, and nothing in that life has been the same.

"You are free," Valjean said at the barricades. Somehow, this criminal was able to remain pure and virtuous for decades where Javert himself could not. Even more, Valjean showed his old enemy a mercy of which only a just man could be capable; showed Javert that all Javert’s notions of justice and society were an illusion, that Javert’s blameless life and career were nothing but a sham.

But when Javert tried to do the only decent thing he could, by making an ending at the Seine so Valjean would finally be free of him, he discovered he was not in fact free at all. His life was forfeit to Jean Valjean, and Valjean has compelled him to keep living in it.

And despite himself, Javert continues to live that life, an inspector no longer. The leg he injured in his leap from the parapet at the Quai des Gesvres will never be the same again. Now he spends his mornings helping librarians catalogue old files at the police archives in the Quai des Orfèvres, and his nights in Ultime Fauchelevent’s house, and he has nothing but time on his hands: time to wonder why he cannot bring himself to leave Rue Plumet even though he knows in good conscience he cannot stay. Thanks to Javert’s tenure, Valjean has had to house his beloved daughter at his other residence, an apartment at the Rue de l’Ouest; if she discovers the harm that he, Javert, brought to her dead mother and to Valjean himself, she would never suffer her father’s eccentric house guest to remain.

Doubtless Valjean knows this, and yet it is the mark of that man’s inexplicable goodness that he has allowed Javert to stay in his life and under his roof, even though Javert’s presence endangers Valjean’s child and Valjean’s secrets, and Valjean’s own liberty.

However, Javert cannot bring himself to leave. There are several possible reasons for this, and all of them distasteful. Were he a better man, he would not let them detain him from doing the rightful thing. 

He is not that better man. In Montreuil, he let a woman die; for years after, he hunted the man who had had the temerity to leave him, and called all of it justice. And he cannot leave Valjean’s house because he finds he cannot bear to leave the one anchor he has ever had to this wide world.







Part 1.2 — Montreuil-sur-Mer; March, 1822



When he had first gone to his knees before Javert on the night of the Saint-Valentin lottery, Madeleine had asked him, “Are you going to ask me to wear your collar?” 

Javert had not then understood why. Only later did he realise that it was a test: a gruelling challenge which could only have been issued by Jean-le-Cric, that beast of the bagne. And the test was this: if Javert asked the question in order to coerce Valjean’s response, he would not be worthy of Valjean’s trust or his submission.

Javert was not entirely convinced that such coercion would be wrong. By the dictates of the Ancien Régime, which the Bourbons had in the last year restored to the bagnes of France, former convicts like Jean Valjean required correction and discipline in order to adhere to the proper moral path. Javert would have been within his rights in Toulon to press the issue — as an officer of the law, he knew better than a criminal what was necessary to protect society, and the criminal from himself; the Law empowered him to use that knowledge as he saw fit. 

He would not, of course, have had the authority to discipline a free man, let alone a mayor and magistrate of the town, but this mayor, Madeleine, in fact held his position under a false name. The person who had slipped off the bagne’s choke-collar and who had disguised himself with the respectable scarf of a legislator, was a felon and fugitive, who required to be saved from himself by the power the Law had vested in Javert.

And yet … and yet, despite his unquestionable authority, Javert hesitated. Even as a young guard in Toulon, when he had found himself on the receiving end of Valjean’s challenging gaze, as if Valjean were daring him to make the choice, Javert always stayed his hand. He told himself then that it was out of natural prudence, wishing to be certain of his own capabilities before presuming to discipline another, but perhaps the real reason was pride — wanting the beast of the bagne to choose him willingly, to desire to wear his collar. Perhaps there were other reasons as well. 

As for the falseness of the mayor, this matter plagued Javert for weeks and months since his discovery thereof at the Saint-Valentin lottery. He sent for various books on post-Napoleonic jurisprudence; he would have considered seeking counsel from the town’s lawyer, an unpleasant man known as Fauchelevent, if it were at all possible. 

Finally Javert arrived upon the not-entirely-satisfactory solution: it might be justifiable not to report a parole-breaker for his continuing offence of rupture du ban if he were to resume his parole with a designated officer. Further, it might be permissible for a former convict to continue to serve the public if assurances could be given that said convict was no longer a danger to society — for instance, if that convict were the collared submissive of an agent of the law. 

Yielding to Javert’s collar could be the one thing that could keep Valjean at liberty: and yet Javert could not bring himself to demand it, not until he could be sure Valjean could choose it freely.

This was the uneasy détente they had arrived at in the year following that first Saint-Valentin lottery in Montreuil, when Madeleine had confessed his true identity by going to his knees before Javert in partial surrender. In the day, Madeleine was free to carry out his duties at his factory and have the run of the town. At night, Javert would visit the mayor’s residence to receive what he told himself was Madeleine’s parole. He would pass the night in Madeleine’s bedchamber, leaving before first light to return to his own rooms or relieve the night watch at the station-house. 

Their relations had involved a constant challenge over these many months, a constant test of wills. They were, after all, both vigorous men who knew their own minds; surrender would always be a hard-won affair, and truth be told, Javert would not have it any other way. There was nothing quite like getting into bed with a wild beast who could take off a man’s hand, but who settled restlessly under Javert’s, and accepted his caresses, and leaned into his touch when they slept.

Over this second tumultuous winter, and the second lottery, they had progressed far enough to perform their morning ablutions together. Madeleine’s bedchamber was a bare, Spartan affair; he had no mirror save for a sliver of glass balanced carefully on a shelf in the bath-room, and by the dawn’s light Javert would shave him and then assist him with his clothes and cravat, after which Valjean would return the favour.

“Your cravat is fraying,” Javert remarked on that frosty morning, his fingers making neat work of the cotton under the mayor’s chin. Valjean would not suffer to wear a stock under the white wings of his shirt collar; Javert knew that the starched cotton hid the marks of the bagne’s iron collar which Valjean had worn for nineteen years.

“No more so than yours,” Valjean remarked, in Madeleine’s mild tone of voice. 

“I am not the mayor of this town. I would have M. le Maire clothed with the dignity of his office.” 

Valjean drew away, a gleam in his eye. “I thought it unwise to draw further attention to my appearance, particularly during the Saint-Valentin season,” he said, lightly. 

Javert scoffed. “Ridiculous. The widows of this town will accost you in tattered clothing just as readily as in finery. There is no end to their boldness.”

Valjean’s lips twisted with Jean-le-Cric’s savage amusement, which made Javert’s throat go dry. “Well, then, assuming the ladies allow me to remain unmolested over the course of this day, I will return home for dinner at six o’clock, when your shift is over.”

Javert swallowed, thickly; his hands slid from Valjean’s throat down Valjean’s body of their own volition. “See that you are not late, M. le Maire.”

“I would not dream of disappointing M. l’Inspecteur,” Valjean said, and seized hold of Javert’s wrists. 

Javert breathed, “You have never disappointed me.” They grappled with one other; in their ongoing test of wills, this morning it was the mayor who submitted. Although he was unquestionably the stronger, he allowed Javert push to him against the fading wallpaper and hold on to his collar and undo his trouser flaps, and to work at his thick, heavy cock until he arrived at his pleasure.

Javert left the mayor’s residence in unusually high spirits. He returned to his lodgings and had a leisurely breakfast, and then made his way to the station-house to attend to the morning’s paperwork. 

At mid-morning he set out to stretch his legs. His perambulation of the city took him on a meandering route into Montreuil’s upper town, the older part of the city. 

When he came upon the cavée Saint-Firmin, the steep road at the entrance to the upper city, he saw that a great crowd had gathered there. 

“What the devil is going on?”

“Oh, Inspector Javert!” cried Mademoiselle Moreau, their post-mistress, from the fringes of the throng. “There’s been an accident! Father Fauchelevent is trapped beneath his cart!”

“Has someone sent for a jack-screw?” Javert demanded, pushing his way into the crowd.

“Yes, to Flachot's, where there is a farrier; but it will take a good quarter of an hour to arrive. M. Madeleine is trying to save him, but no one else will help—!" 

“—What?”

Javert redoubled his efforts, and thrust himself upon the scene which was as described: the horse-cart sinking in the wet, muddy ground, the odious lawyer about to be crushed to death in minutes, no one daring risk their lives to help, save for the mayor, Madeleine — who had stripped off his fine coat and hat, who had thrown himself under the cart, who was even now holding it, powerful arms and loins straining, and saving Fauchelevent’s life by risking his own.

"No!" someone cried out; Javert could barely recognise his own voice. Without transition, he found himself on his knees beside the cart; heedless of the danger, he put his own shoulder to the load beside Madeleine’s.

“Stay back,” Madeleine panted; “or the cart will crush you, too—” 

“…Ridiculous,” Javert wheezed. Bright sparks swam before his eyes. He was perilously close to losing consciousness. Beside him he could feel Valjean’s broad body shuddering under that massive load, large muscles on fire, barely able to keep hold of the impossible weight. He was only barely aware of others dragging Fauchelevent to safety from under the cart.

It fell to the mayor to lower the cart in such a way as to avoid crushing Javert thereunder. He then had the inspector conveyed to his home, both of them exhausted, their clothing torn and dirty, where they cleaned off the muck of the cavée Saint-Firmin. 

They did not ordinarily have a reason to be indoors during the day, let alone in Madeleine’s residence together, but they took advantage of this excuse. In the aftermath of the danger, Javert found himself shivering as he had not shivered since Toulon. He could not stop running his hands, restlessly, across the mayor’s warm skin, feeling the life running hotly beneath, that great heart drumming against his hungry, searching fingers: alive, alive, alive.

Eventually Valjean took control. He stilled Javert’s hands, and took his angry prick into his mouth, and drank down the agitation and longing that Javert did not know how to express. 

Gasping, Javert subsided, and rested his head on Valjean’s broad shoulder. “You are not to risk yourself again like that,” he muttered fiercely. “Do you understand me, Valjean? You do not only belong to yourself, you belong to me, and I will not allow it.”

“Do I belong to you?” Valjean asked. His voice was quiet; Javert fancied he could discern fondness in it, but he could not be sure. He realised with some dismay that he had never comprehended the first thing about Valjean, ever since the time Jean-le-Cric had fixed him with that hooded gaze in Toulon. Despite these months of clandestine parole in Montreuil, he was no closer to deciphering this mystery. 

He raised his voice in frustration. “Yes, damn it all! Yes, you do. You are mine; don’t forget it.” 

Valjean fixed him with impenetrable eyes. “If that is so, Inspector, then when will you ask me what you wish to ask?” 

This was the question; Javert knew it would always be the question. This time, shaken to the core by how close he had come to losing Valjean, he answered: “When you are first able to give me the answer I wish.”

At this, Valjean smiled a small, wry, guarded smile, and then Javert finally understood why it was that he had for these long months stayed his hand. It was out of fear: that Javert would fail the challenge; that he would be judged and found wanting, and that Valjean would have to refuse.

 

*

 

In the eyes of the people of Montreuil, the incident with Fauchelevent’s cart was the beginning of the intimate friendship between their mayor and Inspector Javert; there was nothing quite like a shared experience of near death to cement a bond. Their closeness so publicly established, it was entirely natural that these two dedicated public servants and confirmed bachelors should spend their time in private conversation together, on such matters as the state of crime in the town and public order statistics, and take their meals together, and eschew the company of widows and unmarried women in favour of each other.

Summer arrived in Montreuil and gave way once again to winter. The luxury of waking in Valjean’s arms in the mornings and dining at his supper table in the evenings lulled Javert into an ill-advised sense of safety, and he began to toy with the idea of asking Valjean to provide him with a time at which he might furnish his answer after all. 

But that was the calm before the storm. With the winter’s chill arrived a missive from Javert’s patron, M. Chabouillet, the powerful Secretary of the First Bureau in the Prefecture of Police in Paris, and that letter shattered the fragile accord that Javert had built with the man the world called Madeleine.

The letter gave a sober account of a crime committed in the previous month. A man had been arrested in the neighborhood near Ailly-le-Haut-Clocher for the theft of cider-apples; a misdemeanour. The jail being in a bad condition, the examining magistrate had transferred the man, known as Champmathieu, to the departmental prison, where an ex-convict named Brevet recognised him as the former criminal Jean Valjean. It transpired that, upon Valjean’s release from Toulon, he had engaged in further criminality: he had attempted to steal silver belonging to the Bishop of Digne (the Bishop had refused to press charges, and insisted that he had gifted the silver to the criminal), engaged in forcible robbery of a minor on the road from Digne, and then he had broken his parole and disappeared. 

Now he was once again in custody, and the prosecuting magistrates were attempting to ascertain testimony of his identity. Attempts at Faverolles had proved fruitless, for the family of Jean Valjean was no longer there, and inquiries were now being made of those who had known Valjean at Toulon, including the one upright guard who was now in an esteemed position with the Prefecture of Police in Paris. 

M. Chabouillet ended his missive by remarking that Javert had himself enquired into Valjean’s whereabouts in 1821, so he assumed Javert would remember the prisoner sufficiently to make a formal identification. 

The trial is scheduled for the next Court session, in February, his patron noted. Do feel free to correspond directly with Arras on the matter of your testimony.

Javert felt a great wave of unnameable emotion overtake him. These long months of accord, the carefully-constructed parole — they would soon all come crashing down, for his duty was clear. He was honour-bound to go to Arras to notify the magistrates that they had in their custody an innocent man. And from there, there was no means to avoid the lie by omission: he would be further required to reveal to the authorities that the criminal they were looking for — the irredeemable thief and robber, who would steal from priests and from children, this unrepentant parole-breaker — had spent the last seven years in Montreuil, living under an assumed name, and having seduced Montreuil’s reputedly incorruptible inspector into looking the other way.

It could not be explained. It was not to be tolerated. There was no means to protect Valjean. He must be denounced; as a recidivist, he would be returned to the bagne, and the ancient codes of discipline that once again held sway, and now there would be no Javert to watch over him.

I will tell him, Javert told himself desperately. I will tell him what I must do, and he will surely flee. 

But that would be abetting in a criminal’s escape from justice: the act of a morally corrupt individual, who had been so ensnared by that criminal’s amoral, infernally alluring wiles that he was willing to himself commit a crime. The Ancien Régime had the right of it: a criminal did not deserve control over his own sexuality, for he would always use it to harm others. And as for Javert — he had believed himself sufficiently strong and disciplined to collar this devious felon, and he had never been more wrong.

He avoided Madeleine’s dinner table that evening, and the evenings that followed; he found he had little appetite in any case. Pervading through the cold winter days was an oppressive calendar that counted inexorably down towards the re-opening of the Arras courts, and the days which a blameless man was spending in prison.

In the daytime, Javert could barely stand to be in Madeleine’s presence. He wanted nothing better than to rail at him: How could you steal from the Bishop of Digne, and a child, what is wrong with you, and I should have known you could never be trusted, but he could not do so unless he was prepared to abet a felon in his flight. 

Madeleine could not have failed to apprehend that something was amiss. Javert was confident that he had not given the game away, but he had no doubt that Jean Valjean’s cunning instincts could discern that which honest men did not reveal. He did not remark upon this change, though; like a true criminal, he kept his real thoughts and motives hidden.

Their nights, though, were a different story. Try as he might, Javert could not keep away; time and again, he found himself returning to Madeleine’s bed, seeking to convince himself of the criminality of Jean Valjean in the arms of this ex-convict. Without warning, at any and all hours of night, he would ram his aching prick down Valjean’s throat, and into the criminal’s burly, muscular body; he would hold him down and stop his breath and dig bruises into that scarred, weathered skin, would order Valjean to wring himself out or withhold from release, all the while scouring Valjean’s sweating face for the smallest sign of disobedience.

That sly criminal, Jean Valjean, gave no such sign. He submitted to Javert’s ill-use with the meekness of a well-trained servant; he yielded his bodily strength to Javert’s authority, opening beautifully around Javert’s insistent cock and surrendering himself up readily at the merest guidance. He gave such a perfect show of willing subservience that Javert could almost convince himself it was not a sham. 

Javert found himself desperately thinking, over and over, How can I keep you safe? and How can I keep you? He could not, of course, say these things out loud; instead, what he found himself repeating, into the side of Valjean’s neck, were the words he had said the night of the incident with Fauchelevent’s cart: “You belong to me.”

And Valjean said, “Yes. Yes, I do,” against Javert’s shoulder, against his skin.

 

*

 

The winter grew colder; colder than the ones Javert had experienced in his posting in Montreuil. The roads were covered with snow, the dandy young men of the town became fractious with nothing to amuse them, while the soldiers of the town grew restless from the cessation of outdoor drills. There was a corresponding rise in petty crime and outbreaks of drunken violence; Javert and his men were compelled to increase the number and duration of patrols in order to meet this upsurge.

One such incident occurred in the early hours of the first of December, when Javert was passing by the officers’ café, on his belated way to the mairie. A young freeholder and elector called M. Batamabois, had been foolishly disporting himself with one of the town prostitutes, a disreputable-looking woman with shorn hair and two missing teeth; true to her nature, she had attacked him, and Javert had been compelled to intervene. 

He brought her to the station-house, and under the watchful eyes of the gathered crowd and within the judicial authority given to him, he sentenced her to three months in the Montreuil lock-up for her assault. 

The unfortunate creature, who had remained silent in her defence, gaped now at him. “I can’t go to jail,” she said. “I must pay one hundred francs for the upkeep of my little girl, my Cosette, otherwise the people who are keeping her — Thénardiers, inn-keepers, peasants— will turn her into the street in winter. Have pity on me, good Monsieur l’Inspecteur: I am not a bad woman at heart, it is not cowardliness and gluttony that have made me what I am. I have only sold my body to feed my child, because I could find no other work after I lost my employment, and I was only defending myself when the gentleman and his friends provoked me on the street.”

Javert frowned. It was the same old story, told by a thousand criminals across France; he could not offer her the pity she asked for, for there would be no end to the lies and the crimes. “I can do nothing for you,” he said, and the guards began to take her away, when a familiar voice spoke up from the crowd.

“Inspector Javert, one moment, if you please.”

It was Madeleine, his curly dark head haloed in the station-house firelight. As if he had any power here, he turned to the woman where she stood in the grip of the guards, and said, “It seems as if I know you, Madame.”

“M. le Maire,” the woman scoffed, and spat in his face. “You know me? Why, I worked my fingers to the bone for you for two years before your foreman threw me out, because he desired for free what I now sell on the street. Then I could no longer earn enough, and all this misery followed.”

Madeleine looked as if she had struck him. With one hand he wiped the spittle away and with the other he reached out to her, saying in a deliberate voice, as if he did not wish to weep:-

"I knew nothing about what you have mentioned. I did not know you had left my factory, or that my man had wronged you. Here; I will pay your debts, I will send for your child; you shall live here, or in Paris, or where you please; I will give all the money you require. You shall be honest and happy once more. I declare to you that if all is as you say —and I do not doubt it — you have never ceased to be virtuous and holy in the sight of God."

The wretch gaped at him, and so did Javert; he strode forward and struck aside the woman’s hand as it reached, trembling, out to the mayor’s, exclaiming: “You dare spit on the mayor of this town?”

Madeleine turned to Javert, interposing his broad figure between Javert and the woman, in a movement that filled the inspector with an irrepressible rage.

Madeleine said: “Set this woman at liberty, Inspector. She has done no wrong.”

“Have you taken leave of your senses? She is a common prostitute, she attacked a man in the street, she attacked you —”

Madeleine came close to him, his jaw set in tenacious lines. “Young Bamatabois is a scoundrel; she says he provoked her. And, you heard her: this decent lady was forced into immorality for the sake of her child, because of what I did and then failed to do. I cannot turn away from her now, not can I allow you to imprison her.” 

Javert was almost furious enough to lay hands on the — false, stubborn, lying— mayor. “Do not interfere with me! You have no authority —”

“I have every authority,” Madeleine said, immoveable, “under articles nine, eleven, fifteen, and sixty-six of the code of criminal examination, and I order that this woman shall be set at liberty. Guards, release her.”

Shaking with anger, Javert turned to countermand that order, only for the woman to slump to the ground in a dead faint. Madeleine went to his knees at her side and took the thin hand in his own with tenderness; then he gathered her into his arms.

“She is feverish; she needs a doctor. I will take her to an infirmary.” As Javert stepped forward, the mayor fixed him with a terrible glare that rooted him to the spot. “M. l’Inspecteur, I will speak with you later, but now, you are in my way.”

At length, Javert calmed himself enough to walk to his lodgings, where he passed a sleepless night. The day that followed was even more restless, filled with frustration and anger at Madeleine’s flouting of his, Javert’s, authority, and at Valjean’s open rebellion.

 At last, he came to the decision he had been wrestling with for these long weeks. There was no other solution: it was clear that Jean Valjean was a continued danger to the people of Montreuil, and that he, Javert, must harden his heart to do his duty. 

Chabouillet’s letter in hand, he made his way to the mairie.

Madeleine was not to be found there; nor in the factory; nor in the sitting-room of his home. Javert walked to the mairie, and at its rear he came upon a series of rooms which had been made into a makeshift infirmary, presided over by two sisters of mercy procured from God knew where. The prostitute had been installed there; at her bedside sat Jean Valjean, holding her hand.

At Javert entered the infirmary, the sisters of mercy withdrew; Madeleine rose, making a quietening gesture. “Hush, she has just fallen asleep. She is very sick, Javert, the doctor doesn’t know how much longer she has left.”

“She is dying? A likely story. Yesterday she had the strength to attack an elector and to spit on a mayor.”

Madeleine glared at him. “You don’t know what you’re speaking about. She has been ill for months, plying her trade in this freezing cold. I’ve promised to go to Montfermeil this afternoon to fetch her child to her. I just hope I can return in time.” 

“You cannot leave,” Javert said. His hand was shaking as he handed Madeleine the letter from Paris. There was a great throbbing in his temples; he felt even angrier than he had felt last night, when he had watched a prostitute disrespect Valjean and the mayor defend her against rightful authority.

He watched Madeleine take the paper, and read, and turn as white as the sheets on which the woman lay. “You see,” he said, “your past crimes have found you out, after all. You cannot escape the Law, Jean Valjean. I was a fool to have let you delude me for so long. Now you must come along with me, and face up to your punishment.”

“Yes,” Madeleine said, numbly. “That is to say — the Bishop forgave me and set me on this path; I did take money from that child, in a fever: though I sought to return it, and ever since then I have sought to give money to all children in need. But — you are right, there is no excuse — here is a man who will be sentenced for my crimes — of course, this cannot be allowed to happen.” He swallowed. “I must go to Arras, to answer in his stead.”

Javert took a step backwards. He had expected Madeleine to remonstrate with him; to argue his case regarding the unfairness of the Law, and the proportionality of punishment, to assert that criminals could be rehabilitated, that he himself was no danger to society. Now Valjean’s capitulation took the wind from his sails. His heart heaved under his chest as he said, “You should have permitted me to collar you long before this. Then I could have vouched for you before the magistrates of Arras.”

Valjean raised his troubled brow to the light. “It wouldn’t have succeeded, Javert. My criminality would taint any master by association, and I would not have you brought down together with me. No one else should be harmed as a result of my actions—” He looked at the woman’s pale face on the pillows below, swallowing, and Javert’s hands balled into fists of rage. 

“You’re a criminal, you know no better. I should have collared you when I had the chance, whether you willed it or no.”

Valjean’s face went even whiter, and he took a step forward, so he was chest to chest with Javert. He thrust the paper into Javert’s chest. “I would never have allowed it,” he said, dangerously.

“You would not have had a choice,” Javert hissed. “You said you belonged to me. Unless that, too, was a lie?”

Very quietly, Valjean replied: “Perhaps the lie was in that you could see past the criminal to the man. I could not believe your cruelty to this poor woman: that you only saw the crime she committed, and ignored the terrible wrongs done to her, including by me.” 

“The Law sees her as a criminal. As it sees you, Jean Valjean, you and your nineteen years in the bagne. I wish I had been clear-eyed enough to see it for myself before. The time we had together deluded me, tricked me, foxed me — as the Law said it would. To think—I was on the precipice of not turning you in! Of offering you your liberty, and worse —” Javert could not finish, his throat closing in on itself. 

When he could speak again, he said, harshly, “No more. You are a recidivist, and must answer for your crimes. You will not ride to Montfermeil tonight; instead, you will come with me to the station-house, and tomorrow we will ride for the departmental prison in Arras.”

“It cannot be so,” Valjean said. His jaw jutted stubbornly in the low light of the infirmary. “Don’t mistake me; I am willing to stand responsible for my crimes. But this letter says the Court in Arras is not yet in session. Let me go to Montfermeil, and fetch Fantine’s child; let me restore Cosette to her mother, and fulfil a dying woman’s wish. Give me three days to rescue the girl, and then I will relinquish myself to the Law.”

"You must be making sport of me," cried Javert, disbelievingly. "You’re asking me for three days, in which to run away? Do you mean to make me extend you liberties even now, to make even more of a fool of me than you already have? All for the sake of that creature's child?"

In that moment, a thin, trembling voice issued from the bed. It was Fantine; she sat up with burning eyes, her face an inhuman white.

"My child!" she cried, "she is not here, then? Answer me, sister; where is Cosette? I want my child! Monsieur Madeleine! Monsieur le Maire!"

This was beyond enduring. Javert seized hold of Valjean’s collar. “You see! This is what happens when convicts are magistrates, and where low women are countesses. I tell you that there is no Monsieur Madeleine and that there is no Monsieur le Maire. There is only a thief, a brigand, a convict named Jean Valjean!"

Fantine raised herself in bed, supporting herself on her stiffened arms and on both hands: she gazed at Jean Valjean, she gazed at Javert, she opened her mouth as though to speak. A rattle proceeded from the depths of her throat; she stretched out her arms in her agony — then she suddenly fell back on her pillow.

Her head struck the head-board of the bed and fell forwards on her breast; her mouth gaped, and her staring eyes were sightless.

Her sudden death left the room in silence for long moments. Then Jean Valjean shook himself free of Javert’s detaining grasp, and knelt before Fantine’s bed. He took Fantine's head in both his hands, and arranged it on the pillow as a mother might have done for her child; gently, he re-tied the string of her chemise. That done, he closed her eyes.

Raising his head, he said to Javert: "You have murdered this woman."

There was outright mutiny in his gaze; there was a complete and terrible rupture; there was nothing but dishonesty, duplicity, deception. Javert could not imagine he had never seen it before, that he had been the dupe for so long, in thrall to this most dangerous of criminals.

"Let's have an end of this!" he shouted in a fury; "I am not here to listen to argument. You are mine, and there’s nothing else for it!"

In the corner of the room stood an old iron bedstead. Jean Valjean wrenched off the head-piece, grasped the principal rod like a bludgeon, and approached Javert. He said, in a voice that was barely audible, "I cannot belong to someone who cannot see my worth, or the worth of others, to someone who is not himself worthy."

Javert felt his heart crack from the top to the bottom. Seized by this extremity, he cried out, “You have no worth, you are a liar and a cheat and I should never have believed in you —” and he drew his own weapon and launched himself hopelessly at Valjean —

— who turned to him with impossible speed, raising his arm, and then everything went hot and dark.

When Javert eventually returned to himself, his head was throbbing as if someone had tried their level best to knock it from his shoulders. Someone had put him into the spare bed. The room was dark; night had fallen over Montreuil, and the sisters were saying prayers and lighting candles over Fantine’s body.

Javert hauled himself into a sitting position. “Where is Mayor Madeleine?” he managed to croak out.

“Shhh! Show some respect for the dead,” admonished the younger of the nuns, while the older fixed him with a steely gaze and murmured, “He is gone, Monsieur, beyond your ability to follow.”

Javert subsided into pillows. It was now too late to set off on horseback; besides, Valjean would have already had an unsurmountable head start. He needed to send a message to M. Chabouillet and to hire a carriage bound for Arras, but he would not get there ahead of Valjean, assuming the man was heading in that direction at all. Perhaps Valjean would flee to Paris, where he could conceal himself amid a million souls; perhaps he was committed to this hare-brained notion of rescuing the prostitute’s child — from Montfermeil, as he had mentioned. Javert would leave no stone unturned; he would follow; he would not rest until Valjean was found.


You told me you were mine, and that was a lie.


He had trusted this convict; had let lust cloud his judgment. His heart a wasteland, Javert swore he would not make the same mistake again.







Part 1.3 — Rue Plumet



This was not a promise which Javert has managed to keep; or, more accurately, he only managed to keep it while remaining sorely mistaken. For ten years he hunted Valjean relentlessly, seeking to bring him to justice, all the while convinced Valjean would always be a criminal, always a danger to society and to himself. 

And then Valjean conclusively proved him wrong, by saving Javert’s life where a criminal would have every reason to let him die. Javert has been forced by this first-hand evidence to acknowledge Valjean’s fundamental decency: that he has sought to do no harm, has sought to return largesse to society as best he could, and has, over the years, kept himself impossibly chaste. Given that truth, the inescapable conclusion must be that the Ancien Régime itself is false, and criminals are capable of redemption, and that the punishment meted out to them has been unfair and unjust.

Living in Valjean’s house has taught Javert that, in contrast, he has himself been guilty of injustice. He acted with pride and cruelty to Fantine, and to Cosette, and to Valjean himself; he, Javert, has not stinted from indulging himself in the decade since Montreuil, with furtive touches and dreams of lasciviousness that embodied sheer corruption. He is not worthy to collar anyone, least of all this good man, Jean Valjean, who has been so terribly wronged.

Despite everything, Javert knows he yearns towards Valjean; he craves to be in his presence; and this is why he cannot bring himself to leave the house at Rue Plumet.

If he has any ounce of honour left within him, Javert would refuse Valjean’s rescue and Valjean’s freedom; he would leave Valjean’s roof, and allow the Seine to take him. It would be a just gesture, worthy of the lofty ideals of justice and discipline and self-discipline Javert once aspired to. 

But Javert is old, and is no longer the fearless young guard he used to be, and he has nothing left in his life but to sit in an armchair that does not belong to him and wait for Valjean to return home.


"I have been chaste for ten years since Montreuil," Valjean protests. It is the truth. He wants to tell Javert he has learned at last how dangerous a criminal’s unfettered lusts can be, has learned first-hand the need for abstinence, that no citizen has any reason to be afraid of sexual deviance on his account. "I promise you, I am no danger to anyone."

“You pretend,” Javert mutters, “you have always pretended, for all the good it will do you. You let me have you in Montreuil, you said you were mine, but all these things were false.”




Part 2.1 — Rue Plumet; November, 1832



The man whom no one else knows as Jean Valjean has a Javert in his house for the first time since Montreuil. 

Javert is an inspector no longer, of course, but he is still every ounce as difficult and intransigent as he was ten years ago. Valjean still sees glimpses of that confident, self-assured policeman, tall and lantern-jawed, in the prime of his life, in this older figure — still tall, still lantern-jawed, still strong, despite his bad leg — who sits in his armchair in the evenings and faces off against him, like a stranger and not someone whom he has known for more than half of his life. 

When Javert rails against the newspapers of the day — Le Constitutionnel’s advocacy for Bonapartists, La Tribune’s relentless criticism of Louis-Philippe’s government — Valjean can almost believe that time has stood still: that this is the same principled man who, as a young guard in Toulon, had treated him with kindness, who had the decency not to force himself on the criminals who could not refuse. Who in Montreuil withheld from arresting him because he believed Valjean capable of good, who seemed to value Valjean for his strength rather than his submission; who embraced Valjean fiercely, as if seeking to redress the time lost during those long prison years, and who held him afterwards with something that, in another man, might have been gentleness. 

Then, Valjean almost let himself believe the inspector regarded him as more than a criminal, almost let himself believe the man was worthy of his submission. Had almost allowed Javert to collar him. He now knows how wrong he was. Javert had not changed after all; confronted by Fantine, and evidence of Valjean’s complicity, he reverted to type — that rigid servant of oppressive laws. For Fantine’s sake, for Cosette, for Valjean himself, Valjean was compelled to flee Montreuil, and to leave Javert, in an act which Javert undoubtedly saw as betrayal.

How does Javert feel now? He doesn’t say: they are not men who discuss their emotions openly. 

Nevertheless, Valjean is aware of the change that has taken place within Javert, even if Javert himself is reluctant to acknowledge it. Javert might tell himself that he has pursued Valjean for ten years to bring him to justice, but that is not the whole story. Further, there can only be one reason why Javert would have attempted to end his life at the Seine after Valjean had saved it, why Javert would have agreed not to make the attempt again: out of regard for Valjean himself.

At least, Valjean hopes that is the reason. He is aware of his own predilection to think kindly of Javert; that it is a predilection born out of years of loneliness and abuse in the bagne of Toulon, where he became attached toward the one guard out of a hundred who treated him as a human being and not a beast with no rights to his sexuality. 

He knows he cannot trust this attachment, as much as he cannot suppress it, now as well as then. Knew he could not trust Javert, in Toulon or in Montreuil; knew that he must constantly put Javert to the test — and that night of the first Saint-Valentin lottery, when Javert passed that first test, Valjean went to his knees in the station-house before Javert, giving vent at last to nineteen years of longing. 

“You are mine,” Javert had said, when they had finally come together in Madeleine’s bed in Montreuil, greedy mouth against Madeleine’s bare skin; “You belong to me.”

And Valjean, giddy with happiness, had found himself saying, “Yes. Yes, I do”.

That year and a half of treacherous contentment had almost destroyed him — for he was betrayed by Javert, as much as Javert also considered himself betrayed. Perhaps Javert was not to blame: Valjean ought to have known Javert would be unequal to such drastic demands; it was naïve of him to expect that domesticity could overcome a lifetime of strict adherence to the Law. 

Valjean knows he cannot afford to make the same mistake again. 

It is true that Javert seems now to be a changed man. Although he complains about the newspapers and the politics of the day, he is uncharacteristically reticent on the topic of the failed summer insurrection, of those poor doomed boys who had taken Javert prisoner and who died at the barricades on the Rue de la Chanvrerie; on the subject of Marius Pontmercy, the one rebel who lived, whom Javert himself helped rescue at Valjean’s behest, who was conspicuously absent from the sedition trials in October of other insurrectionists from the barricades at Saint-Merry. Almost, his glowering silence on these matters might have signalled a sympathy, an unspoken regret, as harboured by someone who had revised his previously intransigent attitude toward fairness and justice. 

Valjean wants to believe that Javert has had a real change of heart; that he has finally learned to see Valjean as more than just a criminal, as a living, feeling human deserving of affection and trust. But Valjean knows this is not realistic, because he is not certain if he can bring himself to truly trust Javert in his turn. The Almighty knows how difficult a journey it has been for Valjean to learn to trust in himself.







Part 2.2 — Digne, 1815; Paris, 1830



Valjean’s journey to himself had started with the Almighty. God had been so completely absent in Toulon that it was as if He did not exist; if He did, He had turned His face away from those poor benighted souls imprisoned in the galleys.

Some of those souls allowed themselves to be collared exclusively; the rest were forced to surrender their bodies to Toulon’s punishment. Insubordination, self-pleasure, or worse, physical contact between prisoners both solicited or unsolicited — any sign that a convict's body belonged to anyone other than the sovereign authority of Toulon — were all crimes which could be dealt with by sexual discipline as well as beatings. On four occasions Valjean had tried to escape from Toulon, and for daring to flee from the bagne's rightful ownership, he had been stripped, and placed in the public stocks in the yard, and all the guards and adjutant-guards had taken their turns to use his mouth and his body as they saw fit. 

Only Javert had withheld himself; had treated him decently; had hauled up one of the other guards who had meted out unsanctioned harm. Almost, Valjean might have agreed to wear his collar, not just to avoid the abuse, but also because this was the only sanctioned way for prisoners in the bagne to quench the needs of their body. 

In Toulon, Valjean had been a young man, and his body’s desires were loud ones, keeping him warm in winter and scorching him in summer, arousal constantly simmering beneath his skin. He would find his gaze returning to Javert throughout the day, lingering on the young guard’s tall, robust frame, the thrust of his chest and the bulge between his solid thighs, the angles of his blunt, uncomely face. He would go to sleep, pressed uncomfortably between his fellow prisoners in the salle, to the image of Javert’s serious green eyes, would dream of Javert’s fingers and the avid press of his prick against Valjean’s own, and wake to find he’d climaxed in the night without even a hand to himself. As the months and years passed, Valjean thought he might have to beg for Javert to collar him lest he drive himself mad with wanting. 

It seemed as if Javert might also have been willing. He’d spoken of his hopes of promotion on that stifling August day upon Toulon’s sea-wall, standing close enough to smell the perspiration that curled off Valjean’s skin, and then he’d asked: "Would you do what I asked when that day comes?"

"Ask me then, and you'll see," Valjean said, holding his own loneliness and longing in check.

But Javert never asked, and then in the winter of 1812 came envoys from the Ministry of Justice and Marine with orders from Napoléon to put an end to the sexual discipline permitted by the Ancien Regime, including the bourgeois practice of collaring, which was to have no place in the modern republic. The bagne’s commissioner was removed, the adjudants-chef chastised, all their submissives were uncollared and released back into the prison population. Javert, the most senior guard in Toulon who had not mastered a submissive, was invited to accompany the envoys when they returned to Paris, to take up a position with the Prefecture of Police.

Valjean did not attempt to escape again. In 1815, he was finally released into the world with his yellow passport: a parolee, with his sexual autonomy restored to him on a provisional basis, at risk of surrendering the same on the slightest instance of re-offending.

On the day of his liberation, Valjean came upon an orange-flower distillery in Grasse where some men engaged in unloading bales. He offered his services, and they were accepted. He was intelligent, robust, dextrous; he did his best; the master seemed pleased. But while he was at work, a gendarme passed, observed him, and demanded his papers. It was necessary to show him the yellow passport. At the end of the day, when Valjean presented himself to the owner of the distillery to be paid, the owner handed him fifteen sous, half the original amount promised. 

“That’s coin enough for an ex-con,” the owner had said, grimly. 

Valjean had protested: “But this is hardly enough for a bed for the night!”

One of his fellow labourers piped up, “Why would an ex-con need a bed to himself?”, and another added, sniggering, “You could always bunk down with me, big man, it’d be exactly like you’re used to in Toulon.” It was only the fear of returning to prison that stopped Valjean from striking them down where they stood.

Liberation from prison was very far from true freedom. In the days and weeks following Valjean’s release, with winter descending quickly over the south-east of France, he discovered the ignominy of his yellow passport and his prison scars. Paid work was scarce, and scarcer still, innkeepers that would permit an ex-convict to stop under their roof; he ate castoffs and half-meals, slept in doorways and on benches and in the fields. Hungry and freezing cold, filled with hate for the half-independence that had been loaned out to him, he had been at the end of his tether when he encountered Bishop Myriel of Digne.

When that good man met Valjean on the doorstep of the small house beside Digne’s cathedral, he did not turn the hulking ex-convict away. He peered at the papers which Valjean thrust under his nose, then welcomed the starving supplicant to his modest table and invited him to eat his fill. Afterwards, he led Valjean to a feather bed in an alcove that adjoined his own bedchamber and assured he would rest there unmolested. 

Valjean had been astounded by such a reception. “Stop, Monsieur,” he stammered. “You are so good that I no longer know what has happened to me. Have you really reflected well? How do you know I am not a deviant who would mean you harm?”

The Bishop looked up at him, and said, gently, “I know God has decreed you to be my brother, and you deserve to be treated as such. Whether you are a deviant or no, whether you mean me harm, is entirely up to you. I am in your hands, as I am in God’s.” 

Of course, Valjean had been unable to shoulder the tremendous burden of such freedom, to trust in the giddy promise of God’s esteem. Just as any hardened criminal would, he roused himself in the middle of the night, looted the cathedral of all its sanctified silver, and fled. 

When the gendarmes caught up with him and his plunder, he lied and said the silver had been a gift. In his mind was the terrible conviction that the Almighty would once again turn from him in disgust, that he would once more be returned to the bagne, and forever stripped of whatever dignity and worth he had left. 

Again, the Bishop, rousted from his bed to identify the silver as well as the thief in question, proved to be an astonishment. “Ah! here you are!” he exclaimed, looking at Jean Valjean. “I am glad to see you. Well, but how is this? I gave you the candlesticks too, which are also made of silver. Why did you not carry them away with your forks and spoons? Take them now with my blessing.”

Jean Valjean felt his soul crack as if into two broken halves. He heard the gendarmes speaking to the Bishop, and then his shackles were removed and he was set free. He could not help but recoil, ready as he had been moments before to throw himself from the precipice of his very life. 

“How can this be?” he said, in an almost inarticulate voice, as though he were talking in his sleep. “Monsieur—no, Monseigneur Bishop: you don’t understand. I am a dangerous cr— I am a danger to everyone, including to myself. Surely you cannot afford to just let me go.”

The gendarmes had been given leave to depart; Valjean was alone with the Bishop in the walled grounds of the cathedral, the morning breaking around them. 

“There is no limit to what God can afford,” the Bishop said. “It pleases Him to make a gift to you of the silver which you stretched out your hand to steal.”

Valjean found himself trembling in every limb. He took the precious candlesticks proffered by the Bishop, and, kneeling, set them down on the grass, and then with shaking fingers he began to untie the strings of his smock. 

This was the lesson he had learned from nineteen years in Toulon: there was always a punishment for sins, there was always a price for mercy, and the coin to which he was most accustomed was that meted out in stripes of a whip, and in the sexual use of his body.

“Then take your recompense, Monseigneur. Let it not be said that this ex-criminal does not pay his dues.” 

The Bishop bent his old joints to kneel, stiffly, beside Valjean. “My poor boy,” he said, placing his fingers over Valjean’s, forestalling his attempt to disrobe. “This is not a price that should be required of any one, and it is not the price which God requires of you.” 

“I don’t understand,” Valjean managed, his head swimming with the nearness of his escape, with this sudden, terrifying freedom. “You truly don’t desire —? Then, what else do you—?”

“What I desire is this.” The Bishop’s eyes shone steadily in the dawn light. “Jean Valjean, my brother, you are no longer to belong to evil, but to good. This silver has bought your soul instead of your body; I claim that soul from all selfish impulses and the spirit of darkness, and I give it to God.”

“What good is my soul to anyone?” Jean Valjean asked, blindly, almost on the point of fainting. His one anchor in the maelstrom was this seemingly frail old man, who was holding him up with the impossible, towering strength of the Almighty.

That good man said, with infinite compassion: “Your soul is infinitely precious to God, as is your body, despite everything you have done, everything that was done to you. Never forget: now, your soul belongs to God, and your body to yourself.” 

He clasped Valjean’s hands, and smiled like daybreak. “Now, put your clothes on, and go in peace.” 

 

*

 

It had been a difficult journey for Jean Valjean, to reclaim his body from the bagne and to dedicate his soul to God; to believe that both could serve the Almighty’s purpose, to understand that both were precious in God’s sight—as well as to the one man Valjean so desperately wanted to trust.

It had been a difficult journey, and one which Valjean might almost have been tempted to call to an end when he realised the disaster he and Javert had made of their time together in Montreuil. He would indeed have been tempted if not for his promise to Fantine, and if not for Cosette, who had no one else, and who needed him.

Once he had put off the mayor’s scarf of office, and taken the humble name of Ultime Fauchelevent, Valjean had come to understand the extent of Madeleine’s error. Madeleine had been blind to his own flaws: he had facilitated Fantine’s abuse under his own roof; he had let himself be subordinated to a man who could not yet see his way past the abusive regime which he served. He had let himself become so consumed by lust and sexual happiness that he’d let his guard down, had confessed, I belong to you, had almost let the man collar him. He had forgotten his vow to the Bishop that his soul would belong to no one but God, and his body to no one but himself. 

As Fauchelevent, Valjean knew he’d been misguided; knew that allowing Javert to collar him in Montreuil would have broken his vow to the Bishop, would have betrayed his duty to Fantine, would have left Cosette in the hands of monsters. And it would have destroyed Valjean himself.

On the run from justice, from Javert, a little girl depending on him utterly, Valjean knew he could not make the same mistake. He needed to marshal all his strength and resources to keep Cosette safe. No one had ever trusted him so completely, and one day Valjean was surprised to discover that the broken pieces of himself had been stitched together by her small hands. 

That day came after they’d fled to the convent of the Perpetual Adoration in Petit-Picpus in Paris. There, closeted amongst the good sisters of the Bernardines, tending to their orchard and their vegetable gardens, with Cosette safe and cared for amongst the other little girls at the convent school, Valjean learned to still his unquiet spirit, and his even more unruly flesh, and finally came to understand the blessed state of chastity.

This was a state achieved by the nuns with whom he lived: unblemished and pure, married body and soul to God. Cosette would say, in all her innocence, “Papa, why do the good sisters not marry?” and Valjean would say, as he had heard the nuns say, “Because they are married to God.”

This explanation satisfied the little girl for a space, until one day she asked: “And how about you, Papa? Are you also married to God?”

Valjean hesitated. He had spoken about Fantine to Cosette, of course, although as Cosette grew older, he found himself more and more reluctant to do so, lest she ask more questions about her unfortunate mother than Valjean could bring himself to answer. Undoubtedly, she was aware that he had not been married to Fantine; he didn’t know how she had come to understand that he had never been married at all.

“I am married to no one, child.”

“But why not? Are you also in love with God, like Sister Marie-Thérèse?”

The name conjured the impression of a still-young nun with eyes that matched her habit; hastily, Valjean thrust the image away. “No, dearest. We all should love the Almighty, but I’m not sure we ought to be in love with him. After all, God’s love is not the same kind of love as humans have for each other.” She wrinkled her little nose, and Valjean added, helplessly, “One day you’ll understand.”

But how could she truly understand, though, when the entire mystery of love and being in love was something a grown man like Valjean could barely fathom? Valjean had always felt unequal to the task of raising her; no more so than in this moment.

Cosette continued to frown, giving her adopted father a glimpse of what she would look like when she was a young woman, with an independent mind and will, with hopes and dreams of love that Valjean could not begin himself to imagine. Then she shrugged her shoulders, and was a girl again. 

“Do you love me, though?”

“With all my heart,” Valjean answered gladly. Certainly, her child’s faith in him had taught him something of God’s boundless, selfless love, which was so different from the greedy desires and dominance he had learned within Toulon’s twisted gates and in Montreuil with Javert. What he did not say, of course, was, that one day his love would not be enough.

He told himself that day was far off: until then, the peace of his surroundings enfolded him — the hushed cloister, the fragrant, flowering garden, the goodness and simplicity of the women who served and the pupils who studied. Little by little, his soul and body became filled with the sanctity of the cloister, with the perfume of the garden, with the purity of the nuns and these children precious to God. 

There had been two houses of God which had received him in succession at the two critical junctures of his life: the first, when all doors were closed and when human society rejected him; the second, at a moment when human society had again set out in pursuit of him, and the galleys beckoned. Then, as before, his body would have been surrendered once again to torment, and his soul to utter despair.

In Petit-Picpus, as in Digne, God had preserved him. His heart melted in gratitude, and he resolved to keep his soul and body inviolate, and for God and himself.

If there were the occasional nights when he still dreamed of Javert, of those large hands and that brutish, demanding body, taking casual command of him and possessing him as utterly as any collared submissive could wish — well, he was sorely aware of his own weakness. There was no shame in needing to be further shriven of his sins. At least in his small, solitary chamber, there were no others to bear witness when he spilled over himself, or to watch him take to his knees on the cold stone floor to pray for forgiveness until the sun finally came up.







Part 2.3 — Rue Plumet; December, 1832



Valjean may have left the cloister of the Bernadines of Perpetual Adoration in Petit-Picpus, but it has not left him. 

Nine years spent on his knees in a very different way to the nineteen previous years in Toulon; nine years, under God's watchful eye, where no hand touched him with desire, not even his own, where he came to realise that the ancient laws prohibiting criminals from taking their pleasure were justifiable for someone like him. In prayer within the quiet walls of Petit-Picpus, he learned to be chaste in body as well as in spirit, learned that chastity could be its own reward. 

These long years of self-mastery have engendered in him an iron-willed control of which another man might be deservedly proud; to Valjean, this is another example of how, with God’s grace, a criminal’s dangerous sexual impulses could be redeemed.

Living in the old house in Rue Plumet, the habit of chastity has not deserted him; but matters have become more difficult now he has his old inspector living under that roof with him. Rescued from the barricades, rescued from the Seine, Javert required rescue from himself as well, and Valjean knew he was called upon to perform that service. He gave the broken man a place in Cosette’s old room and, just as Cosette spent her own days at the bedside of the young revolutionary whom Valjean had pulled through the sewers, he found himself nursing France’s most reluctant patient back to health. 

When the inspector’s leg finally healed enough for the man to leave the house, Valjean expected him to resume his old position with the police, and even to once again seek out Valjean’s arrest. Instead, Javert returned that evening, with the news that he had received a medical discharge from his duties and been given a desk job with the police archives. He had a suitcase with him, and when Valjean enquired after it, he at last confessed that the lease of his rooms near the Rue de Pontoise station-house had been terminated in his long convalescence. 

Valjean felt the touch of the Bishop’s hand on his shoulder: Never forget. Thus prompted, he murmured, “Then you should stop here for a while, until you find somewhere else to stay.”

Javert scowled terribly. “How can I? I have imposed on you enough. The p— that is, Fantine’s child, your daughter—she lives in your other household at Rue l’Ouest, and you have neglected your duties to her while remaining here to care for me; it will not do.”

“Cosette is doing well enough at Rue l’Ouest without me; Toussaint is there with her. Also, she is after all occupied with young Marius Pontmercy… It seems they might plan to marry when he is returned to health.” Valjean had to swallow; the thought of losing his beloved child was an impenetrable darkness in a swiftly-approaching future. 

“This is the boy from the Rue de la Chanvrerie barricades, is it not?” Javert’s scowl deepened, but he did not demand Marius’ arrest, either. “Well, if your daughter is foolhardy enough to marry him, I suppose you might be in need of an additional pair of hands around this place. Until I find another more suitable lodging, of course.”

“Of course,” Valjean said, and it seemed for one moment that a ray of brightness glimmered over the future, though one would not ordinarily be expected to welcome the prospect of one’s old master and old enemy coming to live with one again after all this time. 

And, as previously noted, Javert has for the most part not been a difficult house guest. He limped off to work in the mornings when Valjean himself left for Rue l’Ouest, returning in the evenings; he helped Valjean around the house and the garden. As winter arrived, he turned the drawing-room that adjoined Cosette’s old room into a study in which he catalogued books and newspapers according to the civic issues of the day, his opinions of which he did not stint to vouchsafe to Valjean. To his surprise, Valjean found himself spending more and more his evenings in the drawing-room, with Javert expostulating over the recent public health crisis or fresh allegations of corruption in the Prefecture or the even more scandalous incompetence amongst the clerks in the police archives, and only returning to his own room at the end of the back courtyard when the hour was late.

One evening Javert followed him to that small lodge, intent on finishing the point he was making about Paris’ recent influenza outbreak, and sat in one of the two straw chairs across from the white wood table for half-an-hour, before rubbing his bad leg and saying, abruptly, “Why is it so blasted cold in here?”

Valjean glanced at the grate. For Cosette’s sake, he agreed to keep the fire burning, but now that she was no longer in residence, he had let his old ways lapse: black bread on the table, the rough blanket and thin mattress on the folding-bed, no fire in the hearth.

“I don’t feel the cold,” he hazarded.

Javert scowled in his habitual fashion, which was the only warning Valjean received before the man lunged across the white wood table and seized hold of his hand. It was only when Valjean experienced the heat of Javert’s fingers that he realised he was, in fact, cold.

“Ridiculous. You see how cold you are, you have never taken care of yourself,” he huffed, in the fond, exasperated, proprietorial manner he’d had in Montreuil, and Valjean found himself smiling before he could stop himself. Then a shadow passed across Javert’s face, and he snatched his hand away, muttering, as if to himself, “Though you must have learned to endure the cold; as you endured so many things when in hiding. One more matter for which I must bear responsibility.”

There was unmistakable regret in Javert’s voice; Valjean recognised the deep note of guilt, because he had all too often heard it in his own.

“Javert—” He reached out, but it was too late; Javert had fled.

Valjean wondered if this was a prelude to Javert finally deciding to leave his house for good, but the former inspector surprised him. The next evening, he marched into the lodge with a bucket of coal and kindling, and, kneeling stiffly before the grate, coaxed it into flame. 

At length he sat back and said, triumphantly, “Let me at least make this one small redress: you will not go cold in here, Jean Valjean, not if I can help it.”

It was not a propitious choice of words. Valjean found himself flushing scarlet, for his hard-won chastity had lately been put to the test. 

Over the autumn, Valjean has found himself rousing involuntarily as he did when he was a much younger man, when he was the robust mayor in his prime in Montreuil, who had a companion to warm his bed at night. Now the winter’s arrival seems to have fanned that arousal into a raging flame. He has been denying himself stoutly, as he has for the last nine years, but such self-denial has been substantially less successful with Javert’s vigorous presence in close proximity: sitting at his table, reading to him, conversing with him, close enough for contact but forbearing from touching, save for the occasional brush of skin as bowls and books are passed along, and that night when Javert seized hold of his hand.

In the winter, Valjean discovers that Javert has invaded his sleep. Valjean dreams of the dour inspector as he once was, hearty and unapologetic and entirely the master of himself, holding him down and taking what was once his. Valjean wakes to discover he has reached his climax without touching himself, as he used to once upon a time.

Finally the night comes when he can no longer stand it. He has been on edge all evening, listening to Javert’s account of the day’s filing challenges and the letter he wrote to La Tribune about the urban traffic in the Place Saint Michel, watching the drum of his thick fingers on the dining-room table, the purse of his lips around the rim of his wineglass. When Valjean finally escapes to his room and performs his ablutions in a basin of freezing water, he cannot help but notice that he is infernally roused, that his member, so long neglected, usually so obedient, is standing to full-mast. 

He gets into bed and blows out the candle; his arousal does not abate. A devil seizes him. Before he can question that old, corrupt instinct, he slides his hand under his nightshirt and takes hold of his erect prick.

He has not laid a hand on himself for years, and it is treacherously good. A groan escapes his lips; the sharp, agonising pleasure threatens to utterly unman him. He strokes himself again, and in an instant he is teetering upon the edge of the abyss, in danger of falling into the endless night.

He groans again, and just as he is about to tilt helplessly over into madness, somehow he manages to wrest hold of himself once again; somehow, he manages to prevail — he is no longer just a common criminal, but a man able to withstand his own corrupt nature —he prevails, as fortitude prevails over flesh, as the mind prevails over the body, as soul prevails over sin.

The sweet pleasure of self-denial pierces him, as sharp as the forbidden pleasure of release.

He takes his hand away, shaking from hand to foot, which is when he discovers he is not alone in the room.

He sits up in bed to see Javert in the doorway, the candle-flame wavering in his unsteady grasp. The former inspector’s eyes are wild and glassy, reflecting the glow from the nearby grate, his mouth fallen open in a caricature of surprise. In his other hand he is clutching a pamphlet of some kind.

“Javert,” Valjean chokes out; his throat is so dry he can barely speak. “What are you —?”

What are you doing here, in my bedroom, he means to say, though Javert’s mission is plain enough: he has come here to discuss his reading with Valjean, despite the lateness of the hour, for they have long stopped standing on propriety with each other.

Javert does not give Valjean the opportunity to finish. He puts the candle down, puts the pamphlet down, takes his coat from his shoulders, and kneels in nightshirt and unlaced boots before Valjean’s bed. 

“What are you doing,” Valjean manages; his near-miss has turned him slow and stupid, the lust still clogging his throat makes it difficult to speak. Javert’s brutish body is outlined in the firelight, the thick jut of him tenting the fabric of his smock, his desire on blatant display. 

“What does it look like I’m doing? You are the most worthy man I know. It’s wrong for you to withhold yourself as if you were still a criminal. You deserve…” Javert has to swallow; his large hands come up to grip the sides of the camp-bed on which Valjean still reclines. “You deserve to have someone to discipline. And I don’t; I deserve punishment.”

Valjean battles away the heat surging through his veins. The sight of Javert on his knees is filling him with equal parts of arousal and aversion. He leans forward to take Javert urgently by the shoulders. “Please, get up. I don’t deserve your submission; I don’t desire your submission.” 

He is trying to raise Javert to his feet, but Javert is resisting, fighting to remain on his knees on the floor before Valjean. He protests: “But I desire to give it to you. I’m filled to the brim with corruption. I’ve no right to discipline anyone, and yet I’m choking with it, I can barely control myself. I need you to take all of it away for me. I’m yours, Valjean.” 

In his struggle to keep his place, somehow his hands have relocated from the bedframe to Valjean’s thighs, the nightshirt bunching beneath his fingers. They grapple urgently, a tangle of bedclothes and bared limbs, and as Valjean tries to rise for greater leverage, Javert buries his face in Valjean’s lap and takes Valjean into his mouth.

An electric shock jolts through the both of them. Valjean groans out loud as Javert swallows him down; he is only moments away from coming utterly undone. Seized with frustration and fury, he pulls Javert off him and hurls him to the ground, and then collapses back onto the mattress.

Javert hauls himself up on his elbows, half-naked in the firelight. Panting, trembling, they both stare warily at each other, the narrow space between them a vast, yawning gulf which neither knows how to breach.

Valjean says, his voice shaking, “I can’t. I will never master another person. I don’t wish to punish you, or to possess you. You belong to yourself, and to God, not to me.”

Javert is silent for a long, terrible instant, then he starts to lace his boots, muttering, “No, it’s perfectly simple. How could anyone want this? How could someone like you possibly want this?”

Valjean cannot understand it; surely Javert must see his corruption, his failures, his years of falseness and betrayal? “It’s not like that,” he insists, but Javert cannot hear him, clearly enveloped in his own failures and remorse.

As he leaves, Valjean is struck by how Javert’s offer mirrored his own offer of himself to the Bishop all those years ago. But where the Bishop met Valjean’s offer with selflessness and infinite compassion, Valjean has been sorely tempted, and in his own self-disgust he cruelly struck out at the poor supplicant instead.

Valjean passes an unsteady hand over his brow. He knows how wrong he was to have submitted to Javert in Montreuil. That allowing Javert to collar him all those years ago would have been even worse, and destroyed Javert as well as himself.

Your soul and not your body was bought for God, and is worthy. He needs to convince Javert of this; in the same way as he still needs to convince himself.


"Forgive me," he tells the man he has wronged, who has wronged him in turn. He is bound to Javert; he has been bound to Javert since Toulon, since Montreuil — but there are others who have a prior claim upon him: Myriel; Fantine; his beloved Cosette, who has no one else to defend her. As long as he is needed, he cannot bend his head to Javert in the manner the ancient Régime dictates.

He gathers his exhausted body to take flight. Before he turns and makes for the nearest line of trees, he takes in this last image: Javert in the moonlight, kneeling, as if their roles are reversed — as if Javert were the fugitive before the Law, a prisoner submitting to the rightful collar of his master.




Part 3.1 — Rue Plumet; February, 1833


Javert has been unable to keep abreast of all of Mlle. Fauchelevent's various to-ings and fro-ings, but he cannot not help but register the fact of her growing attachment to the Pontmercy boy—who has apparently finally made a recovery from injuries suffered on the Chanvrerie barricades— and her estrangement from Valjean’s household. It has been many Sundays since she and Toussaint accompanied them to mass, preferring to attend at Église Saint Paul-Saint Louis, the Gillenormand family church. It seems M. Gillenormand, the grandfather, has even suggested she move into the residence at No. 6 Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire before the wedding in February. 

Javert may no longer be a policeman, but the habits of observation and detection have not left him. He has noticed, over the weeks preceding said wedding, Valjean growing more and more listless than one would expect of a man whose child is enter into a state of wedded bliss. He frequently needs to be reminded to consume his dinner, and, where he would once readily engage in conversation, now he lapses into a moody silence, responding to Javert’s increasingly caustic remarks with fewer and fewer words, his eyes returning to the clock on the mantelpiece and on the front door as if waiting for some ill tiding to arrive.

Javert cannot say he understands any of it. True: a free man might make merry when his child is wed into a respectable family, whereas a fugitive in hiding under an alias might well feel concern over signing his false name to marriage papers, for it seems Valjean has not been candid with Cosette regarding his criminal past. But it is more than that: Valjean seems to be so troubled over the impending union that he is withdrawing from engaging with life itself.

After that disastrous encounter two months ago in Valjean’s lodge, where Javert made a desperate, ill-considered offer, only to be rightfully turned away, Javert has been on the cusp of leaving Rue Plumet for good. 

Valjean may have decided to overlook his sins. That man has condemned no one: not royalists who saw fit to punish criminals with sexual slavery; nor the government of the day, which overlooks its citizens’ penury; not even the man arrogant enough to aspire to master him and who has fallen so glaringly short. He might even have forgiven him, in time. But he would be a fool to forget, and Jean Valjean is no fool. 

Instead, it is Javert who has been foolish enough to think that he could ever make sufficient recompense, to think that Valjean could possibly accept his recompense. It is unendurable: he wants Valjean so badly, and Valjean will never reciprocate. If he were a man with any remaining ounce of self-respect, he ought to have left Valjean’s hearth that night, never to darken his door again. 

But he did not leave then, and now there is a concrete reason to stay. As long as he can be of use to Valjean, he will remain at his side. 

On the morning of Cosette’s wedding, Valjean comes out to breakfast wearing his right arm in a sling, and Javert cannot hold back any longer.

“What on earth are you doing?”

Valjean’s pallor is pale; the skin over his cheekbones is stretched paper-thin. Under his formal suit, he holds his powerful body as if it has become brittle. He is unable to meet Javert’s eyes. “I hurt my thumb yesterday in the garden,” he says. “It seems as if I will have trouble using it for a while.” 

The linen bandage on Valjean’s hand is suspiciously pristine. With some difficulty, Javert checks his desire to seize hold of Valjean’s wrist and uncover the lie. He has not touched Valjean in weeks since that time when some devil compelled him to lay hands on Valjean in desire, and Valjean had to hurl him halfway across the room in order to get away.

“You can conceal the truth from your daughter, and new son-in-law, but you’ll find I’m not so easily fooled,” he says, calmly. “When are you finally going to reveal yourself to them?”

Valjean finally looks at Javert. A flush has started to crawl up his neck from beneath his cravat. “You will be pleased to know that I plan to tell Marius the truth, finally — tomorrow, after the ceremony. And, of course, once Marius knows the truth… there will be no need for any more lies, or any more hiding.”

This ought to bring happiness to Valjean’s countenance, or at least relief, but astonishingly Valjean doesn’t look happy or relieved. Instead, his expression is that of a condemned man approaching the scaffold.

Javert stares hard and then all the pieces from the last weeks and months fall into place. 

“You are expecting the family to cast you aside,” he marvels. “For the love of God, why? The boy owes you his life. In fact, he also owes it to me," Javert adds, realising how true that is. He has steered clear of Pontmercy’s way since the boy’s recovery; even though he is no longer an officer of the law, he imagines neither of them would relish being reminded of Pontmercy’s role in the insurgency and the death of his comrades on the barricades.

Valjean’s eyes widen. "He can never know," he says, his uninjured hand clenching involuntarily under the false bandage. “In fact, it’s best for him —for them both —to forget about me.”

Javert frowns; the expression on Valjean’s face is setting his teeth on edge. “You cannot be serious,” he says. “Surely if even someone like me can understand what greater justice requires, if I can stay my hand from arresting you — from arresting him — then your new son-in-law should not turn you away.”

Valjean’s face closes abruptly, a door slamming shut. “I do not wish to discuss this now,” he mutters. “I have to get to the church. We will talk further in the evening, after I return from the wedding feast.”

“Will we? Or will we sit in silence, continuing to ignore those matters we should be discussing?” Javert does not say this out loud, though it is a near thing; he reflects that perhaps he has at last learned circumspection. Instead, he hands Valjean his cup of coffee, and glares pointedly at Valjean until the man drinks it down. 

 

*

 

Cosette invited her father’s new housemate to her wedding party at the church of Saint-Paul and the Gillenormand home, but Javert has declined to attend. It is a Saturday, so Javert has no duties at the archives; after Valjean departs in a hired fiacre, Javert is left to the run of the house. 

On such unusual occasions, Javert would perform the small household errands that Toussaint has not dealt with, and then retire upstairs, but today, after their uncomfortable exchange, Javert finds he cannot sit still; he roams the modest rooms, and, after a desultory luncheon, he puts on his coat and traverses the vast, wintry garden, encumbered with his thoughts.

Now that he is a private citizen, Javert answers to an authority even greater than that of the Law; after his rescue from the barricades and the Seine, his eyes have been opened at last to the truth. He has come to realise that Valjean only sought to evade the Law in order to keep his child safe; now she is grown, and after she assumes the legal mantle of Madame Pontmercy, he is now free to set down his burdens and surrender once again to custody. He has clearly lived with this anticipated future for so long that it has become part of him, even when the path to freedom is before him.

Javert cannot pretend to fully understand it, but he at least now knows something of guilt, and for some reason Valjean is weighed down with more guilt than he knows what to do with. Perhaps he has taken to heart the adage of the Ancien Régime, of which Javert himself was not so long ago convinced: that criminals are all unworthy of freedom, including freedom of body as well as soul; if so, this is yet another thing for which Javert must make restitution.

And what if it were Javert’s custody to which Valjean wished to surrender? This is not something Javert wishes to dwell on for too long, because it is something he himself longs for, with his old instincts toward brutality— and it is the one thing he cannot permit himself. In Montreuil, in Javert’s embrace, Madeleine declared, I am yours; for years afterwards Javert told himself this was the cruellest of all Valjean’s lies — but the truth of the matter is that it was Javert who had lied, who had failed, who was unworthy of the man whom he would have so wrongly collared. 

Thus occupied by these grim reflections, Javert almost misses the mis-aligned railing in the iron fence at the bottom of the garden. Half-hidden beside a stone bench, screened from the eyes of the curious by a plantation of yoke-elms, completely invisible at night, this deformity would be easily overlooked, but in the thin mid-afternoon sunlight, winter denuding the wild overgrowth, it draws the trained eye to suspicious entry.

Someone has been here; someone sufficiently trim and sufficiently determined, who scaled the garden wall and dislodged the bar in the fence, and climbed inside. 

Javert’s old instincts rise to the fore. Once he has taken the measure of the crime scene, he takes himself indoors, eats a meditative supper. After the sun goes down, he dons an additional layer of warm clothing, arms himself with a blanket and his old cudgel, and finds himself a spot out of the wind from which he can keep an eye on the railing.

An hour lengthens to a second and a third; Javert’s bad leg begins to ache, and he is at the point of chalking matters up to the paranoia of an old ex-copper, when he sees a flickering light at the railing. He strains his ears, and hears the unmistakable sound of voices conversing in an undertone that carries across the still night.

“The house looks dark from here. Did Babet say there was a dog?”

“Shhh! No dog, apparently, just that washed-out librarian.”

“There’s no need to be quiet, idiot. Everyone will still be out at the wedding, won’t they?” 

Javert’s blood rises to a roar; the intervening months have not blunted his policeman's instinct after all. Savage excitement seizes him, turning him once more into the man of action. He rises silently to his feet, waits until he can be sure of his bad leg, and steals quietly across the garden.

He takes the two men off-guard, clubbing one man down from behind. The other whirls around, a robust fellow, almost as tall as Javert himself, and — in the moonlight — some twenty years younger. Javert doesn’t hesitate. He strikes the man’s weapon hand, making him drop his bludgeon, then clips him smartly at the top of his head as he’s doubled over. The man staggers to his knees, knife clattering to the ground as well, and Javert grasps the scruff of his cheap coat and hauls him across the frozen yard like a dog. 

Javert has occasion to miss the manacles he once carried, but there is rope in a shed adjoining the pavilion; he uses it to truss up the thug, who is groaning with pain. “You broke my hand, Monsieur! You didn’t need to do that!”

“Oh, really? You and your friend came here with heavy sticks just to say hello to the man who lives here, is that right?”

“No—no, Dépêche and me, we weren’t planning to hurt him. Thénardier said: just break a few windows and rattle the cage when you leave the note — just enough to make him afraid.”

“Thénardier sent you?” Javert has kept abreast of the lamentable group from the ambush at the Gorbeau house, but with Madame Thénardier having died in prison pending the trial, the principal persons having escaped from prison, and Claquesous having disappeared, the assizes were obliged to content themselves with the subordinates who remained. The sentence of hard labor for life was pronounced in absentia against the escapees, and against Thénardier, as the head and leader, had been, through contumacy, a sentence of death. 

“Yes— that is —” The man stops struggling against the ropes and squints at Javert in the moonlight, and stammers, “Holy God, it’s Inspector Javert! We were told you were dead!”

The former inspector’s mouth turns up in amusement, and the man shrinks back. Javert recognises him now: a thief known as Finistère, an occasional member of Patron-Minette.

“Reports of my demise have been exaggerated,” he says. “What was Thénardier after, then?”

There’s little honour among thieves; now he’s captured, Finistère is all too ready to confess. It seems that in the aftermath of the Gorbeau House raid and trials, certain remnants of Patron-Minette have been seeking to avenge themselves on Valjean. The June Rebellion delayed these plans, but Thénardier has recently found himself desirous of emigrating and in need of cash, and remembered where he could find some.

The aforementioned note is apparently stuffed in Dépêche’s coat pocket. Javert would not have left an unconscious man to freeze to death in any case, but this is even more reason to return to the garden and haul him into the shelter of the pavilion. After he secures the second thug, he holds the note to the light and reads Thénardier’s abysmal handwriting:

Dear m fauchelevent
Let me congratulate you today on your success in marrying off your daughter to monsieur le baron. Sadly my own daughter is dead. I am desiring to forget my troubles and to make a new home for my self in the Americas. For this I require 20,000 francs.
I believe you can help me in my new life. I am in possession of a secret concerning an individual. This individual is called Jean Valjean a dangerous fugitive and criminal. He stole a child a long time ago and has no right to associate with a honourable family.
If I do not receive this money I will tell my secret to monsieur le baron as well as the police. I hope you agree this will not be in the interests of madame la baronne who is in need of protection.
I await your answer at number 2 of Rue du Petit-Banquier. Come alone with the funds I seek.
With respect,
Jondrette 

Javert has to fight back the surge of proprietorial rage — how did these common criminals dare to plot harm against Valjean? — scoffing, “What a stupid plan. The girl’s married already – all Fauchelevent needs to do is to flee town and there’ll be no money for anyone.”

“That’s why Thénardier has a back-up; he’s taken Montparnasse and gone to confront the boy at his wedding. Between the baron and the old man, there’ll be enough for all four of us.”

This gives Javert pause. Under ordinary circumstances, he would hasten to the nearest station-house and enlist the assistance of the night watch. But Valjean’s fugitive status makes this course of action untenable, and besides, the day the former Inspector Javert requires external help to deal with two common criminals will be the day he retires from life itself.

After he has made sure the thugs’ bonds are secure, he tucks the note into his pocket as well as Finistère’s boot knife, and heads into the street to hail a fiacre bound post-haste for the Marais.

 

*

 

When Javert arrives at No. 6 Rue de Filles-du-Calvaire, the hour is late. The gate is shut and the guests’ carriages have departed from the horseshoe-shaped driveway, but the grand manor is still lit up, the light from a hundred brilliant candles shining through the long windows and across the manicured gardens.

Javert remembers the last time he stood at the gate, that hot June night when he helped Valjean convey the dying Pontmercy boy to this family home; recalls the heavy knocker of beaten iron, with a male goat and a satyr confronting each other. He is about to give it the same violent peal as he did last summer, when the gate opens of its own accord. Rather than being confronted by the Gillenormand porter, he is instead greeted by the startled face of Jean Valjean.

“Javert? But dinner is over—and besides, you had said you wouldn’t attend—!” Then, taking in Javert’s informal attire, and the cudgel in Javert’s hand, he changes course. “What has happened?”

“When you were out, I was visited by Patron-Minette,” Javert says grimly. Stepping through the gate, he shows Valjean the note, and watches the man’s face go chalk-white under the moonlight. He has to put the cudgel away and pass his arm about Valjean’s shoulders, for under the dark evening suit and old coat, Valjean’s broad body is suddenly trembling. 

“This is monstrous,” Valjean manages. “He threatens me—and not just me, he threatens the children—he knows I would pay any price for Cosette’s safety —!”

“It is even worse than that,” Javert says. “It seems the man is here. Perhaps he thinks Pontmercy will be an easy touch on his wedding-night.”

“We must stop him, somehow,” Valjean says, his voice shaking. “If he harms Cosette —!”

They have stood here in the open for long enough; Javert propels him in the direction of the house, saying, “We need to find your son-in-law before Thénardier does more mischief.”

The porter who admits them into the hallway has already unbuttoned his formal jacket. Inside, Javert is temporarily dazzled, for the house is still brightly lit, with coloured birds perched amid the candles and around the chandelier, on the walls and sconces, and flowers everywhere. In the dining-room, hired servants are clearing the silverware from the glittering table; musicians in knee-breeches and white gloves are packing away their instruments, and a maid is drawing the curtains across the tall windows to shut out the night at last. The bridal couple having retired and the last guests taken their leave, old M. Gillenormand and the dour aunt are nowhere in sight.

A quick tour of the ground floor yields only more servants dousing the lights and putting chairs away. Valjean catches hold of one of the maids, who points upstairs. 

As they ascend the flower-bedecked staircase, Valjean taking the steps two at a time ahead of Javert and his bad leg; Javert cannot help noting that, despite his recent deprivations, Valjean is still a physical force to be reckoned with, broad and determined and powerful enough to give even Patron-Minette pause.

In contrast to the brilliance of the dining-room and lower chambers, the first floor is lowly-lit and quiet, as befits a bridal chamber. Javert is put in mind of that night when he and Valjean carried Marius Pontmercy up these same steps and into a darkened antechamber with a single candle. 

When they enter the same antechamber from the landing, Valjean startles, and Javert with him—for that sofa is occupied by a slender young man, as it was that June night.

Now, though, the young man springs to his feet with the vigour of a person in the pink of health, and the candlelight falls across a beautiful, haughty, familiar face. 

“Montparnasse,” Javert hisses; that Patron-Minette confederate tries to make a dash for it, but he is no match for two. Between them, Valjean and Javert disarm him of his cunning knives, as well as two pocketsful of Cosette’s wedding jewels and a bag of gold napoleons.

“Let go of me,” Montparnasse pants. Javert has used the young criminal’s good silk cravat to bind his hands, but he continues to struggle all the same, attempting to kick Javert in the shin. 

Javert gives him a shake: “That’s quite enough of that. Where’s your boss? Where’s Thénardier?”

Montparnasse’s eyes widen, as if remembering that he was supposed to be acting as look-out. The door to the bed-chamber swings open, and Cosette Pontmercy emerges, her hair down around her shoulders, a long robe wrapped over her wedding dress, Toussaint at her elbow.

Cosette exclaims, “Papa, what’s happening? What are you and M. Javert doing to this poor man?” 

Valjean says, decisively, “Go back to the room, Cosette. This unfortunate young man is not who he told you he was.”

“A swindler? Heaven defend us,” Toussaint declares. Montparnasse spits out, “You might say the same thing for yourself, old man,” and gasps as Javert gives him another vicious shake.

“I won’t ask you again: where is Thénardier?”

Cosette volunteers, “There’s another man in the library, an older man; he said he had news of Marius’ father, and insisted on speaking with Marius alone. Papa, what does this man mean about you?”

“My dear, I beseech you; this may be dangerous business. Please return to your room with Toussaint.”

Toussaint seems convinced, but Cosette stands her ground: “If so, then you yourself would be in danger! And Marius— is he, too—?”

This is the moment when the library door opens, across the hallway, and the young bridegroom makes his appearance. “Who is there?” Marius calls, crossing the hallway, lamp in hand, and then coming to a dead halt at the tableau in the antechamber. 

Cosette lets out a glad cry when she sees her new husband; at her side, Valjean draws himself up stiffly, but Marius only has eyes for Javert. He gapes in astonishment, stammering: 

“M. l’Inspecteur — you are not dead! I thought you had been killed on the barricades! I thought — God forgive me! I thought M. Fauchelevent —”

Javert gapes at him in return, before he realises what Marius is saying.

“You thought M. Fauchelevent took me away from the barricades to shoot me? He released me instead; he saved me. As he saved you when the barricades fell, and brought you here.” Upon Marius’ even more disbelieving look, he adds, tartly, “I can bear witness to this, for I accompanied him in this effort, and I believe you owe your life to me as well.” 

This revelation raises an expected consternation. “Papa, is this true? Did you follow Marius to the barricades and save his life?” Cosette is asking, urgently, even as Valjean tries gently to bundle her back into her room.When Marius’ knees buckle, there is only Javert to catch him and wrestle him over to the sofa before the lamp falls to the ground and sets fire to the fine carpet. In order to do so he has to let go of Montparnasse, who instantly scrambles over to the window and tries to make his escape; cursing, Javert has to pursue and capture him once again. 

Cosette has managed to evade Valjean’s embrace and rushes to Marius’ side. Recovering from his swoon, Marius clings to her hand and mutters, “For these past weeks, I have been trying to find out who returned me to my home that night, to no avail — almost, I thought it was an angel sent by God. And to discover it was your father — our father!” He passes a shaking hand over his face. “But why did he not speak of this before? M. Thénardier claims Father is really a convict called Jean Valjean — and to think I almost believed him —!”

A rasping laugh fills the room. Thénardier strides from the library, a cocked pistol in his hand. 

“You ought to believe it, boy, because it’s true. There’s Jean Valjean, pretending to be a decent man, but he’s really a fugitive from the bagne of Toulon. He stole your wife away from me when she was a babe, and after her poor mother entrusted her to me all those years ago, and he’s a murderer. I saw him kill a man on the night the barricades fell.” 

He aims the pistol in Marius’ general direction. “Now, I don’t want any trouble. If you pay me 20,000 francs to thank me for saving Colonel Pontmercy’s life, I’ll take my evidence away and you’ll never need to see me again.” 

“You are a liar and a scoundrel,” Valjean says, stoutly, stepping into the centre of the room. The bandage has come loose from his hand; he no longer needs to pretend he has hurt himself. Thénardier’s pistol trains itself squarely upon this new target. Cosette makes a frightened noise, but Valjean stares down its muzzle, completely unafraid. 

“You swindled Cosette’s mother of her money, and drove her to her death. I had to rescue Cosette from your abuse. And, yes, my name is Jean Valjean, and I am a former convict. I stole bread to feed my starving family. But I have never murdered any one; count yourself fortunate that I will not start with you.”

As Cosette gasps, he turns from the pistol to look directly at her; Javert has never seen such fear and longing in his face. “My dear, I am sorry I hid this from you; that I pretended my hand was hurt so I did not sign my false name to your marriage register. But I was so fearful for so long, and afraid that you would not understand.”

“There’s nothing to be afraid of,” she whispers, tears in her eyes. “You only committed crimes to protect people; you are the only father I’ve ever known. You’ll never need to hide from me.” As Thénardier gestures with his pistol, she says to Marius, in a shaking voice: “Dearest, you must do as M. Thénardier says, or he will shoot my father.”

Thénardier says, archly, “That’s right. 20,000 francs, I said, plus the wedding jewellery, and don’t dawdle about it.”

With Cosette clinging to his arm, Marius stumbles to his feet, beginning to draw out the contents of his pockets. “You’ll never get away with this,” he mutters. “The police will find you —!”

“What nonsense,” Thénardier exclaimed, “you wouldn’t dare report this, not when this beloved father is a wanted criminal, and risks the bagne himself with every breath!”

Valjean looks across the room at Javert, as if willing him to protest, but Javert finds he cannot demur; holding on reflexively to Montparnasse, he finds he can barely breathe. Valjean’s life is more valuable to him than money, more important than even the Law; although the outrage is stifling him, he finds in this moment that he cannot do or say anything that would risk Valjean coming to harm.

Seeing no help from that quarter, Valjean draws himself up to his full height. His eyes flash; in the candlelight, he is the very image of incorruptibility, as if he has clothed himself with the armour of God. 

“I will not lend myself to this evil scheme. My child is married, my life is over; I stand ready to return to the bagne —!”

Valjean strides towards Thénardier, unarmed and defenceless. It is plainly written in his face— he is preparing to sacrifice himself; there is nothing left in his life; he is more than willing to surrender to death in place of cruel justice.

As Thénardier lifts his pistol, Javert springs forward. 

Somehow, he manages to put himself in the way of the gun. They grapple; Thénardier howls in frustration; there is a terrible explosion — and the world goes abruptly silent.

Everything around Javert has become slow and dark, though there is very little pain. The light comes and goes. In a moment of illumination, he sees Valjean’s face bending over him, eyes clouded with what Javert eventually recognises is grief.

Valjean’s mouth is moving; Javert sees rather than hears the words on his lips. 

“Why would you risk your life for a convict?”

The answer, once so far away, seems to have arrived at last. “He is worth my life. He always was, but I was too blind to see it before.”

But Javert doesn’t know if he says it out loud, for the darkness has carried him away once again, like the frigid waters of the Seine.







Part 3.2 — Rue Plumet; April, 1833



The Almighty might be a demanding master, but He is never needlessly cruel; His mercies are as boundless as the sea. After a turbulent winter, during which an empty future loomed ahead of him and all hope might seem lost, at last they find themselves washed onto calmer shores, where all around them are green shoots of spring. 

Jean Valjean, nineteen year veteran of the bagne, fugitive from justice, estranged from all manner of affection, thought he would be losing a daughter this February, but instead has found himself gaining a son, and gaining so much more besides.

On her wedding night, after she finally assured herself that Valjean had not been harmed by Thénardier’s bullet, Cosette wept and wept into his shoulder. “I cannot believe you were planning to hide yourself away from me, all because you were too afraid to tell me about your past! Well, now you must come and live with us. You shall have your plot in the garden, and when it is spring you shall cultivate strawberries here, and I will never be parted from you again, ever!”

“Thank you, my dear, but I think Javert would be better off in Rue Plumet,” Valjean said, and Cosette subsided, for the man who saved her father could do no wrong in her eyes, even after Valjean had haltingly described the part the former inspector had played in poor Fantine’s demise. 

“Well, he’s changed, then. He wouldn’t have risked his life to save you if he hadn’t been sorry for the way he treated you before, or about Mama,” she said, decisively, and Valjean found himself rather agreeing.

Javert was willing to pay off Thénardier in order to save Valjean from re-arrest; astonishing as it is, it seems he has discovered something he esteems more highly than the Law. And when Valjean confronted Thénardier, this constant blight on their family’s happiness, Javert put himself in harm’s way, put his body between a bullet and Valjean himself; preserved Valjean’s life.

Javert himself survived the gunshot, which had pierced through his hand. Thénardier was not so lucky, for the bullet then buried itself into his skull, killing him instantly. In the aftermath of the gun going off—Montparnasse escaping, Marius and Toussaint raising the alarm, Cosette clinging to him and weeping — Valjean folded to the floor, wrapped his cravat around Javert’s damaged hand, and held Javert in his arms very gingerly until the doctor arrived, and with him, the police. 

Fortunately, these authorities were predisposed to look favourably on the attempted robbery incident at No. 5. Javert’s long years of service were not forgotten; further, Henri Gisquet, the new Prefect of Police, wishing to distract from the growing public criticism concerning the Prefecture’s handling of the cholera epidemic and corruption scandal within its department, was quick to award this brave retired policeman a commendation for having taken down a condemned felon. 

In the midst of the commendation preparations, Marius managed to uncover a little-known regulation in the post-1830 laws which annulled the Bourbon restoration and the practices of the bagne. A prisoner who had endured the abuses of the Ancien Régime was apparently entitled to a reduction in sentence as compensation. Using that provision, Marius filed a petition to have the King pardon Valjean’s rupture du ban offence in place of such a reduction in sentence. This petition came on for hearing on the first day of Spring, and was acceded to before the Seine assizes.

Javert himself missed his ceremony and the trial, owing to a fever that, despite the doctor’s best efforts, plagued him through the winter as the bones and flesh in his hand refused to mend. But he was well enough to attend the petition hearing, his arm still in a sling, and though he had not been called upon to testify, his implacable presence made an undeniable impression on the court at the Palais de Justice.

That presence at the petition was also undeniably comforting to Valjean himself. He was glad to see Javert on his feet once more, of course, but it was more than that. There were two junctures in his life when the courts of Law had received him in succession: the first, to take away his rights to his body and his name and condemn him to a life of numbered servitude, when the doors of the galleys opened and swallowed him up; and now this second, when his rights were returned to him, where his life was returned to him, where his name was returned to him, and the doors to his future were opened at last.

Jean Valjean, veteran of the bagne, fugitive no longer, has finally been restored to himself, and it means more than he can express that his former jailer, his old lover and old enemy, is there to bear witness to it.

Marius insists on a luncheon at Rue des Filles-du-Calvaire to celebrate, though Javert, as expected, declines to attend. Cosette sits at Valjean’s side and chatters brightly away about the flowers and strawberries they will plant now that spring has arrived; he thinks she is still trying to persuade him to agree to take up residence with them. A month ago, he would undoubtedly have accepted; he marvels at how quickly matters have changed.

Then he revises his assessment: perhaps matters have not changed so quickly, but over time, over a summer and then a winter, and over long years of denial and self-denial which have finally seen the spring.

Thanks to Cosette’s blandishments, it is late when he returns to Rue Plumet. The afternoon sun brightens the walls of the house in which Valjean has made his first home. Its vast garden is stirring to life after the long winter’s slumber, the ground bedecked with shy sprouts of green and the bare branches of trees beginning to bud. 

Throughout Javert’s most recent illness, Valjean has kept the fire going in the grate, even during the day; the house is filled with crackling warmth, and the smell of coffee that Javert undoubtedly made when he returned from court, and the imported roses that Cosette brought with her during her last visit.

This has been Valjean’s first real home, in the way that his parents’ and sister’s house in Faverolles had not been, nor Madeleine’s residence in Montreuil or Fauchelevent’s garret in Petit-Picpus. He has turned it into his secret stronghold; it was here that he raised his daughter into womanhood and gained his son; here he once again learned to live with the former inspector who has known him for more than half his life, and to trust him, now that he has shown himself to be trustworthy; in the same way as Valjean has finally learned to trust himself.

He should never have doubted the daughter of his heart. He should have never doubted Marius. He should have never doubted himself. And as for Javert …

There is a strange thudding sound coming from upstairs. Valjean climbs the staircase, and is confronted with the sight of Javert viciously and one-handedly stuffing papers into a small suitcase. 

The library is spotless, with all books and pamphlets arranged systematically; the Spartan bedroom, where Javert had convalesced through the previous summer and once again this winter, as neat as a new pin, the bed made with even more precision than Toussaint had ever achieved.

Though the room is warm, Valjean feels his heart fill with sudden winter. “What are you doing?” he asks, though he knows the answer.

Javert looks up with a terrible scowl. He is still wearing his one formal suit from the morning’s court attendance, and as stiffly as if it was his old uniform; now he stands as if at attention. 

“I am leaving, finally. It is high time I stopped scrounging off you; now I am well again, I should stand on my own feet, as I ought to have long ago.”

Valjean makes himself speak calmly over the rapid-fire sound of his blood in his ears. “You aren’t scrounging, Javert. You will always have a place here. After all, I owe you my life.”

It is the wrong thing to say: Javert’s frown deepens. “And what of it? I owe you mine twice over. This isn’t a question of what anyone deserves: I don’t pretend to have earned a place at your side, you’re not obliged to me for anything. Your daughter is married, and wants you to live with her, and you no longer need me here.” 

Valjean finds he is holding his hands out to Javert as if trying to placate a wild animal; he makes himself stop. “I do, I do need you,” he says, and realises how true that is when his voice shakes on the last word.

Javert hears that note, and he puts the suitcase down, crossing the room to stand in front of Valjean. This close, Valjean can see conflict in the man’s piercing regard, which has come to be as familiar as his own heartbeat. 

“What in the world for? I will always be your jailer, the man who would have returned you to prison in Montreuil, who didn’t believe that you could change.” 

Javert’s own voice is filled with the same self-loathing as on the night when Valjean drove him from his bed. Valjean had not known how to respond to it then, but now, in the face of Javert’s imminent departure, the answer dawns on him like the afternoon sunlight. 

“I, too, didn’t believe you could change. But I believe it now.” It has taken years to overcome the damage done in Toulon, in Montreuil, but at last Valjean has managed to arrive upon this shore. Javert has come to see him as worthy in the eyes of the Law, and more: sees convicts finally being as worthy as free men — no less bad, no less good: with the same rights before the Almighty. And arriving at that belief, Valjean can finally allow himself to say: “I want you to stay, here. With me.”

Javert can’t meet his eyes; he sits on the edge of desk, which creaks alarmingly under his weight. “How can you want this?” he asks, so quietly that Valjean has to strain to hear him. “I’m not worthy of you, I’ve never been worthy.” Even more quietly: “You were right to turn me away that night.”

“Maybe I was right,” Valjean has to admit. “Maybe I wasn’t ready to trust you then.” As emotion flares in Javert’s eyes, he adds, “But I’m ready to trust you now. You were the only one I would ever have yielded to before, the only one honourable enough. And now everything is different. You have come so far, done so much, and I’m not just speaking of Thénardier.” 

Valjean thinks of Cosette, of Marius and a place in civil society, of the right to his own name again, after so many years. His throat closing, he manages, “Thanks to you, I have my life back. I’m choosing to give it to you.”

Javert has forgotten to look away: he stares into Valjean’s face as if it’s the only true thing in the wide world. His mouth opens, but it seems to be deprived of the ability to form words. 

Valjean knows that this next step is his. Without it, Javert will pick up his suitcase and walk away, in the same way as he, Valjean, would have walked away from his treasured Cosette: because he had considered himself too unworthy to stay. 

He cannot let this happen. He walks over to the desk, takes Javert’s face in both his hands, lifts it into the sunlight. Javert’s blunt features are made for grimaces and not gentleness, and yet in this vulnerable moment, Valjean has never found that broad, uncomely countenance more moving.

“I know you won’t ask me if you don’t know my answer. So I am telling you that I wish to be yours. I always have. Ask me.”

Javert swallows. For all his faults, he has never been lacking in courage; now, though he is trembling with restraint and fear and what Valjean realises is desire, he doesn’t hesitate. 

“Will you be mine, then, at least for the time being?”

“Yes,” Valjean says. He rubs a thumb across Javert’s cheekbone and watches his eyelids flicker. “In the same way as you are mine. And it will be for as long as you will have me.”

Javert winds the fingers of his good hand around Valjean’s wrist. He mutters, “I will need to be certain this is what you want.” 

“Then keep asking me,” Valjean says. 

They are now so close he can feel the warmth of Javert’s breath against his skin, and almost taste the words on Javert’s lips as Javert says, thickly, “Well, then. Let me get on my knees for you.”

“Please do,” murmurs Valjean, and Javert doesn’t hesitate. As on that fateful night, he folds to his knees as readily as any veteran of the bagne; he undoes Valjean’s trouser flap one-handed and presses kisses to Valjean’s hardening prick, coaxing it to a full, luxurious life that is no longer forbidden to him.





Thus their roles are reversed, thus the years of chastity fall away from the both of them: Javert takes Valjean deeply into his mouth as eagerly as a man drinking at a mountain spring, and Valjean finds himself crying out as he arrives, without warning, at his peak, so forcefully that the desk groans and the ink-stand creaks alarmingly, and one or two of the books crash to the floor. 

“That was – that went well,” Valjean manages, when he gets his breath back. Javert is sitting back on his heels, looking complacent; as well he might, for Valjean cannot recall ever having as satisfying an orgasm before. Loose-limbed with pleasure, he murmurs, “Ask me something else.”

Javert’s eyes are dark and eager. “Let me now undress you,” he says, rising to his feet and taking hold of Valjean’s jacket; then, shaking his head self-consciously at his current incapacity: “Although you may have to assist me with this part.”

“Gladly,” Valjean says, smiling, and, between them, they succeed in removing each other’s formal clothing as they cross the floor, piece by piece: cravat and vest, boots and trousers, until they are in their shirtsleeves together in the bedroom, seated side by side on the wide bed.

Their lips meet, tentatively: this is their first kiss in all the years that they have known each other. Masters do not permit their submissives to kiss them on the mouth, and seldom indulge their slaves in any save the greediest kisses, but now Valjean is a pardoned man and this kiss is something he gives Javert freely, and Javert shivers as he takes custody of it at last. 

It is hesitant at first, uncertain; uncharacteristic of two decisive, strong-minded men who have finally allowed themselves to come together, who have witnessed years of the most debased sexual congress, who experienced some of it with each other and called it anything but love. They learn each other: huffs of breath and slow pressure and a slide of tongues; they trade open-mouthed kisses, and as the heat rises between them, they clasp hold of as much of each other as they can, Javert growling in frustration over his bad arm, both of them thirsting for each other after so many years of drought. 

Javert’s cock presses insistently against Valjean’s inner leg, slick through two layers of small clothes, and hard and aching with need; despite his satiation Valjean feels himself rousing again. He rolls his hips, and Javert groans out loud. 

“Let me have you. It has been so long, I have thought I might go mad of it, and from not having it.” He clutches desperately at Valjean’s shirt. “I am speaking nonsense; you see, I am mad already; but I don’t care, as long as I can have you.” 

“You can,” Valjean says, and spreads his thighs to welcome Javert as he has not done in ten long years.

There is lamp-oil on the nightstand to keep the night lamp lit. With the full brightness of the afternoon sun falling over their bed, they put the oil to another purpose; Valjean groans as Javert’s thick, knotted digit slides into him, opening him up. He has not been touched like this in years, but his body remembers, spreading itself shamelessly on Javert's fingers and surrendering to Javert.

When Javert enters him, he cannot hold back the shuddering, entirely wanton sound he makes. It has been so long, and now Javert is finally here, laying claim to him at last, filling him so completely and excruciatingly that there is no room left within him for restraint.

It seems the infirmity is mutual; Javert is moaning openly, sweat sheening his forehead, straining between Valjean’s thighs, coming undone by this long-denied act of love.

"Valjean," he pants, “Valjean,” and Valjean finds himself tilting his head back, exposing his throat, surrendering the last of himself. 

Javert makes a desperate sound, and his good hand fastens around Valjean’s neck, at the place where his collar would have rested. His long fingers are an even more effective circle than the leather would have been; they make enough pressure to hold Valjean in place, not enough to stop his breath, barely enough to leave the marks that they both crave. As Valjean gasps for air, his body clenching under and around Javert’s, his hole burning with the indescribable stretch of Javert’s cock deep inside him, it is at the same time too much and not enough; he feels both overcome and frantic for more.

Javert is in similar straits: his breath sobbing between his teeth as he thrusts faster, driving their bodies together, a sailor on storm-ravaged seas, striving to outpace the tide. Valjean's thighs catch around Javert’s hips; he hears himself make a wet, choking noise that sounds like Javert’s name, and then Javert is falling apart, crying out as he spends himself helplessly in spasms that take him far from himself.

He releases Valjean’s neck and collapses against Valjean’s chest as if he’s drowning; careful of the bad arm, Valjean holds him until the storm is spent.

At length Javert raises his head. In the last of the afternoon sunlight, his face is red from his efforts, his greying hair in disarray, and Valjean has never desired him more. He is also acutely aware that he has himself grown fully tumescent; it seems the habit of chastity is an easy one to put off.

Javert realises it too; one corner of his mouth crooks upwards. “You are a marvel,” he breathes. “Anyone would not believe that you are a man of almost sixty winters! You’re as eager as a youth, and just as hard.” 

He takes Valjean into his good hand and begins to stroke; Valjean knows it will not be long before his second climax overwhelms him. But it seems Javert has a different plan; he is not finished with Valjean yet.

“I want to feel it inside me,” he says, and hooks one leg around Valjean, and rolls him so their positions are reversed.

Valjean stares down at Javert, temporarily at a loss. His own flushed erection juts against his belly, clearly having taken wind from this proposition. Javert glares up at him; he has never, to Valjean’s knowledge, ever yielded a quarter to anyone in his entire life, and it is baffling to Valjean why he would wish to start now. 

“I’m not sure you’d enjoy —?” he begins, before he’s interrupted unceremoniously.

“That wasn’t meant to be a request.” Javert frowns, amends this to: “That is to say, let me be the judge. I want to know how it feels, Valjean; be quick about it.”

“As you wish,” Valjean manages, and reaches for the lamp oil. He is afraid this will be a painful exercise, but Javert’s unbreached hole is surprisingly pliant, his large body still slack and wrung out with the remnants of bliss. Valjean crooks his fingers, reaching for that knot inside that gives pleasure, and Javert lets out a moan in response. 

“Now, if you please. I want to feel it,” and Valjean takes a deep breath and aligns himself between Javert’s thighs, and enters slowly, pressing skin to heated skin, until he fills Javert as completely as he has himself been filled. 

He puts his mouth very close to Javert’s sweating face. “Are you feeling it now?” he enquires, gently, and Javert nods.

“Yes, I am. Make me yours. Don’t hold back,” and Valjean doesn’t, beginning to thrust slowly at first, the gentle rhythm of waves on a shore, and then, as Javert gasps and writhes and tries to breathe in huge, juddering gulps of air, much less gently. 

He has never done this before, never participated in this different configuration of claim and surrender. That Javert is willing to taste this himself, willing to place himself in Valjean’s hands and let him have this, is the surest sign he is a changed man; the sheer pleasure of it is stiflingly addictive, and Valjean has years of chastity to make up for. Perhaps they can both make up for this lost time together.

Too much and not enough, both overwhelmed and frantic for more. There is no longer anything slow or gentle within either of them: Valjean can no longer hold back, and Javert returns all of it to him in kind. As the sunset paints their room in red, they come together like much younger men, riding out the storm together, until Valjean hurtles over the cliff and plummets into the crashing waves; but instead of breaking upon the rocks, he’s caught securely in Javert’s arms, and together they wash up on familiar shores. 

They remain that way while the sun sets and the moon rises, limning the wreck of their bed in silver. Valjean is utterly spent; claimed and conquered; he yields to Javert's embrace as if he is home at last.

Finally, Javert bestirs himself to remark, hoarsely, “And so, you see, I’m yours after all.”

“Yes, you are,” Valjean says. As if to underline the declaration, his spent cock twitches, still half inside Javert. Joined together in this way, he feels youthful again: as if they have somehow been given the power to turn back the years and return to that time when they were both young men falling in love. This second chance is not one to be squandered. “As I belong to you, Javert, never doubt that; it was never a lie. It was just that God always had a prior claim.”

Javert makes a fond, scoffing noise. “Just so you are aware: this is the only prior claim I will accede to. And it is only because He was good enough to deliver me into your hands at the river, and to entrust you to me thereafter." He quietens, and his good arm tightens around Valjean. “Don’t mistake me, either; I know I am answerable — to you, to your child and her husband, to God. I won’t betray that trust.”

Valjean feels the import of this confession settle over him, around his throat like an invisible collar of possession; like a claim on his heart. Thanks to a confluence of unlikely events, to the grace of the Almighty, they have at last been able to put right the past, to come together in the present, to face the future together. Valjean does not know how it is that they have deserved such mercy in the winter of their lives, but he has learned to give up measuring his actions against what he deserves, and doubting in the mysterious ways of God. 

“We both will not,” he agrees. Watching Javert’s face in the moonlight, he knows the time will come, very soon, when he will ask Javert for his collar — and when Javert will trust himself enough to agree at last.