Title: Guardian
Work ID: 32325418
Author: PBJellie
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Hunger Games Setting, Minor Character Death, Hunger Games-Typical Death/Violence, Dystopia, Alcohol, Orphans, Class Differences, Racism, just a little, It's a Dystopian Hellscape, District 8 (Hunger Games), Assisted Suicide
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 9/9

Summary:
"Personally, I'd go through 3 to get to 6, then maybe steal a plane." 
A blonde boy, with olive skin that seemed unnaturally yellow, furrowed his brow in response. Oh shit, he'd told his joke to Enjolras, the retired Game Maker's son. 
"Hah hah," Grantaire nervously sputtered in a whisper, yanking his hand back, "I'm kidding. Just a joke, okay. I'd never leave. I'd never defy the Capital." 
 
Grantaire was the type who would make a new friend right before the Reaping.

Work text:


"Imagine living in a place with plants," Grantaire teased as his teacher did her best to keep the class under control. "Do we even need to know about photosynthesis if we're going to spend the rest of our lives threading needles?" 



The chattering in the room grew louder and Grantaire chuckled to himself. When they took tests it was so quiet that the buzzing of fluorescent lights drove him insane.



It was a short drive, according to his classmates. He was failing this class, along with the rest of them. Which was fine, after his last Reaping tomorrow, he'd be allowed to quit. He'd go work in the factory full time, and spend his sparse free time with his books. 



He was athletic, and if he was from District 7, he'd be some sort of folk hero. He could climb, and it'd be something his district could be proud of, instead of an excuse for a peacekeeper to lecture him about trespassing and fire code. 



Fire code; it was laughable. 



The Capital wouldn't care if their whole district burned to the ground, as long as they got their textiles in a timely fashion. Eventually District 3 would automate them out of existence. Would they bus them to surrounding districts? Or would they slowly starve to death from lack of work? 



"I don't know why they even bother with school the week before the Reaping." 



"To make sure we don't bust through the fence to 9 and make a run for the Wilds," Grantaire flippantly replied. He didn't even know who was dumb enough to ask such a thing. 



"You think you could get to the Wilds on foot?" 



A hand grabbed his wrist, stopping him mid sketch. It was a shame, because really that tree was shaping up to be the best he'd ever done. He looked up and rolled his eyes. 



"Personally, I'd go through 3 to get to 6, then maybe steal a plane." 



A blonde boy, with olive skin that seemed unnaturally yellow, furrowed his brow in response. Oh shit, he'd told his joke to Enjolras, the retired Game Maker's son. 



"Hah hah," Grantaire nervously sputtered in a whisper, yanking his hand back, "I'm kidding. Just a joke, okay. I'd never leave. I'd never defy the Capital." 



His stomach lurched as Enjolras smiled at him. Possible spray tan aside, he was pretty. He was stunning, gorgeous even. He looked like he belonged in the Capital, in one of the terrible geometric atrocities they called clothing. It might even look good on him. 



Hell, the curtains Grantaire hemmed after class would look fantastic on him. 



The room grew louder; students taking one last chance to joke with their friends, just in case. Everyone with a family would go home tonight for a fancy dinner, with meat and pastries. They'd embrace and dote on each other at the start of the three week factory shut down. 




I would. 

Enjolras jostled a plain sheet of paper on Grantaire's desk, then like some sort of maniac, added, 

we all should.




"You that nervous about being reaped?" 



Did Game Maker's kids even have to add their names? Surely, they didn't. Enjolras was a son of the Capital. His parents owned the peacekeeper's garment factory. 



"I don't take tesserae," not a surprise, but Grantaire snorted anyway. 



He kept his voice low, just in case, "I do." 



He had 22 scraps of paper in that demented fish bowl. And that grain was so coarsely ground that it hardly kept the shape of break and the oil was, more often than not, rancid. 



"So, the Wilds?" Enjolras'  eyes sparkled, like he was lifted from a propaganda poster.



Grantaire guffawed, then ran his hand over his neck. Surely, this perfect boy was an informant. Those three peacekeepers had been murdered last month. Grantaire didn't do that, and he didn't know who did, but it made sense that the Capital was trying to ferret out the bad apples. They didn't know that apples never made it to 8 without bits of rot. 



Which was nonsensical. They were close to 11. Close enough to get produce in less than a day by train. The Capital, at the other side of the damn country, got apples so perfect they looked like wax. 



If the President  hadn't taken a big, juicy bite of a green one on camera, Grantaire would have insisted unblemished apples were fake. The President was an idiot, but he wasn't dumb enough to eat a candle. Or maybe he was, and Grantaire was just as easy to convince as the rest of the districts. 



"They shouldn't make us do this." 



"Oh, for sure," Grantaire gasped after the words left his mouth. "I mean, it's not like any of us need to know anything but changing a bobbin and guiding fabric. School. That's what I mean. School is what they shouldn't make us do." 



Enjolras seemed to deflate. Grantaire relaxed, satisfied that he wouldn't be dragged into a Capital run hospital. He wouldn't be a good Avox, he knew that. Not that he knew any Avoxes. 



They were odd tongueless creatures that served food at peacekeeper barracks and brought deliveries to market. Some of them worked in the Capital, from what he'd seen, the attractive ones. He wasn't shockingly handsome, no, he'd come to terms with that before he turned ten. He was not so cute that he could be eye candy. He'd do hard labor in some dungeon until he died of preventable disease, just like everyone else.



Five years ago, there'd been a Cholera epidemic. 



His father died that way. The pipes where he worked were defective. The septic backflowed into the taps, and most of the men who made carpet died within a week. They'd gone to the hospital vomiting, and every doctor and nurse that saw them knew it was Cholera. 



The medicine from the Capital came after nine days, and by then, it was all over.



"You're not going to college?" 



Enjolras was too out of touch, even for someone being coached by the Capital. "I'm not even passing high school." 



"But you're smart," Grantaire looked up to protest, but Enjolras cut him off. "I know you're smart. I sit behind you; I can see what you read." 



"All approved by the Capital. I never read anything else," Grantaire added, feeling something desperate he couldn't name. If Enjolras was sent to watch him and he knew that Grantaire owned a spliced copy of 

The Art of War, 

he was fucked. They'd just behead him in the square. There'd be a television program, and mandatory viewing would be Grantaire's head on a pike. 



"Tzu's no Thoreau, but I can appreciate it."



No. This was a trap. "Whose that? Are they in our class? I don't have much time for friends outside of school and work." He certainly didn't have time to read 

Civil Disobedience.

 Civil disobedience was a stupid idea, anyways. 




Do you think someone's listening?

 Enjolras scribbled. 

I read those with you.




Enjolras had read forbidden books over his shoulder? Honestly? 



That was somehow the hottest thing about this perfect boy. Was he willing to risk his life to talk to a boy? He always did something before the games, but it was usually just petty theft, or a quick act of vandalism. Treason was not where he thought the train would stop the night before his last Reaping. 



He was 18. He was almost done, and then he could live out his shitty life in peace. 



Enjolras batted his eyelashes, and Grantaire felt his hesitation fade away. 



"I think, if you'd like help on your book report from me," Grantaire's eyes bulged as he gritted his teeth, "then you are not as smart as you seem." 



Grantaire was going to puke as Enjolras grinned, "sometimes a fresh set of eyes can help in the proofreading process."



When Enjolras dug in his bag, Grantaire was sure that he was about to get cuffed. He spent at least three years reading forbidden texts in front of the son of a Game Maker. And he knew. Which meant everyone did. 



In kindergarten Enjolras told everyone his dad made the Hunger Games before he was born, and then pouted when no one, teacher included, wanted to be near him. In fifth grade he brought in a tracker, stained with blood that was used in the 13th games. 



"I find this helps with book reports," Enjolras slid a long blue pen wrapped in black silk ribbon. Carefully, he prodded it with his pencil, just in case it exploded. 



Which wasn't even going to help, he realized when he made contact. If it was a bomb, he'd die all the same. 




Cipher




It was worse than a bomb. Grantaire put it back in Enjolras' hands. There was a moment of skin on skin contact where Grantaire's heart stopped beating. 



"No thank you," he mouthed, pulling away. Was he nervous because Enjolras was so devastatingly perfect, or was it the obvious danger? 



His arousal mixed with disappointment when he realized it was the first. 



"Well, will you teach me about, uh, bobbins?" 



"Like later? Or now?" 



"After class?" Enjolras' voice made Grantaire's heart hiccup.



Why him? Was it really about the books? 



"I mean, it's the eve of the Reaping," Grantaire stammered. 



Enjolras nodded solemnly, "and I suppose your family wants you home." 



Clearly, he wasn't with the Capital. Any Capital agent with his check would know his family was dead. They knew he was sleeping in abandoned buildings, because every so often, peacekeepers caught him.



"Doesn't yours?" 



For the first time in their conversation, Enjolras looked truly angry. "I don't care what they want. They're criminals. They've committed-"



"To making your favorite meal!" Grantaire shouted, cutting him off. "Which is? What?" Enjolras' anger fizzled out, and was replaced with something worse. No, this wouldn't work. "They're going to cook you something, of course. But if you want to talk about your book report, we can. After class, before dinner. I can't read a book report unless we're away from other people." 



No one in the class seemed to catch any of the unsavory parts. No one even looked at Enjolras for fear of getting on his bad side, and they rightfully pegged Grantaire as an idiot. He was, so it was only fair.



Enjolras was indeed terrifying, just not in the ways they thought. 



"So you said we could talk?" 



Yeah, Grantaire had said that. Grantaire was an idiot. He should have said something about being illiterate. Would Enjolras have believed that Grantaire just flipped through specially bound books to look smart? 



"You can talk," Grantaire finally said, eyes darting around the courtyard. He tapped his ear twice and hoped that Enjolras was following him. 



He hoped, even though it'd be better if Enjolras got lost and forgot his name. 



A soft hand latched onto his wrist, and Grantaire's stomach clung to the back of his throat. Was Enjolras just touching him so he wouldn't get lost? Most likely, Grantaire decided, begging his organs to settle.



Why would Enjolras know anything to the west of school? He lived in a gated community, next to the empty Victor's Village. From what Grantaire could see from the slats in the ten foot tall fence, Enjolras had an actual lawn.



The west side of town must have been underwhelming. It was all crumbling concrete in shades of grey, with Capital posters plastered on the sides of abandoned buildings, too sun bleached to read. Even the air, thick with smoke from the factories, seemed dingy.



"Where are we going?"



"Somewhere we can be alone," Grantaire pulled Enjolras next to him so they walked side by side.



With great trepidation, Grantaire pried Enjolras' fingers away, and pointed toward a hole in a chain link fence. This part of town was deserted. Behind the fence was the burnt out husk of a towel factory. Grantaire couldn't remember when the fire happened; sometime when he was in primary school if he had to guess. 



The building still wasn't secured, but neither was the collapsed jean factory that killed his mother and sister. It was too depressing to squat there, even for him.



"Are we allowed here?" 



"Of course not," Grantaire smirked, ducking through the fence. "I come here sometimes, and no peacekeeper would be willing to climb into a condemned building to eavesdrop." 



"There's Jabberjays," Enjolras scoffed, following Grantaire all the same. 



Even though it wasn't surprising that Enjolras knew about tools of the state, it still made him snicker. "A bird would stick out here." 



When Grantaire glanced back before ducking beneath a collapsing doorway, Enjolras nodded, like Grantaire was offering him new information. Were birds not out of place to him? 



"Wait, are there birds by your house?" 



Enjolras nodded, shamefaced, "my mom puts out seeds and we have a fountain." 



Why would anyone waste food on birds? They weren't even necessary. What purpose did birds serve? 



"So, they're like your pets?" 



"No, we have a cat." 



"For rats?" There were rats near Enjolras' home? Really? He guessed not even the Capital could control vermin.



"No, she lives inside." 



"Inside? Like, you feed it food and everything?" Grantaire snorted, then offered his arm when Enjolras tripped over a hunk of loose brick. "It's interesting to see how the other half lives." 



Enjolras seemed to mull it over as they navigated the factory to a mostly intact break room where Grantaire stashed his things. There was a small patch of sunlight filtering in through a hole in the ceiling, but otherwise it was dark. In the shadows, Grantaire studied the exaggerated lines of Enjolras' face. 



He was so handsome, even as he seemed to be struck by a fresh horror when he saw a pile of Grantaire's clothes stacked against the wall. Maybe it was the toothbrush and the jug of water stacked on the counter next to the last dredges of his last tessera, that finally clued Enjolras into Grantaire's situation. 



"You live here," Enjolras stated, eyeing the books stacked against the wall. "Where is your family? Do they live here, too?" 



"Just me," Grantaire shrugged, grabbing the books and dropping them on an abandoned table with a thud. "I don't care if you read them here, but you're not taking my books. They're mine." 



Enjolras nodded, grabbing the leatherbound book from the top of the stack. He blew the dust off the cover, then snuck over to the light, then grimaced. "This is a history of the games. I have this at home." 



"Do you?" Grantaire teased. "Open it and see if it's like yours." 



Excitedly, he leafed through the pages, then once he scanned part of one, grimaced. "This is just that dumb book." 



"Every fourth page is something different." Enjolras looked at him, like he was stupid, and Grantaire took it upon himself to teach a Game Maker's son how to read banned books. He was an idiot, wasn't he? "I bind them myself. Peacekeepers leaf through stuff, so I use really thin paper for the text I actually want to read, and then original paper for the original book. All I have to do is remove every 4th page and replace it, then sew the mess back together." 



Grantaire plucked his book from Enjolras' hands, then opened it to a random spot in the middle. It opened to a sanitized history of the games, just like it was supposed to. With Enjolras watching over his shoulder, he carefully turned the page to reveal part of 

Civil Disobedience

. 



"I can be clever," Grantaire beamed as Enjolras ghosted his fingers across the text. "I transcribed it myself, so if the font looks off, that's why." 



"That's genius," Enjolras stammered, eyes fixated on the page. "This is the most remarkable thing I've ever seen." 



Now that warranted a laugh. Surely Enjolras was joking. Snickering to himself Grantaire shook his head. "I have it on good authority that you have actual birds and I've seen your home through that fence, and you might even have a tree." 



"We have two," Enjolras shrugged, not looking away from the book. "Trees and birds aren't illegal." 



They might as well have been. Grantaire remembered a few anemic trees surrounding the stage where they held the Reaping, and maybe even the occasional bird, but that was a twenty mile bus ride. And he was always too nervous to enjoy the scenery. 



"So you live here?" Enjolras asked, not bothering to do anything but scan the page Grantaire opened to. "How do you live here?" 



What was he supposed to say? 



"How do you cook?" Enjolras clarified. "Is there power?" 



"No," Grantaire pointed toward a charred mark on the ground near the sink. "I take fabric scraps from my job. They heat the room alright, and I can usually cook my tesserae into something I can stomach."



He didn't feel the need to tell Enjolras that he stole the scraps. The boy seemed worried enough. "This Reaping is my last year, so I can quit school. I'll rent a room somewhere with heat, power and water once I can get more hours." 



Enjolras still looked worried. 



"It freezes here," he said, words clipped. "This room isn't even insulated." 



"It's summer, so I'm fine. I make due in the winter. I haven't died yet." 



That righteous anger was back on Enjolras face. This appeared to be as big a deal as his father murdering children. His dad was the Game Maker for five years before his cushy retirement, meaning he'd personally slaughtered 115 children and permanently traumatized another 5. 



Grantaire not having a warm spot to sleep in the winter wasn't anywhere near that travesty. 



"It's all such bullshit," Enjolras finally said. He had the good sense to whisper it, at least. "All of it. The Reaping, the tesserae, your home. It's artificial scarcity."



"You didn't learn that term from me," Grantaire joked, feeling some tension leave his shoulders. Enjolras was just a like minded rebel, not an agent. 



In return, he nodded, a blush dusting over his cheeks as the sunlight grew weaker in the room. "I'm just, I'm not stupid. I know they lie to us." 



"I mean, you brought it up in a crowded room, so maybe you're a little stupid," Grantaire dropped the jovial tone, then firmly said, "they'll kill you for saying shit like that. Even if your dad's important." 



"My father is not important," Enjolras snapped, closing the book. "My father is a murderer who deserves to be shot by firing squad." 



"And he's waiting for you for dinner," Grantaire said, looking at the sky through the ceiling. "It's late." Enjolras looked hurt as he nodded, so he added, "you can come back, though, some other day."



"We can sit next to each other on the bus tomorrow?" Enjolras mumbled, staring at the floor. "We're friends, right?" 



Were they friends? Grantaire nodded, somewhat on impulse. It'd be nice to have a friend. They could talk about fun things in private, like 

The Art of War

, and in public, they could talk about stupid things. 



Like why on Earth Enjolras' family felt the need to provide a habitat for birds. 



"Yeah, of course we're friends," Grantaire said as his book was placed back on the table. "Talk about normal shit tomorrow though, they'll be listening." 



Enjolras nodded, then nimbly retreated out of the factory.



They did sit next to each other on the bus. Their shoulders touched and neither of them mentioned it. They didn't shy away, either. Friends touched shoulders, that seemed normal enough. 



And inviting someone to the place you were squatting and showing him contraband had to count for something as far as friendship went. 



And anyway, Enjolras seemed pleased to see him. Even if he was obviously surprised when Grantaire slid into the seat next to him. 



"Morning," Grantaire yawned, rubbing the sleep from his eyes. "Another fantastic day in District 8." 



Enjolras kept his mouth in a straight line and nodded. At least he had the sense not to start bitching about the Capital on a crowded bus. He didn't seem to know what to talk about, so Grantaire did his best to guide the conversation somewhere suitable. 



"Tell me about your cat," Grantaire nudged him, knocking their knees together. Enjolras nodded, but didn't say anything. The bus to the Reaping was usually quiet, but today Grantaire needed to talk to someone. Specifically Enjolras, and about something that wouldn't get them flogged in the public square. "Did you name it?" 



"Her? Yeah, her name's Patches," Enjolras shrugged, then pushed himself a little closer to Grantaire. 



"Why that?" 



"Well, she's black and white and her fur is like spots that blend into each other." 


 


Grantaire couldn't help but snorted. Patches was her name, because her fur was mottled. Clearly, Enjolras hadn't said mottled, because despite living in District 8, he didn't seem to know anything about fabric. He couldn't describe a pattern, even if he wanted to. 



"Well, tell me more about Patches, who doesn't kill rats and lives in your house," Grantaire teased, placing his hand on Enjolras' knee. The scenery whizzed by outside, and something electrifying went through him as he grabbed Enjolras' leg and squeezed. "Come on, talk to me. I want to talk." 



"To me?"



"Yeah, to you," Grantaire reassured him. "Tell me about the cat."



"She's all fluffy," Enjolras smiled, looking at Grantaire's hand. "Like a dandelion." 



Fuck, did Enjolras have dandelions at his house, too? The peacekeepers sprayed the cracks in the sidewalk every week, just so nothing would grow. Grantaire decided he'd keep that to himself. 



"She's soft, and likes to have her ears scratched. Sometimes she likes to climb into my bed and snuggle against me while I sleep?" 



Grantaire nodded, mouth suddenly dry. He would like to be in Enjolras' bed, too, he thought. In fact, he knew he'd like to be in his bed, pressed against him, and if he wanted, Enjolras could even scratch him on the ears. 



Hell, Enjolras could touch him anywhere.



"She likes goat's milk and canned tuna," Enjolras smiled, turning red.



"I like those things, too," Grantaire chuckled. A look of guilt flashed across Enjolras face, and Grantaire reassured him. "You can tell her she has to share with me."



As long as he made her share the bed, too. 



"Oh! I have something for you," Enjolras smiled, pulling Grantaire's hand off of his knee. He did his best to smash his disappointment into something small, as Enjolras dug around in his pocket. "My mom made them, and I thought you'd want one. She says they're lucky, but she's also a war cr-" 



"Warrior in the kitchen, yes, you mentioned it," Grantaire supplied as quickly as he could. Enjolras procured a flattened package wrapped in a linen napkin, carefully cradling it in his thin fingers. "What's that?" 



"It's a kolache. This one's full of strawberry preserves, which are my favorite," Enjolras smiled and placed it in Grantaire's lap. 



If his hands lingered for longer than strictly necessary on his thigh, Grantaire wasn't complaining. He licked his lips as he unwrapped it. It was a little squashed, with some filling clinging to the napkin, but still looked very delicious. 



"You sure you want me to have this?" Grantaire asked, gnawing on his lip. "She made it for you."



"And I had two this morning," Enjolras sighed, shaking his head as the bus hit a pothole. "Eat it before you make a mess of your Reaping outfit."



Grantaire, suddenly wanting to follow orders before he said something endlessly embarrassing, shoved the entire thing in his mouth. The part made of bread was fluffy and seemed to disintegrate in his mouth without chewing. It wasn't tesserae grain. The sticky jam on the inside clung to the top of his mouth. It was so sweet, like the refined white sugar his parents bought when they were both working. 



He moaned, "fuck, this might be the best thing I've ever eaten." 



Seeming immensely pleased with himself, Enjolras said, "well, I got permission for you to come for dinner tonight. I'm sure there'll be more." 



Grantaire wanted to say that Enjolras' mother was a saint, or maybe even God herself, but he knew better. Religion wasn't even a thing they did anymore, even if his own mother called his Reaping outfit church clothes and made him pray every night. 



He didn't pray anymore, and it wasn't like he saved her bible. No, he'd been as selective as a 15 year old boy could be as he was going through his family's things before he was evicted. He grabbed 

The Art of War, 

along with some easy to smuggle pamphlets. He burned the rest on the stove, then tossed the ashes into the street.

 




And it wasn't like he chose it for the title. That'd make sense, at least for an angry boy whose family was dead. 



No, he just had memories of his father huddled over the dining room table between shifts, pouring over that book like it held the secrets to the universe. Not that he really seemed to care about Grantaire's existence one way or the other. He was kind more often than not, even when Grantaire would ask what he was reading. 



"You'll come, right?" Enjolras tapped his knee as the bus came to a halt. 



"Yeah, of course," Grantaire agreed. "For food that good, they'd have to drag me away kicking and screaming." He gulped and folded the stained napkin into a tiny square, shoving it into his pocket. 



They might just take him away today. He could be chosen for the games, and his friendship wouldn't even matter. No one in the town would even remember him once he was dead. It'd be like he never existed, and then like his entire family had never been there. 



He tried to quell the sense of panic, but it spilled over into tears. Crying on the Reaping bus was something twelve year olds did, not eighteen year olds facing the gauntlet for the last time. He was making a fool of himself.



"Hey, you're going to be fine," Enjolras said, sounding not the least bit convinced. "We're going to be best friends, so don't worry, okay?" 



Grantaire told himself that friends could hold hands once they got off the bus. They could even stand next to each other as they waited for the Reaping to start, fingers still intertwined. Friends brought each other comfort, at least according to his mother, and Enjolras was endlessly comforting. 



At least in Grantaire's eyes.



"Hey," Enjolras whispered as another busload of kids filed into the audience. He was barely audible, and that's why Grantaire leaned closer. That was the only reason. There was no ulterior motive at play, no desire to wrap Enjolras in a hug so tight that their skin ceased to exist and they became  one horrifying hybrid being. 



"I like you." 



"We're friends," Grantaire chuckled, giving his hand a squeeze as a bird, Jabberyjay or otherwise, nested in a skinny tree. "Friends like each other." 



"I like you more than that," Enjolras said, not daring to speak louder. "You're smart and you make me laugh in class, and I like you." 



Enjolras liked him? Grantaire turned to look at him, still holding his hand. He seemed serious, with his eyebrows knitted together and his jaw clenched shut.



"So you're saying you don't offer all your friends dessert?" Grantaire teased, unwilling to get emotional again in front of the Capital's cameras. 



They ate up footage of District kids crying, and they'd save the clips for commercials throughout the year. Grantaire didn't need his splotchy face displayed on every television in the nation. He didn't need his prospective employers to know that he was so unstable that he cried at the Reaping.



A peacekeeper walked onto the stage, as Enjolras whispered, full of hope, "do you like me?" 



Yes. Of course he did. Had Enjolras ever seen himself? Surely, he had. Maybe not when he was ferociously angry, his nostrils flared and eyes fierce, but he had to know he was the most likeable boy in class. Beside the Game Maker thing, but it was clear that he wasn't into that. 



Enjolras was into forbidden books and bringing Grantaire gifts. He'd gotten strawberry preserves, and he'd shared them. No one had strawberries in District 8. Grantaire had never tasted strawberries, much less seen them in person. They weren't even available at the market. 



"Your escort has been relieved of duty," the peace keeper said into a microphone. There was a sudden wave of hushed questions, then a glare. "I will be drawing the names on behalf of District 8 today. And I will do so in silence." 



Their escort was probably being held prisoner, or her tongue was already gone. Maybe they'd just shot her in the head, or poisoned her, if what she did was truly terrible. Being relieved of duty couldn't be anything good when it came to the Capital. 



Nothing the Capital did was good. 



The girl called was barely four and a half feet tall, and had snot dripping down her face before she even reached the stage. Grantaire hadn't heard her name, he'd been too busy clinging to Enjolras. 



Enjolras who liked him.



Did this mean they were dating? Enjolras gave his hand a light squeeze as the man in the white uniform stuck his hand in a glass bowl filled with scraps of paper. 



They were going to be fine. They'd be bussed home after this, and Grantaire would go with Enjolras to dinner. They'd probably have fresh strawberries, just sitting on the table. That seemed like a rich Capital person thing to do. He bet they even had a TV that showed things other than news. 



"Jean Enjolras," the peacekeeper called out. 



In response, Enjolras pried his hand away, then spun Grantaire so they were facing. It happened so quickly that Grantaire couldn't memorize the softness of Enjolras' lips against his, or the lightheaded feeling it gave him. 



The crowd parted around them as Enjolras pulled away, a sad smile on his face. "I really liked you," he said confidently as he walked toward the stage. "No matter what, I really liked you for a long time." 



Past tense, like he was already dead.



This couldn't be happening. Grantaire finally made a friend and kissed someone, and the Capital was going to rip them apart? The Capital was going to murder the one person in all of 8 that he liked? 



Over his dead body. 



"I volunteer! René Grantaire! I volunteer!" He screamed, grabbing Enjolras' hand and yanking him back into the crowd. "I like you, too," Grantaire whispered into his ear. 



Enjolras seemed like he was about to faint as the boys around them stared. The peacekeeper waited.



"I'll win, okay. Don't worry, I'll win. And your mom can make me dinner then." 



Enjolras nodded, dumbly, unable to respond in any other way. Grantaire clasped him on the shoulder one last time, then waved as he ascended the steps to the stage. 



The absurdity of what he'd just done didn't hit him until the peacekeeper pulled him into a small room. He'd just volunteered to die. He wouldn't have ever had to stand at a Reaping again, if he just let Enjolras go. 



And he didn't even really know Enjolras, did he? They'd only talked two times, really, last night about his books, and then this morning. They were still practically strangers, and Grantaire was willing to die because he'd gotten a pastry? 



It was a fantastic pastry, though.



"You get a three minute goodbye. Who do you want?" The peace keeper asked, helmet still in place.



"Jean Enjolras," Grantaire said without a second thought.



The peacekeeper muttered something about how rude that was to his family, but Grantaire couldn't be bothered to keep up appearances for the sake of a peacekeeper. If he got three minutes, he was going to spend it with whomever he wanted.



"You're a blasted idiot!" Enjolras screeched as the door opened. "What were you thinking! Why are you talking to me and not your mother? Whatever she did to make you run away can't be so bad you decide to not say goodbye!" 



"They're dead. And I wanted to talk to you." 



"You better fucking win," Enjolras spat, snarling. "Are you good with a weapon? Do you have any survival skills? I mean, for fuck's sake Grantaire! What were you thinking?" 



Well, that was an easy one. "That I like you and I didn't want you to die."



"So you'll die instead?" Enjolras barked. "Unbelievable! You're honestly unbelievable!" 



A nervous grin twitched at his lips, because he was, wasn't he? "Yeah, but like, so are you and I like you." 



"You're an imbecile!" Enjolras roared, fists pressed against his legs. "Don't ever go to the Cornucopia," Enjolras hissed, shaking his head. "My dad told me." His Game Maker dad. Grantaire nodded. "Get to shelter, and fucking hide."



"I won't go to the Cornucopia," Grantaire nodded. "And I sleep in an abandoned building. I think I can handle shelter." 



"Eat a bunch," Enjolras shook his head in disgust. "I mean it! Pay attention, this is important." 



Did Enjolras' dad tell him what the games were going to be every year? He must have. Was that why kids with ties to the Capital tended to win? 



"All ears," Grantaire whispered, looking at the open door where the disinterested peacekeeper waited. They didn't seem to be listening. 



"Caloric density," Enjolras snapped, whispering. "Just put on as much weight as you can, and don't touch the lake. Do not get wet." 



"Anything else?" Grantaire asked, trying to imagine what sort of arena he'd be dropped into. Poison? They did poison three years ago, but once, when his mother was small, they did two water arenas back to back; a bog with disease carrying bugs and then an ocean with shark muttations. 



"Be safe, and," Enjolras rang his hands together before throwing them around Grantaire's neck. "Thank you." 



They kissed again and for a brief moment where the world stopped. Grantaire melted into Enjolras' touches. He was perfect, like a statue, or a god. 



"Time to go," the peace keeper said, void of any emotion.



"Sorry, we'll have to postpone dinner," Grantaire grinned. "Tell your mom to make more of those strawberry things." 



"They're called kolaches!" Enjolras shouted as the peacekeeper led him away. "And yeah, come back and I'll feed you whatever you want." 



"Even Patches' milk and tuna?" 



Enjolras rolled his eyes as the peacekeeper pulled him away, but nodded all the same. 



The peacekeeper did not speak to him as he was ushered onto the train. The young girl stared at a basket of purple grapes, crumpled over in an ornate chair, tears streaming down her face freely. She wasn't eating; she was just sitting. 


 


It was a gorgeous cabin, Grantaire noted, looking at the dangling lights. They rattled as the train started to move, glass pieces clinking against each other as the girl let out a choked sob. 


 


"I'll be in my room," the peacekeeper said, walking past both of them. 


 


It was such a waste of money. Grantaire didn't even have a place to sleep with power and heat, and the Capital had trains with chandeliers and antique wooden chairs. They had grapes as decoration. 


 


"I'm Grantaire," he said, settling down at the table. The girl did not acknowledge him as he plucked a grape and stuck it into his mouth. 


 


They were not wax. They were plump, with little seeds that stuck between his teeth. The juice trickled down his chin as he chewed. Grapes were not as good as strawberry kolaches, but they were sweet. He took a handful, and ate quickly, remembering Enjolras' advice. 


 


He needed to put on weight. He forced himself to eat every grape, save for a bunch of seven he left just in case his travelling companion wanted some. Shakily, he held out an outstretched palm, grapes precariously balanced inside, and the girl sneered in disgust. 


 


If she wasn't hungry, he would finish them. His stomach cried in protest when he grabbed a piece of plain bread and stuffed it into his mouth. The girl watched, not daring to speak, as Grantaire forced himself to eat. 


 


He ate until he couldn't bear another bite, then he shoved the heel into his mouth for good measure. The scenery blurred out the window, and Grantaire could feel nausea creeping up his throat as trees blurred together. 


 


It was so green out here. What district were they in? Was this 11? They had to go through 11 to get to the Capital, then to 2, unless the tracks went up to 3 then to 9. 


 


Capital train routes were secrets, so all Grantaire could do was speculate.


 


It sure looked like 11 though. The train seemed to be the only man-made thing in the area. This is where he should have been born. It was everything his mother had told him about, how she used to hike when she lived further away from the city. 


 


There were probably even rabbits in the forest. His grandma had kept rabbits, before the Dark Days. They were for show. They had entire contests to see who had the best rabbits in the state. According to his mother, they'd been states before they'd been Districts.


 


Grantaire allowed himself to be lost in thought as the dense forests gave way to unending rows of fruit trees. There were no workers in the field, presumably watching their own reaping, but he heard that they played audio in the fields during the lead up to the games, and that farmers were required to at least show up for half days. 


 


At least District 8 got time off. 


 


He ate more bread as the orchards thinned into mountains. They were going through 2. It was rugged mountains dotted with occasional heavy machinery. Huge cranes dug into the ground producing thick black smoke that billowed upward.


 


Grantaire snorted to himself as he took another bite. Dirty plumes of smoke might be the last thing he ever saw that reminded him of home. 


 


He'd go home, he told himself. He had to go home. Maybe he was delusional, but he'd promised Enjolras. And it wasn't like Grantaire was in the habit of making promises. 


 


No, if he said he'd do it, then it meant something. Enjolras shared food with him, and gave advice. Good advice, he hoped. He was too uncomfortable for this to be bad advice. 


 


The train zoomed through a tunnel and it was suddenly very bright. The machinery was gone and replaced with a gleaming city. The buildings moved too quickly, and Grantaire felt his stomach lurch. He closed his eyes, placing his head between his knees, waiting for the train to stop. 


 


It'd be bad form to vomit. Their escort didn't seem to care about them one way or another, and it wasn't like they had a mentor to give advice. All he knew was what Enjolras had told him. Put on weight, don't touch the water, don't go to the Cornucopia, and most importantly, come home. 


 


The way to put on weight wasn't by gorging himself then vomiting. He stilled his stomach as the girl let out another strangled cry across the table. 


 


He could have told her what he knew. His bones told him that he ought to, he didn't know, give her some advice, or something. He didn't though, because if he was going to live, she'd die.


 


Everyone one else in the game would have to die. Every last one of them would need to die, even this short waif of a girl who probably wasn't even in high school yet. Did she have a boy she liked? Grantaire looked up, and she wiped her eyes with her sleeve. She spun a brass ring on her finger as Grantaire stared. Was that her trinket? 


 


It had to be. 


 


Unless her family was rich enough to have money to spend on jewelry. Rings were not necessary, not unless it was a wedding. He squinted at the ring, and for a guilty moment wondered if her mother had given it to her. 


 


It could have been a family heirloom meant to be passed onto her for good luck in her marriage. It was a symbol, and this little girl was going to die. She seemed to know that as her dark hair flopped over her face. 


 


Couldn't he do anything for her? At least make her comfortable? 


 


"I like your ring," Grantaire offered, mouth feeling dry. His eyes scanned the table and he fumbled for a swig of juice.


 


"It's mine," she stopped touching it and sat on her hands. Did he seem like someone who would rob a girl who was about to die? 


 


Did she maybe think she'd live? 


 


Did every kid think they'd win? 


 


Grantaire whimpered as he drained his glass. Would the Capital return her ring, or did they have a bunker where they kept all of the trinkets? He didn't have a trinket. He hadn't thought to grab anything unnecessary from the house, and he didn't want to waste money on something like a charm. 


 


He could buy food with that money. 


 


He patted his pockets and a rush of joy overcame him as felt the bulge from the napkin. Carefully, he dug the linen out of his pocket, and smoothed the creases. It was only about a square foot with red smears of jam splattered on the fabric. 


 


Could a napkin be a trinket? Would the Capital even allow that? Napkins were technically useful, and that was expressly forbidden. It wasn't a weapon, though. It didn't seem particularly helpful to Grantaire. 


 


"This is mine," Grantaire smiled, remembering Enjolras' angelic face placing the treat on his lap. 


 


"From your boyfriend?" The girl asked, finally looking at him.


 


"Yeah," Grantaire grinned, even though they weren't technically anything. They had been strangers up until yesterday. He'd been a terrifying student who always knew the correct answer to every question. 


 


But he'd been reading with Grantaire for as long as he brought his books to class. Enjolras probably had opinions on 

Civil Disobedience

, and when Grantaire got home, they could talk about it. 


 


Enjolras was probably more into the books than he was into Grantaire. 


 


Maybe, after the games, he could get more. Surely someone had a Bible, and he could transcribe the good bits, like the Psalms. If they snuck away somewhere private, they could read aloud. 


 


Enjolras' voice was as clear as a bell, unlike his mother's muddled whispers. It was like he didn't even care if the Capital knew.


 


"Time to go," the peacekeeper snapped, hand on their baton. "Move it tributes!" 


 


Move it tributes was a popular phrase in the Capital. That’s all their peacekeeper seemed to say. Maybe they were just a robot with limited speech capacity. That was an idea, peace keepers coming from District 3 instead of the Capital.


 


Stepping off the train was a shock. The whole place was too opulent, like Victor's Village on a grander scale. It was a wet dream of what he imagined Enjolras’ home to be like, but high on Morphling. The buildings were made out of the same concrete as District 8's factory and tiny boxy apartments, but they gleamed. The whole place sparkled. Nothing seemed out of place, and, at least where Grantaire was paraded, nothing seemed in disrepair.


 


Did the Capital not have fires? Did they have the technology to prevent collapsing buildings? It seemed like they kept his home the way it was on purpose. They had flowers in the Capital, and trees that were taller than Enjolras' house. It seemed so wasteful, and so fake. Like real life here was just a propaganda film, with cheery people scurrying around the streets.


 


No one he saw even looked slightly disheveled, and every child had a parent clasping their hand like the District kids were somehow a threat to them. Grantaire never heard of a Capital kid being killed by a tribute, and he was certain that if it ever happened, the beheading would be mandatory viewing. There’d be a book sent to every address in the Districts, talking about a great loss of life, and they’d do book reports on the topic every year. 


 


What did they even make in the Capital? He asked that once, in third grade, and his teacher swatted him with a ruler. The memory blurred around the edges, but he vaguely remembered a young Enjolras claiming they made policy. 


 


The teacher didn't praise him, even though he was technically correct. 


 


Really, no one talked to Enjolras at all. 


 


Grantaire stuffed his hand into his pocket and rubbed the stitching on the napkin. Surely, his mother hadn't hemmed it herself. And Enjolras was garbage with a machine, and would have failed that course if their teacher wasn’t so terrified of the fallout of flunking him.


 


They were escorted into an elevator which on all accounts seemed functional. The peacekeeper still refused to address them, and the girl, whose name he still didn't know, didn't want to speak, either. 


 


He felt woozy as the machinery whirled and they steadily were tugged upward. Every once in a while the whole thing would sputter and shake, like the cord holding them was fraying and would snap at any point. Would they get new tributes from 8 if they died in a freak elevator crash? Did they even have accidents in the capital? Maybe they had the secrets to immortality, and they were purposely keeping everyone else in the dark. 


 


He knew that they had good medicine, he'd seen it used in the games. Kids who would have been dead in his district got speciality salves airdropped from the sky in tiny pinging parachutes, and within hours their burns were cured and the infection was contained. 


 


The Capital couldn't even get Cholera medication to his district in a week. 


 


Couldn't was the wrong word, he realized as the elevator doors opened to a lavish studio draped with all sorts of rich fabrics. He met eyes with a strange mannequin that was all sharp angles, and realized that the Capital just didn't want to send them medicine. If they could make fabric that reflected light and managed to look soft to the touch, then they could send a package of antibiotics. 


 


"I'm going to dress you as quilts!" A man with red eyes squealed. His shoes, which came together in three inch points, clicked against a floor that looked like polished glass.  


 


Quilts? Is that what the residents of the Capital thought they did? Grantaire nodded, because what else was he going to do? The girl he was with mentioned something about quilts being stupid and the peacekeeper unsheathed their baton on reflex. 


 


No, he didn't need to waste energy on this. If their stylist wanted him to be measured and remeasured, then dressed in a patchwork pastel monstrosity, that was fine. He didn't engage in small talk. He didn't even register the stylist and his assistants speaking. 


 


Not until one of them snickered, "that was some kiss, though." 


 


A warm feeling spread from his stomach to the tips of his ears, because it was, wasn’t it? It was obviously a kiss people wrote books about, or immortalized in paints or tiles, or maybe on film. Like people invented spoken language to talk about kisses like that, Grantaire was certain.


 


"He's involved with an Enjolras," the stylist crooned, tying a sash around his waist. "To be young and in love. And that boy is as pretty as his father." 


 


"I can't believe they make Mr. Enjolras put his son's name in the Reaping," the assistant whispered. 


 


The stylist glared in his assistant's direction, adding, "well, he knew the risks when he chose to retire." 


 


Did he really put his son's safety below moving for work? Enjolras could have died and his father could have just stayed in the Capital where it was safe. Grantaire's face turned red and he hoped it looked like embarrassment, not rage.


 


Even though it was pure, unadulterated anger. Grantaire's parents weren't even great people, and they would have moved to the Capital to keep him safe in a heartbeat. And he'd been born under circumstances he could only describe as duress.


 


He caught a glimpse of himself in the mirror and realized he looked incredibly stupid. Quilts was a dumb theme. Why not just dress them in drapes, towels, or shag carpeting. People in his district made most of their clothes by hand, and the stylist was putting him in something tufted. 






“You both look fabulous.” They didn’t but he nodded. The peacekeeper, who still hadn’t even offered a name or let them see their face, pointed toward the elevator.






Were they really expected to get back in that rickety box? 






“The horses this year are white, and you are going to just look stunning,” the assistant cooed, grabbing the chub of the girl's cheek. It pinked up under her ministrations, and the girl petulantly said something about not wanting to be touched. 






She sounded so young. She had a whole family at home, probably, and she’d never see them again. His eyes drifted to her ring, and she sniffled. Was she twelve? Was she so unlucky that she was drafted on her first go around? 






Somehow the elevator was worse on the way down. Grantaire never thought he’d be grateful for the neglect in District 8, but he’d never even been in a building, apartment or factory, where the elevator worked. Sure, a service elevator, but that was different. That was a cage used to move bolts of fabric from one place to another, and he was too adept with his hands to be wasted on jobs that required brute force. 






The whole elevator shook as they reached the first floor, and it felt like his stomach was going to come up through his mouth before the world stabilized beneath him. The stylist and assistants didn’t seem the slightest bit upset by any of this. Was this how elevators were supposed to work?






The streets were full of carriages hitched to white horses when they left the building. Why did they pick white this year? Last year all the horses had been brown, and the year before that every horse had been a different type of breed. Were they trying to signify the purity of the 44th Hunger Games? 






Horses stank up close. Grantaire tried not to breathe through his nose as he stood in the carriage, gripping the bar in front of him with both hands. All he had to do was stand still. He’d seen this montage every year for his entire life. They raced down this road and the whole country saw their faces for the first time. 


 


This is when the people back home would open their betting pools. The payouts were best if you picked on the first night. Grantaire had never heard of anyone making any substantial money, but maybe he just ran in the wrong circles. Surely, betting was a thing in every district, a way to make something so barbaric more appealing. 






Because games were for children, and how could they be cruel? Grantaire realized he was snarling as the horses started to trot. This whole spectacle was just a way for the Capital to justify murder. Just like refusing to send medication to his father was a type of murder. Or how letting a factory owner keep a crumbling building in operation was a type of murder when the damn thing collapsed, everyone stuck in side. 






They probably all suffocated. His mother and sister suffocated and died, and he was being pulled by two white horses, standing next to what he suspected was a preteen, to put on a show for the Capital. Why did the Capital even bother with this shit?






Why not just go into each district and grab two kids at random and just shoot them in the head, point blank. That seemed like it’d be cheaper than all the massive flags and torches spangled on the side of the road. They had electricity here, and it seemed like they never had brown outs. Why did they need torches? For aesthetics? 






His sour look stayed on his face, even after he dismounted the carriage.






This whole scene was disgraceful. The Capital was disgraceful. He didn’t smile when his name was called, nor did he even pretend to acknowledge the cheering crowd. How could any person cheer for 23 kids dying? How could someone be in favor of something like this and not worry about what God, or whomever, would think? 






How could they sleep at night? 






From the stage, everyone seemed like a dot of color. Just a smear of paint, mostly neon. Two seasons ago, at the factory he worked at, he spent his time sewing lime green curtains. They weren’t even nice to look at. No, they hurt his head and surely clashed with every single piece of furniture in the house. 






They must have sold okay, or they else were repurposed into oversized ladies hats. 






To think that the Capital would refurbish anything was laughable. They kept flowers and probably all had indoor cats, just like Enjolras. 






No, Enjolras wasn’t like them. Enjolras liked his books, and had opinions on the Capital that he tried to shout in public. Enjolras was special, and he’d have to be daft not to see it.


 


Maybe Enjolras even thought he was special, too. 


Grantaire remembered thinking he'd be good with an axe. He was not. He spent time in the training facility practicing his swing, like he'd seen on TV, and the slick wood handle kept jumping from his hand.

He was grateful he didn't strike himself in the foot. They'd make him go to the games, even if he maimed himself. Maybe an axe just wasn't the weapon for him. 

So he tried a bow, where he managed to snap the string and break three arrows in half before they even left his hands. 

He never mastered a sword. He missed the training dummy and instead grew dizzy from spinning in circles. He thought he was strong. In gym he always threw the ball the fastest and was good with a bat. They did a unit on wrestling, and he'd taken first place. 

He wasn't, it turned out. The only weapon he had any control over was a dagger, and that was just a heavier seam ripper. His heart sank as he realized that in a fight with any of the careers, he'd die, and presumably quickly. 

If it was quick, he'd be lucky. 

"No one outside of District 1, 2, 4 and 7 knows how to use a weapon," a man with dark hair and dark eyes laughed. He was stout, and seemed familiar, if only just. "I'm Valjean, from 10." 

10? He seemed like an adult. Did everyone from 10 look like that? Grantaire gripped his dagger and looked him over. He wasn't in uniform.

"Grantaire, from 8." 

Valjean chuckled, "oh, we all know who you are." 

"I have to train," Grantaire muttered, choking up on his weapon. 

"Good thing I'm here to train you," Valjean smiled. His face was easy to look at, handsome even. It was a different type of handsome than Enjolras' blinding brilliance, but still pleasant. 

"From 10?" Grantaire rolled his eyes. 

"Yes, I mentor. I won ten years ago." 

He was. When he was in the final two, he tossed the last kid, a career, into the forcefield. The whole thing gave Grantaire nightmares. He'd close his eyes and see the girl from 1 convulsing on the ground as Valjean hovered over her, watching the light leave her eyes. 

But that didn't clear up why he'd be training Grantaire. 

"District 10 not send anyone?" 

Valjean chuckled, then clasped Grantaire on the back. Those same hands killed someone. He could probably kill him right now, if that's what he wanted to do. 

"Between the two of us," Valjean whispered, iron grip keeping Grantaire totally still. "My tributes have a plan, and I think it's a dumb plan." A plan? Grantaire nodded, mouth dry. "They don't want me to bother them, so I might as well be of some use." 

District 10's tributes were sitting on the middle of the floor, crossed legged, whispering to each other. They weren't even trying to train. Neither were any of the other tributes. 

The Careers were watching him talk to Valjean, the four of them bunched together, snickering. They must have seen his attempt at self defense; the axe slipping from his fingers, the sword failing to connect with the dummy.

The others sat on the ground, as a frantic old man, a mentor he didn't recognise, begged them to get up. The man pleaded with a wiry looking girl from 3, who didn't even flick her brown eyes up to acknowledge his presence. The other mentor was trying too, but no one seemed to listen. 

The girl from 8 spun her ring and smiled, looking for the first time at peace. 

"The Bishop might come help you," Valjean said, pointing toward the old man bargaining with the sitting tributes, "once he recognizes they're a lost cause." 

There was a chorus of giggles from the Careers.

A lost cause? Were they not even going to try this year? Did those bloodthirsty kids from Districts 1 and 2 convince them to just refuse to fight? Did they think he could be intimidated?

He couldn't. Grantaire took the dagger in his hand and plunged it into the training dummy's neck. He ripped it down, then twisted it before pulling it back to his side. Offering his beat smile, he made eye contact with one of the boys, and the careers dispersed with some mumbling.

"Don't show them anything you're good at," Valjean hissed, prying the dagger out of Grantaire's hands. "Look, if the rest of the tributes get their way, this year is going to be a nightmare. All you're going to need to do is wait on your pedestal until the bell dings, then run for cover." 

"I'm not going to the Cornucopia," Grantaire was careful to speak quietly as he watched Valjean turn the dagger over in his hands. 

"Good," Valjean seemed pleased with this news. "And don't let the other tributes talk to you. Don't associate with them, and don't join their stupid charade. It's not going to make a difference." 

Valjean pointed toward a series of books and plants displayed on a table. "Do that. Go learn what you can eat and what you can't."

If winning was going to come down to his knowledge of plants, he came from the wrong district. Did the other tributes already know this stuff? Surely in 4, 9, 10 and 11 they knew, and 7 too, if he had to guess. 

Valjean sighed, "look, I don't have to help you at all. I would just rather someone besides 1 or 2 win. If you don't want my advice, don't take it." 

"I want your advice," Grantaire hastily walked toward the plants and started flipping through the books. Lots of full color diagrams and glossy photos. He wondered, briefly, if he'd be able to steal one of these guides and rebind it for later use. 

"Right answer," Valjean smiled.

With a face like his, it was easy to forget he was a murder. He looked so normal, kind even. They didn't seem like deranged drill sergeants, like the Careers. 

The old man, the Bishop, Grantaire remembered Valjean saying, was trying his best to pull one of his tributes off the floor. She wouldn't move, and the man seemed on the brink of tears. 

There were no other mentors, save the four hanging around the Careers, engaging them in hand to hand combat.

"Does no one else have a mentor?" Grantaire asked, flipping through a book about bugs. Eating a bug was not a thrilling idea, but he'd do it if he had to. Nothing red, or blue, or yellow, apparently. If it looked like Capital fashion, it was poisonous. 

"There was a string of suicides," Valjean stepped closer and spoke so softly that Grantaire could hardly hear. "The Bishop and I are all that are left. We do our best to help where we can."

"Charitable of you," Grantaire mumbled, deciding that no matter what, he wouldn't eat a spider. No, even in desperate circumstances there needed to be some hard lines.

"When you win, will you be charitable?" Valjean asked. 

"Do you want me to be?" Grantaire rolled his eyes, but a smile tugged at his lips. "I suppose I'll owe you one." 

"You'll most likely win," Valjean was confident. Grantaire voiced the start of a protest, because he'd seen a Career lob the head straight off a dummy with an axe without batting an eyelash. "No, you will. The Capital loves you. Mr. Enjolras is well respected, and you are on tape kissing his son. Game Masters have honor among each other, and the citizens of the Capital have this fantasy of the Districts falling all over themselves in their honor, which is what you did for that boy." 

So he'd get to live because of Enjolras? He nodded, closing the book in bugs and deciding to work on reading about plants. The photos of flowers were so vibrant, and surely this book was allowed by the Capital. When he got home, when he won, he could buy a copy. It might cost a lot, but he'd have income. 

"So Jean Enjolras is your boyfriend?" Valjean asked, speaking loud enough to be overheard. Grantaire shrugged, because technically he wasn't. Technically they weren't anything. 

Valjean cleared his throat, then spun Grantaire around to face him. "In your interviews, say he is. Talk about that boy the whole time. You're going to get ten minutes to talk, and if you're smart, he's all you'll talk about after paying lip service to your dead family." 

"They died due to Capital negligence," Grantaire spat, snarling.

"Then just say you're going to put up a memorial in the house you're going to share with that boy in Victor's Village," Valjean snapped. "Don't badmouth the Capital while in the Capital. No one can be that stupid." 

"I'm not, okay?" Grantaire whispered. "I won't. I just want to go home." 

"And the Bishop and I will do our best to make that happen. Just make sure you do not move before the signal when you enter the arena. No matter what." 

"Why?" Grantaire asked. He knew that the pedestals were landmines, but he'd never seen one go off. No one had ever purposefully triggered a bomb in the games before. Grantaire looked at the group of kids on the ground, and realized exactly what they were planning. They were going to give up before it even started. "Holy fuck." 

"Yeah, it's not a good plan," Valjean nudged him back to the books. "It's going to be loud, and you need to not be startled off your perch." 

"All of them?"

"That's their plan," Valjean's hand was back on his shoulder, but not firmly. It was more a quiet comfort, just a gentle reassurance that he wasn't alone. "Make sure not to move." 

"Do the Careers know?" Grantaire was unsure if it was audible. 

He flipped through a book, memorizing the patterning of an Oleander. They were not edible. Most flowers it seemed were, not Oleanders. Berries were iffy. He'd never be able to memorize every berry in the Panem, so he resolved not to eat any. It was too risky, even if on the whole he trusted his memory. 

"No," Valjean said as Grantaire examined a diagram of tree bark. 

Grantaire nodded slowly, then closed the book. Would they be startled before the games even started? Would he be the only one left alive after the first 5 minutes? 

The Careers were taking turns climbing up a rope, hooting when someone reached the top, howling when someone's grip failed and they fell onto the mats below. There's no way they could have overheard. 

Valjean stayed with him for the entirety of his training, steering him away from combat and toward survival skills. 

He went back with their escort at night, ate until he was in pain, then repeated it in the morning. By the fifth and final day of training, Grantaire's uniform barely fit.

It turned out he was a good climber, good with knots, and adept at starting fires. He knew that, but Valjean didn't. He was so good with fire that Valjean suspiciously asked, "do you do this kind of thing back home?

"Burn things?" Grantaire chuckled, smothering the fifth one in a row he'd manage to start. "I mean, I cook my own tesserae and things can get a bit smoky with that oil, you know? The heat point is too low for an open flame." 

Valjean looked toward the peacekeepers and the Capital darlings that were watching, then asked, "is there no power in 8?" 

"I don't have power," Grantaire grinned, showing his teeth. "I've got survival skills. It comes with the territory." 

The pleased look on Valjean's face suited him. His eyes crinkled around the edges when he smiled, and his nose wrinkled in a way that was barely noticeable. "Well, what a pleasant surprise. Tributes from 8 are typically like those from 12." 

"Poor?" Grantaire teased, deciding that he didn't need to bother with any more kindling. "Rich kids live with us too, you know. People own those factories." 

"Well, rich kids have poor boyfriends to take their spot," Valjean quipped. "And what I meant is your people are unskilled in matters of combat and survival. They don't learn those things, and the work doesn't transfer into any real strength."

"10 is just full of fighters?" Grantaire scoffed. "What do you even do?" 

"Slaughter animals," Valjean said flatly. "Everyone else has the chance to do hard labor before they're an adult, but not Districts 3, 8 and 12. It's a disadvantage purposefully put into the system to hobble you. You act poorly and the Capital treats you poorly."

No one had ever explained it to Grantaire that way. He knew his district was rebellious. Every so often someone would paint something incendiary on the municipal buildings, calling for riots or unrest. And those peacekeepers were killed, seemingly as a message to the Capital. Their reward was they'd never win the games. They never got the extra food that came as a prize, nor did they get the money to repair their infrastructure. 

Grantaire knew it was all on purpose, on some level, but to hear someone older acknowledge it was jarring.

"Tell me what you're going to say in your interview tonight." 

"I can't wait to win the games and go home and suck face with Enjolras," Grantaire snorted. "I've been looking at Capitol couture, and am already imagining a wedding reminiscent of my time here. I always wanted to be married in neon. It makes a statement. And that statement is, don't eat me, I'm poisonous." Valjean's look was a silent plea, then disappointment. "I was joking. I'm going to tell them how much I love Enjolras and show them my trinket." 

Relief flooded Valjean's face, and he nodded.

"When you go before the judges, tomorrow, don't show them too much. Climb, dangle by your legs, then camouflage yourself. Getting a 6 or 7 is acceptable. Don't let them know you've gotten any better with a weapon from your first day. You'll get sponsors from your connection to Mr. Enjolras, there's no need to put a target on your back." 

Grantaire nodded, committing that to memory. 

"Once my tributes have," Valjean's eyes concealed a flash of hurt, "once it's over, the Bishop and I will work the Capital on your behalf. If you see a parachute, grab it." 

"Thank you. You didn't have to do this." 

"Neither did the Capital," Valjean added bitterly. "If I manage to talk my tributes out of their plan, please don't take joy in killing them." 

People took joy in that? He felt himself go green as Valjean held his hand to Grantaire's neck. "Stab them here, and it'll be quick. If you have to kill, do it humanely. Don't be a monster."

He could do that. 

Valjean removed his hand, then sprang forward and embraced him. "I'll see you next year."

"Yeah," Grantaire agreed, tentatively returning the hug. Valjean was strong, but knowing he couldn't break free didn't induce a panic. He was safe. Valjean had promised to protect him, and he'd gone out of his way to show him the ropes. "I owe you one."

"We all owe someone something," Valjean mused. "It's how we survive." 

And Grantaire was going to survive. He did not show off for the judging. He followed instructions to the letter, then was marched off to his interview.

Nerves set in as he was held backstage, but the Bishop and Valjean smiled at him. When he was ushered on stage, it was too hot for a suit made of quilts, and he immediately started to sweat.

At first all he managed to do was chuckle about Enjolras, and mention a few times how pretty he was. He was. He was gorgeous. 

The crowd seemed to love it though. They cheered whenever he blushed, and cooed an endless stream of oohs and awws as he showed them the stained napkin and recounted their shared breakfast on the bus. 

He embellished just a little, saying they tore it in two, because that seemed like something the Capital would like. He even plaintively explained how Enjolras had given him part of his breakfast because he knew how much Grantaire missed his mother's baking. 

The audience lost their fucking mind, and Grantaire thought to thank his stylist, and wondered aloud if he'd be available for a wedding. 

Not that he was planning a wedding, or that he was willing to be married in such hideous garments, but the Capital liked to feel important, and the more he could make himself seem like one of them, the easier the games would be. If his stylist thought Grantaire worshipped the ground he walked on, maybe his Capital friends would airdrop supplies. 

Valjean gave him a thumbs up as he was escorted off stage, and he nodded, letting the dopey lovesick look fall off his face.

The other tributes, the ones who refused to train, also refused to interview. They just stood there, eyes straight ahead, refusing to put on a show. 

Grantaire didn't know what the punishments for that would be. Could they even do anything to kids who were sentenced to death? There were only five interviews, the Careers discussing their lust, and Grantaire utterly in love with a de facto son of the Capital. 

Grantaire watched the news as he ate that night, and everyone seemed just as enthused as the crowd. There were pictures of his kiss with Enjolras and a giddy interview with his stylist who assured the public that he'd be more than willing to travel to 8 for a wedding. 

He was all over the news all night. Hopefully Enjolras understood why he lied. Enjolras was smart; they read the same books. A lot of this was manipulation, not brute force. He needed to be well liked, and Enjolras had social capital to spare. 

When the scores from judging came back, Grantaire somehow managed a 7, with the Careers getting from 8-10 and everyone else getting a 1. Did they just refuse to participate? The newscasters changed their narrative to everyone loving an underdog. Grantaire forced himself to get to sleep, and the last thing he saw was his first kiss with Enjolras.


The peacekeeper didn’t pay him any mind the next morning. He hovered around behind the girl, like she was dangerous, staring as she picked at her breakfast. Did he think she was smuggling contraband? She was a child, what could she even do to him? 






Grantaire, for the first time since he got on the train, did not eat to nausea. He ate until he was full, then pushed his plate away. He needed to be lithe for the games. In two hours he’d presumably be running for his life. 






Hopefully, at least.






The peacekeeper escorted them both to an aircraft carrier, and presumably said something that Grantaire couldn’t make out over the roar of the engines. It never seemed this loud in the films they were shown in class. Everything the Capital said could be heard clearly and the planes sounded like persistent bugs, not like this. 






He sat in his seat, surrounded by the tributes that refused to talk. A Career, a boy with lily white skin and dazzling blonde hair smirked, nudging a girl from 5. “I’m gonna kill you,” he slurred as a medic walked between them, stabbing them in the arm. 






She didn’t take the bait, but she did flinch when she was jabbed. All of the tributes reacted, and Grantaire nervously waited for his turn. 






It did not feel like a vaccine. No, he’d got those regularly, and while not pleasant, they weren’t actually painful. The boy from 12 yelped in pain, and the Careers laughed, like they hadn’t reacted when it was their turn. 






Grantaire did his best to stay completely stone faced. The tributes from 9 intertwined their hands, wordlessly, as the plane started to descend. Were all of the tributes holding hands? Grantaire craned his head as best he could without being obvious, and he found that, yes, they were. 






Were they really going to do this? They weren’t even going to try? Didn’t they have people back home they wanted to see? Were they that afraid of the Careers? 






His stylist climbed onto the ship and pulled him down the steps, leading him into a grey concrete bunker. This looked like home. They obviously weren’t keeping up the grounds here, because it’s not like they ever photographed the outside of the games. 






No, the game's true location was a guarded secret. They didn’t tell anyone who didn’t need to know. They could have been in The Wilds, or 13. If the tributes knew where they were, they might try to escape. 






 They’d know where they were, once. The Capital corrected their mistake, and maybe being flown on a plane to a discrete location was an over correction, but it served their purposes. 






Just like Grantaire was going to serve them. 






He felt a wave of nausea and looked at his stylist who seemed chipper. Did he know that Grantaire might die? He’d probably die. He wouldn’t get out of this. No matter how much the Capital loved him, or how high his score was, he wasn’t special. He wasn’t trained for this, not like the others. If they sent him home at all, they’d send him in a casket. 






Would Enjolras even bury him? 






“You’re going to do great,” the stylist reassured him as they climbed down dimly lit steps. Was this a bomb shelter? 8 had a few, and in seventh grade, they’d toured one. He remembered thinking it was exciting back then. He’d spent that same period fascinated with explosions. Someone in 11 had derailed a train, and he’d seen a clip of the fiery wreckage, all twisted metal and black smoke. 






People had died, peacekeepers, specifically. All of the other tributes, they were going to choose to die like that. Did they not remember the pictures? The video? The sounds of screaming? 






“The uniforms are terry cloth,” the stylist remarked, “strange.” 






Once Grantaire was inside, a door slammed shut. Was this it? He lost his breakfast right there on the concrete as he saw the black uniform. His eggs and cherries sat in a puddle on the floor as his stylist tutted. 






“You aren’t the first,” he reassured. Grantaire nodded as he peeled his clothes off and struggled to get dressed. 






It was essentially a towel. Why would they have them wear that in the area? What kind of arena was this? 






“You can suck humidity out of it, if you get dehydrated.”






“Yeah,” he nodded, pulling at the sleeves. 


 


Head to toe terry was absurd. They felt like itchy pajamas, like flannel gone wrong. The socks tickled his ankles, but at least they had boots. One year the tributes went in barefoot, and the winner had a foot amputated due to infection when they got home. 






“Your trinket!”






Grantaire smiled and nodded. His trinket. His gift from Enjolras, or the remains of it. He pulled it out of his discarded pant pocket, and tucked it inside his top, next to his heart. His stylist swooned as he climbed into the pneumatic glass tube in front of him. 






They’d send back at least the napkin to Enjolras. At the very least, the Capital would return his item to him. Grantaire stared as the stylist waved goodbye, and even managed a half-hearted wave. 






“I’ll see you at the wedding!”






That made Grantaire smile, even though there was no way in hell he’d let that man design a piece of clothing for him, ever again. Quilts, he snickered as the tube wobbled a bit, then shot him straight upward. 






He did his best to stay upright. He needed to focus. What did he know? Don’t move before the bell. Whatever he did, don’t move before the bell. Just stand still. Run away from the Cornucopia. Don’t touch the lake. Don’t get wet. Find shelter and hide. 


 


The arena was bright, like the inside of a Capital run hospital. Was this an urban setting? He shivered. All he could see was white at first, then as his eyes adjusted, and his muscles contracted against his will, he realized it was snow. 






They sent them to the tundra in bath towels. 






Did Enjolras know exactly what was going to happen? Is that why he was so adamant about Grantaire eating? So he didn’t freeze to death. 






He surveyed the landscape as best he could without turning his head. The Cornucopia was bright red and the only fleck of color on the map. There were no trees, no plants, no animals, and no bugs. 


 


He spent an entire day memorizing poisonous plants for nothing. 






Directly below their podiums was blue, with little ripples of white underneath. He tried to think of what that could possibly be, and why it wasn’t snow like everything else as the announcer started to count. 






“Ten.” 






Was it some sort of trap?






“Nine.” 






It was all around him in every direction.






“Eight.” 






He’d have to touch whatever the blue ground was if he wanted to leave his pedestal. 






“Seven.” 






Something shimmered beneath the surface and Grantaire held his breath. 






“Six.” 






That was a fish. 






“Five” 






This lake was frozen. 






“Four.” 






He wasn’t supposed to interact with the lake.






“Three.” 






Grantaire knew it was going to happen, but he was still caught off guard. A series of explosions rang through the arena, and for a moment it wasn’t so cold. They were all in quick succession, and he ducked down, fingers touching the frozen ground, too scared to look up. 






“Two.” 






Another explosion.






“One.” 






And then, finally cracking. There was a buzzer, and he looked up to see brilliant smudges of red on hunks of floating blue, as the ice beneath him cracked. All of the tributes who had planned to jump off, did. 






He was going to be sick again. 






Where were the careers? He stood up, unsteady on his feet as the cold crept back in, and saw that one of the Careers had exploded, presumably having jumped in surprise, while the other three had run onto the ice, toward the Cornucopia.






And the ice, weakened by the explosions, hadn’t supported their weight. They were all in the water, flailing. They weren’t swimming and he knew that they knew how. He was a lousy swimmer, with a little experience in a ditch near the school, but these tributes probably trained in a pool. Water was a common enough theme, they would have been prepared.






All of the ice had split apart, and Grantaire couldn’t tell how deep it was by him, if he was going to run for the shore. If he got his clothing wet, he’d die. He’d need to strip, or something, if he had any shot at all.






Cautiously, he rolled up his sleeves and dipped his hand in as the three remaining tributes struggled to keep their heads above water. It was cold, but the water stopped before his shoulder. 






Taking off his boots as the wind whirled felt wrong. He knew he was right. He knew that if his socks got wet, he’d have no chance. If he was careful, he could roll up his pants as high as they’d go, then carry his boots and socks toward the shore. He could use his socks to dry off, and then he could hope that his boots were warm enough. 






24 black parkas hung from the Cornucopia, fluttering back and forth, taunting him. If he could reach them, he'd be warm.  All he had to do was swim the length, then dry himself off with a few of the spares.






But the Careers weren’t even moving. They were trained swimmers, and they couldn't do it, so why would he succeed?


 


He cautiously peeled off his socks, cursing how cold the ground was, and counted two heads still above the water. The remaining two bobbed up and down, arms stiff against their sides. They were at least 50 feet from dry land. 






As he rolled up his pants, he heard the cannons. Counting was a nice enough distraction as he forced himself into the water and toward the land. He gasped against his will as the icy water crept up his legs. His steady breathing turned to panting and he forced himself to go forward. 






Just count the cannons and walk out of the water. By the time he touched the snow, chilled to the bone, they stopped.






He was in the final three. 






One of his socks got him dry. He shoved his shoes back on then hastily pulled his pants down, and turned back toward the lake. Both of the tributes seemed unable to move. They weren’t drowning, not like the first one. 






They’d die from exposure, just like Enjolras had warned. 






He discarded his wet sock, then shoved the dry one into his clothing, in case he needed it later. The careers could still get a parachute, something to get them out of the water and on dry land, so he needed to move. 






But not run. 






He had skimmed through the survival book about exposure, at Valjean’s existence, and he recalled the page he read that explained that in the cold he needed to be out of the wind. Wind chill could drop the temperature another 20 degrees. That’s why he slept in an abandoned building and not in an empty field. 


 


Also if he was out in the open, he’d be subjected to constant peacekeeper harassment. Would he still be harassed when he got home? Surely winning a game would exempt him from all of their bullshit. Victors had to be allowed certain privileges. 






He’d never have to sew curtains again. He’d never have to sew at all, if he didn’t want to. Grantaire grinned and then shivered. Shelter, he reminded himself as he watched the two remaining tributes continue to bob like little blonde buoys.  






He walked around the edge of the lake until his back was to the wind, careful to keep himself from sweating. If he got wet, he’d have to toss his whole outfit, and it’d go downhill from there. Why were they wearing towels? Why would anyone dress them like that for a fight in the snow? 






Another cannon went off and Grantaire jumped, turning back toward the lake. The hovercraft wasn’t even pulling kids out yet. He shoved his hands underneath his armpits, and forced himself to keep going.






They hadn’t even given them gloves. Did the Capital expect to send a fingerless Victor on tour? Was that their plan? It seemed like this year the plan had barely been thought through. Why didn’t they test the ice against explosions? Was the ice supposed to collapse, but later in the games? 






No, he needed to find shelter. He didn’t need to do anything else. If the Capital wanted to create new and amusing ways to kill children, that was their prerogative, but he didn’t need to get distracted from the task at hand. 







Finally, he found a snow bank he could crouch behind. Careful not to let any of his clothing touch the snow, he made himself as compact as possible. Immediately it felt warmer. Not warm, not by any stretch of his imagination, but more bearable. 






When he left 8, it had been so hot that the building he slept in was uncomfortable, even at night. Would it still be hot when he got home? He hoped so. He hoped it never got cold again. 






Covering his head with his arms as best he could, he waited. He waited and waited. His body started to feel pinpricks of pain, and then, he stumbled forward, into the snow, convulsing against his will. He could feel the terry cloth absorb the snow his body heat, or what was left of it, was melting, but he couldn’t get up. He couldn’t get his limbs to move. 






After what could have been two days, another cannon went off. 






It occurred to him that maybe he had died and he was just a popsicle haunting the arena. He touched the tracker in his arm, fingers stiff and red, and then sighed. No, they’d know if he was truly dead. They had all of his biometrics, right at their fingers. 






He closed his eyes and hoped that death wouldn’t always feel so cold.


 


"I present to you the winner of the 44th Hunger Games, René Grantaire from District 8.”



“This is going to go poorly,” Valjean grabbed the Bishop by the shoulder as they filed into their watching room. Only the most elite of the Capitol got to watch with previous Victors. They paid thousands of dollars for the chance to rub elbows, and this game, judging by what he’d heard from all of the Tributes, was going to be a blow out. 






“Pray to God for their salvation.” 






No. There had to be something more he could do than simply praying. The Bishop always insisted that they just pray. As if the people of Panem hadn’t prayed when the war first broke out, like the citizens today didn’t constantly pray for the games to be stopped. 






“All we can do is help people who want our help.” 






Infuriating. The entire exchange made his blood boil as the Mentors from Districts 1 and 2 settled in with their favorite people. Valjean didn’t particularly care for any of them, and he had a hunch that the Bishop agreed. Not that he ever said anything disparaging, at least in public. 






And they only met at these events, under the watchful eye of the Capital. 






The room was abuzz on bets for the Games. The boy from District 2 was favored, he’d seen the stats on the news and heard it from the bookies that roamed around the training ground, hopeful to get some sort of scoop. 






Anything to make a buck. Even murder. Maybe especially murder. 






“When we go home,” the Bishop mumbled, sinking into his seat beside Valjean, “it’s your duty to keep your District calm. There will be outrage, and you need to do your best to keep the people calm.” 






“I do not perform miracles,” he huffed. 10 was starving, and this year's Tesserae had weevils. He couldn’t keep their anger in check, even if he brought home a Victor. And, as the games started, showing all of their blank faces against a white background, he knew that there was no chance of that. 


 


How could the tributes be so stupid? Nothing was going to come from this. The Careers would just tear each other to pieces, and like always, someone from 1 or 2 would win. Even if Grantaire, that string bean of a boy, was the Capital’s darling, he didn’t have a real shot. 






He could die thinking he did, though. It wouldn’t help to have him any more nervous than he already was. He hadn’t mastered swordsman's ship, or a bow and arrow, and while survival skills were great, they only went so far when push came to shove. 






“Just do your best,” the Bishop said as they got their first glimpses of the arena.






“This year is an arctic theme,” the announcer billowed. Arctic themed, hah. It was just frozen, all white snow, beside the Cornucopia which this year was red instead of the classic black. “Inside it’s a frigid -15 with the wind chill, so they’ll need to find shelter, fast. Beneath the tributes is a frozen lake, and beyond that the map is covered in fresh powdery snow, just like the Holidays.”






“I do love the solstice,” a tall woman with turquoise hair giggled, grabbing a champagne flute. “It looks so festive.” 






The countdown started and the camera panned from tribute to tribute. They weren’t dressed for the snow, not in the slightest. No gloves, no head coverings, just 24 children shivering in the elements. The wind blew little speckles of snow, and then Valjean caught sight of the coats.






Their winter gear was at the Cornucopia. If Grantaire didn’t go and secure a coat, he’d die, and he’d told Grantaire to immediately run away. “I’ve made a grave mistake.” 






Maybe one of the other tributes would abandon their plan, and decide to make a break for it. The Careers tended to be overly confident, and when left to fight among each other, the few remaining of the pack might just die of exposure. 






Grantaire knew how to make fire, but there weren’t even any trees. Maybe he could get a sponsor to send in firewood, or mittens, or something. There had to be at least a chance. 








Boom! Boom! Boom! Boom! 







The ladies in the viewing room shrieked as the tributes stepped off their posts at the count of three. They were showing a close up of the boy from 7, a short and stout kid with messy orange hair and green eyes, stepped forward






The camera zoomed out, and 

Boom! 

The girl from 1, frightened by the explosions, tripped forward and triggered her own mine. Frantically, he scanned the remaining tributes. The boy from 1, both from 2, and then Grantaire from 8. 






“Through this holy anointing may the Lord in his love and mercy help you with the grace of the Holy Spirit. May the Lord who frees you from sin save you and raise you up,” the Bishop prayed, moving his hand against his chest. He did that after every death, like a nervous tic. 






It just made Valjean want to drink. It was customary to bow his head in reverence for the dead, so he halfheartedly did so. He stood up, swiped a drink from the table, and looked at the peacekeeper at the corner of the room. They could talk, couldn’t they? Javert was allowed to talk, even if he never had anything interesting to say. 






He grabbed an extra drink, then crossed the room and parked himself beside him. “Are you thirsty?” 






“I’m working,” Javert, voice camouflaged by the speaker in his suit, snapped. “You should be working, too.” The buzzer to signal the start of the games went off and Valjean took a swig. He could drink two drinks. This seemed like it’d be a very alcohol heavy game. 






“For the love of the Capital!”


 


The Bishop prayed again, but Valjean didn’t look until he heard Javert gasp. If Javert was shaken, it must have been bad. “Is it the boy from 8?” 






“No,” Javert whispered, tapping his helmet to remove the visor. Cautiously, Valjean looked at the screen to see the careers in water, one struggling to stay above water, drowning, with the others just bobbing, unable to move. 






Grantaire stood on his pedestal, shivering. The cameraman, having a little sense, fixated on him as he rolled up his uniform to his shoulder, and plunged his hand in the water. 






“Don’t get wet,” Javert huffed, rubbing his hand over his face. “Just sit there, you idiot. Just sit there and let them drown.” He touched solid ground, then, without putting his uniform back into place, he took off his shoes and socks, then rolled his pants as high as they would go. “What are you doing! Get dressed!” 






Valjean finished his drink, nodding. He offered the second cup to Javert, who huffed, but slammed it, nonetheless. “Go bargain for him. I know you were training him.” 






“We’re not supposed to do that on behalf of other districts,” Valjean said mechanically. “I would never break the law.” 






“Not you,” Javert rolled his eyes then put his visor back into place. “You’d never get me caught up in some illegal nonsense. You’d never risk our lives for the sake of one lovestruck teenager.” 






“And you,” Valjean chuckled, turning toward a nauseated bunch of Capital residents, “you’ve never made any bad decisions for love.” 






Softly, visor down again, Javert whispered, “only every damned day I’m with you.” 






“You keep me in line, and the Capital appreciates your valiant efforts.” 






Javert was a fine man, and in a different time, he might have even been a great man. He’d been his escort for the last five years, and he was strict, but not unnecessarily cruel. He didn’t relish in the job that needed to be done; he simply did as he was told. Whether it was because he believed in the orders or if the Capital had some sort of sway over him, Valjean couldn’t say. 






“It appears we’ll all be invited to a wedding,” Valjean smoozed, sinking next to a very flustered man poking at a steak. “I bet Mr. Enjolras will be there himself.” 






“Won’t that be lovely,” a woman smiled as on the screen Grantaire used one of his socks to dry his body, before redressing himself. “He’s so exotic looking, but Jean Enjolras is as pretty as a picture.”



 



Taking another drink from the table, a champagne flute, he nodded, miming a toast. Prettiness meant paleness, and he couldn’t help but feel it as a jab at himself. Javert seemed to have heard, and he shook his head, helmet moving ever so slightly. Javert was handsome, and Valjean would be sure to tell him, when he got the chance. 






He’d get cursed out for it, but it’d be worth it. He’d never tell the Capital about their trysts, because he’d be moved. Sure, Javert was selfless, doing what he could for his government, but Valjean was so clearly his. 






Any rational escort would have bargained for a safer district, like 9. No one ever rioted there, not that he heard. District 10 was wild, all piss and vinegar, and he’d passed muster, he could go anywhere he wanted. 






Sending him a sidelong glance, Valjean smiled, because Javert was where he wished to be.


 


“I think their wedding will be delightful,” Valjean smiled, half watching Grantaire trudge through the snow. He didn’t need to go anywhere. He just needed to wait. How were any of the other tributes still alive? “They’re both suited by Capital fashions.” 






“Indeed,” a woman grinned, not even watching the games. 






No one was watching. A cannon went off, and Valjean casually listened to some gossip as Grantaire ducked behind a snow drift. Finally, Grantaire's stupid decision to get wet made sense. He'd found shelter, out of the wind. He'd read the books, maybe even memorized them from the way he tucked his hands in his armpits. 


 


"Well, it seems that this year's games will be short," the announcer coughed as a few of the people in the room sighed. 


 


Grantaire tumbled forward, and then the camera panned to the girl from 2 as she finally sank underneath the water. 


 


There was a cannon, then another shot of Grantaire, shivering. "I present to you the winner of the 44th Hunger Games, René Grantaire from District 8.


 


It worked out fine, he decided as half hearted cheers were muttered by the spectators. He kissed his goodbyes, lying to the women and saying he'd miss their sparkling company, and retreated to Javert. 


 


"You got what you wanted," Javert huffed, helmet on. "Happy?" 


 


"Time spent with you is precious, so yes," Valjean teased, gently running his hand on the small of Javert's back. "Let's go face the fallout at home." 




Javert grunted in agreement, but didn't shy away from his touch. He never did.








“Don’t move,” a peacekeeper instructed Grantaire as a metal cage dropped from the sky, lowered on a thick metal chain. 






It was just like an elevator. A service elevator, and it looked nearly as safe as the ones back home. They wouldn’t let him fall out of the sky, would they? 






Where even was he? This didn’t look like a factory. Did he get a new job? Was he being fired? 






He’d been fired before, and it was always awful. Sure, getting a new job was easy enough, but there was always a week or so gap, where he just didn’t have any money, then another two weeks before his next paycheck hit. 






“Well, that was a shitshow,” someone remarked as the peacekeeper jumped toward Grantaire. He flinched, covering his head. He couldn’t get up, and there was a peacekeeper, in full uniform, coming toward him. 






“I said don’t move,” the peacekeeper repeated. Quickly his clothing was cut away, and a metal blanket was wrapped around his entire body, crinkling as the peacekeeper tucked it underneath him. 


 


He’d never known a peace keeper to be helpful. He frowned, wondering if he was having some sort of fever dream. It explained why he felt so awful, if nothing else.


 


“But yeah, a shitshow is one way to describe a thirty minute game.” 






Game? 






Fuck, Grantaire had just won the Hunger Games. He chuckled to himself, then giggled about the snow. They’d tried to freeze him to death and it only took thirty minute for everyone else to die. He thought it had been days. He thought he died. Grantaire shivered as his muscles protested the cold. The air seemed to be warming, but maybe it was just the blanket. 






For a fraction of a second, he wished he had that awful quilt costume his stylist cobbled together. It was warm, even if it was terrible to look at. That dumb stylist even put batting inside. Grantaire chuckled, wondering why any rational person would wear something insulated in the summer. Was everyone in the Capital so stupid? 






“Can we move him?” 






“No, his body temp needs to stabilize,” the peacekeeper shook their head, helmet reflecting all the light thrown up by the snow. “He’s at 94. If the Capital wants a victor, they better warm this place up.”






“Rodger.” 






Who was Rodger? Grantaire snorted and the helmet shook. He imagined the person beneath all that garb was frowning. Wasn’t Grantaire a lackluster Victor to be saddled with? He didn’t even kill anyone.






“The arrhythmia has stopped.”  






“Send me some hot water bottles and we’ll leave this ice box.” 






Sarcastically, a disembodied voice replied, “aye aye.” There was the pinging of a parachute, a soft dinging noise as a silver glint floated downward. There weren't even sponsors in the game. They didn’t even have time to get Grantaire some mittens, or flint, or something. 






The peacekeeper was graceless as they shoved a hot water bottle underneath each arm, wedging them in his armpits. The red rubber was the same shade as the Cornucopia. And the same color as all the tributes who had chosen exploding over death by exposure.






Another bottle was placed between his legs, and he was instructed to curl around a fourth, keeping it on his solar plexus. Thawing out was painful as the snow started to melt around him. Little pinpricks turned into fervent stabbing as the peace keeper checked a screen. 






“He’s at 97.5,” the peace keeper shouted, looking up toward the hovercraft. “Ask the medic if I can move him.” 






Grantaire couldn’t hear anything over the rotor, another thing that was not like the movies. There must have been a speaker in the helmet, a nifty fact that Grantaire hadn’t known before. It made sense that they’d have some sort of telecommunication system. If his school, with it’s crumbling drywall, had a system to page, peacekeepers had something better.







The air was definitely warmer. The white hills turned a slushy brown as the peacekeeper took the water bottles and placed them with the remnants of his clothes. They’d really sent them in towels. That was their plan.






Towels. 






He was rewrapped in the crinkly blanket, then the peace keeper, arms too stiff feeling to be arms, picked him up. They climbed into the cage and it slowly, painfully slowly, inched toward the open cargo hold of the plane. 






When he was a child, he got really sick once, before he started school, and his mother had held him like this. He remembered the sweat sticking to his forehead and the sticky, achy feeling that accompanied the rattling in his throat. She’d sang to him, fretting at his bedside, and she’d even gone to the doctor and came back without her wedding ring. 






He hadn’t remembered that part before. Had she pawned it for him? Tears welled in his eyes as he remembered her giving him medicine, and how bitter it had tasted. How much did she have to pay for that? Was it the same cost as a diamond ring? 






Did she look at him and feel like he was worth that? She must have. She loved him, and that’s why she stayed up all night, wiping his brow. That’s why she read him the Bible, but only the good parts. She insisted that he only needed to know the nice parts, that the rest of the world was bad enough without the book of Job.






He didn’t even know what that story was about. Maybe she would have told him, when he was older. 






An actual doctor wrapped him in a real blanket as soon as they were in the plane. He couldn’t hear anything over the noise, but everyone else had a headset. They were pointing; to him, to a lone hospital bed with crisp white sheets, to a pile of metallic blankets, to a white line that jumped up and down on a monitor, and finally to a bag of liquid. 






The doctor, dressed in blue, mouthed something, and Grantaire nodded, despite being completely in the dark. His body hurt and he was sure that the Capital wouldn’t want a dead Victor. 






He won, didn’t he? 






Unless this too was part of the games. Was he supposed to kill them? 






He sprang forward, hands in fists, and tried to deck the nearest person in the face. Of course there’d been no way the games would have been so easy. Never. No, they were giving him a false sense of security, and these people milling about the plane, they were the other tributes. 






A needle stuck him in the thigh and he fought harder. None of the other tributes seemed to mind, not with their medical masks covering their face. Did the Cornucopia have those? Was there something toxic in the air? Some sort of pathogen? 






They pinned him down, and he fought as best he could. He promised he’d win, and he wasn’t going to renege on a promise without any effort. No, he was going to try. When someone put their hand near his mouth, he bit as hard as he could. A tang of blood filled his mouth, and he tried to lock his jaw into place. 






That’d get infected. If he could get away, then that tribute could die of infection, or maybe from infighting. There was an alliance around him as his eyes started to sag shut. He screamed as a new set of hands forced his jaw open. 






He could feel blood trickling down his chin toward his neck, and pooling on his collarbones. Was this how Enjolras would see him last? He choked back a sob, while one of the masked tributes grabbed his hand and forced it into a restraint. 







What kind of game was this? Sleep kept calling him, but he knew, if he went under, he’d never come back up. He couldn’t pass out in the presence of other tributes, they’d have his skin. He whispered a quick prayer to God, just in case, and finally lost himself to the roar of machinery. 






He woke up screaming. 






He never should have gone to sleep. He shouted and tried to swing his arms in front of his face, but he was pinned. He opened his eyes next, cursing, and then slowly stopped struggling. 






This was a hospital. 






He took a deep breath, then coughed from the strain. Why did it hurt to breathe? What happened? Was he caught in a building collapse? That explained the aching and the medical care. The ceiling was white, as were the walls, and he decided, at once, that he hated that color. It made him sick, just to see it. 






“Grantaire!” Someone shouted. 






“Yeah?” He questioned, trying to turn his head to see where the sound was coming from. “What happened? Is the factory alright? Did everyone make it out?” 






“You won.” 






He won? His brain sputtered and he tried again to remember what happened. Was there a lotto? His dad told him not to play those, but he never listened. He never listened to anyone, according to him. Grantaire thought that, at least to an extent, it was a compliment. He kept illegal books, just for knowledge’s sake, he said. 






Authority was something to be questioned. Not out loud, of course. They didn’t want him to die, but they wanted him to think. 


 


“You won the Hunger Games,” the familiar voice clarified. A warm hand touched Grantaire’s face and he gasped. 


 


He competed in the Hunger Games? 


 


Shit. He competed in the games. He volunteered for Enjolras. That was Enjolras.


 


Fuck. 


 


Fuck. 


 


"We don't have to get married, Valjean just told me to talk about you, in case I needed sponsors. We don't even have to be boyfriends-" 


 

"We do," Enjolras laughed, but it was wet. That wasn’t what his laugh was supposed to sound like. “We are. Boyfriends, I mean. I told my mother we’re a thing.” “Well, I like you,” Grantaire snorted, watching a clear bag of liquid drip into a tube that presumably went into his arm. What were they giving him? Was that IV why he was so foggy? He remembered the cold, then the explosions, then the ice. The announcer called his name, and then a peacekeeper took him away.And he bit them. “Fuck,” he whispered, struggling against the restraints. “I’m going to the gallows. That’s why they have me tied down. Fuck.” He kept trying to break free as Enjolras placed his hand on Grantaire’s shoulder, holding him in place. He could see his blonde hair and blue eyes. His skin was paler, like he hadn’t bothered with the spray tan since Grantaire was gone, and the bags under his eyes were the color of the grapes on the train. “It’s not fair you’re so hot, even like this.” Another wet laugh. “I bit a peacekeeper.” “I doubt they do anything about it,” Enjolras reassured him. Was he stupid? Of course they’d do something about it. The Capital never let anything go. “Calm down. None of it happened on the broadcast, and my father insists that Victors act erratically when they’re airlifted out. It’s normal.” Grantaire’s face must have said elsewise, because Enjolras continued. “You’re home, in 8, and the peacekeepers who brought you back talked with him. He would have told me if they were going to kill you. They joked,” Enjolras’ face scrunched up in disgust, “they joked about you fighting at the end. Saying it was the most action they saw all day and it was a shame it wasn’t on camera.” Oh. “Let’s talk about something else,” Enjolras said, running a hand through his hair before leaving Grantaire’s field of vision. He tensed, let out a mewl, then reached blindly for him, still restrained. “Hey, I’m here. I’m here. They want you to sleep, so if you’re tired, go back to bed. We can talk later, okay.” “Keep talking,” Grantaire rasped, squeezing his eyes shut. “About what?” Literally anything. No, scratch that. Anything that wouldn’t make them enemies of the state. Anything normal. Preferably something fun, like trees or birds, or his stupid indoor cat, Panther or whatever it’s name was.“Talk about that cat that eats goats and tuna milk.” Enjolras snorted. “Tunas aren’t mammals. Only mammals produce milk. You couldn’t milk a tuna, even if you wanted to.” “You don’t even know what I want to do, or could do,” Grantaire chuckled. “I bet Peaches could. If it used all the energy it saves from not catching mice, it could domesticate tuna for milk.” “No, Patches is far too lazy to do the manual labor involved with a hatchery. She’d starve to death-” Grantaire’s breath hitched and his heart slammed into his chest. “No, you’re alright. No one is dying. You’re not dying, and neither is Patches.” “Are you?” Grantaire asked, feeling increasingly dizzy. “No, of course not,” Enjolras reiterated. “Let’s talk about Patches. So you’ll know what to expect when you meet her. She likes goat's milk, but she likes it warm. She’s spoiled.” “I wanna be spoiled,” Grantaire slurred. “If she gets to share your bed, then I should too. It’s only fair that Precious stops being so greedy.” Enjolras laughed, the first real laugh of their conversation. Grantaire smirked, trying to remember what he said that made the boy so happy. He couldn’t remember, but Enjolras kept laughing. 



“Well, whatever I said, I meant it,” Grantaire muttered as Enjolras grabbed his hand. “Your hands are still soft. Are your lips?” 






“I will kiss you stupid once you’re well,” Enjolras reassured him, running his thumb over Grantaire’s knuckles. “My mom is already planning our wedding.” 






“No quilts,” Grantaire whispered, feeling his will to fight sleep fading into the background. “Like, that stylist isn’t allowed to make shit for it. I looked hideous.” 






“You looked handsome.” 






“You must be really gone on me if you think I’m sexy in pastels.” 






The conversation lulled and Enjolras traced shapes with his thumb. First circles, then triangles, and then, and maybe Grantaire was wrong, but it felt like little hearts were being pressed into his knuckles.  






“Yeah.” 





“Tell me how you met.” 






“We met at school,” Enjolras scoffed as Grantaire gawked at the food on the table. There was chicken, but the whole bird. An entire chicken for three people; it felt like such a waste. 






“We sit by each other,” Grantaire mumbled, still feeling a bit fuzzy. 


 


Mrs. Enjolras had signed him out of the hospital, assuring the staff that Grantaire could stay with them for the night. Someone, a peacekeeper, it was always a peacekeeper, handed him a key to the first house on the left in Victor’s Village. When he asked if Enjolras could stay with him, his mother cooed something about young love, but didn’t say anything one way or another. 






Mr. Enjolras left on a train, something about important Capital business, before Grantaire was even awake. Quietly, Enjolras had whispered something into Grantaire’s ear about riots and demonstrations and the last Game Maker’s execution.






Enjolras’ mother giggled, like a schoolgirl, then scooped a pile of green beans onto Grantaire’s plate. “Your father and I met in school.” 






“I’m aware,” Enjolras grumbled, staring at his empty plate. “I don’t think Grantaire feels well enough to talk.” 






“Only to Princess,” Grantaire snickered as his plate was filled. They both stared at him, and Grantaire frowned. “The cat?”






“Patches,” Enjolras snorted. “And yeah, you can see Patches, once we eat.” 






“Do I have to share with her?” 






Mrs. Enjolras squealed, “oh, isn’t this lovely! First this boy makes my napkins couture, and now you two are so charming! I will have to ring all my friends. They wouldn’t believe my good luck if you hadn’t been in the games.” 






Lovely? Grantaire could think of a hundred other ways to describe the situation. Fucking bullshit came to mind first, but was followed by a fluke, war crimes, and then traumatic. He didn’t think any of what he had experienced was lovely, even if Enjolras was holding his hand under the table. 






He easily would have never touched Enjolras for his entire life if that meant he wouldn’t have to almost freeze to death and watch 23 children die. As charming and handsome as Enjolras was, and however indebted he felt in return. 






“Your son could have died,” Grantaire quipped, before he thought better of himself. “I could have died. Lot of people did die.” 






His mother placed one last hunk of meat on Grantaire’s plate, then muttered, “glad to know Enjolras has chosen a mate who is as unable to see the silver lining as he is.” 






“What?” Enjolras scoffed, loading up his own plate. “He could have died!” 






“But he didn’t. He’s fine and your wedding will be televised by the Capital. You’ll be set just perfectly to become mayor. Marrying a Victor is only going to help your case.” 






Wow, that was a lot to take in at once. Grantaire turned to Enjolras who snarled like an angry animal. His face was red, as red as those kids' blood, and Grantaire looked away toward some awful neon curtains. 


 


“I don’t want to be mayor.” 






“Then rise the ranks of the peacekeepers. The peacekeeper academy sent you a summons.” 






Enjolras would be a terrible peacekeeper. Grantaire tried to remember if he ever fought with his mom like this. He remembered squabbles about his grades, and warnings not to paint dicks on the side of buildings in spray paint, but nothing so intense. 






“I made those,” Grantaire said, pointing at the green mess hanging from her windows. “They look very nice in your home.” They didn’t. They looked like snot from someone who had the flu. But talking about neon was better than listening to them fight.


 


“Oh,” she said, smiling again. “Thank you, that’s very sweet of you to say.” 






“They are the worst curtains I’ve ever seen,” Enjolras snapped. “Everything the Capital commissions is absolute drivel. The Capital is full of murders, and you, running their factory, you are enabling war crimes.” 






There was a soft sigh as she started to eat, and Grantaire felt almost sorry for her. She was enabling them, but it wasn’t like if she stepped aside no one would do it. Thousands of people had come to see the tributes talk, and even more had come for the parade. They liked the games; they liked the Capital. 






“He’ll grow out of it. I swear. There’s no need to turn him in for this kind of thing. You know how teenagers get, don’t you?” 






“We are the same age!” Enjolras screamed, pushing his plate away. “I can’t. I can’t eat with you. I can’t stay here with you. The whole time the game was on, you reassured me that there were other boys, better boys, that I could date girls!” Enjolras chuckled like that bit about girls was particularly funny before dropping his voice to a lament. “You thought I could date girls. You don’t even know me. I’ve talked about Grantaire for years, and you thought I could just move on if I watched him die.” 






Years? Grantaire turned to face him and winced at his tears. Sure, Enjolras was charming and gorgeous, but Grantaire hadn’t even really been aware of him as his own person before last week. Maybe he’d gotten off to his face, but that was purely aesthetic.






He never dreamed they’d have anything in common. 






“We can go stay at my house,” Grantaire offered, pulling their hands apart to wipe away a stray tear. “We don’t have to do this, if it’s too hard.” 






Enjolras opened his mouth, like he was going to protest. He looked at his mother, then at his plate, and finally toward the curtains. When his eyes settled back on Grantaire’s face, he simply nodded. 


 


"He's just raw," Grantaire reassured Mrs. Enjolras. "He'll cool off once we spend some time together." Enjolras looked ready to say something cutting, so Grantaire gently added, "love, we'll talk about this in the morning. Once you've got some rest." 


 


"Love?" Enjolras mouthed, hanging his head. "Don't call me that." 


 


"Okay," Grantaire nodded, offering a smile. "Pack a bag, and we'll go. I'll talk with your mother." 


 


"He's so brash," Mrs. Enjolras complained, stabbing a green bean with a fork that was made of genuine silver. "I don't know how you stand him." 


 


Because he was brilliant? Because he was the only person, boy or otherwise, that had ever taken an interest in Grantaire at all? Because Enjolras watched him read 

The Art of War

 in class for three years and didn’t tell anyone? 






Not that he could tell her that. No. He wasn’t sure what she wanted him to say, or if he was supposed to say anything. Maybe that was just one last dig at Enjolras before they left, just so he heard how little she thought of him. Instead of commenting, Grantaire just smiled. 






“I grabbed all your stuff,” Enjolras appeared in the doorway, two overstuffed duffle bags thrown over his shoulders. He sagged to the left, like the weight was more than he could handle. 






It wasn’t until Mrs. Enjolras sighed, letting her silverware clatter against her china, that Grantaire realized the bags were red. Was red Enjolras’ favorite color? He had a red jacket, red shoes, red bags, and who knew what else. 






Would he give up red, if Grantaire needed him to? Could he ask his boyfriend to never wear red again? 






“We’re leaving,” Enjolras announced. 






Mealy mouthed, Grantaire reassured her that, “it was very nice to meet you.”


 


Lying to people from the Capital grew increasingly easier with practice. He rose from her fancy wooden chairs and gave her a curt bow, and a smile, like she was a sponsor he needed to win over. Was he going to spend the rest of his life this manipulative? 






Was he always this way? Did he manipulate Enjolras into liking him? He must have. Enjolras, dressed in red with his sunken eyes and pale skin, couldn’t actually like him. Grantaire had forced his hands by taking his place in the games, and what was just a little crush was now a committed relationship.






He was a monster, for all of it. 






“Let’s go.” 






Grantaire stumbled out of the house, eyes bleary as his chest tightened. It was hard to breathe, but he couldn’t stop walking. No, he’d been told to walk, and he was going to fucking walk. He’d freeze to death if he didn’t listen. Enjolras said don’t touch the lake, don’t get wet, and he’d done both.






“I’m so sorry,” Grantaire blubbered. He stayed ten steps behind, too afraid to get any closer to the blur of red that was Enjolras. There had been so much red, too much red. How could anyone even like something so vicious? Red was universally a bad sign. 






“She’s a bitch,” Enjolras shrugged, bags moving with his shoulders. “They’ve been like this my whole life. I’m used to it.” 






Oh, Grantaire blinked a few times, then ran a sleeve over his eyes. He’d been thinking about the games, the blood, the cold, and that wasn’t what was happening. “We just had dinner with your mom.” 






“We didn’t eat, so I wouldn’t call it dinner.” Enjolras sounded disappointed, but like it was expected. Of course he’d failed to follow simple instructions. Enjolras cheated, something very illegal, and Grantaire didn’t even make good use of his risk.






“I got wet,” Grantaire whispered, deciding to stare at the tree outside of Enjolras’ home. It was pretty, with little purple blossoms and green leaves. It maybe was more like a bush, barely as tall as Grantaire, but it was nice. 






He wasn’t in the games if he was seeing color. All there had been was red and white, and a little blue. Green was a sign he was somewhere else. 






“Oh,” Enjolras whispered, suddenly going still. He dropped both bags to the ground with a thunk. “Of course that’s what you’re thinking about.” 






“I didn’t mean to,” Grantaire mumbled. “I don’t want to think about it.” 






“I’m not mad at you.” 






“You should be. I almost died. I couldn’t follow simple instructions, and I almost fucking died!”  Grantaire wasn’t sure why he was screaming, but he felt like he had to. “I touched the lake! I got wet! I used you to get the Capital to like me! I ate and ate and ate, and it didn’t even fucking matter! I almost died!” 






Strong arms wrapped around his shoulder and a shock of blonde hair appeared right below his chin. He’d never noticed that Enjolras was short, but he was, wasn’t he. The water would have been up to his waist. That arena would have killed him. 






“Let’s get you settled, okay?” Enjolras’ voice echoed against Grantaire’s collarbone. “I’ll check the house for bugs, and we can figure everything else out in the morning.” 






“Neon bugs are poisonous,” Grantaire said, remembering all the books Valjean had forced him to read. He laughed, then admitted, “I was prepared to eat bugs, but I decided I’d starve before I ate a spider. A man has to have limits.” 






Blonde hair bounced up and down and tickled Grantaire’s nose, “yeah, we all need limits.” 






“You’re going to stay with me, right?” Grantaire snickered, still thinking of spiders. “I need you to stay with me.” 






“If that’s what you need.” 






No, that was the wrong way to put it. “I need you to want to stay with me.” 






“I do,” Enjolras unwrapped his arms then added, mournfully, “my father doesn’t believe I can reject an order to attend the peacekeeper academy. The Capital wants me to be a Game Maker, for it to be a family legacy. He’s going to make the next game.” 






“Because that Game Maker died?” Grantaire whispered. “They told me it only took thirty minutes.” 






Enjolras nodded, then grimaced. “10 and 3 are protesting, and 6 burned an aircraft carrier, with peacekeepers inside. It's not on the news, but my father said."






Other Districts protested? 8 was normally the district to pick the first fight with the Capital, but he’d never heard of them doing something so dumb. “Here?” 






“Someone tried to set fire to mom’s factory, but she didn’t realize. I caught them dumping bottles of rubbing alcohol onto the machines,” Grantaire held his breath and furrowed his brow. “I just pulled the fire alarm and told her something started smoking. I’m not,” Enjolras pursed his lips, grabbing both bags off the ground, “I’m not torn up that the factory is out of commission for a few weeks.” 






“But how will those peacekeepers look their best,” Grantaire grinned, hesitantly grabbing for the bags. 






Enjolras swatted his hand then started to walk again. “No, you’re hurt. I can carry two bags for five minutes.”


 


"I'm not hurt." 


 


Enjolras scoffed, but didn't entertain that with a response. They walked silently toward Victor's Village. There were a few other occupied houses behind the same gate as Enjolras'. Or Enjolras' family's house, because Enjolras was going to live with him in Victor's Village. He said he would, five minutes ago. 


 


A small ruddy faced child pressed their face against a bay window, then squealed. Grantaire jumped, in spite of himself. He'd seen scarier things than an unattended preschooler at night. The door swung open, and the child, not older than six, stumbled onto the lawn. 


 


"Can we play?" The kid asked, tripping over themselves to get to Enjolras. "TV is over." 


 


"Not tonight, Jean," Enjolras sighed, not bothering to even look down at the kid. "Go inside." 


 


"Je-han," the kid pouted, looking at the ground. "My name is Jehan and I'm hungry." 


 


"Well, I don't have anything for you tonight," Enjolras snapped, turning from a walk to a jog. 


 


"Mom and Dad are gone." The child put their hands on their hips, frowning. "You shouldn't be mean to me." 


 


"Because your family owns some factories?" Enjolras turned back, snarling. Jehan nodded, though they didn’t seem to understand why.


 


Jehan seemed a lot like Enjolras. Entitled, but also unaware that actions affected other people. Unaware that people, regular people, were scared. Grantaire felt a pang of regret. This was just a kid, even if they were a rich kid. 


 


"Did you grab my tesserae?" 


 


"I grabbed everything I could find," the edge fell away from his voice. "We don't have to cook for Jehan. He needs to go back home."


 


"My mom and dad are in the Capital." 


 


And they left him? Grantaire crouched down, hands touching the soft grass. This kid was maybe a kindergartener, just barely in grade school. "Who's watching you?" 


 


"I am," Jehan smiled, tucking his auburn hair behind his ear. It was as long as Enjolras', and he looked decidedly feminine with the softness of his features, but maybe it was the garish magenta tank top. "My last nanny held my head underwater in the bathtub, so now I watch myself." 


 


"For fuck's sake," Grantaire sighed, forcing himself to stand upright. "We can't just leave him." 


 


"We can," Enjolras argued, walking toward the gate again. "If Jehan's parents wanted him to eat, they would have arranged something." 


 


No, Grantaire was going to be a better person than that. Valjean had been and it had saved Grantaire’s life. He’d promised to be charitable, even if it felt like bullshit in the moment.


 


"I'll make frybread, as long as you have my food." 


 


"What is that?" They asked in unison, because of course rich kids didn't take tesserae. They ate chicken and strawberries, and kids like Grantaire sold their safety for a little oil and grain and were told to figure it out. 


 


"I'm only supposed to trust the Enjolras'," Jehan said, wearily squinting. "You're from the TV." 


 


"Yeah, he almost died three days ago, and you're bothering us." 


 


Jehan's bottom lip quivered, "but my mom says we're friends. No one else wants to be my friend." 


 


"Because your parents kill people!" Enjolras screamed. "That's why people don't like us!" 


 


"They kill people?" Jehan's eyes were glassy with tears as Grantaire frantically looked around, just to make sure no one was watching. 


 


"Yes," Enjolras was the first to cry. "Everyone who made those pants for your family, they died. Your mom and dad didn't make sure the factory was safe, so they died." 


 


Oh fuck. Jehan was a Prouvaire. Grantaire gritted his teeth, and for a shameful second he considered retracting his offer of dinner. They owned half the factories in town and killed his family. He didn't have to do anything for this kid. He could have taken him by the neck, like Valjean taught him, and watched him bleed out, right there in front of his nice house. 






His family didn’t have the luxury of dying quickly.


 


Jehan shook his head, rubbing his eyes with his little fists, then fell to the ground, sniffling. Grantaire pushed away his violent thoughts, horrified he'd even considered doing something terrible to a child. He wasn't a monster, and he wasn't going to let the Capital make him one.


 


"Let's go eat," Grantaire sighed, holding out a hand for Jehan. "I'll make us dinner. It's okay." 


 


Jehan looked at Enjolras, who had managed to keep his sobbing quiet, then at Grantaire. "Enjolras doesn't like me." 


 


"Nah, he likes you," Grantaire reassured him, enjoying the sticky heat of the summer. "He doesn't know it yet, because he's sad, but he likes you." 


 


"I don't-" 


 


"You're not going to take your issues out on preschooler," Grantaire cut him off. "If I can eat with a Prouvaire, then you can too." 


 


"I'm in first grade," Jehan smiled, taking his hand. With a little yank, Jehan was on his feet and glued to Grantaire's leg as they started to walk. "Why aren't you on the TV anymore?" 


 


"Because he won the Hunger Games and got to come home. All those other kids died." 


 


Jehan blinked, then looked up, eyes glistening. "That was real? My mom said it was pretend." 


 


"Big shock, your mom lied," Enjolras was probably rolling his eyes. His parents must have lied to him a lot. 


 


"Everyone's mom lies," Grantaire reassured them both. "My mom used to lie to me. It's normal." 


 


"I bet she lied about normal shit," Enjolras cursed and Grantaire winced. It wasn't good manners to curse in front of a little kid. Second grade wasn't old enough to hear stuff like this. "Our parents are murderers. They're criminals. Your mom just said things like eat your broccoli or your teeth will fall out." 


 


"Never had broccoli," Grantaire laughed. 


 


"Lucky," Jehan giggled. "Is frybread a vegetable? I don't like vegetables." 


 


"If you're actually hungry, you'll eat it." God, Enjolras was dreadful with children. Grantaire snorted, because it was comical how abysmal he was at comfort. 


 


"Nah, it's not a vegetable. I'll make you something better tomorrow though, okay? I'll get things for breakfast from the market." 


 


"I love the market!" Jehan squealed as they entered Victor's Village. "I'm not usually allowed to go, but there's so much stuff."


 


There were lamps lit, but it still was spooky. No one had ever lived here. Did they light it up just for him or had it always been like this? Were they wasting all that power, just for him?


 


"No one in 8 has ever won," Grantaire whispered as he walked up a cobblestone path to his new house. "I won." 


 


"Yeah," Enjolras smiled, face illuminated by the porch light. "You said you would." 


 


The key fit easily, and the door didn't stick as it swung into an entryway. The house was furnished, obviously by someone from the Capital. It was so bright inside, all clashing colors and sharp angles. 


 


"It's so pretty!" Jehan raced inside. "Your couch is the color of my shirt! This is my favorite color!" 


 


Enjolras dropped their bags to the ground. then opened his mouth, surely about to say something cruel. Without a second thought, Grantaire kissed him, hard. The door stayed open as Jehan squealed, commenting that the table was the orangest orange he ever saw.


 


"His parents left him alone, just be nice," he whispered, pressing his lips against Enjolras' cheek. "He doesn't know any better." 


 


"Anyone with eyes knows that the inside of this house is hideous," Enjolras snickered, standing on his tiptoes to give Grantaire another peck. "How can he not know?" He asked, the laugh gone.  


 


"You brought a tracker to show and tell," Grantaire shrugged. Enjolras' already pale face became a shade whiter. "You didn’t know, and it’s not like I'm mad anymore."


 


"But you were?" Enjolras asked, dropping back onto his heels. "You must have thought-" 


 


He leaned against Enjolras' ear, nipped him a few times, then whispered, "I thought you'd have my family murdered. I was wrong. It’s okay." 


 


Enjolras jerked away, frowning. His eyes were saucers as Jehan screamed about the lines on the carpet. "You took my place in the games. Why?" 


 


"Because," Grantaire said, not wanting to say that it was because he was promised dinner. It wasn't just that. "We like the same things." 


 


"You're the boy he told me about," Jehan giggled, racing back into the entryway. "He said he loves you and you read books together. Sometimes Enjolras reads me books, too, when he’s not in a bad mood. He wants to kiss your face, he told me." 


 


Enjolras’ expression soured as he blushed. “Let’s just make dinner.” 






Grantaire could handle that. Jehan weaved around his feet as he tried to close the door, going on and on about how pretty the house was. If Grantaire got his way, he’d replace every piece of furniture, or at the very least reupholster the whole mess. That’d be an easy job, and would give him something to do. 






Everything from his past life, from before, was in a bag not even as long as a park bench. His books were all there, and his spare clothes, and then of course, his tesserae and his pan. His mother had a whole set of copper pots, but Grantaire had the good sense to sell those when she died. 






He wasn’t used to cooking for company. Enjolras and Jehan both hovered above him, watching as he used a fork, which came with the house, along with new plates and new everything, to whisk the thick grain with the oil. Once he beat it to the right consistency, he spooned dollops into the sizzling pan and flipped them once they started to bubble. 






“Are we having pancakes for dinner?” Jehan asked, standing on his toes and using his fingers as leverage. Enjolras grunted, then elbowed Grantaire in the side. It was a plea to send Jehan home, and he knew that, but he couldn’t in good faith send him back to an empty house. 






And maybe, a small part of him wasn’t ready to talk alone with Enjolras. Why had he done it? Why? He could have died. Was he stupid? He was. He was failing high school. Could the school even fail him if he won the games? Surely they’d have to give him a diploma now, even if he didn’t earn it.






He didn’t really earn that win, either.






“Pancakes?”






“Sort of,” Grantaire pulled himself back to the present and eyed a chair at the table which was, as promised, orange. He had enough time to pull one over and help Jehan up, so he could see properly. That’s how his mom had always done it, when he wanted to hang around the kitchen. His sister had shooed him off, because he was a bother. 






And he was, wasn’t he? He flipped the bread, dragged it to a plate, then repeated the process until he was out of dough and the pile threatened to topple. He’d made too much for the three of them, and he wasn’t even hungry. 






He had a fridge and it would keep. 







“It smells funny,” Jehan mused as he scrambled toward the table. Enjolras clearly was trying not to say anything, even though his thoughts were written on his face. 






Grantaire shrugged as he dragged the plate over. His table had candles, and a decorative bowl in the same shade of green as the curtains he made. “Yeah, the oil’s bad. Happens sometimes.” 






“They give you food that’s bad?” Enjolras scoffed as Grantaire passed them each a piece. “You sign up for this and you add your name to the Reaping, and sometimes it’s expired? Why would anyone do that? How is it worth it?” 







Wordlessly, he ripped a corner off his bread and stuffed it into his mouth. It tasted like he remembered, too dense with a rancid note from the oil. It was better than before, because at least he didn’t burn it on an open fire. 






Jehan, who must have been truly hungry, ate an entire piece in the time it took for Enjolras to choke down one bite. It wasn’t terrible, but it wasn’t whatever Enjolras gave him before the Reaping. That had been a magical pastry, imbued with the feelings of a boy who liked him. 






“It's good,” Jehan mumbled, looking at the pile of bread. He didn’t ask for another piece, maybe out of respect, but also maybe because it was an acquired taste. When he started to pick up crumbs from his plate with his fingers, Grantaire handed him another.






“No one can like this,” Enjolras grimaced, tearing it into little bits. “Is this what everyone eats? Is this normal?” 






“It’s not strange. You have to process the grain again if you want to put it into a loaf, and the oil is always a gamble.” 






“And most kids take tesserae?” 






Most? Grantaire didn’t know every kid in the district. “I mean, a lot? I don’t know. It’s food and eating is better than not eating.” 






Enjolras nodded, forcing himself to swallow more. They ate in silence, and when Jehan finished his second piece, he went for a third and polished it off. On the principle of the matter, Grantaire ate all of his, even though he lost interest. He didn’t want to save half of one, but it didn’t feel right to toss it. 






“And I feed my cat milk and tuna,” Enjolras whispered, “and you eat this.” 







“And in the Capital I was given so much food that I couldn’t finish it all.” 






“My mom and dad have been in the Capital for two weeks,” Jehan kept looking at the food. “They want to move back. I can’t though. I have to stay here.” 






“Two weeks!” Enjolras hit the table with both hands and the dishes rattled. “Are you fucking kidding?” 






“No, they went to watch what was on the TV. Mama wants to make dresses for the Capital, and dad wants her to be happy,” Jehan sighed a dreamy sigh and put his elbows on the table, leaning forward. “They love each other a whole lot.” 






It looked like Enjolras was formulating a thought, and Grantaire decided that no, whatever he had to say did not need to be said tonight, not to a child. “That’s really great. Do you want to sleep at your house? I can walk you back.” 






“Can I take some for tomorrow?” Jehan asked, not looking at either of them. “Just one or two?” 






Of course he could. Grantaire gave a quick nod, then grabbed three pieces, since the kid appeared to be starving, “For tomorrow.” 






“I’ll unpack,” Enjolras whispered, pushing away his plate. He hardly ate any of it. 






Jehan didn’t complain as Grantaire led him out the door. They didn’t talk for the whole walk, but they kept bumping into each other, then shaking their heads in apology. Jehan let himself into his empty house with a wave and a thank you so soft it was almost inaudible. 






The walk back was the first time he’d been alone since before the Games. It was at least warm, bordering on hot. The humidity made him feel sticky, but that wasn’t a danger, not here. He was fast, but that was so he could help Enjolras unpack. He could stand his own company. 






He was in District 8, and the only thing that could hurt him here was peacekeepers, and he’d be given a wide berth as long as he didn’t break any laws in front of them. He was safe. Enjolras was safe, too. 






He was panting when he got back inside. Did he run back? He must have, he thought, rubbing his sleeve over his forehead. It was okay to sweat. Physical exertion was allowed, even good for him; endorphins or some shit.


 


“I’m sorry about-” 






“Please not tonight,” Grantaire sighed, following Enjolras’ voice through the house. 


 


There were so many doors. His apartments had been open concept type things, with a door on his parents room, his shared room, and then the bathroom. He had worked in factories smaller than his house, or that were at least similar in size. 






Enjolras was reclined in a king size bed, flipping through 

Civil Disobedience

. He opened his mouth to say something and Grantaire gently tapped his ear before perching on the side of the bed. 


 


The whole spread was red, just like those tributes had been, at the end. He shivered, rubbing his arms as the fan above them cooled his skin. If he just climbed under the blankets and closed his eyes, maybe he’d feel better in the morning.






He’d wanted to share a bed with Enjolras, right? This was what he asked for, and here it was, in all its domestic splendor, and it didn’t make him feel any better. If he could just get warm, then it’d be enjoyable. If he could relax, for half a minute, then he’d see this for the gift it was; a cute boy in his bed reading a forbidden book. 






Turning to his side, he studied Enjolras’ face. His lips were pursed as he scanned the text, his eyes narrowed. Did he need glasses? Maybe he’d left his at home in their rush to get away. Occasionally he’d smile, just barely, before going back to reading. 






“Do you want me to-” 






“No,” Grantaire croaked, shifting a little closer. He wasn’t sure what Enjolras was going to say, but he wasn’t interested. He wasn’t interested in anything but forcing himself to sleep. “Later, okay? 


 


He nodded, flipping through the book. He must have read it four times by the time Grantaire finally started to feel sleepy. He could hear, just barely, Enjolras whispering about a, “more perfect and glorious state, which also I have imagined, but not yet anywhere seen.”
