Title: The Thorns In Your Head
Work ID: 32844121
Author: Javerts_high_heeled_boots
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: valvert - Freeform, Buddy Cops AU, Crime AU, Modern Era, Angst, Hurt/Comfort, Hurt No Comfort, Fluff, Explicit Language, graphic description of violence, Gun Violence, Murder, Attempted Murder, Implied/Referenced Suicide, Past Child Abuse, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder - PTSD, Autistic Javert, Romani Javert, Trans Javert, Trans Male Character, Transphobia, Homophobia, valjean is a dork, protective valjean, protective Javert, Grumpy Javert (Les Misérables), Idiots in Love
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 2/?

Summary:
After weeks of working on a case with little to no progress, Javert turns to his husband for help. He knows that he can’t get Valjean directly involved, but if he can have some back up, then maybe he’ll be able to get a full nights sleep along with the rest of Paris

Work text:


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


 Twelve weeks, no progress. Not even a little.

“You know, that’s really bad for your lungs.”
He’d heard that a million times before, mostly from Jean; he didn’t care much, but this was just an annoying time to hear it. Gazing up from his desk, Javert saw Chabouillet holding a stack of papers.
“You sound like my husband.”
“You said you’d cut back on the smocking.”
“I only do it when I’m stressed,” mumbled the younger, snapping his lighter shut and putting away his unlit cigarette. “What’s up?”
“Conference room, ten minutes.”
“Thanks for that detailed explanation.”
“Hey, lose the attitude; it’s not going to help you.”

 The conference room was a mess. Papers were splayed all over the table, it reeked of coffee, and it was filled with exhausted officers; one of them was actually asleep. Somehow.

“Welcome to another day of hell,” started Carissa, a young officer put in charge of the meeting. Once everyone was paying attention, she turned the screen on. The image of a young woman with her chest cut open was flashed at them.
“Jesus,” groaned Danner, another officer, covering his eyes. “You couldn’t have gave a warning? I just ate.”
“Sorry you can’t handle some blood.”
“Yeah, ‘some’ blood.”

Chabouillet, who stood next to Carissa with a stern look of authority on his face, cleared his throat.
“Focus, please.”

The next photo was of a car (presumably the victims). The drivers seat was covered in blood, and the passengers window had two bullet holes in it.

“Oh, that’s just lovely,” grumbled Danner.

God, this kid never shut up.

“This is the car of Melissa Bernard,” interrupted Chabouillet, prompting Danner to close his kith before he could say anything else. “She was found yesterday outside of her car with stab wounds to the abdomen and chest, one of which was a clean cut right up.”

“Do we have any motives,” asked another officer, Valee.
“Non as of now. We do know, however, that this is the third victim of similar circumstances.”
“That means we have a serial killer,” chimed in Carissa, flipping to another slide that compared the victims. All of them had two things in common: the gouge up from their stomach to their chest, and wide open eyes.
“Is there anything that they all have in common,” asked Javert, shifting in his chair.
“None that we can figure out. Different races, genders, ages…nothing seems to connect them.”
“Did they know each other?”
“Bernard and Smith were distant cousins, but according to the families, that was only discovered a month ago.”
“Could it be one of them? A family member?”
“We’re looking into that right now.”
“And has anyone confessed anything? They were killed four weeks apart, surely someone in the family has mentioned something suspicious.”
“Javert on top of the case,” smirked Danner, nudging his shoulder. Javert grimaced, leaning away.
“Don’t touch me.”

“What about their social lives,” added Danner, pretending as if he never attempted to be playful. “Any connections there?”
“None.”
“Really? Work, clubbing, anything?”
“Nothing so far.”
“What about the first victim? Anything connecting him with the rest?”
“Like I said, no.”
“Damn, Carissa; no need to get feisty.”
“Would you shut up,” spat Javert, turning to face the younger. Danner’s eyes widened, a smirk on his face.
“Woah, calm down Javy.”
“That’s not my name, Danner.”
“I’m only messing around! What, you on your period or something?”
Javert cringed.
“That’s invasive and disgusting.”
“Look, I’m just trying to lighten the mood.”
“And that’s how you do it? By being annoying and gross?”

“Gentlemen,” urged Chabouillet, foot taping impatiently.
“Sorry, sir,” apologized Javert, turning back to the front of the room. He heard Danner chuckle. God, this guy was going to get it one day.

“I’m splitting you up into pairs. Half of you will be on the streets, and the rest of you will be here talking to family and friends of the victims. Don’t expect to be going home early today, we’ve got a long day ahead of us. Javert, Danner; you two are going to head downtown to Smith’s house.”
“Ayy, best bros,” teased Danner, once again bumping Javert’s arm.
“I said don’t do that,” hissed Javert, slapping his hand away.
“Hey, c’mon,” fussed the younger, flicking the inspector on the temple.
“Ow! What the fuck?!”
“Javert, Danner-“
“I’m just messing around, man.”
“Well do it somewhere else- stop touching me, asshole-“
“Officers-“
“Calm down, man. I’m just having some fun!”
“Go have fun doing something else!”
“Like what?”
“I don’t know, just leave me out of it!”
“Jeez, how long has it been since you slept? Your acting like a baby.”
“Stop. Talking. To. Me.”
“Gentlemen! Enough!”
Chabouillet slammed his fist down on the table. At that, both men stopped bickering and turned their attention forward. The perfect had his eyebrows furrowed and a scowl on his lips.
“Sorry, sir,” mumbled Javert, making sure to give Danner one last kick under the chair. 

This was going to be a lovely day.

And that’s a wrap! Hope you enjoyed chapter 1! Danner gets better, don’t worry :)

Javert goes home for the night and rants to Valjean, who’s just happy to have his husband home for the night

Chapter 2! Poor Javert hates his coworkers, and Valjean just wants to cuddle him :( (also if you wants better reference, Javert is 5’4. He’s small.)TW: explicit language, drinking


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


The rest of the day felt like watching paint dry. Danner had insisted on blasting some annoying song in the car, and he spent the entire time flirting with the victims sister. The sister! How absurd!

“Welcome home.”
Javert grunted, heading straight to the kitchen and grabbing the biggest glass he could. He climbed ontop of the counter and reached for a bottle of wine. Valjean stood but the entrance to the room, leaning against the wooden door frame.
“How was your day?”
He watched as Javert filled the glass to the brim and took a swig.
“That bad?”
“Unbelievable.”
“Oh, dear…”

Javert walked toward the living room, plopping down on the couch. Valjean sat next to him, reading the younger’s body language before determining it was ok to put an arm around him. The Inspector melted into his touch almost instantly.

“Do you want to talk about it,” whispered Valjean, pressing a light kiss into his husband’s hair.
“I want to punch that asshole in the face is what I want to do.”
“Danner?”
“Who else would it be?”
Jean chuckled, his chest rumbling. Javert’s heart fluttered.

They’d been together for ten years, married for three- and yet Jean still managed to give him butterflies. Javert gazed up, eyes meeting Valjean’s.

“I’m sorry you have to deal with him,” cooed Jean, a hand coming to comb through his husband’s long hair “What did he do today?”
“Well, for starters, he refused to stop touching me this morning; said he was just ‘messing around’ and ‘trying to lighten the mood’. Then, when we went to the victims house to search for evidence, he spent the whole time flirting with the sister! The grieving sister! I ought to report him, the little-“

He mumbled the rest of the sentence, burying his cheek against Valjean’s chest. Jean continued to stroke his hair, his unmoving hand resting on Javert’s waist. He had managed to take the glass from his hands while they laid back, knowing that being hungover in the morning wouldn’t make anything better in the slightest.
After about an hour of ranting, Javert finally stopped talking. He felt a bit better. Just a bit.

“Sounds like an eventful day.”
“You wouldn’t believe it.”
“Did you at least get a lunch break?”
“Spent most of it working.”
“Matthieu-“
“What? We’ve made no progress in this case, which has now moved from murderer or serial killer level shit!”
“Serial killer?”
“Three victims, that classifies a serial killer. That’s aside the point, what I’m trying to say is that it’s been twelve weeks and we’ve made no progress! I mean, you’d think that by now we’d have something!”
“I know, but starving yourself isn’t going to-“
“‘Isn’t going to help’, I know; but come on! I might as well be working as much as I can! I feel like I’m the only one there taking this seriously!”
“You do this every time you get out on a big case.”
“Do what?”
“Work to much!”
Javert moved away a bit, staring at Valjean.
“…This is a serial killer.”
“I know that, and if you want to focus, you have to take care of yourself! I mean, working while starving and sleep deprived is just going to be worse!”
“Oh, please,” grumbled the younger, allowing Valjean to coax his head back down. He inhaled deeply, eyes closing in frustration and annoyance. At least Jean was warm, which made him feel a bit better.

He hadn’t slept peacefully in a long time.

“I just…want to do my job,” admitted Javert, hand coming to rest against Valjean’s chest near his own cheek. He could fall asleep here.
“I know that, dear; but I’m not going to let you starve while doing so. Please, at least make sure to take some time for yourself- even if that’s after work. Nothing good comes out of neglecting yourself-“
Valjean looked down. Javert was asleep.
Huh. Maybe he’d be able to bore the man into taking care of himself. 

—————————————————————————————

Sunlight streamed in through the curtains, falling gently against Javert’s face. While it wasn’t a horrible way to wake up, it really could have come at a later time. Grumbling, he reach for his phone on the bed side table. It was Saturday. He had off.

“Thank fuck…”

The only noise he got in response was a snore from Valjean, who had carried him up to bed from the couch. He had his arms wrapped around Javert’s waist and chest and a leg thrown over his own. His face was pressed into the back of the younger’s neck, stubble tickling the other every time he moved.

Maybe Jean was right. It wasn’t always bad to sleep in.

Hope you all enjoyed! Chapter 3 in progress!