Title: Medic
Work ID: 32844046
Author: PBJellie
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Bahorel/Feuilly (Les Misérables), Javert/Jean Valjean, Grantaire & Jean Prouvaire
Additional Tags: District 9 (Hunger Games), Physical Disability, Alternate Universe - Hunger Games Setting, Hunger Games-Typical Death/Violence, Gun Violence, Angst, Minor Character Death, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder - PTSD, Suicidal Thoughts, Forced Prostitution, Substance Abuse
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 10/10

Summary:
"You've been Reaped."
"It's not harvest time, yet," Joly explained. "There's nothing to reap. The grain won't be good if we cut it now."
 
Joly is kidnapped from his house in rural District 9 to take part in some sort of game he's never heard of. And to make matters worse, they won't let him bring his cane.

Work text:

It was hot when the peacekeepers came to Joly's door. 

In fairness, it wasn't Joly's door. It was Bulgur's door, and Bulgur was the guy who owned the house he and his mother lived in, but it was odd, nonetheless. No one out here knocked on the door, because everyone Joly had ever met lived in this house. Or they were dead, but Joly tried not to think about that. 

There shouldn't have been peacekeepers out here, anyways. The wheat wasn't ready to be harvested, not yet, and when it was time they only ever sent one guy with a big truck. He would weigh it, then check the house to make sure they weren't taking any. The peacekeepers said that was stealing, even if they were the ones to plant it, water it, and harvest it. 

He didn't remember the last time they kept any, but Bulgur's wife had been around, with her short white hair and flower garden. It was one of the years it rained. Not a year where it rained too much, but the right amount of rain. 

Last year they got too much rain, and the peacekeeper with the truck yelled at all of them. He had them line up in front of the old barn, where they could see the soggy fields, and he screamed. He called them stupid. which they weren't, they just didn't control the weather.

Bulgur leaned down to Joly and told him to be quiet, but he knew that. He knew not to talk with the peacekeepers unless they asked him a question first. And he knew not to ever yell back. 

No one in the house ever yelled, not unless they were outside and far away. 

Yelling wasn't something his house did when angry, at least not to him. 

He was the youngest though, so maybe they just wanted to spare his feelings. His mom was the second youngest and no one yelled at her either. Maybe when he got white hair they'd start yelling, but his mom's hair was streaked with grey, and still no one yelled at her. 

And she did a lot of stuff that Joly could understand yelling about. Like wandering off, or crying all night into her pillow, or forgetting to draw water for baths. And no one ever yelled at her, because she was sick. 

"Open the door!" a peacekeeper shouted as Joly peaked out through a second story window. "We're in search of Galen Joly!"

That was him. No one had seriously looked for him since he was eight. Everyone in the house, even Bulgur, searched the whole property calling his name. He was playing hide and seek with his mom, and he was winning. He crawled into a space below the barn, cane tucked against his side, and waited for his mom to find him. She took a really long time, and then the cicadas came out, and then everyone was calling for him. 

Bulgur still sometimes called him the hide and seek champion. Everyone used to, but now just Bulgur brought it up. Now it was just him, his mom, and Bulgur in the house. Everyone else died, but when they were alive, they were proud of Joly, too.

This wasn't a game of hide and seek, though. He was folding laundry, because he finished the sweeping and got all of the upstairs trash in piles so Bulgur could put it behind the barn. Every once in a while they'd burn it, and Bulgur would show him constellations as the fire crackled and popped. 

"Galen Joly!" another distorted voice screamed. 

Was screaming his name the same as asking for him? Bulgur was working the fields, riding his tractor, and his mom well, she was somewhere. Maybe she was helping; that made sense. Bulgur liked to watch her, just to be safe, and Joly didn't need to be watched. 

He did need help getting up and down the stairs though. 

"I'm here," Joly said through the open window. There wasn't a breeze, but he didn't think an open window would make the house hotter. 

"Come out of the residence!" 

"I, uh, I'm not supposed to be on the stairs by myself," Joly explained. "But if you'll help, I'll come outside." 

He fell down the stairs when he was little, before he won that game of hide and seek, and Bulgur's wife, Baah, told him not to play there anymore. That became the rule, and Bulgur always helped him up and down. It wasn't a mean rule; it was just to keep Joly safe, because he was not very good at walking. 

Bulgur said it was because he got sick as a baby. His mom wouldn't let the peacekeepers give him any shots so he got really, really sick, or that’s what Bulgur said. Baah spent lots of nights staying up with him, holding him, and he got better. Well, sometimes his right leg wouldn't hold any weight at all, and he'd trip, but he didn’t die. 

Bulgur made him his first cane for his seventh birthday, out of a big branch from the tree in front of their house. When he got taller, and he got taller every year, Bulgur made him a new cane. Since he was so good with his cane, he was allowed to play outside alone and help bring in the crop.

But, even with the cane, he wasn't allowed on the stairs alone.

The four peacekeepers walked inside, two by two, then stomped up the stairs. Joly leaned on his cane as he stood up, hair matted to his head with a sheen of sweat. They left the door wide open, which Bulgur didn't like. 

They hit the door upstairs so hard it came off the hinges. It wasn't locked, because no one locked anything, unless it was nighttime and they didn't want his mom to wander off. But this was the day, and there was never any reason to hit stuff.

Before Joly could tell them to stop, that it wasn't nice, they were pointing something at him, something black and small. Each one of them had their own, and they held it with stiff arms with a finger looped around a little circle piece.

"Do they not have air con out here?" 

Being helpful could diffuse a tough situation. He knew when Bulgur had dark bags under his eyes and his mother wouldn't stop talking to herself, making dinner would help everyone calm down; so would tending to the vegetables right by the house. Sometimes, when everyone was busy and they didn't have enough time to do what they needed, they appreciated help. 

"I don't know what that is, but I can help you look for it," Joly smiled, tapping his cane on the ground. 

"Well, he's not going to win," one of them chuckled. 

"What am I winning?" Joly asked as the peacekeeper in front put his black thing back against his leg. The rest put theirs away, too. Everyone’s shoulders fell a little, and it was hard to tell if they were relaxing beneath their suits, but they must have appreciated his help. 

"You've been Reaped." 

"It's not harvest time, yet," Joly explained. "There's nothing to reap. The grain won't be good if we cut it now." 

Joly flinched as a peacekeeper grabbed him by the armpits. His cane clattered to the ground, and they were moving down the stairs, with Joly's feet hitting every step on the way down. 

No one from harvest time had ever dragged him down the stairs. They always let Bulgur help him. All he needed was an arm around his waist, just in case he lost his balance. 

This was different.

He fought down the nervous feeling in his chest and remembered to breathe, like Bulgur had taught him after the first time he found his mother wandering outside in the snow, barefoot. He couldn't help if he couldn't focus. He just needed to breathe and take an inventory of the situation. What did he need? What would help? 

His cane. First off, he needed his cane. 

"My cane! I can't walk without it. I mean, I can, but I trip a lot, so if we could-"

"Mobility aids are not allowed in the Games." 

What kind of game didn't allow a cane? Blackjack? No, that was stupid. Why would a team of peacekeepers take him away to play Blackjack? They could play upstairs; there was no need to take him anywhere. 

"But I need it!" Joly explained, voice high and tight. Bulgur described that voice was whining when he was little, but he was sixteen. He didn't whine now, he just explained. 

"He's the only one," one of them said as his feet dragged against the front yard. The others nodded, like that meant something. 

They put him in the back of their truck. It wasn't the big grain truck, but it looked sort of like it. The back had two handles with bars over the windows. It was too short to be the grain truck, and the inside of the grain truck didn't have skinny metal benches around the sides. 

"The girl is from the Metro," someone said as they threw him inside. The doors slammed before he realized how bad it hurt to fall on his shoulder. Why were they talking about a girl? A Metro girl? Was he getting married? Did weddings have a no cane rule? 

Bulgur and Baah explained to him, when he was small, that one day, when he was older, he'd go to the Metro and meet a pretty girl who'd want to marry him. He didn't think he was old enough to get married yet, but maybe the peacekeepers did. No one ever mentioned they'd drag him away. 

As the truck sputtered, hitting bumps as he climbed onto the bench, he did his best not to worry. Marriages were fast, right? And they only had three people in the house, so there was lots of room. Hopefully he liked her. Joly never met anyone he didn't like, except the peacekeepers. He hadn't met that many people though. 

Maybe his new wife was a peacekeeper? He hoped not. He’d never seen a peacekeeper without a helmet, and they all sounded strange, but Joly didn’t think they were girls. Baah had said girls were mysterious though, and peacekeepers seemed mysterious. 

He hoped he was not going to have to marry a peacekeeper.

He followed that cyclical train of thought, staring at nothing in the dark, until he hyperventilated into an uneasy sleep.

If you are a person who needs warnings, I put the in the end if chapter notes.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


He woke up when the truck stopped. 

Well, he woke up a couple times, but the time he was truly conscious was when the truck stopped. He vaguely remembered hitting a couple bumps and his head cracking against the metal floor. He made a noise that was not complaining or whining, but was not happy, then he’d stare at where he knew the ceiling was until he fell back to sleep. 

Joly probably could have fallen back asleep if the truck doors didn’t open, but they did. And the same peacekeepers, or maybe different peacekeepers, were dragging him out of the back by his legs, yanking him forward. 

What kind of game required so much grabbing? What game needed peacekeepers? He felt himself spiral, and whispered “if you can’t focus, you can’t help,” a few times under his breath as one of the peacekeepers caught his back before he hit the ground. 

“Can you stand?” the peacekeeper asked. 

He didn’t give Joly time to answer the question. The answer would have been no, but instead he was propped onto his feet by metal hands, then he promptly collapsed to the ground. His leg hurt, and it didn’t work right when it hurt. The damn thing barely worked when it didn’t hurt. 

The tractor was a damn thing when Bulgur couldn’t get it to start, and so was the wood stove when it went out. Sometimes his mom was a damn fool, but that was always said softly. Joly wasn’t supposed to say damn, because Baah said it was an adult word, but he could think it. His mom, when she felt well enough to talk, explained to him that he was allowed to think whatever he wanted and no one could take that from him. 

So his leg was a damn thing. 

“How do we get him to the stage?” a different peacekeeper asked the one that dropped Joly. 

Why was there a stage? Was he getting married right now? Like this? His clothes weren’t even nice. Bulgur had a picture of him and Baah getting married, and she was wearing a white dress and he wore pressed dark pants and a white shirt with a coat. 

It wasn’t a real coat, Bulgur told him when he asked; it was a sports coat. Bulgur lived in the Metro when he was younger, and he met Baah. They wore things like coats that weren’t warm. Joly once had a coat that wasn’t warm, but it was just a bad coat. Bulgur even agreed with him, and then they cut it into rags for dishes. 

“Put him in the crowd, and we pull him to the front,” the first peacekeeper said. “And then I’ll sit him on the ground.” 

No one was asking him anything. It was his wedding, right? Was it a wedding game? Did he only have to get married when he won? Joly tried to take calming breaths, but it didn’t work. The air tasted dirty, like when he’d walk behind the tractor when it was running. Was he already in the Metro? 

Flat on his back, all he could see were the clouds drifting across the sky, but the sky wasn’t the right color. It seemed gray, like water after they did laundry. The sky was supposed to be a perfect blue underneath the clouds. 

Joly once saw the sky look wrong, and he went inside as fast as he could to show Bulgur, because wasn’t it odd? He was on his third cane, the one Bulgur carved flowers on, as decoration. He was so excited to show Bulgur how green it was, and the way the clouds were spinning, but Bulgur was not happy to see it. 

They all had to go into the cellar, where they kept the potatoes Baah grew, and close the top of it with a metal bar. When Joly asked what it was, Baah said hopefully nothing, but Bulgur said it was a tornado. 

Joly hoped the Metro didn't have tornados. 

They were dragging him across hard ground, his feet kicking along. He could walk, if they just helped him. No one said anything about the sky, or the tall skinny buildings that stretched impossibly high all around him. He hadn’t even noticed, but they were all made of stone and glass, and dirty. 

Everything seemed so dirty. Even the ground, when he finally got the courage to look down. His shoes, the one Bulgur traded some of the potatoes they grew to get, they scraped against the black hard ground that had no give. It was like their wood floors, but rougher and it didn’t creak in places. 

As he was trying to guess if it was just a new type of grass that he’d never seen before, because Baah said that there were lots of different plants in the world, most he’d never even see, the peacekeepers brought him into a crowd. 

Or through a crowd. Joly had never even imagined this many people were alive. Sure, Bulgur, in passing, mentioned that the Metro was full of people, but there were throngs of people. He’d always assumed that they grew all the wheat for everyone, but that couldn’t be true. There were at least a hundred boys, all whispering as he passed by, slouched in the arms of a peacekeeper. If they grew all the wheat, then the nation must have been starving. 

That explained why the peacekeepers were so mad when they didn’t do a good job. 

“Someone prop him up,” the peacekeeper commanded as they reached the front of the crowd.

A big porch rested at the front of the group, with a tall skinny metal pole, flanked by peacekeepers. They stood in a halfmoon, watching the crowd, hands on those black objects they’d pointed at Joly when they came into his house. 

Finally, someone, a stranger, wrapped an arm around his waist. Baah had always said to be nice to strangers, because everyone was once a stranger. His mom was a stranger when she found Bulgur’s and Baah’s house, and they’d been nice enough to let them live there. 

In the spirit of making a good impression, as Bulgur liked to say when he got dressed up to go into town, he introduced himself, “I’m Galen Joly,” he smiled, even though the boy couldn’t see him as he held him upright. 

The boy didn’t respond. Joly gnawed his lip a little, then realized he’d forgotten his manners. This boy was doing him a favor, like when Joly went to grab the wood when it was cold and Bulgur’s knees hurt, and he hadn’t even acknowledged it. And the only real way to acknowledge a favor was with a thank you, at least according to Bulgur and Baah. His mom didn’t even talk about favors, but sometimes she didn’t talk at all. 

“Thank you for helping me,” Joly said, doing his best to keep the nervous edge out of his voice. 

“Is there something wrong with your legs, or are you just being dramatic?” 

“My leg isn’t working today,” Joly nodded, because he wasn’t dramatic. “It was working better before the peacekeepers took my cane, but then they did and I fell. Then they took me here for some game.” 

“Someone will volunteer for you,” the boy shifted his weight. “Hey, help me hold this kid up! He’s not heavy, but he’s not the lightest guy in the world, either.” 

“Who's the volunteer?” the boy to his right said, offering out an arm for Joly to grab. “I heard Rye was gonna do it, after how his mom died and the landlady kicked him out of his room.” 

The boy’s mom was dead? That was terrible. He couldn’t imagine living in a world without his mom, even if he could get married. Would that Rye boy’s new wife take care of him? He hoped so. Who would hug him when he was sad if he didn’t have a mom? 

“Rye and Challah for the boys,” the first boy said. "They wwre arguing over it." 

“Hope it’s Rye.” 

Joly sort of hoped that Rye could get a wife from this game, too. It still seemed odd that he couldn’t have his cane, seeing as they were doing a lot of standing. He couldn’t have been the only person who needed help standing. Bulgur had his very own cane, because he needed help, too. 

The crowd was noisy, like a swarm of bees moving from their hive to a new home. They weren’t angry, no, but they were loud. They had a couple beehives at their house, in special boxes that Bulgur made to take their honey. They only took a little, because Bulgur didn’t want them to starve when it got really cold, but honey was Joly’s favorite. Bulgur would let him take a spoonful when his leg ached, to take his mind off of it. 

Now would have been a great time for some honey. 

“Welcome to the District 9 Reaping for the 47th Annual Hunger Games,” a peacekeeper spoke into the skinny tall stick on the porch and it made his voice loud enough to hear over all of the noise. It was a very cool trick, but it made Joly uncomfortable. Why was this called the Hunger Games if it was about weddings?

Unless this was punishment for not growing enough grain last year. Was everyone here hungry because of him? He tried to shift, to hunch over and make himself smaller, but he couldn’t with the two strangers nicely holding him up. 

Unless they weren’t nicely holding him up and he was being pinned in place. 

The crowd stopped buzzing and fell eerily silent. The peacekeeper had a white slip of paper in his hand, but Joly could barely see it. Bulgur knew a trick where he could make a firm leaf disappear, but it really was up his sleeve or in between his fingers if it was small enough. It was a fun trick, and it seemed like the peacekeeper was trying to copy him. 

The peacekeeper with the very loud voice put his hand in a bowl with other pieces of paper, then swished it around like he was cleaning a blanket in a washbasin. When he pulled it out, there was paper in his palm. He unfolded it, then leaned against the tall stick again. 

“To represent the boys for District 9, Galen Joly,” the peacekeeper’s voice boomed. There was a moment of silence, and then the man repeated, “Galen Joly.” 

“I’m so sorry!” Joly tried to be as loud as the peacekeeper, but he couldn’t. He did his best anyway. “My leg is acting up, and I need help.” 

Two peacekeepers materialized next to him, and pried the strangers’ hands away. His feet banged against the ground again, and he tried not to wince, not in front of every person in the country. They pulled him up the steps, then tried to stand him at the right side, even though they knew he couldn’t stay upright. 

When he fell, the crowd made a hushed sound, all in unison. Joly may have cried, but only a little, and from far away everyone couldn’t see it, even if he was wiping his eyes. His leg really hurt. He hadn’t fallen so much since he was a little kid, and even then, he at least got good at falling. There was skill to it, tucking your body a certain way so nothing got too hurt, beyond a few bruises. He couldn’t do that when he was just dropped with no warning. 

“Rye Peterson, I volunteer!” A scrawny boy raised his hand and his clothes were just as dirty as Joly’s. No one else he saw looked as disheveled as he did, but he just assumed no one had been dropped on the ground and taken by force. 

The crowd clapped. A few people whistled, and others cheered, shouting and throwing their hands in the air in victory. From up high, they looked just like swarming bees, the crowd undulating as the noise grew louder. They all parted and Rye Peterson, the boy who everyone seemed to want to get married, smiled up at them. He was missing a few teeth, but they didn’t seem to be baby teeth. 

“No volunteers,” the peacekeeper sounded just like a crack of thunder, and the crowd had the same knee jerk reaction. 

“What do you mean no volunteers?” Rye scowled. “The rules say we can volunteer.” 

“The rules have changed,” the peacekeeper said. 

It seemed that no one ever told these people not to argue with a peacekeeper, because the entire crowd surged forward, bumping up against the big wooden porch. They bumped against the edge, in time, pulling back then ramming forward, like Joly, his mom, and Bulgur did when the tractor got stuck in the mud. 

It didn’t seem like the porch was meant to move though. It creaked, at first, as the peacekeepers rushed to the front, hands on those black things, pointing them to the crowd. A rock, grey and jagged, was flung forward as they all screamed about volunteers. Some said things about how unfair it was, and some just said curse words. 

And then the crowd was chanting “pigs! Pigs! Pigs!” 

Two more rocks flew onto the stage, and one hit a peacekeeper in the head. It cracked the glass of his helmet, and then there were explosions. They were louder than the crowd, but not as loud as the shrieking that followed. The noises were coming from those black things, and puffs of smoke were coming out of the front as the peacekeepers kept aiming for the people trying to dismantle their porch, plank by plank. 

Joly didn’t know what was happening. Was this normal for the Metro? Why did anyone want to take part in this odd wedding game? Why were there so many people and so many peacekeepers? He tried to steady his breathing, but then the air smelled like well water, and he couldn’t. He couldn’t breathe, even though he wanted to. His chest wouldn’t let him. He tried. Then he tried again. And he tried once more. But he couldn’t breathe. He couldn’t breathe. 

One peacekeeper tried to grab a girl from the crowd, leaning over the edge of the porch and lifting her up by the shoulder. She kicked at him as Joly scrambled to find the air, and he dropped her. The crowd cheered, and then the peacekeeper pointed that smoking thing down at her, and it went off. 

And then she was bleeding.

Not a little scratch, but lots of blood. It was more blood than Joly had ever seen before, and once his mom put her hand in the lawn mower when it was running to grab something. Watching blood pour out of her chest as the crowd trampled her like she was a weed, did not help him breathe. 

Was that what that thing did? Made people bleed? Why did peacekeepers need to hurt people? They just came to get the wheat to take it to be processed in the Metro. Joly had never thought they could or would hurt him. That girl's chest stopped moving, after a few minutes of being stepped on and the crowd slamming forward, and Joly knew she was dead. 

Why would someone die for a wedding? 

A different peacekeeper plucked a smaller girl out of the crowd. She kicked and screamed, just like the dead girl, but she didn’t get away. When she landed a kick against the peacekeeper’s chest, he pulled out another black item from his waist. Joly felt like he was going to vomit, even though he still couldn’t breathe, as this small black rectangle struck her with lightning. 

She screamed out, thrashing for a moment, but then went limp in his arms. That peacekeeper walked toward him, yanking him off the ground with his free arm, and took them both to a big metal not truck. 

It wasn’t a truck, but it had wheels. He tried to focus, because he couldn’t help himself if he couldn’t focus, but there was just too much to see. The too long to be a truck vehicle had the sun on the inside, hanging from the roof. How did they get the sun inside? What was happening? 

The girl wasn’t moving when the peacekeeper dropped him on the ground, yet again.Were they going to kill him? How was killing people related to a game? Games were supposed to be fun, and even if they weren’t fun, they weren’t dangerous. No one ever died playing Blackjack. 

The peacekeeper dropped the girl down next to him, and he sat up to check her for a pulse, like Bulgur had taught him when Baah was very sick. They took turns sitting with Baah for the last two weeks she was on Earth, because Bulgur didn’t want her to ever be alone. He grabbed her wrist, and put two fingers in place, then counted. It was thready, which is what Bulgur called a pulse when it was bad, but it was there. 

 

The door slammed shut, and the peacekeeper shouted, “move!” 

Joly tried, but he couldn’t. Certainly this girl couldn’t move either. He tried again to inventory his situation. There was a table and chairs and three doors, one on each end, and then the one the peacekeeper slammed. The sun was hanging from the ceiling, glittering. \

Or maybe the light was just really good candles. There didn’t seem to be any wax, but the more he looked, he got black spots in his eyes, just like when he was little and he’d stare at the sky, sometimes looking at the sun, even though Baah had told him not to. It was hard to notice anything else, because they didn’t seem like candles, but he was also pretty sure the sun had to stay in the sky. 

It helped him breathe a little, at least. If he could only have his vision or his oxygen, then he’d pick the latter. If he couldn’t breathe, then he was dead. 

Just like that girl who fought her way out of the peacekeeper’s arms. 

The sound those black things made kept happening, even if it was muffled by the walls. The peacekeeper didn’t even flinch. Were more people dying? Was this normal? This couldn’t have been normal. There was no way all those people would let this happen all the time. It was too scary. 

The not truck lurched forward, and he toppled over, his face hitting the ground with a thunk.

Theres a riot and the peacekeepers shoot into the unarmed crowd, and Joly watches someone die.

Somehow there was a place with more people than the Metro. It seemed impossible, but it was true. 

Joly was led off the not truck by a peacekeeper, and there were people everywhere. Hordes of them wearing black and white, with large hats that had feathers, like birds. 

But the feather hats didn’t help them fly, like Baah said. They just made them look taller, and if Joly was being honest with himself, silly. Baah, when they slaughtered an old chicken, would pluck all the feathers and put them in a sack, to use for later. Sometimes they’d go in one of his coats, to keep him warm, but they never went on hats.

And their hats didn't look like these people's hats.

He only knew that there were two types of hats; the kind that kept the sun out of your eyes and the kind that kept your ears warm when it snowed. And sometimes the color of the hats would be different, like how Joly’s sun hat was the color of wheat, while Bulgur’s was grey, but they were basically the same. 

Everyone here, wherever they were, they had a totally different kind of hat. The sun glared off the buildings, so it was hard to focus on the people and what they were wearing, but they all seemed different. One lady, if she was a lady and Joly wasn’t entirely sure one way or the other, wore a wide brimmed hat, like his sun hat. It was jet black, like a crow, with tall white feathers that were taller than their biggest chicken back home. 

Another person was in greyscale wedding clothes, just like Bulgur wore in his wedding picture. They wore a white hat with no brim, but nothing over the ears. It seemed to be covered in black down feathers, like an ugly baby bird. Baah used to embrodier his shirts when he was little, so he’d be handsome, so maybe that person thought they’d be handsome too. 

Joly didn’t think they looked very good, but it wasn’t Joly’s job to say that. It wasn’t nice to be mean, even if they looked like a bird’s nest that got spat out the back end of the tractor.

It was apparently Joly’s job to be dragged into a building by a peacekeeper, stumbling as he willed his leg to cooperate. He thought about telling the man that he was hurting, but he remembered what happened in the Metro, and he decided that the peacekeeper didn’t care. 

They’d killed that girl, he saw it. The crowd mowed her down as she was bleeding, and the peacekeeper didn’t even apologize. No one helped her up, they just kept shouting, even as those things they held kept smoking and exploding. Bulgur and Baah told him when he was small that hurting people was wrong; that if Joly hurt people he wouldn’t be a good boy. Did the peacekeepers not get the same lessons? Were Bulgur, Baah, and his mom the only good people? Was everyone else mean? 

“Hayseeds, the lot of them,” a woman with shoes that were as tall as the steps onto his porch back home said as the peacekeeper put him in her hands. “I styled last years Victor, and the best I can get is 9?” 

“This one can’t walk on his own,” the peacekeeper said as Joly stumbled for the lady. Her dress had black lines running up and down packed close together, like row crops. She sneered as Joly grabbed her arm to keep from falling. 

“I can walk with a cane,” Joly said, staring at her shoes. They were too tall. She was already tall, at least as tall as he was without them, and he was the tallest one in their house. 

She groaned, “so he’s just going to collapse on the podium, and some kid from 1 or 2 will have to do the job.” 

Joly didn’t know what she was talking about, but he didn’t want to collapse. He never collapsed at home. Bulgur made sure he didn’t work too hard, even during harvest. If he needed to sit down and rest, he was always allowed, even if it meant they’d have to finish in the dark. His health was important. 

Maybe his health was only important to Bulgur. 

“Come help him inside,” the lady screamed, sounding like when the chickens would fight. “Chop chop!” 

With everyone else on the road dressed in white and black, the person with red ribbon wrapped around their face stood out. Joly did not think it looked handsome, or pretty, or whatever it was supposed to look like, but it was nice that it wasn’t black and white. Baah grew flowers in front of their house, because colors cheered things up, as she said.

They raced to Joly, offering their arm as a brace. Bulgur did that sometimes, if he couldn’t find his cane, or he needed extra help. 

This was a nice person. 

“Thank you,” Joly smiled, feeling a bit reassured that not everyone else was terrible. If his whole house was full of good people, and this person was also good, then chances were more people would be good. 

Not the lady with the shoes, or the peacekeepers, or the group that trampled that girl, but other people. 

He tried not to think about the girl and the face she made as her chest stopped moving up and down. Baah looked like she was sleeping when she stopped breathing, but that girl looked scared. No one comforted her or even pulled her into a hug. Baah died holding Bulgur’s hand, and that girl died underneath people's feet. 

The person in red was taking most of the weight from his right side, but they didn’t complain. Sometimes Bulgur would make jokes about how heavy he was, but they were just jokes though. It was funny to both of them when Bulgur asked what he was eating, because Bulgur knew. He was eating vegetables from the garden and eggs from the chickens, just like Bulgur. He ate more than Bulgur, but Bulgur said that was because Joly was growing taller, while Bulgur was only growing wider. 

“Let me guess, you don’t want to be pampered,” the lady’s black and white nails clicked against the outside of the building. Joly tried to walk faster, seeing the angry look on her face, but it hurt. 

He tried to focus on moving his legs, to get to her faster, but sometimes the right one just froze up. He couldn’t do anything but use his left hand to force it forward, even though it ached. The person in red patted his shoulder twice, then wrapped his other arm around Joly’s upper back, grabbing under his armpit. 

“I’m not going to have time to get you cleaned up and fitted!” the lady shouted. 

She shouted a lot. The person in red seemed resigned to that, like they expected it. Maybe she was just miserable to be around. They had a lady named Anadama who stayed with them, who they buried by the barn before Joly got his first cane, and she was miserable, too. Baah said it was because she was old and she hurt, but Bulgur said she was just a rotten person. 

Hurting wasn't an excuse to be nasty.

The lady’s hair was white like she was old, but the skin on her face was too tight. Old people had wrinkles in the corners of their eyes, around their mouths when they talked, and their necks were loose. She didn’t seem old, not with the way she stood so tall. 

So she must have just been rotten. 

When Joly finally got into the building, the sun was inside again. It couldn’t have been candles, because they would have made the room hot, and it was colder than their cellar. The light came from everywhere, little holes in the ceiling and every couple steps along the wall, and it seemed to even come from the floor beneath him.

"Took him an eternity to get inside," the woman scoffed, holding a metal door. "At this rate we aren't going to have time to fit him." 

The person in red didn't say anything. 

"Hurry up!" The woman's shoes stomped against the floor, then she did it again. She looked like a bird scratching for bugs, especially with the feathers. 

He only laughed a little. 

"Fine, you want to greet the nation dressed like that, be my guest!" 

She was just rotten. That's all it was. 

He sat in a large chair and the person in red stripped his clothes off, not even folding them, just tossing them on the floor. It was odd, but he was so surprised and so exhausted, that he didn't say anything. 

It didn't help that his leg ached, and any time he closed his eyes to get some rest, to center himself, he just saw the girl beneath the crowd's feet, dying. The person in red took Joly's shoes, and Joly thought about the girl's blood on the ground. Did they all go home after and scrub their shoes?

Or did they all die? 

They might have all died. 

Joly couldn't breathe. That thing, that black thing that made the air smell like the water in the summer, must have gone off a hundred times. They all must have been dead. They all must have died.

"You're going to be blotchy for the chariots!" 

He was forced into a tan suit, with a sports coat like Bulgur's from his wedding photo. Hastily, she put some pins in the sleeves, making them shorter. She pricked him, and he cried out, still panicked from the thoughts of the girl, blood pouring from a hole in her blouse. But the lady did not apologize, she just forced him into shoes that hurt his feet. 

One long black nail pointed toward the door as Joly struggled to calm himself. He didn't think there was anything he could do to improve the situation, even if he could focus, which he couldn't. He couldn't focus at all. 

He lost time, which happened when he had a particularly bad day. He just sat there, in this strange chair in front of a woman who thought she was a bird and a person whose face he couldn't even see, and he cried. He cried loudly, nails racking down his face. 

A peacekeeper came and took him outside. This time his feet didn't touch the ground. The peacekeeper tied his hands with metal to a bar behind two horses. The girl who was struck by lightning was beside him, and very much alive.

So not everyone was dead, which was a relief. Maybe everyone else from the crowd was dead, but not her. Was she to be his wife? She was pretty, even as she yanked her wrists against the bar, clanking the metal. She looked fierce, like Baah when she pulled potatoes out of the earth.

"What's your name?" Joly asked, voice rough from crying. It seemed like an underwhelming question, given the circumstances. "I'm Galen Joly." 

"Go fuck yourself," she snarled, spitting as she tried to free herself. 

That couldn't have been her name. That wasn't a name was it? Joly heaved a little, his breath catching in his chest. He wrapped both hands around the bar, to prop himself up, and tried to just focus. 

He couldn't. 

And then a peacekeeper hit the horses, and they raced forward. Joly stumbled, but he didn't fall. 

The horses went down the road, and it was bright even though it was night. The girl next to him, the one who he guessed he was marrying, was shouting. She yelled things like, "death to the Capital! Death to Panem!" 

The other chariots had riders, too, and they joined. Everyone was yelling, just like at the Metro. Joly didn't know what it meant, so he didn't make any noise.

The people lit by the fire, the ones standing and watching, they didn't join either. They were hard to see, but they had furrowed brows and drawn mouths. Parents held their hands over their children's ears, and peacekeepers held their hands on those black things still holstered against their legs. 

Joly used his energy to stand, and did his best not to think about anything else.

The house they stayed in, called an apartment by the peacekeeper who locked them inside, was cold. They were so high up that Joly couldn't see the people on the ground, even though the streets were lit. How was everything so bright and so cold? The only place back home he could get any relief from the summer heat was the cellar or the stream behind the crops. 

The girl who didn't want to talk to him wasn't surprised. She touched the walls to make the rooms brighter, and she did it confidently. Joly tried to hide his surprise. He didn't want this girl, possibly his wife, to think he was stupid. 

He gasped when water came out of the wall. It poured into a basin with a hole at the bottom. The water never filled to the top or spilled over, it just drained away, back to where it came from, Joly supposed. The girl drank the water without boiling it, first from her hands, then from a perfect glass.

It wasn't cracked or chipped, nor was it stained. Joly could see the palm of her hand as she held her drink. He couldn't remember ever having a glass that looked that nice. 

"Anyone ever told you it's rude to stare?" 

"No." 

Joly thought about it, after he said it. Bulgur and Baah never talked about being rude. They told him not to stare, but just at the sun. They said it could hurt him.

"I guess you're asking me not to?" 

She smiled, the glass pressed against her lips. Would he kiss her? Husbands and wives kissed, didn't they? Did they need to practice kissing before getting married? She seemed to know so much more than him, so hopefully she'd just know what to do. 

"You're still staring." 

He was. He watched her neck as she took a gulp, lips still turned upwards. She was very pretty, at least as pretty as his mom. Her brown hair was pulled away from her face with a ribbon, like Baah's when she worked. Her eyes crinkled at the corners as she put the glass down on the counter.

"You're not from the Metro, are you?" 

Joly shook his head and picked at a piece of bread. He wasn't hungry, but they hadn't had any bread since before Baah died. This tasted better cold than the bread back home tasted warm. If he had honey, then this might have been the best bread he ever ate. 

"Is your town real small?" she disemboweled a pink fruit Joly had never seen before, pulling out the wrinkled pit. Juice dripped down her chin as she chewed. 

"I don't go to town," Joly explained after he swallowed. Baah told him talking with food in his mouth was rude, and this girl seemed to like good manners. "Bulgur always goes by himself." 

"So you just hang out with your neighbors?" 

"We don't have neighbors," he shrugged, smashing crumbs into the plate with his index finger. "It's just me, Bulgur, and my mom." 

She sighed, grabbing more fruit, "what rancid luck." 

"I really love them, so it's been nice," Joly said, inclined to come to his family's defense. "I like it back home and they like me." 

She gave him a long look, then took another bite. "I'm going to bed," she took her fruit with her, and she didn't even say goodnight. 

Joly called out, once her door was already shut. He went through the whole spiel Baah used to give, "goodnight, sleep tight, don't let the bed bugs bite." 

He realized he was stuck a few moments after that. 

It was a good thing he wasn't tired. When he had quiet, presumably to sleep, his mind spun like the tires of a stuck tractor. It made just as much of a mess, but he didn't know how to wipe mud out of his head. 

He thought about the girl, the one in the other room. Her mouth was cute, and there was something about her lips he liked, and the lines of her neck. He'd never thought about someone's lips or neck before, not like this. It was odd, but Joly didn't think he disliked it. 

He did dislike how angry she seemed. Hopefully she wasn't angry with him, but maybe she wanted to marry someone smarter, or someone more handsome. He was a hard worker, and Baah told him that would be enough, but maybe she was wrong. 

Could dead people be wrong? Joly's stomach turned when he thought about the first girl. She was dead, just like Baah. Was she in heaven? Bulgur said Baah went to heaven and one day they'd all go. Heaven was what happened when someone died. 

Was that girl trying to get to heaven on purpose? Bulgur said heaven was nice, nicer than even the Metro. Did she know she was dying? Did they all know?

They were all dead, weren't they? 

Was everyone in the whole Metro dead? Ge started to cry, stiff in his seat. What if Bulgur and his mom died, too? What would he do? He tried to control his sobs, but each thought was worse than the last. 

A knock startled him into silence. 

"I know everything is awful," a gruff man slurred from below, muffled by the floor. "I really, really get it, but you gotta cry quieter. The kids from 8 and 10 can hear you." 

Those were the levels of the apartments. They went up to level 9 in a shiny box called an elevator. No one would explain how it worked when he asked, but the box lifted them all off the ground, somehow. All the peacekeeper had to do to move them was press a button. 

A laugh came from the ceiling, "Grantaire, don't be a dick." Joly didn't know what a dick was, but it couldn't have been good if Grantaire, the man below him, he guessed, wasn't supposed to be one. 

"He's so loud, Valjean," Grantaire shouted. "I'm in the living room, watching parade coverage, trying to see how they doctored that shit show, and I can't hear shit!"

"I'll cry quieter," Joly loudly said, his cheeks flushed with shame. No one ever told him he cried too loud before. Was he bad at crying? He sobbed, then catching himself said, "I'm sorry." 

"You're the boy from 9?" Valjean asked from above. Joly made a noise that he meant as an agreement. "Calm down, you're what, 17? There's no Careers and the kids this year are young and small; you've got a chance." 

Did they think he was crying about a game? He wasn't a baby. "Someone died in the Metro!" he wailed. "They called my name, then put me on their big wooden porch, and everyone tried to get up and the peacekeepers, they had these things that made smoke, and a girl was bleeding and no one else stopped to help her so she died! I saw!"

"So 9' s rioting, too?" Grantaire sighed. "Fuck. Don't do anything stupid. Just go to bed."

"I can't! They took my cane and I can't walk without it. The peacekeeper dragged me back to this house, and I'm stuck at the table."

Both men cursed. 

"Javert!" Valjean hit something solid twice. "Javert! Go unlock 9's unit and help the boy to bed." 

It was quiet, then someone shrieked, "just because I failed, that doesn't mean I'm going to bust out a window and jump if I'm left alone for ten minutes! Holy fuck!" 

"Was that Feuilly?" Grantaire asked, sounding surprised. "He's gonna jump out a window?" 

They were too high to climb out. Joly could barely get out of their first floor windows when the door stuck.

"It's Feuilly," Valjean called, sounding sad. "He failed his eval." 

"Obviously," Grantaire laughed. "Hey, numbnuts! If you want people to believe they can leave you alone, don't scream your plan to off yourself!"

Joly didn't know what offing yourself meant, but it didn't seem good. Feuilly didn't seem happy like Grantaire did, laughing as he said things. His yelling sounded hurt. 

The front door clicked and two men walked in, one with dark skin and very short hair, and the other tan and tall with dark eyes. 

"Go suck Bahorel off!" Feuilly was the short one, with short hair, and he jumped up and down as he screamed, then stamped his feet when he got tired. 

"You're just mad you can't without a chaperone," Grantaire howled, giggling. "I don't even think I could get hard in front of Javert." 

Javert looked stern. The frown he wore suited him. He held one finger out toward his mouth as Feuilly looked ready to scream, then added, "Surprising, Grantaire. I would have guessed you had an exhibitionist thing." Javert shook his head then softly asked, "you require assistance?" 

"It's one thirty! Why are we yelling?" a small squeaky voice asked. "Are you being mean to Feuilly?" 

"Yeah, Jehan," Feuilly's voice feigned hurt, but he smiled at Javert and Joly. "Grantaire hurt my feelings. It made me sad." Feuilly stomped again, to prove his point. 

"I don't deserve this," Grantaire hit his ceiling, giggling.

"Feuilly is so nice!" Jehan, who seemed young, exclaimed. "He took me to a movie, and we shared popcorn, and he braided my hair and we talked about my books, and we read together, and he's so handsome, even with short hair! Tell Feuilly you're sorry, because he's my best friend ever!" 

"Sorry," Grantaire huffed as Javert hovered around the table.

"That didn't sound like you meant it," Jehan complained. 

"It really didn't," Feuilly grinned. "He should make me an apology bracelet." 

"That's a great idea!" Jehan's voice was shrill, like a bird as the sun rose. "We should get started now, so it's ready in the morning to make him feel better. What colors are good I'm sorry colors?"

"Why are we here?" Feuilly asked in his inside voice. "It's late."

"Hello, I'm Javert," he held out his hand, fingers all pointing toward Joly. Joly stared and then Javert's face fell. "Do they not shake hands in 9? Tell me your name." 

"Galen Joly," he said, holding his hand out just like Javert, then jittering it back and forth. 

"He's a farm kid," Feuilly snickered. "Look at his cheeks, see how they're red? That's how all the pale people in 11 get during the harvest." 

Finally, someone who understood. Joly nodded, then explained, as coherently as he could, all the things that happened to him. Not all the things ever, but he started with the peacekeepers taking him from his house, then Metro and the girl who died. He talked a little about the other girl in the apartment, and how she knew how to make the wall a well and the sun come on inside, and how he didn't understand any of it.

He realized, once he was done, that he hadn't explained why he needed help. He added that he wasn't allowed to have his cane, even though he needed it to walk. 

Feuilly looked like he was going to cry by the end. His eyes were already puffy, but Joly didn't mention it. He cried so loud that the people below and above him could hear, and he was ashamed they knew. Feuilly, just like Joly, seemed to be having a bad day. 

"We are here to help him to bed," Javert said. "Should I carry you?" 

"No!" He hated that. "I can walk if I have a little help. Some days I only need my cane for balance, but other days my leg doesn't cooperate. And today it's not cooperating, but I can manage with help." 

Feuilly held out his arm, and Joly pulled himself up. Feuilly seemed like a good person, so did Javert. They limped toward the bathroom, taking little steps. 

"That silver thing on the edge," Feuilly pointed toward a large white object, "push that down when you're done using the bathroom." 

"He doesn't need instructions for a toilet." 

"We use chamber pots in the poor parts of 11," Feuilly shrugged. "They're weird before you get used to them." 

If that white thing was a chamber pot, he wasn't sure how he was going to empty it. Maybe they needed a lot of people, which sounded gross. There wasn't any grass around, so they must have had to take it on that elevator, then haul it to where it was dumped.

Hopefully Joly wouldn't have to help.

"Silver things on the basin, the round ones, twist them to turn on the water to wash your hands," Feuilly touched the wall and the room lit up. Joly made a startled noise accidentally, and Feuilly didn't even laugh. "The electricity does that." 

So electricity was what kept it so bright. Joly whispered a thank you as Feuilly helped him into the room. 

"You got it from here?" 

Joly hoped so. He didn't want to pee in front of a stranger, even if he was nice. The door shut and Joly did his business, then he pressed the lever, just like Feuilly said. 

"Why is it so loud?" Joky asked, using the basin as leverage to move. It was surprisingly sturdy. The water came out hot against his hands. 

"The Capital's a trip, right?" Feuilly smiled, getting Joly out of the room. "It's time for bed. Javert and I will get you before training." 

Joly was too overwhelmed to ask what they were training for. The bed Feuilly helped him to was soft, with a tan blanket and four pillows. 

"Goodnight," Feuilly's smile didn't reach his eyes this time. "See you in the morning."

"Goodnight," Joly yawned, wrapping the blanket under his chin. 

As his eyes fell shut he heard Javert say, "you were worried about nothing, you're a good mentor." 

In response Feuilly started to cry, and Javert shushed him a few times before the lock clicked.

The peacekeeper banged on Joly's door four separate times. First was followed with a simple, "wake up!" The peacekeeper sounded angry, but that, from what Joly gathered, was normal. 

Things also went better when he didn't try to talk with the peacekeepers. They didn't want to hear how he needed his cane, so he didn't say anything.

He did need his cane though.

He stretched a bit in bed, lifting his arms to the ceiling in a sweeping motion that made his back pop. He tested each of his knees with a quick bend, to see how his right leg would hold up, and his right leg would hardly move. It was rare to have a day this bad.

Sometimes he'd be stiff like this after a week of harvesting, but that involved hauling things and climbing on and off the tractor. His whole body ached after too much farm work, which was normal. Bulgur and Baah always hurt around the harvest, so Joly figured it was unavoidable. 

"Shower's open," was what the peacekeeper shouted the second time. 

Showers were rain, and he didn't know why the heck it'd be raining inside. He giggled a little to himself remembering Feuilly saying the Capital is a trip, because while he didn't know exactly what that phrase meant, it was certainly a strange place.

For starters, electricity was both wonderful and terrifying. Why did they need it to be so bright inside? How did they rest? Did it hurt everyone's eyes? He'd ask Feuilly when he came to help him. 

He said he would, and Feuilly seemed like someone who did what he said.

"We're eating breakfast," the peacekeeper knocked. 

Breakfast sounded splendid, but he wasn't going to try to walk on his own. Today would be even worse than yesterday, as far as balance and ability to support his own weight, and yesterday had possibly been the worst day he could ever remember. 

Did they have bread for breakfast here? Joly liked bread, but so did everybody. Baah used to say bread was perfect and that's why they grew wheat. Everyone liked bread, the whole Metro and the whole country. She could never explain what a country was in a way he understood, but eventually he pieced together that the country was every human in existence.

His stomach rumbled as the peacekeeper hit the door twice, then pushed the door open. "We're leaving," he announced, hands on his hips. "The Victor from 11 is here with his peacekeeper. I don't know why you're being rewarded for such insolence-"

"That's enough," another peacekeeper said, voice low but firm. "We will see you at training." 

The peacekeeper, the one who kept hitting his door, put his hand where his eyes were under the helmet, then moved his arm forward, fingers in a flat blade. It looked silly, but maybe that's how they did things here. 

"Good morning," Feuilly walked into the room, already scrubbed clean and in new clothes. He held out his arm for Joly who took it eagerly. He needed to use the bathroom and he could use something to eat, too. 

"Good morning," Joly smiled, blinking away sleep. "Did you sleep well?" 

"Not at all," Feuilly didn't smile back. That's right, Joly reminded himself silently, Feuilly had left the apartment crying.

"Be more bleak," a peacekeeper's voice called out, distorted by something. Peacekeeper voices didn't sound like human voices, even though peacekeepers seemed human. They were the right shape to be people and they used words Joly knew. They were just people in special clothes, surely. 

Bulgur would have said something if they weren't people. 

"You told me not to lie," Feuilly rolled his eyes as Joly staggered to his feet. "I feel like shit, didn't sleep at all, and I just want to go home to my bed in 11. I just want to be unconscious." 

"Do you have a plan?" the peacekeeper's voice changed into Javert's, like magic.

"No, I mean, sort of," Feuilly shrugged. "I'm not going to do it in front of the poor kid from 9 who can't even walk, for fuck's sake. This is embarrassing." 

Joly didn't know what exactly was so embarrassing. Sometimes he just wanted to go back to bed too. His whole life, Joly thought bad sleep was fairly normal. It was just a thing that happened, either because his leg hurt, it was too hot or cold, or the chickens were too rowdy. Sometimes he woke up tired for no reason and he'd yawn all day. 

"I don't think it's embarrassing," Javert said, walking into the room. 

Javert was a peacekeeper. He held his helmet in his hands, but his body was covered by hard white metal with black boots that went halfway up his calves.

"I didn't know peacekeepers could be nice," Joly blurted out without thinking. Thinking that maybe he could make it better, he kept talking, "you we're just so nice last night, and you were laughing. All the other peacekeepers just dropped me places or dragged me. It's just a surprise." 

"He's a pain in the ass," Feuilly said, smiling as Javert frowned at both of them. "He's cool though, like for a peacekeeper. He's probably the coolest peacekeeper- like he's not going to hurt you for no reason or anything like that." 

Javert shook his head, but instead of speaking, just sighed. Joly didn't know that the other peacekeepers would hurt him, but he thought back to the Metro and it made sense. They were all just mean, and they didn't care about that girl or anyone in the crowd, and now they were all dead. 

"Fuck, I didn't mean to make you cry," Feuilly spat, helping Joly out of the room. "Go wash your face and I'll get your uniform." 

Joly hadn't meant to cry; it was just something that kept happening. He hadn't even realized it this time. Once Feuilly shut the door, he checked the mirror. Tears ran down his cheeks, even as he willed himself to stop. He wasn't hurting, so there wasn't any reason for this. 

The noise the toilet made still frightened him, and he didn't understand how to get his toothbrush wet without a cup to dunk it into. He brushed his teeth dry, since the water that came from the wall pushed the toothpaste down that hole. It was just too fast, like tipping over an entire pitcher instead of pouring a little. 

The toothpaste here burnt his mouth. Was he not supposed to use it? He hadn't last night, but surely if he was going to play some sort of game, they wanted him to be presentable. Not that he understood in the slightest what they wanted him to do. Why was he even here? 

"You can dress yourself, right?" Feuilly asked, voice high and tight like his mom's before she'd go quiet for a long time. 

The door creaked open and Feuilly held a black suit by his fingertips, dangling it like it burnt him. Joly changed, keeping his undergarments. The outfit was one piece with a zipper Joly struggled with. Why was it on his back? Wouldn't it make more sense to put the zipper on the side or the front? 

It fit nicely, or he thought it did, even if it was loose in his right leg. Baah would have said he was handsome. He grinned in the mirror; she always said he looked handsome, but it must have been because he was just so cute. 

"Breakfast?" Feuilly asked as he swung the door open. His voice was still off, but Javert didn't seem concerned. Maybe he was used to it. 

Maybe Feuilly was sick like his mom. 

"Please?" Joly smiled. 

"We'll be late," Javert frowned as they walked toward the table. 

"It doesn't matter," Feuilly shrugged as Joly sank into a chair. "My tributes are both under fourteen, and Joly's well," he trailed off as he put a plate in front of Joly. 

"I'm sixteen," Joly explained, taking a forkful of cold eggs. "What are we doing this morning, anyway?" They weren't as good as the eggs back home, but he didn't complain. He chewed slowly as Feuilly shook his head. 

"Hunger Games training," Feuilly sighed. 

"Why am I eating if I'm supposed to be hungry?"

Javert's helmet clattered against the floor and Feuilly's face fell. 

"He doesn't know," Feuilly whispered, pressing his palms into his eyes. "I'm not gonna tell him." 

"Then don't," Javert picked up his helmet as Joly watched, bewildered. "Valjean will explain."

No one was making any sense. What was Valjean going to explain? Feuilly stared at him as he ate, eyes wide. Was he hungry? Joly hadn't even offered Feuilly and Javert anything to eat? 

"Do you want some?" Joly asked, pushing his plate away. "You can finish mine." 

Feuilly frowned, "no, but we're late, so we should just go if you're done." 

They left the food at the table, saving it for later. Maybe if Joly got hungry during training they'd come back for a snack, just like at home. Training couldn't have been far if they weren't packing a lunch. 

No one talked in the elevator, or as they walked out of the building. Javert was back in uniform, helmet firmly on his head. People looked as they crossed the street, and a few times something flashed. 

Joly froze each time, remembering the peacekeeper's lightning back in the Metro. Feuilly stopped, too. Feuilly would move to wrap an arm around Joly's waist when they stopped, like maybe he thought Joly would fall over. 

"They're just taking our picture," Feuilly whispered. "Smile." 

Joly could smile. Joly loved to smile. He grinned and grinned, and when Feuilly snorted, "tone it down," he did his best. 

"We need to get to training," Javert used his peacekeeper voice and the people outside hemmed and hawed, but dispersed. 

No one here seemed afraid of Javert, even though Feuilly said that peacekeepers hurt people for no reason. Was that secret information? Why didn't anyone tell these people? Feuilly rolled his eyes when Joly looked to him for guidance. 

They were outside a grand building, which stuck out even in this city. It wasn't the tallest, but it was wide. The roof was domed and reflected the light like it was coated in water, shimmering under the sun. People hung around in clusters, chattering and pointing, some to Feuilly and some to the building. 

Joly didn't think he could ever get used to how it looked, either. 

Someone shrieked loudly as a popping sound rang out. Feuilly grabbed Joly's arm, in front of the doors, then shook his head. The popping sound continued, one after the other, in quick succession. 

"I have to go inside," Javert jolted forward. "Don't you dare, Feuilly. Stay put." 

"I'll make sure!" Joly called out as the people ran away, covering their ears. He started to wonder if they should leave too, but Feuilly rooted himself in front of the doors. 

"I don't need a babysitter," Feuilly whispered, tears pricking at his eyes. "I don't even know you." 

Joly nodded, unsure of what else he was supposed to do. He didn't want Feuilly to start crying. "I don't even understand what's happening, but you seem sad." 

"They're shooting," Feuilly grimaced as the sound went off again. "My friends, Valjean, Grantaire, Bahorel, and Javert are in danger, and I have to stand here, with you, because no one trusts me." 

"Shooting?"

"The peacekeepers are shooting people," Feuilly explained, putting a hand on the door handle. "I have to help." 

"We're not supposed to." 

"Well, I'm here because I did a series of things I wasn't supposed to," Feuilly grumbled. "Look, you'll be safest if just-" 

"My apartment, now!" Someone shouted as the door flew open, pushing Joly and Feuilly flat onto the ground. 

"Grantaire!" Feuilly yelped, pulling himself off the ground. "Anyone hurt?" 

Joly thought maybe he was hurt, but a bulky man scooped him off the ground, tucking him under one arm and Feuilly under the other. They hurtled through the street, then into the elevator. 

"Whose hurt?" Feuilly asked again, frantic. "Where's Valjean?" 

"Valjean will be fine," Grantaire, the tall skinny man with yellowed skin grimaced, as the other man put both of them down. "Javert is with him, and it's not life threatening. So you're staying with us."

Feuilly was kind enough to catch Joly before he crumbled. Grantaire pressed the button to take them to 8, and shook his head. He blinked a few times, then turned and looked at Joly. 

"Is that a tribute?" 

"Yeah, Galen Joly from 9." 

Grantaire's face looked like Bulgur's when they successfully got the tractor unstuck immediate relief. "You're the crier, aren't you?" 

"That's not nice, dude," the man who carried them laughed. "Sorry, Grantaire is an asshole." 

"Are you laughing?" Grantaire joined him, snickering. "All the other tributes are gone, and you're laughing?" 

"I mean, I thought you had an easy win, but holy fuck. All this schmuck had to do was not go to training." 

"What happened?" Feuilly asked, steading Joly as the elevator dinged at floor 8. 

"They turned on the peacekeepers," Grantaire explained, waltzing into the apartment. It looked a lot like the apartment Joly stayed in, except someone was hunched over on the couch, wrapped in a blanket that was the brightest orange Joly ever saw. The figure fell forward, tumbling onto the ground and laying flat, still wrapped in that blanket. 

"It's just me, Jehan," Grantaire sighed, hopping over the back of the couch and sliding into his seat. "And some of the Victors." 

"I thought they came back," Jehan's voice was delicate as they huddled on the floor. "Is Feuilly here?" 

"Yeah, Jehan," Feuilly forced a smile for the first time today. "I'm here. We're just going to hang out." 

"Grantaire didn't finish your bracelet, so I'm finishing it," Jehan squeaked, crawling back onto the couch. 

Feuilly helped Joly toward the group while the large man grabbed food off the table. 

"He doesn't need a bracelet," Grantaire huffed, kicking his feet onto a table. "Jehan, go to your room, we need to have a conversation." 

"By myself?" 

Joly got his first look at Jehan, with their big doe eyes that glistened under the light as their bottom lip pouted. Joly wasn't sure if Jehan was a boy or a girl. The button up they wore seemed to be a boy's shirt, but it was embroidered with bows and flowers, and their hair was long and braided. Joly didn't want to be rude, so Joly wasn't going to take a guess. 

Jehan seemed to be a child though, obviously the youngest in the room. Joly sat down and Jehan shrinked away. 

"I don't know that person," Jehan whispered, tucking themself behind Grantaire. "Why are they here?" 

"So this is Jehan?" bits of apple flew out of Bahorel's mouth as he yelled. "I'm Bahorel." 

"You're in the videos with Grantaire," Jehan grimaced. "You hurt him." 

"What videos?" Grantaire straightened up as Feuilly leaned forward. Bahorel gulped, then finished his apple, core and all. 

Jehan shrugged, looking at the floor. 

"Jehan, what videos do you see where Bahorel hurts me?" 

"Just videos," Jehan whimpered, covering their face with both hands. 

Bahorel chuckled, slinging his arm around Joly as he took his seat. "Don't judge the boy's porn choices. He knows what he likes." 

Everyone started to talk at once. 

"You do porn?" 

"I'm not a boy!" 

"Jehan is ten!"

Joly didn't say anything. He didn't understand what they were talking about, so he didn't have an opinion. 

"I didn't mean to see it," Jehan wrapped their arms around Grantaire's waist. "I changed it when he choked you and pushed you into the table. I realized it was bad." 

"It's pretend," Grantaire seemed reluctant to touch Jehan, even when he was getting a hug. "It's all pretend, okay?" 

"You two do rough porn?" Feuilly snickered, throwing back his head. "He made me hide in the bathroom at my Victory party, with Javert, just to get another kiss!" 

"I'm not gay." 

"You seem pretty happy," Joly chimed in.

"Not that kind of gay," Jehan leaned forward, wiping their face on Grantaire's shirt. "Bahorel likes boys, that kind of gay. That's why it will never work out between us," Jehan sighed wistfully as Grantaire and Feuilly giggled. "Grantaire told me when Bahorel won that I wasn't allowed to date him. He's very handsome, even if he's mean." 

"You asked me to kiss you!" Feuilly shrieked, laughing as he curled inward. "You begged me. And I said, I'm not allowed to be alone, and you said, that's fine, and we kissed in front of Javert in the Game Maker's bathroom." 

"I didn't beg for shit," Bahorel grimaced as Jehan stared at Joly.

"I'm going to call someone?" Grantaire looked to Bahorel, then Feuilly. When they both shrugged, Grantaire looked at him. 

"I'm sure he doesn't know what a phone is," Feuilly teased. "Whose number do you have?" 

"Game Maker's?" Grantaire held his empty hands out. 

"If Mr. Enjolras doesn't know what to do, no one does," Feuilly growled, looking at the floor. 

"He hurt you?" Bahorel asked, face empty. "Like the first time isn't fun, but he's not unnecessarily rough." 

Feuilly snapped up, head cocked to the side as Jehan wrapped their blanket tightly around themself. "What are you talking about? He's just the asshole who makes Javert follow me, even when I need to take a piss." 

"Oh," Bahorel's shoulders fell a little as Jehan peaked out at Joly again, like a baby chick. "Well, that's good. I'm glad." 

"You're glad I'm on suicide watch?" 

"What's suicide watch?" Jehan asked, not looking away from Joly. 

"Feuilly wants to-"

"We're not explaining suicide to Jehan," Grantaire snapped, cradling something against his head. "And no one's had S-E-X with Feuilly yet. Javert has made sure." 

Bahorel nodded as Joly wondered what S-E-X was. Feuilly seemed just as confused. Maybe it was a city thing.

"No one's had sex with Feuilly?" Jehan asked. "What's sex?" 

Oh, Joly knew this one. The rest of the room looked away from Jehan, but this was such an easy question. 

"Sexing is when you squeeze a chick to check if they're a boy or a girl chicken." Joly didn't know what was so funny, but they all laughed as Jehan nodded, sagely. 

"Everybody shut up, I'm making a phone call."

If staring was rude, and the girl Joly stayed with seemed to think it was, then Jehan was very rude. Jehan stared constantly. Joly couldn’t even shift his weight on the couch without Jehan recoiling. Joly tried to talk to Jehan, to maybe put them at ease, but they didn’t seem interested, not with Grantaire off in his room. 

“So you’re doing better, right?” Bahorel asked, slouching next to Feuilly. They held hands, thighs touching. They cuddled together like Bulgur and Baah when it got cold. 

Feuilly shrugged. 

“Do you get to go home alone?” Bahorel jostled Feuilly, nudging him in the ribs, but Feuilly didn’t laugh. Rough housing was supposed to be fun. 

“Javert comes with,” Feuilly rolled his eyes as Jehan blinked for what felt like the first time.

“Fuck, Feuilly,” Bahorel sighed, wrapping both arms around Feuilly’s chest and squeezing. “Dude, I’m sorry. What’d you say to their doctor?” 

Shamefaced, Feuilly looked at his shoes and said, “the truth.” 

Joly had not seen very many displays of affection. He leaned back to look around Jehan, who flinched, and watched Bahorel press kisses into Feuilly’s forehead, and whisper things in a sweet voice that Joly couldn’t hear. Occasionally, Feuilly shook, but Bahorel shushed him, then rubbed his back. 

It seemed nice. Joly wanted someone to do that for him. Not anyone in this room, he didn’t think, but someone. When he married the girl from the Metro, would they do that every night? That’s what married people did, wasn’t it? 

“You’re one of them,” Jehan whispered, their eyes two perfect circles. 

Joly didn’t know what that meant, but it seemed ominous. Jehan looked like an owl, and owls always gave him the heebie jeebies. Was that why people didn’t like being stared at? Did he make the girl in his apartment feel this nervous? He owed her an apology. 

“I don’t sleep,” Jehan blinked again, and Joly waited for their head to twist at an unnatural angle, or spin all the way around. “You have to sleep.” 

“What the hell are you talking about, little man?” Bahorel held Feuilly as he turned, laughing. “You don’t sleep?” 

“I’m not a man,” Jehan’s eyes would have been pretty if they didn’t scare Joly so much. They looked like grass, the same brilliant green. Jehan didn’t look at Bahorel as they admonished them. 

“Jehan isn’t a boy or a girl,” Feuilly weaseled out from beneath Bahorel. “No, don’t be shitty. This is important to Jehan.” 

“You talk about Jehan like you know him, or her, or fuck!” Bahorel tripped over his words. “I’m trying to be cool, I really am-” 

“Them,” Jehan leaned forward until they were almost touching Joly. “And if you don’t really hurt Grantaire, I won’t hurt you.” Jehan wasn’t very big. Could Jehan hurt someone? Joly had his doubts. “Joly is one of the rebels. I’m going to choke him in his sleep, so he can’t hurt me.” 

“Joly is a tribute,” Feuilly leapt forward, scrambling to sit between the two of them. “He’s my friend. I’d be sad if you, uh, if you hurt him.” 

“He’s going to hurt me,” Jehan whined, blinking. “He’s going to break into my room and try to take me out the window, but this time Grantaire won’t get there in time, and I’ll die.” 

Joly had never heard of that happening. He’d never thought someone breaking into his home was even a possibility. Why would someone want to hurt Jehan? They seemed like a creepy little kid, but just a child. 

“Let Grantaire deal with this,” Bahorel cut Feuilly off before he could even speak. “He’s the one who brought a kid to the Capital.” 

“What am I dealing with?” Grantaire rubbed his eyes as Joly tried to disappear into the couch. Jehan was back to looking at him, leaning around Feuilly. “Did Jehan have an accident, again?” 

“No,” Jehan replied automatically, voice small. “I’m going to kill Joly. That’s all.” 

“Just some causal murder,” Bahorel howled, slapping his leg as Grantaire dug into his pocket. “If they can't save the Careers, at least have Jehan to keep the spirit alive. Who needs remorse?” 

“Like you didn’t kill all 23 in your game,” Grantaire shoved something into Jehan’s mouth, then tilted their chin up so they swallowed. 

Joly didn’t know why they were talking about killing people. Why would anyone need to kill someone else? People died, sure, but they weren’t supposed to be killed by other people. That was wrong.

“You’ve never killed anyone,” Bahorel snorted. “You wouldn’t get it.” 

“He killed the men who had me,” Jehan turned back to Joly, then added, “and he’ll kill you.” 

“Can we not talk about all the people we’ve had to kill?” Feuilly shouted, digging his heels into the floor. 

“Did you all kill people?” Joly’s voice trembled. “Is that normal here?” 

“Where do you think you are?” Bahorel shook his head as Grantaire went back to his pocket and stuck something in his own mouth. 

“He doesn’t have power,” Feuilly explained, looking like he was going to cry again. “He doesn’t know what the Hunger Games are.” 

“What a great life you had,” Grantaire huffed, turning on the water in the kitchen and splashing his face. “Someone give him the simple explanation before we go to see the Game Maker.” 

“I’m not doing an orgy with him,” Bahorel sneered. “Kill my fucking family, they don’t talk to me anyways.” 

What was an orgy? All of this was so odd. Joly used to think he was smart, that he could keep up with whatever Bulgur and Baah taught him, but he was so out of his depth. 

“We’re going to save the 47th Games,” Grantaire drank from his cupped hands. “It’s a work thing, not pleasure.” 

“They really make you fuck the Game Maker?”

“Yeah, it’s part of the Victor’s prize. I get called into the Capital to service the ladies, or make a video with Grantaire. You can’t say no. They make sure you can’t say no.” 

Joly desperately wanted to know what was happening, but the conversation mowed him over any time he’d start to ask. 

“Look, we’re going to tape interviews, the five of us,” Grantaire muttered, “Jehan is apparently going to be the 12 and 13 year olds, so they have to come. Thernadier can’t interview an empty chair, apparently, so we’re going to read off a script.” 

“I can’t read,” Feuilly groaned. “I don’t want to interview.” 

“What you want doesn’t matter,” Grantaire snapped, turning off the water. “Look, we’ve got to get styled, then we’re going to interview, and tomorrow we’ll be in the arena.” 

“No, fuck them!” Bahorel screamed, rising to his feet. “Why the fuck are you okay with this? I’m not playing another fucking game because peacekeepers can’t tell the difference between an arrow and a bullet.” 

Feuilly just shook his head, eyes squeezed closed. 

“What’s happening?” Joly asked. 

“It’s not going to be a real game! Don’t get us all in trouble! They could easily just claim there was a terrorist attack and have us all killed. We’re not important to them if we don’t do what we’re supposed to. Don’t be stupid, Bahorel.”

“We don’t even look like them. I mean, Jehan sort of looks like the girl from 1, but only sort of.” 

“Was she pretty?” Jehan asked, eyes relaxing just a touch. “Grantaire gave me my sleep medicine, so I have to go to bed.” 

“No, you’re going to come with, and you’re going to do exactly what they fucking tell you, do you understand? I gave you the Morphling so you wouldn’t act like a goddamn psycho in public.” Grantaire pressed the button for the elevator, and pointed toward it. “Everybody, it’s time to fucking go, and you’re not going to complain. We’re going to live through this, and everyone is going to be fucking fine.”

Styling was just being made handsome. The five of them were all together in a big room. They wore more wedding clothes, and were marched into a large empty room with another porch. 

"Wonderful that you could make it," a man with blonde hair and icy blue eyes clapped as they walked in. "Galen Joly, congratulations on your win." 

"Say thank you," Feuilly hissed. 

"I just don't understand," Joly whispered, but the room carried the sound. 

"That's how they are in the agriculture districts," this man sneered, his hair a peppered black and grey. "They're not intelligent." 

"President Gillenormand," Grantaire smiled with clenched teeth. "What an honor and a surprise." 

"Was it 8's tributes who incited the rebellion?" Gillenormand asked. "You never could control your people, could you?" 

"I'm unsure who started it, sir," Grantaire wasn't smiling anymore, but a man adorned in black and white feathers laughed. 

"Send him to the gallows," the man uncrossed his legs, and it seemed like he was coated in feathers. "His fiance ran off to 13." 

"13 isn't real," Bahorel chuckled. "It's an old wives tale." 

"That's classified information, Thenardier," Gillenormand huffed. "But I expect more from 2. Our enemies are numerous." 

Feuilly shifted Joly's weight, but made a conscious effort to keep Joly upright. Joly didn't know exactly what was happening, but something was wrong.

"Mr. Enjolras?" Jehan leaned against Grantaire, their eyes almost completely closed. "That's Jean's dad. He's my dad too, but that's a secret." 

The room went still and quiet, and Thenardier didn't so much as ruffle a feather. The group looked from Jehan to Mr. Enjolras, and they looked similar, Joly supposed; pale, high cheekbones and eyes that always seemed to be watching. 

"I thought I was babysitting your Victor's brat," Thenardier said, hands on his knees. "As far as I knew, all the hot ones bit the bullet. Who's your mom?"

"Jehan Prouvaire," Grantaire wrapped a protective arm around Jehan's shoulders. 

"I live in 8," Jehan giggled into Grantaire's leg. "Rioters burned our house down, and they grabbed me for ransom, but Grantaire saved me. So now we're staying in the Capital."

"Prouvaire," Thenardier chuckled. "I could stand to get a piece of that." 

"Joly needs to sit down," Feuilly announced, looking down at his very shiny black shoes. "He's got a leg problem." 

"You saved a tribute, but it’s the one who’s lame?" Thenardier barked out a laugh, and Feuilly grabbed Joly tighter. "Who saved him?" 

"We were late to training, sir," Feuilly explained. "His assigned peacekeeper neglected to get him ready, so Javert-" 

"So Javert saved the games," Mr. Enjolras nodded. "He's indispensable." Gillenormand nodded.

"So you're going to do interviews," Mr. Enjolras explained. "We have a team who will augment your voice and impose the other tribute's faces on yours." Everyone nodded, so Joly nodded, too. "Then you'll go straight to the arena, and I'll help you stage it. We'll use retractable daggers, and I'll give directions. I'll have the Victors back by the watch party." 

Jehan whispered into Grantaire's leg and Joly could have sworn they asked, "are we going to die?" 

"No one is dying," Gillenormand pursed his lips. "It'd be cruel to kill both of the Game Maker's sons." 

"That's a boy?" Thenardier laughed, and Grantaire whispered something into Jehan's hair. "Two poofs in one family. Fuck, maybe this one will bed a Victor, too. That'd at least something to brag about, even if this one is catching and not pitching." 

Bahorel laughed, but everyone else kept quiet. Was Bahorel mean? Was that why no one else laughed? Jehan whispered into Grantaire’s leg again, and they looked small. They were young, obviously, with their high pitched voice and small frame, but they looked almost hurt. 

“Jehan isn’t a boy or a girl,” Joly said, clearing his throat. When everyone whipped their heads around to look at him, he realized he shouldn’t have said anything. “That’s just what they said.” 

Jehan yawned, then unlatched from Grantaire’s leg. They shuffled across the platform, staring at Joly. Was he going to try to kill him? They all seemed to be fine with killing other people. Joly held his breath as Jehan crept closer. 

“Bahorel is going to be the boy from 1,” Mr. Enjolras announced. “Your build is the closest, and after him Jean-” 

“Jehan,” they yawned, invading Joly’s personal space.

“Jehan,” Mr. Enjolras chewed on the name, grimacing, “will be the girl from 1. Then you’ll each go change as we tape Grantaire as the boy from 2, then Jehan will be the girl.” 

“Am I all the girls?” Jehan asked, pulling at a blue ball gown around their waist. “This is itchy.” 

“Grantaire is the girl from 12,” Mr. Enjolras looked at his card. “And Feuilly is the girl from 6.” 

“You two are girls,” Bahorel snickered, taking the seat across from Thenardier. “I can’t wait to see Grantaire in a dress.” 

“You did a movie where-” Jehan started before Feuilly clawed at their shoulder. “But he’s worn a dress before. I saw it.” 

Thenardier laughed again, as Bahorel crossed his legs, slouching. It wasn’t good to slouch, but they seemed to slouch a lot here. Baah said it’d hurt his back, so he tried not to. He hurt enough on a regular day. 

As Bahorel and Thenardier started talking, Feuilly eased them both onto the edge of the stairs to sit. Joly kicked his legs out in front of him, and stretched a bit, hoping he’d loosen up some. Jehan planted themself right next to Joly, then tapped his knee to get his attention. 

“You were nice to me,” Jehan whispered, catching themself as they leaned forward. “Why?” 

“Because he’s nice,” Feuilly hissed. “Don’t get us in trouble Jehan.” 

“He backtalked Mr. Thenardier,” Jehan said, tugging on Joly’s coat sleeve. Their dress fanned out, covering Joly’s legs. “For me.”

“Because he’s nice,” Feuilly repeated. “Joly won his game.” 

Joly wasn’t sure what he won, or how, but he nodded. Jehan didn’t seem stable, and he didn’t need to be on the receiving end of that. His mom never hurt anyone, except herself, but Baah spent a lot of time explaining how he shouldn’t argue with her. She explained what his mom had as delusions, and if he tried to contradict a delusion, to fight with it, she might think he was bad. 

“I didn’t see it,” Jehan sagged forward like flowers after a flood. “Congratulations.” 

“Thank you,” Joly smiled, hoping he masked how lost he felt. 

Bahorel laughed loudly, then punched Thenardier in the arm. Thenardier’s mouth smiled, but he looked angry. Bahorel didn’t stop, though. He kept laughing and touching until Thenardier got out of his chair and stomped off toward Mr. Enjolras. 

“Take a minute and collect yourself. A party boy from 2 should not get the better of you,” Mr. Enjolras said, shaking his head. 

Bahorel smiled in their direction and Feuilly rolled his eyes. It was quiet until Jehan finally flopped over, tumbling forward. They shrieked, then jumped to their feet, wide eyed. 

“Did you push me!” They screamed, pointing at Joly.

“Jehan, you fell asleep,” Grantaire sighed from the corner. Joly had forgotten Grantaire was even there. He looked nice in his suit, but his skin was the wrong color and too loose on his face. He looked sick. 

People here had different skin colors here, and it was easy enough to accept that as normal. No one’s skin seemed to be the same shade of yellow as crookneck squash, though. Just Grantaire looked like that, even though he seemed like he once maybe looked like Javert, with dark eyes and hair. 

“Okay,” Jehan nodded, blinking a few times before collapsing back into a heap. “I’m tired.” 

“Because Grantaire gave you Morphling,” Feuilly grumbled, wrapping an arm around Jehan’s waist. “You were threatening people.” 

What was Morphling? Joly thought to ask, but Jehan’s eyes bore through him like a drill, and he lost the nerve. If Feuilly and Jehan were both sick, they were different kinds of sick. Joly never felt afraid of Feuilly.

“Was I?” Jehan asked, dazed. “Everyone here’s so nice. Who would I threaten?” 

“Don’t worry about it,” Grantaire sighed. “Just be cute for your interview.” 

“Am I cute?” Jehan tugged at Joly’s sleeve. Their face was painted in a way that suited someone much older than Jehan and it was somewhat unsettling, in truth. “Joly,” they whined, before leaning against him. 

This was a question that had a right and wrong answer. Joly could sense that much. He wasn’t sure if the right answer was yes or no, but he didn’t want to face the consequences of messing it all up.

“Am I cute?” Joly decided to ask. 

Jehan nodded, then curled up in his lap. They wrapped both arms around Joly, fingers interlocked at the base of his neck as they rested their head against his chest. After a few silent moments, they stirred.

“Am I hurting your leg?” 

“No,” Joly relaxed. They were acting like a regular person, just a sleepy child. “You’re alright.” 

“Mm,” Jehan laughed a little, nuzzling against Joly, “I don’t feel like it.” 

“Are you sick?” Joly asked as Bahorel’s laugh bellowed around the room. “I know some plants that might make you feel better.” 

“Do you?” Jehan looked up, eyes watering. “Everything is just confusing. No one likes me.” 

“I like you,” Joly said without thinking. “And I think everything is confusing, too.” 

“No one ever explains anything to me,” Jehan whined, balling Joly’s coat in their fists. “What are we even doing?” 

“I don’t know, either.” 

“You’re interviewing,” Feuilly cut in. “You’re going to talk to Mr. Thenardier, and say whatever they want you to say, then they’re going to change you into a new dress. Then we’re going to go into the arena.” 

“Like the Hunger Games arena?” Jehan sprung up, then tumbled. Feuilly caught them before they hit the floor, then dusted off their dress. “I’m 10. And Grantaire said they’re not going to pick me anyway, because I don’t take Tesserae and-” 

“It’s pretend,” Grantaire crossed his arms in front of him as Jehan dissolved into sobs. “You’re not going to get hurt.” 

“Do people normally get hurt?” Joly asked, chewing his bottom lip. “It’s a game, how do they get hurt?” 

“The kids all kill each other,” Jehan rubbed their eyes, smearing their makeup. “And the last kid alive wins and gets to come home. That kid becomes the Victor, and they get to train other kids from their district on how to win.” 

What the hell? Joly looked to Grantaire who just shrugged. Was this a normal thing for Jehan to say? They seemed to have brief contact with reality, but that wasn’t a game, that was an abomination. There was no reason for anyone to say something like that, much less believe it to be true. 

“It’s only 12 year olds to 18 year olds though, once you’re 19 you don’t have to worry,” Jehan explained, black running down their cheeks. “You won because you killed all those kids.” 

Joly knew not to contradict the delusion. He nodded, even though he didn’t kill anyone and that was one of the most disturbing things he’d ever heard in his life. Just the concept of having kids kill each other was demented. Who would come up with that? Did Jehan just make that up? 

When Thenardier called for Jehan, they forced themselves to the chair, and instantly changed into what seemed like an entirely different person. They giggled and blushed, occasionally complimenting Thenardier’s outfit. 

Something was certainly wrong with Jehan.

“Valjean’s gonna live, right?” Bahorel asked, joining Grantaire. “Like, he wasn’t bleeding that much.” 

“Yeah, it was just ricochete,” Grantaire popped his back then slumped right back over. “I don’t think your mentors were so lucky.” 

“Fuck ‘em,” Bahorel shrugged and Feuilly huffed. Maybe the noise Feuilly made was a laugh, or a sob. It was hard to tell with Feuilly.

“Fuck Valjean for not having to do this,” Feuilly added. “I hate this.” 

“You hate everything,” Bahorel teased, his voice an uneasy lilt. 

Feuilly didn’t argue. 

Everyone else took turns sitting in the chair and talking with Thenardier. They changed outfits after each time, and they acted differently. Sometimes Jehan would stand up and do a spin, showing off their dress, and other times they’d spend most of the conversation with their hands over their face. 

When it was Joly’s turn, Feuilly helped him to the chair. He didn’t realize it’d be so hot under their lights. Those lights, the ones that shone on Thenardier, they felt like the sun. 

“So, Galen Joly, what do you do for fun back in 9?” 

“Blackjack,” Joly smiled, like he saw everyone else do when it was his turn. 

Thenardier laughed, and Joly worried that maybe that was the wrong answer, even if it was truthful. “A boy after my own heart,” Thenardier grinned. “Are you any good?” 

“I win a lot,” Joly shrugged, squirming in the heat. “If that makes me good, then I guess.” 

“What do you win?” Thenardier asked.

“Winner gets to bring in the next load of firewood,” Joly explained, and everyone laughed, except Jehan, who was asleep in Grantaire’s arms. “Bulgur calls them house rules.” 

“So you haul things a lot? Are you strong?” Thenardier flexed his arm, then gestured for Joly to copy him. When he did, Thenardier wrapped his hand around Joly’s bicep and squeezed. “Oh, you’re going to be one to watch out for, aren’t you?” 

“I suppose?” Joly blinked.

“Don’t be so modest,” Thenardier frowned, though his eyes sparkled. “Modesty doesn’t get you very much in the Capital, does it?” Thenardier smiled as he gestured to the empty chairs behind the lights for an uncomfortable amount of time. Mr. Enjolras eventually gestured back, and Thenardier resumed talking. “They seem to love you, and your rustic charm.” 

“Thanks?” Joly said, and Thenardier laughed, again. 

“Thanks, he says. He’s absolutely charming, isn’t he? How old are you?” 

“Sixteen,” Joly answered, trying to see if Thenardier was gesturing to anyone in particular. Joly only saw Mr. Enjolras, and he seemed very unhappy about having to sit there and listen to Thenardier ramble. 

“And he’s a strapping 16, isn’t he?” There was another pause, and Joly forced himself to smile. He was supposed to be smiling, wasn’t he? 

“Well, any strategies for the game you have that you’d like to share?” Thenardier asked, eyebrows raised as he leaned in close. “I promise I won’t tell anyone,” he winked. 

“Win?” Joly said, because he wasn’t even sure what game he was supposed to be playing.

“And there you have it, a simple strategy from a simple boy,” Thenardier announced, rising to his feet. “Galen Joly from District 9.” 

Jehan took the chair, dressed in dark blue, as Bahorel helped him back to his spot off to the side. “Not the worst interview I’ve seen,” Bahorel patted his back, whispering as they sat back down. 

“That’d be Feuilly,” Grantaire said, grinning. “I still can’t believe he just walked off and no one stopped him.” 

“Okay, Mr. I Love My Boyfriend So Much,” Bahorel snorted as Jehan pulled up their dress enough to shop off a pair of strappy raised shoes. 

“I just did what Valjean said,” Grantaire kept smiling, then nudged Bahorel with his toe. “And you, you just sat there and insulted Thenardier until he gave up.” 

“It’s because he’s insufferable,” Bahorel laughed, then covered his mouth when he was too loud. “Did you see him grab Joly’s arm? Strapping 16 year old, like, we get it, you’re not attracted to your wife anymore, but you don’t have to be thirsty in front of the entire nation.” 

“Have you seen his wife though?” Grantaire giggled. “Like if my choices are Mrs. Thenardier or Joly, I’m picking Joly every time.” 

The rest of the interviews went by with Bahorel joking, saying somewhat cruel things about Mr. and Mrs. Thenardier as other people talked. It was almost pleasant, even if Joly wasn’t sure what was happening. 

Grantaire was the last interview, dressed in a frilly pink dress and shoes that made him trip. Feuilly whistled when Grantaire fell and had to brace himself with his hands as he hit the ground. Bahorel shouted, “I can see your panties!” 

Thenardier asked him questions about life in 12, which got answers like, “we mine coal,” and “I don’t know, I know we mine coal.” Bahorel covered his mouth to keep the noise down, and Feuilly snorted every time Grantaire said the word coal. 

He said it more than he needed to, probably. By the end of the interview, Grantaire had mentioned coal, whatever that was, fifteen times. Even Mr. Enjolras, who seemed at least as unhappy as Feuilly, smiled once or twice. 

They were ushered into the changing room once they were done, and each handed a black uniform and a wet wipe for their face. At first they scrubbed themselves quietly, before Grantaire pulled at the outfit in his hands, then grimaced. 

“It’s a water arena,” Grantaire huffed. “This is a swim suit.” 

“How the fuck can you tell that?” Bahorel asked, wiping his face one last time. “It’s just fabric.” 

“You can tell a lot from fabric,” Jehan smiled, “it’s skin tight, and it’s lightweight, so it’s not a winter arena. But it doesn’t seem cut resistant, like you’d need for a jungle.” 

“Are we going swimming?” Joly asked, slipping off his pants. “I like swimming.” 

“I don’t even know how to fucking swim,” Feuilly crossed his arms. 

“Then we’ll teach you, dude,” Bahorel rolled his eyes. “You’re not going to drown.” 

“I just don’t want to go back,” Feuilly snapped. 

“Join the fucking club,” Grantaire said, tossing aside his clothes. “Bahorel and I aren’t less traumatized than you. It’s going to be a nightmare, but we’ll all be there together, and it’ll be fine.”

Once they were all dressed they were given tight fitting shoes without laces and led outside. Feuilly seemed to be the person who helped him from place to place. He wasn’t sure if it was an assigned job, or if that’s just how the delegation of duties fell. Feuilly was considerate while walking, so it suited Joly fine.

Bahorel made an offhand remark about how they gave Jehan, in his words, tits, whatever those were. Jehan simply squeezed their chest, then mumbled about how “these are nice.” 

When Bahorel tried to say something else, Grantaire stuck out his foot and tripped him. 

It happened right in front of the airplane. Joly hadn’t known what that thing was, with the roaring engines that were as loud as a hundred tractors, at least. Feuilly sensing his confusion leaned over and said they had to fly on the airplane to the arena. 

Joly didn’t think people could fly. 

It turned out that they could, but they shouldn’t. The whole experience made Joly feel sick to his stomach. 

“This is the part where they stick you with a tracker!” Bahorel shouted over the noise. He pressed his finger into his forearm, then grimaced, “hurts like a bitch!” 

“I guess they’re faking our vitals,” Grantaire snorted, head between his legs. 

“No one move before the counter finishes!” Mr. Enjolras, dressed in his suit, said, walking down the aisle. “They’re not rigged, but we’re not giving the public any ideas.” 

“Yes sir,” Feuilly’s voice was almost covered by the noise. 

“It’s the ocean,” Mr. Enjolras explained, stopping in front of Grantaire. “I’ve turned off the tides, and in the northwest corner there's a beach. If you get to the beach, fall and stay down for twenty seconds, and we’ll record it as a death. There’s crab muttations that have venom, but we’re not using them for obvious reasons.” 

Venomous crabs? That wasn’t safe. None of this seemed safe. 

“I need Bahorel to go down three times, Grantaire four, Feuilly six, and Jehan ten. Do you understand?” No, Joly didn’t understand at all, but he nodded like everyone else. 

“Please don’t drink the salt water,” he said, looking at Joly and Feuilly. “That’s the water in the ocean, in case you didn’t know.” He didn’t, so it was a good thing that was explained. “The daggers are retractable, meaning when you stab someone, the rubber blade goes into the handle, causing no damage. If you get stabbed, float for twenty seconds, so the CGI team can do what they need to.” 

Mr. Enjolras stopped in front of Joly, then looked down at everyone sitting in their seats, belted down. “We’re going to have a shark bite your leg,” Mr. Enjolras said. “The CGI team is going to do their magic, and that’s the story for your limp, do you understand? You were injured in the games; that’s the story. Do you understand?” 

“No,” Joly said. “Not really at all.” 

“We’ll explain,” Grantaire shouted. “He’s just shell shocked. He’s simple!” Joly was starting to think simple was not a compliment. “Start in a runner’s crouch,” Grantaire kept screaming. “Then when the buzzer sounds, dive into the water.” 

“It’s Grantaire’s job to be his ally,” Mr. Enjolras crossed his arms, running away. “At some point, get him to the Cornucopia and bandage his leg with the seaweed. Make our jobs easier.” 

“I live to serve.” 

“I want to be Joly’s ally!” Jehan shrieked. “Can he have two allies?” 

“We’ll be the career pack,” Bahorel laughed. “The five of us will just pretend to be the careers, plus the girl from 6 and Joly.” 

“Y’all are fucked up,” Feuilly rolled his eyes, but he laughed along.

“You’ll figure it out,” Mr. Enjolras waved them off as Joly’s ears started to pop. “Just give us enough material for a two day game, alright? We’re going to dub over most of what you say, but we’ll be watching.” 

“I’m just going to talk about what a pock faced potato monster Mrs. Thenardier is,” Bahorel cheered. “Make sure Thenardier hears it.” 

“Shut the fuck up,” Grantaire huffed as he unbuckled his seatbelt. “Am I helping Joly to his starting podium?” 

“One of you should,” Mr. Enjolras said, frowning. “I’ll walk, Jehan, was it?” 

“Uh-huh,” Jehan smiled, stumbling a little as they stood. “We used to be neighbors, before I moved in with Grantaire.” 

“But how did you move in with Grantaire?” Mr. Enjolras asked as Joly fumbled with his harness. 

“Oh, I went outside when I saw Enjolras, little Enjolras,” Jehan smiled and everyone stopped moving, even Mr. Enjolras. “And Grantaire had just won his game, and my mom and dad left me alone in the house so they could watch the games, because I wasn’t allowed to go to the Capital before, and Grantaire gave me dinner when I said I was hungry. And then my mom and dad came back and decided they wanted to stay in the Capital.” 

That wasn’t a happy story, but Jehan was grinning and giggling, grabbing onto Mr. Enjolras’ hand. “And then my dad said he wasn’t my dad anyways, and it wasn’t his problem what happened to me, and my mom explained that she really loves my dad and wants to make it work, so they left me at the house. Grantaire gave me three pieces of his bread, and I ate that, then I waited two days before I went and asked for more. And Enjolras and Grantaire were kissing, little Enjolras, and Enjolras said, ‘go home Jehan, no one wants you here!’”

“I wanted you there,” Grantaire explained, wrapping Jehan in a sideways hug. “This is a story you should tell Mr. Enjolras alone, okay?” 

Jehan nodded, skipping off the plane, still holding Mr. Enjolras’ hand. Once they were off the plane, Bahorel whistled, “well, it explains a lot about Jehan.” 

“Doesn’t it?” Grantaire hoisted Joly to his feet. "They hate being alone. I had just convinced them that they could sleep in their own room when the rebels tried to kidnap them. Like, when I’d get home from the Games, they’d be huddled on the couch, waiting. They don’t sleep if I’m not there, it’s nuts.” 

“Enough about Jehan, though,” Grantaire grimaced. “Joly, what do you know about the Hunger Games? How many Games have you seen?” They shambled down the stairs as Joly tried to think of any time he watched a game.

“None?” Joly settled on, though he was unsure of himself. Maybe something was just getting lost in translation. 

“He doesn’t have power,” Feuilly explained. “And Jehan tried to explain it, but the concept is, well, it’s fucked up when you think about it.” 

That was real? Jehan had been telling the truth?

“And that’s why I don’t think about it,” Bahorel snickered. “That’s why they give you so much booze when you win.” 

“You all killed people?” Joly swallowed. “They were going to have me kill people?” 

“I mean, you were gonna die straight away,” Bahorel shrugged. “I wouldn’t have bothered training you.” 

“Don’t say that Bahorel,” Feuilly smacked at him, feebly. “We’re happy it’s you.” 

“No, I mean, you seem nice, fun country charm with less emotional baggage than Feuilly,” Feuilly swatted at Bahorel again, “I just wouldn’t have bet on you.” 

“We’re not allowed to bet,” Grantaire said, shaking his head. “And they didn’t want to kill people. No one is here because they enjoy killing. We just do what we’re told and they clothe and feed us.” 

“It’s not so bad,” Bahorel sounded like he was convincing himself, really. Joly wasn’t convinced at all. 

They were all murderers. He was paling around with three murderers, and then somehow everyone would think he was a murderer too? He didn’t want to play. 

“Look, we have fun,” Grantaire reassured him, putting his free hand on Joly’s back. “This is going to be like a vacation. Just five friends swimming in the ocean.”

“Five friends?” Joly asked as the others split away. “This is a lot.” 

“I know,” Grantaire sighed, opening a door to a small room with a skinny glass tube in the corner. “Look, you can do this. All those other kids, they got shot by peacekeepers, so you get to live. Take the gift you’re given, and be grateful. Try not to think about it.” 

“That girl I came with is dead?” Joly shrieked as Grantaire helped him into the tube. “She’s dead? Like, they killed her?” 

That couldn’t be true. There was no way. He felt like he couldn’t breathe again. This had to be a nightmare. This couldn’t be real. None of this could be real. 

“Dude, I need you to get it together,” Grantaire rubbed his eyes. “Crouch down,” Grantaire showed Joly what to do, how to take the weight off his bad leg, “great, hold that until the buzzer goes off, then jump in the water, and swim toward the middle. I’ll scoot a bag to the edge, so you don’t have to climb out.” 

A countdown started, and Grantaire cursed, then sprinted away. 

None of that made any sense. 

Nothing made sense though.

Joly listened to someone he couldn’t see count backward from ten, and he held his odd crouch, even as the floor started to rise like they were in an elevator. He’d wake up, and Bulgur would tell him he just had a fever. That’s all this was, a fever dream. 

A very scary fever dream, but just a dream. 

When the floor stopped moving, they were surrounded by water. Joly turned his head to the left, and Jehan waved, standing straight up. He spotted Feuilly, three places away, but he couldn’t see Bahorel or Grantaire. 

At least Feuilly was here. Feuilly was nice. Did Feuilly really kill someone? He didn’t seem scary, but had he killed people? Joly gnawed on his lip as he looked at the big silver thing in the middle. 

Another voice from the sky started to count backward from ten. On four, Jehan shrieked, then giggled. They laughed up until the counting stopped and what Joly could only assume was the buzzer. 

He dove in head first, hoping he didn’t hit a rock. It seemed like deep water, like at the lake Bulgur drove him too once. It was salty in his mouth, and he instantly understood why Mr. Enjolras had warned them not to drink it. It was disgusting. 

“Race you,” Jehan smirked, popping up from the water. 

That could be fun. If none of this was real anyway, he could race. And he didn’t even have to go slow to be nice. Joly was the first one to the center. He hung onto the edge until he saw Feuilly thrashing and coughing.

That was not how you were supposed to swim. 

He raced back as he watched Feuilly stop moving. With Feuilly under his arm, he swam back to the center. It was harder to swim holding another person, especially a person who was dead weight. 

Feuilly didn’t even seem to be breathing.

Was this just a dream to show off everything he’d learned from Bulgur? He knew CPR, but he never thought he’d have to use it. Grantaire told him not to climb to the center, but Joly had to help Feuilly. 

“Is he okay?” Jehan asked, dripping water all over a black bag. “Can I help?” 

“Pull him out,” Joly instructed as Bahorel and Grantaire reached the center. “Flat on his back.” 

No one said a word as Joly did CPR. Two breaths into his mouth, then thirty chest compressions, then another two breaths. He got through four cycles before Feuilly sputtered and gasped. 

He turned Feuilly onto his side, and realized the entire group was watching him. 

“He’s not getting back in the fucking water!” Grantaire shouted to no one as Feuilly vomited. “Bahorel and I will divide his deaths, okay? But he fucking sits in the Cornucopia until you come fucking get us!” 

“Jehan do thirteen and Grantaire do six,” the sky answered as Feuilly sat up, eyes bloodshot. “Take him to the beach; we won’t use the crabs.” 

Grantaire dug through black bags until he found a knife and a metal circle. “Someone get the water into one bag and the food into another,” Grantaire explained, sounding bored. “Everybody take a knife. We’ll redo the start of the games once we get Feuilly to solid ground.” 

“We’re not allowed to leave Feuilly alone,” Bahorel shook his head. “We just all need to take turns swimming into the middle.” 

“No, we leave Joly with Feuilly, because Joly doesn’t need to go to the bloodbath anyway.” 

“The bloodbath?” 

“That’s what they call the start of the Games,” Jehan chirped, jumping back into the water. They breached the surface like a mermaid and floated on their back. “Lots of kids die there. No one but Grantaire made it out of his, and Bahorel killed all 23 people in his.” 

“23 people?” Joly gasped, rubbing Feuilly’s back gently. It wasn’t to help him breathe, it was just so he’d feel better. 

“20 of them were caught in a trap,” Feuilly coughed, sitting up. “They would have died anyway.” 

Bahorel leaned so close to Feuilly that it looked like they were about to kiss, then hissed, “did you just do that shit on purpose?” 

“It doesn’t matter if he did,” Grantaire said, pushing Bahorel away. “Glad you’re back with us Feuilly.” 

“I didn’t,” Feuilly huffed, coughing again. “Fuck, swimming is hard.” 

“I think it’s easy,” Jehan giggled, dunking back under the water. 

“You aren’t getting a two day game out of this,” Grantaire shouted, looking up as he slung two bags over his shoulders and handed a third to Bahorel. “You might get four usable hours.” 

“Give us what you can,” the voice said, resigned. “If you’re going to the beach, do the shark attack there."

“Aye aye,” Grantaire sneered, hopping off the platform back into the water. “Can you help Feuilly to the beach?” 

“You’re going to make me get back in the water?” Feuilly shrieked. “Fuck all of y’all. No. I’m not. No. I almost died!” 

“Joly and I will help!” Jehan said, climbing back onto the platform to jump back into the water. “It’s so fun here!” 

“It’s so fun here,” Grantaire repeated, sarcastically. “I can’t believe we’re staging a Hunger Games.” 

“This can’t be real,” Joly snickered, slipping back into the water. “This is all too crazy to be real. I must have a fever.” 

In the end, Joly was the one to carry Feuilly to the beach. And he didn’t carry him, so much as Feuilly clung to his back, arms wrapped around his neck nearly choking him for the entire hour swim. Why would anyone create this place? 

What in his mind made this? He understood most of his dreams. If he was covered in snakes, he probably saw a snake that day underneath a bag of seed, and it scared him. Usually, it was just snakes or mice, or something his mom did. He never imagined the ocean, which was something Bulgur explained to him a few times and never seemed real.

And he certainly never imagined killing people. Why would anyone want to kill another person? They’d die eventually, anyway. Everyone died and went to heaven if they were good, so there was no reason to hurt anyone else.

Feuilly kissed his cheek when he could touch the bottom, then raced off toward the sand. It was easier to swim than walk, and Joly wasn’t really in a rush to be unable to move alone. 

“You four, create a camp, and then Joly, swim close, then thrash around, and Grantaire will pull you in.” 

This was dumb, but he could do that. They all seemed to just do whatever the voice in the sky said. 

At least the water was nice. Joly floated on his back, staring at the sky, as the group on land clamoured. This was the oddest dream he ever had; the sun wasn't even in the right place. It was moving backwards in the sky and it didn't hurt his eyes. 

"Swim in," Grantaire shouted, "I'm going to swim towards you with a knife then you stab me." 

"I'm going to stab you?" Joly asked, bewildered. "Me?" 

"Yeah," Grantaire swam toward him, two daggers in his hands. "Stab me. We're the final two, you just got bitten by a shark and you're bleeding out. Stab me to win." 

"Stab you?" Joly repeated. 

Grantaire pressed the blade into Joly's arm as he treaded water. Joly braced himself for a rush of pain, but it didn't hurt at all. "It's fake. Just do it so you can hang out and eat trail mix with Feuilly for the rest of this." 

"What's trail mix?" Joly asked, yawning a little. "Is it good?" 

"Yeah, it's nuts, seeds, and dried fruit. It's all we've got until they come get us, so I hope you like it." 

"They didn't give us food?" Joly asked, deciding it was easier to float on his back. He gripped the blade Grantaire gave him, then watched as Grantaire swam away. 

"I need you to trash like you're being attacked," Grantaire explained. "Like something has your leg and won't let go." 

Joly did his best, splashing water all over the place. Grantaire swam close, and Joly, following instructions, socked Grantaire right in the eye with his dagger. 

"Jesus Christ!" Grantaire shouted, covering his eye, and floating flat on his back. Joly kept trashing, until Grantaire told him to stop. "I hope that works for you!" 

"Affirmative," the voice from the sky called. 

"You didn't have to hit me in the face," Grantaire grumbled, swimming to shore. 

Joly followed, stopping before he'd have to walk, and mumbled an apology. He thought he was just doing what Grantaire said. 

"Whatever, they got their ending," Grantaire swung an arm around Joly's waist and helped him into the beach. "Do you need some water?" 

Joly shivered as they reached Feuilly, but nodded. Water sounded nice. 

"Are you cold?" Grantaire said suspiciously. "Feuilly, is it cold?" 

"No," Feuilly shook his head, kicked back on the sand. "Sorta hot. Why? Are you two cold?" 

"I think I have a fever," Joly announced, wrapping his arms around himself. "This has to be a fever." His head ached like he was getting sick, and so did his joints. And everything was so murky, this is what a fever felt like. 

Grantaire touched his wet hand to Joly's forehead, then frowned. He shook the water off, then touched again. "I can't tell. I'm already in withdrawal." 

"What's withdrawal?" Jehan asked, lulling Bahorel toward them. "Bahorel, what's withdrawal?" 

"You take enough Morphling to have withdrawals?" Bahorel raised an eyebrow, then clucked his tongue. "For fuck's sake Grantaire." 

"What are they?" Joly asked, worried that maybe he got Grantaire sick. Illnesses passed from person to person, and Joly could have been infectious. He gave Feuilly mouth to mouth, would Feuilly get sick too?

"They happen when you take a drug too much," Bahorel explained, glaring at Grantaire. "When you're an addict and you stop your substance, you get physically ill." 

That didn't mean anything to Joly, but Jehan seemed horrified. Was he already in cognitive decline due to fever? He must have been, because that all sounded like nonsense.

"Quit lecturing," Feuilly growled, eyeing Grantaire. "Are you going to die?" 

"Nah," Grantaire rubbed his temple as Jehan wrapped both their arms around Grantaire's waist. "I'm just gonna vomit and get chills and be in a shitty mood. That's it. I'll be fine." 

That didn't sound fine to Joly. 

"Look, I need to do the other five deaths they need from me in the next three hours," Grantaire explained. "I need Bahorel and Jehan to come with me back to the Cornucopia. If we don't come back before night, assume I'm too sick to swim." 

"You want me to leave Feuilly alone?" Bahorel shifted his weight in the sand as Joly sniffled. "I'm not doing that." 

Something dinged as Bahorel stood there, hands on his hips. Jehan jumped toward something silver in the sky, then snickered when they finally caught it in the palm of their hand. 

They opened the canister, then handed it to Grantaire. 

"They sent Morphling," Grantaire said, somewhat surprised. He popped it into his mouth, then swallowed. "And they sent," he dug his hand around, yanking out a thermos, "soup for Joly." 

"The Morphling might have been for Joly," Bahorel glared. "He's actually sick." 

"Lay off, Bahorel," Feuilly said, grabbing the thermos from Grantaire's hands. "Send a towel and a blanket?"

"Send cold and flu medication," Grantaire shouted. "And thank you."

"Just give us enough material for a Game."

Feuilly didn’t know how much material they needed for a game, but he wasn’t going to get back in the goddamn water. He had what Javert had described as subpar survival instincts, but he knew that the ocean was not for him. He knew that before jumped into the water.

“Give Joly some soup,” Grantaire said as he wadded back into the water, Jehan clutching around his waist. “I think he just over did it.” 

“I have a fever,” Joly smiled, eyes closed. “None of this is real.” 

Wouldn’t that be fucking lovely? Feuilly couldn’t imagine a better scenario then he was just a figment in the imagination of some farm boy out in 9. He could just cease to exist with no consequences. 

“You want me to leave him with Joly?” Bahorel stood at the edge of the water, hands on his hips. “What’s Joly going to do if he jumps back in the water, huh?” 

“I’m not going to jump in the water.” 

“You didn’t even scream for help!” Bahorel shouted. He held his fists at chest level, like he was going to box Feuilly for nearly drowning. Like a dose of physical punishment would just teach him that lesson. 

“Drowning is silent,” Joly yawned, falling back onto the sand. “Bulgur said drowning people just go under, then don’t come back up.” 

“That’s what the books say,” Grantaire called out as he started to swim away, Jehan trailing close behind. “Look, we just need to make a bunch of dives for the bloodbath, and I’d like to get that over with before the ever benevolent Capital changes their minds on sending supplies.” 

“Before you go back into withdrawal,” Bahorel sneered, rolling his eyes. “Feuilly could kill himself.” 

“He could,” Grantaire shouted, treading water almost out of sight. 

“I won’t!”

Not that anyone would believe him. He could think about something without doing it. People thought about escaping to the Wilds all the time, but they didn’t usually. He had impulse control, even if it was put there by the Capital’s threats. 

He wasn’t so selfish that he’d take Grantaire and Bahorel with him. Who’d even take care of Jehan if Grantaire wasn’t around? That kid needed someone. And a picc line of Morphling or some other sort of sedative. Jehan would either starve to death or kill a bunch of people if left unsupervised, there was no in between. 

“He says he won’t!” Grantaire’s head dunked under water as Jehan climbed on his back. “Okay! Okay! You got me! You win!” 

“I win!” Jehan’s giggles were garbled by water as Grantaire threw them. “Jehan wins the Hunger Games and everyone loves them so much!” 

“And the crowd goes wild,” Grantaire deadpanned. “Come on Bahorel.” 

“I don’t want Feuilly to die,” Bahorel stared at him. 

“I’ll make sure,” Joly’s teeth chattered and Feuilly pressed the warm canister of soup into his hands. “Go play with them.” 

“Yeah, Bahorel,” Feuilly rolled his eyes, “go play.” 

“Pull Joly and Feuilly out!” Bahorel shouted at the sky, presumably hoping Mr. Enjolras was still hovering around. “Feuilly’s supposed to be with Javert!” 

“They didn’t clear you?” Mr. Enjolras called, obviously annoyed. It wasn’t like Feuilly was thrilled to still be monitored around the clock. “Feuilly?” 

“No,” Feuilly sighed, kicking at the sand where he sat. “No, sir.” 

“Why wasn’t Javert with you?” Mr. Enjolras asked. 

“Because Valjean got fucking shot!” Grantaire shouted from somewhere far away. 

“Is Valjean deceased?” The Game Maker sounded almost worried. If Feuilly thought that Mr. Enjolras had a heart or a soul or a conscience, or really anything a normal human being had, he would have said he was worried.

“Nah, a stray bullet hit him in the arm,” Bahorel shrugged. “They just wanted him to go to surgery, and he didn’t want any of the peacekeepers that just shot at him to be the ones to walk him to medical.” 

Just a stray bullet. Why were there even bullets at training? They were just a bunch of rowdy kids. And sure, a rebel group in 11 had tried to raid his house in May, but they weren’t successful. And Feuilly watched them be hung in the square via satellite.

Their bodies were probably still in front of the market, as a warning, or whatever. 

The ceiling broke apart, and a hovercraft dangled a metal cage via a thick chain over the beach. Feuilly didn’t want to ride one of those again, even if he hadn’t killed anyone this time.

Against his will, he noticed that the slats on the sides would probably be wide enough for him to shimmy through. He didn’t want to do that, but it was an option. If he waited until he was up near the top, he could probably twist his body in the right way so he’d land on the sand, and he’d likely die. 

And once he saw something like that, he couldn’t unsee it, even if he had no intention of doing it. 

“Can Bahorel ride up with me?” Feuilly asked, fingers pressed into the sand. “To help with Joly.” 

“I can walk,” Joly sipped at his soup, then spat it out all over his chest. “I can do anything in a dream.” 

“Fine,” Mr. Enjolras said, the worry in his voice gone. “Make it quick.” 

“Grab him?” Feuilly asked, shakily climbing into the open cage. He could definitely fit through those bars, if he tried. He might even do it by accident. Was this the same cage that lifted him last year? It had to be. 

He could have slipped right through and plummeted to the ground. 

Bahorel scooped Joly into his arms, then joined Feuilly. It wasn’t that Feuilly was scared, because he wasn’t, but it was unnerving. Joly stirred, but didn’t fight to get down. 

Could he tell Bahorel about what he was thinking? Would he yell? 

Probably. 

Bahorel would assume he did something wrong, that he wanted this, like any human on the face of the fucking planet could want to be this fucking miserable. They inched off the ground, and Feuilly steeled himself, locking his knees. He just wouldn’t move until they were safely in the plane. 

He could keep it to himself. 

“You could have carried him.” 

Feuilly could have. Joly wasn’t that heavy, and Javert had him work out, to improve his mood, whatever that shit meant. He told himself he was doing it to better train his tributes, because it sure as fuck didn’t make him happy. He was pleasantly muscled, he supposed. 

“You didn’t need my help,” Bahorel continued. 

“If I asked for your help, then I need it,” Feuilly whispered, his cheeks hot. 

“Why won’t you tell me what’s going on, dude?” Bahorel sighed, shifting Joly in his arms like he was a simple bag of flour. 

“Because.” 

Feuilly pretended that was an answer. In return, Bahorel didn’t even pretend not to be angry. Once they were safely in the plane, Bahorel buckled Joly into his seat, glaring daggers in Feuilly’s direction. That’d serve him for needing anyone. 

“I know you did that shit on purpose,” Bahorel hissed, breath hot on Feuilly’s ear as Feuilly walked to his seat. “I’m not fucking dumb.” 

“I didn’t,” Feuilly wasn’t convinced he didn’t do it on purpose. Maybe he subconsciously knew he would panic, so he jumped in, hoping it’d happen. Maybe he wished it into being. “I don’t think I did.” 

“You don’t think?” Bahorel pushed Feuilly down, then forced his harness over his head. “You don’t think?” 

“Apparently not,” Feuilly stared at Joly’s shoes to avoid the eye contact. “I’m sorry.” 

Bahorel took a deep breath, then shook his head, frowning. “I want to be your,” he hesitated running his hands over his eyes before stepping back into the cage, “your friend, but if this is what,” he paused again, “friendship looks like with you, I don’t think I want it.” 

Shame bloomed in Feuilly’s chest.

“I’ll be your friend,” Joly singsonged, falling against his restraints like a threadbare rag doll. “I’ve only ever been friends with Bulgur, Baah, and my mom, but we can be friends, too!” 

“It’s just a lot of work, Joly,” Feuilly sighed as he purposely looked at the rows of empty seats to avoid Bahorel. “I’m too much work. Everyone else will be your friend though, you seem cool.” 

“You’d be fine if I was friends with Joly?” 

What choice did he have? If Bahorel wanted to fuck Joly, then that was their business. Feuilly wasn’t even allowed to be alone long enough to kiss unsupervised at his victory party. “Do what you want.” 

“We can all be friends together!” Joly laughed, cheeks flushed. 

“That’d be too gay,” Bahorel’s lips twitched in a smile before he scowled at Feuilly again. “I’ll see you at the watch party.” 

“The president is canceling the watch party,” Mr. Enjolras’ voice boomed. “Apparently, it’s easier to say you all got the flu than explain why all of the dead Victor’s are missing, and why Valjean is in a sling. You’ll go back to your Capital apartments until further notice.” 

“Don’t send Feuilly back to his apartment alone,” Bahorel shrugged as he climbed back into the cage. “Congrats on the win, Joly.” 

“Congrats on the friendship,” Joly laughed. “We’re all going to be such good friends, and we’re going to have so much fun!” 

The guilt Feuilly felt blossoming in his chest lessened as Bahorel descended back toward the ocean. “Bye,” he said once he was sure Bahorel wouldn't hear.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“That soup was really good,” Joly sighed happily, cradling his bowl with both hands as Grantaire took it from him. “Thank you.” 

“You must like soup,” Grantaire grinned as Jehan laid at their feet, spread upon the rug. “Like every time someone gives you a new bowl, it’s always really good.” 

It was just fantastic soup. That was Joly’s only explanation.

“Shush,” Jehan batted Grantaire’s leg with an open palm, then pointed at a lit up box across the room. “I wanna watch the Game.” 

“I don’t,” Feuilly whispered, pressing the back of his hand into Joly’s forehead. “Fever’s not too bad.” 

“I gave him a fever reducer and a quarter of a Morphling,” Grantaire shrugged. “He should be in a good fucking mood.” 

“I am,” Joly let his head fall against Grantaire’s shoulder, then rested his eyes. “I’m in such a good mood.” 

"You gave him Morphling?" Bahorel complained from the kitchen table. It sounded an awful lot like whining, but Joly didn't call him on it. 

"A quarter of one," Grantaire clarified as he pushed Joly upright. "It's hardly anything." 

"Yeah, Grantaire gives me whole ones," Jehan kicked their feet, then pointed back at the light box. "Don't be a Jabberjay, Bahorel." 

"Who taught you that?" Grantaire asked, nudging Jehan with his shin. "Jabberjay?" 

"When I went to school my teacher said not to be friends with me because I'm a Jabberjay." 

"What's a Jabberjay?" Joly yawned as a man's voice counted on screen. He was in the box, which Feuilly explained as a TV. They were photos that moved, and that made them videos. 

"A Jabberjay is someone no one likes," Jehan said, their voice small. 

That was impossible. Everyone was quiet, when they should have been correcting Jehan. "That can't be what a Jabberjay is because I like you," Joly explained.

"Jabberjay is a bird that mimics people's voices. Don't call people that." 

"Is it bad?" Jehan asked as the video buzzed. Joly on the screen jumped into the water, and so did a bunch of other kids. 

"Yes, and you're not one," Grantaire said flatly as the other kids on screen held each other's heads underwater. "Glad to know the dunking was good for something." 

"It's convincing," Bahorel remarked as something boomed.

Joly only jumped a little. 

The booming sound kept going as one of the girls scampered onto the silver thing they saw at the beach. Was this them? Joly blinked, and then a girl stabbed a boy in the chest and blood spurted from his chest. 

This couldn't have been them. 

No one was trying to hurt Joly. He grabbed a bag, then swam away. Another boom happened, then another. 

"I can't watch this," Feuilly grabbed Joly's right hand. "I can't do it." 

"You can, quit whining," Bahorel laughed, and Joly felt the burn of anger. 

He remembered Bahorel telling Feuilly he didn't want to be friends. And he remembered that Feuilly used the same broken voice to explain that he thought he was hard to be friends with. He wasn't, not even a little. Feuilly brought him soup and water when he was in bed, and didn't even worry if he was going to catch whatever Joly had. 

"Bahorel, if you don't want to be his friend, don't talk to him," Joly's voice was uncharacteristically stern. 

Grantaire groaned, then reluctantly asked, "what the fuck happened?" 

"Bahorel told Feuilly he didn't want to be friends. And he yelled at Feuilly, and then Feuilly was sad, and if Bahorel wants to be mean, I can't stop him, but he can go be mean somewhere else. I'm just going to be Feuilly's friend even if it's hard, which it's not. And anyways, sometimes things are hard and you do them anyway." Joly spoke too fast, but he couldn't help himself.

That loud boom went off four more times as Joly turned to look at Feuilly. Feuilly didn't look at him, instead deciding to pick at the dirt under his nails. That was fine though. Feuilly didn't have to look anywhere he didn't want to. 

"Feuilly is my friend," Jehan said, tapping Joly's leg with their hand. "Feuilly is my best friend. Don't take my friends." 

"You can be friends with more than one person," Grantaire groaned as the video pulled in close to a girl thrashing in the water then going still. "People have multiple friends." 

"I only have Feuilly," Jehan snarled, sitting up. "Grantaire has Enjolras-" 

"Don't talk about Enjolras!" Grantaire shouted and slapped the side of the couch. The noise made Jehan whimper, and that whimper turned into a wail. "We're all fucking friends, okay? All the Victors are friends, and everyone is fucking friends with you, Jehan. Okay? Just quit bitching about such dumb shit!" 

Feuilly squeezed Joly's hand as Jehan shrieked. That's what friends did, wasn't it? They held hands. 

"I just want Feuilly to be my friend!" Jehan cried into their hands as they kicked their feet on the rug. "Feuilly is my friend!" 

"Have a fucking tantrum, why don't you?" Bahorel laughed. "My name's Jehan," he mocked, making his voice high, "I want to have all the friends, but I can't be nice or normal for ten straight minutes." 

Jehan shook on the ground as they sobbed, completely covering their face. They were louder than the TV, and everyone was just pretending they weren't.

Joly couldn't just pretend. 

"Jehan," Joly cooed, "hey, no one is upset with you." 

Unfortunately, Joly's soothing voice was completely covered by Bahorel. "Waah, I'm Jehan! No one likes me because I'm a crybaby! Waah!"

No one was stopping Bahorel. Was this just how Bahorel was? This wasn't acceptable. Grantaire took a drink of something as Jehan went stiff as a board, but kept screaming. 

"Do something," Feuilly leaned over Joly toward Grantaire. "They're so loud." 

"Go to your room," Grantaire flipped Jehan with his foot, then tapped him again when he didn't move. "I said go to your room." 

"I," Jehan gasped, "don't," they gasped again, clawing at their face, "like," they failed to choke back a sob, then rushed, "to be alone." 

"Come back when you want to be normal," Grantaire shrugged. "Go!" 

"My name is Jehan and I don't like to be alone," Bahorel laughed like anything he said was funny. "Grow up, man." 

"Not," Jehan dry heaved as they slunk away, head hung low, "a man." The door to their room slammed, and the crying was muffled, but it didn't stop. 

Bahorel and Grantaire were laughing. Why? Joly didn't understand what was funny. 

"Help me to Jehan's room, please," Joly whispered to Feuilly as they banged on the closed door and begged to watch with everyone else.

"I can be good!" 

"The kid's not right," Feuilly sighed as he got up, "but this is cruel." 

"You want to talk Jehan out of a meltdown, be my guest," Grantaire swept his arm toward the door, sloshing his red drink on the couch. He dug into his pocket, then pressed something into Feuilly's hand. "This'll put them to bed."

"I will, thank you," Joly sniffled, then wiped his nose with his sleeve, which was disgusting, but he didn't have time to get a tissue. Feuilly steadied him as he stood, and Bahorel made a few comments in that same high pitch voice, soft enough where Joly couldn't hear him. 

Feuilly knocked twice on Jehan's door, and Jehan called out, "I'm not here," between sobs. 

"I took the lock off," Grantaire drained his cup, then winced as the boom happened again.

"How many shark attacks do you think they do?" Bahorel laughed as Feuilly nudged open the door. 

"Jehan, it's just me and Joly." 

"I'm not here," Jehan shouted, their voice incredibly tense, like they were just about to cry. "I went back to 8, to go live with my mom and dad!"

Feuilly looked at Joly, like he was lost, and Joly shrugged. This was easy. Jehan had a delusion and needed to be comforted because it was scary. Joly did this all the time. 

"We sent a truck to pick you up," Joly said through the door. "Remember? It brought you back here with us." 

"You sent me a truck?" Jehan sniffled as they cracked the door open. 

"Yeah?" Feuilly looked to Joly, who nodded. "Yeah, we sent a truck. We missed you." 

"Did Bahorel and Grantaire miss me?" Jehan asked as they retreated to their bed, eyes red and swollen.

"Grantaire missed you so much he had us bring you get better medicine," Feuilly explained, leading them both inside. "Do you want it?" 

"If Grantaire misses me why isn't he here?" Jehan's bottom lip quivered as Feuilly and Joly sat on the edge of the bed. 

"He had to work," Feuilly said, frowning. 

"Work is no fun," Joly sighed, for emphasis. "But sometimes you just have to work."

The TV in the corner of the room showed someone, a girl, swimming. It was odd that it was on. Why would Jehan turn it on if they didn't know where they were?

Feuilly held out a pill and Jehan swallowed it. 

"Will Grantaire come back after work?" Jehan asked, rubbing their eyes with an orange blanket. 

"Of course," Joly tucked a wisp of hair behind Jehan's ear, "he misses you. He wishes he was with you right now." 

"My mom and dad don't miss me," Jehan sniffed. 

Joly started to shake his head, to correct the delusion because their mom and dad had to miss them, but Feuilly squeezed his leg to cut him off. "And that makes them wrong," Feuilly said loudly. "That's why we sent the truck."

"I don't want to be alone," Jehan snaked an arm around Feuilly's waist as they flopped over. 

"That's why we sent the truck," Feuilly repeated. 

Feuilly was really good at this. It took Joly a lot of practice to get to this level, and Feuilly was picking it up like it was chopping wood or some other silly task. Joly was either a great teacher or Feuilly was extremely smart. Both choices made him feel proud. 

"Will you always send a truck?" 

"Always," Feuilly reassured them, rubbing circles on their back. 

"Will you stay with me?" 

"Yes," Joly immediately said. 

"Yeah, of course kiddo," Feuilly replied. "Anything you want." 

"Can we talk?" Jehan arranged their blanket to cover their entire body, "until the sleep medicine works?" 

"Sure," Feuilly patted the lump as Joly watched the girl swimming. It wasn't very interesting, but at least nothing violent was happening. 

"Did you drown on purpose?" Jehan asked, peeking out from the covers. 

"No one drowns on purpose," Joly replied without a second thought. "It was just an accident." 

"Feuilly is sick," Jehan whispered, like they were telling a nasty secret about someone. 

"My mom is sick," Joly shrugged as the girl just kept swimming. He knew it was Jehan, just dressed up in ways he didn't understand, but it was so much swimming for a little kid. 

"Feuilly is head sick." 

That made a lot of sense. He suspected, but to hear it said aloud made things click into place. Feuilly was always being watched because he was sick, that's why everyone talked about watching him.

"My mom is head sick," Joly turned back and Jehan was sitting up, staring with wide eyes. "Lots of people get all sorts of sick." He thought about the mean things Bahorel said, and he knew Feuilly was sick. "And being sick doesn't make you harder to be friends with or anything, it just means you're sick." 

Jehan nodded and Feuilly covered his face with his hands, shrinking away. 

"I want Joly to be my friend," Jehan yawned, falling backwards. "Feuilly, make him be my friend, too." 

"I want to be your friend," Joly smiled, patting Jehan's leg. "Grantaire said we are all friends." 

"If Grantaire said," Jehan curled up in a ball, then closed their eyes. "Whatever Grantaire says is true." 

"And Grantaire loves you," Feuilly rushed out, tripping over his words a little. "He told me to tell you. He said it was really important that you hear it." 

"I love Grantaire," Jehan nodded against their pillow. 

"We all love you so much, but it's time to sleep," Feuilly said, tucking the blanket around Jehan's chin. "Goodnight."

"Love you, too," they mumbled, "stay?" 

"We'll stay," Joly whispered. "Love you, goodnight." 

They both sat on the bed until Jehan's breathing even out and their eyelids stopped fluttering. 

"At least they didn't ask me to read poetry," Feuilly snickered softly. "I can barely manage four letter words." 

"What's reading?" Joly asked, and Feuilly clasped him on the back, laughing harder. 

The room was quiet, almost silent if it weren't for the sounds of the ocean and their breathing. It was peaceful.

"Is your mom really sick?" Feuilly asked as they both lounged back and turned to face the TV. It was just the same girl swimming. "Or did you make that up?"

"Yeah," Joly nodded, even though he knew Feuilly wasn't looking, "she's always been sick." 

"Does she hurt herself?" As Joly thought about how to answer, Feuilly squirmed a bit, then added, "sometimes I think about hurting myself and I can't stop." 

"Hmm," Joly thought more about what Feuilly just told him. "Well, I don't think she thinks about it. She gets hurt because she doesn't think. Like she gets lost outside, or cuts her hand on the lawn mower. Bulgur says she doesn't know where she is, and we just have to agree with her to get her to come home. It's okay to lie to keep someone safe." 

"I think something else is wrong with me," Feuilly sighed. 

"It's still just sick," Joly said as the girl on the TV treaded water for a few minutes. "Like, your sick and Jehan's sick are both just sick, and the least any of us can do is make sure you don't get hurt." 

Feuilly exhaled, and Joly nodded, because he knew what he said was true. 

"Can I tell you when I feel sick?" Feuilly asked. 

"Of course," Joly laughed a little, because it felt so silly for Feuilly to ask. "You help me walk everywhere; you can tell me whatever you want." 

"Just don't get mad," Feuilly whispered and Joly nodded again. 

"I try not to get angry, but Bahorel made me very upset. I wouldn't get mad at you just saying you felt sick. That would be odd." 

The girl on the TV had something biting at her legs, and she screamed, but the thing didn't stop. It kept tearing into her until the boom went off and the video went to two boys, both swimming. 

"You're really nice, you know?" Feuilly remarked after a long stretch of silence. "I wish I liked you instead of Bahorel." 

Feuilly didn't like him? That was strange. "You don't like me?" 

"I mean like like," Feuilly explained, flustered. "Like, I want to kiss Bahorel and stuff, and I don't want to do that with you." 

"Oh," that was a relief, so Joly sighed. "We're friends, but you want to marry Bahorel."

"I don't want to marry him!" Feuilly lightly hit Joly's shoulder, and it didn't really hurt. Joly rubbed it anyway. "There's more steps between being someone's friend and marrying them. Like, there's a lot between that." 

"Best friends?" Joly asked, remembering Jehan using that phrase. 

"No, dude," Feuilly smiled, "you can go on a date, be dating, be someone's boyfriend, or be their fiance. All that happens before you get married." 

"Well, what are you and Bahorel?" 

"I don't know," Feuilly shrugged. "Nothing, I guess, but we kissed in a bathroom-"

"Gross!" Joly screeched. "You kissed Bahorel in a bathroom? Like in front of the chamber pot and everything? Did it still have pee in it? Gross! I'm not gonna be anyone's husband if I have to kiss in a bathroom!" 

Once Joly got over how absolutely disgusting that was, and briefly mourned how he would never get married, they settled back into silence. 

Joly got attacked by the thing swimming in the water at the end, but he cut another boy with his dagger. A voice called out, "Galen Joly, winner of the 47th Hunger Games," as he thrashed about, spraying pinkish water everywhere. 

Joly still wasn't entirely sure on exactly what he won.

If you liked this, leave me a comment to let me know. Sometimes writing can feel like screaming into the void, and it's always nice when the void talks back.