Title: see the veins of my city
Work ID: 32975401
Author: tigerlilycorinne
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables) (background)
Additional Tags: Ancient Gods AU, Stupid Divine Politics, POV Jean Valjean, Mutual Pining, Canonical Character Death, but only some of them, Because some of them are immprtal gods... so, Love Confessions, Fluff, AUgust - Freeform, AU-gust 2021
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert, God of Order; and Valjean, God of Mercy, are both distressed by the rising discontent in the country of France, although for different reasons. Javert is annoyed that the building revolutionary effort is putting strain on his system, and Valjean just wants everyone to be happy. 
Mortal war and immortal bickering ensue, but it's all a whole lot fluffier than it sounds.

Work text:

“They are unhappy.”

Valjean peers down at the crowded villages beneath them, kneeling at the soft edge of the cloud and watching the poor shout their wares on street corners. He can see the humble huts for the lucky, the piles of blankets on the streets for the unlucky. There is the stench of sickness and hunger and death. 

To him, the world hurts.

Javert joins him at the edge of the cloud, the water vapor crystalizing into ice beneath his feet. He doesn’t see the same thing when he looks down, Valjean knows. He sees the fortified walls of the castle in the distance, the efficiency of the supply chain from farms to the table. The straight roads from ports to the people filled with horse-drawn carts. 

To him, the world works.

“There is no world in which everyone can be happy.” Javert stands ramrod straight, his long hair fluttering in the wind, tangling behind him. Javert frowns, and the wind quiets, parting around him as if he is a rock in a stream. “It is foolish to attempt to create one.”

The ends of Javert’s hair are likely still tangled, and Valjean thinks of running his fingers through it and working through the knots, but it’s a ridiculous thought. Javert shakes his head, and his dark hair untangles itself. The god of Order. Sharp eyes. Perfect hair. Perfect posture. Even, measured steps as he walks back to the mountain top, the cloud hardening into a path for him.

Valjean has the irrational desire to see him disarrayed. 

“Surely more people can be happy than this,” Valjean presses, hurrying after Javert. The clouds are soft beneath his feet, which he enjoys, even though Javert casts him a skeptical look whenever he says so. “Even you must see the streets are full of misery.” 

“And even you must realize your perception is skewed by your compassion. You focus too heavily on those who are miserable and not enough on those who are content. How, then, are you supposed to accurately judge the true proportion of people who are unhappy to those who are not?”

Valjean waves his hand and gently breaks the cloud apart into two, so that he is walking along the edge of it again, looking down.

A young woman—Cosette—stumbles on her way through the dirty market and spills what is in her basket.

Valjean has watched over Cosette since she was a young girl, living with a greedy innkeeper and his wife, forced to do chore after chore from dawn until dusk. When she was near ten years of age, Valjean guided her into the care of a kind priest, who took her under his wing.

She is what Jarvert likes to call one of Valjean’s “pet projects.” 

Valjean looks down and gently nudges a kind young man into her path. The young man begins to help her.

“I don’t wish to compare how many happy people there are to how many unhappy people there are. I wish to help those who are unhappy.”

Javert casts another one of his looks at Valjean, a little bit unimpressed, a little bit disinterested. “You were the one talking about more people, less people…”

Valjean sighs. “Why do you insist on being so logical? You understand me, do you not?”

“I understand your meaning.” Javert steps smoothly from the cloud to the mountaintop without trouble, and continues walking. “I just disagree.”

It is the highest peak in the world, far higher than any mortal could hope to climb. It is where the gods have made their home, though there are usually only a few residing there at any time. Many enjoy walking on earth, wooing humans, sleeping on clouds around the world. Even gods cannot see the things on the other side of the world unless they go there.

Valjean follows Javert with considerably less grace. It’s always a little bit of an adjustment for him, going from the soft, sinking clouds to the hard, steady rock of the mountain. 

It’s the very beginning of summer, and save a few fluffy clouds for convenience, the sky is clear and the land below them is covered in green. It looks as if they can see forever and ever. There are boys playing in the streets, nicking apples from farmers. Starving girls looping rope about the waists of their dresses to make themselves look even slimmer so a rich man might take them home. From up here, the shining, prosperous farms don’t look too far from the dirty, hungry city streets. 

“Valjean.” Javert is never not impatient. “If you do not come, I will go without you.” 

Valjean watches the daughter of the innkeeper sweep the floor, pausing just a minute to stare up at the sky. She doesn’t pray to Valjean the way Cosette does, but Valjean tries his best for her anyway. She prays to the god of Love.

The god of Love does not listen.

“Where are we going?” he asks, still tracing her path. When a man twice her age grabs her around the waist, he pushes the same kind young man from before—Marius—into her path, and he lightly takes her elbow. Afterward, Valjean swallows guiltily; he isn’t sure if that was better or worse than the other man. The other man is leaving, and he is rotten, but there’s a different sort of pain in Éponine now, because her rescuer is Marius. “I wasn’t aware we were going anywhere.”

Javert snorts from up ahead. “Were you just going to wander about? Stop staring, come, if you want to talk about what happens in this country.” He’s back from an island country in the Pacific, where a revolution overturned the government. He’d worked tirelessly to establish a new system of order, and came away with the sort of quiet triumph. He frowns in disapproval. “Of course you were just wandering.”

Valjean thinks again how much trouble it must be to be the god of Order—he’s going from place to place, again and again, as his systems get worn away by human nature, greed and charity both, and he has to reinforce or reinvent them. 

“I have found plenty to do while wandering,” Valjean returns mildly, turning away from the civilization at their feet and towards Javert. “But I wasn’t wandering this time; I was following you.”

Valjean does not have a schedule like Javert. He wanders. On the surface and in the air. Case after case, he presses small miracles into people’s hands when he sees someone in need of one.

“Well?” Javert spreads his hands and turns on his heel, towards the smooth, grassy peak of the mountain where any gods who have chosen to be on the mountain will be. Valjean follows him.

Jarvert frowns whenever he sees the mountaintop, and it makes something warm bloom in Valjean’s chest when he does. It shouldn’t bloom the way it does, not so high up—it annoys Javert because it’s not right— but the gods and goddesses had wanted it to look so, and so it had been arranged. 

Fantine—goddess of Motherhood—is the only one there. Rerhaps the fate of this little country isn’t enough for many gods and goddesses to concern themselves over. She’s sitting by the stream of blood-red wine that winds around the top of the mountain and becomes water when it plummets back down to earth, the sort of showy abundance Thénardier, god of Wine, insists upon.

“Valjean. Javert.” She nods at them both, her expression solemn. She’s also extraordinarily fond of Cosette, because Cosette’s mother loved Cosette very much and because Cosette wishes for a child and prays to Fantine regularly. “They are unhappy.”

Valjean turns to Javert with a smile, taking a seat on the grass. “See? They are unhappy.”

“I didn’t say they weren’t unhappy.” Javert’s frown deepens further, and he glances at the ground. His robe is black and the grass won’t dirty his clothing unless he wishes it to anyway, but he’s always reluctant to sit on the grass anyway. He raises a thin slab of rock and sits on that. “I only expressed that it was not our concern whether or not they were happy.”

Valjean looks up at Javert; he’s already taller than Valjean, but sitting on the rock, he’s much taller. “It is mine.”

“Your domain is mercy, not universal happiness. Fantine, tell me what you think we ought to do about the unhappy population.”

“They’re called France.”

“Hush, Valjean.”

“France is shorter than unhappy populace.”

Another one of Javert’s quelling looks. His eyes are black with white irises—all absolutes. “Hush, Valjean.”

Fantine smiles, a bright, indulgent thing. “I rather thought if we could make them happier…”

“Make them happier,” Valjean echoes, peering up at Javert, who turned politely to look at Fantine as she spoke, but not back to Valjean when Valjean spoke. “As I said.”

“Too vague, too inefficient.” Javert frowns at Fantine. “How do you propose we make the unhappy populace happier?”

“They call themselves France.” 

“Hush, Valjean.” Javert leans forward, his hair falling over his shoulder and nearly sweeping the grass. “Why are they unhappy? They do not have enough food. Why do they not have enough food? There is not enough food.”

Valjean sighs and picks a few blades of grass, sending them down over the clouds. He’ll check later who got them and see what he can do for them. “I believe the solution to that problem is to provide them with more food, but you will say that is wrong.”

“We have no control over their crop yield. We cannot simply give them an unnatural year of production.”

Fantine tilts her head. “Can we not?”

“We cannot.”

“Why not?” Valjean presses. He likes the way Javert turns to him with his usual frown—there’s something fondly exasperated about it, if he looks the right way. 

“It’s unnatural.”

“Ah.” This was expected. To some degree, Javert is right, even. “Perhaps if you adjust the system, you can distribute the food more evenly.”

Javert’s eyes flash, and his jaw tightens. He has a sharp jaw—he has a sharp everything. His limbs are thin and his elbows are pointy, his brow is heavy and solid, his lips thin and even thinner when he presses them the way he is now. “You believe my system is flawed.”

Plucking more grass, Valjean considers the blades in his hand and throws them to the wind. They land all over Javert instead of flying out over the country as he’d intended them to. “Oh—I’m sorry.” He lifts his hand to send them away, but Javert, nonplussed, sends them away first. “I think no system can be perfect. Nothing can be perfect.”

“A system is either right, or it is not.” Javert watches Valjean’s hand with apprehension, and, sighing, Valjean ceases his plucking at the grass. 

It’s such a harsh view to take, and he wishes he could convince Javert to look at it differently. It is very hard to do well if there is no range to mark yourself on, but Javert never hears it. Javert seldom hears him out about anything, although Valjean suspects he wants to, sometimes. He’s not sure why Javert doesn’t. Perhaps he views it as an indulgent waste of time.

“I think it works very well,” Valjean says diplomatically. “But adjustments could be made.”

Javert raises his eyebrows. “Which adjustments might that be?”

“That is your area of expertise, not mine.”

“Valjean, if you do not think my system works—”

“That is not what he said,” Fantine interjects gently, and Valjean shoots her a thankful look. She dips her hand into the river behind her and comes up with a shallow bowl full of wine, passing it to Javert with a pointed look. It’s a very mother-like thing, the way she manages them—and everyone else—in a way that they can’t help but accept.

Valjean always ends up upsetting Javert, even when he tries his best not to. He’s glad Fantine attempts to smooth them over rather than encouraging further conflict. Certainly other gods do not always do them the same favor. The god of Love drives them wild around each other, although for different reasons. “There are some that are more fortunate than others, and Valjean is saying that—”

“I cannot control fortune,” Javert interrupts irritably, still frowning at Valjean. “I do not care for Luck.”

“Yes, and I do not care for Misery. But she cannot help her nature, and neither can Luck. We simply learn to make do with all that makes the world what it is. Please, Javert, I do not see the point of this conversation if you do not wish to change anything.” Valjean turns from him to stand and look back out over France, trying to see what Javert sees. Ships come in filled to the brim with goods—food, spices, new technologies—and are carted off by a steady stream of merchants on long roads, stopping to drop off to inns, eateries, stores, the ones that buy in bulk with regularity. The contents of a shipload from the port will spread over the whole country, branching out like a spiderweb. He thinks he can see the beauty of it if he tries, but his eyes always stray away from the roads and the eateries and the inns to the alleyways, where those who cannot buy beg. “I say to you: this system is imperfect.”

Javert sighs behind him. “I have upset him,” he says, presumably to Fantine, although he does not lower his voice, so Valjean can hear him perfectly. Over the years, Valjean has come to think Javert simply does not whisper, because he is too straightforward to obscure anything, not even in mercy of another’s feelings. “I always do.” 

“I am not upset.” The hint of guilt in Javert’s voice makes Valjean’s stomach twist unpleasantly; Javert is not one for guilt, because it is a useless feeling by his standards. He is more interested in fixing the problem than feeling sorry that it exists, which is perhaps why their conversations always feel like this. Valjean attempts to switch gears—maybe he should not talk about the unhappy people, but rather, the food supply chain. “I am only trying to familiarize myself with the system you have created. The way goods are distributed—it is all very impressive. Is there not a way to also get them to the people with no money?”

Javert makes an incredulous sound. “The system operates on money. I cannot motivate people to work if there is no money, and the world does not function if people do not work. I am not the god of Riches, Valjean.”

“Why is it,” Fantine’s voice comes in. 

Javert and Valjean both turn to look at Fantine. 

Valjean realizes she has come to stand by him and gaze upon the land below them.

Fantine gives them both an amused look and continues, “women are always more commonly poor?”

“Ask the god of Riches. I have done my best to give women as much advantage as I can manage.”

Valjean turns quickly, unable to keep from beaming. “There! See? You have given your favor in order to aid those more unfortunate.”

Javert eyes him stiffly, color coming to his cheeks, as it always does when Valjean catches him doing something particularly kind. “Only to counteract the injustice done by other gods whom I cannot control. And anyway, it is not enough—and this is not why we are here! We are here because the people of the unhappy populace are unhappy.”

“France,” Valjean has to point out.

“What concerns me, and what should concern you, is not that they are named France, but that they are unhappy.” Javert’s eyes flash again, his tone regaining its impatience. “Revolution is coming.”

“I know how much you dislike revolution,” Valjean sympathises, still smiling. There’s something about when Javert gets irritable that makes him feel like laughing. It’s such a Javert emotion, all the frowning and the eyebrows pointing down, his resentful gaze. Javert in his natural state of being. 

Javert’s eyes flicker over him for a moment before glancing away at the skyline. “You dislike it even more than I. Revolution breeds war, and war breeds death. You dislike death.”

“Well. Yes.”

“Is it such a strange thing? To dislike death?” Fantine asks. “All who suffer loss grieve, and grief is pain.”

“Grief and pain and death are all natural things,” Javert replies. “Although it is a shame the revolutionaries will die. They have spirit, even if they disrupt the order.”

“A high compliment.” The revolutionaries will die. Valjean begins to think perhaps he would like some wine himself, and he moves to fetch some. 

Javert’s on his feet before he takes a step— “Here.” He scoops a bowl and passes it to Valjean, finally joining him on the edge of the world above. “Don’t pretend you weren’t thinking about it. You always do when we talk of sad things.”

“Thank you.”

“Kind of you,” Fantine observes, her eyebrows raised.

Javert lifts his chin at her. “I was closer.”

“Only by a few steps.” 

“It was more convenient—” Javert breaks off when Valjean lays a hand on Javert’s elbow, lightly so that Javert does not take offence. 

“Thank you, Javert,” Valjean says warmly.

Javert closes his mouth. “It was no trouble,” he says gruffly. “I am only sorry I cannot save your revolutionaries.”

“They are not mine.”

“Of the three of us, I think they may be mine,” Fantine agrees quietly. “They are schoolboys, hardly twenty years of age. Their mothers are alive and afraid. Is there really no way the revolution can succeed?”

This is a conversation Valjean has had many times with Javert, but Fantine has not. Valjean has a tendency to wander where Javert is scheduled to go—he enjoys Javert’s company, as strange as that sounds. He could almost speak the speech with Javert. 

“Fantine—it will not work. They are in their graves already. First—even if the revolution succeeded, they are the first to break it. Hardly half of them will survive, even if their movement is triumphant. Second… they are small in number. They are astronomically outmatched, even Valjean, who puts far too much stock in the heart of the fight and not in the facts, will agree it would take a miracle for them to clinch even the very first victory.”

“I don’t—”

“Please,” Javert says, holding up a hand Valjean’s way. “You know it is true.”

“Perhaps you put too little stock into the hearts of those who fight,” Valjean counters lightly. “Desperation can change a man.”

“It would take a miracle the likes of which neither of us have the power to create to give these men the victory they want, no matter how desperate they may be. Neither of us have dominion over War.” 

Javert is looking at him now with his black-and-white eyes, a stare so intense it unsettles Valjean, even though he’s had centuries to get used to it. The wind, playful as ever, runs through Javert’s hair and blows it between the two of them.

Javert frowns and looks back out at the city. The wind stills when he frowns. “In any case, it would do no good for me to allow the revolution to win, even if I could. If the dissatisfied won, they would get what they wanted.”

“That is the goal,” Valjean murmurs, half because he wants to keep hearing Javert speak in that low, formal voice of his and partly because he does believe, however impractical it may be, that giving the people what they want is what they should strive for.

Javert presses his lips together again. “No. If they receive what they want, they will throw another revolution every time they are dissatisfied.”

“And then, perhaps, you would better know what it was they needed and form a better system to serve them all. Perhaps it would not be so bad to allow for change.” 

The strand of hair has flown obediently back into place, but Valjean still wants to touch it, wants to push it behind Javert’s ear and see Javert’s fond-frown when he does it. Of course, Javert would probably not fond-frown. He would probably frown disapprovingly and return to the other side of the world for the coronation of a new king. 

Javert frowns his disapproving frown. “You cannot satisfy everyone, Valjean, we had this conversation not fifteen minutes ago. Someone will always be unhappy, and they will then attempt to start a revolution, if they have been sent the message that it works.” He looks sideways at Valjean with those dark eyes of his. “And then those who did not like war would never be happy.”

“Hmmm,” Valjean agrees, but he is unhappy anyway. He can see three of the revolutionaries now—the boy Marius who has helped two of his favorites in one day, a young man named Grantaire, another named Enjolras. 

They are angry. They are full of life. They are in love.

“If it distresses you, you do not have to be here.” 

“I will stay. I will throw my favor where I can; if there will be much bloodshed, there will be people who could make use of me, I am sure.”

“I will stay as well.” Javert and Valjean both turn to look at Fantine. She smiles faintly at them. “Sometimes it almost feels as if you two forget that I am here.” Thankfully, she says it with no malice; she only seems bemused by this observation. 

“Valjean is distracting,” Javert mutters.

“I think you are more so.”

“And both of you are biased.” Fantine waves her hand out at the city below. “As I was about to say—there will be children who need protecting, families that will be impacted. This battle of theirs concerns me as well. If the revolutionaries must fall, Valjean and I will do our best for the people affected, will we not?” 

Javert makes a noise of affirmation. “And I will try to keep society from falling to shambles.”

And that is what they do.

Time passes oddly for gods; the time Valjean has spent on Earth, time always seemed to pass at a regular speed, marked clearly by particular events, interactions, and achievements. Above the clouds, time drifts or stands still or rushes by, as if it is being swept along by the wind.

The drift of time as he followed Javert, provoking him in small ways and watching him work in between his own acts of Mercy; the stand-still during their conversation with Fantine, and now the rush—all at once, the young men are lined up in the streets, a few on horseback, shields up. 

Marius, who lives in Cosette and Éponine’s hearts both. 

Enjolras and Grantaire, who live in each other’s hearts and lead the young men with their words and with their swords.

The revolutionaries fall like wheat to the scythe. 

And Valjean is there. 

He has no holding over Death, and so he cannot prevent them. He can only prevent suffering—those who will die, he snuffs out their lives quickly, so they feel next to nothing as they depart. Those who have a chance at life, he gently takes away their consciousness so that they do not have to feel the pain until they can wake to treatment, and he nudges as many caring citizens into the path of the wounded as he dares. Those who must stay conscious for the sake of their wounds, he can lend them only the strength to stumble inside, away from the war of the streets.

Javert, above him, is as frantic as he gets, monitoring carts sent to and fro, watching government officials converse about ways to address the situation, overseeing the country’s army as it lines itself up in offence and puts soldier after soldier in front of the blades in an attempt to regain control. It is a mess, and Valjean knows Javert hates a mess. When the siege is declared, disrupting the flow of supplies throughout the area, Valjean thinks he can feel Javert’s displeasure from miles away.

Fantine swept down earlier than even Valjean, touching mother’s heads with supernatural premonitions: the urge to be extra cautious, the sudden wish to keep their children out of the streets, the unexpected curiosity about how their relatives are doing on the other side of the city and whether they might like a visit. She sends playtoys rolling away from the fighting, so that those still trapped in the city at least do not have to witness the blood with their own eyes. When Gavroche, the little brother of Éponine, falls, her grief seeps into Valjean’s consciousness. The innkeeper and his wife were hardly good or caring parents. Valjean suspects Fantine mourns the boy more than his own parents will. 

And the girl, Éponine, Valjean sees the blade coming down. He thinks of Cosette’s love for Marius, and Marius’s for Cosette. He thinks of the pain he can feel radiating off of Éponine when Marius first found Cosette and the further pain she will suffer if Cosette and Marius find each other again. He thinks of the pain that Cosette and Éponine will both feel if Marius falls today.

He nudges gently at Éponine’s mind, willing her to turn.

She sees as the blade comes down, and she moves like the wind.

In the next moment, Marius cradles her in his arms, her blood staining through both their clothes.

It is the path of least pain. 

Sometimes Mercy is cruel.

Valjean is no fool; he knows that this was not the only blow coming to Marius this night. It is unlikely that he will survive—other blades will find him. But he hopes. As Javert has always said, Valjean puts much stock into his hopes. 

The fighting quiets for the night, and the men mourn Éponine, toasting to her with wine that is the same color as the blood splattering the streets. Valjean raises his cup to them, to Éponine, and drinks with them from his perch on the rooftop before he returns to his work, doing what he can for the wounded and the dying. He has to get as much done during the night as he can, catch up on the backlog of personal, individual catastrophe in so many different individual people before the sun rises.

Because the next day is worse.

The next day is when the government receives back up, when the revolutionaries rise for a last, furious stand. 

The next day is when Javert very nearly goes mad because so much chaos makes the god of Order feel sick. He stays huddled above, watching from the mountain. He has done all he can before today, knowing he would soon be rendered incapable.

The next day is when bodies litter the streets and the gutters run with blood. 

The next day is when Fantine’s grief blankets the city as mothers mourn their sons on both sides. 

On that day, the boy Maruis gets injured, a deep wound that can only be survived if he receives good treatment, and soon. Valjean clings to his hope, always clinging to his hope, and does not speed the job of Death, but even he knows it is unlikely, in this bloodied landscape, for Marius to find help.

On that day, Enjolras is cornered by the national force and knows in a moment there is no hope of escape. Valjean touches Grantaire’s mind, turns his head. He leaves Grantaire to his own decision, for he is safe, and he may stay that way if he wishes. 

But Grantaire stands, “Count me in,” pushes his way through the soldiers that surround Enjolras until they are both surrounded, together. An island. 

Enjolras nods. In one fist: the flag the revolutionaries fly. In the other fist: the neck of Grantaire’s shirt, one last kiss, a brilliant triumph before they fall.

At the end of the day, that is what sticks to Valjean more than anything: the memory of those two young men, locked in each other, hearts beating furiously and then not at all. Mortality, he thinks, the limit of time, the absence of forever. It inspires emotion. It forges bravery. It is this that he admires most about mortals, this which makes him sometimes think it should be the gods who revere the mortals and not the other way around. 

He sits beside Javert and his long hair and his ever present frown, and he thinks that if they were about to peter out of existence, he would kiss Javert on his frowning mouth.

“Javert,” he says wearily, scooping a bowl of wine from the river and offering it to Javert.

Javert has his head hanging between his knees, the ends of his hair touching the ground—after an affair like that, Javert’s headache must be unmentionably painful. “Valjean.”

“I must congratulate you: the government is still in place, the ports continue to function, no farms or government offices have been burnt to the ground.” He reaches out with a hesitant hand and gathers Javert’s hair so it no longer touches the ground. It is soft and smooth beneath his fingers, heavier than it looks. “Society continues to function.”

Javert makes a sound of acknowledgement.

“Have some wine,” Valjean offers, stirring idly and willing the wine to drink in his good intentions. “Perhaps… divine wine will be Merciful on your state of mind.”

Javert makes another sound, something that might even be called a grateful sound, if one listened to it with the right ear. He accepts the bowl and drinks it down in slow, careful sips. His shoulders relax immediately, the anguished line of his brows easing, and he casts the bowl in his hand a suspicious glance. “That was rather powerful goodwill.”

“My will to see you well again.”

Javert raises his eyebrows at this and looks away, but he seems to have regained some color in his cheeks. “You can let go of my hair.”

“Yes.” Valjean lets go of Javert’s hair. Javert combs through the tangles, but his frown remains even after his hair is all in order, and Valjean has the irrepressible urge to erase that frown entirely. “You achieved what you intended to do. France will live to see another century.”

“France,” Javert says derisively, “is still the unhappy populace. Managing the revolution did nothing to remedy that.” 

Valjean sighs. “Give yourself a day to pride yourself in your achievement before you resume your endless self-criticism,” he implores, standing up from his spot beside the river. “Please, come. Talk to me about how you managed it all.”

From here, he can still see the veins of the country, wide roads stretching and stretching, thinner ones that twist in on themselves and find dead ends. The city is mostly these thinner ones. Even from so high up, they paint a red lattice at the center. 

Supply carts run through the previously besieged area, resuming a schedule that Javert no doubt appreciates. They must’ve moved the dead bodies out of the streets.

Valjean wonders who got the blades of grass, but he will find out tomorrow. Right now, Javert needs attending to.

Javert has stood and joined Valjean’s side, once more standing straight and staring ahead. His eyes are narrowed and his frown still present. He seems to be searching for something, and when he sees it, his expression relaxes a bit.

“What is it?” Valjean follows the direction of Javert’s gaze.

Javert sounds needled. “Nothing.”

But Valjean has already caught sight of it: Marius, dreadfully wounded but dutifully attended to, on clean white linens in the expert care of a local hospital. “Marius,” he says wonderingly. The boy has the care he needs to have a chance at surviving. 

Javert shifts beside him. “Hmm.”

Valjean blinks. A peculiar response from Javert—it sounds as if Javert is attempting to be dismissive, but just missing the mark. “I don’t suppose you had anything to do with this?” He knows the minute he asks that he is right, for Javert is terrible at obscuring or denying objective truth, and his black-and-white eyes fixate on a cloud passing by, a sure sign that he’s avoiding Valjean’s gaze. He wouldn’t waste his time looking at clouds otherwise.

“It was no trouble. The roads, the carts. They were coming by that way either way.” Javert speaks as if giving a report.

It makes Valjean’s chest warm, the thought of Javert rescuing Marius. “What is it exactly that you did?”

Javert frowns, as if he is attempting to conceive a way in which to gracefully dodge the question. Finally, he admits, “I touched the will of a man I knew to be kind. I sped his journey, so that he happened upon the boy. He did not wish to leave the boy when there was still hope, as I suspected.”

Valjean looked at Javert and his frown and the pink in his cheeks. “That was kind of you.”

“No.”

“...Yes.”

Javert’s mouth thins. “I tell you no. It was hardly a thing.”

“Did you not have a splitting headache at the time? I had thought at that point you hardly would have been able to lift your head.” 

Javert glances down at the bowl of wine in his hand that Valjean infused with his Mercy. “I hardly see how that is relevant. Where is Fantine?”

“Here.” 

Javert and Valjean both turn to look at Fantine.

“Fantine!” Valjean hurries to scoop another bowl of wine and imbue it with Mercy. “Have you been sitting there long?”

Fantine waves him off with a tired smile. “Do not concern yourself; I am exhausted, but not in pain. I enjoy listening to your conversation—Javert will hardly converse half as much with me.”

Valjean finds this hard to believe; Javert doesn’t spare him many words either. “The wine will do you some good,” he promises, and pushes it into Fantine’s hands. 

“It may be helpful, since I am leaving immediately.” Fantine accepts this time, smiling. “There is a group of widowed mothers who have been praying to me; they wish to provide for their children. I should see to them.”

Valjean waves her goodbye. Javert watches her leave with an almost-friendly expression.

Then Valjean turns back to Javert, taking a step closer to him. “Marius. I can’t imagine why… are you fond of him?”

Javert’s face twists as if Valjean has suggested something horrifying. “He is an idiot. The boy has no sense of order whatsoever. He was one of the revolutionaries as well—a headache all on his own.”

Valjean blinks.

“No, I am not fond of him.”

“But…” Valjean prompts.

“You were worried for him.” Javert waves his hand. “I thought he might be one of your pet projects.”

Valjean’s heart jumps. “You saved him for me?”

“I hardly go around saving all of France,” Javert grumbles. “He’s exactly the type that you would take a liking to. A fool.”

Valjean frowns. “I like Cosette, and Cosette is no fool.”

“No, but she is in love with one.” Javert mutters something under his breath. It sounds like, “I am a fool as well.”

“Pardon?”

“Cosette is in love with a fool.”

“Ah.” Valjean nods, and then shakes his head. He doesn’t know if the Marius boy is a fool or not; he has not observed him long enough, but if Javert thinks Marius is a fool, that says precisely nothing at all. Javert thinks nearly everybody is a fool. “Well if it makes her happy, I do not see the issue.”

“There you go again.”

They are quiet for a bit. 

Cosette discovers Marius in the hospital, and Valjean cannot help his smile when he feels her joy. She squeezes his hands and fusses over his wounds and insists on learning how to dress them, gathering books and reading by his bedside.

Valjean thinks again of Enjolras and Grantaire and Eponine, their all-consuming love. This is what it might look like if they had had more time: slower, more careful. 

If they had forever and ever, it would be even slower, even more careful.

“Have you ever been in love, Javert?” he asks.

Javert startles so much beside him, Valjean almost thinks he will fall off the edge of the mountain into the clouds, but Javert manages to gracefully settle himself without so much as spilling his wine. “What a question! Have I ever been in love. I don’t know what suddenly caused you to wonder—me! Have I ever been in love.”

“Yes, you,” Valjean agrees. “Well?”

“If I have?”

That’s a very new concept. Javert in love! Valjean can hardly picture it; Javert is certainly not the type to woo anyone, for he’s far too gruff and abrupt. He wonders if Javert would do anything at all. “With a mortal?”

Javert looks incredulous. “I hardly set foot on Earth for two days in a decade.”

It’s true. The god of Order, he stays high. He cannot see everything he wishes to see, track everything he wishes to track, if he is standing in the streets with everyone else. Whenever Valjean goes down—Mercy operates mostly on the ground—he misses Javert very much. 

“With a god, then?”

Javert considers Valjean, and Valjean considers him back. He’s color has gone up yet again, and his frown is a completely different kind of frown than his usual irritated one. “You are a fool,” Javert pronounces.

And then, without even pausing to acknowledge his deviation from the topic, Javert says, “I cannot keep my mind off of the unhappy populace. It is your fault, Valjean. I should not concern myself over whether an acceptable proportion of them are happy.”

“France,” says Valjean.

“There is an economical concept being passed around,” Javert says. “Where people still must work for what they want, but they are provided with certain necessities. Attending to their health, proper education, food and shelter. Have you heard of it?”

“On earth, I have.” It is in the same direction that the revolutionaries had been hoping to move France towards. 

Javert’s frown becomes his usual frown once more. “I thought you might approve of it.”

“I rather do.” Valjean cannot help another smile. “But you are the expert in the area more than I; is it a system that could work? Will it be efficient? Productive?”

Javert’s mouth twists wryly. It is not a smile, but it is not a frown. Valjean finds it entirely arresting. “If it pleases you so much, perhaps I can find a way to make it work. I am the god of Order.” 

If it pleases you so much. “Do you dislike my company, Javert?”

“Excuse you?”

“Do you dislike my company?” Valjean pushes on in spite of the return of Javert’s frown, the narrowing of his eyes again. “I thought you might, because you are always frowning at me. But I enjoy your company immensely, and I am beginning to think you do not feel so differently yourself.”

Javert’s frown deepens. “You enjoy my company?”

Valjean licks his bottom lip. There’s something about the way Javert’s looking at him that feels entirely new, out of all the centuries they’ve known each other. “...Yes? I follow you everywhere you go.”

More frowning. “I thought I had… followed you. Out of coincidence.”

“For hundreds of years?”

Javert splutters, his eyebrows lowering. “Well, I hardly expected for you to—You enjoy my company?”

“You have already asked that,” Valjean says gently, feeling his chest warm. “I do, very much.”

“Well.” Javert frowns harder. “Well.” He stares intently at Valjean, his cheeks pinked. The god of Order, in disarray. It makes Valjean’s stomach do something interesting. “Have you ever been in love?”

“Yes.” That is an obvious answer. “I follow you everywhere you go.”

Javert’s eyebrows shoot up. “Well.” He is not frowning anymore; his expression is blank for a moment, and his body is stock still. Without even a gesture from him, the wind knows to leave him alone. “Well. You do follow me everywhere I go.”

“I do.”

Javert’s frown returns. “I cannot understand why you enjoy my company. That does not seem very logical.”

Valjean smiles. “Must you always be so logical?”

Javert, apparently recognising that this is a joke, blinks and then—good gods—smiles tentatively back. It’s barely a smile; his mouth mostly doesn’t move, but it’s a smile. “Will you…” His hand flutters aimlessly around them. “Stay for… until… that is, would you like to stay to see if—how the new system works on the unhappy populace?” He almost looks nervous. “In France. Will you stay in France?”

Valjean can feel his smile widening. “Of course! There is still much to be healed after the fight, and you will be here.”

They look back out together: a thick gray cloud has passed over the city and rained heavily, and the blood is washing from the stones in the streets, sinking into the dirt. Cosette clasps Marius’s hand at his bedside.

“I am like Cosette,” Javert mutters, almost petulantly. 

It seems like a strange thing to say; they could not be more different. Cosette cannot stop smiling and fretting and bringing excitement and vigor everywhere she goes, as if she were the goddess of Youth herself. Javert… does not do these things. “Do you think so?” Valjean disagrees delicately.

Javert scoffs beside him. “Not in the way you are obviously thinking. No, I am a clever creature in love with a fool. I saved Marius for him. I am rewriting France’s system for him. It is ridiculous.”

“Oh?” It dawns on Valjean that he is the fool. He cannot think of anything to say. He looks away from Cosette and Marius and back towards Javert. “Are you indeed?”

Javert frowns. “A fool,” he repeats, and then, muttering mockingly, “They are unhappy, good gods, I am not even supposed to care. You are wrecking everything already. Stop smiling.”

Valjean beams. “Perhaps the best Order is a Merciful one! I say we are better together.”

Javert frowns harder, but it is what Valjean is beginning to think is a pleased frown. “Just come and help me,” he says. “Mercy could do with better structure anyway.”