Title: The Next Generation
Work ID: 33079240
Author: Xythia
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean, Javert/Jean Valjean, Hinted at
Additional Tags: Possibly Pre-Slash, BAMF Valjean, Father-Daughter Relationship, Grumpy Javert (Les Misérables), AU - Valjean is more of a practical parent., young cosette, Community: makinghugospin, Kinkmeme, Injured javert
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert does his job as a protector of innocent people. Valjean does his job as a father who knows how life can force you into a corner.

Work text:


Paris, September 1825



 



“When we get out of this,” Javert growled and bitterly tugged at the manacles binding his hands, “I will have a long conversation with your caretakers.”



At first glance, the little urchin blinking up at him with big blue eyes didn’t look like someone who had caretakers and a home, or at least not the sort that would take scolding words to heart. But first glances were for unobservant people and incompetent gendarmes. Javert was neither.



“Papa is going to be so worried about me,” the child whispered back and hid farther behind Javert’s bulk.



And there it was. Homeless gamins did not have that sort of diction, even if their faces were smeared with muck.



“Then he should not have left you unsupervised.”



Small hands tugged at the dark grey greatcoat and probably smeared it with unspeakable things. It would add a nice variety to the blood already staining it, Javert thought.



“I wanted to meet a friend of mine. Papa disapproves of Éponine. He says her parents are no good scoundrels.” The last part was obviously a direct quote. The girl sighed and pressed closer, seemingly unafraid of the scowling inspector. “So I took my getaway clothes-”



Javert’s eyebrows rose.



“-and tried to find her. Then those men tried to grab me and you tried to rescue me!” Small, white teeth sparkled up at him from behind a very dirty mouth. “You are a good policeman, I have to tell papa.”



“He does not like policemen?” Getaway clothes, hah! The picture that was forming in Javert’s mind was getting more complex by the minute. The clingy little urchin with her sticky fingers and innocent eyes might talk like a well-bred bourgeoise, but her ‘papa’ was most certainly not the respectable sort.



The girl wrinkled her nose. “He says they tend to have wrong priorities. What are priorities?”



“Why did you not ask your father?” Javert huffed and tried to bend his wrists to check the fit of the irons binding him. It was of no use, of course, these were his own bloody manacles and thus well maintained. The only chance would have been if the scoundrels hadn’t closed them properly, but then they would have sprung open by now.



The kid shuffled around and glanced down at Javert’s bound hands, her head tilted like a curious bird. “He didn’t say it to me and he always says it is not nice to listen in on people, even when they talk to themselves, so I did not ask him. I am a good girl!” She preened and then bent forward to scrutinize the lock of the irons.



“You are bleeding.” She blinked up at him, eyes wide and fearful, her little dirty fingers pointing at the red smears on his hands and then following the trail to his left shoulder.



Javert had to bite back a sharp answer. Yes, he was bleeding. It wasn’t as if the child hadn’t been there, in fact had been the reason why he was in a fight in the first place. But what could he have done instead? Waited for backup? The scrummy band of criminals had pointed at the child and one of them had leered something about her being pretty enough. No, not on Javert’s watch!



“That has to hurt. Blood should stay on the inside of a body. I cut my fingers sometimes, at the bad place.” Her whispers barely reached Javert’s ears and the way she eyed the half-closed door at the far side of the room was jaded and grim.



“It will be bad when they return.” She hung her head and fiddled with something. 



Javert was at a loss. Small kids and methods of reassuring them were something other than what was discussed in the handbook for police officers. He usually was the one making kids cry and that prohibited any positive interaction.



“Can you remove my handkerchief? It is in the inner pocket on the right of my vest.” Asking a child to bandage his wounds was beyond the pale and wouldn’t lead to a very successful bandage, but at the rate he was bleeding, had to stop it somehow or he wouldn’t be of any use when the scum returned.



“Stranger’s pockets are a big no-no to stick your hands in.”



“A commendable sentiment, but you have my permission. I hope you are not squeamish-” he sighed and bitterly eyed the cages and empty shackles decorating the room. This wasn’t a place for missish scruples. “You must be very brave now, all right? I need you to plug that hole in my shoulder with my handkerchief.”



“We can take mine.” She rummaged in her clothing and then triumphantly held up a square piece of cloth.



Javert eyed it. It was a dainty piece and surprisingly clean. The next few minutes were hard on both girl and man. Javert had to bite back insults and growls and the child was near tears. But despite the blinding pain, it was a success, the wound stopped bleeding. 



“One step closer to freedom,” he awkwardly tried to praise the urchin.



He didn’t get an answer but a small weight snuggled against his back. She wriggled and sighed. Couldn’t she hold still? But it was better than a hysterically useless child, so Javert bit back any admonishment. 



This, the inspector thought viciously and stared at the content of the room, was obviously a well-organized little business and deserving of his attention. His, and the full scrutiny of at least two dozen other police officers. The cage they had shoved both of them in was the biggest of six others. All of them were equipped with buckets and chains but thankfully empty of prisoners at this time. Someone had discovered the profitable joys of dealing with slaves.



If only Javert had found out in another way than landing himself inside a cage. It was embarrassing. He closed his eyes and prayed that his colleagues were searching for him. Someone had to have seen the fight, Javert hadn’t gone down easily and it had been a big ruckus.



Something touched his wrists. He opened his eyes and looked down. The girl had wriggled around and was tugging at the cuffs.



She gnawed at her lower lip. “I don’t think I can pick these.” 



Javert stared down at her bent head. “Excuse me?”



“They are the new ones, very hard to pry open.” She pointed at his manacles and then had the nerve to lecture him. “You have to force the tumbler and I am not strong enough. But I will be, just...in a few years?”



Of course they were hard to pick! They were the latest model of manacles. ”That is not something to look forward to!” Javert scolded.



The pitying look she sent him was glorious and she held up a set of lockpicks.



Javert stared. What sort of child was running around with such things hidden in their pockets? 



“But I can try. One can always try. The one on me wasn’t a problem.” Something clanged and was shoved into his line of sight. The old cuff, chain attached, the criminals had fastened around her neck. On an adult, it would have fit around an ankle. The little beast had used the cover of his body to pick the lock. Probably in case someone looked in at an inopportune time.



“What is your name?” Javert belatedly asked. He thought this little urchin would appear on a list of criminals bound to prison soon enough.



“I am not supposed to tell it to strangers.”



“Again, a good rule but I think we have gone beyond mere acquaintances by now.” 



She gnawed at her lip again but then shook her head no and then resolutely pushed her illegal tool into the keyhole, added the thinner, smaller lockpick and slowly began to manipulate the mechanism. Her little face showed utmost attention.



Javert kept still. 



“Euphrasie. My name is Euphrasie. And yours? One of the mean old men shouted it but-”



“I am Inspector Javert.”



A quick, shy little smile but then she went back to her task. Javert’s disappointment when her shoulders sank in defeat was tinged with hysterical relief. What good were his shackles when they could be pried open by a child?



“Oh. I nearly forgot, I can get rid of the rope around your ankles and legs, that will help, yes?” She fell back on her backside and pried off her belt with a flourish.



“It would yes.”



Her fingers pressed on the leather near the simple fastening and then wriggled and pried something out of between where the strip of leather doubled back to hold the buckle. Something small and shiny peeked out and Euphrasie removed it and held it up.



“I have to be careful, or I’ll cut myself,” She seriously lectured Javert. Again.



It was a filed down half Louis, smaller but just as sharp as a physician’s scalpel. Something he had seen before, in the dirt-stained fingers of convicts.



Euphrasie didn’t bother to find out why her impromptu guardian angel was looking so put out, she began to saw on the rope securing Javert’s ankles to the cage bars. The culprits had made the mistake of cuffing his hands in front of his body but had made up for that lapse by tethering him down to prevent any surprise attacks.



“I am really looking forward to meeting your father.”



“He is much better at this, " she murmured, then began praising her papa. “He wouldn’t have problems with your shackles either. He must have returned home by now and he must be so horribly worried about me.”



“I bet. What does he do for a living?” Javert pried, trying to stay casual. This all was niggling at him, alarm bells ringing.



“He is a gardener and helps at the local church. There are so many poor people.” The ropes slackened. “He is not a bad person, he doesn’t break the law!”



Found out by a child. The little urchin was more perceptive than he had given her credit for.



Euphrasie crawled around again and looked up at his scowling face, unafraid and stubborn, her chin jutting out. “My papa is good. He taught me to escape because the world is full of poor people and stupid and cruel people too.”



Javert freed himself from the remains of the ropes. “Yes, you are unfortunately right. Otherwise I would be out of a job. If he has done nothing wrong your father has nothing to fear from me.”



She held up her hand, fingers outstretched, and began to use them to illustrate her points. “Don't trust strangers. Don’t take anything that is not yours; don’t attract attention, always break out, never in.”



“Those are good rules too.” 



Muffled bangs and muted shouts arose in the hallway, and someone moved. Javert crouched and ushered the girl behind him.



“Stay hidden and out of the way as much as possible.” His head was swimming a little bit from the blood loss he had suffered but he would show them that he had still teeth.



The noise grew louder. Had a fight broken out between the scoundrels? His colleagues would have shouted and announced their presence. Javert narrowed his eyes and balled his hands into fists, pressed them against each other, and rolled his shoulders in preparation.



The door was slowly pushed fully open, and the person doing it stayed carefully out of the line of sight. Behind, in the hallway a figure lay prone on the floor, only the lower body visible. The shadow moved closer, slowly morphed into the silhouette of a man.



Whoever it was, he was unlikely to belong to the slavers. There was a chance that this could go wrong but there was nothing to it.  “I require help, they have captured us. I am with the police.” 



“Of course you are,” sighed the man and stepped inside the room, still using the shadows to obscure his face. The fellow moved crouched and was swift on his feet.



“Papa!” screeched the girl and barreled into Javert on her way to the iron rods, pressing herself against them, her hands outstretched.



“Shhhh!!!!” both adults admonished her.



With a few hasty steps, the father reached the cage and his hands began to rove over the small form of his daughter checking her for injuries.



“They tried to take me away and the inspector was very brave, he fought them. He’s injured.” She, who hadn’t bawled or fallen to hysterics, was now crying openly, clutching the fine dark wool of her papa’s coat.



“Did he now? Shh, my child, we will be out here soon.” He pulled out his own set of lockpicks and had the door open in no time at all.



Javert swayed on his feet, his eyebrows dark and heavily drawn together. It didn’t take the man raising his head and looking at him directly, Javert had guessed already and was cursing the Fates for always throwing this man in his path time and time again.



“Javert.”



“Valjean.”



The old con was watching him tiredly, one hand pulling the girl firmly to his side. Those intelligent brown eyes glanced over Javert, halted at the blood and dirt on his clothes, the scraped knuckles on his bare hands.



“There’s an open window in the next room on the right. Cosette, run over there, a rope is waiting for you. If you hear me shout, climb down and detach the rope when you reach the bottom, you know how.”



The girl shook her head and clutched at his clothes. “No.”



“Yes. I will follow later and find you. Obey me. Now, Cosette.”



Another sob, then she ran. 



“Wait for my shout.” Valjean stepped closer to Javert and held out a hand.



“Raising the next generation of criminal Valjeans, I see. Is breaking out a family business now?” Javert hissed but held out his hands.



“I'm just making sure she can survive.” came the answer. This lock took a little more time but it gave up against the insane strength of Jean the Jack.



Javert massaged his wrists, rubbed feeling back into them while he followed Valjean out the way the girl had taken. “I will not be swayed. You should not have freed me, I will hunt you down and arrest you, I will not falter.”



“I have no illusions about that. But you were good to my Cosette, I am in your debt and can hardly leave you at the mercy of slavers. And you are weak and your manacles are ruined. You are hardly in a condition to hold me down. Let’s get out of here first, hm?”



They followed Cosette and watched the girl nimbly climb down the rope. 



“After you.” Valjean kept his attention on the hallway, looking out for threats. “Can you manage on your own?”



His pride reared its ugly head and Javert would have liked nothing more than throw the implied offer back into Valjean’s compassionate mug. Unfortunately, the con wasn’t wrong. With the hole in his shoulder-



“Climb on my back.” Valjean bent down and swung one leg outside the window sill, then waited.



Javert gritted his teeth and awkwardly folded his long frame alongside Valjean’s, wrapped his good arm around the thief’s strong neck and he clamped his knees over Valjean’s hips. It was anything but elegant or comfortable and fresh spikes of pain made him bite down onto the convenient shoulder in front of him. Too bad the coat was too thick for it to be felt.



The added weight didn’t seem to bother Valjean. His strong body worked smoothly and a dizzy Javert was reminded of the times of his youth when he had visited his mother’s people and Carles had taught him to ride a horse without a saddle. He had been in awe of the power contained in the muscles moving between his tighs then and he was again. He nearly missed them arriving on the ground. Valjean had to detach him and lower him to a sitting position.



“He doesn’t look good, he is pale as a ghost.” A young female voice penetrated the fog that everything seemed to be so far away. “We can’t leave him here. Let’s take him home.”



“He is not a stray kitten.”



The fog grew thicker and thicker. The last thing he heard was Euphra- no Cosette saying that Javert looked just as bedraggled as Socks. He wanted to protest, but the world grew dark before he could manage.



When he woke up again he was lying in a comfy bed, his hair clean and open around his shoulders with a thick bandage making the fabric of the nightshirt strain. It wasn’t a room he recognized but too richly appointed to belong to an infirmary.



He did recognize the man sitting at his side though. Rivette, one of his younger officers, was studying the newspaper, sunlight streaming through the window.



“Rivette, report!” Javert croaked.



“Oh, inspector, you gave us quite a fright. We were searching for you but couldn’t find you. But then this gentleman appeared at the station house and told us he found you collapsed with a knife wound. He told us about the slavers,” the officer beamed and babbled.



“A gentleman?” Who was no gentleman at all, Javert would bet.



“He had you brought to his own home and called a doctor. You’ll have to send him a letter because Monsieur Fabre had to leave on an important business journey. He said to use his home to recuperate, as a thank you for keeping his daughter safe, and sends his hopes that you will recover.”



“Of course he has.” Javert closed his eyes, a bright blue pair of eyes and a warm brown one dancing behind his lids. 



“Until we meet again.”



 



The End


 