Title: of crime and coffee
Work ID: 33179968
Author: JasperSpirit
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean, Javert & Original Character(s), Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert
Additional Tags: Enemies to Friends to Lovers, actually more like friends to enemies to lovers, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Alternate Universe - Coffee Shops & Cafés, Suicidal Thoughts, Fluff and Angst, Angst, Fluff, the OC is just to further the plot, Case Fic, kind of, Other Additional Tags to Be Added, Minor Violence, Minor Character Death
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 7/7

Summary:
In which Inspector Javert visits a coffee shop and falls in love (but maybe it’s a bit more complicated).
Alternatively: The modern AU where Valjean runs a cafe but Javert doesn't know it's Valjean.

Work text:

Javert was exhausted. He had been working on the Thénardier case, and the criminals (including those in the Patron-Minette gang) were proving to be rather difficult to apprehend. He stopped in the police precinct to pick up some paperwork, planning to go home and finish it there before finally being able to go to sleep.

When he passed by his coworker, Constable Jacques’s, desk on his way out, she stopped him and said, “Sir! You look dead on your feet.”

“Thanks,” Javert said, sarcastically.

“Oh, but I didn’t mean it like that. Actually, there’s this coffee shop a few blocks from here. Want to go? I’m assuming you’re going to go home just to work more, anyway.”

“You assume correctly,” Javert muttered, then glanced at his phone to check the time. 8:50. “I suppose so. Is it even still open?”

“Yes, it stays open until 10:00,” she grinned. Jacques reached across her desk to grab her sunflower yellow tote bag, then stood. Javert followed her out of the door and shivered at the cold fall air. They walked the couple blocks Jacques had said it would take and arrived at a small cafe whose sign read Madeleine’s in cursive script.

The doorbell jingled cheerfully as they entered. It was cozy, Javert noticed, with warm toned paints and decor. A man with white hair and a smile on his face greeted them. “Welcome to Madeleine’s! Can I get you anything?”

Jacques ordered immediately, requesting a small mocha latte with whipped cream. Javert glanced through the chalkboard menu, but ultimately felt too overwhelmed with choices. He settled on a “plain coffee with sugar, please.” Jacques paid for the both of them.

The man with white hair, Jean, as his nametag read, smiled again and said, “Coming right up! You guys can take a seat if you’d like.”

Javert sat down at a table in the corner, and his coworker joined him. “So,” she said, as soon as she had seated herself. “What’s going on with the Thénardier case?”

“Don’t even bring it up. It’s going horribly— I sent out a team to try to bust one of their drug deals, but he was working with the Patron-Minette gang again and it ended up with three of our guys getting injured,” Javert scoffed, fiddling with his sideburns.

“Yikes, I can’t even imagine dealing with that,” Jacques grimaced. “I’m glad all I’ve had to deal with these past couple of weeks are petty theft and vandalism cases.”

“Well, Constable, that’s the life of an inspector. Now I have to figure out where they’re going to strike next, since the last attempt went so poorly.”

Thankfully, Javert was saved from having to discuss Thénardier in public because the waiter (Jean, he thought, trying to commit the name to memory) brought their drinks out. His drink was good; dark and robust but not bitter from overbrewing like some other coffees he’d had. Javert quickly polished off the coffee.

He thanked Jacques, who was still drinking her latte, for informing him of the existence of this cafe. Slightly more awake, he left the coffee shop and headed home for the night.

He arrived at his (admittedly) small apartment and settled into the familiar routine of filling out paperwork. Javert paused in his work, recalling the man who worked at Madeleine’s. There was something familiar about him, but Javert couldn’t quite place it. After thinking on it for a minute, he chalked it up to Jean’s easygoing smile and friendly eyes and resumed his work.

-----

When Javert woke up the next morning, it was to a crick in his neck. He was startled to realize he had fallen asleep at his desk. His bad luck was only exacerbated when he found that he had run out of coffee grains. Groaning, he leaned his head against his cold granite countertop.

In a fit of inspiration, Javert recalled the coffee shop he had visited only last night with Constable Jacques. He packed up his files and left his apartment, locking the door behind him.

Javert soon arrived at Madeleine’s, glad that it was within reasonable walking distance of his apartment and the precinct.

“Ah, welcome back, Inspector,” Jean said. “Can I get anything started for you today?”

Surprised, Javert asked, “How did you know I was an inspector? I didn’t mention it when I was in here yesterday.”

“I’ve seen you around town. I wouldn’t forget your face,” Jean smiled then, like he had made a joke.

“Oh,” Javert said, confused. He quickly turned his attention back to the task at hand. “Can I get a black coffee, please?”

“Sure! Do you want any pastries with that?”

“I don’t eat breakfast in the mornings,” Javert explained. “Just the coffee today. How much do I owe you?”

“It’s on the house for your service to Paris,” Jean said, lifting his hand to his head and running his fingers through his white curls.

Javert’s brow furrowed. “That doesn’t seem like a sustainable business practice.”

“Yes, but it’s not against the law, since I’m the owner of this establishment,” Jean smirked.

Javert, quickly realizing he wouldn’t be able to win, acquiesced and accepted the coffee. Remarkably, it wasn’t in a to-go cup like it had been last night, instead, it was held in a heavy sculpted mug painted orange and teal. He supposed he should have specified that he wanted it to go, but resigned himself to the table he sat at before. Javert pulled out his phone and scrolled through some emails while he drank the coffee.

Just before he left, he faltered in front of the counter. “Do I—” he started, unsure how to proceed. “Have we met before?”

Jean responded quickly, “No, I don’t think so. But maybe we’ve passed each other on the streets?”

Javert nodded. He wasn’t satisfied that this was true, but he figured that Jean was correct. Javert exited Madeleine’s, doorbell chiming, and waved goodbye to Jean, who smiled and waved in return. As Javert walked down the sidewalk towards the police building, he couldn’t keep his thoughts from returning to Jean and his kindness towards Javert. Maybe he’d have to get coffee from Madeleine’s more often.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Javert had been returning to Madeleine’s in the mornings for about a week since he first arrived. He’d branched out from his initial black coffee order: Jean had convinced him to add an orange cranberry scone to his breakfast, and, as usual, Javert had no choice but to give in (he had, however, convinced Jean to let him pay). Typically, he didn’t eat anything in the morning, but the scones Jean made were a nice exception.

As he was chewing on the scone that morning, he thought about the Thénardier case. A week had gone by since the last unsuccessful capture attempt. Surprisingly, Thénardier and his lackeys seemed to be laying low, because there weren’t any drug deals or assault cases attributed to his name recently. Even though Thénardier wasn’t technically part of the Patron-Minette gang, he was still lumped in with them because of his affiliation with their crimes.

Javert finished his scone and bid Jean good day. He went to the precinct, like usual, to do his daily work, the Thenadier case still in the back of his mind.

When Javert next entered Madeleine’s, Jean smiled at him like usual and offered to make his typical order. Javert thanked him and sat at his table. Jean delivered the food to Javert, but didn’t head back to his position behind the counter.

“So,” Jean began. “Would you be interested in going out some time?”

Javert felt his face heat up. “Um—”

“Oh no, no, not like that,” Jean was quick to amend. “As friends. I only ever see you in my shop but I’d like to get to know you.”

“Okay,” Javert agreed. “Did you have something in mind?”

“Maybe we could take a walk around Le Parc Monceau? It’s not too far from your police station…” Jean trailed off.

Javert nodded, still feeling a bit flustered. He wasn’t sure why, but being around Jean made him feel a bit nervous. Javert suggested the upcoming Saturday, to which Jean readily agreed. After that, Jean left him to eat his food and so he could tend to his store.

Javert was filled with anticipation for his outing. He wasn’t sure what to wear, or how to act. He was looking forward to it, surely, but Javert hadn’t had much experience in going out with friends.

By the time he was in the precinct, he still couldn’t stop thinking about it. He must have been rather out of it because Constable Jacques approached him asking if he was alright.

“Oh. Yes, I’m fine,” Javert responded.

Jacques looked concerned. “Are you sure? Anyway, I was wondering if you ever figured anything out on the Thénardier case?”

Javert sighed. “Yes, I’m sure, and no, I haven’t figured anything out.” He smoothed his coat down before continuing, “We must have scared him off last time, since he hasn’t made any moves. At all. It’s a bit unnerving.”

His coworker hummed, twisting her brown hair in her fingers. “Well, let me know if there’s anything I can do to help.”

She returned to her desk, leaving Javert alone in his office. Again, he sighed, and sat down heavily in his chair. Much as he tried not to, he couldn’t help but return to his ruminations on Jean, and it felt like time passed quickly as he was waiting for Saturday.

Saturday came, and Javert ended up walking to Madeleine’s to meet Jean, because Jean never told him where else they could meet up. Jean, who was hastily scribbling something on a piece of paper on top of the counter, looked up at Javert and grinned at him. “Javert, hello! I was about to walk over to your precinct.”

Javert’s lips twitched as though he was about to smile, and he said, awkwardly, “Well, I’m here now. Do you want to head over there now, or…?”

Jean smiled at Javert again. “Okay, let me get my coat and then we can go. Thankfully it’s warmer today than it has been recently.”

The pair walked from Madeleine’s towards the verdant green of the park (shamefully, Javert realized he had never bothered to visit it, even though it was only a couple of blocks from his house). It wasn’t uncomfortable silence, Javert thought, but he found himself growing steadily more flustered as they walked and no noise filled the silence between himself and Jean.

“So, uh, tell me about yourself?” Javert said, cringing slightly at his choice of words. He added hastily, “Do you have any, um, family?”

This seemed to be the right thing to say, because Jean’s eyes lit up with joy. “Oh, yes!” he started. “I have a daughter. She helps me at Madeleine’s sometimes.”

“I haven’t seen her yet?” Javert questioned.

“She’s in the process of moving, actually. She and her boyfriend are moving in together,” Jean said, frowning a bit.

Javert huffed a laugh and stuffed his hands in the pockets of his coat. “Do you not approve of him?”

Jean seemed to glance pensively around the greenery (that was more brown than green). “Well, he’s nice. He makes her happy.”

“But?”

“But… I will certainly be sad when she leaves me.”

“She’s not leaving for good, I hope.”

“What purpose will I have for existing if not for my daughter?” Jean said heavily.

Javert blinked. “You have Madeleine’s.”

Jean looked at Javert, like he had realized something. He smiled. “That’s true. What about yourself? Any family?”

“No,” Javert shook his head. “I do my work. I visit your shop. That’s it.”

“Isn’t that lonely?”

“I speak to the officers at my precinct. Some can be thoughtless but they’re good people.” Javert reached out to brush a leaf from Jean’s shoulder, who startled in response.

“Well, I’m glad we’re hanging out then,” Jean said decisively. Then, he suddenly said, “What’s the strangest case you’ve ever worked on?”

Javert thought for a minute. “There was one time when a baker was selling edibles under the table… he suggested our officers try one of his pastries to prove his innocence, but he accidentally gave them ones with marijuana.”

“Oh!” Jean stifled a laugh. “Were your officers okay?”

“They were fine,” Javert chuckled. “But I had to give them a lecture on consuming potential evidence. My current case is much less frivolous, though.”

“What’s that?”

“Normally I wouldn’t divulge the details. However, seeing as I have the legal jurisdiction to inform people of my choosing, I suppose I can tell you. The… Patron-Minette gang, as they call themselves, have been increasingly irritating lately. They’ve been holding drug deals, and they have multiple assault charges. They've been working with a man named Thénardier.”

Jean seemed to have stiffened slightly at Javert’s admission, and his jaw was tense. “Do you know of them?” Javert questioned.

Letting out a breathy laugh, Jean said, “Yes. I have heard the name.”

Javert, recognizing Jean’s obvious nervousness, let the subject drop. Maybe Jean was discomforted by talks of violence in his community? They walked in silence for a few more minutes.

As they rounded a turn, Javert saw that they had made it back to the original path they were on, leading towards the street. When they reached the road, Javert turned to Jean and said, “Thank you for inviting me out today.”

Jean did his signature smile (the corners of his hazel eyes crinkling up, white teeth flashing beneath an equally white trimmed beard). “I’m glad you could come. Walking in the park wouldn’t have been nearly so much fun without you.”

Javert felt his face heat up beneath his thick sideburns. “Yeah, no problem.”

They stood there awkwardly for a second before Jean interjected, “Do you want to trade phone numbers?” He paused for a second before continuing, “If I hear anything about the Patron-Minette gang I can let you know.”

Javert was nodding before Jean had finished the second sentence. It seemed reasonable enough, he thought, pulling out a piece of scrap paper and hastily writing his number on it. Once he had handed Jean the paper, he said, “I’ll see you tomorrow.”

They parted ways, Javert heading to the precinct to get some work done, and Jean heading to Madeleine’s. Javert couldn’t stop thinking about him.

Chapter 2! I've kind of picked a spot in Paris for the story to be loosely set... Google maps my beloved

TW: suicidal thoughts and general existential dread


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


0x xx xx xx xx: Hey, this is Jean! (7:38pm)
0x xx xx xx xx: I wanted to message you now so u could save my number (7:39pm)

The messages sat innocently on his phone, but Javert looked at them like if he were to respond they would burn him. Steeling himself, he picked up the phone and typed a response.

Javert: hey Jean. this is javert (7:41pm)

Javert grimaced. Not the greatest way to start a conversation, but it’d do.

(Jean liked your message at 7:42pm)

Oh. He must have only messaged to give his number, Javert reasoned, pushing down disappointment. He sighed and pulled out some reports he needed to finish from his messenger bag. Later, once he finished his work, he glanced around his austere apartment and confirmed everything was in its place before heading to bed.

Javert woke up the next morning feeling surprisingly well rested. Stretching, he got ready for the day: he shaved his sideburns to perfection, took a quick shower, tied his long hair into a ponytail with a navy blue ribbon, and grabbed his messenger bag from where he had discarded it by the desk.

In fact, he almost skipped going to Madeleine’s, but decided he should say hello. When he pushed through the door, though, Jean’s face was not the one that greeted him. A girl, no more than 25, stood behind the counter. She had chestnut brown hair and vivid blue eyes. She smiled just like Jean.

“Hello, Monsieur!” she grinned.

“You’re not Jean,” Javert said dumbly.

“Ah, no, I’m Cosette!”

“Cosette…?” He started. The name sounded familiar. He could feel his heartbeat quickening beneath his skin, and his lips parted in an almost unconscious grimace.

“Cosette Fauchelevent.”

“You work for Jean then?” he asked, desperately hoping his memory was mistaken.

“Well, yes, but he’s my adoptive father also.”

With that declaration, Javert was struck with a dizzying clarity: Jean was that escaped convict, Jean Valjean (he didn’t even bother to change his first name!). The next few minutes passed in a haze. Javert ordered his coffee, black with sugar, and sat down at his usual table.

Jean didn’t look like a convict, he didn’t even look like he had been to jail. Were his kind words a mere farce? A way to get Javert to lower his guard? Of course not, Javert thought, scoffing slightly. Even when Jean— Valjean— was the mayor of Montreuil-Sur-Mer, he gave alms to the poor.

Javert’s stewing was interrupted by a gentle hand on his shoulder. “Javert? Are you okay?” the voice asked.

It was his friend, his tormentor, Jean Valjean. “Don’t touch me,” the inspector growled. Valjean’s brows knitted, a confused expression gracing his features. It struck Javert, then, that he must’ve looked more animal than man, his sideburns pronouncing his wolfish features. He repeated himself, “Don’t touch me, Valjean.”

Valjean’s face paled. “So you know.” It wasn’t a question. Valjean must have known this day would come.

“Yes, I know! I should have figured it out sooner. You can’t mask your past with niceties and coffee. You even named your coffee shop after your last false identity!”

Valjean stood in a resigned slouch. He had set the mug of coffee on the table and scrubbed his hand over his face roughly like it would cleanse his sins.

“Do you take me for a fool, 24601?” Javert spat out the number like it tasted bitter. He dug his nails into his palms in a futile effort to remain calm.

Valjean, who had remained silent throughout Javert’s accusations, stepped forward with a furious glare. “Do not call me that,” he warned.

“Why not,” he snarled, “It’s what you are.”

The anger melted from his face, replaced by weariness and a calmness that must have been forced. Valjean glanced back over to the counter. “Cosette. She doesn’t know. Please, for her sake, she can’t know.”

“She’ll know soon enough when I arrest you.”

“Yes,” Valjean said mildly.

Javert stood abruptly. The chair scraped against the patterned tile floor. He looked down at the untouched coffee, still warm, and then back up to Valjean. “I’ll be back for you,” Javert promised. “Tonight. And we’re going to the station.”

Valjean smiled sadly (a far cry from his usual beaming smile). “I know.”

It was drizzling when Javert shoved open the door of Madeleine’s with perhaps too much force. He didn’t know where he was going, but he had to leave. He couldn’t be bothered to call in sick to the precinct (or to notice that he had never taken a sick day in his life aside from forced leave). Cloudy overcast skies seemed to mock Javert as he wandered the streets of Paris.

He passed the park where he had walked with Valjean only the previous day. It was greyed with the weight of the rain. Javert continued walking. He shook his head to dispel thoughts of Valjean, but it didn’t work. Valjean was a criminal, he thought, but what now? He didn’t act like one. The convict was prepared to face his sentence, which would perhaps be a lifetime long.

It wasn’t a crime to unknowingly befriend a convict, and yet, it was like all his moral structures had been shattered. Javert felt a sinking feeling in his gut and called forth the truth: he could no longer condemn Valjean to prison. If he were a stronger man, maybe, but because he was weak, he saw no choice but to let Valjean go free. To let Valjean go free would betray his oath as an officer of the law, but to turn Valjean in would betray his own conscience.

That was how Javert found himself standing on a bridge over the Seine. He was dimly aware that he must have been walking for a few hours, because it was lighter and it was no longer raining. Resting his hands on the concrete railing, he stared down into the blackness of the river. It swirled and roiled, and Javert felt his own emotions mirror it. He turned his gaze to a scrawled blue signature that was graffitied onto the railing, then looked back to the river.

With shaking limbs, he made to move onto the railing. He was interrupted, however, by the sound of his phone ringing. Javert aborted his movement to stand on the barrier and reached into his coat pocket. Withdrawing the phone, he saw through blurred eyes that the contact name was saved as Constable Jacques.

“... This is Inspector Javert,” he muttered, usual confidence gone.

“Sir— I didn’t see you at work today!”

Javert sighed. “Why did you call, Constable?”

What Jacques said next made Javert’s eyes widen and his back stiffen. “Sir, it’s the Patron-Minette gang. They made a move— and they’ve got Monsieur Fauchelevent.”

Let me know what you thought! Chapter 4 will be out soon.

In which Javert comes to terms with the fact that Jean is missing.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


“Sir, it’s the Patron-Minette gang. They made a move— and they’ve got Monsieur Fauchelevent.”

Javert was shocked. How could Thénardier have gotten Valjean? He stifled feelings of panic and slipped into a more collected facade. “What do we know?”

“One Cosette Fauchelevent received a letter enumerating terms for the return of her father, Jean Fauchelevent.”

“I’ll—” Javert glanced back at the Seine. “I’ll be at the precinct in 30 minutes.”

Jacques made an affirmative noise. She said, “Alright. I’ll have the note ready for you when you get here.”

Javert hung up the phone and released a shaky exhale. The Seine would wait for him, he decided. He would answer its call soon enough. But first, he had to save Valjean.

As he speedwalked to the station, he realized he was still damp from the rain. There wasn’t much he could do about it without going back to his apartment, so he swallowed his pride and resigned himself to dealing with the stares of his fellow officers.

Half an hour later, Javert arrived at the police building. He hesitated on the steps before letting himself in. It hadn’t changed since he had been in yesterday, but it felt like he was seeing it anew. Probably because of his newfound sense of morality, he grumbled to himself, walking to Jacques’ desk.

“Hey, Inspector!” Jacques greeted. “Wow, you are drenched.”

“I got caught out in the rain,” he lied.

“I’m sure you would have wanted to get a first look at Thénardier’s ransom note, being the head of the Patron-Minette case and all, but a couple of officers have had a look at it by now since you weren’t here,” she continued. She was quick to add, however, “Not that it’s a bad thing you weren’t here, obviously, it is a Sunday so I understand if you were taking a day off.”

“Do you have the letter?” Javert interrupted.

In response, Jacques handed him a piece of paper that had been folded into thirds. Javert opened it and read it aloud:


To Mlle Colette:



We (the Patron Minettes) have your father in our custody. To insure ensure his safe return, bring €5000 to the intersection of Rue de Rocher and Rue de Constantinople at 10:00pm on Tuesday the 13th.



P.S. Any less than 5000 and we’ll make sure he gets it.


Gripping the piece of paper tighter, Javert read it again. He looked back up at Jacques, who was leaning on her desk.

“We don’t know where Fauchelevent is, then?” he inquired.

Jacques shook her head. “No. Best I can figure, this is just a meeting spot.”

“Right. And where is Mademoiselle Fauchelevent?”

“We sent her back to her apartment, sir. There wasn’t much we could do until you got here.”

“I have an idea on what to do, but I’m going to need to speak to her. Do you know her address off the top of your head?”

“Why, you know where it is!” Jacques exclaimed.

Javert, confused, raised his eyebrows so they disappeared under his bangs. “I’m pretty sure I don’t?”

“She and M. Fauchelevent live in the apartment just above Madeleine’s.”

Javert said, “I’m going to go speak to her, see if she can give any more information. No one else should come because it might be apparent if more officers were to go that she informed the police.” I’m already at Madeleine’s often enough for it to come across as normal anyway, he thought.

Jacques nodded. “Good luck, sir.”

He silently thanked the gods that he could return home and change into something less wet before he went to Madeleine’s since it wasn’t too far out of the way. As quickly as he had come, he exited the precinct and hurried back to his apartment, where he changed into a bulletproof vest and more traditional police attire (rather than his typical greatcoat).

He pushed open the doors of Madeleine’s only a few minutes later to find Cosette behind the counter. Guilt settled heavily in his gut. “Hello, Mlle. Fauchelevent,” Javert said.

“Inspector! I’m so glad to see you,” she greeted. “You left in a bit of a hurry this morning!”

Javert inwardly grimaced. Had she known why he left so early, she would not be so chipper. How was she even so cheerful, knowing her father had been taken? He asked her as much, to which she answered that she was confident Javert could find him.

Javert’s guilt only grew and he had to glance down at the floor for a moment. Finally, he looked back to Cosette and started, “Mlle. Fauchelevent, I have a few questions that may help me in the return of your father.”

She smiled and said, “Of course! And please, call me Cosette. Let’s go up to the apartment so we don’t disturb any patrons.”

Following Cosette up the stairs, he saw a cozy apartment that was small without being cramped. Upon entry, Javert noticed a reading nook by a window that overlooked the street and a kitchen with brown and grey finishes that connected to the living space. A pair of silver candlesticks sat innocently on the mantle over the gas fireplace.

“Please take a seat, can I get you anything?” Cosette asked, anxious to be a good host, it seemed.

“Mlle. Fau— Cosette, this is not a social call,” Javert reminded her.

Cosette sighed. “Yes, I know. I think I may be in shock. I can’t imagine why those awful men would want my papa!”

Javert could imagine. “That’s what I’m here for,” he said, attempting to sound reassuring. “Can you tell me what you were doing when you found the letter?”

Cosette motioned for him to sit at the kitchen table, and she took a seat across from him. “I was working in the cafe. One of Eponine’s friends came in, and I asked if I could get him anything.”

“Eponine?” Javert inquired.

“She’s one of my friends.”

“Last name?”

“Thénardier.”

Javert looked up sharply from where he had been jotting down information in a small notebook.

Cosette winced. “She’s not— she doesn’t do that stuff anymore. The guy who came in was more like an ex-friend of hers, anyway.”

Javert nodded. “Do you know his name?”

“Montrosier? Massenet, maybe? I know it started with an ‘M,’” she explained apologetically.

“Montparnasse?” Javert clarified.

Cosette nodded emphatically, and Javert motioned for her to continue her story. “Well, he comes in, and I ask him what he wants to drink. He didn’t say anything, just handed me a letter. You saw it, I imagine. I was confused and asked him what it was for, but he left the shop just after he gave it to me.”

Javert interrupted her story with a question. “When was this?”

Cosette thought for a moment. “It must have been around 11:00. I tried calling Papa, but he wouldn’t pick up. I checked the whole apartment too.”

“Do you have any idea when he disappeared? When did you last see him?”

Cosette held her head in her hands. “I don’t know. Maybe when he went out to throw the trash in the dumpster? I didn’t even know he had gone anywhere.” She sniffled loudly and Javert felt very out of place. He patted her arm awkwardly.

Satisfied he had gotten as much information from Cosette as possible, Javert cleared his throat and began to suggest his plan. “I may have an idea. It might involve some waiting, though,” he warned.

Cosette brightened almost immediately. “What is it?”

“Since we don’t know where Jean— uh, your father— is being held, the best possible solution will be to get information from whoever you’re meant to give the money to.”

“Like an interrogation?” Cosette asked, possibly a little too excited, considering the circumstances.

Javert was quick to correct her. “No, not an interrogation. I’m thinking you’ll need to meet up with them to give them the money.”

Cosette’s brow furrowed. “Monsieur?”

“I can give you some counterfeit bills. Once the person takes the money, believing it’s real, I and some other officers can follow them to their hideout, which will most likely be where they’re keeping your father,” the inspector explained.

“Oh!” Cosette gasped. “Will that not be dangerous?”

“Not for you.” Javert grasped for how to say there was a risk of injury for his officers without it sounding callous. “Sometimes officers can get hurt in the line of duty but I will be making sure you aren’t injured while performing your part.”

Cosette, seemingly satisfied, gave a nod of her head. “Thank you for your help, Inspector. I don’t know what we’d do without you.”

“We’ll get your father back,” Javert promised. I have to, he added silently.

With the plan made, Javert returned to the precinct to inform his fellow officers what would happen. Once he finished with that, he went home, preparing himself mentally for the confrontation with the Patron-Minette gang that would occur on Tuesday.

So, this isn't really... a slow burn anymore. I have most of it written and honestly it goes pretty fast after the main conflict, mostly because I've realized I'm not very skilled at writing romance yet? I am going to be removing the tag but sorry if that's why anyone started reading this.

In which Javert goes against Patron-Minette.

Minor violence alert! Gun/knife mention.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


Tuesday came. Javert had gotten permission from Commissioner Chabouillet to involve a civilian, and things seemed promising. He decided to bring two officers with him (Constable Jacques and Sergeant Leroux) with three more on standby.

He confirmed the plan with Cosette and handed her the counterfeit money, but warned her against using it for anything other than their plan. Javert prepared his necessary supplies. He had his gun, handcuffs, baton, and radio. Looking more ready than he was to finally get a hold of Thénardier and the Patron-Minettes, he set out to get a good stakeout point at the corner of Rue de Rocher and Rue de Constantinople. Javert borrowed a rusty brown Ford from the precinct that was used for undercover work which, despite its old appearance, still smelled like a new car. The windows were tinted black so he could see the deal going on, but outsiders couldn’t see him.

It was already dark out, fall nights growing longer. Javert suspected it wouldn’t be long before Cosette showed up, guessing by the time that was illuminated on the car’s dash. 9:35. Only a little bit more time until he could find Valjean— or, it was back to Jean now, wasn’t it? A few more minutes passed.

There! Javert saw a man creeping up to the intersection. He was dressed in black, and had a darkly colored beanie on. Javert snapped a couple of photos of him for reference. The man stood slouched against the wall of a building. In the periphery of his sight, Javert saw Cosette walk briskly towards the meeting point. 

“Civilian is in position,” he breathed into his radio. “Be ready to assume positions.”

Javert waited a second. “She’s handing him the money. Suspect has taken the money and is checking to confirm it’s all there. No issues yet.”

“She’s walking away. Suspect is, too. I’m going to follow and update you on his location.”

“Copy,” came Jacques’ crackled voice through the radio. The suspect was out of earshot but still visible by the light of the stars. Javert started the Ford and creeped forward, following loosely behind the man. He must have been Montparnasse, because his stature was similar to that of Montparnasse and not of Babet or Claquesous.

After trailing behind Montparnasse for 15 minutes, Javert pulled to a stop. Montparnasse entered a building that looked to be abandoned: a crumbling warehouse that probably used to be an electrical plant.

“Suspect has entered the electrical plant on Rue de ——. Be ready to converge,” Javert warned.

Sergeant Leroux responded shortly with a code eleven, showing he was in position. Jacques quickly followed with a copy.

Officers ready, Javert exited the car and walked toward the building. He could feel gravel crunching under his feet and he hoped it wasn’t as loud as it sounded to him. “Converge on the inner perimeter,” Javert said lowly. “Jacques, take the north entrance; Leroux, enter through the east. I will be entering through the west.”

Javert’s eyes adjusted to the dark as he opened the door slowly. He searched the building for a minute before he saw a man standing in the next room. “Hands in the air,” Javert said. “You’re under arrest.”

Of course, this was just procedure, because the man whirled around, grabbed a blade from a table next to him, and stood with the shank at the ready. Javert placed his hand over his gun and grabbed his baton from its place on his belt.

The gang member surged forward towards Javert and jabbed the knife at him. Javert dodged and slammed the baton against the man’s head. The man faltered for a moment before falling unconscious. Javert grimaced, put away the baton, and pulled out a pair of handcuffs. He didn’t have enough men on the operation to do anything other than leave the man, which turned out to be Babet.

Javert radioed in. “Suspect one is down. It’s Babet.”

Leroux radioed in a moment later and said, “I’ve got Montparnasse and Claquesous. No sign of the hostage yet.”

The next room Javert entered was large and had support beams running from the floor to the ceiling. He inhaled sharply upon seeing a dark shape slumped against a beam. It was Jean. Ditching protocol, Javert rushed over to Jean.

“Hey,” Javert said. “Hey, it’s Javert.”

Jean flinched. “Javert?”

“Yeah, yeah, it’s me,” Javert said hurriedly. “Are you okay? We’re going to get you out.”

Groaning, Jean tilted his head. “I got hit on the head.”

“Badly? Do you think you have a concussion?” Javert asked, feeling panicked.

“No,” Jean was quick to assure him. “I was knocked unconscious and when I woke up I was tied to this post. I’m pretty hungry but they gave me water.”

“Right, okay, I can deal with that,” Javert said. He reached to untie the thick ropes that were binding Jean. The radio crackled to life and Javert distantly heard Jacques say she’d incapacitated Gueulemer. Once he’d untied Jean, who was gratefully rubbing his wrists, Javert moved to radio in to report he’d found the hostage, but Jean stopped him.

“Javert, wait.” Jean withdrew a folded letter from his coat, not unlike the one that Cosette had received.

“What’s this?” Javert said gruffly.

Jean looked embarrassed. “The letter I got. Just read it.”

Javert unfolded it and read it quickly.


“Monsieur Fauchelevent”:



Bring us (the Patron-Minettes) €5000 by noon today on the corner of Rue de Rocher and Rue de Constantinople or we’ll tell your cop friend your… real past.



Patron-Minettes and M. Thénardier


“They blackmailed you first?” Javert asked incredulously. “Listen, I need to tell you something.”

Javert paused for a second, and then three things seemed to happen all at once.

One: he heard Leroux radio in and say that Thénardier was still unaccounted for. Two: he felt a stabbing pain in his back; Javert let out a strangled hiss, the letter fell from his hands, and Jean’s face paled. Three: a gunshot went off.

A dull buzzing sounded in Javert’s ears. He strained to hear what was happening. “Oh God—” Jean was babbling something, “Javert—”

Javert turned around as best he could and saw Constable Jacques standing over an immobile Thénardier. “Constable,” Javert said, but it sounded like his voice was underwater, so he repeated it, louder. He felt a warm liquid slide down his back. Dimly, he registered that he had been stabbed. Javert sat hazily on the concrete floor, breathing shallowly. He wasn’t sure how long he’d been sitting there, Jean pressing his hands against the wound, when he recognized Jacques trying to get his attention. Javert weakly lifted his head to look at her but the world tilted and, vision going spotty, he hit the floor.

I realize Montparnasse definitely would have put up more of a fight (now that I've actually read the brick) but I wrote this before I read the gang parts and wanted to skip to the parts I actually knew somewhat how to write aha

TW, more mentions of suicidal thoughts.


(See the end of the chapter for more notes.)


When Javert woke up, it was to sterile white walls and a bed with sheets that felt too much like plastic for them to be comfortable. The second thing he noticed was the man sitting next to the bed, holding Javert’s hand and resting his head on the side of the bed. It was Jean. Javert processed this for a moment, wondering why Jean was holding his hand.

Then he remembered what had happened. “Jean?” Javert rasped. His voice was whispery from disuse. Javert cleared his throat in an attempt to make his voice more presentable. He tried again: “Jean?”

It wasn’t much better, but it got Jean’s attention. “You’re awake!” Jean exclaimed.

“Evidently I am.”

“Are you in pain?” Jean asked, pushing a button on the side of the bed that was probably used to call a doctor.

“Not really,” Javert said stiffly. “Jean, what happened? Where’s Jacques?”

“Mathilde?”

Javert stared at him blankly. “Who?”

“That’s your constable’s first name.”

“Oh. Where is she?”

Jean glanced toward the door of the hospital room. “She was in here for a while, but she had to leave. I think your precinct called her back.”

“What—” Javert was afraid to ask. “What happened with the case? After I untied you?”

Jean’s eyes were filled with sympathy. “The Patron-Minette members were all arrested. But Thénardier’s dead.”

Javert drew in a shallow breath. “That’s not ideal.”

Jean shook his head. “It was him or you.”

“No, the— the goal of the police force is to minimize deaths,” Javert stammered. “I shouldn’t have been so reckless.”

“It’s okay. You couldn’t have done anything,” Jean said in a placating voice. “And everything’s been taken care of. Apparently you just have to give a report once you’re recovered.”

“How long have I been out?”

“Three days. It looked pretty bad. Apparently bullet-proof vests aren’t stab-proof.”

Javert turned to Jean with wild eyes. “How am I meant to do my duties as a police officer if I’ve been stabbed?”

“You can still arrest me once you’ve recovered,” Jean suggested.

Javert scoffed and turned his head away from Jean. Of course Jean would remind Javert of his criminal past. “I’m not going to arrest you,” he muttered.

Javert wasn’t looking at him, but it felt like Jean leaned forward. “What?” Jean asked.

“I said, I’m not going to arrest you,” Javert repeated tiredly.

Jean tilted his head like a confused puppy. “Why not?”

Javert’s brow furrowed beneath his bangs and he glared at the ceiling. “Listen. When I left Madeleine’s that day… I went to the river.”

Jean’s eyes widened minutely, silently telling Javert to continue. He did, and said, “I was going to jump.”

“What stopped you?” Jean asked quietly.

Javert glanced at the man next to him and said drily, “I got a call from my coworker saying you’d been kidnapped.”

Jean didn’t say anything. He ran his thumb over Javert’s knuckles and Javert was reminded that Jean was holding his hand. He flushed slightly at the realization.

And then he let out a hysterical laugh. “Don’t you see? I’m like a dog being called to heel. You told me to not arrest you, so I didn’t. You needed to be saved, so I saved you.”

“But I didn’t tell you not to arrest me,” Jean said quietly.

“I know, and that’s part of the problem,” Javert groaned. “Everything I stand for is a contradiction, now. The law says I must arrest you, but I can’t arrest a good man. So I’m at a standstill. How can I be a good man if I don’t uphold the law that I swore to uphold?”

“You are a good man.”

“Am I, though?”

“Yes,” Jean replied, softly, firmly. “The law may be helpful in some situations but it doesn’t make it just in all circumstances. A good man recognizes the faults in his system for what they are, which is what you did.”

Javert sighed and closed his eyes. He opened them again when he heard someone begin to talk. It was the doctor. 

“James Javert? Hi. We have you on a lot of painkillers right now,” the doctor remarked, “I’m surprised you’re lucid.”

“What’d you do to me?” Javert asked.

“Somehow, the knife didn’t hit any major arteries or your lungs. The wound was stitched shut; I expect you’ll make a full recovery. Since you’ve been here for a while with no problems, we can let you go home. You live with your husband, correct?”

Javert nodded along until he heard the word husband. He opened his mouth to say something, probably about his lack of husband, but closed his mouth when he saw Jean stare at him with pleading eyes. “Um. Yes, I live with my husband. That I have,” Javert lied.

“Okay, great!” the doctor smiled. “I’ll go get you a wheelchair and update you on in-home care before you’re discharged.” 

The doctor left the room and Javert turned his head slowly to look at Jean. “What did you tell them?”

Jean had the courtesy to look chagrined. “They wouldn’t let me in to sit with you so I told them we were married.”

Javert glared at him. “How did they even get my information?”

“Your coworker gave it to them. It was probably in police records. Also, your first name is James?”

“Don’t call me James,” Javert grumbled.

“Okay. Anyway, I was thinking you should probably live with me for a while.”

Javert twisted to see Jean so quickly his back hurt. “What?” He was reminded that he had been stabbed only a few days before. “Ow. But what?”

“Well, you heard the doctor. It’s probably not safe for you to try and do household things in your condition. You’re even going to have to use a wheelchair!”

“It’s in my back, not my legs,” grouched Javert. “I don’t see why I’ll need to use a wheelchair.”

“One of the nurses told me it was to avoid reopening the wound.”

“I’m not going to use a wheelchair. And I’m not going to stay at your apartment,” Javert said decisively.

-----

20 minutes later, Jean wheeled a disgruntled Javert off the hospital grounds to a familiar rusty Ford. “That’s police property,” Javert said flatly.

“I don’t have a car. And you don’t either. Your coworker let me borrow it,” Jean explained.

Jean, who was adamant about Javert being careful to avoid opening the wound again, helped Javert get into the passenger seat of the car. After Jean stowed the wheelchair in the trunk, he climbed into the driver's seat and started the car.

“So…” Javert started. His grumpiness was overridden by his curiosity. “What happened? Why were you kidnapped?”

“Well, you saw the letter,” Jean said, in lieu of explanation.

Javert rolled his eyes. “That didn’t explain anything.”

“Fine. I was approached by Montparnasse and given the letter.”

“Okay, but why did you get kidnapped?”

Jean muttered something that Javert couldn’t make out. “Speak louder,” Javert complained.

“I said, I went to the meeting spot early with the intent of capturing them for you,” Jean said, blushing.

Javert wasn’t sure what he expected, but this wasn’t it. “And let me guess, they completely overpowered you?”

Jean nodded and kept his eyes trained on the road. “Yeah.”

Javert drummed his fingers restlessly on the window. Jean was incredibly stupid, trying to get the Patron-Minette gang for him, but… It was also kind of attractive, Javert pondered. Upon that last thought, Javert felt his cheeks go red and he covered the side of his face that was closest to Jean with his hand, as if Jean might see. Certainly Javert didn’t like Jean like that, right? And there was no way Jean liked him back. Javert pushed the thought from his mind and resolved to not think about romance any more.

Instead, he thought about his injury and readied himself to live with Jean for a while.

One more chapter after this. Honestly I got kind of burnt out with this story so I wanted to wrap it up in only a couple more chapters after the big rescue. Most of this chapter was based on self-indulgent whims (such as the husband thing lol). Hope you all enjoy anyway!


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Jean’s apartment was the same as Javert had remembered: kitchen, reading nook, candlesticks. There had been some discussion about how to get Javert up the stairs in the wheelchair but eventually Javert decided to just walk up the stairs and deal with the pain. Jean protested the whole way like he was the one with the injury and not Javert. Eventually, though, they made it to the apartment.

Cosette was sitting in the reading nook. She stood up when she heard them enter, and exclaimed, “Papa! You’re home!” She hugged him quickly and turned her attention to Javert. “Javert! Thank you so much for finding Papa.” Cosette moved to hug Javert, too, but Javert moved backwards just in time.

“No problem,” Javert said, grimacing. “Although if you could refrain from hugging that would be appreciated.” His back hurt more than he’d care to admit. Cosette’s eyes widened in understanding.

“I was scared when Papa called and said you had to go to the hospital. But you’re better now? You were in there for a couple days, I didn’t even see Papa after you saved him. I—”

Jean cut her off. “Cosette, Javert is still injured. Could he sit down and we can continue the conversation?”

Cosette, chastised, pulled out a chair for Javert at the kitchen table. Javert shot a grateful glance at Jean before sitting down.

“So, Cosette,” Jean started, “Javert’s going to stay here for a while. The doctors recommended it.”

There was a pause. “Where do you want me to sleep?” Javert asked.

“I was thinking you could sleep in my bed and I can sleep on the couch. Just while you’re staying,” Jean answered.

Javert, affronted, said, “What? No, I’ll sleep on the couch. It’s your house.”

Cosette, who had remained silent since she had sat down at the table, began to speak. “You could both sleep in Papa’s bed.” She shot a meaningful glance at Jean, but Javert couldn’t even begin to decipher what it meant.

Jean’s face reddened. “Um, only if Javert is okay with it.”

Javert cleared his throat and focused his gaze on a suddenly very interesting spot on the wall. “I’m okay with it.”

Cosette smiled, and said, “Good! Then it’s settled.” She peered at her watch. “Oh, I have to go, Enjolras just reminded me we have a meeting today.” Then, staring intently at Javert, she said, “I can’t thank you enough for saving Papa. He’s told me so much about you.”

Just like that, she had whisked out the door, leaving Javert and Jean sitting at the kitchen table. “So, are you going to give me the grand tour?” Javert asked.

Jean laughed and stood. “Alright. This is the kitchen, I don’t use it much because there’s a much better kitchen downstairs in Madeleine’s. I made Madeleine’s first, but the apartment was already finished when Cosette and I moved in so I didn’t see much point in changing it.”

Javert, still sitting, questioned, “Why did you decide to create Madeleine’s?”

“Normally the story I tell is that I love coffee, baking, and making people happy, and that it seemed like the best fit,” Jean said, “But seeing as you know about my past, I guess the real reason is that I needed something permanent. After… Montreuil, Cosette was the only thing keeping me together. We stayed in a convent for a while when she was younger but she told me she wanted to go out and see the world, and I agreed. I felt like, maybe if I was unrecognizable as mayor, I could be unrecognizable as someone else. So, Jean Fauchelevent was born.”

“Did you know…” Javert started. He trailed off.

“Did I know that you worked at the police station just down the street?” Jean chuckled. “I did not.”

Javert had to tilt his head to see Jean’s face. “What did you think when I first entered the shop?”

“I thought you had figured it out. I thought you were going to arrest me. I still feel a little like you’re going to arrest me.”

“I’m— I’m not going to arrest you,” Javert said, but it sounded forced, so he repeated it again, more firmly. “I won’t arrest you.”

Jean’s eyes narrowed, but his voice was gentle. “That sounded unsure.”

“Not intentionally. I don’t want to arrest you. I don’t. But a part of my brain says, ‘you searched for him for years, take him back to Toulon.’ I don’t know how to turn it off.”

“When I first left Toulon, I was in a similar situation.”

Javert scoffed. “You were a cop who realized the system he’s believed in his whole life might be flawed?”

Jean laughed. “Not quite. I was angry at the world. I was angry at the police for how I was treated in Toulon. The first thing I did when I got out for parole was try to find a place to sleep. No one would take me in, because why would they trust me, right? I ended up laying on the concrete. A man approached me and told me he’d give me a place to sleep. But I was so angry, and I lashed out at him,” he pointed to the candlesticks on the mantle. “Those were his. I stole from him, but he told the police he’d given them to me. The bishop, the man who had saved me, told me I needed to become a better man with the silver. And I realized my angry mindset was flawed, just like your justice system. So, I found something else to believe in aside from the consuming anger I felt.”

Javert waited to see if Jean would add anything. When he didn’t, Javert muttered, “Thanks. I’ll think about that.”

Jean clapped his hands together. “Well! Let’s continue our tour, yeah?”

Javert heaved himself to his feet and followed Jean to the living room. Jean pointed around the room at multiple items. “There’s the reading nook, if you like to read you’re welcome to borrow some of the books. There’s the TV, we only watch HGTV and cooking shows, but you can use any channel.”

Jean waved his hands animatedly as he moved into the hall. He must have noticed Javert looking at the photos on the wall, because he smiled brightly and said, “Cosette was so cute when she was young. Her hair used to be blonde, you know, but it’s turned a darker brown now.”

“I see there aren’t any pictures of you,” remarked Javert.

“Oh, well, that’s not nearly as important,” Jean said, dismissing the notion with a wave of his hand, and motioning for Javert to keep walking through the hallway.

Javert’s brow furrowed. “Of course it is,” he argued, but walked down the hall anyway.

Jean followed and opened the door on the right. “This is my room,” Jean declared, pushing open the door. Inside, Javert saw a room that matched Javert’s apartment for sparseness— it held a bed with plain white sheets, a wooden desk pressed into the corner, and a door that presumably led to the closet.

“It’s very… neat,” Javert commented, as tactfully as possible.

“Thank you,” Jean replied, clearly not picking up on the fact that Javert was insulting the bedroom. He continued, “This is where we’ll sleep, since Cosette decided that’s what we should do. The bathroom is down the hall.”

Javert nodded in response. The arrangement seemed reasonable enough.

“Um, I guess, do you want to go to bed now?” Jean asked. “It’s getting pretty late.”

“Sure,” Javert said. He decided to not bring up the fact that he didn’t have pajamas, instead, laid down in Jean’s bed and attempted to sleep.

-----

Javert woke slowly. He blinked awake, remembering that he was staying at Jean’s house. He felt warmer than usual, and looked to his right and saw Jean sleeping next to him, arms tangled around his waist. Carefully, Javert extricated himself from Jean’s embrace.

Light streamed in from the window and reflected off of Jean’s hair, forming an almost halo-like shape around his head. Javert noticed the little smile that graced Jean’s features, and how his eyelids fluttered every so often. Javert was suddenly struck with a realization he had been trying to put off: he was in love with Jean Valjean.

Before Javert could dwell on these thoughts more, Jean’s eyes opened and he smiled at Javert. “I think I’m maybe a little bit in love with you,” Javert blurted before he could stop himself. Then he immediately covered his face with his hands. “Oh God, sorry—”

Jean’s hand touched Javert’s and gently pulled them off Javert’s face. Javert saw that Jean had sat up to mirror Javert’s position. The sunlight was, once again, perfectly settling on Jean’s white hair. Jean beamed and murmured, “I’m maybe a little bit in love with you too.”

Jean cupped Javert’s face in his hands and leaned in and brushed a kiss against his lips. It was everything he hadn’t dared to imagine and more, and as he looked at Jean’s soft smile, Javert thought, Yeah, everything’s going to turn out fine.

aaaand that's it! thank you for reading my first ever chapter fic! (also, sorry that the ending is super abrupt, tried to wrap up the conflicts as best I could while still finishing it as soon as possible lol)