Title: Badlands
Work ID: 34541821
Author: birdafterdark
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Alternate Universe - Western, Cowboys & Cowgirls, Some violence typical of the Wild West, Rating May Change, Train Robberies
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 2/?

Summary:
An outlaw, a sheriff, and a sharpshooter on the road, haunted by the past.

Work text:

Arizona Territory, 1890

 

The sheriff was asleep, his well-worn brown Stetson pulled down over his eyes, when Cosette approached the campfire, fiddling absentmindedly with her six shooter.

“I hope that’s not loaded,” Valjean murmured, keeping his voice low so as not to disturb the other man’s sleep.

Cosette did not respond to this, but sat down opposite him, adjusting her prairie skirt slightly so that she could cross her legs.

“Papa, I have something I need to tell you.”

Her unusually serious tone made his stomach clench with anxiety. To give himself something to focus on, he began pulling off his boots, a task that could take some time since they’d lost their boot jack a few weeks back. For a moment the night was silent save the crackling of the fire, but eventually Valjean cleared his throat and said, “Go ahead, then.”

Cosette was staring into the fire, seemingly unable to look him in the eye. “I want to go back to Dodge City,” she said softly.

Valjean could not stifle a small gasp. She looked up then, meeting his gaze from across the fire, and he knew that she was dead serious. 

Jean Valjean hopped his first freight train when he was 16 years old.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


Jean Valjean hopped his first freight train when he was 16 years old. He couldn’t say exactly why he did it, except that his parents had both passed away by then and he was looking at a bleak future of toiling away on someone else’s ranch, hoping to earn enough pennies to pay to live in someone else’s house. One evening, when he was dirty and sore from rounding up cattle, he stopped by the general store to purchase some coffee. While he was digging in his pocket for coins, the shopkeeper laid his newspaper across the counter, and Valjean squinted at the upside down text.

GO WEST, YOUNG MAN, one headline read.

So he did.

_____

 

He had always wondered where the freight trains went. As a boy, Valjean had memorized the schedule of the trains that passed through his small town and gathered the coal that fell off the cars to help heat the house. He’d often remain next to the tracks, watching the engine disappear into the distance in a haze of smoke. He wanted nothing more to than to be on that train one day, going somewhere else, anywhere else.

And one day he was. He was able to sneak on while the train was stopped and huddle in the corner of a box car. Even after the adrenaline rush faded, Valjean was grinning from ear to ear, high on the roar of the wind and the clank of the tracks and the feeling of having no idea where he was going, but going there fast.

Freight trains, Valjean thought, were freedom.

He soon fell in with a crowd of other hobos and mastered the art of sneaking onto a moving freighter and narrowly avoiding greasing the tracks. By attaching himself to an older ’bo who went by the name of Danny, he became adept at boiling his clothes to kill the lice, tasted his first Mulligan stew, and learned to read the signals other hobos scrawled near railroads, flophouses, and “jungles.”

_____

Javert was a young lawman in a small town in Wyoming Territory when he first saw Jean Valjean’s face. It was a sketch on a poster sent by the governor of the newly created state of Nebraska, and the woman who drove the postal stagecoach winked at him when she handed over a batch of them for him to hang around town. “Here’s a nice-lookin’ one, ‘specially for you,” she teased.

Javert scowled.

WANTEDDead or Alive

$10,000 Reward

The above award will be paid for the apprehension and delivery to the undersigned, or his proper agents, of

J. ‘DUSK RIDER’ VALJEAN,

Who escaped from the Jailor of Douglas County on October 12, 1870. At the time of his escape he was under indictment for train robberies and other crimes. 

The following is a Description of said J. ‘DUSK RIDER’ VALJEAN:

He is about twenty-three years of age, above five feet eight inches high, of a very muscular build, round face, with medium brown wavy hair and bushy mustache. His eyes are gray with a rather shrewd look. Noticeably drags his left leg when walking. He may wear a wig. Was last seen in a coat of a most objectionable yellow color. Despite his criminal nature, he converses intelligently and his manner is most gentlemanly. Do not let this fool you: This convict is armed and dangerous.

Arrest and send telegraph to Abraham Collier, Sheriff.

He hung the poster in the station, over his desk. He definitely did not gaze at it during the slow days.

_____

They were calling him the Dusk Rider, and sometimes a “modern Robin Hood,” both of which Valjean found embarrassingly grandiose. Other outlaws referred to him as the Hermit, thanks to his nature of working on his own for any job that would allow it, and that was a moniker he could accept.

His specialty was holding up trains, a task that generally required an accomplice or two. But his day to day involved smaller jobs, mostly highway robberies of wealthy travelers, for which he never accepted help.

Sometimes, in the dead of night, he’d ride into towns with a threadbare black bandanna over his face. In the mornings, hobos camping out near the latest big robbery would find a mysterious bag of valuables next to their bindles.

____

A few years later, the robberies attributed to the Dusk Rider abruptly stopped. No one was sure why. Most assumed he was dead.

Javert did not. He was a sheriff in a larger town now. He still kept a certain wanted poster on his wall and watched for a gentlemen with gray eyes and an objectionable yellow coat.

Chapter title is from the song "Tulare Dust" by Merle Haggard. 

“Go West, young man,” is a phrase attributed to the newspaper editor Horace Greeley, but it’s actually not clear where and when it originated.

Valjean’s trainhopping and hobo activities are probably more early 20th century than mid-19th. As far as I can tell, this stuff WAS happening back then, but it was far less common. 

The stagecoach driver who winked at Javert is a reference to the extremely badass Stagecoach Mary, although it is not quite the correct time or place. I recommend you look her up, though!

Sorry for the lack of actual cow-wrangling in this fic. :(