Title: His Most Precious Treasure
Work ID: 35018869
Author: Faerdhinen
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Tooth-Rotting Fluff, Everything is Beautiful and Nothing Hurts, Kissing, Post-Seine
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Work was the only thing that he had for a lifetime. But now, there's someone for Inspector Javert to come home to.

Work text:

Once upon a time, Inspector Javert was a man who valued his work above all else.The prefecture, and the law, they were something that he held in highest regard for a lifetime. Back then, he would've been fine working until it is past midnight despite his colleagues desperate pleas for him to stop and go home. Back then, he'd hunt criminals to hell and back to see that Justice is served accordingly. But now, Javert could not help but to yearn to come back home as soon as possible.As such, with that dedication in mind, Javert blazed through the report of the latest case and disappeared from the station. Unaware of the small smiles his colleagues gave him when they see the Inspector finally prioritizing his own life instead of work. He had not hesitated calling a fiacre as he wanted to be home as soon as possible and the moment it screeched to a halt, Javert all but leapt out of the door.When he opened the door, what greeted him was the reason he wished so desperately to be home. Work was still important, of course. But neither it nor law was what he held in highest regard now. It was this man who beamed at him, eyes crinkling at the corners, smiling as brightly as the sun under his white beard.This view that greeted him when he came home had become so dear to him. Each day, he'd see this sight when he came home, again, and again, without fail and Javert would kiss him on his lips right then and there accordingly.The fiacre driver might still be there. Their neighbors might see them. Let them see. He could not care of said trivialities. His most precious treasure is there and he'd be damned if he were to give him anything less than this. Besides, the man himself did not seem to mind either that he was being kissed in public as evident by the way he melted under his kiss.When he pulled back, his cheeks were flushed red, his eyes were filled with warmth, and his lips was somewhat bitten and shining with saliva. But he the smile there did not falter and he took Javert’s hand, leading him inside where they would eat dinner and he would listen to him read novel or bible passages until they become drowsy and retire to their bed. Javert, for his part, wouldn't wish for anything else and went happily with this man that had become his most precious treasure, a small smile tugging his lips as he was brought back home once again.