Title: and the river runs
Work ID: 35242303
Author: corneliushickey
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Suicidal Thoughts, Romani Javert, Javert Lives, Angst, Catharsis, Violent Thoughts, Sexual Repression, Mental Health Issues, Valjean is on the spectrum, Dysfunctional Relationships, to slightly more functional ones, Obsession, Codependency, just a little fluff, Reconciliation, Spiritual agony, Javert's Confused Boner, Post-Seine, Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder - PTSD, Depression, Kidnapping, I haven't read the Brick in years, Religious Guilt
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 7/?

Summary:
Javert is rescued by boaters after floating down the Seine. He returns to his post but does not recover. Intent on killing himself again, he follows his instincts to find Jean Valjean one last time.

Work text:

Every day that Javert wakes, he curses. 

He curses his bed, the sheets, the four walls around him. He curses the boaters in Saint-Cloud who pulled him from the Seine and forced the water from his lungs. He curses the hospital workers who nursed him back to health. And he curses Chabouillet for believing him when he says it was an accident. 

He is ill for two weeks after he is pulled from the water. He is wracked with a cough that wrings blood and water from his lungs like a rag. His fever dreams are consumed in the noise of the river, the crashing and rushing of the roiling current. There are faces in his dreams, warped by the water, their mouths open in silent screams. He sees his mother’s face, the wide-eyed dead faces of the rebels at the barricade, the little street urchin Gavroche with blood streaked across his forehead. But most of the faces are Valjean’s. 

He has fits where he loses himself to the rushing of the river inside of him. He throws things, curses, refuses medicine. The nuns grow frightened of him, and they bring in a swarthy woman, perhaps a midwife? One day, as she is changing him, she scoffs and holds his sweat-soaked shirt aloft.

“All this water,” she grumbles. “It seems impossible. You should have drowned.”

Javert likes the woman immediately. She is right- he should have drowned. 

When he is well again, Chabouillet welcomes him back with open arms. Gives him his old job back, even gives him a week’s wages despite his protest. 

“I’ve never known you to be so clumsy, Javert,” he says, a twinkle of amusement in his eye. Javert stares at him and finds nothing ingenuine about the man’s expression. He truly does believe that it was an accident. Javert wants to laugh, but he can’t. 

--------------------------------------------------------

The first day he is back on patrol, he seeks Valjean.

The address Valjean gave him on that night leads him to a secluded lot, a house hidden behind a luscious and overgrown front garden. He prowls the perimeter, finds the back way in. A clever hiding place for Valjean- the alleys between houses make for a quick escape, an unseen way to move, like a rat’s tunnel. 

He is able to jimmy the back gate open, but the little house is locked tight. There are ways Javert could break the door in, force the window, but he does not. He stands stiffly in the garden, sniffing the air and watching the dark windows as if he might see Valjean at any time. But the house has not been occupied in a while. 

Of course Valjean would not linger here. Only a fool would. 

Javert’s inner turmoil, he realizes, is utterly invisible to those around him. The denizens of the streets give him his usual berth, his usual frightful glances. Chabouillet acts as if nothing has happened, and his limited interactions with his co-workers are as mundane as ever. Javert wonders what he must look like from the outside. He must look the same, make the same expressions, carry himself the same way. He is still pressed into the mold of Javert. But inside, he is reeling, he is falling always. The smell of the river never leaves the back of his nose, his mouth. He walks along the bridges at night and the idea of hurling himself into the waves again is as pleasant and fleeting as the scent of the flowers in Valjean’s garden. He dangles the tip of one boot into the empty air, watching the buckle glint in the lamplight. 

But Valjean is still in the city. He must be. Javert can feel his presence, can smell him on the air. Years of searching, of hunting, just to falter the moment his teeth were at the jugular- the defeat eats at him always. But he can still feel Valjean. 

If the convict had any sense, he’d have fled the city. He could be anywhere in the continent by now. Valjean could be gone forever, but the idea that he is still nearby is the only thing that keeps Javert from taking that fateful second step into the dead gray air above the Seine again. 

Javert combs the city for a week. He can feel Valjean but he cannot find him, and the panicking, floundering thing in his chest thrashes harder and harder. He can no longer sleep. He prowls the streets all the same, blind to what happens before him. He counts the days before he will fall into the Seine again. One day, two days. I will give it three days. If I do not see him after four, I will do it and I will die properly.

It only takes five. 

It is night, and Javert is drawn to the candlelight of the convent. He feels like a traitor, stepping upon its grounds. He remembers stories of God that his mother had whispered in the dark light of their cell. He had once walked through his life worrying God's name in his mouth like a stone. He had once gazed at the stars and thought he was looking towards the heavens. But there is only emptiness now.

He feels like a dark impostor on the grounds of the convent. But there is something that draws him towards the chapel. 

When he sees the figure in the chair before the altar, white-curled head slumped beneath the candlelight, all of the breath leaves Javert’s lungs at once. 

He thinks, for a horrible clear moment, that Valjean is dead, that he will have passed away peacefully in his sleep. But as Javert stumbles across the chapel floor, the white head wearily raises, and Valjean’s eyes are upon him.

How old he looks. His face so rough, his eyes so tired. It fills Javert with rage. Valjean regards him with complete calm. There is no fear in his face, no dread. He looks at Javert with eyes so knowing that he feels the need to avert his own gaze. 

“Ah,” says Valjean, ever so quietly. “You’re late, Inspector.”

The silence of the chapel is deafening. Javert’s hands clench on his hat until the fabric is bent and buckled. His mouth is dry. Valjean’s white curls are like butter in the candlelight. His prey sits before him, unmoving, unafraid. 

“I am here,” Javert forces, “to arrest you, Jean Valjean.” 

“Very well,” comes the weary response. “But you must know something, Inspector. I am old, and very tired. I may die soon.”

“I will not be swayed by your weakness,” Javert spits. “I told you I would come for you. And here I am.” 

He strides across the floor and grabs both arms of Valjean’s chair, leaning down to face him. His blood is racing. Valjean barely flinches.

“Come. With me. Now,” Javert hisses through clenched teeth. A drop of sweat rolls off his forehead and disappears into Valjean’s clothes. This close, he can see how pallid his face is, how deep the bags beneath his eyes are. He seems to have aged ten years in mere months. Valjean gazes back at him, emotionless. 

“You may have to help me,” Valjean murmurs. 

“I will carry you if I have to,” Javert says. “I will drag you.” 

For a moment, there is a flash of a warm expression on Valjean’s face. Something that might be familiarity, or amusement. 

“I would expect no less,” he says. “Very well, then. Give me your arm, please."


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


To an observer, they must look like lovers taking a walk in the moonlight.

Valjean leans heavily on Javert, seeming truly weakened. The pressure of him along the side of Javert’s body makes his head spin. He swings wildly between giddiness that makes his head light as a feather, and another emotion, something that hurts.

Javert glances downwards at Valjean. All the strength of Jean-the-jack has left him. His white curls have gone from gold to silver in the moonlight, stark against the sleeve of Javert’s coat. His throat tightens. How close Valjean is to him! After all this time!

Javert realizes he is breathing heavily through his nose and tries to calm himself. Now is not the time to falter. No one knows where he is- if Valjean regains his strength, he could overpower him and escape once again. Though the man stands a head shorter than he, Javert knows that his strength could still surpass any man’s. 

Javert has not yet thought through his plan. There is too much swimming in his head. He stops suddenly. Where will he take Valjean? To the police station? What will he look like, half-crazed, dragging an old sick man into the station in the middle of the night? Even if he were to show the numbers tattooed on his chest…no, he couldn’t go to the station. 

Valjean looks up at him.

“Where are you taking me?” he asks. His voice is flat, exhausted. 

Javert looks around the dark streets. In his head, an idea is forming- surely not a sound one, but an idea nonetheless. He has always relied on his instincts- why should he falter now?

Your instincts are wrong, says a voice in his head. They have always been wrong. With the voice comes the rushing of the river, suddenly and completely drowning out his surroundings. 

When he returns to himself, he is clutching his head in his hands. Valjean is still standing there.

“Javert, are you well?” he asks. There is genuine concern in his voice, and Javert hates him for it.

“I’m fine,” he spits. 

He glances around the dark streets again, his heart in his throat. Across the way, a small carriage is hitched to a post. Its driver sits idly as he waits for someone to patronize his business. 

Javert pulls Valjean across the street. He calls out to the driver, who startles at the sight of them.

“I require the use of your carriage,” he says. “For official police business.”

The young man looks at him and Valjean in bewilderment. Perhaps he believes Javert, or thinks him a dangerous madman. It does not matter; he indicates for them to climb inside.

“Take us south,” Javert says to him as he steps up. “Out of the city.” 

As the carriage clatters through the streets, Javert attempts to calm his racing thoughts. He realizes that, once again, he does not have a plan. If he truly intended to arrest Valjean, then he would have done it already. He thinks Valjean might know this too. 

But he cannot arrest him, of course. So what is there to do now? 

Valjean is looking out the window listlessly. They sit in silence for a long while, then he turns to Javert.

“Why now?” he asks. “Why let me go on so long?”

Javert’s hands clench into fists where they rest on his legs.

“After our last meeting, I was…indisposed, for a period of time,” he replies. 

“And you did not alert the other police to my location?”

“…No.”

“Why not?” 

When Javert is silent for a while, Valjean sits back and looks out the window again.

“I suppose it doesn’t matter,” he murmurs. “For what it is worth, I am…I am glad it was you.” 

“You are glad,” Javert repeats flatly. 

“Yes,” says Valjean, and for a moment he even smiles. “It is…fitting, I suppose, that you found me tonight.”

“And why is that?” 

“I went to the convent to die,” Valjean says simply. “I am ill, and my Cosette is gone from me now.”

Javert recalls the little orphan that ran hand-in-hand with Valjean all those years ago, her tattered skirts and dirty hair. 

“What happened to her?” he asks.

“She is married,” Valjean says. “Her husband knows everything about me. Slowly but surely, he has been distancing her from me. They are very happy together. I am no longer needed.”

Javert stares at him.

“Her husband,” he says. “He knows of your past? He knows you are a criminal.” 

“Yes,” says Valjean. He regards Javert with a bemused smile. “And he thinks I killed you.” 

It takes a moment for Javert to connect the dots. 

“He was at the barricade,” Javert says. But none of those young men had survived, except…

“He was the boy you carried out of the sewers.” 

Valjean nods again.

“Does he know that you are the one who saved him?” Javert asks.

Valjean shakes his head.

Javert opens his mouth, closes it. He should not care, but this makes him angry.

“You are a fool,” is what he decides to say.

“Why?” Valjean asks. His eyes narrow. “Because I did not use the rescue as leverage, to wedge my way into their lives? I considered it. I did. But good deeds are not tools, Javert.” 

Javert bares his teeth. “Do not lecture me on good deeds.”

Valjean simply stare back at him for a while dully before looking out the window again. 

Tbere is another long silence.

“Where are we going?” Valjean finally asks.

 

Javert does not know.

Thank you all for your patience. I've been writing this piece out of order; putting it in order is the hardest part.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


The carriage rattles on through the darkness. The moon shines through the window, turning Valjean’s hair to silver. Javert is worrying at a loose thread on his sleeve, unable to keep his hands still as his mind continues to race. 

It is difficult to think over the roaring of the river. 

Several long minutes stretch on. Valjean is no longer waiting for Javert to speak to him; he’s returned to staring out the window. Javert takes off his hat and rubs the brim between his fingers. He wipes the sweat from his brow, trying to ignore the strands of hair that have come loose from their queue.

Perhaps Valjean thinks they are going to Montreuil-sur-mer, or Toulon. Maybe he thinks Javert means to find closure that way. To take him back to where it began, this terrible thing between the two of them. It is best if Valjean believes that, Javert decides. It gives him more time to think. But Valjean doesn’t know that Javert will not arrest him. It would be…wrong.

Wrong? Since when had he ever considered justice to be wrong? Valjean was a wanted criminal, he had been for years-

He is not a criminal, Javert thinks. He is a saint. He acts in selflessness. He kept Javert in his employ at Montreuil-sur-mer, despite the danger to himself. He spared Javert’s life. And the list of other good deeds goes on and on and on- 

If Valjean is a good man, then Javert’s entire life, everything he held to be sacred and true and unwavering-

The roaring gets so loud that Javert must grab his head. He can taste blood and mud in the back of his mouth. The agony that has been his every day since his rescue is rising in full force, rising, rising like the tide- 

There is a warm pressure on him. Two hands on his chest. The river is quiet for just a moment, and he can gather his wits. He opens his eyes to see Valjean’s face looming large. The other man is awkwardly stooped in the carriage, leaned towards him.

“Javert,” he says. His eyes are wide, brows drawn together in concern. “What is happening to you?”

Javert looks down to where Valjean’s hands are on his chest. He pushes him. Valjean bounces back into his seat and lets out a harsh breath. Javert is suddenly flooded with shame. He wants to pull Valjean back to him-

His head is spinning. He can no longer be here.

“Stop the carriage,” he says loudly. The driver hears him and brings the horses to a stop. Javert flies from the cabin, stumbling as he goes. He spots a copse of trees nearby- a small park, away from the eyes of the lamps and windows. 

Javert makes a beeline for the park, ignoring the shouts of the carriage driver behind him. In the safety of the dark, he leans against a tree, and lets the sound of the river drown him from the inside out. 

 

When he finally comes to, he is on his knees, and someone’s hand is on his back.

“Leave…” Javert says through gritted teeth. “I wish you would leave. I gave you the chance. Again.” 

“Yes,” says Valjean. His voice is so tired, so weak. “I know.”

“You are pursuing your fate,” Javert says haltingly, “with all the fervor with which I used to pursue you.” 

Valjean laughs quietly. Javert pushes himself to his feet. It is dark in the little grove, with just a bit of moonlight to see by. They are alone, and Javert cannot take it anymore. He reaches inside his coat. 

“You are in a crisis, Javert,” says Valjean. He straightens up, letting out a pained groan. “I can…I can…” 

Javert puts a few steps between them. He turns and lifts his revolver. The click of the hammer makes Valjean raise his head. 

“I don’t want your help,” Javert hisses. “I want you to leave. Now.”

Valjean looks down the barrel of the gun. He leans back against a tree and sighs. 

“You bring me all the way out here,” he says, “just to tell me to leave. I thought you were going to arrest me. That was your intent, was it not?”

Javert shakes his head. He takes a few steps towards him. “I was never going to arrest you,” he admits. “I…I cannot. Not anymore.” 

Valjean tilts his head. “So,” he says. “Not to arrest me, then?” He takes a few shaky steps, closing the distance between them. He takes Javert’s wrist and moves it so the muzzle of the revolver is pressed to his chest, over his heart. 

To Javert’s horror, Valjean smiles at him. 

“Then this,” he murmurs, “is the last kindness you can do for me.” 

In Javert’s mind, he had seen the situation play out differently. He’d hoped that Valjean had approached to disarm him, and then either beaten him senseless or turned the revolver on him and painted the ground with his brains. But that wouldn’t have happened, even if Valjean wasn’t weakened. Because Valjean is not the man Javert had believed him to be. He never has been. 

If I were stronger, Javert thinks, I could end it for him. For both of us. I could end our suffering. After all, there are two bullets in the chamber. 

But Javert cannot. He will not. When Valjean presses lightly with his thumb on Javert’s own to depress the trigger, Javert pulls away quickly. He throws the pistol into the trees.

Valjean stares up at him. His eyes are bright, bloodshot. He sways, unsteady on his feet. He grabs onto Javert’s lapels. 

“What do you want from me?” Valjean sobs. 

“I don’t know,” Javert rasps. “I don’t know. I am…I am sorry.” 

The river is roaring. Valjean closes his eyes and tears fall down his face. Javert is compelled to lean forward. He presses his lips to Valjean’s forehead.

Almost instantly, he recoils. Valjean’s skin is burning hot. 

“If you’re not going to kill me,” Valjean says into his coat, “then lay me down here and let me die.” 

“No,” Javert replies. He bends, putting his arm around Valjean’s legs; he lifts him. He is far too light. 

Like a man possessed, Javert runs out of the park and back into the streets with Valjean in his arms.

Hello everyone. I hope you all had good holidays- they are always a busy time for me. I should be updating a bit more frequently now.


(See the end of the chapter for notes.)


It seems like Providence to Javert that the lamplit streets are familiar to him; they are in Saint-Cloud. The hospital he rushes Valjean into is the very same in which he was nursed back to life not two months ago. He has to carry him there- the carriage driver is nowhere to be found- and his whole body screams with the effort. 

Stepping back into the hospital feels like falling asleep, in a distinctly terrible way. Javert pushes away the feeling as he frantically explains Valjean’s situation to the nurses, ignoring how they start at the sight of him. But when they have disappeared with the other man into a room and Javert is left out in the dark, the river rushes over to claim him. 

He is able to hide in some forgotten cloyster, away from the eyes and ears of the other residents. When the fit finally stops, he thinks hours may have passed. Every bone in his body aches and there is a dried crust of snot and tears all over his face, crystallized on his sleeve. 

In one of the empty rooms he finds a washbasin and scrubs himself hard. What looks back at him from the grimy glass above the basin is not a man but a beast. Wild-haired, long and yellow-toothed, eyes like a corpse’s. Javert seizes the glass and dashes it to the ground.

From the tiny window of the wardroom he can see just a glimpse of the river through dark buildings, glinting and rough like hammered silver. 

“Soon,” he murmurs to it. “Sooner, if he does not live.” 

This must be longing, what he is feeling. A longing to be carried by the current, with no control; a longing for the snapping of bones and the snuffing of breath. Pain to bring one last terrible feeling before the long cold dark.
It is the same thing Javert felt as a boy, gazing at the night sky from between the bars of their cell; that pull towards change, towards destruction, towards a dissolving of himself into something greater. 

Now he finds himself weighed down with fatigue as he sags onto the hospital bed. He thinks of Valjean, the source of all of this. How having him close, touching him with his lips, made him feel like he might drop dead. Being near him is a different sensation; equally unbearable but totally different. 

If Valjean dies, there will be no alternative. 

For the time being, Valjean lives. He must live. For him to die now would be…it would be unfair. 

Javert jerks awake with a start. He has, at some point, laid down on the hospital bed and gone into a half-sleep. The room is full of daylight. 

He staggers down the hall. A nurse leaves a room, balancing a bucket of water on her hip. Javert looks in and sees Valjean. 

He is laid on his side, stripped down to his shirtsleeves, twined in the sheets like a fish in a net. Javert kneels at his side. The face on the pillow is flushed, restless. Javert puts his hand over Valjean’s and the other man opens his eyes blearily.

At the sight of Javert, Valjean’s eyes widen in panic. He tries to get up, but collapses weakly back onto the pillow.

It fills Javert with white-hot agony. 

“It’s all right,” he murmurs, trying to make his voice gentle. “Valjean, I am not here to hurt you. Or arrest you. I am here to…to keep you safe. You must fight. Cosette wants to see you.”

Valjean’s feverish eyes search his face. His mouth twitches. Javert has never comforted anyone before; he must be doing a terrible job. He wants to touch Valjean’s face, to smooth the sweaty curls away from his brow. But he dares not. 

The nurse re-enters, announced by the clacking of her shoes and the sloshing of the bucket on her hip. 

“Monsieur, you can’t be in here,” she says to Javert. She pushes him from the bed. Javert rises and thinks about asserting himself; he does not. 

“He’s still very sick,” she says, laying a wet cloth on Valjean’s forehead. 

“Will he live?” Javert asks. He hates the way his voice shakes.

The nurse looks over her shoulder at him. It is a look that he imagines she must employ often in her profession- there is a veneer of hopefulness, but her features are stern. 

“He is strong,” is all she says. 

“Indeed,” Javert murmurs. He finally tears his eyes away and drifts back into the hall. 

He wonders what Valjean sees in his fever dreams. He wishes he could know. What dead faces parade past, what haunts him.

For the time being, he must wait.

A lot of Les Mis fics are heavily researched and based on actual geographical/historical knowledge. This one is not!

I apologize for these chapters being so short. This is the first fic I've published since middle school, so I'm still trying to figure out what works for me pacing-wise. Hopefully the more frequent updates make up for the short length.

In the hallway, he nearly runs headfirst into a familiar face. It is the midwife who they called in to nurse him. Javert towers over most men, but she is eye level with him.

“What are you doing here?!” she cries. “Did you fall into the river again?”

She looks him up and down and squints suspiciously. 

“My friend is sick,” Javert says. He points to Valjean’s room. 

“You have friends?” She laughs heartily.

He’s not my friend, Javert thinks. It’s not nearly as simple as that. But he just stands there and lets her laugh at him. 

“You look terrible,” the midwife remarks. “When was the last time you ate? Or slept?” 

Javert does not remember and tells her as much. She lets out a huff, like he is a naughty child instead of a grown man trying to kill himself, and takes him by the arm. 

“We will go to the kitchens,” she says, “and you will eat.” 

Being around her makes Javert feel relieved. He can sink fully into the pathetic, weak person he has become, and just let her lead him around. She retrieves two bowls of a meaty-looking soup and they sit together. Javert does not want to eat, but his stomach growls loudly and the midwife glares at him.

They eat in silence for a while. Then she puts her spoon down and gives him that calculating look.

“So, this ‘friend’ of yours,” she says. “Does he know about your accident?”

Javert clenches his spoon so tightly it almost snaps.

“No,” he says through gritted teeth. “He does not need to know.” 

The midwife glares at him. 

“You’ve not improved since the day you left this hospital,” she says. “Physically, you recovered. But your spirit hasn’t. I can tell that much just by looking at you.” 

Javert stares into the bowl before him. 

“What is it to you?” he asks. 

“Well, it would be a damn waste if I had spent two months bathing you, changing your sheets and enduring your abuse just for you to go and kill yourself.” 

Javert looks up at her. Her words are angry, but there is something very genuine in her expression. Idly, he wonders if she takes this peculiar bedside manner with all of her patients. 

Her lips press into a thin line. 

“Sorry,” she mutters. They return to eating in silence. 

When they are finished, she collects the empty bowls and grabs him by the shoulder with her free hand. 

“If you have found a friend, you ought to confide in him,” she says. “It will help.”

Javert watches her go, then makes his way back to Valjean’s room. The young nurse is leaving.

“May I see him now?” Javert asks. He tries to force some gentleness into his voice.

“I suppose you can,” the nurse sighs. “He’s still quite ill, but he is improving. Do not…excite him too much. And keep it short.”

Valjean is propped up on the pillows. He still looks terrible, but his face has lost its feverish flush. 

Javert kneels awkwardly besides the bed. Valjean follows him with his eyes. 

“The last time I saw you, you were afraid of me,” Javert says.

“I used to have nightmares about you,” Valjean murmurs. He is regarding Javert with an almost dreamy expression. A faint smile plays around his lips.

Javert’s stomach twists. He thinks he might lose his soup. 

Maybe Valjean can sense his distress, because he reaches out and puts his hand over Javert’s. 

“I have not had any nightmares recently,” he assures. “Not for a while. Just…dreams, strange ones. But no nightmares.” 

Javert stares at the hand covering his on the bed. Gingerly, he returns the gesture, pressing Valjean’s hand between both of his. 

They just look at one another in silence for a while. Javert feels his cheeks burning. Valjean’s eyes are sleepy and gentle; his white curls are spread across the pillows around his head like a halo. Javert wants to put his fingers in them. 

“You should hate me,” he says. Because he has to say something, and this is what he is constantly thinking. 

“I don’t,” says Valjean. “I never did.” 

“I find that hard to believe,” Javert says. He tries hard not to scoff. 

Valjean worries his lower lip between his teeth.

“You want me to hate you,” he says. It is not a question. “Why?” 

“It would make this…it would make it easier,” Javert replies. He has to look away. He stares at the scars on Valjean’s wrists.

“I’m not sure I understand,” Valjean says. “If I hated you, we would both be dead…”

“Yes,” Javert mutters. It would be easier to be dead than to deal with this thing between them. Small, hot and sharp, like a knife heated over a fire to cauterize a wound. Easier not to think about how the very man whose actions drove him to suicide has become necessary for his survival. 

Valjean stares at him blankly for a moment, then sighs sadly. Javert notes this particular quirk of his- that small delay in processing what has been said. As if he needs to turn the words over for a bit until he understands them fully. 

“I know how you feel, Javert,” Valjean says, his voice dropping to a whisper. “I feel…I felt the same way. I wished for death. But now, I…there is something…it makes me hopeful, when I see you.” 

The words twist in Javert’s gut like a knife. He doesn’t know if it’s agony or ecstasy. He squeezes Valjean’s hand, maybe too tightly. 

Valjean, shifts, turning towards him. 

“Will you stay?” he rasps. “Until I am well?” 

Javert looks up at him. There is a tear streaking its way down his cheek, into the white stubble creeping up his face like frost. 

“No, none of that,” Javert mutters. “Do not cry. Yes, I will stay. Yes.” 

He reaches up and swipes the tear from Valjean’s face. The motion is a bit more brusque than he means for it to be. He is not prepared for Valjean to grab his hand and turn his face into it. 

Valjean’s eyes are squeezed shut and his lips are brushing Javert’s palm. Javert can feel his warm breath on the inside of his wrist. He feels his own breath hitch, his heart hammer. The whole world seems to pause for a second. 

The nurse’s footsteps are sounding down the hallway. Javert pulls his hand away, too abruptly. 

“All right, then, monsieur,” says the nurse. “Your friend needs more rest. You can see him again tomorrow.” 

Javert stands awkwardly. Valjean's expression is wounded. Unable to stand it, Javert turns away and leaves the room as quickly as he can, almost bumping into the disgruntled nurse on the way out.

The midwife tells Javert he is allowed to stay in the hospital as long as there is a bed available. This surprises and embarrasses him. But he does not protest; there is nowhere else for him to go. 

Valjean mostly sleeps for the next few days. The nurses say this means his health is returning. Whenever he can, Javert sneaks in to watch him. Valjean’s face, despite the wear of life upon it, is serene when he sleeps. 

The episodes come and go, less frequently now that Valjean’s condition has improved. Javert weathers them alone.

The urge to be near Valjean is overwhelming and frightening. It feels like a succession, like an evolution of his hunter’s instinct. It is just as strong as the river in his head, and just as disarming. When he cannot be near Valjean, Javert simply waits. He stares out of the windows at the river and makes no more promises to it. 

On the third day, a nurse comes in to interrupt his reverie. 

“Your friend is awake, monsieur,” she says, “and he is asking for you.” 

Javert’s heart leaps. He rushes into Valjean’s room. The nurses have propped him up on the pillows. They have, changed his nightshirt, and washed him. He looks serene, though exhausted. At the sight of Javert he rises from the pillows a little. 

Javert goes to his side. He wants to fling himself to his knees but resists the urge. He is not unable, however, to stop himself from pressing his hand to Valjean’s forehead to see if the fever is truly broken. 

As he pulls his hand back, Valjean grabs it and holds it in both his own. He is smiling.

“You stayed,” he says.

“I said I would,” Javert replies. 

Valjean squeezes his hand. He looks down at his lap for a moment.

“I was going to ask you,” he says quietly, “why you saved me. But I have been thinking. I believe it’s the same reason I spared you that night on the barricade.” 

“It is not,” Javert admits. His head grows hot with guilt. “I did not save you. I simply did what any rational person would do.”

Valjean looks back up at him and tilts his head.

“I have never wanted you dead,” Javert says hastily. “Not ever. And now I cannot even bear to see you suffering.”

He sits on the bed as gently as he can muster. Valjean opens his mouth to say something, but Javert holds up his hand.

“No, I must say it all now, or else I never will. Originally I intended to arrest you. But as soon as I had you in my custody I realized that…made no sense. I cannot explain why I need to be near you. You, who threw my life into such chaos, who upended everything I thought I knew about the world…I cannot navigate this life anymore without you. I have spent every day for months wishing to die, and it is only these last few days that I have found respite from that, despite your presence causing a different kind of chaos.”

The words spill out of him thoughtlessly, like water. He must not stop yet-

“Let me take you back to Paris when you are well,” Javert continues. “To your girl- to Cosette. If her fool husband objects, I will break his front door down myself. I will ensure, to the best of my power, that you continue your life safe and undisturbed.” 

Valjean is staring at him with open mouth and shining eyes. He is silent for a long while. Javert cannot meet his eyes; he stares instead at where their hands are joined. 

“Javert,” Valjean finally says. “I…I don’t think I understand just yet…”

“I am not asking you to understand,” Javert says. “Just…just let me take you home. Say that you will let me. Please.” 

There are tears gathering in his eyes. He squeezes them shut. 

“Javert,” Valjean says again. The way he says his name makes his stomach twist. It is gentle, far gentler than anything he could ever deserve. “Javert, what has happened to you?” 

“I don’t know,” Javert whispers. His breath hitches. God, how loathsome he must seem, how pathetic. But he does know what has happened to him. It is sitting in the bed before him, holding his hand. The words will not come to his clumsy tongue.

“I think,” Valjean says slowly, “that there is much more for us to discuss. In a more private place. Would you agree?” 

Javert opens his eyes. Valjean is leaning towards him, so close their foreheads are almost touching. His hazel eyes are warm in the light from the window, the same eyes that have haunted Javert for years and years and years. Javert opens his mouth and closes it, struck dumb for a moment. 

“Yes,” he stammers. “Yes, there- there is much we need to speak of.” For now, they leave it at that. 

The next day, the midwife comes in to check on Valjean while Javert is there. 

“I am feeling much better,” Valjean tells her. “I would like to go for a walk with my…friend here, if I may.” 

“Seems a good idea to me,” she says. She leans close to Javert and claps her strong hand on his shoulder.

“Stay away from the river, won’t you?” she says, and gives him a wink. Javert curses her under his breath as she leaves the room.

Valjean tilts his head at Javert in silent questioning. 

“I’ll…explain later,” Javert grunts, and helps Valjean out of bed. Dread settles in his stomach as he realizes he must tell Valjean about it all now. 

They make their way down the street slowly, arm-in-arm. Valjean still leans on Javert a little, but it is clear that his strength is returning. Javert feels sick as he remembers the last time they walked together like this. The rushing begins to rise in his ears and he grounds himself by focusing on his steps. The boots that he once kept polished to a shine are now scuffed and dull. He counts silently, matching his pace perfectly with Valjean’s.

It is a damp but warm day in late April, and the streets are crowded with people. So Valjean and Javert walk in silence. The things they must say to one another cannot be overheard. 

Time suddenly seems to bend strangely, for Javert lifts his downcast gaze to find that they are far from the hospital. Valjean has been leading them for some time now. He has found a much quieter street, where they can slow their pace and finally find some respite. 

Valjean looks up at him silently. Javert can feel his gaze on the side of his face- earnest, warm like the sun. He sighs heavily. There is no point in silence any longer. Valjean deserves to know everything.

“After I left you,” Javert begins, “I was…I don’t know how to explain it. Lost, I suppose. Dumbfounded that, after everything that had transpired, that you would show me mercy like that at the barricade. I have always operated by a certain set of beliefs. I am good at what I do- what I did- because I do not allow myself to think beyond the code I have set for myself. And you…what you did, it challenged me. Because if you- a convict, a person I have always believed to be the textbook example of a criminal- if you are capable of such mercy, then everything is moot. Every person I have ever arrested, every judgement I have ever made, every life I have influenced- it was based on a flawed philosophy. The sum of my life, nothing but a complete and utter failure.” 

“And then,” Javert continues, “the aftermath of the barricade. Tragedy has never truly touched me; I have never been close enough to anyone. But the little urchin…the Thenardier boy…I keep seeing his face everywhere. That dead, still face.”

Javert has to stop walking. Valjean still holds onto his arm, watching him silently. Javert swallows thickly and forces himself to continue. 

“So it was that, you see. My mind is nothing but chaos now. So shortly after I left you, I threw myself into the Seine.” 

For a wild moment, he fears that Valjean will let go of his arm and leave him standing alone in the street. But he does not.

“I did not die, as I hoped to. I was rescued by some boaters who found me floating and revived me. I was nursed back to health in the very hospital we just came from. I tried to return to my job, but all I really intended to do was find you. I couldn’t even make any arrests. Every person I looked at had your face, or the boy’s. If I hadn’t found you by chance, I would be back in the river. And that is all. And here we are.” 

Valjean lets go of his arm and stands in front of him. The expression on his face is inscrutable, and he does nothing but stare at Javert for a long time. 

“I did not know,” he finally says. The gentleness in his voice does not enrage Javert as it usually does. “Is that why you are having these strange fits?”

“Yes,” says Javert. “I don’t know what it is. But I hear the river in my head. The sound of the rushing- the sound it made when I was drowning. Sometimes it is all I can hear, and I become lost.” 

Valjean nods. He worries his lower lip between his teeth, something that Javert connects with him being in deep thought. 

“I wish I could help you more, Javert,” he says after another long pause. His tone is defeated, almost exhausted, and it takes Javert off guard. “I wish I was a wiser man, or a smarter one. I wish I had a beautiful speech to say to relieve you of this pain.”

“I’m not asking for your help,” Javert says. But even as the words leave his lips he knows they’re false. 

“Then why are you here?” Valjean asks. He folds his burly arms tightly over his chest. 

Once again, Javert finds himself robbed of words. He clenches his fists at his sides. The answer is in him somewhere, clawing to get out. But he cannot give words to it to set it free. 

Javert shakes his head, and Valjean sighs.

“I’m sorry,” he says, and loops his arm back through Javert’s. “I thank you for all you have told me. Please, I just need a little time. Because I think I can help you. And I want to.” 

Javert looks at him. His throat prickles, and he feels suddenly overwhelmed, suddenly weak. 

Valjean huddles closer to Javert, and briefly presses his cheek to his arm. His curls tickle Javert’s nose and he can smell soap. 

“Take me back, please,” Valjean murmurs. 

They turn and make their way back up the quiet street. For once, Javert’s mind is silent. All he can hear is their steps and the wind in the trees.

Hello everyone- thank you for your continued support of this story. Deaths in my family have kept me from updating when I meant to. But I'm not abandoning this fic. I hope you enjoy this chapter.

“Surely they will release me soon,” Valjean says when Javert comes in to see him the next day. “I am feeling fine.” 

The window of the wardroom is open, filling the room with white sunlight. Everything is too bright. Javert’s head aches. 

He sits on the bed next to Valjean and, for the first time in ages, dares to consider the future. He intends on keeping his promise to Valjean, no matter what the cost. But what will happen then? 

Valjean is watching him in that eerie way he does. Javert does not look at him. He rubs at his sideburns. The walls of the hospital, the smells that hang there, seem to press in on him from all sides. 

Valjean does not press him. He simply waits until Javert has weathered his brief panic. Then he speaks again.

“I haven’t forgotten your promise to me,” he says softly. “Can we return to Paris together?” 

“Of course,” Javert says gruffly. “That was the plan, wasn’t it?”Valjean looks down at his lap. “I meant…can we return, as friends?” he says slowly. Javert notes how the word settles awkwardly between them. 

“Friends? Is that what we are?” Javert says. He can’t suppress a dark laugh. He stares at the corner of the room, where the light is least blinding. 

Valjean is quiet again, for so long that Javert worries he’s upset him. A quick glance at his face reveals his bushy white brows furrowed in thought.

“Let’s go on another walk,” he says. Javert concedes wordlessly. 

 

It is cloudier and colder than the day before, so the streets are not as crowded. It is probably no longer necessary for them to walk arm-in-arm, but they do it without thinking, and Javert decides it would be too embarrassing to acknowledge it. 

“Let’s find a park,” says Valjean. “Some private place. I would like to be perfectly alone with you.” 

Javert nods stiffly, trying to ignore how the words send a thrill of heat rushing all through him. 

A few blocks later, there is an empty little park with a path weaving through a copse of trees, a faint flush of green at their tops bearing the promise of spring.

As they meander along slowly, Valjean speaks. 

“What do you think of me, Javert?” he asks. “Be honest.”

Javert doesn’t like how the question makes him feel. “I think that you are a good man,” he says. 

“And that’s all?” 

“No,” Javert scoffs. “Of course not. But to…to put to words all that I think of you…”

He hazards a sidelong glance. Valjean is doing the same. 

“It would be impossible,” Javert concludes, returning his gaze to the trees. “You…confuse me. Being around you is…”

Valjean stops walking. “Is what?” he prompts. 

Javert lets go of Valjean’s arm. He turns to him and tries to look in his eyes, and the truth comes up out of him, acidic like vomit. 

“It hurts,” he says. He instantly sees his mistake as much as he feels it. Valjean’s shoulders tighten and his lips press into a tight line. 

“If I cause you so much pain,” Valjean says, “then why are you here?” His tone is careful and slow, each word picked deliberately; painful. 

“I have never been one to run from pain,” Javert says. It’s all he can think of. The river begins to trickle in. 

“Is there something you hope to gain from this?” Valjean is still speaking very slowly, and his brow is furrowed deeply. “I am not a…a trial for you to overcome. I am not a method for you to strengthen yourself.” 

Javert steps towards him, holding out his hands desperately. “That’s not what I mean,” he says. “I mean to….damnit, l…it was a foolish thing to say...” 

The rushing grows louder. Javert presses the heel of his hand hard into his forehead. He must speak more now, before he cannot. 

“I mean to say that I am in pain always,” he says. “Since the day you spared my life. Being around you is a different agony. One I find much preferable to the usual.” 

“I don’t wish to cause you pain, Javert,” Valjean murmurs. “Whatever reason you think you have…whether it’s to punish yourself, or to make penance…I release you from it.”

Javert strains against the river in his head. His stomach drops. For a second, he is standing back in the office of the mayor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, being released from his wrongs the exact same way. A gentle strength, an unfathomable sadness; a hot knife of shame he cannot bear. 

Javert thinks he can no longer bear it. He seizes Valjean by the shoulders.

“If you wish me gone,” he chokes out, “I will oblige. But if you can tolerate my presence-“

“That’s the strange thing,” Valjean says. He is looking at Javert with wide eyes, and he laughs a little. “I don’t want you gone. I feel…safe, with you. I feel all right. I don’t know when or how it changed, but it did.”

He reaches up and tucks a strand of loose hair behind Javert’s ear. Javert grabs his hand and holds it to his face. The warmth of the rough palm against his cheek is the only sensation, the only thing keeping him from being swept away. 

They stand like that for a while. Javert feels water falling all around him. 

“I am unmoored,” he whispers into Valjean’s palm. “I don’t know what to do, or who I am. I don’t know how to go on.” 

Valjean's thumb rubs across his cheekbone.

“Come, Javert,” Valjean whispers. “Come with me.” 

Javert blinks the tears from his eyes and allows Valjean to lead him off the path, into the secrecy of the trees. They come upon a little brook there, a silver thread in the moonlight. The whisper of its babbling nearly drives Javert to hysteria. As if sensing this, Valjean squeezes his hand. 

“I’m going to tell you a story,” Valjean says. His eyes are wide and serious. Even in the dark, Javert can see their gentle brown color. He thinks he would be content looking at nothing else for the rest of his life.

Then Valjean tells Javert the story of his life. His youth, his sister and her children. Only briefly does he speak of his imprisonment, for Javert knows that tale well, and the mere mention of Toulon sends a shiver through the strong body. And while he talks, they look at the brook. 

Valjean tells him the tale of the bishop. His voice begins to crack. Javert has never once been moved by tears, but Valjean’s are so visceral he feels as if they are his own. 

“I was changed in that moment,” Valjean continues. “And it was agonizing. I know the pain you are in, Javert. I know it because it was mine.” 

Javert’s breath feels ragged in his lungs. He cannot look at Valjean, so he squeezes his hand tighter.

Valjean tells him about Fantine, the prostitute Javert frightened to death. He tells him about Cosette and their flight to Petit Picpus, and what came after, and why he went to the barricade.

“And you,” Valjean says. “When I saw you tied up there, I did not spare you for God, or for the greater good. I spared you because I wanted to. And now I want to help you. There is good in you, Javert, and you are so close to it now.” 

“You would do this for me,” Javert says flatly. “I who have hunted you for years. I who hounded your every step, who made it impossible for you to have a normal life. You said you had nightmares about me. How can you share all this with me now?”

He turns to look at Valjean. There are tears streaking down his rough cheeks. He rubs at his nose with his sleeve.

“I don’t know,” says Valjean, voice tremulous. “I don’t know. Things have changed so fast, I…I once again feel myself on the precipice of something. But I’m finally not alone; you are here too, and I have not had a nightmare since the night you found me at the convent.” 

Javert feels an old urge, burning stronger than ever. He wants to fall on Valjean, to sink his teeth into his neck. He wants it still, but now – it is different now – how so?

He realizes he is holding tight to Valjean’s shoulders. Valjean reaches up and touches his face again. His face takes on a wondrous expression, like a child seeing the stars for the first time. 

“Are you with me, Javert?” Valjean murmurs. Their faces are so close- Javert can feel his breath on his lips. “Is it really you I’m seeing, that makes me feel this way?” 

Javert feels his stomach plummet. He is once again falling; the river crashes around him and closes over his head.

Then Valjean has closed his eyes and their lips are touching. 

Almost as soon as it happens, Valjean pulls away like he’s been shocked. He lets go of Javert and takes a step back.

“I am sorry, I’m so- I did not mean to-“ 

There is fear in his face, like a cornered animal. The expression sings to the hunter in Javert. Once again, he must prevent Jean Valjean from getting away. He seizes him roughly by his lapels, yanks him to his chest, and kisses him.

Valjean makes a noise against his lips and throws his arms around Javert’s neck. Javert’s mind goes blank. There is only the sensation of Valjean’s mouth against his, lips moving rough, his hands scrabbling at Javert’s back as if trying to pull him into his own skin. Finally, Javert plunges his hands into Valjean’s hair and holds tightly. He does not know what he’s doing. He does not need to know. And now Valjean opens his mouth and it is lips and teeth and tongues-

The river surges around them. Javert can feel the current in his hair and his sleeves. He can feel it strip the flesh from their bones, dissolving them, until they are nothing but bones interlocked with bones. Until their blood turns to water. Until there is nothing but this. And, with his mouth open to Valjean’s, their joined lungs full of water, Javert realizes that he can finally breathe.