Title: En Ribotte
Work ID: 35430997
Author: Esteliel
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Drunk Sex, Hand Jobs, Premature Ejaculation, Established Relationship, D/s
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
It was hard work to undress Javert. For every garment dropped to the floor, there was a price to be paid in kisses. Javert's arms seemed to have doubled in number; as soon as Valjean had managed to pull off one sleeve of his shirt, Javert had wrapped himself around him once more, sabotaging his efforts to render them both naked.

Work text:

Javert wasn’t stumbling or slurring his words, but Valjean knew he was drunk even before he was close enough to smell the wine on his breath.

Valjean was taken aback by the sight. He had not, he realized a moment later, seen Javert in such a state even once in the years they had spent together. Not even in the hulks, where guards habitually frequented the cheapest harbor taverns, had Javert ever appeared even slightly inebriated.

These days, they often shared a bottle of wine together with their dinner. Occasionally, when Javert had been unable to come up with a reason to decline an invitation from Cosette and her husband, they had returned home together in a carriage, tipsy from brandy and wine.

Still, in all these years, there had rarely been a moment when Javert had not appeared utterly in control of himself.

Javert was not in control now.

His eyes shone, wide and dark, not quite focused as they came to rest on Valjean. Javert’s coat hung slightly askew on his shoulders. When he pulled it off, he kept one hand on the coat rack to keep his balance before he straightened once more.

It was, all in all, an utterly surprising sight, and Valjean found that he had to bite back a sudden laugh.

“What happened, sir?” he asked instead.

Javert had warned him that he might return late, and so Valjean had waited for him with the tinge of worry that was always present when Javert saw to duties other than going through reports in the safety of his office in the prefecture.

Javert waved a hand, the gesture much grander than his usual precise movements.

“Nothing,” Javert said. He did not slur his words, although the drink had softened his voice. “Thought I had pinpointed their headquarters. We went to have a drink, see if we might hear something.”

“Did you?” Valjean asked, amused.

Javert snorted and came closer, although it seemed to take effort to focus his eyes on Valjean.

“They thought they could drink us under the table. Rivette couldn’t keep up, of course. But never mind.” Javert waved his hand dismissively and just barely missed hitting a glass on the table. “They weren’t suspicious of us by the end. That’s all that matters.”

His eyes were gleaming, full of unguarded emotion. Valjean couldn’t take his eyes off him, struck by the sight. 

“How much did you drink?” Valjean asked gently.

Javert scoffed. “Not enough to keep me from wanting you. Come here.”

He swayed slightly when he reached out for Valjean, and Valjean allowed himself to be pulled close.

Javert’s arms wound around him, Javert’s breath hot against his cheek. Javert’s weight came to rest against him, and while that wasn’t much of a burden for a man of Valjean’s strength, Valjean hadn’t felt that sensation before, except for the times when Javert had been wounded.

Javert moaned against his ear, then moved to kiss him. Valjean could taste the spirits in his mouth, revealing the state he was in even if Valjean hadn’t felt Javert sway against him.

You are drunk, Valjean thought but didn’t say it out loud, hilarity rising inside him as Javert’s arms tightened around him.

Javert’s mouth was hungry and hot against his own. The sight of Javert overwhelmed by desire wasn’t particularly rare, but even so, Valjean didn’t think he’d ever seen him lose control like this.

Slowly, they made their way towards the bedroom. Javert refused to let go of him, his mouth fervid and demanding. When they reached the door, Valjean was forced to extricate himself from Javert’s arms to open it—and the second it swung open, Javert’s arms wound around him once more as he tried to pull Valjean into another kiss.

This time, his kiss landed to the side of Valjean’s mouth, and Valjean could barely suppress the laugh that wanted to break free.

He doubted that Javert would ever admit to having been so inebriated, but something about the sight of Javert no longer entirely in control of himself stirred a deep tenderness in him. For a man to whom control mattered as much as it did to Javert, it meant a lot that he trusted Valjean even with these moments.

“Come on, sir,” Valjean said, smiling. “Let me take care of you.”

Javert followed his insistent tugging on his arm with a grumble of protest, half stumbling into the bedroom after Valjean.

It was hard work to undress Javert. For every garment dropped to the floor, there was a price to be paid in kisses. Javert’s arms seemed to have doubled in number; as soon as Valjean had managed to pull off one sleeve of his shirt, Javert had wrapped himself around him once more, sabotaging his efforts to render them both naked.

“Sir,” Valjean protested, laughing softly between kisses, “this isn’t helping.”

Javert stilled suddenly and moved back half a step, swaying lightly as he eyed Valjean from glazed eyes.

“Why are you dressed?” he demanded, his brows drawing together as if he had only just now noticed that particular detail.

“Because you haven’t given me a chance to undress so far.” Amusement mingled with fondness as Valjean looked at Javert. “Stay there, sir.”

Hastily, he began to strip, clothes dropping to the floor. At any other time, Javert would have punished such negligence with a frown or worse—but this day, Javert seemed to have no eyes at all for the trail of fashionable shirt, jacket and cravat now lying crumpled on the floor.

A moment later, Javert’s arms wound around him once more. Javert’s lips were hot and wet against his cheek, his ear, his brow, nuzzling wherever they could reach while Valjean tried to steady them both under the onslaught.

“Come here, sweetheart,” Javert murmured as he tried to pull them towards the bed, brandy on his breath.

Valjean exhaled, eyes suddenly stinging as he leaned his head against Javert’s.

It wasn’t that Javert was usually sparse with his affection. He showed his love in a hundred ways; Valjean had no reason to doubt it. Still, this was new, and as surprising as it was to find Javert drunk, Valjean felt himself touched by how unguarded Javert dared to be around him.

“Let’s get you to bed, sir,” he said tenderly, carrying most of Javert’s weight as he led them to the bed.

Javert sprawled on the sheets with a relieved groan. Valjean used the chance to light the lamp on the bedside table, then felt Javert’s arms wind around him once more, Javert’s mouth nuzzling against his nape.

Smiling, Valjean turned in his arms, then found himself kissed hungrily, Javert’s eyes glazed with drink. It was a wet, sloppy kiss, but there was something exhilarating to the lack of inhibition and coordination. Valjean licked saliva from his bruised lips when he finally managed to draw back, breathless and overwhelmed. 

It was strange to see Javert so different. It wasn’t off-putting—on the contrary, there was a certain sweetness to seeing Javert so unguarded, and his enthusiasm was undeterred.

Valjean kissed him again, slowly, tenderly, as he reached out to open Javert’s trousers. Button after button sprang open. Eagerly, he slipped his hand inside to draw out Javert’s cock—only to withdraw, surprised, when he found him still soft.

That was unprecedented, he thought and bit back the amused smile that threatened to break free. Still, it was nothing that couldn’t be fixed with some patience.

Once more he reached out for him, and soon Javert was moaning in appreciation as Valjean stroked him to hardness, enjoying the sensation and the time it took, drinking in every pleased sound Javert made.

There was a light sheen of perspiration on Javert’s skin, gleaming in the light of the lamp. Valjean leaned in to tenderly brush his lips to Javert’s brow, releasing Javert’s cock to run his hand slowly up the flat stomach, across the plane of his chest, feeling Javert’s heartbeat thud against his palm.

At his touch, Javert slung his arms around his shoulders, seeking out his lips once more. Javert’s tongue was hot and wet as it slid into his mouth, hungry for him in a way that never failed to arouse Valjean. He held still for it, his hand pausing its exploration as he let himself be kissed until his body was throbbing to the rhythm of Javert’s heartbeat, his own cock hard and aching for a touch.

There’d be time for that later, he thought, delighting in the ache of his need. It would be a drawn-out lovemaking today, slow and sweet, and he’d wake with the marks of Javert’s mouth all over his body, or at least the gratifying soreness of having been used until he forgot his own name.

Javert drew back to nip at his bottom lip, breathing heavily, and Valjean reached down once more, fingers trailing past the sweat-slick muscles of Javert’s stomach to search out his cock once more. He found him still hard and eager, hot like a brand against his palm. He stroked him tenderly, once, twice—only to feel Javert groan against his mouth and stiffen, the wet heat of his release suddenly spilling over Valjean’s knuckles.

With a shocked exhalation, Valjean drew back and looked down in disbelief.

There was no mistaking the sight. Javert had found release. His come dripped from Valjean’s fingers when he moved them in disbelief, wet and warm, the sensation impossible to deny.

Still stunned, he looked back up at Javert and found him half-asleep, mouth relaxing into a smile as his eyes closed.

Valjean swallowed heavily, his own cock throbbing insistently as he leaned forward. He watched Javert, studying the relaxed lines of his face, his brow smooth, his breathing slow and regular

There was no doubt about it. Javert had already drifted off to sleep.

Valjean exhaled again, disbelief warring with exhilaration. Javert had never left him unsatisfied before—not unless it was a game they were playing. This was a first.

A smile spread over his lips as he bent down, pressing his lips to Javert’s brow again. There was laughter lurking at the back of his throat, but he forced himself to remain silent. Gently, he smoothed the fingers of his clean hand down Javert’s temple.

“Sleep well, sir,” he whispered, biting his lip to rein in the laughter. Javert would never have let him live it down if that had been him.

Valjean’s own cock was still achingly hard. He could bring himself off if he wanted to; Javert wouldn’t mind, and either way he would never know. Still, there was something about the sight of Javert relaxed into sleep, the stern air of authority relaxed into something soft and vulnerable that no other man would ever be privileged to see, that made Valjean want to curl up by Javert’s side and watch him sleep.

Quietly, he rose and padded towards the washbasin, washing Javert’s release from his fingers before he gently wiped Javert down. Then he returned to his side, drawing a blanket over both of them.

His body was still aching for a touch, but Valjean didn’t mind. There was satisfaction in pressing himself against Javert’s thigh, savoring his body’s yearning, the sweet, sharp ache low in his stomach, and settling his head against Javert’s shoulder.

He breathed deeply as he wrapped his arm around Javert’s chest, comforted by the familiar scents of Javert’s skin and sweat mingled with his eau de cologne. Then he closed his eyes, arousal still making his body throb, and listened to the quiet sounds of the night and the rhythm of Javert’s breathing.