Title: 5 Times Javert Didn’t Want Help + The One Time He Asked
Work ID: 35714608
Author: Javerts_high_heeled_boots
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: 5+1 Things, Height Differences, Fluff, slight angst, Implications of suicide attempt, But only in the last chapter, javert is short, 5’2” to be exact, and Valjean is tall, 6’1” to be exact as well, Romani Javert, Modern Era, Post-Seine, Sassy Javert, Humor, stubborn javert, just really fluffy, Emotional Hurt/Comfort, Insecurity, Pets, Domestic Fluff
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert hated being pitied. So what if he was almost a foot shorter than his husband? He could manage just fine, thank you very much.

Work text:

Javert hated being pitied. So what if he was almost a foot shorter than his husband? He could manage just fine, thank you very much. He was 41, not five.“Javert? Where are you, dear?”“I’m in the kitchen!”Every Friday was date night for Javert and Valjean, rain or shine. Tonight, however, was rain. Neither of them were feeling brave enough to navigate the storm after watching their neighbor’s tree lose an arm from the wind. Instead, Jean suggested they stay home and watch a movie.Walking into the kitchen, Valjean saw a scene that wasn’t rare but still funny nonetheless: Javert standing on the countertop to reach the snack cabinet.He clearly didn’t notice Jean was in the door way. If he did, he’d have hopped down in a second and acted like nothing had happened. Instead, here he was; a grown man in pajamas trying to reach for a bag of chips that may or may not have been purposefully placed high up.“C’mon, you stupid-““Boo.”Javert shrieked as Valjean turned off the lights, clambering down from the counter as fast as he could. Once he realized that the roof wasn’t falling in, he huffed.“That wasn’t funny,” pouted Javert over his husband’s laughter.“Oh come on,” chuckled Jean, flipping the switch back on to see his husband’s red face. When he did, he laughed even harder.“You’re a jerk!”“You could have just told me you needed help,” smirked Jean, going over to the cabinet and only standing on his tiptoes to reach the chips. Behind him, he could feel Javert glaring.He hated being helped.“I’ll let you pick the movie, if that means you won’t be mad at me anymore.”“…Fine,” grunted Javert, reaching for a chip. For a split second, Valjean thought about raising them up in the air, but he wasn’t that rude. At least not at the moment.“You know,” chimed the older man, taking another chip from the bag, “I could get you a step stool or something.”Javert blinked.“I’d rather be shot.”After a moment of laughter, Valjean managed to escape the kitchen without a lecture and head to the bedroom. Wally was curled up by the pillows, purring softly. Setting down the food, Jean began to flip threw their owner movies.Oh wait. Javert never said what he wanted to watch.Assuming that the younger was downstairs cooling off, Jean turned his attention to the cat and began stroking his jet black fur. The rain pounded on the window outside, but the room felt cozy and safe as usual.All of a sudden, the lights turned out.“Boo.”