Title: Everything stays right where you left it
Work ID: 35852461
Author: magicpiano
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier, Javert/Jean Valjean, Courfeyrac/Marius Pontmercy, Cosette Fauchelevent & Javert, Cosette Fauchelevent & Marius Pontmercy & Éponine Thénardier
Additional Tags: Crossover, Alternate Universe - Magic, Pre-Slash, Javert Lives, Post-Seine, Javert Raises Cosette, Fantine Lives, I mean kind of, Ghost General Fantine, Discussion of war, Monster Hunters, Zombies, Sort Of, Swordfighting, the wip title of this fic was girls with swords, Thénardiers being shitty, Childhood Friends, Angst, Ambiguous/Open Ending, Non-Linear Narrative, Memory Loss, Minor Character Death, Temporary Character Death, you really don’t need to worry too much about the temporary death, Why are there so many French people in ancient China? Idk
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Thirteen years after the death of Jean Valjean, Cosette meets the slightly strange Fauchelevent, who might hold the key to her forgotten past.
Or the mdzs AU. Theoretically, you can read this without knowledge of that series.

Work text:


Cosette remembers very little about her life before she was adopted. She supposes that is normal, most people can’t recall much about being five, but she has always felt that she was missing more than normal. It wasn’t so much the things she remembered that was the giveaway, but the things she didn’t remember.



She doesn’t remember where the candlesticks that sit in her father’s bedroom came from, but she knows they are important, just as she knows that she is forgetting their story. She doesn’t remember why, but the first time she saw a corpse she wasn’t scared. For some reason, she almost expected it to get back up even though life had clearly left it a long time ago.



She can’t remember why her father is so sad, but he is. She knows he is.



But she remembers some things. She remembers her favorite doll wearing a bright blue dress. She remembers playing in the dirt and the sound of music. She remembers rain… and she remembers the girl.


 

 


Her father hated crowd hunts, he called them an insult to their profession. He participated in them of course, but only because he was ordered to, and he never disobeyed an order. But for all that he was known for his obedience and loyalty, he never failed to tell Cosette exactly what he really thought about things.



Javert said that a crowd hunt was proof of failure on the part of the local cultivators. The very idea that a situation got so out of hand that more than a small team of cultivators was needed to clear out the spirits was a signal of laziness, greed, incompetence or all of them combined.



Perhaps it was because Javert raised her, but Cosette thoroughly agreed. The only reason the closest cultivation sect wouldn’t send out help at the first word of a restless spirit was because they didn’t care. Perhaps the town was too poor to pay for such services, or perhaps the town was simply too far away or unimportant.



In the end the result was always the same. One bitter spirit would kill, and their victim would join them in causing issues ‘til it became a big enough problem to catch the attention of the local cultivation sect, or the whole town would be overrun and abandoned.



Sometimes, if the haunting was big enough or interesting enough it would be turned into a game. People from every sect would be invited to compete and see who could take out the most spirits. That is when a crowd hunt would begin.



Tonight’s crowd hunt was for the teens. It was assessed to not be too dangerous, the perfect opportunity for the juniors to test their skills out against each other. In other words, a way for the sects to brag about which of their children were the best.



Cosette saw some parents and teachers giving their children lectures about how well they were expected to perform. She was glad Javert didn’t feel the need to puff himself up through his daughter. He was more practical than that.



Javert pursed his lips to keep himself from grimacing at how distasteful he found the whole affair. He was only here to be a supportive father and a chaperone should the situation prove to be more dangerous than anticipated. It was a safety net Cosette was glad to have as she walked alone into the forest surrounding the lonely rural town infected with angry spirits with only her sword at her back.


 

 


The hunt had only just begun, and night hadn’t even truly set in when a voice called out to her.



“You’re Cosette right? Javert’s daughter?”



For most of her life, Cosette was known for being Javert’s daughter. As a child it gave her a thrill to discover that her father was so well known and respected. It wasn’t till she was old enough to understand what her father was famous 

for

 that the feeling began to wear off.



Even so, she was well used to being called out by their relation.



Cosette wasn’t quite yet a skilled enough cultivator to not startle at a sudden voice, but she was a quick enough actress to cover it up. “I am.”



The girl in front of Cosette wore robes dyed in bright yellows and gold, but even with only the remnants of the sunlight that hadn’t yet fallen behind the horizon, Cosette could tell the fabric was not as expensive as the wearer doubtlessly wanted you to believe. Probably from a family that thought their daughter doing well in the night hunt would make them look good.



“Have you seen Marius?” the girl asked with a frown on her face. “The two of you are friends, right?”



Cosette wasn’t sure exactly what her relationship to Marius was at the moment, but she supposed friends was as good a word for it as anything.



“We are,” Cosette admitted. “But I haven’t seen or heard from him in a few months.”



It wasn’t exactly surprising that Marius had been off the grid. Ever since he left his grandfather’s sect to follow in his late father’s footsteps as a rogue cultivator, it had been hard to keep in contact. He moved too frequently and randomly for letters. In truth, Cosette thinks that fear of cutting ties with his few friends, mainly Cosette herself, was the only real reason he stayed as long as he did. She also thinks losing friends was what finally got him to make the decision to leave, but she kept that to herself. She understands mourning well.



“I see.” It was obvious the girl was disappointed to hear this. “I thought he might show up for the hunt.”



“I would be happy to send along word that you are looking for him when next we write, Miss…?”



“Éponine,” she answered. “I’m Éponine Thénardier. And I would appreciate that.”



Cosette was momentarily distracted with a strange feeling, an odd certainty that she had heard that name before. That was easy to explain though, they were both cultivators of about the same age and social circle.



“Why are you looking for him?”



“He is a friend,” Éponine hesitated. “I think he might be in some trouble.”



Before Cosette could ask for clarification, Éponine was already moving away. “Never mind. It is probably nothing.”



“Good luck with the hunt!” Cosette shouted into the darkness where Éponine had retreated to.



Cosette found herself disappointed their conversation wasn’t longer. She wanted to figure out where she had heard that name before.


 

 


The thing about night hunting is that it happens at, surprise, night. And nighttime is dark, especially in places farther from civilization, like this forest. Cosette could wander around in the dark waiting till she sensed something, or even lay a trap for some spirits, but frankly she just didn’t see the point.



It is not that Cosette wasn’t trying, if she came across a spirit, she would of course do her job and set them free. But with the sheer amount of excitable overeager teens all looking to prove themselves, she had no doubt that by morning, if not before, all the spirits would be successfully put to rest. To Cosette, that was the important part, not her final score but that the spirits would rest, and the town would be safe. She took regular night hunts, where the goal was to actually help people, not be flashy, much more seriously.



Cosette knew her father felt the same way too, so she saw no reason to run herself ragged in circles when she could instead make herself comfortable.



Talismans were never her strong suit, but she is able to draw one up to light a fire easily enough. From there, she decided to meditate until she senses any nearby spirits or sunrise, whichever comes first.


 

 


A sound startles her out of her meditation.



Quickly she unsheathed her sword and pointed it in the direction of the sound, but it is not a spirit or a monster, it is just a regular living human man.



“My apologies,” Cosette politely sheathes her sword. “You startled me. I’m Cosette.”



“I’m, uh, Fauchelevent,” the man seemed to stumble on his own name. “No need to apologize. You have quick reflexes.”



Looking over the man, Cosette notices that he is easily her father’s age, perhaps older. Far too old to be part of this hunt for juniors, and not carrying a sword. The villagers were warned to stay in their homes tonight, but she knew from her lessons that as a cultivator you needed to be prepared for the people you are trying to protect willfully ignoring your warnings.



Escorting a civilian away from the dangerous hunt wasn’t what she planned on doing, but at least it was something that actually mattered.



“Are you lost?” Cosette asks, because the rules of her sect demanded she be polite and accusing someone of sneaking into a restricted space was rude.



“Ah,” Fauchelevent said in a slightly embarrassed voice. “Not lost, no.”



He was here on purpose then, which was basically what Cosette thought. Sometimes rogue cultivators or hobbyists who wanted to be cultivators would show up to crowd hunts in the hopes that if they did well a sect might invite them to join. It happened often enough, but most had given up long before they reached this man’s age.



“This forest is dangerous tonight,” Cosette explained. “Allow me to escort you back to the village.”



Cosette had intended it as a statement, not an offer that could be turned down, but Fauchelevent had the gall to do just that. “Thank you for the offer, but I have something I must do first.”



Her sect’s rules forbid taking advantage of your station, but she found herself about to do just that. She wasn’t about to leave a helpless villager alone in a dangerous situation. It wasn’t till Fauchelevent pushed her into the ground that she realized he wasn’t exactly helpless.



The tree she had just been standing in front of shook with extraordinary force. Looking up Cosette saw a fist punching the tree where her head had been just moments before. She realized quickly that Fauchelevent might have just saved her life, but she pushed that thought out of her mind. She had been momentarily distracted with her conversation, but now she needed to do her job and protect the civilian.



Cosette quickly jumped to her feet and pulled out her sword. Right as she was about to swing the corpse body fell to the ground, once again lifeless.



A fierce corpse only happened when the deceased died with a lot of anger and resentment, so much that even death was not able to stay their wrath. They did not simply 

stop

. They needed to be purified, by something like a spiritual weapon carried by cultivators. It didn’t make sense, but it wouldn’t do to show her confusion in front of a civilian she was sworn to protect. She would ask her father about it later.



“Well,” Cosette said, trying to sound confident. Her lessons always said the best way to keep civilians from panicking was not showing any worry yourself. “As you can see, it is quite dangerous. We should leave now.”



“It is dangerous out,” Fauchelevent agreed. He wasn’t looking at her though, he was examining the bark of the tree that now had a break in it from the corpse’s supernaturally strong fist. “Do you have a flare with you?”



“Of course,” Cosette said. They were required for all missions, but especially training missions. “But I assure you, I can get you back to town without calling for help.”



“It is not us I am concerned about,” Fauchelevent said, pointing to the tree. “Look.”



Cosette stepped forward to look at the tree and noticed something she hadn’t before, a talisman stuck to the wood.



“This is a spirit attraction talisman,” Cosette said in surprise. These talismans were powerful and useful, but also very dangerous. They attracted evil spirits to a specific location, good for keeping danger away from civilians or moving a fight to a more effective location. But attracting danger to a location was obviously quite dangerous too.



Cosette couldn’t understand why someone would leave this here, especially when everything invented by Jean Valjean was considered at least a bit taboo.



“That is not the first one,” Fauchelevent said, pulling out a stack of talismans from his pocket. “They are scattered all over this forest. I was trying to track them when you found me.”



Cosette’s first instinct was to tell Fauchelevent that carrying those on his person was dangerous, but considering this man knew what the talisman was and how to track them, he surely already knew that. It occurred to Cosette that there might be a lot more to this man than she first thought.



Then she remembered that the people didn’t know what had caused their sudden problems. There had been no grizzly deaths or strange accidents, their town had simply been overrun for seemingly no reason. Then she realized there were many spirit attraction talismans in a forest occupied only by juniors.



“This hunt is a trap.”



Cosette set off her flare.


 

 


The first time Cosette remembers meeting Éponine was at a cultivation conference.



Her father was an important enough person to be invited and expected to attend almost all of them, even if he hated them. And he did hate them.



Cosette didn’t leave home very often; she was too young to go on even supervised hunts, so she had little reason to leave home and her training. But for whatever reason, her father had decided to bring her along this time.



Mostly she stayed in the same room all the other children from important families had been dropped in. It was much louder than children were allowed to be back home, and Cosette was unsure how to talk to them. But then Marius had come up to her, all awkward smiles and fidgeting as he asked her to join him in playing with his other friend.



Cosette thought it sounded like a lot of fun, until she saw the girl Marius was leading her towards. She couldn’t explain the deep sadness that overtook her in that moment, but once she started crying, she couldn’t manage to stop herself.



Marius tried to comfort her, but she didn’t manage to calm down till her father appeared and took her away from the crowd. She had broken at least a dozen rules of conduct, but he didn’t scold her, instead he just held her close and let her cry it out.



“I don’t know why I am so sad,” Cosette sobbed into her father’s robes.



“Sometimes the heart remembers what the mind does not.”



“Father?” Javert flinched slightly at the address.



“I am sorry Cosette,” he said, petting her hair. “I never should have brought you here.”



Even then, Cosette had the feeling he was apologizing for a lot more than bringing her to this conference.



That was the last time he ever took her to a conference, and the last time he let her anywhere near anyone from the Thénardier sect.



She had nearly forgotten that day, she probably would have if it hadn’t been when she met Marius, her closest friend. Even so, it was a very long time till she saw Éponine Thénardier again.


 

 


She had intended to wait for her father to respond to her flare and explain what had happened to him. He would be able to put a stop to the hunt and evacuate the forest. Then he would find out who had done such an awful thing. Her father was nothing if not a proud distributor of justice.



But then there was a distant scream.



Now that she knew how much danger everyone here was in, she could hardly ignore that call for help. Even if she had wanted to, Fauchelevent was already charging ahead towards the sound.



What they found was Éponine dodging six fierce corpses all on her own. For a moment, Cosette was stunned and impressed. That was no small show of skill and dexterity, but she quickly recovered and jumped into the fray.



It was actually embarrassing how long it took Cosette to realize that music was playing while she and Éponine were fighting. She couldn’t help but respect Éponine who took a moment out of fighting for her life to yell, “What the fuck is wrong with you? This is not the time for music!”



The man completely ignored Éponine and kept on playing the soft melody on his flute.



When they had taken down what they thought to be the last of them, Cosette looked up to see that there were actually many more corpses standing in the distance. There were at least another dozen of them, and she honestly didn’t think that she and Éponine could take them all alone. But for some reason, those rage-filled bodies were not attacking them. They weren’t even moving.



She glanced over to the man who was still playing his quiet tune. For a moment she thought this was some type of musical cultivation that she was unaware of, but then the song ended, and like marionettes with their strings cut, the corpses all fell limp in unison.



With a response like that, it was obvious exactly what the man had done. He had been controlling the corpses. He has saved them, but…



Fauchelevant was a demonic cultivator.


 

 


In their society, demonic cultivation was the greatest sin a person could commit.



They taught you about the evils of the dark arts long before they taught you what the dark arts even were or why they were bad. By the time you were old enough to hold a conversation you knew about the evils of demonic cultivations and the evil souls that practiced it. Evil souls like Jean Valjean.



In this, Cosette was the same as all the children her age. She knew demonic cultivation was bad, and that Jean Valjean had been a very bad man and that is why the whole world banded together to kill him. She knew that his death had been the end of the war and now there was peace. She knew her father had fought in the war and was called a hero.



What she didn’t know was that her father had been the one to kill Jean Valjean.



That she had learned in her history class. A fact tossed in between some geography and an explanation about why sects needed to be careful about teaching commoners their arts. “Bishop Myriel took in Jean Valjean and taught him. Look how that turned out!”



No one else responded to the news. No child in the class even glanced at Cosette, they were all used to having the child of a famous war hero learning with them. Their sect wasn’t supposed to care about those things anyways.



When she came home from school that day, she asked her father about it. He didn’t answer right away, instead he got quiet seemingly thinking over his words. When he did speak, it wasn’t to confirm or deny the accusation.



“While normal cultivation comes from your soul, demonic cultivation comes from negative emotions like resentment.” Cosette already knew this, but she didn’t quite understand what that meant. “In order to control these emotions from the dead, you must first take them into yourself. It is only natural that taking in so much resentment would have an effect on a person’s wellbeing.”



She wondered if that meant that demonic cultivation drove him insane.



“Did you know him?”



Her father didn’t disrespect her by pretending to not know what she meant by that question. His regard for her was too high for that. For better or for worse, even as a child he treated her as an adult and was always honest.



“I did,” he admitted, his gaze locking onto the candle sticks sitting on their mantle. “A long time ago.”



Cosette didn’t ask any more questions.



Her father had murdered Jean Valjean. Even so, Cosette thought he might be the only person alive to mourn him.


 

 


Even exhausted from the fight, Éponine managed to have the energy to charge at Fauchelevant.



After what Cosette had seen, if they were actually to fight, she was positive Fauchelevant would win, but Éponine never made it to Fauchelevant. Before Éponine could swing at Fauchelevant, Javert was there stopping her hand.



“This hunt is a trap!” Cosette yelled running to Javert. Both of those things were forbidden by her sect, but this was a life-or-death situation. “There are—”



“If this hunt is a trap,” Éponine said, taking in this new information, “it is obvious who set it.”



It wasn’t true, Cosette knew that. Fauchelevant never would have told her about the talismans, let alone take them down and save Cosette and Éponine’s lives, if he had been the one to set them out. She also knew that no one would ever believe the word of a demonic cultivator.



Her father might believe her though.



“It is not true father!” Cosette pleaded. “This man saved my life!”



Javert wasn’t looking at her though. His eyes had meet Fauchelevant’s and never left them.



Fauchelevant looked bashful, but mostly he looked resigned. Cosette knew her father had a reputation of hating demonic cultivators, and Cosette was the only person who knew that wasn’t true. At least, not 

exactly

 true. Fauchelevant probably thought Javert was going to kill him as he had Jean Valjean. But Cosette knew better, her father was too honorable to harm someone for doing what was right, even if their methods were not something he agreed with.



“You should run before someone finds you,” Javert finally said, releasing Fauchelevant from his gaze. “I will clear the juniors from the forest.”



Fauchelevant looked shocked at Javert’s dismissal. His whole face changed, and his jaw dropped. He wasn’t the only one surprised that Javert was letting a demonic cultivator go.



“But he—” Éponine snarled.



“Just saved your life,” Javert interrupted. “You two children need to leave the area now.”



As displeased as she was, Éponine didn’t dare disobey a direct order from someone like Javert.


 

 


After the hunt Javert sent her home. He was going to investigate what had happened to the hunt and he was unsure when he would be back home. To some degree she was upset at being sent home like all the other juniors even though she had helped in the fight, but she knew this investigation was far outside of her skill level.



She watched her father leave town from the window of her room at the local inn and tried to figure out why he was taking the demonic cultivator Fauchelevant with him. She supposed that Fauchelevant probably knew a lot about the situation, he was the one who brought it to their attention after all, but even so, her father was never good with strangers, especially when he had to work with them. Few people could match him in determination to his job.



Those thoughts were stopped though when she saw Éponine in the street below, talking to Marius.



Marius who had been missing for months and hadn’t sent any letters. Marius who was in mourning for a friend and hadn’t come to her for help. Marius, her best friend, that she wasn’t going to let disappear again.



For perhaps the first time in her life Cosette disobeyed an order from her father. She didn’t go home, instead she followed Marius and Éponine out of town.


 

 


When Enjolras descended from the mountain of the immortal, he quickly became the talk of the cultivation world. Very few people were accepted as students of the immortal, and fewer still left after being taken in, but all who had were exceptionally skilled.



Every sect wanted him to join them, but he turned down all of their offers of money, power or glory. He quickly gained a reputation for truly caring about the people and never taking any payment for his services. He was skilled and kind and passionate, and most damning of all, the people loved him, perhaps even more so than their leaders. That was when the cultivation world’s opinions of him started to shift.



His generosity made their greed look bad.



When he started gathering other rouge cultivators to join him, sect leaders grew scared that he was starting his own sect. When members of other sects deserted to join Enjolras’ cause there were uproars behind closed doors. Cosette was never privy to those of course but her father complained about them enough.



“If they are so upset about Enjolras doing their jobs better than them, perhaps they should work harder,” Javert complained. There were few things he hated more than hypocrites and laziness, both things leaders had in spades.



“Do you think he is doing the right thing?” Cosette asked.



“Yes. A cultivator’s job is to help people. We have lost sight of that.” Javert was silent for a moment, hesitating on his words. “There was a time I would have thought he was wrong to challenge society like this. There was a time when I would have agreed to hunt him down.”



It was far more than Javert usually said on any subject, and more praise than she had ever heard him give someone that wasn’t her.



Looking her straight in the eye Javert said, “learn from my mistakes Cosette. Do what is right, even if it is against the rules.”


 

 


“I’m coming with you.”



“Cosette,” Marius was clearly surprised to see her.



“You don’t know where we are going,” Éponine said.



“I know that Marius has been missing and after everything that happened, I am not letting him disappear again.” Cosette glanced over to Éponine, who earlier that day also hadn’t heard anything from Marius for months. “I am guessing you are here for the same reason.”



“I am sorry Cosette,” Marius at least looked a bit ashamed. “I didn’t mean to disappear, I just… I needed to find out what happened.”



Cosette understood that she just wished he had thought to let her help. “Three people will work a lot faster than one.”



When Marius smiled at her, she knew he wouldn’t try to send her away again. Not that she ever would have let him try it.


 

 


When Marius had mentioned, shyly with a darkening blush on his cheeks that he had made a new friend, Cosette was very happy for him. Courfeyrac sounded like a nice guy, and a perfect contrast to Marius. Then she learned that he was one of the Amis, and Cosette got a bit more concerned.



She supported their ideas, but she also knew from her father how many powerful people didn’t like the group of rogue cultivators. She would never be sure if her warning was what stopped Marius from joining them, but she would always be grateful that when the massacre happened Marius wasn’t there for it. Even if many of his new friends were.



After many months of quiet destructive mourning Marius decided he was going to be a rogue cultivator like his late friends and father. Cosette would have supported the decision if he didn’t cut everyone who cared about him out of his life in the process.



But now she knew the real reason Marius had left his sect. He was looking for the dead bodies of his friends. No report of the incident included the fact that the bodies were apparently 

missing

, which Cosette admitted was very suspicious.



“I found this at the Musain,” Marius said, handing Cosette a very familiar talisman.



“A spirit attraction talisman,” Éponine thought aloud. “It makes sense, we already knew they were killed by a demonic cultivator.”



Marius tensed momentarily, either at the reminder of his friends’ deaths or because of Éponine’s tone that was filled with hate towards demonic cultivators.



Marius swallowed tensely and continued, “I have been using a tracking spell to find the source.”



“That is what led you to our crowd hunt, right?” Cosette asked, putting the pieces together. If the person responsible for the deaths of the Amis was the same person responsible for leaving a trap for juniors, then… Well, Cosette wasn’t sure what it meant, but she knew it wasn’t good.



Marius nodded.



“Well, let's see where it leads then.”


 

 


Where it led was seemingly the middle of nowhere. Cosette had literally been to ghost towns livelier than this small, abandoned village. Of course, cultivators were only called out to deal with a ghost when they were causing problems, so maybe that was a bad example.



“There is nothing much here,” Marius stated the obvious.



“I suppose an abandoned town is a good hiding place,” Cosette said because it seemed like the most apparent explanation.



“They are not nearly as good hideaways as you think,” Éponine countered. “Too obvious.”



Cosette believed her, but she didn’t ask how Éponine knew that. Even so they would have to search the town for clues because they had been following Marius’ tracking charm for two weeks now with nothing to show for it.



“Maybe one of these empty houses has a real bed,” Cosette said. They had been sleeping in the dirt and grass a lot more often than she was used to. Even when traveling for work, her sect was usually paid enough to afford an inn. She knew she was spoiled in this regard, but Marius was too. Only Éponine seemed used to camping out night after night.



“Don’t get your hopes up,” Éponine said, taking the lead into the village.


 

 


It occurred to her only when they were running for their lives that she really should have written a letter to her father.



She knew his investigation was going to take a while, he has always been thorough, so she figured she could be back home before he even noticed she hadn’t gone home like she was supposed to. Her sect would wonder where she was, but they would assume she was with her father investigating. Her disobedience would come apart the moment they met again, lying was forbidden after all, and she did take the rules seriously. At least most of the time.



But she had been scared that if her father found out what she was doing he would try to stop her. Now that she realized how clearly outmatched they were, she began to think that maybe he would have been correct.



The demonic cultivator was in this town, along with a small army’s worth of corpses that were now chasing them. They were fools to walk directly into their territory.



Éponine half carried Marius’ injured body along with her while Cosette tried to fight off as many as she could.



“Quick! In here!” Éponine yelled as she pulled Marius into a small building.



Cosette wasn’t sure any structure in this town was really safe, but anything was better than standing in the open waiting to be attacked. She ran in and pushed her back against the door.



“We need something to barricade the door!”



Éponine and Marius were quick to try and move an empty dresser against the door, even if Marius was weak and limping while he did it. It wasn’t much and it wouldn’t hold long if they were found, but for the moment, it was some facsimile of safety.



Then, because nothing was ever simple, Marius passed out.


 

 


Cosette wasn’t a medic; she knew very little of the healing arts and she had only taken the classes required of her. She has always preferred her sword and music, but now she regretted not studying it more.



“Do you know what you are doing?” Cosette asked anxiously as Éponine tried to bandage Marius’ side.



“Not really,” Éponine admitted. Cosette appreciated the honesty, but it wasn’t very comforting. “Do you know what you are doing?”



Cosette looked down at the medicine in her field bag and tried to remember what each one was for. “Not really.”



Éponine hummed but didn’t say anything else.


 

 


“My father is going to have me copy our sect rules everyday for the next two years for this,” Cosette said, ignoring the fact that would only happen if she lived through this.



“Your father,” Éponine huffed. “The guy who defended a demonic cultivator a few days ago.”



Cosette knew there must be a reason Éponine had been giving her the cold shoulder even though she was also helping Marius on his quest. She should have known it was this.



“You really hate Fauchelevant a lot for having only known him for a few minutes,” Cosette observed.



“What else is there to know?” Éponine asked rhetorically. “He’s a demonic cultivator.”



Cosette knew many people felt that way, but she couldn’t allow such quick judgements against someone who saved her life. “Yes, but—”



“There is really nothing else to say,” Éponine said curtly. Perhaps it would have been smarter to stop now, but there was something about Fauchelevant. Something that she couldn’t quite grasp, something she couldn’t quite remember. Strangely enough, she felt the same way about Éponine.



“He saved us.”



“Saved us from 

another

 demonic cultivator,” Éponine countered. “If people didn’t go around using the dark arts, we wouldn’t be in this situation in the first place.”



Cosette couldn’t really fight that logic, but she didn’t like it much. It was true a demonic cultivator had killed the Amis, set a trap at the crowd hunt, injured Marius and was now trying to kill them all. Even so, that man wasn’t Fauchelevant. Should he really be blamed for someone else’s actions?



“Why do you hate demonic cultivators so much?”



“You have read history books,” Éponine said, turning to look at her like she had gone crazy. “Your father is the Javert, the killer of Jean Valjean himself! Surely you know the answer to that question.”



It was true that Cosette knew why people hated Jean Valjean, she knew why their society said his name only in fear and anger. But it was also true that Jean Valjean had been her father’s friend once many years ago. The history books never mentioned that part. She wondered how much else got left out.



“You are about the same age as me,” Cosette said. It had been thirteen years since the death of Jean Valjean, how could the ghost of his memory cling so deeply in someone so young? “It is not like you could have fought in the war or against Jean Valjean. You would have been a little kid when he died.”



“You don’t have to be an adult to have lost things to Jean Valjean.”



She said it with a cold empty voice and Cosette immediately winced. Of course, Éponine was right, how many people had died in the war? It was not inconceivable for someone their age to have lost a parent or relative to it.



“I’m sorry, I didn’t think—”



“It's fine,” Éponine brushed her off. “After the war my family was put in charge of a lot of the displaced refugees and prisoners of war. The settlement was kind of shitty, but no one in power really cared about that and my parents kept most of the money that was supposed to go into feeding and sheltering those people and put it into their own pockets.”



Cosette had heard a bit about this, it wasn’t something talked about much. Éponine was right, no one really cared about those people. Her father had though, he had been the only person she had ever heard speak up about it, but it was old news now.



“Yeah, I know, my parents are real pieces of work,” Éponine said, expecting judgment, but Cosette had none to give.



“But as a kid, that settlement was my favorite place to play because my best friend lived there.” Éponine had a faraway look in her eye, as if she wasn’t really looking at Cosette anymore. “Then one day… Jean Valjean came. I am sure you know what happened then.”



Sadly, Cosette did know what happened then. All her textbooks talked about how he came to villages and took all the people living there. They talked about his army of corpses, how he called himself a mayor even when all his people were dead. He even managed to bring consciousness to one of his corpses, a woman with all the supernatural strength of the dead and the intelligence of a living human. Cosette knew that after his death, all of the corpses were finally put down.



“He took my best friend from me,” Éponine whispered. Even though Éponine must have been so young when that happened, it is clear how much it affected her. “That incident was the beginning of my family’s downfall too. My parents were blamed for not putting up enough guards, for not stopping him. They lost their reputation and never managed to build it back up again.”



Cosette had known that too, her father was the man who almost single handedly destroyed the reputation of the Thénardier sect. Cosette wondered if Éponine blamed her for that.



Noticing where Cosette’s mind had gone, Éponine said. “I don’t blame you or your father. They should have put some actual protections up, but they didn’t. I don’t think I will ever forgive them for that. I will certainly never forgive Jean Valjean.”



“Jean Valjean is dead.” An obvious fact, but sometimes it helped to remember that the thing that caused you pain was gone.



“Yeah, he is,” Éponine closed her eyes and Cosette thought she might have been trying to hold back tears. “If I had my way, so would everyone who follows his path.”



Cosette could understand now where Éponine’s hatred came from even if she did think that blaming Fauchelevant for it was unfair.



“What was her name?”



“Euphrasie.”



Cosette didn’t know why, but that name gave her that same feeling again. The same mysterious feeling she got around Éponine and Fauchelevant. Something near but out of your reach.



“Thank you for trusting me with all this,” Cosette placed a gentle hand on Éponine’s shoulder.



“There is no point to secrets when we are about to die anyways.”



“We are not going to die,” Cosette said even though she wasn’t sure she believed it. She glanced over at Marius who was injured and might not live even if they did somehow make it out of this alive.



“I don’t need comforting lies. I am fine with it.” For her part, Éponine really did look almost content. Cosette didn’t really buy it though. Perhaps sensing her skepticism, Éponine continued, “I mean I am not excited about it but… well I always figured this was how I would go out.”



“In a town populated by corpses?”



“At the hands of a crazy demonic cultivator,” Éponine laughed. “I decided a long time ago that I would make it my life’s goal to hunt them all down, so it only stood to reason… The unconscious Marius is a surprise though.”



“And me?” Cosette couldn’t help but ask.



“You’re a surprise too,” Éponine said with a small smile.



Cosette smiled back at her. At least they wouldn’t be dying alone.


 

 


It had occurred to Cosette abstractly that the person they were following and the person her father was investigating were one and the same. Even so, she didn’t allow herself to hope for a miracle. She could have cried from relief when she saw him and Fauchelevant through the dirty window.



She and Éponine moved the dresser away from the door to allow them into their makeshift hideaway. As soon as he stepped inside Javert’s eyes searched them looking for injury which he found in Marius, who had just started to stir because of all the noise they were making. Fauchelevant went to check on Marius and Javert gave her his full attention again.



“What are you doing here Cosette?”



“Uh,” she didn’t have a great explanation for that. “We are investigating?” She cursed the way her statement came off as a question.



“I told you to go home,” Javert said. It was hard for her to brace herself for the disappointment in his tone. “What happened at the crowd hunt was dangerous.”



“We aren’t here because of that,” Éponine said, coming to Cosette’s rescue. “We are looking for Marius’s friends’ bodies.”



“It is not their fault,” Marius’s voice was slightly off, wrung from the fever that had come over him. “This was my idea. I just wanted to give them a proper burial…”



“A noble goal,” Fauchelevant said, clearly trying to be a mediator.



“Cosette is old enough to make her own decisions, as is Éponine,” Javert said. He had always treated her like an adult, failing to meet those expectations stung. “Why didn’t you use your flare?”



“I used it at the crowd hunt,” Cosette explained. It went unsaid that she hadn’t restocked because she hadn’t been home at all since then.



“He lost quite a bit of blood,” Fauchelevant said after he finished checking Marius’ injury. He turned to Cosette and Éponine and gave a reassuring smile. “He will be fine if we can get him to a real doctor soon.”



“That will be difficult,” Javert said with a grimace. “They probably only made it this far because we were distracting Montparnasse.”



“Montparnasse?” Éponine asked. Montparnasse was a well-known and extremely dangerous demonic cultivator. He was also, supposedly, dead. “He is behind this?”



Fauchelevant gave an uncharacteristically dark laugh. “Apparently demonic cultivators have a habit of beating death.”



Cosette didn’t have time to ask what he meant by that because Fauchelevant had turned to her father to have some type of mental conversation. It was shocking to witness; her father had never been that close to anyone. To be so comfortable in the presence of someone he had only known for a little over a week was abnormal for him.



“We will distract Montparnasse while you three kids escape,” Fauchelevant said.



It was a more than reasonable plan, Cosette knew, but even so, it didn’t feel right to leave them in a dangerous situation. “But father—”



Fauchelevant’s eyes snap to her. Perhaps he didn’t know who she was to Javert? But quickly his emotions shifted from surprise into something serious again. The look in his eyes reminded her that he was a very dangerous man. They both were.



“Your father will be fine,” Fauchelevant promised. “I have already called in some reinforcement of my own.”



Javert nodded and placed his hand on her shoulder comfortingly. “Go to the nearest town and send word back home for help.”


 

 


Javert and Fauchelevant had given them an opening to escape by distracting the corpses. Hopefully Montparnasse would be too busy with the adults to send anything after the three of them. The only issue was that Cosette was a bit lost. When they had been running for their lives paying attention to the layout of the streets wasn’t that important. Now when they needed to escape and get out of town as quickly as possible, she was drawing a blank on which way to go.



It seemed neither Éponine nor Marius had been paying much more attention than she had because they were unsure too. She had decided to simply choose a direction and run, hoping for the best.



She had picked the wrong road though, because as soon as she turned a corner she saw there were a dozen corpses further down it. She was about to turn and run in the other direction when one of the corpses caught her eye.



It was a woman, and for some reason it was fighting off all the other corpses. It occurred to her at that moment that perhaps this was what Fauchelevant meant by reinforcements. She supposed it made sense, he was a demonic cultivator capable of controlling corpses too. Why not fight fire with fire? But the way this corpse moved was different somehow. It wasn’t the same jerky spasms of limbs that fierce corpses normally had. This woman was fluid and graceful. She moved like she was 

alive

.



But even that wasn’t quite what made Cosette’s breath catch. No, somehow, Cosette knew this woman. She was sure of it in the same unexplainable way she knew there was more to Fauchelevant than meets the eye.



Éponine was grabbing at her arm, tugging her, trying to get her to run, but Cosette just couldn’t take her eyes off of the fighting woman.



The corpse turned and looked at her, opened her dead mouth and said urgently, “Euphrasie, run!”



It was only then that the spell was broken, and Cosette turned to run out of town as fast as possible.


 

 


They made it to a nearby town that had a doctor for Marius. Cosette sent a letter to her sect about a sighting of Montparnasse and requesting aid. Éponine didn’t bother, “Even if my parents had aid to give, they wouldn’t.” Cosette elected not to ask.



It was a tense few hours, but Marius was a cultivator and his spiritual energy healed him much faster than a civilian. Once he had some medicine, water, rest, and clean bandages he was doing remarkably better, at least as far as his physical health was concerned. Mentally, he reminded Cosette of right after the massacre at the Musain.



He didn’t have to say anything for Cosette to know that he felt like he had failed his friends in his responsibility to lay them to rest properly. He was also clearly blaming himself for Éponine and Cosette nearly dying. Cosette didn’t know what to do about it though besides being there for him.



Marius confessed to them quietly between broken sobs after a nightmare that he had let the corpse attack him. He said he knew he could have taken his opponent, but he couldn’t bring himself to swing his sword through Courfeyrac.



Cosette didn’t know what to say except that it wasn’t Marius’ fault and the thing that attacked him wasn’t really his friend, not anymore.



Éponine cursed all demonic cultivators and their cruel tricks.



They waited for news.


 

 


News came in the form of a dead woman knocking on the door of their room at the small local inn.



With her long sleeve and veil, you couldn’t tell she was dead unless you looked at her closely. Even with the veil Cosette immediately recognized her as the woman who had protected them as they were escaping two days ago. She had a quiet demeanor one would never expect from the undead.



“Would you like some tea?” Cosette offered. She was raised polite but remembered too late that the dead do not drink.



The woman didn’t seem offended at the offer, just quietly declining.



“You are no longer in danger,” the woman said as she sat down at the low table in their room. “Montparnasse is dead - Javert and, uh, Fauchelevant took care of it.”



“Are they okay?” Cosette couldn’t hide how worried she had been over her father, even though she knew how strong he was. Fauchelevant too was important to her for reasons she couldn’t explain, reasons that went beyond feeling a debt to someone who had saved her life three times now. Fauchelevant was a mystery, and Cosette felt like until she solved it, she would never truly understand herself. “Why didn’t they come with you?”



“They are both unharmed,” the woman reached out her hand to comfort Cosette but seemed to second guess herself and hesitate at the last moment, simply leaving her hand hovering awkwardly in the air for a moment before lowering it again. Cosette didn’t know how to say that she wanted the woman to touch her. “They both had some business to take care of back at the village, but they will be here soon.”



“What business could they have there after Montparnasse was killed?” Éponine narrowed her eyes at the woman in a distrustful manner.



Cosette could understand why she was skeptical of this woman’s words, she was dead after all, and the only person to have ever been able to make a fierce corpse conscious was Jean Valjean, so her existence just didn’t make sense. She was very suspicious, but even so, Cosette knew they could trust her.



“They are trying to help the fierce corpse left in the village,” the woman answered hesitantly.



This seemed to catch Marius’s attention for the first time in the conversation. “My friends’ bodies, are they—?”



The woman seemed to hesitate before answering and the tension in the room grew. “Your friends are fine, by which I mean, they are like me.”



“What do you mean?” Marius’ words were stiff.



“I am sorry, I know this must be hard to hear,” the woman said gently. “Fauchelevant is trying to help them adjust to being dead. They seem to be of the opinion that the abandoned village is a good place to settle down for now.”



Marius stood up on shaking feet. “I need to go there.”



“Marius!” Cosette said at the same time Éponine yelled at him to, “sit his ass back down.”



“No,” he said forcefully. “Last time I didn’t go they all—”



His body seemed to crumple under the weight of his own words, it was only Éponine holding him that kept him from falling to the floor.



“I have to go,” he said in such a heartbroken tone even Éponine couldn’t find it in herself to deny him. They had come all this way to help him get closure after all. What were friends for if not walking into a city of probably dangerous corpses a second time?


 

 


Somehow, the village of corpses actually seemed alright now.



It was obvious Éponine thought the whole thing a trap, and Cosette couldn’t even really blame her for that, but somehow, it wasn’t. The dead were milling about talking to each other in the street. They weren’t alive but in Cosette’ mind they could hardly really be called dead anymore either. Marius’s friends, the Amis, were there, but others were too, people unrelated to the situation or victims from other battles.



When Marius had seen Courfeyrac, he had collapsed into the man’s embrace. Cosette looked forward to a chance to meet him but figured she should give them all some alone time for now.



Cosette felt the weight of a gaze on her. When she turned there was the woman from before, the dead woman who had saved them and brought them back here. She walked over to join her.



“I am sorry,” Cosette said. “I never got your name or thanked you properly.”



“You don’t need to thank me,” the woman said. “But my name is Fantine.”



It looked like there was more Fantine wanted to say, but in the end, they simply stood together in a comfortable silence. They stood off to the side and watched as the dead attempted to put themselves together into something resembling a society.


 

 


“Father?” Cosette asked hesitantly, interrupting a conversation between Javert and Fauchelevant.



“Cosette!” Fauchelevant said happily. “How is your friend?”



“Marius is much better now,” she said. This was true, but it wouldn’t stay true for long if something happened to this place. “But what do we do now? I sent word home asking for help, when they see this place…”



Their society saw demonic cultivation as a perversion of the natural order of the world. A city of corpses would never be allowed to remain in peace.



“You will be going home,” Javert said sternly.



She knew she had almost died, and he had good reason to send her away, but it felt wrong just to leave after everything that happened. “But—”



“You don’t need to worry Cosette,” Fauchelevant said comfortingly. “I will set up a barrier to hide this place from view for now.”



She could only hope that would be enough. “And you two?”



“There is still one more mystery we must solve,” Javert grimaced. At least it was clear he didn’t like the mystery any more than she did. He placed a hand on her head and gave her a small smile. “You did well.”



Cosette let herself feel proud. Her father did not give out idle praise. 


 

 


Cosette ran to catch up to Éponine who was making her way out of town quietly. “Are you leaving?”



“Yes,” Éponine said curtly.



“Are you okay?” Cosette asked. It would make sense for Éponine to be upset, it had been a hard, strange few days.



“It would seem I was wrong about some things,” Éponine admitted quietly.



“What?”



“I think, maybe, Fauchelevant isn’t so bad after all,” Éponine said. Cosette was impressed that Éponine, who hated demonic cultivators so much, was able to say that.



“What made you change your mind about him?”



Éponine was silent for a moment before she said, “my brother.”



It shouldn’t be surprising that a girl Cosette barely knew had a brother, but for some reason it felt like it was something she should have known. From Éponine’s reaction, there was a lot more to that story too.



“I am being sent home,” Cosette said. “Let’s walk together, at least for a little while.”



Cosette didn’t want to admit it, but she didn’t want to leave Éponine yet. She didn’t know why but she felt like she was on the cusp of something, a mystery that tied them all together.



“It is a long walk,” Éponine said, her gentle way of offering Cosette an out.



“Let’s hope it doesn’t rain.”
