Title: The Misérable(s) Month
Work ID: 36104503
Author: Fluxit_Aqua_et_Sanguine
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy
Additional Tags: Ficlet Collection, Vignettes, Fluff, Angst, Implied/Referenced Suicide, Music, Improbability, Alternate Universe - Canon Divergence, Cheese, I Don't Even Know
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 18/18

Summary:
A series of ficlets/vignettes from this year's Misérables Month challenge in October! 
Inside you will find unexplained Valvert, some angst, general corniness and cheese, and a few other states of emotion and being.

Work text:

There were no depths of perversity to which Jean Valjean was unwilling to sink.The man proved it time and time again: He committed crime. He attempted to escape his punishment. He donned the guise of a gentleman, and, in it, he had executed some of the most egregious flouting of justice merely to achieve kindness. And he had continued on in that theme, even after he was revealed as the criminal he was; even until he was face-to-face with his nemesis in a back alley just behind the blaze of war.Javert knew these things. And yet, it was still surprising when—


“Four?”


“Yes.”“You cannot be serious.”“I am.”“Tell me again.”Valjean gave his most benign, most infuriating smile. “Four.” He even held up his fingers. Javert’s twitched on the delicate spoon in his hand, which hovered over a steaming porcelain cup.“Four sugars.”“Yes.”“I refuse.”Valjean sighed. “Fine. Then let me do it.”“No. I shall not let you ruin the finer flavors in it.”

“The ‘finer flavors?’ In coffee?”

“Yes, flavors you appear to have evaded entirely in drinking nothing but sugar. It would serve you right to have lost every tooth in your head.”“Well. I’m lucky, I suppose.”“We agree on something, then, Valjean.”

Jean leaned back in his chair. Javert put his spoon down and folded his hands. Before him sat two cups of coffee and the sugar dish and Jean Valjean, who smiled still. After half a minute or so of impassive silence, Valjean lifted his hand and motioned for his coffee cup. Another moment of pause and Javert was pushing it across the table to him.

Valjean reached for the sugar and the spoon. Javert didn’t stop him.“I hope you’re content with your swill,” Javert murmured, and took a sip of his own coffee, and allowed the warm, dark earthiness to pervade his senses. He closed his eyes, only briefly—And before he could open them again, an impossibly sweet kiss was pressed against his lips.

It shone before him.

Out of the darkness of the night, it had shone: A pillar, a pillar of fire, reaching up into the sky; pouring smoke into the black sky of the night.

He walked towards it. Then he ran. Then he was dropping his belongings and staring up at the monstrous tower of flame. It scorched his face even from a distance.

Voices shouted around him, whirling like the tongues of fire; amid them, there was something else, something far away, something high and pleading.

He did not think. He moved.

He ran again. He used his shoulder to make his way through the charred door. He gazed around. He ran through the flames. They touched his skin, and he did not burn, as Moses in the desert. He, too, heard the voice of God: He heard it, urging him on; tuning his ears to the screams—

He found them huddled in a corner, cowering from the blaze: Children. Easily carried; one thrown across his shoulder, and the other carried in his arms. They were as nothing to his strength.

He ran again. Outside, in the cold of the night, he at last felt again. His lungs gasped, wheezing for clean air; his arms trembled, and his hair was singed around the edges. He scarcely noticed the hands touching him on the back, the voices singing to his praise; the epaulettes on the shoulders of the man who embraced him and thanked him again and again.

He only noticed when he was free.

When the people dispersed, when all was done, he was entirely free. No-one asked for his name; no-one asked for his passport. People smiled. They led him to an inn. He found lodgings and he slept, and, the following day, his name—the name he gave them, the first name that came to mind, Madeleine—was still favored all across the town.

The favor remained as long as the name.

He stared into flames again after several years.

The flames in his hearth. The flames that ate away at yellow paper; the flames that consumed the name that would destroy him.

He stared. He remembered the good that had brought him to this home, to this hearth; to these flames.

He glanced upwards. Silver streaked across his vision, and he knew—he knew that fire would not free him a second time.

He’d simply... asked one day.

Never before had Cosette’s father shown the least bit of enthusiasm for music. He was proud when she played, yes—he’d said so numerous times—but he never had anything to say about the pieces she chose, never claimed any favorites; never wanted to go to a performance, even a private one. Cosette figured that her father was one of those people that simply didn’t have a care for the arts and had long left it at that.

But it seemed she was wrong: One day, he came to her and told her, with a sudden zeal, how much he’d always loved her playing and that he now sought to learn the instrument himself.

Of course, Cosette was delighted. Never, since she’d grown up a bit, had she and her papa shared as much as they had when she’d been a child. She’d been kept away at the convent, and, as the years went on, they had less and less to converse about. The day he asked, Cosette smiled and took his hand and led him cheerfully to the piano, sitting him on the bench beside her.

It seemed that he wanted to play a particular tune, one he said he’d heard a violin playing out in the streets: He hummed it, and Cosette recognized it at once as a theme from the first movement of ‘Spring’ from Vivaldi’s Four Seasons. A fanciful choice, indeed; spritely and joyful and a little tricky.

He wasn’t as patient as she’d anticipated. Teaching him brought forth a different side, a tense, frustrated one that she’d never known before. She’d known him to be touched by anxiety before, certainly, but... this was different. It was as if he were desperate to learn right away, as if he had something to learn for. But when Cosette questioned him, he admitted to nothing; he averred that he simply wanted to understand how the thing worked and to do something agreeable with his daughter.

Cosette tried to believe. But it was difficult. It was especially so when, after a few days’ practice, she found him nearly cursing over missed keys and rhythms. Belief gave way to thought, to the question of what ever he could be learning for.

She couldn’t say. She didn’t think she’d ever find out. He began to improve, and the curses and the apologies dwindled. Cosette stopped dwelling, and, soon, her papa was playing the tune he’d chosen fairly well, well enough that Cosette once woke to the sound of it ringing through the house in the night, sounding perfectly staccato and vibrant upon impossibly high strings.

One day, he asked if she could go out for the afternoon. He claimed a need for bread and a particular kind of cheese, a need Cosette didn’t know they’d had; suddenly he was pressing cold coins into her hand and shepherding her out the door.

“Don’t mind how long it takes,” he told her smilingly. “I’ll be here all afternoon.”

With a kiss, they parted, quickly enough that Cosette had forgotten her bonnet inside. She didn’t go back for it. Deciding it was best to humor this whim of her father’s—he wasn’t usually one for whims, after all, except in the last few weeks—she went off to the market.

The bread, of course, was easy, and the cheese surprisingly so: What she’d expected might take her an hour or more to find just touched a quarter. She arrived back home within half an hour of her departure, and was about to call out to her father... and then she heard the piano playing.

It wasn’t perfect—it was barely in rhythm—but it was playing: That tune that he’d wanted to know, playing once, then a second time.

Cosette laughed under her breath. Again, she thought to call out, but was stopped by the sound of voices. Low voices, her father’s, and... another’s. The door was open just a bit; when she looked inside, she saw no more than silhouettes: Her father at the piano, and a tall man standing just behind him.

“Beautiful,” the man said emphatically, and Cosette withdrew, a light flush painting her cheeks.

He had never considered how vast nothing could be.

It was nothing that kept him there. It was nothing that pervaded him; nothing that filled the space in his lungs and between his muscles and made him remain perfectly motionless, gazing up into the face of the house into which his savior had disappeared.

The universe had expanded around him. He could have walked across Paris, across the world, and still be nowhere; he could remain at this spot, staring, forever locked in this place, and the awesome emptiness would remain the same.

At length, he dragged his feet free. He took stiff steps, down to a certain bridge over the roughest portion of the Seine.

Nothing, emptiness, blackness—it was everywhere. Thoughts and morals broken, aspirations destroyed; it was absolutely everywhere, within and without, as much above as below. Nothing constituted everything; nothing lay before. The only realities in his present existence were steps, one foot just before the other; breaths as they were seized and escaped from within.

There was but one certainty left.

The height of the bridge showed it to him; the river drove its way into it. There remained something, one thing that he knew must still exist in the vast emptiness of the world.

He’d never fallen from the singular track of his life. He had never, once, moved from it—and he had never seen its end before.

Now, at last, he saw it. It hung suspended in the air just off the edge of the bridge.

He leaned over the edge. He froze. He thought. And he knew.

Javert had never been particularly apt at caring for himself. Whenever he became ill, he simply moved on with his existence. He had never been so ill that he couldn’t work; he had never visited a doctor or done anything to help himself along to wellness other than following the demands of the body: Sleeping, eating and drinking as much as was required outside the hours of his work; occasionally pressing a cool damp cloth against his forehead when matters were truly dire.

This meant that, when he was tasked with caring for Jean Valjean, he had no idea what was to be done.

Very shortly after his unfortunate plunge into the Seine, Valjean had begun to feel unwell. By the time his daughter and that young lawyer had gone off to be married some little time later, he was abed; by the time they were leaving for their honeymoon, the man was suffering grievously.

Valjean, of course, had told the pair that he had a friend who would look after him. And he did, he supposed, if Javert could call himself ‘friend;’ more than that, Javert was compelled to assist. He couldn’t do otherwise, given the probable cause and source of Valjean’s illness. He had to do whatever he could to bring his health back to him and purge him from whatever it was he’d caught from the water.

He and Valjean had corresponded by note for about a day prior to his arrival. Valjean confessed of a fever and a cough, tiredness and thirst; a headache and occasional pain in the stomach.

When Javert arrived at the house the following day, he carried in his arms several glass bottles, and carried on his face an especially grim expression. He was allowed in by the housekeeper and shortly found Valjean in bed, dozing against his pillows. His forehead appeared to be a little sweaty. Javert’s frown deepened. He began placing the serums on the bedside table, and was just about finished arranging them when Valjean stirred.

“Oh... Javert,” he said. His voice was deep and hoarse. “Thank you for coming... but... what are...?”

“I’ve been looking for ways to assist you, Valjean, as you and your family seem to have been unwilling to do it,” Javert grumbled, and stood back, looking at the collection of variously-colored glass containers with his brows knit and his entire face cast over with concern. “You’ve been coughing?”

“Yes,” Valjean said slowly. His brow knit, too. Javert ignored it and selected one of the containers.

“Corbin said that cock ale was the way... but Lyon suggested a purgative....” He took up another bottle and examined it closely. Valjean sat up straighter; his eyebrows had shot up towards his hairline instead.

“Javert—I don’t—”

“And there’s laudanum, of course,” he murmured, and took up the darkest of the bottles and a spoon. “But if it’s consumption, we can’t afford to wait....”

“Consumption? Javert—whom have you asked about this?”

“Medical men,” Javert said simply, uncorked a bottle, and took an experimental sniff. His face screwed up in distaste and he set the thing down again. “I spoke with several. Your condition may be very serious, Valjean, and you’ve really got to—”

“Javert... I’m quite sure that it’s just a touch of the grippe,” Valjean said, and couldn’t help but chuckling slightly through the pain in his head and the cough that wracked its way through his frame a moment later. When he was finished—and Javert was looking at him sternly—he spoke again. “You needn’t worry so. I’m starting to feel better, as it happens. These things aren’t necessary... I just need some water and rest. Toussaint will get me food. I just wanted some company. That’s all.”

He reached out his hand, and looked meaningfully up at Javert. After several moments of staring between the man’s face and his hand, Javert took it.

“Well... all right,” he said, and sat slowly in the straight-backed chair by the bedside. “But... we have the medicines if you need anything... if you should get any worse....”

“It’ll be fine,” Valjean assured him, with that gentle warmth in his voice that only he could achieve.

And he was. Indeed, only a couple of days later, Valjean was much better, well enough that he could start walking around the house more readily and doing things for himself again. It was at that time that Javert fell ill, with much the same symptoms as Valjean, and had to remain in his own home whenever he wasn’t forcing himself out to work. Valjean had a note delivered to him:

“Shall I come by? I’d be glad to be of help to you.”

A message arrived back to him a few hours later, penned in a shaky hand:

“No.”

Eyes up. Eyes forward.

He hadn’t noticed anything. For the longest time, for the entire time they’d served the same town, he hadn’t understood what the looks meant.

Back straight. Smile.

Valjean had known the inspector to be no more nor less than a useful and taciturn presence in Montreuil. He had seen nothing in the occasional long gaze and the perplexing expression; he had never suspected that it was anything more than the natural curiosity of one man taking in the other.

It was only when the matter with Fauchelevant had transpired, only after Javert had disappeared and reappeared quite conspicuously, that he was first alerted to the possibility of discovery.

Do not shake hands. Keep still. Speak up.

He was met suddenly with the inspector one day several weeks following, one day after the incident in the road and the incident with Fantine. He was working in his study, and the inspector stood, silent, behind him. He took some moments to work—to feign work while he allowed his pulse to return to something like normal.

Presently he turned about. He looked up. He kept his gaze straight forward on the inspector’s face; he set straight his spine.

“What is it? What have you to say, Javert?” He inquired heartily, allowing his face to pull into a carefully-cultivated smile that showed as little of his teeth as he could manage. The man didn’t meet his gaze, and certainly didn’t smile.

“Monsieur le maire, an unpardonable offense has been committed.”

“What offense?”

“A subordinate police officer has in the gravest manner shown lack of respect towards a magistrate."

He relaxed slightly. It was a matter of the police. Javert went on: It was a matter concerning himself only. The man sought his own dismissal on the grounds of a serious offense, the offense of denouncing the mayor. A simple, meaningless thing. His smile had just about become genuine when—

“The fact is, I took you for a certain Jean Valjean.”

The smile fell. Hands trembled on the files they held, and the gaze, ignored though it was, couldn’t be maintained.

“A certain—what did you say the name was?” He tried to bring the smile back. It trembled.

“Jean Valjean.” He let go a breath. He bent his back and his feet shifted against one another.

Javert went on. He heard nothing. He fancied he heard nothing again, not really, until he was back in his rooms, pacing the floor and bargaining with God.

It was a charming place, really. Small; somewhat sparse. But it would do. It would more than do for two who had frequently lived with little, and who had no great desire for the company of men other than each other. Enough could be grown in the fields for a few people; the cottage could just about be divided comfortably between two, provided they were close.

Valjean lifted a crate of seeds into the shed, reviewing his surroundings fondly. At last, here was a place to really belong; to stay for the probable rest of his days. Having been there only a short while—a matter of hours—already it struck him as the loveliest place he’d ever inhabited.

He made his way back into the cottage. He found his companion in the small sitting room, puzzling over the pair of books he’d brought with him to the countryside. Jean approached with joy in the fine lines of his face, such joy, in fact, that it had to be passed along through a swift kiss to the cheek.

“Apples,” Jean said, pulling an already-startled Javert fully away from his work.

“What?”

“Apples. I think we should farm apples alongside everything else. The trees don’t take up too much space, and they’ll be lovely in the springtime and autumn.” Javert gave one of his short, toothy laughs. “You think that funny?”

“It’s the irony of the thought,” Javert replied, with a touch of good humor still sparkling faintly in his words. “What with your sordid past with apples.”

“‘Sordid past...’?”

“You poached apples once. Do you not recall?”

Jean laughed, warm and low, and rested his hand on Javert’s shoulder. “That wasn’t me.”

“Oh.”

“That was Champmathieu. Or wasn’t, rather—I believe he was released.”

“I see. At any rate, it sounds like the sort of thing you might have done.”

“‘Mights’ and ‘sounds’ do not a guilty man make, Javert, and I still strongly believe that we should have apples.”

“Right.” Javert returned to his books, and Valjean left the matter at that. He headed for one of the chests they’d brought with them, this containing a few cushions and pictures for the decoration of their front room. Before he could remove anything, however, Javert broke the silence. “I suppose that I’ll agree... so long as you don’t go about pilfering the seeds.”

Javert failed to fully dodge the cushion lobbed forcefully at his face.

“You’re an imbecile, Fauchelevant.”

They—Jean Valjean in his perpetual guise, and police Inspector Javert—were walking briskly down the street one winter morning, more briskly than Valjean would have liked. There was much that he would’ve preferred in that moment, among them for their speed to be slowed, for Javert to choose his words more carefully, and for the slight pain manifesting in the tips of his ears and his fingers to be remedied.

“I didn’t realize that we’d be out for so long.” Javert scoffed.

“Have we not trod this same path a hundred times? Ever since—” He stopped. They’d done this thing together ‘ever since’ Valjean had started recovering from an illness, an illness granted him by his time doused in the rough waters of the Seine. “Have we not trod this same path for months, now? At some point, you must be expected to ”

“Well... you might’ve reminded me when you saw me leave the house ill-equipped,” Valjean grumbled into the collar of his utterly insufficient coat. “You might’ve told me just how harsh the cold was to be this morning.”

“Am I expected to be your keeper? It’s a wonder that you ever managed anything more than your own house, let alone an entire town!”

“Running the town was... s-simple,” Valjean said, breath catching on a shiver, “once one knew the procedures... and what the people wanted....”

“I see. You know the secret to running a town and bringing it into prosperity, know the secret to living as you have for all these years, and you can’t even work out how to put on enough clothes when you go outside.” Javert’s tongue clicked derisively. “Ridiculous.”

Javert anticipated a response, and received none. They were silent for some time. Their footsteps sounded against the pavement, they moved past other people taking the air that morning; Valjean shivered audibly. But neither said a word.

They were forced to stop at a corner some ten minutes away from Valjean’s home, waiting to safely pass through a disordered mass of fiacres taking up the street. The older of the men shifted, blew into his hands, and rubbed them firmly up and down his arms.

With the sound of a sigh and the shifting of fabric, Valjean was suddenly enveloped in warmth: In a pleasant heaviness and a close, dark scent. He looked over at Javert to see the man’s coat removed and his gaze pointedly focused upon the wall of carriages before them.

Jean Valjean wasn’t well-equipped to be a father. When he suddenly became one, he found that he was lacking in many of the essentials. Greatest of these, what he wanted for Cosette the most, was a means of education. He'd learned how to read and write and had found it a great asset. He had been able to become the mayor of a city by virtue of his ability to write out instructions for the production of jet jewelry. Thus it was that he wanted to teach Cosette... but he didn't know 

It was weeks into their time living in Paris together that he found what he was searching for: A small book of stories for children. They were simple, nothing extraordinary, but they'd do.

That night, Jean met Cosette in their little apartment and waved the book in her direction. She seemed a little wary of the thing at first, but then he opened it and showed her the inside. She ran her little pale hand down over the page.

"Has anyone ever read to you before?" He asked her softly. Cosette shook her head. Smiling wryly, Jean held out his hand and led her to her side of their bed. She propped herself up against the pillows, and he began to read the first of the stories: A little tale with a cunning fox and a fleet-footed hare outsmarting each other time and time again.

By the time he was finished with the story, Cosette had fallen asleep. Jean pulled the covers over her and blew out her candle and prepared for bed, himself.

The next morning, Jean went out before the dawn to purchase some fresh bread for the morning. When he arrived back, he found Cosette sitting at their dining table, book in her hands, little face pinched in concentration.

“I wanted to know what happens next,” she said, with the sort of charming discontent that only a child could achieve. Valjean smiled.

“Well... the first story’s over. We can move onto the next one tonight.”

“But what happens to the hare’s babies? And the fox’s den?”

“Like I said: That story’s over,” Jean said, and sat down beside Cosette, watching her eyes dance, uncomprehending, over the page. “You’ll just have to imagine what happens next.”

“But—but—it has to have happened, doesn’t it?” She asked, pitch rising as she spoke. “They went on living... they didn’t just... die, did they?”

“No, they didn’t.”

“Then... what happened, Papa?”

“Well....” Jean struggled for a few moments under Cosette’s bright, searching gaze. “Well... the hare’s babies all grew up and had families of their own, and... the fox’s den was rebuilt, and he went off and found a lady fox, and now they’re living together happily.”

Cosette was quiet. She turned away with that same expression she’d had on examining the book. Quite suddenly, she turned back around to face Jean again.

“I don’t think that’s what happened,” she declared. Jean chuckled.

“No?”

“No. I’m sure that the fox had to go off somewhere else because he was ashamed of what he’d done.”

“Really?”

“Yes. And do you know what else? I bet the rabbits were visited by a little lark one day.

“Is that so?”

“Yes! And they also...”

Jean and Cosette never did get to their reading lesson for the morning.

She’d been wearing them when he saw her for the first time.

Fine, ivory gloves. Fashionable, no doubt (though Marius couldn’t be said to be a judge of fashion) and an accent to her beauty, just like everything else she wore.

She’d been wearing them when he met her for the first time.

There, in the garden, in that ethereal place between reality and a dream, he’d made his way in by stealth; he’d found his nymph there, and held her little hand, still covered in the softest leather. He said nothing of it. He kissed it; he kissed her on the cheeks and on the lips, and he was happy.

She’d been wearing them when he saw her again, after the revolution.

She wore them as she pressed something cool to his forehead and whispered sweet words.

She’d been wearing them when he asked for her hand, and, at last, he spoke about them.

“I’ve been wanting to see your hand forever,” he said, gentle and delicate. His beloved’s deep blue eyes were wide enough to catch the light all around them. Marius moved to pull the glove softly down her hand with both of his. “Now that you’ve granted me it—”

“Don’t,” she said suddenly, and turned away, and pulled the glove back up her hand.

“Cosette—”

“Please, don’t,” she whispered. He could hear the tears in her eyes, and tried to catch her gaze, but she only turned away again. Marius knew he didn’t disguise his hurt well enough when he spoke.

“But... why not, Cosette? I’m your fiancée—surely—”

“My hands aren’t—they’re not—like the gloves.” Her voice gasped a little; she sounded as if she’d run past something terrible. “They’re not—light and... soft... like they should be....”

Marius approached. Cosette didn’t turn away this time. She looked up at him, and her face was streaked with shining wet lines. He took her chin in his hand, and turned her face up, and kissed her.

“I don’t mind,” he said, low into the little space between them. He took Cosette’s hand, and she didn’t resist him; she gasped as he began to pull it down her hand, but she did not pull away. Delicate fingers flexed as they were released. Marius pressed his palm into Cosette’s.

It was true: Her hand was rough. The nails were stunted. It was as if she’d worked as a child, perhaps with stones or with lye. But it was nothing horrible; nothing like what the fresh tears and sobs that fell from her would lead one to believe.

“Cosette,” he said, and leaned down, working to catch her watery gaze, “Cosette... your hands are lovely... just as I thought.” He took her hand and kissed the back; he turned it over and pressed a gentler one into her coarsened skin. “Like all of you.”

She gasped again, and her arms clasped tightly around his neck, and, for the first time, her fingers carded warmly through Marius’ hair.

A sequel to "Medicine"


“No.”


The message had arrived a few hours after Jean Valjean had sent his out. Javert had had the courtesy to send him an initial message telling him that he was ill, but he’d said nothing more; he had then proceeded to rebuff Jean’s heartfelt attempts to return the favor Javert had bestowed upon him.

He attempted to rebuff them, anyway.

---------------------------

The day had been terribly long. Javert had spent it swallowing disgusting fluids down the back of his throat and suppressing coughs deep in his chest. These things were unpleasant. However, these were not the sorts of things that one failed to attend to one’s duties for. He bore it. He bore the pain and the drowsiness and the empty chill that ran through him as well he could, for as long as he could. That is to say: Until he was released for the day, and allowed to return to his residence.

Even before he opened the front door, he realized there was something wrong. There was a light burning inside. It was an inside room, but he could perceive the flickering from under the front door, and knew, at once, that there was something amiss. Removing a small knife from his pocket, Javert carefully opened his front door and made his way inside.

The light, he saw, was coming from the kitchen. When he looked down, he could even see a silhouette. Approaching slowly, he raised the knife, and—

“Javert? Ah. Good to see you home.”

The knife dropped from Javert’s hand. He’d taken a sharp intake of breath and was promptly swept up in a fit of coughs.

“Now, now—look what you’re doing to yourself,” Jean Valjean grumbled in what was, Javert supposed, meant to be an agreeable tone. He found it irritating. The coughs, however, refused to cease for long enough to let him say so. “Working all day while you’re ill....” The man shook his head and moved back into the kitchen.

“What—are—you doing in my house?” Javert rasped as soon as he was able to find his voice again. Valjean returned to the room; he lit one of its lamps and offered Javert a small, steaming ceramic cup.

“I thought to make sure that you were well... it sounded as if you’d contracted the same thing I did.” Valjean twitched the cup in his hand. Javert still didn’t take it.

“I told you—quite specifically—not to come.”

“Ah, well... yes.”

“And you’ve broken into my home.”

“There is that, yes.” The man hadn’t even the decency to look ashamed of himself. “But I wanted to help you! You helped me, after all. And you haven’t a housekeeper, and I knew you were going to go on working—”

“Do you really believe that that justifies burglary?” Javert demanded. He spoke again only after a fresh wave of coughing passed through him; his voice came out rough on the other side. “I could arrest you for this.”

Valjean shrugged, and, reaching out, he took Javert’s hand with his free one, and pressed the ceramic cup into it with the other.

“Drink that,” he said. “Get into your nightclothes or something loose. Lie down. You’ll feel much better for it. And I’ll be here if you need anything more.”

Javert looked between Valjean and the cup, sipped it, and headed off to his bedroom with his eyes on the floor.

She never told them. Not her papa; not Marius.

She didn’t let them see it.

She would dust the rooms while they were out; she’d and clean out the pantry when she claimed to be spending time with her sewing. And she’d sweep, always, whenever she could find a moment, whenever the floor needed it—and it always needed it.

Her housekeepers didn’t mind. Her housekeepers liked their mistress’ help, and they said nothing. They called her ‘industrious’ and ‘helpful’ and the words brought a glow to her heart.

She nearly went mad on her honeymoon. Marius wouldn’t even allow her to make the bed.

On her return home, Cosette raced into the house, took in a breath of the slightly musty air, and sighed in relief.

There was so much work to be done.

Stepped over, skipped over, lost amid the corpses; unseen as Death passed by, Marius had simply been... missed.

It was impossible to understand, at first. His companions at the barricade—every one of them had been more dedicated to the cause than himself. Every one of them had poured himself into the work; had dedicated something great to the pursuit of freedom.

What had hemdone? Merely offered himself up when he discovered the bravery and nobility of his father. Love had drawn him away from the cause, and love had drawn him back. It had never been solely for the rebellion that he'd acted.

Surely someone like Enjorlas, Combeferre—one of those that had cast himself in the shape of the revolution—should have been the one to survive. What, he wondered, could there be in him that was meant to go on?

He wondered for long hours. He wept over the question. He found no answer, no answer in his waking days; no answer in the dreams of his friends' faces, living and dead.

At last, one day, he realized: He was meant to live *for* them. He was young, and he had means. He could see it, he could see himself going forth and doing the things and making the marks that his friends would have wanted for the world. His vocation allowed him to affect change; his wealth allowed him to fund the right things.

He could live a thousand lives in the space of one. And, for them, he would.

A cheesy wishful reimagining of Marius' reaction to Valjean's confession

“You see, Monsieur,” Valjean said, voice low and eyes lower, “I am a convict. I was imprisoned for nineteen years, and I broke my parole... I was imprisoned again, and I escaped.... I don’t belong in the company of men, I don’t... I don’t believe that Cosette should see me any longer. She... was appalled, once, when she saw the chain gang go by... she struggles to believe that such wicked men exist, and I... I’m one of them. It would break her heart, Monsieur, to know what I am.”

They were sitting across from one another in the drawing room of Monsieur Gillenormand’s massive home. It had taken some time, some great strength for Jean Valjean to give himself up in this way, to throw away the love that had been so close... but he had always been a man of strength. He had to do this, to leave Cosette before he caused her harm.

He had made an effort to look at Pontmercy as he made his confession... and then there was silence. The quiet between them was heavy; it fell upon Valjean and made him close his eyes against the finality of what was coming next.

He jumped when a hand joined the invisible weight upon his shoulder.

“Monsieur... Valjean,” the young man said. Valjean opened his eyes to the sound; there was an unexpected warmth to Pontmercy’s voice. The warmth to his gaze was even stranger. “Monsieur, I understand that... you have done wrong. I understand that you were imprisoned once, that the law has pursued you, but... who among us hasn’t done wrong?”

Valjean startled again, and struggled with his speech for several moments. “B-but—Cosette—she would die if she were to know what I am, she would—”

“You think too little of her.” Pontmercy smiled. “Monsieur... you have raised a bright, dear, kind young woman. I’m certain that she would understand. I’m certain that she, like me, would realize that... you can’t possibly be as evil as you claim. Not when you raised her so well; not when you saved her from a life of misery.”

“Monsieur, I have... I have stolen... I have... been indecent....”

“Your acts, sir—your acts are what’s most important. I learned that from my father... and my friends,” he said vehemently, and, with a great effort, rose to his feet, bidding Valjean do so as well. “Cosette loves you. She wants you to be a part of our family... I do, too, Monsieur.”

Valjean stood, but his eyes fell again, weighted down by the tears that had sprung to them. He sobbed, and Pontmercy’s hand returned to his shoulder.

“Come along with me, Monsieur... we’ll... we’ll tell Cosette together, and I’m sure that she’ll understand.” He smiled; Valjean could see it through the tears. “I’m sure that she will.”

Inspired by the 2018 miniseries' decision to have Valjean and Javert ride back to Montreuil from Arras together

Never before had Javert been in such a small space in the dark. Never before had he been in such a space with another, one single man, close enough to feel the heat from underneath his clothes and hear each breath as it moved in and out of him. Never had he begun to think while confined to such a small space with another: Considered the warmth, the breaths, the scent....

The thoughts impelled him.

He gazed at the figure across from him—the man he had sought, the man to whom he'd given so much undeserved respect—and he heard his own heart beating. He had been unaware of it before. Gazing at that man, it was obvious, thunderous; crying loud in his ears. Fingers twitched on his cane. 

Was this bloodlust? Was this the claws being unfinished with their prey— not ready to be retracted?

He could feel his heart throughout his body, pulsing furiously in the remotest places. He felt the breath of the man across from him, a heavy, warm exhalation that made its way across the carriage; he leaned back with a breath of his own. He pressed a hand—the one that so longed to reach and grasp—across his eyes.

He opened them again. He cast them out the window. The countryside rolled by, blind. Had any eyes been outside that space, they couldn’t have seen in; the carriage was moving too fast. There was too little light. The moon was largely obscured and he’d put out the light. Nothing could be seen. He wondered if even God could see into that small space between them.

Eyes trailed back inside the carriage. What little light there was showed Javert a man. A man with an aged face. A fine one. A man in whom he had, for less than an entire day, placed all of his trust. A man who closed his eyes and appeared, despite everything, serene and unmoved; breaths soft and lips gently parted—

His hand moved to his throat this time, grasping at the place where his heart beat the strongest. He had known this feeling before. In the dark. On his own.

Javert closed his eyes, and willed them to remain closed; willed his senses to find unconsciousness in the black of the night. It had just begun. They had just started their journey. There were still many hours before them.

“What did you call me?”

Javert’s jaw was set and his eyes were narrowed as he stared across the table. Jean Valjean smiled placidly and folded his hands at his stomach.

“You needn’t sound so insulted, my friend,” he said mildly. Javert sneered.

“It is an insult.”

“On the contrary: It’s a mark of respect.”

“Oh, really...”

“Yes. It implies reverence.”

“How so?”

“And I’ve been called it for years. Before we really met, even.”

“That’s because you are old, Jean Valjean!” Javert cried bitterly, and pointed sharply across the table. “You must be—what—a decade older than myself?”

“Older, I fancy.” The smile never left Jean’s face.

“Then—then what right have you to go about calling me—”

“I know the signs. I’ve seen them in you.” He took a sip of his sweetened coffee; Javert crossed his arms over his chest.

“‘Signs?’ Like... what, precisely?”

“Well... besides the grey hair—” Javert’s hand instinctively moved to his temple, as if to verify the fact with his fingers— “there are your habits. You’re extremely set in your ways.”

“Why—that’s—”

“You never leave your house except to work and to come here.”

“I haven’t any other place I want to go.”

“You nearly flew into a rage when I told you how much sugar I wanted in my coffee.”

“Well... that was utterly preposterous. It still is.”

“You see what I mean.” Javert colored a little and looked down at the table.

“You shall rot your teeth that way... poison yourself.”

“And then, of course,” Jean grinned over the edge of his cup, “there’s your age.” Javert looked up again; there was a muscle jumping in his jaw.

“Fifty-two is a perfectly respectable age!”

“Ah, yes, there’s that word: ‘Respectable.’ Once you’re respectable, Javert, you’re considered old. There’s no other way of looking at it.”

Before he could blink twice, Javert stood from his place at the table. Before he could blink again, Javert had stepped between his legs and pressed a long, hard kiss against his lips.

“I’ll show you, Valjean,” he growled in his ear, “I’ll show you how old I really am....”

Javert never did return home that evening.



Monsieur Gillenormand wasn’t present for the entirety of his grandson’s wedding reception. Halfway through the event, he had a sudden thought, a sudden, perfect thought, and had to make his way back home. By the time he returned to the festivities, the new husband and wife were making their way out. He stopped the pair of them just before they left the church.

“My boy!” He cried, and threw his arms around Marius. Or, rather, he threw his arm around Marius; in the other hand, he was carefully holding a china cup full of a steaming liquid. “Just about to be off, eh?”

“Yes, father,” Marius said warmly, amused by the enthusiasm written everywhere on his grandfather’s aged face.

“Come along with me for a moment. I have something to give to you.”

Reluctantly parting from Cosette, Marius followed his grandfather back into the church, into a side room by the door. Gillenormand closed it carefully behind him, then offered the cup to Marius.

“Drink that,” he told him. Marius, baffled by the suddenness of the request, looked skeptical. “Well, go on, go on! You don’t think you’ll be poisoned by your own grandfather, do you?”

“No, no, I just....” Marius, still smiling, sighed. “Well... all right.”

He took a sip from the cup. Whatever was inside was absolutely delicious. It was sweet and rich and tasted like cream and something unidentifiable that made him hum in the back of his throat.

“Father... what is this?”

“Chocolate! It’s good for you. I’ve been taking it for years,” Gillenormand declared. Moving a bit closer, he added, “And it’s supposed to be good for—other—things. In the bridal suite. If you take my meaning.”

Marius didn’t. Not until several hours later, when his brain finally put together the words and the crookedness of the smile that had been on his grandfather’s face, and then he groaned aloud.

Javert started awake.

Light was falling on his face. The warm, golden light of dawn, shining into his eyes and blinding him. He breathed hard, suddenly; he knew nothing around him, neither the bed nor the window nor this blazing burst of light.

There was a hand on his shoulder. He threw his head around and gazed into the shadow, and his breaths came easier.

“It’s early yet,” Valjean said, soft as the smile on his face. “Lie down... rest with me.”

Javert closed his eyes against the light, fell gently back into Valjean’s arms, and slept once more.