Title: Midnight Love
Work ID: 36102496
Author: kanpohongchendeC
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Post-Seine, Can be read as gen, chinese to english translation, Late Night Conversations
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Midnight, Javert knocked on Valjean's door. They had a late night conversation.

Work text:

"Your pardon, but it is time for me to go."

When the bell strikes, Javert rosed at once, oblivious to the unfinished discussion and Valjean's pleas. He put on his coat and unlocked the door. Valjean followed, inquiring hesitantly, "Where is your hat?"

"Lost it." He responded, pushing the door open, "Haven't got around to buy a new one."

The candlelight was a dim yellow, pouring out of the house and onto the road, lighting up a small patch of the stone-paved path, making the surroundings seemed even more ghastly in contrast. Javert stepped out into the night, as if melting into the darkness, disappearing in ignorance. It was not until later that Valjean recalled: that night seemed to be a night of overcast clouds. There was no starlight, as on the day the barricade falls.

 

The bell strikes twelve times.

 

This was followed by three knocks on the door, terse, firm, and familiar. The concierge was perhaps already deep asleep since she made no sound of answering the door. Valjean put down his book and lifted the candle, trying to place where the familiarity had come from. He went down the stairs and looked out of the window, but the street was an endless, murky shade of black, unfathomable to the naked eye. He then remembered that there seemed to be a problem with the streetlights two days ago that had not yet been fixed. After nightfall, the short walk along Rue Plumet was almost completely dark, that even carriage drivers were reluctant to approach.

He continued downstairs, wondering who the unexpected midnight guest might be, while carefully trying not to wake the concierge and Cosette. He turned the door and raised the candle. The darkness faded like a tidal wave, revealing the portrait that was concealed beneath. It was Javert. The candlestick nearly toppled from Valjean's hand, but Javert steadied it in time. His fingertips brushed against Valjean's briefly then jerked back as if been scalded. They faced each other, both looking apprehensive. Valjean thought that he had come at last, that fate had taken a turn but eventually circled back to the beginning.

Before he could make a sound, Javert spoke up. His voice was gruff and weary, as if he was exhausted from a day of chasing. "You (Vous) ... ..." he paused, then sighed in exasperation and lowered his eyes, "May I come in? "

"Just like old times?" He blurted out, regretting it instantly, the words reached his mind a step too late. Then, like a lost key, or a missing piece of a puzzle, he remembered. When he was still the mayor ... ... or M. Madeleine, they would sometimes talk freely through the nights. Back in those days, Javert's knock was exactly that. Precisely three times, in a short rhythm, same as the way he strode in the streets. Valjean clutched the candle holder tightly and braced for Javert's response. He shouldn't have said that.

Surprisingly, Javert's tightly furrowed brow gentled instead. He nodded almost imperceptibly, and repeated, "Just like old times."

On the way up the stairs, Valjean explained that the streetlights had been recently broken. Javert pursed his lips and breathed an apology, in turn making Valjean apologise hastily.  "That's not what I meant." Valjean explained, "You don't have to apologise for that, after all, it's not you who broke the lights." Javert was noncommittal. They approached the upper floor, but the room only contained one chair, forlornly placed by the singular desk. Eventually, they both sat on the bed, where the candle was placed on the bedside table, radiating light and heat with its lonesome form.

Back in the days, their evening conversation would normally have started with Madeleine asking Javert about his day's work. But things had long since changed. Valjean wanted Javert to initiate the conversation now. It would be a challenge, and they both knew it. Even now, he still hadn't been able to figure out Javert's intention. He had first assumed that Javert was here to arrest him, but he hadn't a clue now. Was there a need for a colloquium before the arrest? But Javert was still waiting, so Valjean cautiously decided a question. "I hear ... ... you haven't been seen at the police station for some days?"

He got a bad start, as evidenced by Javert's reaction. The bedsheet creased under Javert's rough grip, he gave Valjean a fleeting look. "I've been to ... ... other places." He weighed his words, then glanced at Valjean again, "Thinking through things. They may not have gotten the message yet."

"You mean to say that you resigned?"

He nodded, followed by silence. After a moment, Javert begins, "To be honest, I didn't quite expect it myself. I - there were things I couldn't make sense of."

"Would you mind sharing? Perhaps I can be of some help." He tried to take Javert's hand to reassure him, which usually worked, but Javert slipped his hand away. His palm was cold, it was as if an icy stream of water slipping through Valjean's fingers. Valjean felt a queer sense of loss.

Javert folded his hands on his lap and spoke slowly, "I was wondering what justice truly is. I had always thought, that the law was just. Until I met you, I found that the rules are no longer valid. Was it justice to arrest you? I don't think so. Your deeds show that you are an utterly good man, and putting a good man in jail is not something I want to do. But would it be justice to release you, in violation of the law? It was a dilemma, for me at the time."

Valjean's heart trembled. "So you resigned?"

Javert averted his gaze, fixed to the ground, and answered softly, "So I resigned."

"Then, have you come up with an answer?" Stop it, don't ask further.

A slow nod. "The goodness of humanity. One's heart." He said, "The simplest of judgments, the most lenient and strictest of standards." He let out a long breath, "It sounds infantile ... ... but it is the answer I at last came up with."

"No, no." Valjean quickly interjected, offering a smile, "I am glad you think so. That you were able to come to this conclusion in such a short time, almost overturning all previous creeds, it must have been difficult."

"Very difficult indeed. Fortunately I've had a lot more time to think about it, more time than you may think." Javert's shoulders slumped, he made an effort to put on a smile but failed. Valjean wanted to stroke his back, but he didn't dare reach out again. After a moment, the briefly displayed affliction shrank back once more, crept back under the heavy armour weaved from baton and greatcoat. Javert then changed the subject.

Valjean was astonished at how much he could talk about with Javert, who seemed to know everything.  Even gardening, which Javert had once known nothing about, seemed to be within his league now --- He even knows of some cultivation methods, though unusual, but are ingenious and highly feasible that even Valjean had not heard of. When he probed him about where he had learned all this, Javert just muttered vaguely about how he had come across it in a book. An odd sense of dissonance lingered on Valjean's mind.

 

The bell strikes once.

 

Javert stood up, "It is late, perhaps I should not continue to intrude, you should rest."

"You know that sleep is no longer as necessary for a man my age."

"At two o'clock, I must leave."

The night talk went on until the clock struck two. Javert rose to leave, and Valjean insisted on seeing him to the door. As they descended the stairs, Valjean followed behind carrying the candlestick. The wavering candlelight cast long shadows on the wall, and at that moment Valjean was struck by a sudden realization.

 

Javert had no shadow. His hands were cold.

 

"Will you be back?" He asked, trying to contain the tremor in his voice. Javert wasn't aware of it, and couldn't see Valjean's paling face with his back turned. "Not anymore, I think." He replied, "The place I'm going to is a bit far."

He watched Javert put on his coat. He watched Javert walk into the night, never to be seen again. His shadow lay lonesomely on the glacial pavement. Darkness swept Javert away like a torrent. No, that wasn't right.

Javert disappeared into the darkness, like water in rivulet, Valjean thought sadly. He had no family, no friends, a solitary shadow in the world of men, and now at last he had gone back into nihility. He blew out the candle, stood upright, and allowed the darkness to engulf him too. His shadow too went into the thickening night. He waited in vain.

 

Early in the morning, Valjean reads about the suicide of a police inspector on paper, who thrown himself into the river. There were clattering noises down the street, and while someone had finally come to fix the streetlamp, Valjean wished, inopportunely, that it had stayed broken. At least then he could tell himself at night, that there was a figure waiting longingly at the door amid the inky shadows. He would knock three times, and Valjean would welcome him in. They would talk all night. He would hold the shadow's hand and caress his back, and there will be no more lonely soul in the world.

 

 

 


The End.
