Title: Endearing Qualities
Work ID: 36200302
Author: Faerdhinen
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fluff, Really. It's just self-indulgent fluff, Post-Seine
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
“You sneezed,” he states, matter-of-factly.


“I… Yes? Is something the matter?”


The man in front of him does not reply and instead undoes one of his gloves and presses the back of his hand to his forehead. The bluntness of said action makes flush rise on his cheeks. Touches were not uncommon for them in these days and age, but they still take him by surprise whenever Javert instigates them first.

or, Javert can be overprotective, sometimes.

Work text:

Javert, as Valjean have realized and known for a long time, is a man of routine. The man lived his life like a pendulum. Punctual, rigid, and unchanging. This was true even after the unfortunate event that was the Seine.


Which is why for these past couple of weeks, the man is as restless as a bee. Paris have been swept with downpour for what seems like months now and it has been keeping Javert from his daily walks. It is autumn after all, so it should not be too surprising that there is a lot of rain. Valjean, for his part, is doing fine in this weather; but Javert unfortunately is quite visibly affected by the change that was forced to his routine.



Thankfully though for today, the weather is not so bad. Just a little fall of rain here and there. Nothing as severe that would disrupt anyone’s activities outside. There’s even a little bit of sun too which Valjean is really glad to have as that means he’ll be able to tend to his garden later should the drizzle stops.


“Would you like to accompany me for a walk?” Javert asks him, already wrapped in his greatcoat, scarf, and gloves. Valjean sets his book down and smiles kindly at his inspector. What a question. Of course he’d be more than happy to accompany him.


“Of course. I’ll be back in minute.” 



Javert nods at him and Valjean makes haste to don his own clothes.


 


The weather is indeed pleasant. The drizzle have completely stopped and there's even a hint of sunlight shining as bright as the overcast cloud would allow. It is pleasantly cool outside, and he hums to himself as he sees Javert visibly relaxes in regaining his routine.



Then suddenly there is a gust of wind, a particularly cold one that catches him unaware and Valjean sneezes. 



“Bless you.” Comes the deep baritone from the man in front of him. Javert doesn’t even turn to look at him, eyes set on the road in front of him, hands clasped behind his back.


Again, Valjean smiles at himself. “Ah. Thank you.”

Javert does not respond at him again and continues walking instead and Valjean follows behind him gladly. Everything is well. Here he is walking behind the man he loves and holds dear above all else and the rain has stopped even if only for a moment. 

 

But out of nowhere, Javert stops dead in his track. He turns around and looks at him, worries lining his features. Valjean raises an eyebrow at his expression. What is there to be worried about to warrant such an expression from him?


“You sneezed,” he states, matter-of-factly.



“I… Yes? Is something the matter?”



The man in front of him does not reply and instead undoes one of his gloves and presses the back of his hand to his forehead. The bluntness of said action makes flush rise on his cheeks. Touches were not uncommon for them in these days and age, but they still take him by surprise whenever Javert instigates them first.


Suddenly it occurs to him what Javert was thinking and he laughs heartily at the realization. “Javert, it was only a gust of wind. I’m perfectly alright.”

The inspector does not look convinced at this. Instead he mumbles something under his breath, one that’s unfortunately not loud enough for Valjean to hear. And before he even realizes it, Valjean finds himself wrapped in another layer of scarf. A grey wool, wrapped firmly over his own red one. 

“We’re going back.”  Javert says suddenly, taking his hand in his as he starts walking the opposite direction, taking him with his steps.


Valjean, seeing this man who have spent decades hunting him being concerned over his health over a gust of wind can only chuckle silently. It is quite endearing and it is indeed something that the Inspector would do. It’s also quite endearing that Javert is this terrible at showing affection.



Besides, he truly is fine. The wind had merely caught him off-guard but he is warm, now even more so. Especially with Javert’s scarfs looped around his and the gloved hand holding his own.



“Javert…” Herein this moment, Valjean have never wanted to kiss Javert as much as he does now and he’d do it in a heartbeat were they not outside. He is not used to being cared for by anyone. So to see this man showing this affection on him so strongly like this in his own absurd ways. It is quite overwhelming.



Still, he follows behind him, squeezing the inspector’s hand tighter; a smile form on his face once more when Javert squeezes back.


 

It is a bit unfortunate that he has to foregoes his walks again, but he will not have this martyr of a man martyr himself for his sake. Once they were inside, Javert hangs his greatcoat on one of the racks. When he turns his back, he sees Valjean smiling at him dumbly, his smile impossibly wide and so full of affection. 


“Javert, we did not have to do that. I was truly fine. See?” As if to reassure him, Valjean holds out his hands for him to inspect and Javert takes them. They’re indeed warm, and the man looks just as healthy as he was before.



Still, he’s not taking any chances. Valjean has an infuriating tendency to lie about his own well-being for other’s sake.


“I shall survive another day without a walk. It was foolish of me to ask you to accompany me,” he starts as he places the top hat on another rack. “Besides, I cannot trust you to be truthful when it comes to your own wellbe—”

His sentence is cut short by the feeling of a pair of lips on him. Valjean is kissing him. Deeply, fondly. It doesn’t last as long as he would’ve hoped though for Valjean pulls back after merely two seconds or so. “Thank you. That was very kind of you, Javert.” 

When he takes a good look at Valjean, he sees the man smiles at him, warm and soft, his lips now as red as the scarf that’s still wrapped around his throat. He stares at him for what feels like an eternity before he closes the gap between them and brings their lips together again. Like this, he feels Valjean melts instinctively around him, his hands clutching the back of his waistcoat and pulling him closer.


He will protect and love this man. This infuriatingly kind man who puts his own safety and need below others, he will protect him.
