Title: where's that new world now the fighting's done
Work ID: 36532399
Author: xkcdBlackHat
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Marius Pontmercy/Éponine Thénardier, Enjolras/Grantaire (Les Misérables), Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Everyone is Dead, Bad Ending, Suicide, Execution, Angst, Unrequited Love
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
They all die, one after the other. Some with each other. Some alone.

Work text:

In the end, they are all gone.

Éponine goes first, of course. She pulls a gun away from her beloved. She did not believe in their ideas, fancy words worth nothing from those who’ve never starved, because they could never understand how she lived.

Gavroche next. How fitting, the Thenardier children to be the first gone. He’s witty, fierce, brave like only those who have never seen death can be. He is young, a pup not yet grown up, a soldier to his last.

The Amis fight together and die together. The National Guard pays dearly for each of their lives. Every revolutionary’s life is bought in the blood of the army. The blood of the dead, of students and idealists, soaks the streets.

Enjolras learns how precious men find their lives to be. He is abandoned by those he thought would rise. The streets of Paris are empty, the people of Paris sleeping in their own beds, the blood of commoners not spilled. The aristocrat dies with no thanks.

Grantaire sees that anger die. Like the girl who was a boy, he was not here for some revolution, nor for some grand dream. He was here for love, a love that will never be returned.

Inspector Javert falls. Perhaps he found love, perhaps he lost it. No one knows, least of all the men who looked up to him. They will whisper, quiet and confused, they will wonder and never know why. Into the river he goes, spitting the convict’s pity back in his face, alone as he has been all his life.

Valjean loses his heart. His girl off to be married to a rich noble, stealing her heart with a moment’s glance, his beloved in the river. He lives not many days past his girl’s wedding, the girl he sacrificed everything for.

Marius does not expect the knock on his door. Thenardier tells the army the tale of a revolutionary who escaped. They believe it. They come for him just weeks after he marries his true love. His head is high. He dies as his leader once wished to. Vive le France!

Cosette has lost everything and everyone. She follows a man she never knew. She joins her father too soon. I loved you!

They are all gone, by the end.