Title: Hearts
Work ID: 37294795
Author: Fluxit_Aqua_et_Sanguine
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Implied/Referenced Suicide, Fluff and Angst, Love Confessions, Experimental Style, Ficlet
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 2/2

Summary:
Javert felt very much and very little in his heart.

Work text:

There was much that Javert hadn’t felt in his heart.


“Would you, perhaps, like to join me in a walk?”


There were many things about which he was aware, things that he knew comprised the experience of other men, but he had never known.


Crisp, biting early-morning air. The smell of the river, still touched by horror. The rough woolen brush of their coats against each other.


Other men took lovers. Other men had wives. Other men spoke of these things, laughed; wept about them even.


“Are you all right? We needn’t go this way. Come. We can go down by the park instead.”


It had always, ever, been other men.


Another path. The scent of the river gone, replaced by something nearer, something warm and heavy and welcoming. Wood and cloves and....


He had believed himself absent such feelings.


Would it be wrong to take his arm?


Such feelings were base at their core. Lusts made rarefied.


Certainly it would.


There was nothing fine in them. The beauteous words with which they were described were no more than cloaks to disguise their shame.


The brush of skin, questioning, present, against his palm.


And yet there were moments.


Reaching backward; lacing rough fingers softly together.


Times when he wondered.


It wasn’t shameful. Walking with him, hands embracing one another, there was no fear in the broad silence of the vacant street.


Loneliness found him in quiet places: crept in upon him while he took a solitary meal or forced himself into a book.


Nothing and no-one but the window glass blearily reflecting their images as they passed.


He had never sought relief, for he had never needed it.


“Are you feeling better?”


He had needed it once. After he jumped.


Nodding softly. No words.


It had been there in the form of Jean Valjean, his vexation; the contradiction that had destroyed and reformed his understanding of life itself.


“I’m glad.”


That man had shown him.


Slowing. Stopping to listen to the breath of wind playing in the trees and to find breath for himself.


Evenings together had taught it to him, slowly; patiently.


The kind, wizened face by his side.


He grew to believe. He grew to understand.


Giving voice to a word of love.


He grew to feel something in his heart.

There was much that Javert had felt in his heart.


Valjean’s face breaking into a smile.


Much of it had always been present. Some had only come about in recent weeks.


A fluttering feeling inside him, centered in his chest.


It had always been true that his heart throbbed.


Faintness. The request to sit.


He had never been able to run very far. His breath rarely stayed with him.


“Of course. Certainly. There are some benches just down the street.”


The skin of his fingertips and lips came over cold and blue at times.


Walking with stilted steps. Hard, arrhythmic pounding.


He believed that these things were uncommon. He didn’t hear other men speak of them.


Holding onto his hand, still.


Yet there had never been reason to fear.


The cold of the iron bench. Breath still lost.


What cause had he to fear things that did not greatly interfere with his life?


“Are you all right?”


Maybe the recent developments gave some cause for worry.


A convulsive gesture, in-between shaking and nodding the head. Squeezing the abnormally hot hand with his own.


There had been pain.


“Tell me... please....”


His heart beat strangely. Tempoless. Erratic.


Trying to speak. Failing.


But never had it harmed him.


Blackness overtaking the view of the trees, closing in on Valjean’s anguished face.


There was much that Javert had felt in his heart.


Nothing in his chest. No sound, no pulse. Sepulchral silence in his ears....


Until there was nothing.