Title: something stupid and pretentious
Work ID: 37634065
Author: ghostoctet
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Everyone lives, and is relatively happy, except Javert has like severe depression, Depression, depressive episodes, Understanding, hurt with a tiny bit of comfort?
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Sometimes, the depression grabs him by the throat. This life, this new life he leads, is a protective shell from the outside world. The quaint cottage of Valjean’s is secluded and cozy. Here, they have the luxury of taking in the sorrow of society in pieces. His own experience is now something moldable for him to take control of. And though he leaves most of the curating to Valjean, in favor of easing through the days, he enjoys the distance. He filters the news and most of the media he consumes, rarely touching his phone. Valjean does much of the same, though he keeps up with current events so he can keep the people in his prayers. Javert hasn’t seen anyone but the locals and Valjean’s family in months, he drinks fresh peppermint tea from their garden every night and sleeps with a nightlight on. All of this effort to push himself away from all that is bad and he is still consumed.

Work text:


Sometimes, the depression grabs him by the throat. This life, this new life he leads, is a protective shell from the outside world. The quaint cottage of Valjean’s is secluded and cozy. Here, they have the luxury of taking in the sorrow of society in pieces. His own experience is now something moldable for him to take control of. And though he leaves most of the curating to Valjean, in favor of easing through the days, he enjoys the distance. He filters the news and most of the media he consumes, rarely touching his phone. Valjean does much of the same, though he keeps up with current events so he can keep the people in his prayers. Javert hasn’t seen anyone but the locals and Valjean’s family in months, he drinks fresh peppermint tea from their garden every night and sleeps with a nightlight on. All of this effort to push himself away from all that is bad and he is still 

consumed

. 


 


It is ungrateful. For him to lay in bed filled with dread and hatred and awful things when Valjean has given him all of the kindness available to man. Outside the bedroom window, Valjean whistles under the bright morning sun as he tends to their plants. Probably thinking about how much love he’s filled with, or praying. It makes Javert grimace, and that makes him even more sick. Why, 

why, 


why does he have to be like this. 

Why can’t the happiness of his life rub off on him and free him from himself. He’s truly a despicable man, to be surrounded in all of these gifts from a god he can’t force himself to believe in and to still wallow. Amongst all of Valjean’s kindnesses, pulling this poison ridden body from the waters feels like the nastiest injustice. 


 


The back door quietly opens and closes, Valjean returning to the house. He’ll be coming into the room soon, and he’ll find Javert awake. Of course he will, because this is his house and Javert is merely the parasite hiding under the bed sheets. 


 


Valjean walks in to find Javert awake, but tense and frowning. Something obviously off. “Good morning.” He says, moving to the blinds. He doesn’t draw them completely up, that would be a disturbance and no good. But a little light never hurt anyone, and may be especially good for Javert’s cloudy mind. “I can make some breakfast, if you’d like. Toast?” Something light, easy to stomach. 


 


Javert frowns (scowls, really) highlighting his sharp features. He waits a while to respond before mumbling a short “Not hungry” and burying his face back in the pillows. 


 


“Some coffee then? We can make a run to Edna’s.” Valjean busies himself with changing into day clothes, but his eyes remain on his partner in bed. Javert huffs. 


 


He doesn’t want to be rude, and he appreciates Valjean attempting to coax him out of bed with promises of warm food and his company on some distant level of his brain. But he just can’t. He can’t get out of bed and be seen, he will make some terrible mistake and cause everything to become so much worse. “I uh...I can’t. Not today.” 


 


“Just out of bed is too much right now, yeah?” His tone is understanding, but Javert can’t soften. He’s made of lead and is far too heavy for softness. 


 


He says nothing. 


 


“How about you sleep in and we try again in an hour?” 


 


It’s clear that this time Jean would like a response. Javert gives a curt nod, staring into the corner. 


 


“I’ll run and get the coffee.” And with that, he is gone. Javert is alone again. 


 


He loses time. It can’t have been an hour when Valjean is back, pressing a warm latte into his shaking hands. But it has to have been. Valjean does not lie, not anymore. 


 


Javert sits still, barely breathing. 


 


“Have a sip, dearest.” 


 


He takes a sip. And they continue like this. Valjean joins him in bed, stretching out and grabbing the remote for their small television. He puts on a netflix show about a group of high schoolers struggling with… highschool? It is unclear. 


 


Javert should not judge, when he is struggling with not killing himself. 


 


Valjean asks, “Can I touch you, beloved?” 


 


Javert thinks about it for a moment. He does not particularly want to be touched. He wants to curl up into a ball and vomit up the coffee that he’s forcing down his throat until he drowns in his own sick. He knows that is not an option. He nods, unable to speak. 


 


Valjean wraps a hand around Javerts waist. He takes the coffee out of Javert’s hands, sets it on their bedside table. He coaxes Javert to lay down. Javert obeys. Valjean holds him like he is something beautiful. Like he is not sharp edges. Like he is not dangerous. Terrible. 


 


“Shh…” Valjean strokes his hair. 


 


That is the straw that breaks the camels back. 


 


Javert suddenly surges up and 

runs

. He bolts through their small home into the bathroom and slams the door (it doesn’t lock - none of their interior doors lock). 


 


He manages not to ram his head into the walls, or vomit up his latte. Instead, he compromises and sits in the floor of the shower. Valjean, he can hear, is quietly knocking on the door and saying something. Javert ignores it. He turns the water on as cold as possible and endured it fully clothed. 


 


It leaves him feeling a little more real. 
