Title: A Few Moments
Work ID: 37909297
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fluff and Smut, Established Relationship, Plot What Plot/Porn Without Plot
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Valjean awakes by Javert's side for a rare quiet day.

Work text:

Valjean awoke slowly, drifting into awareness in Javert’s apartment.  He tried to make out what time it was, but his watch was out of reach.  If he listened, he could faintly hear the rumble and bustle of horses and humanity alike in the streets below.  

He was unusually excited about the upcoming day.  Javert had a very rare Sunday off, and they intended to go to a guinguette* outside of the city.  They would have a chance to sip white wine, enjoy the music out in the summer air, and watch the dancing.  Javert had claimed to be able to dance a little; perhaps Valjean would even have the opportunity to find out if it were true.  Valjean had never actually entered such an establishment, but occasionally he had seen the Sunday afternoon revelers on his longer walks after church.  It still felt like a novelty for Valjean to have something that he was looking forward to, and not something hanging over his head and causing dread.

Javert was still asleep, his deep breaths not quite reaching the level of snores.  Despite it being late summer, Javert still had the habit of wrapping himself tightly in all the available blankets.  Valjean didn’t mind, and it was certainly warm enough here on the building’s third floor even without the blankets.  Perhaps this habit would come to annoy Valjean come winter.  Perhaps.  

Valjean watched as the blankets slowly rose and fell.  He wondered if they would still be … whatever they were to one another, come winter.  The word “friends” hardly covered it.  But peace and joy in his life had been fragile and fleeting things, and he could hardly trust that this new happiness with Javert could last.

Javert slowly started to move, stretching out to his formidable full length, and then slowly curling back against Valjean, gathering him into his arms.  Valjean relaxed and let him.  

They had fallen asleep right away the previous night, with Javert exhausted from a demanding case.  Now Javert seemed to wish to take full advantage of his day off, and made no move to get out of bed.  

Valjean began to feel a bit restless, and was ready to get started with the day.  Perhaps he could make breakfast for them both.  He made a move to get out of bed, but Javert’s grip on him tightened.

“Can I entice you to stay?” asked Javert, squeezing his shoulders.

“Don’t you want me to get up and start a pot of coffee?” asked Valjean from within Javert’s arms.  

“Not as much as I want you here.”

This caught Valjean’s attention. He had learned that Javert was fairly motivated by coffee in the mornings.  Then Javert ground against him once, making his intentions perfectly clear.  Valjean looked into his lover’s eyes, smiled his permission, and Javert ground against him again in earnest.  It took Valjean’s breath away.  He responded with movements of his own, and soon all thought of getting out of bed was set aside.  One of Javert’s hands pulled Valjean’s hips hard against Javert’s own, and held him there for several deeply pleasurable moments.  

Then Javert rose, gently easing Valjean onto his back and out of the long shirt he wore to bed.  During the time it took for Javert to shed his own nightshirt, Valjean had just enough time to wonder if Javert already had a plan.  Valjean had become impressed by Javert’s imagination in bed; rather surprising coming from the grim and dutiful man he had known for so many years.  But as he grew to know Javert better, he fancied that he had an artistic streak that found little outlet in his day to day life.  Not knowing what Javert intended was no longer threatening.  Now that there was trust between them, he knew that he could go along with whatever Javert intended, and it would be good.  

Javert kissed a slow but deliberate trail from Valjean’s mouth, open and meeting him, to his cock.  Javert ran a tongue up and down his length, which was rapidly hardening.  He kissed and sucked at it here and there as he went, clearly wanting to tease.  Then his whole mouth was on him, and Valjean moaned with the pleasure and relief of it.  This was a fine way to start the morning, he decided, rolling his hips slightly.  It was not long, however, before Javert pulled away.  It was unlike Javert to leave him unsatisfied, and he stared at him for a moment.  

“I have other plans for you,” Javert said with a smirk.  He reached for the small bottle of vegetable oil that he kept near his bed, and tipping it into his palm, began to apply it to Valjean’s member.  

 Yes, Valjean thought.  All thought was erased except this deep feeling of ‘yes.’  After a moment, he rolled to the side and started to get up.  Javert pressed a hand playfully to his chest, stopping his motion.  Valjean stilled expectantly.

“No need.  I was thinking that you might stay there.  It’s a fine morning, and I was thinking of going for a ride.  If, that is…”

“...Of course.”

Javert straddled Valjean, long legs on either side of his hips.  He lowered himself infinitely slowly onto Valjean’s cock.  Valjean willed himself to remain still while Javert was adjusting to the fullness, but it was a trial to his patience.  At last, Javert began to slowly move up and down.  Valjean gave a sigh of relief and pleasure, as Javert found his rhythm and began to ride him in earnest.  Valjean quickly noticed that this position was far more relaxing than he was used to.  He enjoyed watching as Javert sped up, and he tried to match Javert’s movements from underneath him.  Javert’s moans became breathier than usual as he had to work for his pleasure.  

Valjean ran his hands along his lover’s sides, at first enjoying sleek muscles and then seeking out the spot where he knew he was ticklish.  Javert snorted a laugh and glared at him, motion interrupted momentarily.  Valjean rubbed his hips apologetically, but he had no real regrets.

At last his wandering hands came to rest on Javert’s ass.  He gripped him tightly and began to slowly take control, pulling Javert hard into him with each thrust and guiding him up again.  Clearly pleased, Javert’s body arched closer to Valjean.  Now was the time, Valjean thought, taking Javert’s cock in hand.  This could not last much longer.  He let his other hand trail up to his lover’s chest.  

“Good God, Jean,” gasped Javert.  

Although relatively quiet in passion himself, Valjean reveled in every sound he managed to wring out of Javert.  He was not disappointed.  Javert gave a small cry as Valjean came inside him.  Valjean’s senses returned to him just in time to savor the sight of Javert coming undone in his hands.  

He collapsed on top of Valjean, giving a small sigh of contentment.  Idly, he ran his fingers through Valjean’s short curls; through the beard that really did need to be trimmed.  They waited together for their hearts and breathing to calm.

“Now, I believe you said you wanted to get up and make a pot of coffee?”  asked Javert after another few moments of silence.

Valjean hummed a non-response.  There would still be all day for venturing out into the world, he thought.  There would be all day for the  guinguette.  It’s not as though it was going anywhere.  He pulled Javert back against him, promising him coffee soon if only he would stay a bit longer.  For a few more moments now, there would only be one another.