Title: Love Trial
Work ID: 38159671
Author: barmeycalhoun
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Fluff, Alternate Universe - Modern Setting, Asexual Javert
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert wrote down every reason to not love and to love Valjean. Things go as expected.

Work text:

Javert sat there, staring at his blank binder with a blank face. He could not believe he was doing this. He could not do this- it was madness. Insanity! Javert was not going to do this, he was beyond this depravity and immaturity. This is what a teenage boy would do, not a 50-something year old. He is better than this- and yet here he was, his head in his hands with a white binder in front of him on the coffee table. 

He sighed, opening up the binder, taking out his Pilot G7 black pen with perfect A4 lined paper- and wrote on the top right of the first sheet "Reasons Not to Love Valjean", the top left was titled "Reasons to Love Valjean". He put a line underneath them both, and created a vertical line to make a T chart.

He was really going to do this.

"Reasons not to Love Valjean"
1. AN EX CON.

He wrote that point, underlined and in all capital letters because goddammit, this was the main point, right? He could not date an ex-con, that had to be against some kind of rule or something. But he was pardoned, so Javert crossed that one out too. Not only that, but he forgave Valjean for that one years ago. Not all ex-cons are awful, he thought about his smiles and his- no. Save that for the "Love Valjean" column. He stared at the black ink, before writing the second point. 

2. He has a kid.

Cosette was in college by now, yes. But he should ask her permission first and she'd say no, wouldn't she? (She wouldn't. She thought they were incredibly cute, something about how sun and moon dynamics are superior.) He crossed it out. Javert was not biased, no matter how much he wanted to not love Valjean, he needed to be fair.

Javert sat there, thinking of a third point. He couldn't really think of a reason not to— he groaned.

3. Valjean deserves better.

That was much better, it's true. Valjean deserves someone who knows how to love, how to be honest and kind and gentle all the time, someone who can say "I love you". Valjean deserved someone so much more, someone better than Javert. It made his heart ache, thinking of Valjean with anyone else, but it's the truth. 

4. I'm asexual.

That's a good point. Maybe the first valid one. Maybe Valjean would be interested in those… carnal desires. Yes. He didn't cross that one off. Two points on "don't love Valjean". 

He turned his attention to the right column. He had a feeling he'd spend longer on this one. 

1. Valjean forgave me.

Valjean forgave Javert. Javert, the master of self-destruction, hatred and despair. Javert, the world's most unfriendly man, the most awful, egregious, judgemental, rude, abhorrent asshole known to mankind. If Valjean could forgive Javert, is there anyone better for him? Is there anyone who could love Javert besides Valjean?

2. He saved my life.

Ah yes, the Seine. The river. Valjean jumped in without thinking of his own life, saved Javert, and brought him to the hospital and sat by his side the entire time, despite his apparent lack of appreciation for that act. He cringed thinking of pre-reformation Javert, what an asshole.

3. His smile.

Is this one stupid? Cheesy? God, what has he begun. He can't just put "his smile" as one of the points- he went to cross it off. He put the pen to paper and couldn't bring himself to cross it off. Javert groaned in despair. 

4. He makes me happy.

Does Javert deserve to be happy? What has he done to deserve happiness? He's been nothing but horrible and awful, Javert's done awful things to Valjean and others— he crossed that one off, adding in parentheses (I don't deserve it.)

5. He's funny.
6. He's incredibly intelligent.
7. He's the best person I've ever met.

The last point made him flush. Shit. He thought of Madeleine, and how Madeleine would spend thousands on the homeless, or Valjean offering Javert a bed when he lost his home… or Valjean taking care of Cosette when he really didn't need to. 

8. It hurts to not love Valjean.

Shit. Thinking of Valjean set Javert alight, like the just mere sight of Valjean was enough to make him fall to his knees and pray to a God he didn't believe in. 

9. Valjean deserves love of some kind.

He's been so lonely. Valjean has been lonely, especially without Cosette. Javert didn't forget how once he left, Valjean nearly killed himself from depression and loneliness. Javert, on that day, decided he'd never let Valjean go unloved ever again. 

10. I'm all he has.

Javert knew the answer. He'd love Valjean. That's that, he'd love Jean Valjean until the day he died. No matter how much it hurts, no matter how much seeing Valjean as "just a friend" hurt him, killed him- he'd be just friends.

 

Javert laid face down on his couch and screamed. Why did love hurt so much?!

•

Valjean stared at the binder that sat inconspicuously in the drawer. It was tempting him, why was this nondescript, simple, innocent binder lying hidden under stacks of papers and more?! He picked it up, it was pretty light. 25 pages in total, he would estimate.

He opened it up, revealing a title page "DO NOT READ." It read. Valjean, never one to listen to the rules, turned the page. The table of contents was on this one. He skipped reading it, turning the page again.

"Reasons to Not Love Valjean."

Alphabetized and typed were a list of four reasons, some crossed out with small arguments in bullet points under it.

1. He's an ex-con.
• I forgave him for that one.
2. He has a kid.
• Cosette loves me
4. I'm asexual.
4. He deserves better.

The last two points nearly made Valjean cry. Javert, as usual, underestimated Valjean's love for the other. The asexual point was just ridiculous, did he not know Valjean had no need nor want for things like that?!

He turned the page, hesitantly.

"Reasons to Love Valjean."

1. He forgave me.
2. He saved my life.
3. His smile.
4. He makes me happy.
5. He's funny. Makes me smile.
6. He's intelligent.
7. He's the best person I've met.
8. It hurts to not love him.
9. He deserves love.
10. I'm all he has.

Valjean sat down, turning a bright red as he read these ten points over and over, the Times New Roman font burning into his brain as he tried to think of Javert sitting in front of his computer, typing up the paper with a perfectly straight face. Did he use the police station's printer to print these?! Why did he even have a list?! This isn't normal—

He turned the page.

"Verdict: I love Jean Valjean.

Reasoning: He's brought me more joy than anyone else has in my entire life. I'm guilty, he's brought me light and happiness. He's given me a second chance in life, I'm forever grateful. I can't imagine me without him, he's forgiven me for all my sins. He's done nothing but love me and care for me despite my mistakes. Valjean is perfect. He's deserving of everything and anything, of every inch of my love no matter how selfish it is to keep him to myself. I love him, I'll keep loving him- but if he finds someone better I'll let him go.

Plan: Never tell Valjean. No matter what. No matter how much it aches, never let hi. Know. I don't deserve hi-"

The door opened

"Valje—" Javert dropped the bag he was holding, seeing the binder in Valjean's hands. He turned a bright red, nearly feverishly so. "Oh my god. I'm so sorry, where… where did you find it!? I'm so sorry, I'm so—"

Valjean stood up, Javert a litany of apologies and excuses. He cupped Javert's face, shutting him up as they kissed.