Title: Let Some Mysterious Chunk of Space Debris Puncture the Roof and Set Me Free
Work ID: 38219230
Author: Dendroica
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Pre-Slash, Angst, Missing Scene, Canon Era
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
A missing scene from the Brick, in which Javert catches up to Valjean in Paris after his escape from the jail in Montreuil-sur-Mer. I wanted to explore their dynamic at this point in their relationship, but this isn’t a super-shippy fic. Can be read as gen or pre-slash, your choice.

Work text:

Jean Valjean made his way through the streets in the night, feeling cautiously relieved at last. He had made his way from Montreuil-sur-Mer to Paris, where a wanted man could disappear.  Where there would be no inconvenient ex-argousins  to blight his existence.  He had lost his position as mayor and benefactor of Montreuil-sur-Mer, true, but now here he would continue to atone for his past by ensuring that Fantine’s child was safe and cared for.  He had made the perilous trip on foot, constantly fearing discovery, but now he could breathe out.  

No, the biggest stressor on his mind at the moment was that he was about to find himself in the role of parent.  He hadn’t spent much time considering whether or not this was something he actually wanted.  Valjean was committed to the project of finding Cosette and acting as the girl’s guardian.  That much he knew for certain.  It was what he deeply felt he needed to do. But whether or not he wanted to be in charge of a child; that was another question.  Valjean did not allow his thoughts to interfere with his actions, however.  He had drawn some money from the place in the woods where he had buried it, and now there was nothing left to do but go and retrieve the girl.  He was walking down a narrow, unpopulated street when the hair began to prickle on the back of his neck.  He thought he heard footsteps.

Valjean looked around, but did not see anyone.  The footsteps had ceased.  He began to walk a bit more swiftly, passing underneath a streetlight as he hurried through an intersection.  

For a moment, he breathed easier in the darkness.  Then a man appeared seemingly out of nowhere, and seized his collar.  Valjean reacted instinctively.  Before the other man could say anything, Valjean flung him around, pinning his assailant to the wall with his hands in the small of his back.  The man was tall, dark, and utterly familiar.  

“Javert,” breathed Valjean.  

“The same,” answered Javert with haughty amusement despite his position.

“But…how can this be?  How are you here?”

“I was sent; how else?  You’ve made quite a name for yourself, ‘Monsieur le Maire.’  Made the fool of quite a lot of magistrates. Why, the king himself gave you an appointment to office.  Have you no shame?”  He lectured Valjean with very little apparent concern for the danger he was in.  Valjean felt Javert’s muscles flex as he tested the strength of Valjean’s hold.

“I have a great deal of shame in my life,” said Valjean sadly.  “But not for what I do now.”

“Oh?” Javert asked.  “Do go on.  You’re on the run, having hoodwinked an entire town, and escaped from jail again.  And right now you are busy assaulting an officer of the law.”

“I don’t intend to hurt you,” said Valjean, easing his grip a bit.  Javert squirmed when he felt Valjean’s grip slacken, but he was still not able to escape.  

Valjean thought frantically.  He realized now that there was little he could do with the inspector now that he had him.  Perhaps he could attempt to cuff him to something, but surely Javert would escape if he released him long enough to pat down his pockets for the handcuffs…  

Valjean knew that the safest bet for him would be to knock Javert out, before he called out for help.  But he knew how dangerous such injuries could be from his time in the  bagne …  As mayor, he had tried to keep his distance from Javert, politely sidestepping him when possible.  He had rather thought that Javert kept his distance, as well.  Now they were so close that he felt the solid strength of him, heard his slightly rapid breathing, and felt the heat from his body.  He smelled the sweat from a long shift and the cheap tobacco that he knew was the only luxury Javert allowed himself.  For a moment, Javert seemed entirely human, and Valjean knew he couldn’t bring himself to harm him.

“I suppose I know you well enough to know that you will not accept money -” stated Valjean.

Javert spat on the ground, then attempted to escape again with a burst of energy.  Valjean gently pressed him back into the wall.  He had not really thought that would work, but he had the money on hand with which he had thought to retrieve Cosette…

“Will you give me a few days?  Please.  Tell me where to find you, and I’ll be there.”

“You honestly think that will work?  The first time you tried that, you amused me.  Now I think you insult me.”

“Javert, I could wish you didn’t hold me in such contempt -”

“How should I hold you, then?  ‘By the collar’ would suit me nicely.”

Valjean let out a tense huff of a sigh.  “I’m just a man.  I wish you could see that.  I’m trying to make things right for a little girl.  Don’t you care about what happens to her?”

“This girl is none of my concern, but I can tell you one thing.  She’s in a proper foster family now.  Do you think I would let her be taken from it by a convict that she’s never so much as seen?  Who has no business raising a child?” Javert’s voice had dropped into a growl, and Valjean thought that he sounded surprisingly passionate.  “If I even believed your story, which I do not.”

“I assure you -”

“I’m not interested in your assurances.”

“Javert -” Valjean thought frantically; what could he possibly say or do that would allow both of them to escape this?  

“GUARDS! ” shouted Javert, evidently losing his patience with the conversation and deciding to risk it. 

Panicking, Valjean clapped his hand over Javert’s mouth.  Javert’s lips moved frantically against his palm, until he was finally able to bring his teeth to bear.  Valjean yelped, and for a moment he and Javert struggled frantically against one another.  Valjean used his whole body weight to pin Javert in place against the wall, while Javert pushed him and attempted to drop low out of his grip.  It was a bit of a mystery to Valjean why Javert didn’t strike him, but perhaps the man was aware of his limits and knew he must come out the loser if they were to resort to such violence. 

It was over soon - Valjean had fished the cuffs out and affixed them to one of Javert’s wrists.  He cuffed a swearing, shouting Javert to a post, and began to run.

Valjean ran as fast as he could, taking a jagged route as he went.  He stuck to the side streets and alleys to avoid the attention that he must otherwise have drawn.  Javert would be freed soon, no doubt. He remembered Javert as a fast runner, and knew that he must find cover.  He climbed the wall of a house which appeared deserted, and hid next to the chimney.  His breath came fast even as he tried to quiet it.  

It didn’t seem like long before he saw Javert hurry by accompanied by three gendarmes.  Valjean remained on the roof for a long time before he had the nerve to come down.  He steeled himself.  It would be harder, now with the law on his scent, but he would still find the girl.  Javert’s disbelief would work in his favor, for once.  He would catch the first coach he could find to Montfermeil, and then figure things out from there.  There were any number of places where they could disappear. 

***

Rubbing his wrists with annoyance, Javert knew that there was no time to lose.  Valjean was clever and would have made good use of his head start.  He called in at the nearest police station, and requested that the commissaire dispatch agents to every location where a coach might be leaving for Monfermeil.  Javert reluctantly had to admit that there was a chance that the man was telling the truth, and in any case, he did not have any other leads.  

He himself hurried to one of the locations from which a coach would be departing before dawn.  This time he was accompanied by armed gendarmes - Valjean would not be able to overpower and humiliate him again. The adrenaline from the hunt and from having been so close to his man had kept him going through the night, as he waited.  Sleep was out of the question.  If Valjean was to be here, he wanted to make sure that he would not miss him.  Finally, the coach pulled up to await its passengers.

Javert straightened up in the shadow where he stood.  He was not waiting much longer before a white-haired gentleman appeared.  Joy ran through Javert as he watched - there was no mistaking Valjean in the early dawn light.  He had lost his hat in their previous struggle and now had even less means of concealing himself.  

Javert whistled to the gendarmes who had concealed themselves around the square, and they advanced forward.  Valjean froze, a look of desperation followed by defeat on his face as the group of armed men approached him.  

“Ready to come with me now?” asked Javert with a wolf’s grin.  Javert enjoyed a good chase in general, but there was something about Valjean which particularly got underneath his skin.  The man frustrated him; had done so for years.  Everything about Jean Valjean set his hair on end.  Now he reveled in having him at bay.

“There’s nothing that I could do to change your mind,” stated Valjean.  It might have been a question, had they been different men.

“No.  You know there isn’t.”

Valjean didn’t offer any further resistance, physical or verbal.  Javert had instructed a cab to wait in the next street over, and he led his prey to it.  Valjean climbed in with no complaint, handcuffed and accompanied by two gendarmes and Javert.  

Valjean was silent while the coach brought him in to La Force.  Javert watched him from under the brim of his hat, which he had pulled down.  He wondered at the man. It had not escaped his notice that Valjean had been so careful to avoid hurting him earlier in the night.  He had no illusions about his own strength and prowess compared with Valjean’s.  He knew that Valjean could kill him, if he wished, and yet Javert had not hesitated a moment before attempting to apprehend him alone.  What was this foolhardiness?  Could it be that he did not truly see Valjean as a danger to himself? 

Further, a nagging part of him was surprised that the convict had apparently truly been going to see the prostitute’s child.  Perhaps the woman really had been his mistress.  He couldn’t say why the thought of it bothered him.  If anything, it would rather fit in with what he knew Valjean to be, but nonetheless it made him uneasy.

As he signed Valjean over to the jailor, Javert’s heart sank.  He was coming down from his earlier elation.  As he walked away, a new feeling was calling for Javert’s attention.  It felt - he didn’t have the name for it.  But it almost felt like grief.  For some reason, he was reminded of nothing more than when he had found out that his father had died.  There was no love lost between father and son, but nonetheless he felt grief for the loss of what could have been, had everything been different.  There was no reason he could be feeling grief on this occasion, so he did his best to ignore it.  Later, he would tell himself that his victory was tarnished by his knowledge that no matter what he did, Valjean was liable to break free of captivity and undo all his hard work.  At the time, though, all he knew was that collaring this criminal did not bring the satisfaction he had looked for.  He took a pinch of snuff, but there was no pleasure to be had in it.