Title: For I So Loved You
Work ID: 38344522
Author: estelraca
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Cosette Fauchelevent/Éponine Thénardier, Javert/Jean Valjean, Cosette Fauchelevent & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Family Bonding, Internalized Homophobia
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Cosette follows her father to the barricades, bringing home an injured Eponine whom she nurses back to health. The first kiss was an accident; the fifth is harder to explain away.

Work text:

Following her father to the barricade could almost be said to be an accident. Certainly it was an accident that she helped along, what with how she carefully dressed to avoid his attention and slunk about in his shadow, but she didn’t technically know where she was going or why.

Except she did know, or at least had all the pieces to know. From little bits and pieces that Marius said, she’d gathered that his friends were political, and even started to piece together the reasons why—reasons she found herself largely agreeing with.

Besides, she wasn’t an idiot. She knew what gunfire meant. Sometimes it felt like everyone she knew had grown up in the shadow of one revolution or another, though how much said revolutions actually impacted their lives varied.

And still she went, because her father was going, because Marius was likely there… because some part of her, still new and fragile, thought she had a right to be there. A right to the anger and the certainty of a better future that the people bleeding and dying and hoping promised.

She knew if her father saw her that he would immediately drag her away, though. Staying out of her sight took more work than she would have expected, and destroyed any chance she had of getting near Marius where he stood ensconced with his revolutionary friends.

It ended up being for the best, though. Staying back and helping with the injured meant she found Eponine—meant she wasn’t there when final battle plans were drawn up.

That didn’t keep her from almost dying as the barricades were overrun.

She could have tried to escape on her own. Cosette knows that sometimes being small, unarmed, and non-threatening can be an advantage.

At other times it just means more pain and no hope of fending off your attacker, but Cosette hopes desperately that this will not be one of those times.

Throwing herself atop Eponine’s body, Cosette tries to be still and calm, to keep her breathing from attracting too much attention.

Would she have stayed if it wasn’t Eponine she’d been near? Would she have stayed if it was one of the young men and women she didn’t know that she’d been tending to? Cosette thinks she would have, but she’s not sure.

All she knew for sure was that she couldn’t abandon Eponine—just as she couldn’t follow the blond leader of the barricade and his remaining people into the shop where their last stand happened. Cosette might have a right to the anger of the barricade, but she couldn’t stomach the thought of actually hurting someone. Of pouring acid on them, trying to set them afire, waiting for the gunshots that would be her end—she couldn’t.

What she could do was tend the injured, and make herself small and helpless and insignificant. She could pray, with all the gusto and fervor of someone raised in a convent where the appearance of such things mattered greatly.

“You there!” The young man in the military uniform looks weary, his face spattered by blood, but the rifle and bayonette he carried could still be deadly. “What’s your purpose here?”

Cosette crossed herself, bowing her head and clasping her hands tightly together. “Kind sir, my sister and I are merely in the wrong place at the wrong time. Please, sir, have mercy.”

“Mercy.” Screams came from the shop where the last defenders of the barricade had retreated, and the lieutenant twitched. “Why should I?”

“Because we are harmless, sir.” Cosette dropped her voice to the barest whisper, though she also tensed her legs, ready to move if necessary. Attacking an officer likely won’t help anything, but Cosette isn’t going to die on her knees. “Because did not Christ say—” Cosette hesitates, trying to choose the verse least likely to cause offense. “Little ones, let us not love in word or talk but in deed and in truth. I am merely trying to love my family, sir, and would beg you show Christ’s love to us as well.”

The soldier sighs, weapon dropping.

Not ten minutes later Cosette holds Eponine’s body close as a carriage rattles them towards her house.

The fact that they beat her father home strikes her as the truest miracle of the night, though.

***

Valjean doesn’t know exactly what he’s doing as he wanders the streets, eyes always, always alert for trouble.

He should be at home. He should be praying for Marius’ recovery, or talking more with Cosette, trying to reassure her. She’s been distant and strange since the barricades, distracted easily and frequently seeming to have her thoughts elsewhere.

Which is only sensible, of course. The man she thinks she loves is fighting for his life against illness and infection.

The man Valjean saved, when he didn’t have to.

Should he have carried someone else from the barricades? Could he have lived with himself if he did?

Could he have looked at Cosette with the eyes of a monster?

Running his hands over his face, Valjean looks behind himself again, but Javert—the police inspector who has seemed to always, always appear when Valjean has to make immense decisions—isn’t there.

When will he appear again? What more will Valjean have to give up?

It’s almost a relief to turn a darkened corner and recognize the figure of the police inspector on the side of the bridge. Valjean was right, then. He’s not done having to make terrible decisions.

Then the figure tosses himself forward, into the terrible water, and Valjean moves without thinking.

Even in his old age, Valjean is fast and strong. His body collides with that of the police inspector barely a second after the man has plunged into the water, and before five seconds have passed Valjean has them both back at the surface.

Javert, for his part, does not seem grateful. His hands push ineffectually at Valjean even as he sputters and coughs. “Let… me… drown!”

“No!” Valjean thunders the word with far more force than he meant to, and then drops his voice to a whisper as he pins the flailing man’s arms to his body. “No. I will not let you end your own life. I have lived, and so will you.”

Why is the inspector even trying to end his life?

Javert goes limp in his arms, and Valjean paddles to the bank, dragging them both ashore. Blood seeps down from Javert’s hairline. Had injury been the reason for his foolish insistence on death? Valjean doesn’t know.

He just knows he can’t let even his enemy die in front of him, not if there’s anything he can do to possibly prevent it.

Somewhere in the aching, echoing chambers of his heart, he hopes Myriel would approve of what he has become.

***

Cosette expected Valjean to discover Eponine immediately.

The fact that he didn’t likely qualifies as a minor miracle, even if something seemed to be distracting her father—something other than the battered, barely-alive body of Marius that he’d apparently deposited anonymously at Marius’ grandfather’s house.

Why didn’t he own his good deed? Cosette supposed at first that it was because he didn’t want to trouble anyone, and he feared that if it became known he consorted with rebels there would be police all over them. Her father isn’t a thief—Cosette long ago realized that. But there is something in her father’s past that makes him hesitant to allow authority near, and given Cosette’s own history of abuse she doesn’t deign to push the matter.

He will tell her when he’s ready.

Until then, Cosette will take all the techniques she learns helping to care for Marius and apply them to Eponine’s fever-warm body.

Eponine.

It’s still so fantastical that she’s here. The girl who has always been the other side of Cosette’s coin. The evil step-sister who wasn’t truly evil—who was just a child, in need of saving like Cosette was, only no one came to save her.

Eponine isn’t grateful when she first wakes.

Cosette had expected her to be, and Eponine’s refusal to play along irks her. When Eponine knocks the soup spoon away for the twelfth time, Cosette hisses out, “I could have left you to die, you know!”

“Maybe you should have!” Eponine screams the words back at her, cheeks bright with fever and emotion. “I didn’t go there to live. I went there because otherwise… otherwise…”

“Otherwise what?” Cosette throws her hands in the air. “I don’t understand you.”

“I know that.” Eponine’s voice drops to a low growl, and her eyes refuse to meet Cosette’s.

Cosette forces herself to draw a deep breath. To reach out and gently set her hand atop Eponine’s, waiting until Eponine looks at her to say anything further. “I would like to. Please. If you would explain.”

“I…” Eponine shakes her head, and then promptly breaks into tears.

Eponine wanted to die.

She doesn’t say it in as many words, but she doesn’t need to. Cosette has buried her memories of the Thenardier’s house as deep as she can, but sometimes the knowledge of what was done to her—of what she was told to be grateful for—seeps back into both her conscious and unconscious mind.

How much worse must it be for Eponine, whose current life seems to be one continuous string of disappointment and frustration?

“You are safe here.” Cosette squeezes Eponine’s hand. “For as long as you need and you want, you are safe.”

“We’re women in a world where men aren’t even safe.” Eponine keeps her hand in Cosette’s, though. “What future can I have?”

“A future with me.” Cosette pulls Eponine’s hand to her chest. “I swear it. For so long as I draw breath, you will be safe.”

Eponine shakes her head, laughing. The laugh turns into a cough, and Eponine pitches forward, into Cosette’s arms.

It’s the first time they kiss. It’s more an accident than an actual kiss, their lips brushing tentatively as Cosette struggles to keep Eponine from ending up on the floor.

The kisses that follow can’t be dismissed as easily, and the emotions that they bring to Cosette’s chest… well.

Cosette has never been very good at lying to herself, and today would be a bad day to start.

***

“You should have let me die.” Javert stares up from his mattress, his eyes dark pits in the lantern light.

“I couldn’t. That’s not who I am.” Valjean sets the loaf of bread next to Javert’s hand.

Javert looks away. “I don’t understand who you are.”

“Just a man, Javert. Just a man who did his best, and broke, and put the pieces back together, and broke again…” Valjean sighs, allowing himself to lean heavily against the wall of this rented little room.

When he finally lowers his eyes, Javert is staring at him again. “I have not been a good person, Jean Valjean. I think I have been a very bad person, actually. And I don’t know if it’s even worth trying to be a good person, because society is even crueler to them than it is to people like me. You should have just let me stay in the water.”

“It is a coward’s way out.” The words come out harsher than Valjean intended, and he tries to temper them. “Do you think there haven’t been days I wanted to die? Days when I felt the world was too immense and too terrible to ever manage? But here I am.”

“Here you are.” Javert continues to stare at him for a long, long time.

When finally he reaches for the bread, Valjean sighs in relief.

When a short time later a fever-warm hand slips into Valjean’s, he freezes for just a moment before gently squeezing the questing fingers.

The world can be a terrible and cruel place, but beauty and kindness live in unexpected moments, and perhaps that will be enough to keep the both of them going.

Three days later Valjean moves Javert into his own room, the better to keep an eye on the recovering man and ensure he doesn’t try anything they’ll both regret.

If there ends up being a lot of late-night hand-holding, a lot of touching and being touched… well, sometimes physical contact is the best way to reassure oneself that you’re alive and worthy of continuing to be so.

***

Cosette waits until they’ve had dinner, her father picking at his food as he frowns down at his large, scarred hands. When she surmises that he’s eaten all he will deign to, Cosette shifts her chair so that it’s close to her father’s and reaches out to put a hand atop his. “Papa, can I talk to you about something?”

“Always.” Her father smiles at her, just like usual. He still stares past her sometimes, towards whatever has been causing him trouble, but he tries to focus on her.

He always tries to give her what she needs, even if he isn’t always good at recognizing what that is.

“Papa, I’ve met… a woman.” Cosette swallows, her heart fluttering up into the base of her throat and pounding there, making it hard to speak.

Her father nods, his eyes crinkling with curiosity.

Cosette coughs. “A very beautiful woman.”

The curiosity doesn’t change.

“A woman whose life I have found inextricably twined with mine.” There, that sounds suitably romantic.

But is apparently not nearly direct enough, because her father pats the back of her hand. “It is good that you’re making strong bonds of friendship. Those will carry you forward when you have a household of your own with Marius.”

Well, there’s nothing else for it then. “Father, I kissed her.”

Her father blinks, and the confusion gives way to bemusement but not fear or disgust. Not yet, at least.

“Not a greeting kiss. A proper kiss. With—” Cosette finds that even if she wants to she can’t bring herself to describe anything more about the kisses. “Actually many proper kisses. And I shall probably do so again.” Cosette swallows. “Father, she’s… she’s absolutely wonderful. And I think I love her.”

Understanding rushes into his eyes like water into a pot, and her father raises his hands to cover his face. “Father, forgive me. I have not only sinned, I’ve brought sin into the house, and allowed it to touch this precious flower of yours.”

Cosette expected her father to take the news hard, but this seems a bit excessive. Putting her arms about his shoulders, Cosette hugs him tight. “Papa, it’s not like that.”

“It is. Oh, you don’t understand. I’ve been so careful… but not about the proper things.” Drawing in a deep breath, her father stands. “Come, Cosette. I’ve something to show you.”

The something turns out to be someone. The man sleeps on a simple mattress, his head and ribs swathed in bandages.

“Papa…” Cosette looks at him questioningly.

“This is Javert. He’s haunted me my whole life. I thought…” Her father sighs, closing the door so they don’t wake the sleeping man. “I thought saving his would perhaps fix things between us, but then… I didn’t mean to kiss him, you see. It was an accident.”

Cosette feels a smile tug at her lips. “So was the first time I kissed Eponine.”

“But it’s not right. I know that.” Her father steps forward, taking her hands. “Surely you do, too?”

Shaking her head vigorously, Cosette leads her father to where the family Bible rests. “I do not know that. Didn’t Peter say to love each other dearly, because lover covers over a multitude of sins?”

“Well, yes.” Her father frowns, clearly trying to place the passage. “That was about fraternal love, though. Or, well… platonic love. A sin cannot be redemption for a sin.”

“Love must be sincere. Hate what is evil; cling to what is good. There’s another saint for you, saying that love is good, is a counterpoint to evil.” Granted, Cosette heard from other girls in the convent all sorts of giggling about how Paul likely would have preferred everyone lack a physical body or the ability to have sex period, but the words are still pretty.

“Cosette…” Her father studies her with a mixture of hope and distrust.

“Then how about John? You know, the words of God proper. ‘Let us love one another, for love comes from God.’ I’ve saved a life, Father. And so have you.” Cosette squeezes her father’s hands with all her strength. “I can recite for you every passage, and I tell you not once does God condemn what we’re doing. Love is a good thing, Father, and anyone who says it isn’t is twisting words.”

Father frowns. “If all the priests say it is a sin…”

“You and I both know priests are quite capable of being wrong. Jesus never once spoke of this type of love, Papa. Never once. All he told us to do was love our neighbor, cherish them, protect them… and that’s what we’ve both done. If this love helps us to save lives, it cannot be terrible.”

Her father still looks unconvinced, and Cosette raises his hands to her cheeks. “Papa, please. Let’s both of us take this chance to be happy.”

Finally the ghost of a smile crosses his face, and though he sighs again his eyes are lighter. “I will trust you on this, my angel.”

Cosette hugs her father tight.

She isn’t an angel. She knows that deep in her bones. She is just one small human, as frail and flawed and damaged as the rest of them.

But she has known emptiness. She has known hunger and loneliness.

And she knows better than to give up what is good when she finds it, because there is never any guarantee the opportunity will come again.

If she has to help her father seize this opportunity with both hands, well… she’s done harder things in her life, and hopefully it will see them both through to a better, brighter future.