Title: let me do the dishes in our kitchen sink
Work ID: 39019290
Author: mariuscourf
Rating: Teen And Up Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Canon Era, Post-Seine, Fluff, Domestic, marius pontmercy pontmercy-ing all over the place, no beta we die like valjean's will to run from the law once the law moves in and starts dating him
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Valjean was used to living alone, nearly.Then came Javert.

Work text:


Valjean was used to living alone, nearly.



Awake at six in the morning. Spend his mornings reading, usually books borrowed from a spinster neighbor who kept insisting Valjean really ought to stop by her reading circle sometime, and could he provide libations too? Stroll through Luxembourg at half past noon, taking his time criss-crossing across the streets of Paris. Dropping a franc or two in the proximity of men and women sitting barefoot on the street, careful to save them the trouble of asking, and– alright, also to save him from the awkward situation of having to explain to an inspector that no, he was not 

soliciting, 

he was just lending a hand to one in need– no, not 

that

 sort of hand– really officer, this is all a misunderstanding… (Valjean learned that he could, in fact, still out-sprint the police. Which is a good skill to have.)



“I don’t need your 

pity

,” someone scoffed at him.



He knew that voice.



When Javert hadn’t turned up to arrest him after that fateful night, Valjean had assumed something happened and he was gone for good. Never would he have imagined this: Javert, still very much alive, nearly asleep in a patch of dead grass.



“Excuse me monsieur, I must have dropped something–”



Javert bolted straight up. “You.”



“We’ve got to stop running into each other like this.”



“We’re not running into each other,” said Javert, scowling. “You’ve tracked me down, intent on seeing me at my lowest, before you take your final revenge.”



“I walk this way every day, and not once have I seen you out here.”



“Scouting the location, eh? It’s absurd to think that 

I

 was the former inspector.”



“Former?”



“You ruined me,” said with what Valjean assumed was Javert’s attempt at a look meant to take him down, although without the prison’s guard uniform he really just looked like a sick pet.



“I apologize, although I’m really not fully sure what for.”



“I quit my job.”



Valjean paused. “It’s my understanding that police inspectors don’t retire until they have reached a certain age, I had no idea you were quite up there in years.”



“I am not up there in years. Especially, say, compared to you.”



Valjean sighed. “Why are you sleeping in the park, Javert?”



“I have no place to live.”



“Move in with me.” The words escaped his lips before Valjean had a chance to even think.



“I assure you, Valjean, I have no such inclination towards–”



“Don’t be preposterous. I have an extra bedroom.”



“Your daughter’s.”



“Ever since she ran away with that nitwit.”



“

Ran away

? I seem to recall you crying at her wedding.”



“And I seem to recall you not being invited.”



“Marius Pontmercy and I have a long history.”



“A history longer than his tailcoat, I’m sure.”



“What are you talking about, his wedding tailcoat was very ill-fitting– 

ah

.”



“So it’s decided. You’ll stay with me.” Really, what was he doing?



“I’m doing this as a courtesy to you.”



“A courtesy?”



“I’ve never extended a former convict the dignity of accepting an invitation before.”



“Of which I’m sure there have been many.”



“You haven’t the faintest idea of what my social calendar looks like.”



“Well, I wouldn’t want to keep you from anything,” Valjean said. “When you’re ready, I’m at–”



“55 Rue Plumet. I know.”



Valjean shouldn’t have been surprised that Javert remembered. Still.







He didn’t think Javert would ever show up.



A week passed: one uncomfortable dinner with Cosette and Marius, three books– two of which featured oddly racy stories involving former nuns rediscovering not-so-polite society; Valjean could only pray that Cosette never got her hands on them or her years in the convent would be vastly reframed. A few days of debating if it would be worth it to attempt making wine at home, because he really ought to have a hobby that didn’t involve doting on his married daughter. And then, on one dark and stormy night: a knock on his front door.



He didn’t get many visitors. Cosette dropped by unannounced often, but she had a key. It could be his ninny of a son-in-law alone, although Valjean suspected that Marius was too afraid to visit by himself.



“Javert,” he said, opening the door.



“One night. I’m only staying for one night,” Javert snarled. “Not in the manner of which I’m sure you’re used to hearing that."



Valjean ignored the comment. “I’m heating up some soup, would you like me to set a place at the table?”



“I would not 

like

 you to do anything.”



“There is no shame in asking for help, Javert.”



“Is that why you resorted to petty theft all those years ago?”



Javert wasn’t even in the doorway yet, and it was already shaping up to be a long night.



“As you said, it was all those years ago. Another lifetime.”



“In another lifetime, I would have tracked you down long ago and had you arrested by now.”



“It is not too late.”



“That part of my life is behind me,” said Javert with all the confidence of someone who is still definitely fixated on it, which is to say, none.



“I’m setting another place at the dinner table, whether or not you join is your decision. Cosette’s old room is down that hall, there is a bath to the right.”



Javert huffed as he walked inside. “I implore you to stop picturing me in a bath.”



“I most assure you, I would do no such–”



Javert was gone before Valjean could finish his sentence.


 


They ate in stiff silence.



“The soup recipe was Fauchelevent’s,” Valjean said. 



No response.



“Would you like to borrow a book?”



Nothing.



“I apologize for how ill-fitting my clothing is on you.”



A huff of acknowledgement, at least. Valjean had left his smallest shirt and trousers on Cosette’s old bed for Javert to change into after his bath, but the former inspector was still swimming in them.



And then, even more silence.



“I never once thought I would thanking a convict for food.”



Finally. “Was that a thank you?”



“Don’t make me repeat it.”



Despite himself, Valjean smiled.







Valjean was used to living alone, definitely. And now he missed it.



It’s not that Javert took up more space than Cosette had, per se. But Valjean loved Cosette, which made annoying habits all the more manageable– although he was glad he could now walk around his house without tripping over one of her dresses in the hallway.



It had taken a good while for him to get used to all the creaking sounds made by an old house– no, the sound of a door opening isn’t Cosette returning, or a burglar, just the wind. Except the wind typically didn’t reach his bedroom, and his it was only his rickety closet door that made that particular sound–



Oh right, he had a permanent houseguest now. A permanent houseguest prone to snooping, as if Valjean had any literal skeletons hiding in his closets. The only remnants of a pre-Cosette time were his candlesticks. (Somewhere, he most likely still had a stack of love letters Marius had sent Cosette in the weeks leading up to their marriage. Should Javert need a laugh, Valjean would have to pull them out.)



Valjean had left a book on his nightstand, and now seemed like as good a time as any to get some reading done. The fact that he might catch Javert had nothing to do with his eagerness. He hummed as he strolled through the ajar bedroom door (it was closed when he left for his daily stroll, was it not?), pretending not to notice the loud scrambling in the corner of the room. 



Minutes later, Valjean was situated in bed with his book– a story of a woman selling her body on the streets of Paris, plucked out of the gutter to live with a wealthy political figure. (Valjean took issues with the factual accuracy of the novel– there were a lot less body oils and sensual massages involved his experience living with a former prostitute, but he suspected a chaste and friendly relationship wouldn’t sell books.) How long would Javert stay in hiding? Because creative liberties aside, Valjean could lie reading all night. 



Hours passed, the prostitute and political figure had a happily ever after, and either Valjean had misjudged the situation and it really 

was

 just an odd quirk of the wind, or– oh, there Javert was, tumbling onto Valjean’s floor.



“Pleasure running into you here,” Valjean said with a smirk.



“Valjean.”



“What brings you to sit in my closet for three hours?”



“Your bedchambers appeared more comfortable; I simply wanted to test out that hypothesis.”



“Was Cosette’s throw pillow collection not enough for you?”



“Everything in that godforsaken room is a different shade of pink.”



“I apologize, I thought you would be secure enough in your masculinity to handle a pop of color.”



“I assure you, I am more than secure in my masculinity.” Javert stepped up from the floor, dusting off his pants as if nothing odd had happened.



Valjean wasn’t sure what was going on. “So do my bedchambers live up to your expectations?”



“Well, I have not yet had the chance to test out your bed.”



“You can sleep here tonight,” said Valjean. “As you’ve noticed, I have nothing to hide.”



“I can’t banish you to your daughter’s room.”



“The couch is more than adequate for me.”



“Valjean–”



“Less you forget, I’ve had worse.”



Valjean could sleep anywhere– not that he ever let himself sleep in strange situations, but he still 

could

.



“This is absurd,” Javert said.



“You’re right. There is more than enough space for the both of us.”



Javert began to redden. “Excuse me, I need to go– write a letter to a friend.”



“Pardon me, I did not realize you had friends with whom you corresponded.”



“Goodbye.”



Javert scurried out so quickly, Valjean was unsure if he would ever return to the house at all.







Against all the odds, they settled into a routine, sitting in front of the fireplace after dinner– Valjean with his books, Javert scowling while he pretended to read. The two of them passing around dressed-up insults. Javert started working his way through Fauchelevent’s recipe box, to Valjean’s amazement. The piles of Cosette’s old pillows slowly migrating over to Valjean’s bed.



“I haven’t seen you out on walks much lately,” Valjean’s neighbor said, on a now-more-rare occasion of Valjean strolling to Luxembourg alone.



“You’ve been looking?”



“That silver fox has been over an awful lot lately.”



“He, err, lives with me.”



“Monsieur Ultime Fauchelevant!” The neighbor gasped. “Bring him to book club next week.”



“I have yet to attend one of these meetings myself.”



“Bring him anyway,” she winked, and continued on with her day.


 


Valjean had not intended for the two of them to share his room, but: Cosette’s bedroom really was no place for a grown man. It wasn’t even a place for Cosette anymore, as a grown woman, and Valjean only wanted to cry a little at that fact.



“It is your turn to shut the lights,” Javert mumbled.



“Ah, but it is you who left the candle across the room.”



Javert groaned. “I cannot get up. I’m asleep.”



Valjean shook his head, but got out of bed to blow out the light anyway. When he returned to bed, settling into a tangle of limbs with Javert, the former inspector’s eyes were shut.



“Good night,” Valjean whispered, and if he kissed Javert’s forehead, well, that was just a reflex from years of tucking Cosette into bed.







If Marius Pontmercy seemed baffled to see the former inspector at Valjean’s, he did not show it. Then again, Pontmercy had an expression of bafflement at everything, it was quite possible that Valjean simply did not register it anymore. “Are you pleased to see your former partner in crime?”



“There was no crime involved,” Javert corrected.



“So much so that even Jondrette was innocent, after all I seem to recall the two of you failing to convict–”



“No crime involved on 

my

 end.”



“Just crime 

in

 your end,” Valjean said, and Javert’s face flushed red. For once, Valjean was pleased with his son-in-law’s complete obliviousness to well, everything.



“Papa!” Cosette dropped her groom’s hand and rushed forward to hug Valjean. “And– err, I don’t believe we have met,” she said, curtsying at Javert.



“Inspector Javert?” Marius tilted his head. Perhaps he had not recognized the man after all.



“Simply Javert.”



“From the wedding!” Cosette exclaimed, and turned to Pontmercy. “He was the man standing in the back of the church.”



“Oh yes!” Pontmercy agreed. “Neither of us could place you, and I feared you were the man responsible for Papa’s fleeing so many times.”



Valjean tried not to wince when Pontmercy called him Papa. He was not successful.



“How dreadful that man would have been to crash our wedding,” Cosette agreed.



“How dreadful indeed,” said Javert. Valjean stifled back a chuckle.



Family dinner was no more awkward than any dinner attended by Marius Pontmercy. For that, Valjean was thankful.


 


Valjean was used to living with Javert, certainly. Even when they bickered constantly–  Valjean did have to end up attending his neighbor’s literature gatherings just to get a moment away at times. And even when Marius Pontmercy would visit with more frequency, to visit his “old police friend,” which made Cosette so happy that Valjean couldn’t deny it. Company was nice, sometimes.



“If you were a woman, we would be in a common law marriage by now,” Valjean remarked one night in bed.



“Good thing we’re not, as it stands you don’t have any legal protections for when I leave you.”



“So if you care about my legal protections, you will not leave.”



Javert raised an eyebrow. “I’ve never cared about your legal protections, I’m not going to start now.”



Valjean smiled, and leaned over to kiss him. “Keep telling yourself that.”
