Title: Les Mis Watches The Movie
Work ID: 39058188
Author: MoonlightMagic
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Cosette Fauchelevent/Marius Pontmercy/Éponine Thénardier, Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Characters watching Les Miserables, Reaction, Enjolras & Éponine Thénardier Friendship, Awesome Éponine (Les Misérables), Enjolras & Cosette Fauchelevent Friendship, Bisexual Éponine Thénardier
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

Summary:
Jean Valjean, Javert, Eponine, Enjolras, Gavroche and Cosette awake in a strange room and are told they will see the past and the future.

Work text:

Jean Valjean awoke with a start. He looked around, his eyes searching for his child. When he saw Cosette beside him, seated on a chair, asleep, he sighed in relief. He noticed other children around his daughter’s age, as well as a small boy, seated in chairs near him before spotting Javert, who stared back at him.

 

Jean Valjean stood to his feet and Javert raised his hands, “I won’t attack you.” He paused, “Not here, at least.”

 

Jean Valjean was unconvinced, “Why not?”

 

“Because I told him not to.” A voice from the front of the room made him snap his head in their direction. A young woman stood, staring straight back at him, “I have very important things to show you lot.” 

 

The woman snapped her fingers and, as if on cue, the others in the room jerked away with a collective gasp. They all looked around, confused. The boys jumped up from their seats. The black-haired girl gripped the little boy’s hand and reached for one of the other boys.

 

“Marius!” She exclaimed, clearly relieved, “Where are we?”

 

One boy, Marius presumably, shook his head. Jean Valjean noticed his daughter and him staring at each other.

 

The young woman in the front cleared her throat and they all looked towards her, “I brought you here to show you something very important. First, though, introduce yourselves.”

 

The last boy stepped forward, “Why should we listen to you?”

 

She raised an eyebrow, “I’m the only one who can let you out.”

 

His jaw clenched, but he backed down, “Enjolras.”

 

“I’m Marius Pontmercy.” The boy in question looked towards Cosette, who smiled.

 

“I’m Cosette.”

 

The black-haired girl stands straight at that and stares at her for a moment, “Eponine.”

 

“I’m Gavroche!” The little boy shouted with pride. Eponine gave him a look and he stuck his tongue out at her.

 

“I’m Monsieur Fauchelevent.” Jean Valjean announced and Javert narrowed his eyes.

 

“And I’m Javert.”

 

Enjolras narrowed his eyes, “Will you tell us why we’re here now?”

The woman smiled, “I’ll be showing you the past and your future.”

 

She disappeared before they could say anything in response.