Title: the ties that bind
Work ID: 39399288
Author: Ias
Rating: Explicit
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Sexual Roleplay, Under-negotiated Kink, Rough Sex, Sexual Fantasy, Established Relationship, Bondage, Clothed Sex, Martingale, Relationship Negotiation, Dark Fantasy, Post-Seine
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Javert confesses a fantasy. Valjean does his best to oblige.

Work text:

The ropes dig into Javert’s wrists, cinched cruelly behind his back. The knots will hold; he knows this because he felt the strength with which they were yanked into tightness, with a jerk so firm it caused his entire body to sway. He’d asked Valjean to re-tie them twice before he was satisfied. Now he knows that the only way he will be released is by a will other than his own.

Valjean stands before him. This time, there is no knife in his hands; he wears a white shirt and trousers rather than the stained uniform of a Royal Guardsman. In the humble confines of Valjean’s bedroom he should look quite at ease, relaxed as he has been in the months since he and Javert finally made their peace. Instead his eyes are troubled, his hands wringing before him as he regards the ropes which cinch tight against Javert’s clothing.

“What now?” Valjean says. His voice is hoarse. 

Javert grits his teeth against the hot heave of irritation his lungs nearly expel. “You shouldn’t ask me that.” 

“Would you rather I stand here in silence?”

“No, I would rather--” Javert bites off the end of his sentence, painfully aware of how sharp his voice is, the fact that its edge has been ground brittle by need and shame. “I would rather,” he says again, levelly this time, “that you do what you would have done, back then.”

“But I wouldn’t have,” Valjean argues, helpless. “Javert, surely--surely you know I would never have done that.”

“Yes, Jean, yes, I know that.” Javert licks his lips slowly. “But I am asking you to, now, as if you would have.” 

Valjean wavers. He looks ready to argue--Javert resigns himself to that. They have already done so, when Javert first haltingly presented the idea; Valjean’s brow furrowed, his eyes sparking with confusion and hurt. For Javert to ask this brutal thing of him was in itself an act of brutality. 

“You wish for me to hurt you?” Valjean had said, baffled. 

Javert could have hedged; could have said  Not in reality,  or perhaps  not very much--instead, he had said, “I cannot explain it.” 


“Then help me understand.” 



“Valjean, I–I cannot.” 


And so it had gone, again and again. Many times Javert has regretted speaking it at all–regretted that he could not be content with the gentle touches they have delighted in for so long. Of course Valjean could never enjoy this; would offer it to Javert out of obligation alone.

But now, Valjean’s eyes slide lower, to the place where the ropes dig into Javert’s groin, parting like a river around the straining bulge of his trousers. Javert’s breaths come in short, beastial pants; he cannot even bring himself even to be ashamed, to call a halt when they have already come so far. The ropes have restrained that in him as well; he is nothing but Valjean’s, to do with what he wishes. 

Valjean steps forward, his hand reaching for the rope which stretches from Javert’s neck to the fork of his legs. He takes the rough cord in a grip which cannot be denied. Javert staggers, legs weak with discomfort and want; but Valjean merely holds him still, the ropes pulled so taut they sing in Javert’s veins. 

And then Valjean yanks him forward as he might lead a stubborn beast, pulling him inevitably towards the bed. 

“Wait, wait,” Javert gasps, and immediately Valjean stops, begins to pull back-- “Not there,” Javert says, before Valjean can so much as release the rope. He licks his lips, and swallows hard. “Against the fireplace.”

After a moment Valjean must understand, for Javert feels himself tugged over to the fireplace which has not been lit in months, its straight column of mortared brick raised from the wall and disappearing into the ceiling. Javert hears his breath loud in his ears as he’s pressed up against its side, and he lets his cheek rest on the rough surface so he can close his eyes and remember. The ache of stiff muscles as he staggered into the alley where he thought he would die; Valjean’s hands, roughly spinning him around, his face shoved against the coarse brick so hard it abraded his cheek. Fingers fumbling at him. 

For just a moment, in the haze of exhaustion and hunger and death, he’d leapt to unspeakable assumptions--and the surge of desperate need which had awakened at the thought of Valjean taking him, bound against the alley wall, had nearly made his knees give out. 

Now they threaten to buckle anew, as he closes his eyes against the grate of brickwork on his cheek. It is easier than he feared it would be, to pretend. The slow breath he sucks in through his nose smells of clean wood floors and the bitterness of tea--it smells of home. But if he breathes through his mouth, he can imagine gunpowder and blood. Can conjure the alley around him as if he stands there now. 

Valjean’s hand remains at the nape of his neck, holding him still. Javert shifts slightly, testing his bonds, and at once the grip bears down on him with a punishing strength, hard enough that his cheekbone and chin grind against the brick until its texture is surely imprinted on them. He cannot prevent the helpless little noise from slipping past his lips; at that, he hears Valjean’s own breath catch.

Valjean holds him pinned as surely as a butterfly to a piece of cork as his other fingers trail over the chafed skin of his wrists. They follow the taut cord of the rope like a maestro caressing the strings; down to the cleft of his ass where the ropes bite even deeper. The fingers slip between the two parallel bonds; they press against him through his clothes as they have on nights when Javert has fucked himself on Valjean’s fingers until his head swam on the verge of a faint. Now their probing is rough with the fabric of his trousers, and the dull pain of the ropes which split him.

Javert groans without restraint and feels the hand at his nape tighten in response. At once the fingers against his trousers are gone; he has but a moment to mourn their absence before a terrible, perfect weight and heat is pressing against his back. 

At once it is Valjean as Javert has not seen him before; Valjean as he might have been in Toulon, with rough hands that move Javert where he wants him. Yet it is still the man he knows--the man he loves, and who loves him. At any moment Javert could call halt, and Valjean would without hesitation. But Javert will not. 

Valjean grinds against him, pressing the bulge in Javert’s trousers harder against the brick. Javert whimpers, and Valjean does not stop. Would Javert have permitted this then? Welcomed it? Of course not--just as Valjean would never have perpetrated such an act. But suspended in the safety of love and distance, Javert can imagine what it would be like to be so wholly in Valjean’s power--for Valjean to take what he wishes without hesitation, selfish,  wanting , so different from the man who handles him with such diligent care that Javert occasionally has difficulty believing that Valjean truly wants him at all. 

But not now. Now Valjean takes him hard, the rigid, clothed length of his cock shoving against rope and fabric. Javert is nothing but an object for his pleasure, forced to take what Valjean gives him. He is dizzy, he is in pain, he is so close to coming that he could weep. The noises which escape him certainly resemble sobs, peppered with pleas and Valjean’s name. And then a hand creeps over his neck, up his chin, and Valjean’s rough and calloused fingers push into his mouth as if to gag him, and the pleasure of Javert’s release comes over him like a fire through tinder, searing him and unmaking him until there is nothing of him left but exhausted, helpless pleasure. 

For a while he can only breathe, held up by Valjean’s weight at his back alone; his legs would surely collapse beneath him if Valjean were to pull back even slightly. He does not. Valjean’s breathing is more ragged than Javert’s own, for all that he is motionless--it occurs to Javert then that Valjean is still hard. 

Disappointment sinks into Javert’s chest through the pinkish haze of pleasure. Surely as soon as Javert has found his feet Valjean will untie his bounds; perhaps he will permit Javert to unbutton his trousers and stroke Valjean to completion, once he has regained his composure and control. No more wild, desperate want. No more feeling of being wanted.

But then Valjean’s hands settle on Javert’s hips, and the man’s brow presses to the crook of Javert’s neck as if hiding his face in shame. “Javert,” Valjean says, and his hands tighten ever so slightly. “May I…?”

“God, yes,” Javert groans, and it seems there is pleasure to be wrung from his spent body yet as Valjean begins to rock into him once more, desperate, careless, his breaths high and ragged in Javert’s ear. The sensitivity of his body paired with the ropes and the bricks is too much; Javert arches back against Valjean’s body with a groan that is now equal parts pain. Solid arms slide around his stomach, holding him fast against the pumping of Valjean’s hips. “God in Heaven,” Javert blasphemes again, his eyes squeezing shut, overwhelmed; and then Valjean is rigid against him, is choking out a long groan into his shoulder and going utterly slack.

Gracelessly they both stumble to the floor, the weight of Valjean against Javert’s back dragging him down; they land in a tangle of knees, breathing hard, Javert half in his lap and Valjean plastered to every inch of him. The ropes dig into Javert’s neck and groin, yet Valjean makes no immediate move to loosen them. Javert has never been particularly religious, but he may have to consider the merit of thanking God himself for that blessing. 

At last Valjean’s breathing begins to even, his hands growing less desperate where they grip Javert’s flesh. “Was that how you wished it?” Valjean asks, and Javert cannot repress a ragged laugh. Better. It was so much better. But all he can do is nod, and close his eyes against the kiss that blooms against the sweat of his neck. 

The moment his bonds are loosened he will turn and kiss Valjean properly. But for now he can only be held, and submit to the tender hunger which Valjean applies like benediction. 