Title: Every Valvert In A Nutshell
Work ID: 41144190
Author: SweetRays
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean, Javert & Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Satire, Crack, Crack Relationships, Hurt/Comfort, Implied/Referenced Suicide, Angst and Hurt/Comfort, bruh what even IS this, Normalize the relationship between Jean & Javier 🥺, Misspelling on purpose, do not take this seriously
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
No summary available

Work text:

Javert has a mental breakdown as usual, the usual questions race in his mind. OMG DO I LOVE VALEJAN?? 🥺🥺 IM I GAY?? 😳😳THIS CONVICT SET ME FREE SO I MUST BE IN LOVE WITH HIM BUT I DON'T HAVE THE MENTAL CAPACITY FOR THIS SO I HAVE TO KILL MYSELF 😭😭😭
and just like that, he jumps off of the bridge, making sure to do a double flip somersault cartwheel so he can break his entire ribcage, spine, and legs. The water drowns him and he drowns to death.
Little to Javert's knowledge, Jean has been watching the entire thing.
"JAVEY-BEAR NOOOOO 🥺🥺😭😭😭" Valjean cries as he watches the water make a big ass splash. Without a second thought, he jumps in to save Javier.
Jean's teeth chatter when he pulls Javert out of the water. He is already drowned so he gives CPR to save him.
Haver coughs up water and scouls at Valjean
"Cures u for saving me bitch." He yells 

 Later, Javert awakens in Valkeans howse. The maid Tousaint brings him bread and soup.
"It will help you feel better." Says the made. Javer hairsiyley drinks hisbbread and eats his soup. After he gets up to go and go to his own house, but a shooting pain in his spine, dick, and ribcage make him crumble like cookie on the floor.
"It's best you stay in bed." ToosSmall declares. "I'll call for vajeen." 

 Valjean comes in later with worry in his looks.
"I'm so glad you awakened I thought you would not awake ever again :( ! Where does it hurt?"
"Spine, leg, and rib." Jabert replies painfully.
VALEJAN begins bandaging his hurt and there is a lot of seckshual tension between the two becyase of the awkward situation. 

 Tow days later, the inspector is all better and Valjean has a confession for him.
"You know, Javert, everything I said at the barricade was true. I am love you very much and will you marry 🥺."
Jabert blushes and says "yes I love you Valjean too." 

Then they make out and then have sex where Jean is a top and Jer is bottom.

 

They wake up in the bed together. Javet notices something he hast noticed before. It makes him want to be emotional. Valkeans scars -pacifically the ones he had enflicted back in his prison guard days.
"I'm sorry I did that to you." He says to his husband.
"It's okay I forgive." He says to his husband 

 Conclusion chapter : 

The two lovers lie together under a blanket to watch the glittering starts tinkle in the sky. Rufus points out all the ones he can see are the Ryan's belt and Jean is like wow that's so cool I didn't know that 🥺