Title: Eavesdropping
Work ID: 41258751
Author: orphan_account
Rating: Mature
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Dubious Consent, Mildly Dubious Consent, but not really, dub con is only threatened, but there is a warning nonetheless, Explicit Sexual Content, Masturbation, fantasies, Sexual Fantasy, Period Typical Bigotry, Period-Typical Homophobia, Period-Typical Racism, Toulon Era
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Jean Valjean does his best to ignore his fellow inmates rambling, but one night he gives the bagnards an ear. He does not know if this is a good decision or not.

Work text:


Valjean's disdain for his fellow convicts was clear. The well-muscled and surly prisoner was not wont to interact, much less carry a conversation with the other filth covered beasts, and for good reason.


 


The men chained up with Valjean seemed to be especially vulgar and idiotic to Valjean. Not surprising for the fact that Jean le Cric was housed in the bagne of Toulon, but infuriating nonetheless. Where le Cric tried to mind his own business and wallow in his hatred for this fate, the convict's chainmates were all too happy to chat and shout about the guards, the convicts, and their own crimes for lack of a better pastime that wasn't back breaking labour. This was of course a common occurrence. Valjean had for the most part been able to ignore them, but the talk of whores, families, bastard guards and escape attempts had somehow worn him down to listen to the inmates when he had trouble sleeping.


 


That was how le Cric somehow ended up with his cock straining the grimy red fabric that scarcely covered him, as he could hear the convicts in the cell adjacent continue talk of one particular guard that held his interest.


 


As most things were wont to in the bagne, this did not start out innocent. 24601's neighbours simply ignored the convicts around them as they chattered about various topics, all unsavoury, because why would they heed propriety if they were to be seen as nothing but beasts regardless? The two bagnards somehow ended up conversing about their revenge if they ever managed to take part in a riot, or simply escape the infernal prison.


 


"I think Javert has it coming for him- that gitan deserves to be trussed up and used."


 


The infamous 'gypsy guard' was widely known, and hated, in the bagne of Toulon. The man never gave out punishment unjustly, but when he took hold of the lash there would be no reprieve or sympathy. Convicts of Toulon were broken under the lash and although the tall newcomer had not perhaps miscount strikes purposefully or taken sadistic satisfaction in punishment as other guards often did, his lash broke nonetheless. He had quickly driven out all thoughts of mercy upon his arrival, and the unfortunate scum of Toulon quickly took to hating the new guard. For how could even the beasts of the bagne be brought so low to become less than gypsy scum?


 


"The bastard is too tall to pretend he's a woman, besides it'd be well better to just stab him and leave him to bleed-"


 


"You have to admit that his height is put to good use, though. Have you seen them legs of his? the man has a nice ass. You dont even 
need
 to pretend he's some grisette-"


 


Valjean nearly growled in irritation. The renowned Jean le Cric could not truthfully say that he did not harbour similar fantasies, having certain muscled legs wrapped around him as he pistoned  into a tight heat, or perhaps tanned skin covered in sweat and flushed from exertion, maybe even the aforementioned buttocks spread before him, but the voice of the skinny old murderer Jacques making such claims was almost infuriating. To think that the formidable guard would be bent over for him or even his lean compatriot in the cell infuriated 24601.


 


However the prisoner's anger was overshadowed by, or perhaps fueled, his raging arousal at the thought of the dark skinned guard being put to use in a riot.


 


The thought of the young and lithe Javert somehow being taken prisoner by none other than le Cric himself was unreasonably desirable to the bagnard. The idea of the straight-backed and proud enforcer of the law being reduced to a cock hungry mess, begging for le Cric, or perhaps protection from his fellow prisoners. But no, the real Javert would not beg for le Crics protection. Perhaps the proud and youthful guard would have to be claimed forcefully. Yes, the idea of anyone but himself making use of the guard's vulnerability was perhaps more infuriating than Jacques' babbling (but that was besides the point). Javert was about a decade le Cric's junior, surely the young man's youth meant stamina and flexibility? There would be only one way to find out. 


 


Valjean finally took his arousal in hand to his fantasies, groaning at the contact to his long straining erection. He stroked almost violently at the thought of the young man's reactions, shuddering a breath at the stimulation.


 


"That bastard would probably scream good if you fucked him! what I'd give to have a knife up to that little queer's throat." raucous laughter followed this vulgar proclamation, but as much as Valjean would wish to be maddened by the convict's ideas, he was all-too busy fantasising about how Javert would sound at his mercy.


 


Thoughts of guards were dangerous, but it wasn't as if he did not notice the way the younger's gaze followed him as he laboured. He knew it was probably suspicion or a need to make sure he would not cause trouble, but the idea of the guard perhaps desiring the super human strength of le Cric was far too delicious to simply ignore. A sharp exhalation of breath escaped him as his wandering fingers brushed under the tip of his cock, the sensitive feeling paired with the idea of Javert 
desiring
 Valjean almost euphoric.


 


Valjean would take Javert into a cell alone, this was not an affair for his fellow convicts to witness. No, Valjean would have Javert all to himself. Perhaps the young guard would moan at the feeling of a wet tongue to his chest, tasting all of his bared skin. Yes, Jacques was right, the guard would make wonderful sounds under his ministrations. There was a place inside men, Valjean knew, if it were touched upon the boy would most likely come undone from that alone, the thought of not even needing to lay hand on his guard was too wonderful not to fixate on. Maybe he could even make him come several times over!


 


It didn't take long to climax at the thought of the guard's moans and various sounds he could produce, the convict spilling on his hand as he continued to stroke himself lazily through orgasm.


 


The convicts next to his cell were continuing to gossip about the long legged guard, but their chatter did not infuriate him as before, not with his post orgasm haze washing over him and allowing him to think not of the stench of the bagne, hundreds of disgusting men with fetid breath and lash scars, but instead of tanned skin and heated desire. These illusions of satiation would not last, but at least it lasted the infamous le Cric through nightfall before the next day of labour.
