Title: Softness of your skin
Work ID: 41280771
Author: hauntedd0llhous3 (orphan_account)
Rating: General Audiences
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Romani Javert, I dont write it but he just is, Body Positivity, slight body worship, Nothing explicit, just a drabble of Valjean loving Javert, Javert has large hands, Post-Seine, Javert Lives, Everybody Lives, no beta we die like men, no beta we die like Javert, please ignore my probable mistakes, I have not reread this
Language: English
Status: Completed
Chapters: 1/1

Summary:
Wherein Valjean gives our dearest inspector the love he deserves.

Work text:

If there was one way to describe Javert, soft would not be it.

No, Jean Valjean thought ruefully, his lover would certainly not be compared to anything soft. Nor would the straight backed inspector ever want to be called anything near the realm of soft. Javert was tall, bone sinew and muscle all packed into his lithe frame. There was a small amount of fat, perhaps on his thighs and arms, but the inspector's hips jutted out and his collarbones were far too defined to be complimented using soft and gentle words. Jean Valjean's inspector was no small man, either. He had broad shoulders and large hands, full of sharp angles and hard edges. A body riddled with bullet scars and gashes from knifes and all other assortments of weaponry, some faded and nearly old as the man himself (yet a decade younger than Valjean), some newer and more pronounced.

Despite all of this, the inspector seemed to melt under Jean Valjean, the low timbre of his voice seemed to impossibly soften, his limbs would go limp in satiation or blinding pleasure. In moments such as these, Jean Valjean could not think of any descriptor that could accurately portray his love more accurately than soft, perhaps even tender. 

The inspector's face was not gentle, kind or forgiving either. His visage was full of the sharp angles Valjean loved. His nose was prominent, his eyes sharp and merciless, he had wrinkles and high cheekbones and thick eyebrows, and yet somehow the face with the countenance of a wolf became gentler, softened under pleasure. Under love. Jean Valjean transformed this hunter through love and kindness, and Javert learned how to love this kind and loving older man in turn.