Title: Oh... I forgot about title...
Work ID: 41463000
Author: FffLMoo (Feara_Radiata)
Rating: Not Rated
Relationship: Javert/Jean Valjean
Additional Tags: Slow To Update, Alternate Universe - Knights of the Old Republic, Not a Crossover, No Beta
Language: English
Status: Updated
Chapters: 1/?

Summary:
Dark undertone is everyone hooks up, and there's a 'happy' ending. Also they die ‘cuz like that's what happens. Only sad sad pointless death. I should be able to avoid most explicit death, and just focus on happier times. Possibly. I’m not sure about probably. How to have no harm comes to anyone?

Work text:

Taris, a gleaming city planet, truly a beautify city... The further away from it you are from it. The ecumenopolis needs to rest on something, best if you don’t look at the something. Those iconic rounded buildings of the Upper city and pathway through the clouds that wrap the planet resting on a sophisticated working sector. The bustling Middle City, holds more than enough comfort and safety for a lifetime, but is the lesser of the Tarisian society. All of it resting on what one would expect. A Lower city where the stench of lawlessness almost out weighed that of impoverishment. A planet side wasteland locally called the Undercity. The vast expanses of long forgotten dead seas. Poisoned years ago and forgotten. If the Undercity isn’t deep enough for you there is always the sewers. Ah, the sewers. A mess like this needs strong foundations, and in good Tarisian taste where else to find them then the prisons.

 

The humming sensation stops, and the inside of the speeder darken further. Pain struck Jean’s eyes as the security doors opened letting in the light of the city. He squinted managing to make out a holo sign behind the figure in front of the opening. The sign flashed the characters semicolon right parenthesis at U.

“Out you go sentient 24601!” Shouted the figure.

“My name is Jean Valjean.” Jean persisted.

“I am Javert, now keep moving 24601! Into the processing center!”